KOLKATA: At a time when the Centre has taken a tough stance towards China, at least 25   are headed towards Bengal, eyeing a slice of its business pie. 

 By inviting the Chinese delegations, chief minister   has taken up yet another point to differ with prime minister Narendra Modi. The delegation, covering a wide range of industries, will be a major show-off point for Mamata, as many are likely to announce investment proposals.
 
 The delegation comprises two provinces of China — Jiangsu and Shaanxi — that are known for being industry intensive. 
 
 In case of Shaanxi, a large representation comes from the department of commerce and the foreign affairs office of the provincial government. They will also be coming for the summit, which has boosted the hope of investment.
 
 The Shaanxi province showed its interest in Bengal during a recent visit of the executive vice governor of the province, Yao Yinliang, on November 30. Chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee and Yao had a long discussion about the areas of co-operation and possible investment. 
 
  The state government has already received confirmations from big Shaanxi enterprises in the field of coal, chemicals, textiles and fruit and food processing like, Shaanxi Coal and Chemical Industry Group Co. Ltd, China Shaanxi Haihui Import and Export Co. Ltd, Baoji Changxin Cloth Co. Ltd, Shaanxi Haisheng Fresh Fruit Juice Co. Ltd and easy Click Worldwide Network Technology.
 
 The biggest names from Jiangsu in the field of manufacturing, construction, software, IT solutions and printing, also feature on the list of confirmations. The delegation from Jiangsu is also backed by the department of commerce of its provincial government. Names like Sinocalci Corporation, AsiaInfo Technologies (Nanjing), Jiangsu HopeRun Software Co. Ltd, Archermind Technology (Nanjing), Nanjing Fujitsu Nanda Software technology Co. Ltd will be present at the Summit.
 
 “While some delegates are arriving on Wednesday, the rest will be here by Thursday. The entire delegation will be present at the inauguration of the summit on January 20. Before that a large number of business to business meets have been lined up, the results of which they might announce at the summit,” said, Ma Zhanwu, consul general of China in Kolkata. 
 
 He added, this is just the beginning of co-operation that China had been looking for with Bengal. “The scope for development in Bengal is huge as the pace has been slower here. This has a lot of advantage, the biggest being, low cost of labour and government support,” Zhanwu added.
 
 
