NEW DELHI: Over 40 probables, including some very high-profile officers and potential dark horses, are up for the pick when the high-powered search committee comprising Prime Minister  , Chief Justice of India   and Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha   meets on Monday to decide on a fulltime Director for the   (CBI).
 
  The heavyweights in the list of 49 are: Delhi Police Commissioner Alok Kumar Verma, appointed by the NDA government last year; Maharashtra (a BJP-ruled state) Director General of Police Satish Mathur; and Rupak Kumar Dutta, the former No. 2 in the CBI who was dramatically moved to the Home Ministry as Special Secretary on the eve of the then Director Anil Sinha’s retirement. Dutta was widely tipped to replace Sinha, but his transfer was a prelude to the controversial appointment of Rakesh Asthana as interim director of the agency last December.
  
  Before heading Delhi Police, Verma was DG Prisons at Tihar Jail. Dutta, as per the list, is the most experienced CBI officer, having worked with the agency for over 200 months. The only remark against Dutta is a technical delay of a month in completing the paper work for asset declaration. Interestingly, the list also includes just-retired Intelligence Bureau Director Dineshwar Sharma. Apparently, he was a serving officer when the list was prepared.
  
  The list also has Archana Ramasundaram, the first lady officer to head the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Incidentally, there is a reference to a missing vigilance clearance against her. Another prominent name in the list is Indo-Tibetan Border Police Director General Krishna Chaudhary, who had earlier headed CBI’s Bihar wing. The current interim director of CBI, Rakesh Asthana, is not among the probables as he hasn’t yet acquired the prescribed experience for the post.
  
 The much-awaited meeting coincides with the government getting dragged into a legal case, challenging its decision to appoint an ad hoc CBI head in R Asthana without holding the meeting of the search committee. Also, this is the first search committee meeting for Chief Justice of India Khehar. The Modi government did not call the meeting during the interim period between Asthana’s appointment and the recent retirement of former CJI TS Thakur.
  
  Political and bureaucratic circles are keenly watching whether the search committee meeting — happening amid the raging politics over note recall and upcoming state polls — will choose a new CBI head via consensus or political divide and dissent. Among the sensitive cases currently being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation is the AugstaWestland VVIP chopper deal.
