MELBOURNE:   and   are sporting brothers. Davis Cup teammates, doubles duo and sometimes practice partners. The silk and strength of the sport. They've agreed and disagreed, snitched and snubbed. Played each other 21 times coming into the Australian Open semifinals.

 Federer, the older by four years at 35, didn't look too happy when Wawrinka walked off court to get his knee taped after the second set.
 
 The 17-time Major winner didn't hesitate to return the favour then at the end of the fourth set, leaving to attend to 'leg issues'. At the end of the three-hour contest they embraced at the net, much in the fashion they did the challenge of playing each other.
 
 “Stan went off court after the second set, so I thought people wouldn't be too mad at me if I took an injury time out, which I never do, as I've been having leg issues since the second round,” Federer said after pulling off a 7-5, 6-3, 1-6, 4-6, 6-3 win to make his sixth final at  , where he has won four titles.
 
 Federer said his opponent upped his level of play in the third set. “He relaxed a bit and I wasn't serving as well as I had been doing. I fought hard, but I couldn't stop the bleeding. I was playing tight, it was tricky. Then in the fifth set he gave me a cheap break and I turned it around.” In Sunday's final Federer will play the winner of the second semifinal between 14-time Grand Slam champion   and the red-hot Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov, scheduled for Friday.
 
 Everyone including Federer it seems is rooting for the dream final. “I'm Rafa's No.1 fan, he's an incredible competitor,” Federer said, while recounting their last meeting in Mallorca late last year when the Swiss was on 'one leg' and Nadal was battling an injured wrist.
 
 On Thursday, Federer was off to a quick start, putting on a great production of shot-making, using every corner of the court, drawing Wawrinka out of his comfort zone. He was crafty, calculating and quite the Grandmaster at work. That was not to say Wawrinka didn't have his chances, but Federer broke in the 12th game when his 31-year-old opponent erred on successive points on the backhand side. The second set went in similar fashion, Federer, trying to mix it up, playing different shots, varying length and pace, broke in the sixth game and then served out the set in the ninth game.
 
 Wawrinka who had his knee taped before the start of the third set, started swinging. The 31-year-old, riding on the strength of his returns had Federer down 0-40 in the fourth game before breaking him. He broke again in the sixth. He continued in similar vein in the fourth set, much to the obvious discomfort of the Federer box.
 
 Wawrinka had his chances in the third game of the decider. With the crowd right behind him, Federer turned it around breaking Wawrinka in the sixth game when he double-faulted. The arena broke into a deafening applause as the 17-time Major winner sealed his place in the final by holding serve in the ninth game.
 
