KOLKATA: Friday's death of a  , who had to be shifted from a premier private-sector hospital because “the family could not afford to meet the rising expenses“ of treatment, has brought to the fore almost every issue that chief minister   raised during her dressing-down to   barely 48 hours ago.

 Sanjay Roy died at SSKM Hospital early on Friday after spending eight days at   following an accident in Howrah last Thursday. His family alleged that the shift happened after 9 pm only after they cleared medical bills amounting to Rs 7.23 lakh; the cheques the family paid included four “paid against fixed deposits“.
 
 Apollo insisted that there was “no payment precondition whatsoever“ for allowing Roy to go. But heavyweight Trinamool politicians got into the “people-versushospital issue“, which has always existed but has occupied centre stage after Banerjee's widely publicised meeting with top hospital managements on Wednesday, forcing Apollo to state in the afternoon that it was “waiving the entire bill amount“.
 
 The ebb and flow of the week-long trauma since Roy was admitted to Apollo on February 16 with critical injuries to liver, lung and partial tear in kidney encapsulates all elements being talked about over healthcare -rising hospital bills and distrust among patient families, their desperation to continue with expensive treatment with whatever little they have, the efforts to shift a patient to a government facility, and finally the fireworks in the event of a death. Trinamool leader Madan Mitra added his dose of medicine to the day's proceedings, asking Apollo to shut down or refund the money.
 
 Apollo decided to refund the money but that did little to bury the debate over quality and cost of private healthcare. It gained a new proportion with Roy's family and the hospital giving contradictory views over the communications they had, prompting the state health department to seek a report from the hospital.
 
 The bone of contention remains over how Apollo behaved when Roy's kin wanted to shift him to SSKM. Apollo COO Joy Basu denied the charge that the hospital had asked for Roy's FD or the land deed as guarantee before releasing him when a payment of Rs 2.9 lakh was pending. “We didn't ask for any fixed deposit, land deed or ornaments.Instead, our employees denied taking them as guarantee. It is they who insisted that we keep the papers along with the cheque. We usually don't take cheques. But considering their case, we accepted the cheque on humanitarian grounds along with a promissory note,“ Basu said. Subham Mukherjee, Sanjay Roy's childhood friend, who had been in Apollo Hospitals all along, didn't buy the hospital's version. “The hospital wanted us to foot the bills before releasing the patient. They asked us to submit gold ornaments, property deeds and whatever assets we had that could serve as security. Else, they won't release the patient. It took us time to gather all these, which proved fatal for the patient,“ Mukherjee said.
 
 The other grey area is the line of treatment. Doctors on duty and members of the medical board had communicated with Roy's family from time to time, telling them he had a 45% predicted mortality rate in the next 28 days just hours before his release. Roy's wife Ruby complained that the CT scan done on February 18 was delayed by five hours. “I signed the risk bond at 2 pm while the scan was done at 7pm,“ she said.
 
 The delay and the lack of communication slowly led to a growing mistrust, for which the doctors may not have been responsible. His family also couldn't understand why Roy's health started deteriorating on February 18 and he had to be put on life support when doctors had told them after the scan that blood oozing out of the liver and lungs had been contained. “We were told that Sanjay was having breathing problems and had to be put on ventilation. They suspected an injury in the rib cage,“ a family member said.
 
 What pains the family most is the delay in shifting Roy to SSKM after they had arranged for a bed at 4 pm with the help of Trinamool MP  . “It took more than five hours to gather the money and complete the formalities.This was not expected from a hospital when we told them to let the patient go while we stay at the hospital for completing the formalities,“ said Mukherjee.
 
 Apollo has refuted the charge saying that Roy's family was in a dilemma over the transfer and informed the hospital at 7 pm. “We started preparations for releasing the patient immediately. He was on ventilation all through. Two doctors of the hospital accompanied the patient to SSKM on a hospital ambulance having transport ventilation. Our oxygen supply was used to then transfer the patient from the ambulance to the bed. Our doctors ensured that the ventilation rate in SSKM was in sync with what was being administered,“ said critical care head Suresh Ramasubban.
 
