In a city like Delhi, where a stray glimpse of a bra strap on public transport could be hazardous for a girl, you wouldn't expect   not even 20 years old to pull their pants down or display menstrual 'stains' in full public view. But that’s exactly what women in   theatre societies have been doing increasingly over the past few years. 'Bold' themes are now common in plays put up by girls in DU colleges. Earlier, boys might have had to worry less about taking up explicit roles, but now, girls in these societies aren’t shying away either, and are going all out to portray characters without any inhibitions – lesbians, transgenders, prostitutes, rape survivors… No topic, whether menstruation, child abuse or sexual assault, is taboo anymore.

 These theatre actresses tell us that the turning point for college theatre came after the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape. "After Nirbhaya, many societies showed rape and sexual assault in their plays, and that changed the scenario of DU theatre completely. After that, DU theatre started talking about uncomfortable issues," says Upragya Kashyap, president of Anubhuti, the dramatics society of Sri Venkateswara College. Even though topics like sexual harassment and politics had been taken up by theatre societies before that, the brutality of what was done to Nirbhaya changed the unspoken rules of how graphic it was 'okay' to be on stage. That made it impossible not to discuss the physicality of gendered suppression, and after that, no topic or character was off-limits, especially for DU’s female theatre society members.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Atmaja Swadia and Sakshi Choudhary in Sri Venkateswara College's play about same-sex relationships
 
 
 
 
 'In The First Chapter', a play by the theatre society of Shri Ram College of Commerce, Srishti Gautam, a first-year student, plays a child who is being sexually abused. In one of the scenes, her character pulls down her pants when someone offers her a chocolate. "I play a small girl who does not know that she is being sexually abused. She thinks that whenever someone gives her a chocolate, she is expected to take off her pants. When I do that scene, people are often shocked and say, 'How could she portray this character?' But when we take up a cause in a play, it is all about leaving an impact on the audience. Either do it with conviction or don’t do it at all," she says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Lakshya, the dramatics society of Kamala Nehru College, was almost disqualified from a recent stage play competition, because they had used words like 'bra' and 'panty' in their play, Sahira Ke Naam. "People have no issue with words like 'chaddi' and 'baniyan', but they have a big problem even with the mention of 'bra' and 'panty'. They think, 'Inhone yeh bol kaise diya?' We are just talking about pieces of feminine clothing. Being from a girls' college, we take up topics irrespective of what people might think, and we manage to show the reality through our plays," says Dilgrace Kaur Sahota, vice president of the society.
 
  
    (extreme left) depicts how menstruation is not a taboo subject anymore, Chaitali Pant (second from left) says it is no big deal playing a prostitute for a play
 
 
 
 
 
 
 'Anubhuti', the theatre society of Venky, opens their play 'A' with a scene showing three couples – two homosexual and one heterosexual. The scene has Atmaja Swadia, a first-year student, straddling Sakshi Choudhary, another society member. "The play is about same-sex relationships. Women can be attracted to other women and that is not anything to hide. But when we do that scene, people get quite uncomfortable," Atmaja says.
 
  Upragya, the president of the society, adds, "When professors of other colleges see our play, they say, 'It is too bold'. Some have even called up our college authorities to complain about it. But it is important to express these ideas. We use a placard in our play which reads, 'Sex is just a means to produce humans'. Once, while travelling in the Metro, we were carrying the placard, and a person just read the word 'sex' and asked us our 'rate'. The mentality about sex needs to change."
 
  In another scene, Atmaja copies Sunny Leone from a condom advertisement. Upragya says, "The audience gets very embarrassed in that scene. The idea is that people are okay with watching objectification of women on their TV screens, but get embarrassed about seeing it in front of their eyes. The idea is to make them uncomfortable, so that they think about it."
 
  
  Mariyam Sara from  's theatre society (BCCL)
 
 
 
 The theatre society of Maitreyi College, 'Abhivyakti', took up the taboos related to menstruation in its annual production, 'Daag-e-Daaman'. The play, written by Kuldeep Kunal, has Shikha Dimri, a second-year student, playing the central character. In the play’s poster, she is seen in the most 'unaccepted' form – she is bald and has a menstruation 'stain' on her clothes. "When I was first asked if I would go bald for the play, I couldn't even imagine doing it. But after I read the final script, I realized that the purpose of our play would not be achieved if I didn’t take this step. In this patriarchal society, a woman has to abide by certain set standards, and hair, unfortunately, is an important element in the list that we need to adhere to. After going bald, when people see me in the streets, they pause. I know they are thinking, ‘Why is she bald?’ But what they think doesn’t matter to me anymore," she Shikha. 
 
  
  Shikha Dimri of Maitreyi College went bald for the play 'Daag-e-Daaman', which talks about the societal guidelines that women have to adhere to (BCCL)
 
  Malvika Singh, the president of the society, adds, "Being a part of an all girls’ society, we have the advantage of understanding the minute details of the oppression that women face every day. So when it comes to fighting back against the unreasonable standards of this patriarchal society, we unite as one body of strong individuals, and justify the topics that we take up."
 
  
  The brutality of the Nirbhaya incident has been depicted in several college plays. The 2012 gang-rape was a turning point in DU theatre as far as uncomfortable topics were concerned
 
 
 
 
