AMRITSAR: With the protest following   student Harpreet Singh’s suicide showing no signs of abating, the   (KCGC) has decided to postpone the annual examination of graduate, postgraduate and MPhil courses. Harpreet had hung himself on Wednesday after being debarred from taking exam over  . His fellow students have been staging   right outside the college ever since. 

 The governing council’s decision will affect nearly 8,000 students. On Monday, college the management blamed the agitators and the district and police administration for failing to ensure congenial atmosphere to hold exams.
 
 Talking to newspersons, KCGC president Satayjit Singh Majithia said that they were forced to take the step as the whole campus has been cordoned off by the protesters with the staff having no access to their offices and records. He lamented that all the entry gates had been occupied by the protesting students and whole administration has come to the standstill.
 
 “The examination, which last about a month, were scheduled to start from May 1. They are now postponed indefinitely and the new dates would be announced soon,” he added
 
 He alleged that the entire student agitation was politically-motivated. “The people behind the protests are playing with the future of the students,” said Majithia.
 
 The agitated students, denied the allegations of the college governing council. They countered the office-bearers by saying that representatives of all political parties were coming to meet them.
 
 The students said suicide victim Harpreet Singh’s case was different from the others who were also debarred. Harpreet was targeted deliberately since he always took up issues of students’ welfare, which were largely against the college administration, they claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, Sikh body Dal Khalsa, in a press release, accused the KCGC of arrogance and badly mishandling the situation thereby ruining the careers of students. Dal Khalsa leaders said it was highly deplorable that students of the Khalsa College were holding a silent sit-in for the past six days but none from the management even tried to hold a dialogue with them.
 
 
