NAGPUR: The Supreme Court ban on liquor along highways has affected bars and restaurants on   and Amravati Road badly. Saturday night is the busiest day of the week for them, but TOI found that most of them had a lot of vacant tables as customers either did not turn up or went elsewhere. The restaurant owners and staffers are a dejected lot and wondering about the future.

 Abhay Khade, manager of Dwarka Bar and Restaurant on Wardha Road, said business was down by over 30%. “A large percentage of guests come to our place to have liquor with dinner. Many of them went away on learning that liquor was not available. Nowadays, all adults in many families have drinks. So, even such families did not turn up or went away. It was just like a dry day,” he told TOI.
 
 TOI saw that the stag section of the restaurant had only two patrons while the family section was almost half empty. A waiter said that on Saturday nights it was difficult to find a table unless you came early. “However, as you can see, business has been hit badly,” he added.
 
 Shekhar Sawarkar of Tandoor Restaurant, also located on Wardha Road, also said that the   had badly hit business. “It is down by 30 to 40%. Some of our regular customers were aware of the ban and did not turn up. Many others went away on learning that we won’t serve liquor. The ban is impractical since people will have liquor at establishments that are not on highways. Cases of drunken driving will not reduce,” he added.
 
 Apparently, not every watering hole was hit on Saturday night. Ashish Abraham, front office manager of  , said their restaurant business had witnessed regular footfalls as patrons were not aware of the ban. “It may be affected when the ban becomes common knowledge,” he added.
 
 The restaurants that do not serve liquor have not been affected much. A waiter of Pahalwan Da Dhaba said that the number of customers had not reduced since liquor is not served in the restaurant. “Many of our patrons come for dinner after having liquor. They usually have drinks in their cars or in some bar,” he added.
 
 However, many restaurants that do not serve liquor allow patrons to have it, if they bring it along. It is doubtful whether this practice can be curbed.
 
 Raja Khan, of Atmosphere Restaurant on Amravati Road, which does not serve liquor, however, said that his business had been hit. “Our customers used to have liquor in nearby bars and then come here for dinner. Now, this option is no longer available,” he added.
 
 If bar and restaurant owners are a dejected lot, so are their customers, who like to have a tipple before dinner. Akash Singh, a businessman, said that the SC ban was impractical as people would go elsewhere to have drinks. “Why punish those who drink moderately?” he said.
 
