ALLAHABAD: After marking their presence in the Maha Kumbh of Ujjain (Aprl-May 2016), Kinnar Akhara members are all set to visit the  , commencing in Allahabad from January 12. All the members of the akhara would take the holy dip at the Sangam on the most important bathing day of   on January 27.

 The visit of the members and office bearers of the akhara bears significance as the akhara (Hindu religious group) will be putting up its claim for recognition as the 14th akhara of the country.
 
 “We will reach Allahabad a few days before Mauni Amavasya. On this most auspicious bathing day, all the members of the akhara along with the office bearers will take the holy bath in the Triveni Sangam,” said Mahamandleshwar Laxmi Narayan  , founder of the  . 
 
 On the claim for recognition as the 14th akhara, Tripathi said, “My akhara was established on October 13, 2015 and we don’t want any recognition from anyone. Each one of us is free to practice his or her religion as Bhramha is in everyone. Religion is not the legacy of anybody as Aadi Shankracharya had established just four ‘madhs’ which gave birth to 13 akharas, which always try to dominate others,” he added.
 
 The governing body of the   has declined to recognise this akhara although it doesn’t have any objection to eunuchs coming to Magh Mela and taking the holy dip on all major bathing days. 
 
 The Akhara Parishad, the apex body of Hindu ascetic organisations, had declined a similar request for granting recognition to the newly-formed Kinnar Akhara during the Simhastha Kumbh held at Ujjain during April-May 2016. 
 
 “We respect eunuchs as they are in our traditions and they are welcom if they want to join any of the existing 13 akharas, but if they want a separate akhara for themselves, it is not acceptable.” said president of the all India Akhara parishad,  , while talking to TOI. 
 
 He further said that there is rich tradition of akharas and their making which has its root in Aadi Shankracharya and it’s not possible to allow any new member.
 
 
