PATNA: Work on expansion of the terminal building at Jayaprakash Narayan International  , Patna, is likely to commence from February next and the project would be completed in two years.

 According to the design prepared for the expanded terminal building, it would be a two-storied building equipped with six aerobridges. The departure lobby would be on the first floor and arrival lobby on the ground floor. Deliberations in this regard were held at the meeting of Patna airport advisory committee on Thursday. Patna Sahib MP   chaired the meeting. 
 
 “We showed the design of the new terminal building in the meeting and discussions were held on its various aspects. The MP-cum-ex-officio chairman of the advisory committee asked us to give some artistic touch to the new terminal building,” Patna airport director   said.
 
  ( ) recently roped in Singapore based firm Meinhardt (Singapore) Pte Ltd as master consultant for expansion of the terminal building. Sources said the expansion work would commence with development of three additional aprons in front of the state hangar. 
 
 AAI has already constructed temporary cabins adjacent to Bihar Flying Institute, in which maintenance equipment of state hangar would be kept. Two aprons are proposed to be developed adjacent to the Bihar Flying Institute for operation of the aircraft of the civil aviation directorate.
 
 “It would take us around six months to construct the new aprons, following which the state civil aviation directorate would hand over their hangar to us. Thereafter, the hangar would be demolished to pave way for expansion of the terminal building. Accordingly, we expect the expansion work to commence by February next year,” Lahauria said.
 
 As per the proposed plans, the first block of the new building would be developed over the existing location of the state hangar. After development of the new hangars, the existing state hangar would be demolished. Thereafter, the AAI would develop the first section of the new terminal building on that location.
 
 Once the first section of the new terminal building is ready, passenger operations would be shifted to it and the existing terminal building would be completely demolished. Finally, the AAI would commence construction of the remaining portions of the new terminal building.
 
 The extended terminal building would have parking bays for four aircraft, which would, in turn, facilitate night operations of flights from the city airport. 
 
 
