JAIPUR: For the last 11 days, the family of 40-year-old Rajendra Nath, a native of Sriganganagar who died from a heart attack in Chile in South America, has been trying their best to get his body flown back to India.

 With the help of Indian social workers from the United States and officials of the external affairs ministry, the family at last received an assurance that the body would reach New Delhi on Friday morning.
 
 But, the family’s hopes were dashed again on Thursday when the airlines concerned refused to take the body from Santiago in the absence of documents and no-objection certificate (NOC) required to transport the remains.
 
 Rajendra Nath, a native of Raghunath Puri in Sriganganagar district, was working as a consultant in a perfume manufacturing company for the last five years. He was under mental stress after his brother Shiv Nath, a farmer, died in his village on June 22.
 
 “He was crying continuously over the phone whenever we spoke to him. Later, we came to know from his colleagues that he died of a heart attack on June 26,” said Kuldeep, the nephew of the deceased, over the phone from New Delhi. He is in Delhi with other family members to expedite the process of transporting the body to India.
 
 After the death, the family faced a major challenge as they didn’t have the money required to bring the body back that came to Rs 13.70 lakh. “After the death of my uncle,  , a social activist based in the US, called us and assured that he would speak to the embassy and officials from the ministry of external affairs to expedite the process. We were also assured that we would not be charged a single penny and all the expenses would be met by the ministry,” said Kuldeep.
 
 On Wednesday evening, the family was told that the body would be flown to New Delhi on Friday in an Emirates flight. “But, on Thursday, we were told that some more paper formalities had to be completed to fly the body,” he added.
 
 When TOI spoke to Prem Bhandari, the social activist, on the developments so far, he said, “I came to know about the poor financial condition of family and requested  , secretary, ministry of external affairs, to utilize the Indian Community Welfare fund to pay for the expense to fly the body to India. They agreed to it. But I suspect there has been some delay in sending the no-objection certificate (NOC) either by the health officer,  , New Delhi, or by the Emirates airline. I will ensure that action is taken against whoever is responsible for the delay.”
 
 However, Dr Tarun Kumar, health officer, Indira Gandhi International Airport, said, “I have already emailed the required documents to Emirates to transport the body to New Delhi. The delay has not been caused by me.”
 
 
