CHANDIGARH: In yet another auction of artefacts belonging to Chandigarh, a total of six furniture items designed by world-famous architect Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 13 lakh at US-based auction house.

 Jeanneret had designed these furniture items for Panjab University (PU),   and   secretariat.
 
 Office table desk designed for the secretariat and administrative buildings fetched Rs 3.61 lakh. A low stool went for Rs 4.01 lakh. An armchair went for Rs 2 lakh, while a low lounge chair fetched Rs 3.21 lakh. Another low stool went for Rs 80,000.
 
 Since 2007, a large number of furniture items designed by Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier and his cousin Jeanneret have been auctioned in various auction houses in France, the US and England. Furniture items were purchased by foreign nationals at low prices and later auctioned them at higher price.
 
 On May 9, a total of six furniture items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 1.5 crore at Phillips, a London-based auction house, while on January 22, furniture items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 65.26 lakh at Rago Arts and Auction Centre, a New Jersey-based auction house.
 
 In September 10, 2016, a total of eight items designed by Jeanneret were sold for Rs 25 lakh at a New York-based auction house, while in June 10, 2016, as many as four heritage items, furniture designed Le Corbusier, were sold for Rs 1 crore at a New York-based auction house.
 
 City-based social activist Ajay Jagga has urged the administration for making efforts to stop the auctions and initiate a probe. Recently, Jagga had written to Prime Minister Office ( ), which had directed the Chandigarh police and UT urban development department to look into the matter.
 
 The administration had last week decided to seek a report of action initiated from directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) regarding smuggling of furniture.
 
 The DRI had written to the   government to initiate action in the matter of antique smuggling. The DRI had arrested a Delhi-based exporter on April 1 for allegedly helping in smuggling antiques. The administration will ask police to put up the status report of the FIRs registered in last two years, regarding theft of heritage and the DDR filed on the request of the CBI.
 
 
