Nagpur: Following mismanagement in entrance examination for state’s Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute ( ) on July 1, the institute has decided to conduct the test again on July 22.

 Institute’s director Rajesh Dhabre told TOI, “Operators in various centres did not follow the guidelines and that led to chaos.” 
 
 BARTI is an autonomous institute under state’s department of social justice and prepares backward caste candidates for civil services exams. Top 100 scorers in entrance test get enrolled in Delhi’s top UPSC exam coaching institute.
 
 Dhabre admitted problems. “We are aware students were put to inconvenience. They got their centres on the basis of their hometown and due to technical problems, the test was delayed at many centres,” he said.
 
 CET rules provided for negative marking for incorrect answers but many centres failed to implement the system, the students’ federation claimed. Dhabre said centre operators were not properly informed on the matter. “It is mainly because of confusion about negative marking that CET has to be held again,” he said.
 
 According to BARTI’s website, 6,784 students were set to appear for the CET this year. However, only about 3,500 appeared, informed Dhabre. The institute had emailed the examinees asking them whether a reexam should be conducted. “Based on their positive reply, we have decided to reconduct the exam,” he said.
 
 On July 6, Babasaheb Ambedkar National Student’s Federation had written to state’s minister of social justice Rajkumar Badole complaining about various issues. CET was announced on June 28 but later changed to July 1. It did not start on scheduled time of 11am. It started at different times in different places. Moreover, many aspirants were unable to get their hall tickets from BARTI’s portal, due to late announcement of exam.
 
 According to the students, even hall tickets were full of errors, including mistakes in names and centres. One examinee Dnyandeep Meshram selected Nagpur as exam centre as he lives here but was allotted Sakoli in Bhandara. He also said, the examination started late and there was no one to supervise it.
 
 Rashmi Ramteke, another examinee from Mumbai, complained of difficulty in filling forms online. She said a few days later, BARTI sent a notification saying forms submitted earlier would not be accepted and that I would have to re-submit same. “Some of my friends did not resubmit the form but still their names were listed on the website on June 28,” she said, “In my hall ticket, my name was mentioned as Ramteke Kumar Ramteke.”
 
 Ramteke also informed about irregularities in the commencement of the test. “My friend got a centre in Ghatkopar where the test started at 11.40am. At my centre in Panvel, it started after 12.30pm,” she said.
 
 
