KOCHI: Several   ( ) schools in the city are yet to implement the ordinance passed by the state government earlier this year making Malayalam compulsory across all schools.

  say that they do not have clear guidelines on how to implement the order. 
 
 Some schools suggest that they are waiting for Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) in the district to incorporate the policy into their existing school system. They said that they would implement a similar model.
 
 “Implementing this policy will bring about certain conflicts with the existing CBSE policy that offers two language subjects in classes IX and X. They have an option to choose their second language. Since it requires five to six hours of Malayalam class a week, implementing it will also require a major restructuring of time table and the time allocated to each subject. We have decided to implement the decision of KVs in the state,” said Fr Anthony M, principal of SH School.
 
 This is similar to the stance taken by the state education department when the Right to Education Act (RTE) stipulated a minimum age of six years for Class I admission. They said that they would switch to the minimum age when KVs controlled by the government of India switches over to the minimum age of six.
 
 “KVs will not implement compulsory teaching of regional language, especially with special reference to defence sector schools,” said Maya George, principal of KV, INS Dronacharya.
 
 She said that it would not be practical in defence sector schools as many students transfer to the school for a few years and then move to another state.
 
 “It’s an impractical approach. The child will be overburdened,” said George.
 
 T P M Ibrahim Khan, president of Kerala CBSE school management association, said that private schools also have a similar problem with students who have migrated to Kerala from different states.
 
 “We have written to the authorities concerned saying that we have no qualms about the subject being taught in class but it should not impact the academic progression of the child. We are yet to get a response in this regard,” he said.
 
 Deputy director of education (Ernakulam) C A Santosh said that the government has not appointed the department in charge of inspecting the implementation of the policy.
 
 He said: “The ordinance was expected to be implemented in all schools starting from this academic year but the department has not been tasked with listing the schools that are not following the ordinance.”
 
