Surat: The Congress councillors staged a unique protest in the   (SMC) general board meeting by donning mosquito nets to highlight the failure of the civic body and the ruling   in curbing the mosquito menace.

 All the Congress councillors attended the general board meeting on Thursday donning mosquito nets. 
 
 Congress members in the SMC have been protesting against the failure of the civic authorities in controlling the mosquito menace in the city, which has led to increase in the cases of vector-borne diseases including malaria and common fever. 
 
 They claimed that the health department of SMC was in the deep slumber when the entire city was under the threat of vector-borne diseases. The inspection drive of the insecticide officers have been questioned and even the improper fogging and spraying of insecticides was blamed by the councillors. 
 
 Congress councillor from Varachha, Ashok   said, “The entire city is in the grip of mosquitoes. Despite the high mercury levels in last few days, the mosquito population is still on the rise. Majority of the breeding spots are right in the downstream of Tapi river where the stagnant water and present of hyacinth has resulted in the serious multiplication of mosquito population.”
 
 Jirawala added, “The civic authorities have failed to control the mosquito problem. The insecticide wing of the SMC is doing nothing on ground. The fogging equipment are not working. This has increased the cases of fever and malaria across the city.”
 
 Another Congress councillor   said, “When we talk about smart city and clean city, civic body has added one more tag ‘mosquito city’. In the last five days, the SMC headquarters in Mughalsarai was fogged around 10 times to remove the mosquitoes. When the civic authorities are not safe, how can be the people of this city?”
 
 Praful Togadia, leader of opposition, said, “It’s all talk and no work in the civic body. All of them were in deep slumbers and it was when citizens started complaining, the officers woke up. Literally, we are living in a mosquito city.”
 
 
