Mumbai: Despite a recent   order reaffirming that areas around hospitals, educational institutions and courts stand designated as silence zones under   rules and need no specific declaration from the state to enjoy such a status, the BJP-led government has written to the Centre for a clarification on the matter. 

 The note to the   from Maharashtra's chief secretary Sumit Mullick focuses on "discrepancies" between Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 and the schedule listing out the details on the rules. A senior official said Mullick has urged the   secretary to seek amendments to clarify the powers vested with it to designate a specific stretch as a silence zone.
 
 Under the rules, areas not less than 100 metres around hospitals, educational institutes and courts may be declared as silence zones, while as per the schedule of the rules, a silence zone is an area not less than 100 metres around hospitals, schools, etc, which is designated as such by a competent authority.
 
 The debate is whether certain areas automatically constitute silence zones or would the state have latitude on the issue. "There is a contradiction between rules and the schedule there under. We feel it should be suitably amended,'' said the official.
 
 Incidentally, Maharashtra has repeatedly sought relaxations in noise rules for festival celebrations such as Ganesh Chaturthi. Clearly, it has a viewpoint which is at odds with the observations of the courts and the sentiments of a substantial section of urban residents. It had even filed a special leave petition before the Supreme Court for easing of curbs, but this was dismissed.
 
 Disposing of a PIL by activist Mahesh Bedekar, Justice A S Oka and A A Sayed had observed that areas around institutions need no specific declaration to enjoy protection from noise. But they added said if other similarly 'sensitive' areas are to be notified as silence zones, it would be necessary for the state to make a declaration in that behalf.
 
 "One of the contentions raised is that a silence zone has to be declared by the state government. In fact, this issue is already settled as can be seen from the orders of this court and the apex court,'' Justice Oka and Sayed had said.
 
 The issue of silence zones was recently raised at a meeting convened by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to discuss preparations for the ensuing Ganesh festival. When senior bureaucrats explained the legal position, CM directed them to approach the MoEF for amendments to the rules.
 
 
