MUMBAI: The extended wet spell accompanied by gusty winds caused   in localities not known to be flood-prone on Wednesday. Not just the usual low-lying areas of Khar and Kalina, even parts of   such as Dahisar, Marol and Bandra that rarely report waterlogging were submerged in knee-deep waters.

 Considering that few Mumbaikars ventured out, the BMC was able to clear the flooded stretches faster. It deployed around 35,000 staffers on the streets to tackle the situation. 
 
 Waterlogging was reported on Andheri-Kurla Road below Airport Road metro station at Marol, S V Road in Khar, and Nutan Nagar, St Paul’s Road and St Francis Road in Bandra. 
 
 A BMC official from Malad blamed “high intensity” rain in these parts for waterlogging. 
 
 Deputy municipal commissioner Suddhir Naik said since the high tide was expected to cross 4.5 metres on Wednesday afternoon, they were extra-cautious. “We activated our SOPs (standard operating procedures) immediately and all officials were asked to remain on the ground. We closely monitored the situation all through Tuesday night,” he said. Civic officials said after identifying the lapses following the deluge of August 29 that had led to avoidable trauma and tragedies, they had speeded up cleaning of drains and fixing pumping systems. 
 
 However, some areas such as Milan Subway, Linking Road, SV Road near Santa Cruz and parts of Andheri and Dahisar subway witnessed acute waterlogging. Bandra corporator Swapna Mhatre said as National College Road gets flooded “very quickly”, officials are working on improving the situation. “We worked through Tuesday night clearing drains of the garbage,” said Mhatre. 
 
 At Khar’s Jaybharat Society, drainage water was seen entering the water tank.
 
 Most subways in western suburbs went under water too. “The dewatering pump at Dahisar subway is of little use during a heavy downpour. This time, it was surprising that even though Dahisar river did not overflow, areas in the vicinity got water-logged,” said Shiv Sena corporator Tejasvee Ghosalkar.
 
 In south Mumbai, parts around the Cuffe Parade police station were submerged. Civic officials alleged that metro authorities had damaged the sewer lines and that they were working on rectifying it.
 
 
