PATNA: The Bihar CPI on Monday said the move to unite political parties opposed to the BJP-led NDA and bring them on one platform would begin in right earnest any time soon at the national and state levels to address the concerns of larger sections people arising from mass inconvenience caused by ‘notebandi’ and several other issues facing the country. 

 The state CPI disclosed this after the conclusion of the party’s one-day meet of the nine-member state secretariat. “Efforts would start soon to bring political parties opposed to PM   and note ban on one platform to reach out to widest range of people in the country,” said state CPI secretariat member Ram Babu Kumar.
 
 The CPI also qualified the possible future grouping as the “Left, democratic and secular alignment.” He said the issues other than note ban facing the people are “persistent real danger to the Constitution and democracy.”
 
 Although he did not mention it, the breakthrough to start the process of opposition unity afresh has been provided by the indications given by Uttar Pradesh CM   that he, along with the Samajawadi Party group that he leads, was favourably inclined towards an alliance with the Congress. “The Congress is there, but it should also be the part of the emerging new platform,” Ram Babu said.
 
 Incidentally, a few parties follow different lines on the note ban – like the JD (U) and its national chief CM Nitish Kumar support the note ban, while West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee favours withdrawal of demonetisation. In contrast, the Congress and RJD follow common line on the issue. 
 
 “Differences are there, but they are on minor issues. Otherwise, all the political parties concerned are agreed on the searing difficulties and inconvenience caused to people, apart from negative impact on the economy. Even the JD (U) thinks so. There is need to come on one platform,” Ram Babu said, adding that the talks in this regard would be initiated soon.
 
 Earlier, the state CPI secretariat members – the party’s Bihar secretary Satya Naryan Singh, Jabbar Alam, Rajendra Prasad Singh, Ram Naresh Pandey, Ram Babu Kumar, Chakradhar Prasad Singh and Ram Chandra Mahto – deliberated on the agitation programmes that the party would take up. The plans include dharna and processions from January 3 to 10, followed by candle marches on January 25 and the unfurling of national flag at the district and block party headquarters on January 26.
 
