JAIPUR: The   (JDA) has approved revising the area marked for   at  , which was reduced in the  .

 The decision was taken at the building planning committee (BPC) meeting, chaired by Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Vaibhav Galeriya. According to an official, the green corridor was planned between Todi Mod and the JDA region on either side of the national highway in the master plan. Now, the area between Harmara Mod and the JDA region, which is larger than the existing one, has been earmarked for the purpose.
 
 “In the 2011 master plan, the green corridor was proposed between Harmara Mod and the JDA region. However, it was reduced in the new master plan. Following high court’s directions, a decision has been taken to increase the green corridor area.”
 
 In its recent order, the Rajasthan High Court had ruled to maintain the sanctity of master development plans (MDPs) of cities and called for development projects to conform to land uses specified in the plan.
 
 In its order, the bench said that if the eco-sensitive zone/ecological zone/green area, specified in the MDP, has been established, no change should be made during the operative period of the plan.
 
 “In any case, change in land use of the green zone and the peripheral control belt will be as an exception to serve larger public interest, but in accordance with the procedure laid down, maintaining transparency and with assessment of environment impact,” the order said.
 
 This came as a big boost to the shrinking green cover in the JDA periphery. According to Master Plan 2025, it has been proposed to enhance per capita open space to 8.80 sqm for a population projected to grow to 6.5 million by 2025.
 
 Currently, only 11.3% of the city area is under green cover. This falls short of the mandatory 20% as per Master Plan 2025.
 
 The planning committee meeting also approved the draft of sector plan number 72. The JDA has prepared drafts for all 81 sectors. A major portion of the sector plan comes in the periphery of the Ring Road.
 
