LUCKNOW: BSP's meltdown to the point of an existential crisis powered BJP to sweep Uttar Pradesh, best evidenced by the drift of non-Jatav votes to the saffron fold.

 Over the last 15 years, Mayawati has commanded a vice-like grip over Dalits, a community that coalesced around the leadership of her own caste of Jatav.
 
 When BSP founder  's movement started gaining ascendancy, smaller Dalit castes -non-Jatavs -used to vote for BJP, evident in how Atal Bihari Vajpayee and   romped the Dalit turf. These communities -notably Pasis, Koris and Dhobis -had shown greater receptivity for the Hindutva message.
 
 But they all collapsed into what came to be known as the “BSP vote base“ as the party consolidated its appeal as a Dalit “self-respect“ platform -underlined by Kanshi Ram's assiduous efforts to trigger anti-upper caste hostility among non-Jatavs by “exposing“ how their glorious history like the kingdom of Lakhan Pasi was erased by “Manuvadis“. The process peaked in 2002. Mandate-2017 marks the unravelling of the consolidated Dalit bloc, with BJP successfully weaning away the non-Jatav communities from BSP. It has resulted from the propaganda that dominant Jatavs were cornering the affirmative action benefits at the cost of minor groups. The saffron gambit to to uch upon intra-Dalit fault-lines was bound to be potent under the “Modi message“ -an amorphous amalgamation of aspirations and Hindutva.
 
 Numbers suggest that BJP's targeting of non-Jatav votes carried the potential of being a game-changer. Jatavs form 56% of the Dalits of UP while Pasis form 16% and the other three big communities -Dhobi, Kori and Balmiki -compromise 15%.
 
 The saffron success on this front first came to light in 2014   polls when the party swept the state winning every segment outside Yadavs, Jatavs and Muslims.
 
 BJP's success in winning over a section of Dalits in the heartland state will win the party serious debating points since the Una flogging case and   suicide turned into national scandals and opposition painted BJP as anti-Dalit.
 
