CHANDIGARH: Punjab government had been denying appointment to those candidates who earned degrees by taking classes in study centres of universities established in other states. However, it seems the same rule doesn’t apply to everyone. The government ignored the above-mentioned condition while appointing late Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s grandson as deputy superintendent of police (DSP). He has a degree from Periyar University’s Delhi study centre. 

 In the cabinet meeting held on May 30, the council of ministers gave its nod to appoint Guriqbal, youngest grandson of  , as DSP on “compassionate grounds” since his grandfather was assassinated by terrorists on August 31, 2005. The government tweaked the rules in relaxing the upper age limit by eight months and seven days and issued an appointment letter to Guriqbal on June 7. The upper age limit for appointment of a DSP is 28 years. But the state government conveniently ignored the fact that Guriqbal has BCom degree through distance education from Periyar University in Salem (Tamil Nadu). However, the state government has denied appointment to 192 candidates, who were selected as clerks against the advertisement posted in 2013 since they had graduation degree from universities outside the state through distance education mode.
 
 Repeated calls and text messages sent to Guriqbal on his mobile remained unanswered.
 
 Guriqbal’s elder brother and Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu told TOI, “This degree is genuine and he had taken admission in the course only after checking credentials of the university.” He told that Guriqbal has already started training at   Phillaur.
 
 Additional chief secretary home affairs Nirmaljit Singh Kalsi, who had issued appointment letter to Guriqbal on June 7, refused to talk to TOI.
 
 As per the documents received under the RTI Act, Guriqbal cleared BCom in 2012 from Periyar University. The BCom degree mentions his ‘centre code 1385’, which happened to be the varsity’s study centre “MS Institute” in New Delhi.
 
 Whereas the   has issued guidelines from time to time, including on June 27, 2013, “no university, whether central, state, private or deemed, can offer its programmes through franchising arrangement with private coaching institutions even for the purpose of conducting courses through distance mode.”
 
 In the case of 192 selected clerks, who were denied appointment, minutes of the review meeting held on July 14, 2016 reads, “It is decided in the meeting that the degrees of (192) candidates is not as per UGC guidelines. As per Punjab government’s Punjab Private Universities Policy, 2010, private university can only have single campus and the university cannot affiliate any college or institution outside. University cannot start any offshore campus, off campus and study centre. Hence board’s decision (of denying appointment to 192 candidates) is justified.”
 
 The minutes of the meeting have been signed by Raji P Srivastava, then secretary personnel, special secretary higher education and secretary Punjab subordinate services selection board Kamal Kumar Garg. After the 192 candidates were denied appointment, they had moved the high court in 2014. The case is pending for decision.
 
 Documents received under the RTI Act reveal that Guriqbal completed his secondary school examination in 2004 from Stepping Stones School, Chandigarh. He received the   license from USA in 2007-08.
 
