PUNE: The   has directed the prosecution to place on   relating to   for deciding a revision petition by main accused and   chief Dhananjay Desai on February 1.

 Desai has challenged a Pune sessions court’s order of June 14, 2016 that rejected his plea for discharge from the case. He had then argued that he had no connection whatsoever with the murder. 
 
 Justice A M Badar of the high court said in an order on January 12, “As the revision petition is filed challenging the order rejecting application for discharge of the accused, the additional public prosecutor is directed to place on record the entire bunch of the chargesheet so as to enable the court to decide the revision petition finally without calling for record and proceedings.”
 
 The bench has also clubbed Desai’s bail plea for hearing with the revision petition on February 1. 
 
 So far, the court in Pune has twice rejected Desai’s bail plea, which were moved before and after the chargesheet was filed on August 28, 2014. Later, the high court bench of Justice Sadhana S Jadhav too rejected Desai’s bail plea on March 5, 2015.
 
 Referring to the revision petition, Desai’s lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar told TOI on Tuesday, “Our basic contention is that the case against Desai is based on an alleged inflammatory speech he is said to have delivered in March 2014 whereas the murder took place in June 2014. There is no link between the speech and the murder as the latter was a spontaneous crime. It is not even the prosecution’s case that Desai was present on the spot and there is no evidence to show that Desai was in contact with other accused at the time of the attack.”
 
 Additional sessions judge J T Utpat, while rejecting Desai’s bail and discharge pleas on June 14, 2016, had observed that previous rejection of Desai’s bail pleas on the grounds that there was a prima facie evidence against the accused, could not be overlooked. 
 
 The court then said, two witnesses have recorded statements narrating events that led to Shaikh’s murder. “Since there is prima facie evidence against the accused, he is not entitled to be discharge,” the court had observed. 
 
 Mohsin Shaikh, an IT manager with a private firm, was attacked by a mob of 20-odd people near Satav plot at Unnatinagar on June 2, 2014 while he was returning home with a friend after offering evening prayers. The attack was part of the violence in the Hadapsar area, which was triggered by an objectionable post on the social media
 
 In the probe that followed, the Hadapsar police arrested 21 suspects, including HRS chief Dhananjay Desai, who is facing charges of delivering an inflammatory public speech and instigating youngsters to commit violence
 
 While 14 accused have so far been granted bail by the high court, Desai continues to be lodged in the Yerawada jail ever since his arrest on June 10, 2014 
 
