GHAZIABAD: As many as 40-45 residents of   Society, a residential society in Indirapuram, held a protest against the street vendors of   by blocking the road from Gate No.3 of the society till   in Indirapuram.

 The residents protested by sloganeering against the vegetable and fruit vendors and asked the Indirapuram police force to vacate them as soon as possible. "We collected the residents to hold the protest early evening and then informed the Indirapuram police about it. We slowly took over the entire road to block the traffic, which is exactly what happens every time, every evening when these vendors of Bihari Market perch their carts for selling," said Omparaksh Nagar, a society resident.
 
 Bihari Market is a weekly market that operates from 6 in the evening till 11 pm at night, right adjacent to Shipra Krishna Vista Society and has been an issue of vital encroachment for a very long time.
 
 After the resident's repeated complaints to Deeoak Kumar, SSP, Ghaziabad, the vendors of Bihari Market were driven away by an organised police anti-encroachment drive early this week. The police had also done a barricading in that vendor market area to shoo away the encroachers. However, the residents complain that after vacating them, now these vegetable and fruit vendors have started accumulating, in a distributed fashion along the length of Swarnjayanti Road all over again.
 
 "We have been trying to chase them away for two days now and we will never let them arrange their markets here. The traffic snarls due to their existence has troubled us enough, but not anymore. This is an illegal, unauthorised market and we will not tolerate it anymore. We have to experience huge traffic jams from our back gate to Swarnjayanti Park and this is our step to remove it ," said Deepak Sethi, general secretary, RWA, Shipra Krishna Vista Society.
 
 Police said," Residents of Shipra Krishna Vista has earlier also filed various complaints regarding illegal operation of market on the main road. Hence, this step had to be taken and we have special orders to not allow any type of encroachment to happen anywhere in this area," said Pushpraj Kushwaha, sub-inspector, Ghaziabad Police. 
 
