NAGPUR: Last year, by this date,   of   X & XII along with   XII had already been declared. But assembly elections in   and civic polls across Maharashtra have put off the schedule for all boards by over a week. Sources in both the state education board as well as in national boards like CBSE and ICSE are saying that the last week of this month will see a slew of results being declared within days of each other. 

 A senior official with the state board said, “On May 25 we have a meeting at the HQ in Pune, so there’s a chance that an official date might be decided then. Results were expected late this year because of the municipal elections in Maharashtra. HSC results are likely to come between May 29 to June 2.” For SSC the wait will be longer with result coming only in the second week of June. 
 
 The   For The Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which conducts the ICSE (Std X) and   (Std XII) board exams is in fact way behind schedule if compared to its results date of last year. Both ICSE and ISC results were declared on May 6 itself on the back of a new technology which the Council (as the board is officially referred to) used in evaluation.  , chief executive & secy of the Council had credited Live Ink Character Recognition (LICR) technology by saying “it has helped us to be in this position”. LICR captures and digitizes marks entered on top of answersheets and instantly encrypts and transfers the data. It is stored directly in the Council’s cloud based servers immediately from the evaluation centres. This significantly reduces time required for compilation of results and the software automatically totals marks awarded by examiners. Already hounded by calls from various quarters about the delayed results, the Council has announced that it will declare the results date 48 hours in advance. Doing so will negate all chances of last minute panic by students, which used to happen in case of CBSE till 2015. 
 
 For CBSE too, no final dates have been declared for the results but sources say process is around seven to nine days behind its last year’s schedule. CBSE could declare its Std XII results as early as May 27, however the last day of the month seems to be more in line. As of now, CBSE Std X results are all set to get pushed to June first week.
 
