Panaji: Growing awareness about the benefits of tender coconut water has led to an increased demand for the green variety of the nut in the state, which has resulted in the tender coconut eating into the market share of the full-grown nut.  Farmers are plucking most of the produce at an early stage, allowing very few to reach maturity, creating a disparity in supply and demand of the matured nut, which also sees a health demand in the state.  About this trend, Rohan Joshi of the All Goa Farmer’s Sangh said “Tender coconuts fetch farmers more money Rs 12-20 per nut compared to a mature one that fetches Rs 4-10. Moreover, plucking the nut at the tender stage is agriculturally lucrative since it increases yield by 20-30%.” This has created a complex economic situation for coconut vendors. On the one hand, while shortage has resulted in rates of the matured nut being hiked, on the other, peeved customers, who believe that vendors are overpricing, are refusing to buy the fruit. The result: vedors’ livelihood has taken a hit. “With a steep rise in prices of mature coconuts, people no longer want to purchase the fruit from us assuming we are overpricing them for a profit,” said coconut seller Eknath Vaigankar. The regular retail rates for tender coconuts are Rs 30-40 per nut while that of a matured nut is Rs 6-8. The rates of the latter, however, have shot up to Rs 25-30 apiece in the past few months. Thus, as more and more citizens continue to snub the matured product, vendors like Vaigankar are left feeling at sea. “People have the alternative of buying commercially marketed desiccated coconut or coconut milk from supermarkets. How do small time vendors like us, whose livelihood depend entirely on mature coconuts, manage to earn our living ?” he added. Helpless in the face of the ongoing state of affairs, vendor Mehmood Ali has resorted to the alternative of coconut by-products to sustain his livelihood. “I have faced 50% loss in business over the past two months. I am left with sacks of mature coconuts which will rot if not sold. I, therefore, break them open, dry the kernel, and extract coconut oil at home,” he said. “But this is only a temporary solution. If the current trend continues, we may have to shut shop soon.”