MYSURU: Former minister and state   vice-president   on Saturday targeted the CM   accusing him of failure to govern the state even as he trained his guns on the JD(S) saying it entered into an agreement with the   during the Nanjangud by-poll helping it to win. 

  The Siddaramaiah government has failed the people of the state, which should be conveyed to the voters in the three segments of the city, Prasad said after inaugurating the meeting of the executive of the City BJP. He spoke about the importance of winning the three segments in the city-Chamaraja, Krishnaraja and Narasimharaja-to achieve Mission 150 set by the PM Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah. He reminded the leaders that the three segments were strongholds of the party but went to Congress during 2013 polls owing to division of votes due to the presence of KJP candidates. It is not the case anymore and we should ensure that we get back the three segments in 2018 polls, he stated. 
 
  The meeting comes a week after the meeting of the state executive in the city, which discussed about various issues including Mission 150. The meeting of the city executive desisted from discussing about the leaders who should be fielded in the assembly polls. There are divisions among the party leaders about the candidates for the three segments, which pose a challenge to the state and central leaders. 
 
  According to Prasad, after the change of guard with former Union minister K C Venugopal assigned the role of AICC in-charge of Karnataka, Siddaramaiah has changed his stance. Unlike earlier when he used to assert that he will lead the party in the 2018 polls, Siddaramaiah has said that it will be decided by the Congress high command. This is because Venugopal is assertive unlike Digvijaya Singh. When Singh was the Karnataka in-charge, the Congress high command didn't get the ground reality in Karnataka. 
 
  He said a weak Siddaramaiah will help the party in its goal to get three assembly segments of the city and pointed at his performance in Zilla and taluk Panchayat polls and MCC. He has failed to win in local polls in Varuna segment and now that he is weak, it will help us, he stated.
 
  
 
 
  Speaking about the Nanjangud by-poll, which he lost to Congress' Kalale Keshavamurthy last month, he said the CM and his ministers lured the voters with money. But it is not have impact on the 2018 poll outcome, he stated. Prasad accused the JD(S) supermo H D Deve Gowda and state JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy of striking a deal with the Congress in the by-election. Though the party had got 40,000 votes in 2013 polls, it didn't enter the fray in the by-poll. 
 
  This is in stark contract with their electoral strategy when JD(S) fielded candidates at Devadurga in Raichur and Hebballa in Bengaluru city even when it had no base there, he stated. 
 
  Gowda and Kumaraswamy have no gratitude even when they became the PM and CM due to support from Congress and BJP respective ly, he said. 
 
 
