Nagpur: In clear violation of Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s order, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has been carrying out construction work on Residency Road flyover late into the night. Since last few days, residents of Byramji Town are facing sleepless nights due to use of excavators and other construction machinery till 2-3 am. “The noise is deafening, it is 10 times worse than the crackers during Diwali. For two days, heavy machinery was being used till 3am,” said resident Vinod Nangia, who stays opposite Poonam Chambers. The Y-shaped flyover, which will start from Liberty Talkies Square, will end with one arm at Mental Hospital Square, and the other arm on Katol Road beyond Manganese Ore of India Limited (Moil) office. As many senior citizens live in the area, the noise pollution due to construction work is affecting their health. “My 90-year-old mother is having sleepless nights,” Nangia added. Another resident pointed out that despite a police post nearby, the late-night construction work was not stopped. “We tried calling the helpline number but got no response,” he said. In 2015, HC took suo motu cognisance of TOI’s report on noise pollution due to construction activities, and prohibited all kinds of construction and renovation activities from 8pm to 8am in the city. NHAI project director NL Yeotkar said construction work has to be done in the night to avoid traffic chaos during the day. “Still, we will find some alternative to curb noise pollution in the night,” he added. Last year, the court had exempted Mahametro from the ban but directed the agency to cause minimal noise pollution by erecting 9-15 feet high barricades at construction sites. At that time, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), one of the respondents in the case, had informed the court that if concretization of 84 major roads is not permitted in night hours, it would lead to a chaotic situation. HC had then allowed concretization work in night but said that the work of digging roads, for which heavy vibrators are used, should be done only during day hours. Residents of Byramji Town have demanded that a similar rule prohibiting use of heavy machinery should be implemented in this case too. Pooja Panchmatiya, who had spearheaded the earlier petition, points out another violation of the HC order. “The court had directed the commissioner of police to start a helpline for citizens to report noise pollution. But cops do not take note of such complaints,” she said.