The sensex may be inching closer to its lifetime high. But most stocks on the benchmark index are trading below their previous highs. Only one out of every three scrips on the sensex has either touched a yearly high recently or is quoting close to those levels.

 Index heavyweight   (RIL) hit its 52-week high on April 6, while engineering behemoth Larsen and Toubro (L&T) breached the mark during Friday's trading. Leading mortgage lender   touched its yearly high on April 3, while passenger vehicles major Maruti   crossed the level on April 5.
 
 Despite most sensex stocks remaining lower, a bunch of heavyweights is driving the index close to all-time highs. Ten stocks in the sensex -including heavyweights such as HDFC Bank, RIL, ITC, SBI and L&T, which have a combined weightage of 47.14% on the index, are pushing the benchmark to higher levels, data showed.
 
 Pharma and information technology (IT) scrips have remained laggards. Heavyweights from these sectors have seen their share prices rule 20% lower than their peaks hit between June and August last year.
 
 Shares of leading IT companies haven't gained much traction in the current rally.
 
 Infosys, which is seeing a war of words between the management and founder promoter over pay hikes, has seen the biggest fall from the yearly peak among sensex constituents in the IT pack. The   scrip has fallen over 23% since hitting its 52-week high of Rs 1,278 on June 3 last year. Its cross-city rival  's stock is more than 15% down from peak levels while the   scrip is over 11% lower than its yearly high.
 
 Shares of top pharmaceutical companies have fared poorly as well. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is still down 28% from the peak levels breached in July last year. Lupin and   are trading over 22% and 19% lower than their highs.
 
  is, however, only 5.3% short of the mark. The laggards in the sensex, however, do not carry a huge weightage. For instance, the pharma pack has only 6.3% weightage, while the three IT firms that form part of the index have an aggregate weightage of 16.24%.
 
