BHOPAL: Soon senior citizens in the state capital will have a reason to smile as the health department has decided to come up with a geriatric ward at   hospital, Bhopal’s largest tertiary care hospital.

 Senior citizens have been among the most vulnerable and neglected section of society for long. Backed by Union government funding, Gandhi Medical College (GMC) associated hospital would develop an exclusive OPD and ward for geriatric patients.
 
 Geriatric care management or elderly care management, is not limited to medical treatment. It is a specialised process of planning and coordinating care of the senior citizens. “Care of elderly not only requires medical treatment but taking care of their mental impairment through counseling. The overall aim is to improve their health and thus quality of life,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr Deepak Maravi.
 
 A 30-bed geriatric medicine wing would be established at Hamidia hospital. It is expected to be functional in about three months. Hospital officials indicate that with shifting of emergency wing to new building, there would be sufficient space for the new infrastructure.
 
 “Specialized teams would be devoted for medical care of elderly. Number of nurses would also be increased,” he added.
 
  of the Elderly (NPHCE) in coordination with state geriatric cell would follow the operational guidelines. 8% to 10% of elderly population is estimated to be bedridden. Bhopal is one of the 80 districts in the country chosen for the programme.
 
 In the first phase the focus of the hospital would be on expansion of treatment facilities for chronic, terminal and degenerative diseases.
 
 Centre would have a geriatric clinic (specialized OPD for the elderly), in-patient care and dedicated beds for the elderly patients in the various specialties viz. surgery, orthopedics, psychiatry, urology, ophthalmology, neurology among others.
 
 A dedicated laboratory investigation required for elderly with a special sample collection centre in the OPD block. Tertiary health care will also attend to cases referred from district hospitals and below.
 
 GFX
 
 ELDERLYSTATS
 
 80% Sr citizens are in the rural areas, thus making service
 
 delivery a challenge,
 
 Increase in the number of the older-old (people above 80 years)
 
 30% of the elderly are below poverty line
 
 Elderly care management
 
 Conducting care-planning assessments
 
 Screening, arranging, and monitoring in-home help and other services
 
 24x7 crisis intervention
 
 Need for rehabilitation facility or nursing home
 
 Counselling and support
 
 *************
 
 SIDE STORY
 
 Geriatrics yet to gain popularity
 
 Bhopal: Geriatrics, namely medical care of the old, is yet to get increased popularity importance. According to estimates 7.9% of MP’s population is above 60. It is projected to rise to 19% by 2050. Of this bracket, NSSO describes 48.6% then as dependent on others. According to one-fourth elderly are considered as ill, by government estimates.
 
 Traditional systems for the care of acute cases are still being used. “The above 65-year-olds were a fast growing segment, having multiplied many times over the decade,” said physician Dr Rajiv Singh. As per estimates less than 10% get care in private nursing homes, he added.
 
 Various government schemes announced in the recent past for specialised geriatrics care have failed to take off. In 2012, in a bid to improve maternal and child health, MAMTA II behaviour change campaign was flagged off. It also included special clinics for geriatric patients. However, after the scheme there has not much change reported in district hospitals.
 
 According to department of public health and family welfare 314 Mamta Raths were flagged off across the state, besides some 60,000 villages will have Mamta corners. A diagnosis software to tract nutrition of infants and mother was also launched. In MP percentage of geriatric women is a high 7.4%. Men account for about 6.9% of the population above 60.
 
 Indian council of medical research (ICMR) run Bhopal memorial hospital and research centre (BMHRC) renamed its mini-units as outreach units. It was the first up gradation of the 8 units outside BMHRC campus spread in gas affected areas. It was announced that up gradation of mini units would benefit elderly patients too. BHMRC has proposed to provide cardiac, eye and geriatric care management in three units.
 
