KOLHAPUR: Academicians and education activists have lauded government’s decision to install complaint boxes at schools across the state from the upcoming academic year. According to experts, the decision will help students, parents and even the teaching and non-teaching staff to register issues faced by them.

 On May 5, the state government’s school education and sports department had issued a notification stating that schools are in dire need of having a complaint box on their premises. Hence, all schools of all medium and affiliated boards should install a complaint box at the earliest.
 
 Uttam Gurav, principal,  , in the city said, “This is a welcome decision from the state government. It will surely bring transparency in the system and will be helpful to get to know the issues faced by the staff and students. The complaints can range in many areas from teaching to the infrastructure-related issues and from salary-related issues to harassment. Hence, the complaint boxes may play a key role in getting to know about the issues.”
 
 Sattappa  , a city based education activist, said the initiative will give hope to the stakeholders with the fact that all complaints had to be opened before the school officials along with parents and student representative.
 
 According to Mohite, the notification said that ideally police should be present when the box is opened on the last working day of every week, but it has given scope for exception, as long as the problems related to manpower are there, which should not be looked as loophole. The complaints should be addressed transparently to have the actual use of the box.
 
 Another principal, requesting anonymity, said the notification instructs all complaints to be recorded in a log book, when the box is opened, which is a good point, so as to take the initiative seriously by schools.
 
 The notification also added the name of complainant shall have to be kept confidential. The department has also directed officials to ensure no problem is faced by the complainant in future. 
 
