NOIDA: Part rural, part urban, Ghaziabad is UP’s largest Lok Sabha constituency population-wise. In 2014, Gen V K Singh swatted past the opposition benefiting, like most other BJP candidates, from the Modi wave. In each of its five assembly segments — Ghaziabad, Loni, Sahibabad, Muradnagar and Dholana, Singh led handsomely.

 The scenario was radically different in the 2012  . The BSP had triumphed in four of the assembly seats. Dholana claimed by the SP was the exception. The BJP finished second only in Loni and Ghaziabad. The BSP victories were remarkable since they came in the middle of an SP tsunami that fetched Mulayam Singh Yadav’s party 224 out of 403 seats.
 
 The two contrasting results bared a harsh truth: Two and a half years can be a long time in electoral politics. Travelling through the five assembly seats voting on Saturday, one gathers that the electorate appears ready to alter its preferences again. The Jats overwhelmingly voted BJP in 2014. There seems to be an undeniable shift. A more tactical voting by the community is likely. Almost all Muslims that TOI spoke with said they were favourably inclined towards SP but a decent number among them maintained they would vote BSP, especially when the candidate belongs to their community.
 
 Also,   seems to have adversely affected the BJP brand (read candidates’ chances) more than Modi’s individual credibility. And at the moment, Akhilesh Yadav is UP’s politician No 1 though that doesn’t automatically translate into votes for his party. In Loni, an area with a sizeable number of Muslims, Jats and Gurjars, there’s some support for Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) strongman Madan Bhaiya, former MLA and gurjar. The Muslims seem divided in their support for Zakir Ali, sitting BSP MLA, and the SP’s Rashid Malik. Meat shop owner Furqan Ansari reeled out the slogan: Loni ki janta ne pukara hai / haathi-Zakir dobara hai (Loni’s voters want a Zakir-BSP re-run). But a few km away at Lalbagh colony, mechanic Mohd Taquir says: “We’ll vote for the cycle, irrespective who the candidate is.”
 
 In 2012, Muradnagar witnessed one of UP’s tightest contests. The top four candidates were separated by less than 8,000 votes. The constituency has a substantial number of Jat and Muslim voters. Some Jats were seen campaigning for realtor Sudhan Kumar Rawat, a Jat contesting on a BSP ticket, outside Bhikkanpur village though RLD too has fielded a Jat. Rawat contested the 2014 LS seat on an SP ticket in Ghaziabad and got a paltry 4.5% votes. “The BJP didn’t give enough tickets to members of our community. We don’t have any quota in jobs either,” complains retired soldier Ombir Singh.
 
 Farmer Joginder Singh had a slogan: “Saanp lot gaya chhati pe / mohur lagao haathi pe” which roughly means: Vote BSP even if you feel bad about it. In the same village, Tejpal Singh Prajapati, a kumhar who sells milk for a living, said about 100-odd families of fellow caste members were considering voting for the BSP. Car driver Nayeemuddin, a dhobi, said he would vote BSP like his brethren in the village. “We are supporters of Wahab Chaudhary who was the BSP MLA here in 2012,” he said. This time, Wahab is contesting from Modinagar, again on a BSP ticket.
 
 In urban Sahibabad area, teeming with high-rises and malls, flower seller Rajesh Saini and his family of five will vote for Congress’s Amarpal Sharma, a Brahmin. His mother is a Modi fan though. Amarpal switched sides; He won on a BSP ticket in 2012. The Congress had finished third then but now in alliance with SP, which had come fourth, hopes to do better. “We like him because he is accessible and always ready to help,” says Rajesh. Dinesh Kumar Gupta, a baniya, rents generators to factories in the adjacent industrial area for a living. “My business is near zero after notebandi,” he says. He’ll vote for Amarpal, he says.
 
 Rickshawpuller Baijanth Mandal is a beneficiary of the Centre’s policy of providing subsidised gas cyclinders to the underclass. But he won’t vote for the BJP due to notebandi. “My customers are still few,” he says. However, trader Jagbir Singh Tyagi says all 12 votes in his family will go to the BJP. “Dal is cheap now. Vegetables are cheaper. What more do you want,” he asks.
 
 
