MUMBAI:  , the chairman of the All India Football Federation's Technical Committee (TC), feels it's time to look for a foreign coach for the country's under-17 team who has some Indian experience and also understands a bit of Indian culture.

 The German coach of the young Indian team for the last two years,   Adam, had controversially parted ways recently after the boys complained to   about ill-treatment and physical abuse. The team is preparing for the Under-17 World Cup which will be held across six Indian cities in October.
 
 "With the World Cup just seven months away , there is very little time to gamble. Since we have learnt from the Nicolai episode about our mentality and the problems faced by the players, we would like someone with Indian experience, who knows a little bit about Indian culture. We can't even think of getting  , it is another matter that we can't afford him," Bhutia told TOI. It was Bhutia who tried to mediate between the boys and Nicolai but his attempt wasn't successful.
 
 The former India skipper feels cultural differences between the Indian boys and the German coach led to the controversy. "The reason for the misunderstanding was more due to different cultural and social backgrounds. Most of these under-17 boys are from rural backgrounds with no international exposure. In fact, Nicolai was their first foreign coach. The coach was professional and being a German, he was a taskmaster. When you spend two years with a foreign coach in close environs, differences are bound to crop up. Look at  , even sophisticated grown-ups develop differences with time. When they were not gelling well, there was no point in continuing," said the 40-year-old.
 
 With so little time left for the World Cup, isn't Nikolai's departure a setback for the country's preparations? "Yes indeed, it is a huge setback. But I will spend some time with the boys and the new coach to ensure that the transition happens smoothly," said India's most capped international player.
 
 Bhutia doesn't think that the arrival of a new coach will affect the system and formation that Nicolai was working on for the last two years. "There is no such thing as formation or fixed strategies in modern football. Teams in all big leagues across the world just play to win according to the situation. Look at the  . If a team is down by a goal in the last 15 minutes, the side goes on an all-out-for attack. The same goes for a team that is keen to defend. Our boys should be able to adapt to the changing systems and situations. There cannot be fixed strategies. Sometimes, you need 11 bulls. At other times, you need them to be just good disciplined players," he observed.
 
 Bhutia believes the World Cup will be a big challenge for the Indian team."We will have many top talents in action as you know at the under-17 level many top boys have already signed contracts with big teams.   had scored his first goal for Everton when he was just 16. So we are expecting those big players and that would be a huge challenge for our team."
 
