NAGPUR: Corporators usually have a bad image but few of them are known for their helping nature and also for working on  . Such corporators will be remembered even if they not contest or succeed in coming back to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).

 Aslam Khan, corporator of   from Mahendra Nagar in North Nagpur donated remuneration of Rs 7,500/month that he received from the civic body for last ten years for a total of Rs 9 lakh to the NMC GM Banatwala English Primary School. Actually, Khan pursued with the NMC and opened the first English medium school to make available education in English to children of slum-dwellers.
 
 “I give my monthly remuneration to any needy student or work at the school. The NMC was about to close down the school. I took initiative and now the school has a strength of over 900. School used to run in rented premises and now I got approved Rs 2 crore for permanent structure.” Khan said.
 
 Khan will be contesting election and is likely to make a comeback for the third consecutive term.
 
 Prakash Gajbhiye, NCP corporator from VNIT ward in West Nagpur and also MLC, is known as leader of slum-dwellers. He attends funerals of the poor almost daily and also gives financial assistance much more than his remuneration to family members for conducting funerals. He also takes care of medical treatment of slum-dwellers and is a regular visitor of government hospitals for ensuring proper service to them. He also helps homeless people to construct shanties in slums raising funds from corporate companies.
 
 Gajbhiye has also developed a literacy park on Hill Road at Ambazari Tekdi slum to promote education among poor. Though a Ambedkarite, Gajbhiye is famous for Ganeshotsav celebration in West Nagpur. He will not feature at the NMC anymore as become a legislator.
 
 Dayashankar Tiwari, BJP corporator from Gandhibagh in Central Nagpur, with the help of NMC organized a slew of sports and cultural activities in last five years. He set a record by organizing skating rally from Kanyakumari to Nagpur. Tiwari is known for year-long activities like workshops and camps for personality development, good speakers, general knowledge tests for students. He conducts regularly a Marathi language test for Muslim community children in objective pattern so that they can learn the local language. Tiwari is also famous for dandiya as a social cause in Central Nagpur. He runs a school of which majority students from backward class.
 
 Harshala Sable and her husband Manoj, Congress corporator from Gandhisagar ward in Central Nagpur, are famous for cultural and religious activities. Sable couple ensure continuation of infamous Vidarbha Ganesh Exhibition at Cotton Market every year that going on since 1971. The couple are known for religious activities at Khandoba temple.
 
 “I feel satisfied as helped over 500 senior citizens in getting remuneration under Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana and over 1,000 in getting ration cards for subsidized foodgrains. I was the first to set up Green Gym in garden that now followed in all parts of the city,” Sable said.
 
 Congress corporator   is known for Slum Soccer in Vidarbha. He brought over 10,000 slum-dwellers in main stream of education and self-employment. 
 
 Corporators like Savita Sangole and her husband Manoj (Independent), Harshal Jaiswal and her husband Sanjay (BSP) have always ahd the interests of their wards close to their hearts. Some corporators are known for innovative initiatives like Divya Dhurde (BJP) for greenery in Nehru Nagar zone, Pravin Narad (BJP) for cleaning of nullahs and rivers etc
 
 Activist   said, “Corporators were also known for social cause in the past. Their image was destroyed with some people in last few years. I knew some corporators who spend money of their own for education, medical treatmentof people. 
 
