PUNE: The   of   tuberculosis (MDR-TB) has taken a beating across the state following   of   for over 20 days.

 It has jeopardised rapid detection and treatment of suspected MDR-TB patients as well as those with HIV-TB co-infection. The situation is so acute that Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) centres are refusing samples of suspected patients.
 
 Confirming the crisis, state tuberculosis officer Sanjeev Kamble said, “A total of 72 centres with GeneXpert facility in Maharashtra have been facing shortage of Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT), which gives out test report within two hours and helps in early diagnosis and treatment of suspected MDR patients and also those with HIV-TB co-infection.
 
  We have been following up with the Union health ministry’s Central TB Division, New Delhi, which provides the testing cartridges to every state. The problem will soon be resolved.”
 
 A circular issued by the state TB officer (also the joint director of health services for tuberculosis and leprosy) to district/city TB officers clearly directs them not to refuse the samples and send them to referral laboratories for testing. TOI has the copy of the circular.
 
 “There is currently acute shortage of CBNAAT cartridges at many CBNAAT sites across the state. It has been observed that some of the CBNAAT sites are refusing the samples sent due to the shortage of cartridges. In this context, you are directed not to refuse the samples and instead the samples should be sent to the respective IRL/Culture and DST Lab attached to your district,” the circular reads.
 
 “As soon as the supply of CBNAAT cartridges resumes the samples should be tested by the respective CBNAAT site as usual,” it reads further.
 
 The city TB officer, Narendra Thakur of the  , said, “We have been allocated GeneXpert or CBNAAT centre at Naidu hospital six months ago. 
 
 In view of the current shortage, we are redirecting the samples to the state government’s designated referral laboratory at Chest hospital in Aundh for testing. Hence, we are not facing any problem.”
 
