NEW DELHI: Two weeks after a man died when he was pushed off an   while resisting a robbery near  , the cops have arrested two men for the crime.   said on Thursday that one of them owned an autorickshaw and picked up passengers at the bus terminus in Anand Vihar. He and his accomplices robbed them on the way. Police suspect the men may have robbed over a dozen passengers.

 Izhaar and Sonu were arrested on Thursday after investigation led police team to an autorickshaw owner who informed them about the possible involvement of three men, including the arrested duo. “After their arrest, the pair confirmed the role of a third associate” said Omvir Singh, DCP (East). “We have registered the strictest of cases against them.”
 
 Early on April 21, brothers Nafis and Hafeez reached Akshardham from their village in Uttar Pradesh on their way to Faridabad. They hired an auto but the driver and his friend took in a third man. The trio then held the brothers at knifepoint a short distance away. One of them kicked Hafeez, who fell halfway from the auto. His head got crushed under the wheels of the auto. Nafis was pushed out of the auto a little further on.
 
 The investigators travelled the route taken by the brothers on the bus from Lakhimpur. Since Nafis could not recall the location where he and his brother had boarded the autorickshaw, the cops disembarked from the bus at three locations. More than 100 autorickshaws plying from these three locations were scanned to determine if any had picked up extra passengers.
 
 The cops zeroed in on three autorickshaws, two of which were found to be owned by one Bhura, who had a prior police record. On questioning, Bhura suggested the cops track Deva, Izhaar and Sonu. While Izhaar and Sonu were picked up on Thursday, Deva, police said, will be arrested soon since he is currently in hospital.
 
 On interrogation, Sonu disclosed that it was Deva who had kicked Hafeez when he resisted their robbery attempt. Police have recovered the knife used by the three men to threaten the brothers.
 
 The cops revealed that once a passenger got on the auto, another man would join the driver and his friend and flank the victim in the rear seat. At an opportune time, the three would threaten the passenger with a knife or gun and rob him before throwing him off the autorickshaw. The arrested men confessed that they struck in this fashion almost every week for some time.
 
 
