LUCKNOW: The latest crackdown on   ticketing   is that involving fake ‘blood relatives’ and non-existent passengers. 

 Travel agents book railway   on random names and then sell it to passengers in need, telling them to lie that the name on the ticket is that of their   relative. 
 
 A recent amendment by the railway ministry allows passengers to travel on a confirmed ticket of their blood relative. However, this provision is being rampantly misused by travel agents involved in black marketing of reserved tickets, said Railway Protection Force officials investigating the racket.
 
 According to the rule by Indian Railways, if a person holding a confirmed ticket is unable to travel, the ticket can be transferred to the ticket holder’s brother, sister, father or mother. In each case, the person needs to carry a declaration letter from the original ticket holder. The person’s spouse can also travel on such a ticket but with an additional application. 
 
 “Most passengers buying tickets through such travel agents are not aware that they need to carry a declaration letter. This letter has to be shown to the TTE,” said RPF senior divisional security commissioner for North Eastern Railway Rajeev Kumar Yadav. 
 
 When a passenger is unable to present the signed document, he/she lands in trouble and pays ticket charge along with penalty.
 
 Yadav is heading the investigation in which four travel agents have been arrested since May 9.
 
 In another type of fraud, fake identity proofs are used by fraudsters posing as travel agents. They register with Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and generate fake mail-IDs to generate tickets. These ‘agents’ book railway tickets in bulk using a range of names and ages. Then, they sell these confirmed tickets to passengers willing to take the risk of travelling on fictitious identity. 
 
 For the crime, they even sell fake ID proofs of the names they have used on their tickets. Such IDs can be bought for Rs 500-Rs Rs 1,000 depending on the need of the passenger and rush on the train.
 
 Yadav said, “We were getting many cases of fake tickets, so we decided to crack down on illegal ticketing agents across the division. The drive will continue. Three of those arrested are from Lucknow while one is from Gonda.
 
 
