AHMEDABAD: In an interesting turn of events,   summoned a rape accused on Wednesday after a pregnant rape victim filed a petition seeking permission to abort her 24-week fetus.

 An 18-year-old from Kheda district approached the court last week and sought directions to medical authority to terminate her pregnancy, which is unwanted as it was caused by rape on her. 
 
 Since the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act does not permit abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, the girl sought the HC’s intervention. Many such rape victims knock on court’s doors because of legal restrictions.
 
  The court heard the victim and her mother on Monday and sought to get medical advice and summoned Dr   and Dr Mahima Jain from   to court on Tuesday. After the court was informed about the progress of the pregnancy, the judge spoke with the girl in his chamber.
 
 After speaking to her, the judge realized that the “position is quite contrary to what has been stated in the writ application”. 
 
 Before taking a decision on permission to terminate the pregnancy, the judge expressed a wish to speak to the accused person, who has been arrested on charges of raping the petitioner.
 
 The court did not seem to find the version in the FIR and the petition true. It also noticed that the FIR was lodged by the victim’s mother and nobody’s name was mentioned in the FIR. It was during investigation that one Ashwin Mehra was arrested on rape chargess and lodged in Anand sub-jail. The HC ordered the jail authorities to produce Mehra before the court on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The HC also directed the authorities to ensure that no harassment is caused to the victim, not even by her family members.
 
 A few months ago, a similar petition was filed by  , for the termination of pregnancy of an inmate who was deaf-mute and of unsound mind. She was allegedly raped by one of the shelter home’s employees. 
 
 The HC used help from interpreters, who conveyed twice to the court that the woman wanted to abort. But when Justice Sonia Gokani inquired personally with help from an interpreter and a psychologist in her chamber, the judge found out that the woman’s wish was contrary to what the what the managers of the shelter home wanted.
 
