MUMBAI: The bumper production of   has led to drop in prices, but   is affecting its storage and transportation.

 Since it has been a bumper tur dal production year, the amount of gunny bags that the marketing federation allocates to every marketing yard where farmers come with their produce has been falling short. And this has led to trade being suspended in key pulses markets in the state.
 
 Officials in the marketing department said that more than 1.5 lakh tonnes of tur dal has been lying in the key market yards for want of gunny bags. With the state government yet to make a formal announcement on its plan to tackle it, farmers are making losses despite it being a good production year. “There is a heavy inflow of tur dal in most of the pulse market yards such as Hingoli, Parbhani and Akola. However, trade has been affected due to shortage of gunny bags, shortage of space to store dal and also agitation by farmers following dip in rates. These things point to a lack of foresight on the part of the government to deal with such a situation, which has impacted farmers hard,“ said an official from the department.
 
 Officials said that marke ting minister Subhash Deshmukh convened a meeting on this issue and asked the marketing federation to make more gunny bags available.They are also scouting for bags from Rajasthan.
 
 The minimum support price (MSP) for tur dal is Rs 5,050 per quintal, but farmers are getting Rs3,800-Rs 4,000 per quintal, which has further fallen in many parts of the state. Maharashtra is one of the major tur-producing states in the country and this year's production is estimated at 11.71 lakh tonnes against 4.4 lakh tonnes last year.The area under tur production has also risen last year as compared to 2015.
 
 A total area of 15.33 lakh hectare was under tur production in 2016 as compared to 12.37 lakh hectare in 2015.The state cabinet has also tripled the stock limits for wholesalers and retailers so that purchase can pick up easing the back end flow.
 
