INDORE: Bank operations will be hit on Tuesday as over 400 branches of different  , cooperative banks and rural banks in Indore will go on a nationwide  .

 The strike, which comes during the last quarter of the fiscal year, will delay clearances of cheques and RTGS as well as other banking operations. This will hit industries and traders the most.
 
 About 3,800 bank employees and officers of 19 public sector banks including   and its five associated banks and 19 old private banks as well as regional rural banks and cooperative banks will go on strike.
 
 MK Shukla, chairman,  , said, “We will observe a nationwide strike on Tuesday. We have intimated the government about our long pending demand but it is not ready to listen.”
 
 Nine bank unions, under the aegis of  , observed a one-day strike which opposed poor banking reforms and included compensation demands for employees working extra hours during demonetisation.
 
 Bank unions also demanded initiating the next wage revision of bank employees early, stringent measures to recover bad loans, accountability of top executives as well as criminal action against willful defaulters of bank loans.
 
 Gautam Kothari, president, Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan, said, “Industries will be hit due to the strike. Being the last day of the month, industries will require money to disburse salaries to employees.”
 
 Industrialists said that the delay in clearing cheques and other customer services will hit industrial operations.
 
 Some private banks such as ICICI, YES Bank and a few others will operate on Tuesday.
 
 Bankers said ATM services will remain unaffected as filling the machines with money is carried out by third parties. All 9 bank unions have been protesting since February 13.
 
 Shukla said, “This strike could have been avoided if we would have been allowed to speak to the finance ministry, but we were not allowed to meet them. The strike is not good for anyone this is our last resort to put pressure on the government for our demands to be met.”
 
