BHOPAL: The city woke up to thundershowers,   on Saturday that pulled down the temperature and brought back the feel of winter. Bhopal recorded 2 mm rain between 8.30 am to 5.30 pm but it was enough to bring down the maximum by six degrees below normal, making it the coldest day of the month . 

 Showers are likely to continue on Sunday, making it a cool weekend after a long period of unusually warm days. This was the second spell of thundershowers and hailstorm in the city this winter after January 26-27.
 
 Jawahar Chowk, Neelbad, Raisen Road and parts of the Old City were battered by hailstorms. A 12 kmph wind added to the chill factor. Day temperature on Friday was recorded at 21.5 degrees, a sharp drop from Wednesday’s 31.7 degrees. However, the minimum temperature in Bhopal on Saturday was on the higher side — two notches above normal at 14.2 degrees Celsius.
 
 Met officials of Bhopal circle attributed the showers to a low pressure area over Hoshangabad, which is pulling moisture from the Arabian Sea. There is an upper air cyclonic circulation over  , including Raisen and Chhindwara, which resulted in the thundershowers, said an official. Also, there is a confluence of winds between Chhattisgarh and eastern Madhya Pradesh and another over western MP and Gujarat that contributed to the showers, officials added. This weather condition is expected to prevail in the state for a day or two more. 
 
 The rain pulled down mercury to 21.5 degrees Celsius during the day, six degrees less than normal. It was lowest day temperature of the month so far. Intermittent showers of varying intensity continued throughout the day in Bhopal. The day temperature has been dipping over the past four days in Bhopal by as much as 10 degrees Celsius. 
 
 Apart from Bhopal, it rained in several other parts of Madhya Pradesh — Guna 6mm, Jabalpur 4mm, Satna 2mm, and Sagar, Damoh and Naogaon 1mm each. Hoshangabad recorded 0.2 mm rain and there was a trace of rain in Shajapur, Khajuraho and Sidhi. These cities also witnessed hailstorms. Besides, there were reports of hailstorms in Rewa, Katni, Umaria and Shahdol. While people may enjoy the return of winter, the hailstorm could ruin crops. 
 
 In the state, the lowest temperature was recorded at Khajuraho at 6 degrees while Khandwa was the warmest at 31.1 degrees. 
 
 Bhopal could wake up to a party cloudy sky on Sunday with a high possibility of thunderstorm and rain. Fog is expected in parts of the city during the early morning hours. There would still be a 12-14 kmph wind and day and night temperatures could dip to 22 degrees and 13 degrees.
 
 Sagar, Shahdol, Katni, Jabalpur, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Shivpuri, Raisen, Sehore, Vidisha and Hoshangabad districts might also get rain. There is a hailstorm warning for Raisen, Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Sagar, Damoh, Narsinghpur, Jabalpur, Katni, Umaria and Shahdol districts. There could be scattered showers in parts of Rewa, Ujjain, Ratlam, Jhabua, Dhar, Dewas, Khandwa, Harda, Agar, Shajapur, Rajgarh, Betul, Chhindwara and Mandala. Weather is likely to be dry over the rest of the state and there could be even a marginal rise in day temperatures.
 
 Bhopal……
 
 Rainfall: 2mm
 
 Day temp: 21.5 (-6)
 
 Night temp: 14.4 (+2)
 
 Hailstorms at Jawahar Chowk, Neelbad, Raisen Road
 
 Expect a repeat on Sunday 
 
 10 deg cooler in 3 days
 
 Wed: 31.7 
 
 Thu: 27.2
 
 Fri: 21.5
 
 Madhya Pradesh……
 
 Highest rain: Guna 6mm 
 
 Lowest temp: Khajuraho 6 deg Celsius
 
 Highest temp: Khandwa 31.1 deg Celsius
 
 Hailstorm warning in Raisen, Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Sagar, Damoh, Narsinghpur, Jabalpur, Katni, Umaria and Shahdol
 
 
