SOLANG (MANALI): With participation of over 200 skiers from many states and Armed forces, national skiing competitions have kicked off in Manali on Thursday. Both men and women competitions are being conducted in three categories – alpine skiing, giant slalom and snowboarding – which will continue for five days.

 Lack of funds being main problem, Solang slopes could not host national skiing competitions for last seven years. This time, Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association ( ) is conducting the competition with the help of Winter Games Federation of India (WGFI) and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports ( ). Despite shortage of funds, the organizers are managing to successfully organize the competition as per specification of International Ski Federation (FIS).
 
 HPWGA president  , who is also WGFI vice-president, said, “Nearly 200 competitors are full of enthusiasm and large crowd has come to see the skiers. This is a big opportunity for our skiers and this competition will become a ladder for them to go to world championships and Olympics,” he said.
 
  from High Altitude Warfare School at Gulmarg, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Indian Institute of Mountaineering at Gulmarg, ski associations of Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Punjab and Uttarakhand, Vikas Mandal Uttarakhand, ABVIMAS and HPWGA are participating in the competition. The weather conditions here are favourable for skiing as day temperature is below 10 degrees Celsius. The slopes have more than 100cm thick blanket of snow.
 
 Winter Games Federation of India secretary general Roshan Thakur said, “We are checking equipment and outfit of the skiers which should be according to FIS specifications. These games will encourage more youths to adopt winter games which are not much popular in country,” he said.
 
 Despite successful organization of these competitions, local skiers are not fully satisfied due to weak infrastructure of Solang ski slopes. Local skiers rue that government had promised to provide Solang ski resorts with a snow-beating machine but the organizers are beating the snow manually. Also, the ski lift here is not working and skiers are forced to climb the slope on foot.
 
 
