DEHRADUN/ALMORA/PITHORAGARGH: Discontent within   continued to brew on the second day after the declaration of names of candidates by the party with many leaders denied tickets alleging that they were contesting as independents. On Wednesday, at the party's central office in Dehradun, angry workers from   in favour of  , the sitting MLA of the area who had been denied a ticket. “All of us are shocked that the sitting MLA has been ignored and a total outsider Narayan Singh Rana has been given a ticket by the party,” said  , a leader from the area.
 
  Similar scenes were witnessed in Kumaon where at least four BJP leaders declared they will contest as independents. Supporters of these leaders also burnt effigies of state party president Ajay Bhatt and Union minister Ajay Tamta and tore posters of Amit Shah in Dharchula in Pithoragarh district.
  
  In Ajay Bhatt’s constituency Ranikhet, Pramod Nainwal, who was hoping to get a ticket for the seat quit the party and declared he will contest the election as an independent candidate. “For the last two and a half years, I have garnered a lot of support among women and youth for my campaign against alcohol, so winning wouldn’t be difficult. I will file a nomination on January 21,” he said.
  
  Kailash Sharma, a former MLA, who was also hoping to get a ticket for Almora constituency, rued the selection of Raghunath Singh Chauhan as the BJP candidate. “Chauhan lost the seat three times so it is surprising why he was considered again. I am in discussion with my supporters and will take a decision on whether to contest as an independent candidate by Thursday,” said Sharma.
  
  Meanwhile, leaders and workers from Bageshwar, Gangolihat, Dharchula, Kapkot and Champawat constituencies also threatened to resign from the party and contest as independents. Bhupesh Upadhyay, a BJP leader from Kapkot, told TOI that all senior leaders of the party who were denied tickets are forming a new group called ‘Loktantrik Bhajpa.’ “The group is fielding 35 candidates in several constituencies. We will defeat the candidates from BJP and win at least 10 seats among 35 in the hills of Kumaon, Garhwal as well as areas in the plains like Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar,” he claimed.
  
  In Didihat constituency of Pithoragarh, senior BJP leader and ex-zila panchayat chairman Kishan Bhandari, protesting against the candidature of Bishan singh Chuphal, sitting MLA of the area, declared he will contest as an independent. “The party’s internal survey report was in my favour but it was ignored. Therefore, I will file my nomination as an independent on Jan 23.” The worst affected constituency in this respect was Dharchula, where BJP workers came out on the streets to protest against the candidature of Virendra Singh Pal who had joined the BJP a few months ago. “It is an insult to active workers that a newly-inducted person has been preferred over old-time leaders,” said Rakesh Tiwari, a youth BJP leader.
  
  In several constituencies where the BJP has fielded the former rebels of the Congress, disgruntled party leaders have already announced their intention to contest as independents. These include Suresh Chand Jain who has protested against former Congressman PradeepBatra being preferred for the Roorkee seat, Om Gopal Rawat who is upset at ex-rebel SubodhUniyal being considered for the Narendra Nagar constituency and Asha Nautiyal who is miffed because BJP chose former Congress MLA from Kedarnath, Shailarani Rawat over her for the seat.
  
  “It is frustrating to see the manner in which the Congress leaders have been inducted. Our workers want to know which BJP survey stated that we must induct a father-son duo (YashpalArya and his son) and also which party survey stated that the son and daughter of senior leaders must be given tickets,” said a senior BJP leader.
  
  He added that it was “a big strategic mistake” on the part of the party to replicate the UP strategy of bringing leaders from rival camps. “This strategy will not work in Uttarakhand where not just the party workers but also traditional BJP voters will not support the new faces.” The party's state unit, however, downplayed the situation by saying that “the anger will subside gradually.” “Our workers will stand united and work for ensuring the victory of the candidates,” said BJP spokesperson Vinay Goel.
  
  (Inputs by Yogesh Kumar, Arpita Chakrabarty & Prem Punetha)
