NEW DELHI: Two people died and three were critically injured after getting mowed down by a speeding low-floor   near   station on Wednesday afternoon. Police suspect the driver lost control of the bus after the front right tyre burst. The incident, which took place at 11.50am, was noticed by cops in a PCR van parked outside the Metro station.

 The bus first rammed two e-rickshaws and then an   killing a 15-year-old boy and a 45-year-old man. “The bus driver,   (55), abandoned the vehicle and fled after the accident. He was later arrested,” said a police officer.
 
 The first e-rickshaw driver, Shahrukh (21), said that he was taking money from a passenger when he saw the bus rushing towards him. “I jumped off my e-rickshaw and shouted at the passenger sitting in the back seat, Sparsh Rawal (15), to do the same. But by then the bus had rammed my vehicle,” he added. He had rented the e-rickshaw eight months ago.
 
 The auto driver,   (28), told TOI that the bus rammed his vehicle from behind when he had just boarded it after buying a bottle of water from a kiosk outside the station. The auto was dragged for nearly 20 metres before the bus finally stopped. “The roof of the e-rickshaw that was first hit got ripped off and smashed the windshield of the bus,” he added.
 
 Rawal died during treatment at a private hospital. Devender Prasad (45), the driver of the second e-rickshaw, was declared brought dead at Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital. Shahrukh and Kumar were treated for their injuries and discharged later in the day. Achar Singh, the passenger in the second e-rickshaw, is being treated at AIIMS Trauma Center.
 
 There were no passengers inside the bus at the time of the accident. A police team pacified the angry locals and commuters to prevent violence. However, it took almost half an hour to bring the traffic under control. “A huge crowd had gathered outside the station after the accident making it difficult for the cops to manage the traffic,” said Sandeep, an eyewitness.
 
 A case under IPC sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) has been registered against the driver.
 
 
