A slim novel, barely touching 200 pages and yet it'll touch you in the way only Hanif Kureishi’s writing can.

  The story is narrated from the point of view of an elderly conceited playwright, Waldo. His smugness and superiority are both entertaining and irritating. Waldo is now retired and dying and the book revolves around his thoughts, particularly towards his wife whom he suspects of being unfaithful. It focuses on the dark emotions this evokes in him towards her, her lover and himself and the revenge he fantasises about. Filled with black humour and insightful observations in a very readable prose, the author's observations shine through the irritating character.
 
  If you have low patience for protagonists with bad personalities, you might not like this as none of the limited cast of characters are particularly likeable; still you're likely to feel sympathy, empathy or both towards the main character -- a testimony to the power of the author's writing.
 
  Set mostly in an apartment in London where Waldo is wheelchair bound, you get a sense of the claustrophobia he feels. The book will make you think about relationships, time and aging. The way the author describes their effect on bodies and vice versa is an interesting theme worth noting. The book also indulges in blunt talk on sexual topics, particularly Waldo's desires and suspicions, which might not be palatable to all readers! But the humour and casual eloquence with which he can describe what some might consider vulgar is worth appreciating. 
 
  The book is an interesting insight into a dirty egoistic man's mind, where we may not agree with his thoughts or even like him, but it's a fascinating read nonetheless. 
 
 
 
 
  
  of 
  writes, “Hanif Kureishi’s short, sharp tale of revenge is diabolical fun".
 
  
  of 
  reviews, “The tormented revenge fantasies of a cuckolded film-maker are told with Kureishi’s customary relish.” 
 
  
  of 
  writes, “After a lifetime’s philandering, Kureishi’s protagonist is reduced to impotent rage when he finds himself the cuckold.” 
 
 
