PUNE: Citizens looking for new   will not have to run from one service provider to another.   (PMC) is coming up with a ‘civic fibre optic cable network’ spread over 2,300 km in the city. 

 People will be able to use Internet services through this network. The administration will not have to spend money on broadband fees for civic services, and instead will have a source to generate revenue.
 
 “The project to lay fibre optic cables has been undertaken. These cables will be laid through ducts along the roadside. The civic body has to provide a number of services which are Internet based. If we have our own network, it will reduce the financial burden on the civic body as the PMC will not have to spend money on fees to be paid to service providers,” municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar told TOI.
 
 He said the civic body has already issued tenders for creating the ducts. Nearly Rs 250 crore will be spent. Private companies are going to use them for augmentation of their Internet and cellphone service. The civic body will utilise the same infrastructure to build its own cable network.
 
 Civic officials said a number of Internet-based facilities are in the offing. They include paperless building permissions, GPS tagging and monitoring properties and geo-tagging of trees. 
 
 A centralised traffic management system, CCTV network, smart street lighting and centralised control rooms are to be set up in the city, for which high-speed Internet will be needed.
 
 Activists feel the civic administration should prioritize work. “The civic administration should first check if they have the expertise in providing such services. If they don’t have it, they should focus on primary work. Their priority should be to provide flawless basic civic infrastructure and they should stick to it,”  , founder of  , a citizens’ group, said. 
 
 According to estimates, it is currently spending around Rs 30 crore per annum on the broadband and other Internet services obtained from service providers. It may go up drastically, once new services are added and all other major services are converted into online services. 
 
 The administration estimates that it will have to spend around Rs 3,000 crore during the next 10 years. Revenue generation of around Rs 5,000 crore is envisaged by providing broadband service to users. 
 
