NASHIK: Continuing its crackdown against motorists for speaking on the mobile phone while driving, the Nashik regional transport office ( ) on Friday suspended 18 more driving licences, bringing the total to 22 since the drive was launched on Thursday. 

 The RTO also issued show-cause notices to 24 violators, most of whom were two-wheeler riders and who failed to attend a hearing, as to why their licences should not be suspended, a senior official of the RTO said on Friday. 
 
 "If a motorist is caught speaking on the   while the licence is under suspension for 90 days, his/her licence will be cancelled permanently," the official told TOI.
 
 If the 24 motorists, whose licences have been seized for speaking on the mobile while driving, fail to attend the hearing by the RTO within seven days, their licences will be suspended automatically for three months. 
 
 Meanwhile, RTO officials said the police action against errant motorists will only help spreading the awareness about not speaking on the mobile while driving. 
 
 During the last financial year, the RTO had suspended 98 driving licences for the same offence. From April 2016 to March 2017, a total 1,162 driving licenses were suspended for offences like illegal passenger transport, overloading of goods vehicles, illegal transport of school students, jumping the red signal. 
 
 Jayant Bajbale, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, "The drive will continue in the future. We have deployed teams across the city to take action against erring motorists. Apart from this, our regular action against other traffic violations is also under way."
 
 The traffic police collect fines from violators (mobile phone) under section 250 (A)/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act, seize their driving licence and send them to the RTO for suspension. 
 
 The motorist is required to proceed to the RTO on Wednesday or Friday between 3pm and 5pm and explain why his/her licence should not be cancelled. RTO officials said that since the motorists are fined by the police for speaking on the phone while driving, they generally suspend all the licences they seize from them. 
 
