 In order to take a relook at the impact of climate change on tea production and explore the potential of tea tourism in India, Union commerce and industries minister   will meet scientists from IITs, stakeholders of the tea industry,   (TRA) brass, tourism experts, weathermen and state government officials at Jorhat in Assam on March 25-26.
 
  This is arguably for the first time, the Central government is taking a concrete step to address the problems of climate change and the prospect of tea tourism in India. The Government of India’s India Tourism is going to a take part in the tea tourism seminar.
  
  Elaborating the Union minister’s visit, the   chairman   on Tuesday told TOI: “The minister will take stock of the whole situation in the largest tea-growing state in the country and Bengal. Here, she would participate in a series of brain-storming sessions with the tea producers, TRA and agricultural researchers in IITs, soil and climate experts, small tea growers and tea tasters. She will try to gather newer ways to fight and mitigate challenges of climate change and uplift tea tourism in India.”
  
  The Centre along with the Tea Board is also inviting the tea gardens (like Glenburn Tea Estate in Darjeeling, Gatoonga Tea Estate near Jorhat, Addabarie Tea Estate, near Tezpur; Munnar and Nilgiri tea plantations) which have shown ways in setting up tea tourism.
  
  The tea-producing belt in north India like Assam and north Bengal, has been facing the brunt of climate change in the form of extreme weather conditions — either a drought-like situation or high-intensity rainfall. Many tea gardens in Brahmaputra valley battle the problem of water logging due to high intensity rainfall, says a Tea Board report to be presented to Sitharaman on March 25.
  
  The minister during her two-day trip would discuss about the tea plantation varieties suitable for the changed climate, soil testing and irrigation facilities to combat the challenges.
  
  “There are drastic shifts in rainfall and too much and too less rainfall is observed in a year resulting in the increase in flood and drought events. The abiotic stresses (drought and rainfall), additionally trigger biotic stresses. Increase incidences of pest and diseases. The planters have to face and combat both these stresses more frequently in the recent years due to climate change,” it adds.
  
  The chairman of the top producers’ body, Indian Tea Association, Azam Monem, pins hopes on Sitharaman’s visit. “A lot of research is needed to combat this situation. New clones, new plantation techniques would be required to face this situation. If the Centre’s mood is good, the industry can get huge benefit in terms of technical and financial assistance this time,” Monem said.
  
  The cost in terms of irrigation (during dry periods), control of flooding by drainage during heavy rainfall and increased spending on disease and insect/pest control along with labour expenses have added to the producers’ woe.
  
  A study on climate change, done by Jorhat-based Tocklai Experimental Station of Tea Research Association, had found that the state has been witnessing long rainless spells or high intensity rainfall of short duration in recent years, which are two major challenges of ‘alarming nature’ for the state’s tea sector. The study had found that the average minimum temperature in Assam has risen by one degree Celsius in the past 90 years. Besides, the region lost around 200 mm rainfall because of climatic changes.
  
  Another study by the Centre for Environment Social and Policy Research, and Rashtriya Gramin Vikas Nidhi in collaboration with Indian Network on Ethics and Climate Change found that six districts of Assam — Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Morigaon and Baksa — spread across the Brahmaputra valley have already started experiencing the adverse impact of climate change.
