Cancun, Mexico: In a rare diplomatic move and probably being the only country here at UN's Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, India has held five bilateral meetings with countries in the Asia Pacific region and more are scheduled to build a global coalition of countries that will closely work on disaster mitigation and share expertise and technology with each other on safeguarding critical infrastructure that includes schools, hospitals, road, power and telecommunication.

 This is second significant diplomatic initiative by the   government after forming a global alliance of 121 countries post-Paris Climate Conference of 2015. The bilateral with Mongolia, Indonesia, Australia, Japan and   have been held here in the last two days and a few others are scheduled on Friday, including the one with Mexico. 
 
 "We are holding these bilateral meetings with as many countries as possible and have invited them to an international conference in New Delhi in July with the help of UNISDR where the formation of the coalition may materialize," said a source.
 
 Minister of state for Home Kiren Rijiju and PM Narendra Modi´s additional principal secretary  , between them, have been meeting these country representatives, an agenda that was worked out well in advance before a high-level Indian delegation left New Delhi for Cancun to participate in the Global Platform for DRR (disaster risk reduction) organized by the UN´s Office for Disaster risk Reduction (UNISDR). The global platform is being attended by representatives of 189 countries, including 50 ministers and seven heads of state.
 
 On Thursday, the PM´s additional principal secretary represented India at a high-level meeting of 13 countries called by UN´s deputy secretary-general Amina Mohammed where Mishra made a strong pitch for building the coalition. The agenda of the meet was finding coherence among the Sendai framework for DRR, the Paris Climate agreement and the Sustainable development goals.
 
 Mishra made a reference to the Indian PM´s 10-point agenda on safeguarding critical infrastructure and a global coalition he had proposed last year in November 2016 at the Asian ministerial conference on DRR in New Delhi. The PM's additional principal secretary is believed to have impressed upon the UN deputy secretary-general and the representatives of other 12 countries that the coalition proposed by India would be key to integrating all the three major frameworks of Sendai, Paris and the Sustainable goals by focusing on safeguarding the critical infrastructure and achieving these goals by 2030.
 
 "Damage to social and physical infrastructure disrupts social and economic activity and brings hardships to poor and the handicap and affects their livelihood," Mishra said. To fulfill the Sendai framework, which calls for targeted reduction of losses of both lives and properties by 2030, safeguarding the critical infrastructure is as important as it is to achieve the goals of the sustainable development and the climate change, he added.
 
 Pakistan was a significant exclusion since the gathering was restricted to countries which had organized any regional or global DRR platforms. The 13 countries that attended the high-level meet and were broadly in agreement with the Indian initiative included Fiji, Finland, Italy, Mauritius, Mexico, Mangolia, Qatar, Switzerland, Turkey and Tunisia.
 
 India is projecting itself as a champion of climate change and sustainable development. Towards meeting its DRR goals, it had had set aside more than $8 billions for disaster mitigation and relief work over a five year period. Interestingly, India was appreciated by the UN at its current global platform for being the largest democracy and the only country in the world to have come up with a national plan and a local strategy for DRR.
 
 India earlier this month had launched a   satellite to help all the countries in the sub-continent with a real time relay of early warning and risk assessment from impending disasters. Some of these countries don’t have their own weather forecasting system. With the latest satellite, it will help them set up latest communication system and carry out rescue operations and minimize disaster deaths. India has shown a desire to engage nations across continents and forming a coalition on DRR is seen as a step in that direction.
 
 The proposed coalition is expected to collaborate in four areas —areas of scientific research; an institutional set up for standards and design for construction of physical infrastructure and its operation and maintenance by member countries; linking financing to resilience and finally supporting recovery of infrastructure when disasters strike them.
 
 
