KOLKATA: Railway minister   announced in the   on Wednesday that the   engaged to serve food on the Sealdah-New Delhi Rajdhani Express has been terminated.On Tuesday , passengers had lodged a complaint at Sealdah against   for dinner.Sources say Eastern Railway (ER) received as many as 19 complaints in February regar ding the quality of food served on the Sealdah Rajdhani.

 Over the last few months, the catering agency was fined nearly Rs 45 lakh by ER. Prabhu took this step after MoS for urban development and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo took up the issue on the passengers' behalf.
 
 The agency that faced the axe is R K Associates & Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, one of the largest caterers to serve food on nearly 150 trains and in charge of stalls at major stations. TOI tried calling up officials of R K Associates but there was no response, as there was none to an SMS either.Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will now serve food on the Sealdah Rajdhani.
 
 “This should have happened months ago. Why did ER wait for so long? How can a caterer be allowed to continue despite so many issues? The ER general manager should have terminated the contract without waiting for the railway minister to take the step. Even after Tuesday's complaints, ER imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 and issued a showcause notice,“ a senior Railway Board official said.
 
 This isn't the first time R K Associates has got into trouble.In 2015, the agency was pulled up by the CBI for supplying inferior quality packaged water to passengers on premier trains. According to a source, railway catering is big business amounting to nearly Rs 2,000 crore annually . Every day , nearly 5.22 lakh meals are served on trains and at stations. Till 2010, IRCTC was in charge of catering on trains. It was during Mamata Banerjee's tenure as railway minister that some of the trains were handed over to the zonal railways. Officials also admit the tendering process for catering isn't transparent.
 
 “Cartels operate and catering agencies spend crores to bag contracts. Whenever there is trouble, they are ready to pay fines. Given the rates offered by the railways, it wouldn't have been profitable to operate after all this, unless sub-standard food is served. There is lack of monitoring by the railways, particularly if the train belongs to another zone,“ said an official.
 
