NEW DELHI: Constitutional expert P P Rao, who never betrayed his emotions during a court room battle, died on Wednesday following a cardiac arrest. He was 84.

 The soft-spoken Rao’s stature was at par with the most famous lawyers of India —   (the senior-most at 94 years), Fali S Nariman (88), Soli J Sorabjee (87) and K K Venugopal (86) — who dominated constitutional battles for decades in hallowed court rooms and helped the Supreme Court arrive at just and fair decisions.
 
 Born on July 1, 1933, Rao obtained a masters degree in law from Osmania University had started his career as a law teacher in Delhi University in 1961. The irresistible call of the courtroom made him enrol as an advocate with the   in 1967. Within nine years, his court craft and knowledge of law earned him the coveted designation of ‘senior advocate’.
 
 His leaning towards the Congress party was well known. In the SC, he defended the constitutional validity of the P V Narasimha Rao government’s decision to dismiss three BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in 1993 following the demolition of   on December 6, 1992.
 
 The question before the court was, how could the ineptitude, unconstitutional action and inability to control the crowd leading to demolition of the mosque be a ground for dismissal of BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which were in no way connected to the ground available for exercise of powers under Article 356 to dismiss the UP government.
 
 Rao, who appeared for the Madhya Pradesh government under President’s rule, had coined the ‘common thread’ theory and said states ruled by the same political party had felt the same seismic vibration of unconstitutional action by state governments during the demolition of the mosque.
 
 Emphasising the Constitution’s secular nature, he had argued that non-secular policies, programmes and acts of political parties placed such parties outside the pale of the Constitution and hence the Centre was justified in dismissing them. The SC had upheld the dismissal of the three state governments.
 
 Rao contributed handsomely in helping the SC decide the controversial JMM MPs bribery case (P V Narasimha Rao case) which resulted in the court ruling that MPs and MLAs were public servants and that those MPs who took bribe and voted were protected from prosecution but those who accepted bribe but did not vote were to be prosecuted.
 
 He had also placed important arguments before the SC’s Constitution benches which decided the OBC quota in jobs after the   report. 
 
