Hyderabad: Fintech Valley Vizag’s dreams of emerging as a national and global fintech innovation hub inched yet another step towards reality on Wednesday with the Andhra Pradesh government inking Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with fintech multinationals Visa and Thomson Reuters. The MoU signing was presided over by AP’s tech-savvy chief minister Nara Chandrababu   in Mumbai.

 While Visa is a global payments brand, technology and processing company with more than 2 billion credit, debit and prepaid accounts across over 200 countries and territories, Thomson Reuters (TR) Corporation is a provider of news and information for a range of professional markets. As per the Memoranda of Understandin, Visa will help sustain financial inclusion, increase digital adoption and develop educational curricula for financial literacy as well as introduce latest technologies like Quick Response (QR) code and Near-Field Communication (NFC) to enable digital payments for government and business segments. Thomson Reuters, on the other hand, will build fintech initiatives using government-provided infrastructure and university resources. Speaking on the occasion, Chandrababu Naidu said, “Our vision is to create 5 lakh jobs in AP by 2020 through technology-enabled services. Our aim is to turn Fintech Valley, which is a playground for start-ups and innovators, into a global hub by enhancing the fintech ecosystem with mutually beneficial cross border collaborations and relationships.” 
 
 “These MoUs are steps towards converting our vision to reality – of making Andhra Pradesh the leader in fintech – through Fintech Valley Vizag,” said J A Chowdary, special chief secretary and Information Technology advisor to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister. Terming the partnership as a strategic endeavour, Visa’s India and South Asia group country manager TR Ramachandran said: “We propose to undertake this initiative as a part of Visa’s global financial inclusion efforts that aim to provide 500 million underserved with a payment account by 2020. 
 
 With the launch of BharatQR, a global first-of-its-kind low cost payment solution, we hope to rapidly scale up the number of small merchants accepting digital payments. In addition, we hope to implement innovative commercial payment solutions that will accrue significant benefits to the state.” Thomson Reuters South Asia managing director Pradeep Lankapalli said: 
 
 “Our open platform technology and access to global best practices, will provide the right enablers and expertise to the Andhra Pradesh government as they pursue the goal of building a global fintech hub.”
 
 
