COIMBATORE: At least five patients have succumbed to suspected   virus in the past month, out of which three died in the past five days. However, the public health department remains in denial, claiming that there have been no H1N1 deaths in the district. The department says they will record a death as being due to H1N1, only if they test positive for the virus in the lab at the government hospital. They dismiss the deaths "as rumours". 

 Three patients who tested positive for the H1N1 virus died in the last five days in the government hospital alone. While two of the patients, a 65-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman, were from Coimbatore-Onampalayam and Karamadai-the third was a 50-year-old man from Ooty. These three patients who were being treated at the H1N1 ward in   and Hospital (CMCH) were given oseltamivir and put on ventilators. 
 
 While the government hospital says they did not declare the deaths because they tested negative for the virus in their laboratory, public health department officials say the Coimbatore patients died of other co-morbid conditions. "We did not mention Gopal,   and  's deaths as due to H1N1 because they did not test positive for the virus. They got admitted with breathing problems, full-blown virus and pneumonia," said a hospital doctor.
 
 The deputy director of public health, Dr P G Bhanumathi, says "We do not know Sathyaveni's conditions, but Palaniswamy had so many other problems like diabetes and even liver problems. He died due to those and the age factor."
 
 However top infectious disease experts rubbish the theory that H1N1 can't be cause of death if the patient is suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension or oldage. 
 
 "H1N1 when it progresses to a viral pneumonia and the patient's oxygen requirements are not met, they will die," said Chennai-based infectious diseases expert, Dr  , of Apollo Hospitals. 
 
 "It is the virus that has brought about the pneumonia and lung congestion, so H1N1 is the cause of death," he said.
 
