 
 says that   and his twomonth-old government are on the same page on the urgency to restore peace and normalcy in the northeast. In an exclusive interview with TOI’s 
 in Delhi, Singh blamed previous governments for widening the the ‘hills vs valley’ divide and said China’s domineering presence in the neighbourhood made lifting   difficult. Excerpts:

 
 
 Things have not been cordial, especially with Nagaland... We are trying to have a peaceful northeast, free of insurgency and communal tension and we are having dialogue. Disturbances were created by people with vested interest. There has been no disruptions since our government came to power as we are constantly speaking with the Nagaland government. Moreover, within Manipur we have made it clear before any kind of disruption or protest, they should do is approach us and have a dialogue.
 
 Whatever good governments in the region are doing, we would like to emulate, like Pema Khandu’s (Arunachal Pradesh CM) initiative for job creation and employment schemes for the youth or the gender inclusive policies of Sonowal (Assam CM) government. We are discussing with our counterparts as the larger aim is regional development.
 
 
 
 I was the MLA who demanded lifting of AFSPA and we even agitated. It has been partially revoked from urban areas. But with a country like China on your border we cannot ignore the possibility of anything. The government will definitely review lifting AFSPA when the situation improves.
 
 
 
 It has been happening because of mistrust and lack of equality in development in the state. The majority Meitei community has not done that intentionally. The geographical inequality has fuelled by mistakes of previous governments. I have requested the PM for a topographical needbased budget. In the hills because of the geographical factor you cannot develop the region with small investments.
 
 
 
 BJP can give equality among different communities. Already northeast, particularly, Manipur has been divided on ethnic lines, which is unfortunate. Now BJP’s mission under PM   is to have equality among the communities.
 
 
 
 Yes, because of blockades and unrests. Students want to study. That window is very small and so they are leaving. The situation is improving, the academic situation too will follow.
 
 
 
 In Manipur, I am trying to focus on tourism. We are identifying areas were tourism can be promoted. Another area is agriculture and horticulture production. My government, with guidance from the Centre, would promote food processing. We would also set up cold storages. With the power supply improving, this can be a crucial revenue model.
 
 
