Indore: Malini Gaud has completed two years as   of the city and while the ruling party and her are singing praises about development work in the last two years, Congress has come up with a list of work that should have been done but were not by IMC.

 “In the last two years, the mayor has kept all development agendas aside. She had promised a lot of things but after winning the election, has forgot them,” said Fozia Sheikh Ali, leader of opposition, IMC.
 
 The opposition alleged that while the civic body was planning to make Indore a smart city, people were facing basic problems like lack of drinking water, proper drainage system, good roads and street lights.
 
 “In the name of smart city, crores of rupees have been spent. They have been talking big about cleanliness but have not been able to maintain dustbins. The condition of cleanliness in the city can be understood by the fact that dustbins they install get stolen,” Alim said.
 
 Congress also said that the mayor has disrespected the people of the city by not coming to her office. “The office of the mayor is meant to facilitate interaction with the common people but she is hardly seen in her office,” Alim said.
 
 The opposition also raised issue of residents being displaced from areas like Biyabani and Ganesh Mohalla and said she has not take any step to provide basic amenities to them.
 
 “They have money to waste on advertisement but do not have money to provide compensation to these people and carry out development projects,” Alim said.
 
 The opposition also said while the mayor promised no additional burden would be created for residents of the city, the ruling party started charging for facilities like garbage collection.
 
 “The mayor does not call general body meeting on time, even when the meeting is held the opposition is not given adequate time to speak, she doesn’t want anyone to speak against her and her party,” Alim said.
 
 All allegation are baseless, says Mayor
 
 Indore: Mayor Malini Gaud refuted all allegations of the Congress and said a lot of development work has taken place in two years. “The Congress does not have any development agenda, so they are raising issues of no importance. We are doing what we have promised during our election campaign,” she said. She said that she ensured that a democratic system prevails in the city and IMC work was carried out properly. “In all municipal corporations, meetings are conducted with mutual understanding between the ruling party and the opposition. We have been following the same practice here. Meetings have been conducted in the past and will be conducted in future too,” she said.
 
 “We are building a smart Indore. Our focus is to speed up work of smart city. We are working hard to make this city a better place for residents, the Congress should cooperate with us rather than make baseless allegations,” Gaud said.
 
 
