AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad rural police have arrested five men while unearthing a police recruitment   being operated from the remote Kadrabad village here. Police said that while one of the five arrested was a candidate, the other four are suspected of involvement in similar police and government recruitment rackets across the state.

 Police said two of the accused,   and  , both from Kadrabad, had impersonated two candidates in the physical examination during recruitment for the   force held a couple of months ago. 
 
 The other two operators, Raju Nagre of Kadrabad and Datta Nalawade of Bhalgaon, had impersonated the same two candidates for the written exam. They had sneaked in a high-end iPhone in the exam hall and secretly sent snapshots of the question-paper to their accomplices outside. The accomplices obtained the answers from the internet and read them out to the impersonators. For this, the impersonators had carried a matchbox-sized device with a SIM card in their pockets and worn capsule-sized wireless earpieces.
 
 Police said the operators had charged each candidate Rs 2 lakh for the physical exam and Rs 4.5 lakh for the written test.
 
 The two candidates — Tejrao Sable, who has been arrested, and  , who is on the run — were recruited as constables in the Thane police force based on the physical and written exams. 
 
 The five arrested were produced before a court here on Thursday and remanded in police custody for five days. Police suspect the four operators used a similar modus operandi to help candidates during other recruitments in Mumbai city and other parts of the state.
 
 Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police Arti Singh told TOI that the four operators were friends and MPSC aspirants. “Charande and Shaikh, impersonating Sable and Rupekar respectively, had scored 90 and 91 marks out of 100 in the physical exam. Nagre and Nalawade had scored 80 and 81 marks out of 100 for Sable and Rupekar respectively in the written exam,” she said.
 
 Singh said the four operators were from economically weak backgrounds but were good at academics. “They have already cleared the MPSC preliminary exams with good marks and were preparing for the mains. One of their friends, who had fallen out with them, lodged the complaint following which they were arrested. We have charged them under sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation) and section 34 (common intention).
 
 Deputy superintendent of police   said, “The police are probing as to how the accused managed to sneak in mobile phones and other sophisticated devices especially when all candidates are thoroughly frisked before entering the exam hall. We will check if any policemen were involved in the racket.”
 
