BHUBANESWAR: The   has granted licence to only nine shops here to sell bhang. However, a number of   have been illegally peddling the green intoxicant, making a mockery of the excise and police officials. Such counters, dotting most lanes and by-lanes in the city, open their makeshift establishments in the evening. Using mortar and pestle, the vendors grind buds and leaves of 'bhang' into a paste and mix it with cheese for customers. 

 Some twitterati recently posted their comments on the official Twitter handle of the commissionerate police, expressing displeasure over poor enforcement activities by the government officials on illegal bhang vendors. "Cannot the commissionerate police and excise officials see open   in roadside cheese shops? I dont think the practice is legal," read a tweet.
 
 Others said the police only turn the heat on liquor and ganja peddlers. "Bhang is also a narcotic. The audacity of roadside cheese shops to sell bhang indicates that police and excise officials must have worked hand-in-glove with the vendors," read another tweet.
 
 Excise officials said they will start the crackdown. "We raided some shops, seized 'bhang' and registered cases against the vendors. We will do it again," said city excise inspector Debi Prasad Das. He, however, could not say how many cases were registered against the violators in the last one year. Police, which regularly seized marijuana from different places turned a blind eye too to the sale of bhang. "I will ask the inspectors-in-charge of all police stations to conduct raids and check if the cheese shops have valid licence," said DCP Satyabrata Bhoi. 
 
 Official sources a little more than 240 licenced 'bhang' shops exist in the state with Puri having maximum number of 40 counters. Every month, the excise department earns revenue of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh from all the 'bhang' shops across the state. Rampant sale of the intoxicant led to several drug-and-loot cases in the city. At least 20 people were rescued by railway police and commissionerate police in separate drug-and-loot incidents in the last four weeks. 
 
 While the railway police rescued 13 heavily drugged passengers from compartments of different trains, the rest were found either at Baramunda bus stand or auto-rickshaw stand outside the railway station. 
 
