CHENNAI: The number of exchange students at the   has risen from 90 in 2011 to 145 in 2016, a jump of 61% and an indication that the institute is improving its   and gaining global impetus. Given that the presence of international students and faculty is significant during the global ranking surveys, IIT-M is working on   and increasing its  .

 Be it the QS Rankings, the Times Rankings or the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) ranking, IIT-M has been climbing on the list over the years. At present, the institute has exchange students and visiting faculty that account for the international crowd on the campus. “The exchange student programme works in two ways. One, where the student visits a foreign university to pursue one semester (four months), and in exchange a student from that foreign university visits IIT-M,“ said dean of international and alumni affairs  . “The second possibility is for a student to visit IIT-M for research collaboration,“ he added.
 
 A majority of the international students come from Europe (Germany , France, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Denmark). “We also have students from Asia (China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia). Countries like Australia, Zimbabwe, Sweden and Finland have been active in sending their students of late,“ Nagarajan said.
 
 “Under the full time programmes, we have received two students (both Korean) who are doing their B Tech. From 2011 to 2016, students from Ethiopia, Romania and Mauritius have taken up M Tech, MS and PhD at IITM,“ he said.
 
 The institute is also improving on the number of international faculty on the campus. “The number of full time professors teaching on the campus is 10. The institute is also hosting nine visiting international faculty members who have come from Germany, Taiwan, the UK and USA. Recently, the MHRD had announced that IITs would be encouraged to recruit more  . IITM is in the process of implementing it,“ said Nagarajan.
 
 However, there are challenges IITs will face while re cruiting international faculty. One is a cultural barrier for faculty and the second concern would test the IITs' financial power to match the pay in foreign countries.
 
 “We would invite potential faculty members for a visit to get an understanding of the campus atmosphere before bringing them on board. And, about the salary, with the implementation of the recommendations of the seventh pay commission, we will be able to match the salary offered by most countries,“ said Nagarajan.
 
 That said, salaries offered in the US, the UK and Australian universities would be competitive for IITs.
 
