MYSURU: The   ( ) which had developed the  , is all set to handover the ORR to the   (NHAI) for maintenance. The ORR which is now being maintained by the civic body is expected to transfer the responsibility to NHAI by June.

 The 41.53 km of ORR which was constructed by Muda with a cost of around Rs 350 crore connects the major highways - Bengaluru Road, Bannur Road, Nanjangud Road, HD Kote Road, Hunsur Road and the T Narasipura Road and also minimizes the congestion within the city by diverting the traffic from the city area. 
 
 While the ORR has spurred the city growth as it created easy access, the annual maintenance of the ORR which come in crores has led the Muda authorities to hand over the maintenance to NHAI. 
 
 According to Muda officials, the maintenance works includes street lights, signal lights, destination sign boards, asphalting, developing greenery and others. As the annual maintenance of the ORR which reached to triple digits caused concern to the Muda, it decided to hand it over to NHAI. 
 
 After the Muda authorities explained the financial situation to the PWD and district minister HC Mahadevappa, a meeting was held with the NHAI authorities. The NHAI officials also conducted a inspection of the road, before agreeing to take up the responsibility. 
 
 Muda commissioner   told TOI that the annual maintenance of the ORR was around Rs 120 crore. “The electricity bill for the street lights itself was in crores. So, we decided to hand over the maintenance to NHAI. Minister HC Mahadevappa who heard our request, held meetings and conducted spot inspection with NHAI authorities and eased the transfer work,” he said. 
 
 Mahesh said that Muda would be able to hand over the maintenance work to NHAI on the provision that the ORR will connect the highways at six points. “The ORR which acts as a link road to highways, will meet the provision to allow the NHAI to take up the maintenance work. All the paper works have been ready and we are expecting that in a month the ORR will be handover to NHAI,” he said.
 
 
