NEW DELHI: The   told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that it is not pressing for full   for Delhi but insisted that the Lt Governor is bound to act on the advice of the cabinet.

 Appearing before a bench of Justices A K Sikri and R K Agrawal, senior advocate  , appearing for the Kejriwal government, made it clear at the outset that he was not challenging the Supreme Court’s verdict holding Delhi as a Union Territory.
 
 The apex court had in a 1996 judgment held “the Union Territory of Delhi is in a class by itself but is certainly not a state”.
 
 Subramaniam, however, said Delhi has a special status under the Constitution despite being a Union Territory and contended that a democratically elected government could not be deprived of the power to take and implement decisions for the welfare of people.
 
 AAP’s bone of contention is that the LG should not have the power to approve the Delhi government’s proposals and decisions and challenged the high court ruling upholding Raj Bhavan’s primacy in administering the capital.
 
 Outside the court,   sources clarified that the statehood demand was not being dropped and the court arguments were in the specific context of the case and the powers of the LG.
 
 Lack of due process has led to several decisions of the Delhi government being stalled, leading to a blame game with BJP which has said that the AAP government’s refusal to adhere to Constitutional procedures has resulted in poor governance. AAP, in turn, has accused the Centre of preventing it from functioning.
 
 Subramaniam said a Governor or an LG is bound to act on the aid and advice of an elected government in a cabinet form of governance and the NCT government could not be denied its right to frame policy. 
 
 He said under law Centre was allowed to deal with only issues relating to land, police and public order and other subjects were to be handled by NCT.
 
 Challenging the HC verdict, he said the court was wrong in holding that primacy in administering affairs rests with the LG and by extension, the Centre. 
 
 He said the high court order would result in the Union Cabinet sitting over the decision of NCT cabinet which was “inconceivable and never contemplated” in the Constitution. The LG cannot claim veto power over the decision of the elected government.
 
 The first round of legal battle between the Centre and AAP government went in favour of the Centre with the high court holding that CM or his ministers cannot issue orders without the LG’s approval and decisions must be routed through him. 
 
 The court had ruled that the LG was not bound by the “aid and advice“ of the Delhi cabinet on any matter.
 
 In its 194-page order, the high court had said it was of “the considered   that it is mandatory under the Constitutional scheme to communicate the decision of the Council of Ministers to the Lt Governor even in relation to matters in respect of which the power to make laws has been conferred on the legislative assembly and an order thereon can be issued only where the Lt Governor does not take a different view”.
 
 The arguments remained inconclusive and would resume on February 2.
 
 
