NAGPUR: In a setback to Nagpur University’s ( ) plans to conduct centralized admissions process ( ) for all its undergraduate and postgraduate courses (excluding professional faculties) from next academic year, the Maharashtra government asked its officials to stop it till further orders.

 University V-C SP Kane said they received a letter from Pune-based higher education director Dhanraj Mane recently, where he had directed all state universities to temporarily stop the process. “The government is coming out with a common software for conducting CAP. It would be conducted on the lines of engineering and medical admissions, as done by DTE and DMER, respectively. So, they’ve called on all universities to put the process on hold till then,” he told TOI.
 
 He, however, said that NU wouldn’t wait for government orders for long, due to usual delay in implementing any new system. “We will wait till February and then implement our own CAP. The modalities have already been framed by the panel constituted under pro-VC Pramod Yeole. We will anyhow conduct CAP for 2017-18 session, rather than waiting endlessly for the government.”
 
 Kane said CAP was must to curb malpractices by private colleges while admitting students. “It will also put brakes on exploitation of students and parents by colleges,” the V-C said. 
 
 The decision to conduct CAP for all UG and PG courses was taken after the government issued directives in this regard in October. Prior to that,   took a decision in this regard during its meeting in August, with a view to save the students from harassment of colleges and also to their hard-earned money.
 
 The decision came after an illegal admissions racket by Hinganghat-based RS   came to the fore. It was first reported in detail by TOI on August 17, highlighting that NU’s CAP would exclude engineering, medical, pharmacy and law courses.
 
 Heavy rush for admissions to general courses like BCom and BSc last year was another trigger behind CAP. NU had to twice appeal to the government to increase seats of top colleges to accommodate students, who throng these courses while showing a back to professional courses like engineering and pharmacy. However, only top colleges from the city received full admissions while lesser known located in rural areas were left in the lurch.
 
 
