CHENNAI: At least 54 high-end  , worth a few crores of rupees, are rusting at the  , as the   have neither returned them to the government nor are using them. A new   now costs between Rs 16.44 lakh and Rs 18.68 lakh.

 While at least 30 are covered under a thick layer of dust and rusting in the entire stilt area of the multi-storey high court museum building, about two dozen are at judges bungalows.
 
 “Both are against rules and norms,” highly placed sources told TOI. “First of all, the judges were allotted swanky new SUVs – Toyota Crysta – a few months ago only as replacement of the old Toyota Altis sedans. They were supposed to turn in their cars to the home (courts) department for reallocation for some other government duty, most probably by the public works department. Second, dumping even the surrendered vehicles to corrode on the court   instead of sending them to the government is nothing but criminal negligence involving public money.”
 
 Many judges have chosen to retain these cars as their second vehicle, saying that the new SUVs they were allotted yielded very poor mileage, said an official, adding that each judge was entitled to 200 litres of fuel a month. “They complain that the new SUVs give only about 6km per litre of petrol,” he said. At a recent meeting, a senior judge broached the topic and suggested that they hand over the vehicles to the government. It, however, went unheeded.
 
 Most of these sedans are now lying uncared for in the stilt part of a high court building, and are on a fast lane to ruin. Some of them already sport flat tyres and broken headlamps. What is most prominent in almost every vehicle is the round, red-gold, metal insignia with ‘Judge, Madras High Court’ written on it, fixed to both the rear and front bumpers.
 
 Though aware of such a large number of luxury vehicles going waste, exposed to the elements on the campuses of high court as well as the judicial academy, the government is in a bind, not knowing whether it should demand the return of the replaced vehicles or simply take possession of them by force.
 
 Unlike the state government’s transport or public departments which have trained and qualified people to keep track of both number as well as driving condition of vehicles under their custody, the Madras high court has no professional wherewithal to maintain its vehicles. “A seniormost driver is assigned the job of ‘head driver’, and he by his own ‘experience’ takes care of the vehicles. He reports to a section officer, assistant registrar and then the registrar. None of them are experts either by education or by training,” rued a senior judicial officer.
 
 
