KOLKATA: Even before   peaked, the city recorded its first death due to suspected   on Tuesday, which witnessed a searing afternoon. As the   touched 33.6 degrees Celsius, a gardener in Salt Lake collapsed while working at a CL Block nursery. 

 Fanibhushan Mondal, the 55-year-old gardener, complained of severe chest pain and presently, suffered a cardiac arrest. He was declared dead at  . 
 
 Tuesday was indeed hot, but it did not log the highest temperature of the season so far and things would get more uncomfortable over the next few weeks, warned meteorologists. But the sudden rise in temperature in the afternoon was enough to cause heat stroke in some, experts said.
 
 With no low-pressure troughs or high-pressure zones in sight, south Bengal is headed for a dry and warm period. The mercury has been on a slow rise since last week, after a relatively pleasant March. But Tuesday’s afternoon heat was enough to make Kolkatans puff and pant. Though the mercury didn’t climb very high, the real feel temperature touched 39.1 degrees at noon. 
 
 Real feel is an index, which describes what the temperature actually feels like. It’s a combination of factors, such as temperature, wind, sunshine intensity, cloudiness, precipitation and elevation. After reaching 39.1°C, the real feel temperature dipped to a more bearable 35 degrees.
 
 Heat strokes might take place even at moderately high temperatures, said Debashish Saha, a consultant at AMRI Hospitals. “Heat strokes are triggered when the hypothalamus fails to regulate body temperature. While a perfectly healthy individual is unlikely to be affected in moderate heat, the elderly, the malnourished and those taking diuretics for high blood pressure are vulnerable. The latter makes the plasma volume in the blood stream shrink. Exposure to sun may cause a heat-stroke in such patients,” Saha explained.
 
 The dry, warm weather is likely to persist in Kolkata till the first week of April. “We are not ruling out the possibility of an occasional thundershower, though. But the maximum temperature will continue to hover around the 34-35 degrees,” said G K Das, director,   (RMC).
 
 
