NEW DELHI: The SC told BJP member   on Friday to show “some concrete documentary proof” of former FM P Chidambaram’s role in alleged illegality in permitting Malaysian firm   to acquire 100% stake in   through FDI in 2006.

 “Issuing notice on your petition is no big deal. We can issue notice to the smallest and the biggest or the highest. But we do so only when we are satisfied that there is at least some prima facie proof of involvement,” a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice N V Ramana and Justice D Y Chandrachud said. Swamy exuded confidence that he would produce documentary proof to show Chidambaram’s role in “inappropriately and illegally” permitting Maxis to acquire 100% stake in Aircel.
 
 He added that his petition had nothing to do with the discharge of the Maran brothers in the Aircel-Maxis deal case. “What I want is a probe into Chidambaram’s role for the two-fold illegalities committed by him. One, no foreign firm was permitted to acquire 100% stake in an Indian company, whether directly or indirectly. Two, the total deal was worth Rs 3,500 crore and Chidambaram could not have accorded   permission without mandatorily sending it to Cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA),” he said.
 
 Swamy said the regulations prohibited the FM from approving FDI of more than Rs 600 crore and he should have sent Maxis’s proposal for CCEA clearance. 
 
 The bench asked, “Was the then finance minister aware of this regulation? Do you have any documentary proof that he was aware of this?” Swamy said the ex-FM was interrogated by the   in 2014 in this regard, and the CBI coined a new terminology that Maxis acquired 100% economic interest in Aircel.
 
 “The CBI... It must inform the court about the progress of investigation in the case,” he said.
 
 The bench said, “You must bring some document to show that the ex-FM had knowledge that Maxis was acquiring 100% stake in Aircel directly and indirectly.” Swamy said Maxis had admitted this fact to the Malaysian stock exchange. But the bench told Swamy that it would require documentary proof.
 
