HYDERABAD: Satellite imageries of buildings in the city will come handy for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in identifying illegal constructions. An app is being developed by the   (NRSC) exclusively for   to locate  , said officials.

 To begin with, the civic body has decided to utilize   (NRSC) imageries to process   (BRS) applications. Bhuvan is ISRO's Geo portal that provides visuals at high resolution. These imageries will help town planning authorities to identify whether a particular building exists prior to October 28, 2015, which was the cut-off date for buildings that were raised and apply for regularizations under the BRS. Many builders of unauthorized structures claim to have constructed buildings prior to October, 2015 and applied for regularization under the BRS. Some developers informed courts that the GHMC cannot slap notices when they applied under the BRS.
 
 "The corporation has procured imageries of Greater Hyderabad from NRSC for three different periods i.e October, 2015, April, 2016 and November, 2016. Town planning wing will now compare the city's existing topography i.e. buildings of October, 2015 to know whether a particular building exists prior October, 2015 or not," GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy told TOI. 
 
 The NRSC is developing a mobile app for GHMC's town planning, said officials. The town planning staff will go to buildings that applied under the BRS. The data will be analysed with imageries procured based on longitude and latitudes of the locations. It has decided to take up cases on building violations and claims applied under the BRS. "The NRSC staff will also help in analysing the height, number of floors and setbacks of these building.
 
  Action will be initiated against errant builders based on the date," chief city planner said. GHMC had decided to take stringent action against builders and developers in the wake of  . To process the applications, all zonal commissioners and deputy municipal commissioners have been given the BRS data. 
 
 GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy reportedly directed officials to procure satellite imageries every three months from NRSC to check illegal constructions across the city. The municipal administration department will use satellite imageries of other important municipal corporations such as Warangal, Nizamabad and Karimnagar in the state.
 
 
 
