CHENNAI: The   has searched and raided since Wednesday three infrastructure companies owned by a  . The firms figure in a   panel that has bagged several major projects.

 “We have so far seized Rs 41 lakh in cash and 22 kg of gold. Our officials also seized several documents relating to property deals in many areas. The searches were conducted in several places in Chennai,” a senior I-T official told TOI, seeking anonymity. 
 
 This search on the firms based in Ashok Nagar in Chennai is the second of the state highways department that has come under the I-T department radar. Last November, sand mining baron and highways contractor Shekar Reddy’s premises were raided in Chennai and Vellore. Huge amounts of cash and gold were seized from his premises. Searches were conducted in the offices and residences of state health minister C Vijaya Baskar and former chief secretary Rama Mohana Rao after a diary was seized from Reddy. 
 
 “We received information that the contractor registered a property worth Rs 26 crore for Rs 10 crore. Based on this information, we found that the contractor owned three companies that undertake highway department contracts,” said the official. Following this, searches began on the three premises on Wednesday night. 
 
 The three companies of the contractor are involved in laying roads, culverts and implementing other projects of the highways department, headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for the last six years. “We came to know that the three companies have won major contracts for laying roads and culverts. As of now we have not established any connection with Shekar Reddy though both were on the highways department panel,” said the official. 
 
 One of the companies is based in Ashok Nagar and is the service provider of civil, bridges and road construction contracts. A second company deals with steel plates and the third deals with imports of earth moving machinery spares. All the three firms have offices in Ashok Nagar. 
 
 “The contractor and others involved in the business will be called for questioning in the coming days to corroborate the property documents seized. We will also ask him about the source for the cash and gold seized. Now that the department is going after benami holders as per the Anti-Benami Act, we will scrutinise documents to ascertain if there are benami transactions. In such a case, the properties will be seized and a penalty imposed,” said the official. The source said it was likely that the contractor might be a benami or have benamis. Attempts to reach the contractor proved futile. 
 
 
