JAISALMER: Border Security Force (BSF)   (DG)   in an exclusive interview to TOI said that Union home ministry has approved all  . This means that the jawans guarding the international border adjoining Rajasthan and other places will get clean and safe drinking water. Sharma was in Jaisalmer on Monday. He said that soon, process regarding this matter will begin and   (BOPs) will be connected with PHED pipelines.

 Sharma said that during the recent visit of   to Jaisalmer the problem of drinking water was raised. At present water is supplied through tankers to BOPs and at a few places water is supplied through pipelines. There is no problem of water at BOPs, he said. When asked about purchasing new sand scooter for desert areas Sharma said the process is on.
 
 Talking about the international border adjoining Gujarat, he said new floating border outpost will be purchased for Sir Creek and south coastal area in addition to attack aircraft. This will help in controlling intrusion of fishermen. Similarly, for swampy areas of Rann of Kutch new all-terrain vehicles are being purchased. He added that the Union home ministry has given its approval for the same.
 
 The DG also said that in the last few days militants’ efforts to enter India through J&K have proved futile. However, they are more active during snowfall. He said Central Armed Paramilitary Force (CAPF) should have a tribunal and the home ministry is considering it. BSF aviation wing is being strengthened and the process to buy unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and new helicopters for guarding the border is being considered.
 
 Home minister during his earlier visit to Jaisalmer had said that border with Pakistan would be completely sealed by 2018. As a pilot project eight foreign companies are trying to seal the border in Jammu through latest technology and new gadgets. Later, this process will be started in states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab etc.
 
 To reduce stress among BSF jawans, yoga for 45 minutes has been made compulsory and directions have been issued in this regard.
 
