NEW DELHI: A decades-old bar against colour blind people from becoming doctors is set to be removed with a Supreme Court-appointed committee recommending to the court that the current discrimination on the basis of colour vision deficiency ( ) must be done away with.

 Holding that the   ( ) rule preventing colour blind people from taking up medical studies is “regressive”, the apex court had set up the committee in March this year, comprising experts from the fields of genetics, ophthalmology, psychiatry and medical education to review the regulation and analyse issues regarding CVD and the norms in other countries.
 
 The committee, whose report has been filed by MCI’s counsel Gaurav Sharma, agreed with the apex court’s views and has said that CVD should not be an absolute bar as it is a common problem and did not significantly impact a person’s ability to practise medicine. 
 
 The report said there should not be any restriction either at the stage of admission, or at completion of study and registration as a medical practitioner.
 
 “There are many reasons why doctors with CVD may perform as well as those with  . Firstly, the diagnostic and treatment process is not solely reliant on the ability to perceive colours. There are many other cues from history of illness and examination that might be utilised to compensate for handicaps resulting from CVD. Doctors with CVD can also overcome their difficulties by carrying out a more thorough diagnostic assessment and taking the help of other colleagues,” it said.
 
 In its 35-page report, the committee said India is perhaps the only country where colour blind people are denied admission in medical colleges. CVD is not considered as a criterion for rejection in US, UK and other western countries.
 
 While setting up the committee, a bench headed by Justice   had said, “With the progress of science, expansion of many vistas of knowledge, inclusive culture, having regard to inclusive society and respect for differently-abled persons, it is obligatory on the part of MCI to take a progressive measure so that an individual suffering from   may not feel like an alien to the concept of equality.”
 
 Severity of CVD might also be factored in while easing the bar for colour blind people as the report noted that “though the risk of medical errors may still exist, particularly among those with more severe CVD, the extent and seriousness of these errors is not clearly evident from the existing research”.
 
 “As per current international practices, there is no policy of regulating entry of medical aspirants to study and practice of the medical profession based on colour vision deficiency. There are also no identified or mentioned practice restrictions,” the report said.
 
 The committee has noted that there is no identifiable compromise in the abilities of a clinical practitioner with CVD though certain tasks pertaining to specific fields of higher studies and super-specialisation might need closer evaluation.
 
 But colour corrective contact lenses or spectacles may be considered to assist the person, if and when necessary.
 
