BENGALURU: The Congress government in Karnataka, already on a sticky wicket given the raft of graft charges against it, looks even more in peril given BJP’s stunning showing in Uttar Pradesh.

 A   victory in UP was always going to make it difficult for the Congress in the assembly elections next year, but the sheer size and scale of the win has cast a pall over the ruling government. “We’re just not matching up to the BJP. Their onslaught is too much. If the Congress high command continues with the same lackadaisical attitude towards the few states it is left with, it can forget about winning the 2018 assembly polls in Karnataka,” a party insider told STOI.
 
 BJP, with elections in mind, is already upping the ante by trying to embarrass the Siddaramiah government with serious corruption allegations. According to Congress party sources, bringing up bribery charges, which may or may not stick in the end, was part of BJP’s game plan of keeping the Congress leadership in Karnataka on a defensive mode; expending energy fighting charges rather than on governance. 
 
 Chief minister   buckling under pressure and backing out of schemes and projects, announced with great fanfare, in the wake of criticism, has resulted in him being projected as a weak, instead of as an aggressive leader, they maintained.
 
 Be it the legislation to ban superstitious beliefs or lavish weddings or the controversial proposal to build a steel bridge, sources said the CM should have stood his ground and defended these decisions. “If this trend continues, potential investors in Karnataka may prefer to wait for a new government to be in place next year rather than take a risk with this Congress government. All this could result in Siddaramaiah becoming a lame duck CM,’’ sources said.
 
 Hinting that the top-down leadership era is vanishing in the Congress, AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh admitted the need to build regional leaders. “We need to build new leadership in states. We have to take decisive action to build the party where we do not have strong regional leaders,’’ he added.
 
 Endorsing him, a Congress functionary said the party needs to push the youth agenda in Karnataka. “We need to form teams of young leaders and send them across the state to speak on the government’s programmes. Nobody knows about the Congress government as Siddaramaiah is underselling his governance,’’ he added.
 
 Reacting to the five states’ results, Siddaramaiah said: “The BJP’s victory in UP is primarily due to the Hindutva agenda. It was their biggest weapon. With communally emotional speeches which spoke of graveyards, the BJP has come to power. It is not a victory due to  's popularity. If there was a Modi wave, it should have worked in Punjab and Goa.’’
 
 Energy minister D K Shiva Kumar did not want to buy the theory of a BJP comeback in Karnataka. “The results reveal that people were looking for a change as they have not seen the BJP rule. As far as Karnataka is concerned, the BJP cannot have a run here as people have seen its governance.’’ he added.
 
 Union minister H N Ananth Kumar, naturally, differed, saying the basic drawback of Siddaramaiah was his “callous attitude’’ to issues. “The UP poll verdict has energised the BJP in Karnataka and we’ll win with a three-fourths majority,’’ he said.
 
 
