BHOPAL:   can leapfrog from a laggard (BIMARU) state to a progressive in one go if the  .

 The   of Good Governance and Policy Analysis has suggested that 56 lakh people   (BPL) in Madhya Pradesh can graduate to   (APL) without any additional financial burden. All the government has to do is to fix the present system of subsidy and entitlement  , inefficiency and corruption.
 
 Idea is to compile the amount of subsidies and disbursements provided under different flagship schemes of state and Union government and transfer its total amount in the bank accounts of beneficiaries preferably in the beginning of a financial year.
 
 The calculation shows in case of MP, if resources are pooled and distributed collectively at one go the annual income per household with a family of four, would amount to Rs 82,656, which is around 6,800 per month. In 30 schemes, the state and Union government disburses a sum of Rs 46,255.37 crore yearly.
 
 The institute conducted the study on viable effective alternative for poverty reduction. Principal advisor of the institute, Mangesh Tyagi has presented the poverty reduction strategy paper and submitted it to the chief minister’s office and other departments concerned, including the planning commission.
 
 Tyagi said such a model is successful in several Latin American and other countries, but not in India. Of the 56 lakh people under the below poverty line in MP, 41 lakhs reside in rural MP and 15 lakhs live in cities.
 
 Average monthly income criterion of BPL in rural area is less than Rs 700 and for urban area less than Rs 1,200, he said, adding that if implemented, MP would be first state in the country to do so. 
 
 Critics of the proposal argue that unconditional transfer of resources to poor beneficiaries may prompt a person to indulge in alcoholism and other vices, but the surveys and studies conducted in MP concludes that on getting money in lump sum, a person prioritize his expenses wisely, Tyagi added. 
 
 Officials point, financial infrastructure has almost got ready in the country for cash transfers. Similarly, Aadhar has been issued to crores of citizens, as mark of their identity. It can be leveraged as a tool of governance for delivery of subsidies. Having a bank account has also been facilitated a great deal by opening of bank accounts in Jan Dhan Yojana.
 
 Putting money in bank accounts will also help banks offer various financial services, including credit, insurance, savings and pensions.
 
