AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to use protected and sanctuary land for construction of the Kheroj to Ambaji state highway-9. A section of the 21-km stretch of protected land will pass through Balaram sanctuary.

 A proposal seeking permission for using forest land for road widening and construction has been sent to the standing committee of the   and even the  .
 
 The proposal says that around 13.49 hectare forest and protected land will be needed for the highway. Of the 13.49-hectare land needed, around 12.30 hectares fall in the protected area and another 1.18 hectares is Balaram sanctuary land.
 
 An official said that this is not the first time that the state government would be acquiring forest land putting wildlife at risk. In the past, too, a large chunk of land was diverted for canal work inside the sanctuary area, the official said.
 
 In 2016, the State Board for Wildlife had approved a 23-km Narmada canal branch from Suvai to Chobari in Kutch district. It had also given its go ahead for a 289.32-km-long 765 KV high tension line between Bhuj and Deesa. In another case, a 10-km-stretch of high-tension power line, to be installed by  , will pass through sanctuary areas in Kutch and Dasada.
 
 Officials said that the four-lane road passing through the sanctuary will put at risk the existence of  . The state is now left with only 293 sloth bears. 
 
 “Even a road passing close to the sanctuary will prove risky but here the road passes through the sanctuary,” an official said.
 
 He further said that Ambaji being a place of pilgrimage, the number of visitors is also very high. Hence this road will disturb wildlife.
 
 Officials of the road and building department said that this will be the main road connecting Himmatnagar and Ambaji. 
 
 The same road will link up with Ahmedabad also. The road from Himmatnagar to Ambaji will have four lanes, the officials said.
 
 A senior officer said that the department wanted the road to be diverted away from the sanctuary but as the existing road passes through the sanctuary, the government decided not to shift it.
 
 Senior forest officials refused to comment. Forest and environment minister   was not available for his comments.
 
