BHOPAL: Hundreds of villagers, affected by the increase in   dam height, have joined the jal satyagraha at Chikalda in Madhya Pradesh to protest the forced displacement.

 The protesters have been standing in waist-deep water since Saturday at the village of Chikalda which is located between the border of Dhar and Barwani district — around 350 km from the state capital. Asking the Madhya Pradesh government to be “honest and provide correct figures”,   Bachao activist, Medha Patekar said, “The state government has again started manipulating the figures — the number of people affected by raising the height and the rehabilitation measures. The government should be honest in the providing details to the Supreme Court on Monday.”
 
 A special leave petition (SLP) will come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Monday. In addition, a petition filed by some citizens who visited the valley and found the relief and rehabilitation to be “pathetic” will also be discussed.
 
 The Supreme Court ordered resettlement of those affected by July 31. Threat of submergence by Narmada water stares at the people of over 140 villages of the districts of Khargone, Alirajpur, Dhar and Barwani
 
 The people of the affected villages had started an indefinite strike against the government’s move on Thursday. Devram  , a farmer participating in the jal satyagraha said, “All the canals in Gujarat are flooded after heavy rains, what is the hurry in drowning us without rehabilitation.” Another protester,  , said, “We are not scared by the presence of police. We are left with nothing as our fertile land has been snatched.”
 
 Commenting on the chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s announcement of making Nisarpur into an “ideal town”, where road and bridges will be built to access areas that will become islands, Patkar said, “It is a cruel joke on the people of the village who are waiting for rehabilitation for decades.”
 
 Activists from 29 countries including eminent American linguist, social critic, and political activist Noam Chomsky extended support to the project of the project. The activists have singed an online petition seeking a comprehensive re-survey of project affected people.
 
 
