PANAJI
 It’s been long since Goa produced a women international footballer.
 
  Gone are the days when Goan players were automatic choices in the national team; the recent SAFF Cup winning squad had no player from Goa but things could change soon as a young footballer makes heads turn.
  
    guided Rosary Higher Secondary School,  , to the final of the recently-concluded Reliance Foundation Youth Sports National   Championships in Mumbai, and her performance is attracting attention.
  
  For a start, the teenager from Chandor is already on the radar of a Mumbai-based team but she wants to go far beyond. For someone who has already represented India in the three age categories, it’s the big break that she is looking out for.
  
  “I am longing to play for the Indian senior team. It will be a great honour to represent the country. I need to work on my mistakes and be optimistic. Most importantly, I need to be firm and concentrate on my goal,” said Anline, who was adjudged as the best player of the Goa leg.
  
  “I will take up football seriously and want to have a career in the game. I will complete my studies and also concentrate on football simultaneously,” added Anline, who has just answered her 12th commerce preparatory examinations.
  
  Anline’s performance in the Reliance Foundation Youth Sports National Football Championships in Mumbai was appreciated by all those who watched her play. She, along with Akshata Patil -- who finished runner-up for the Golden Boot award with 13 goals – helped Rosary top Group A with three wins from as many matches. But their dream run in the senior girl’s category was shattered in the summit clash with a solitary goal defeat against Group B winners, Fr Agnel Multipurpose School, Mumbai. Anline played a crucial role in midfield and also scored five goals in the tournament.
  
  Initially, athletics was Anline’s sport but she gradually fell in love with football. The sad demise of her cousin Angela Gomes -- an excellent footballer -- inspired her passion for the beautiful game.
  
  “Angela was a very good football player. I was very young when I watched her play. She was versatile and could play in midfield and as forward. Her movement, skills and command was an inspiration to all,” said Anline.
  
  She was introduced to football at age six by coaches Roque Cardozo and Augustine Antao, who honed her skills at Fatima Convent HS, Margao, and since then she has not looked back.
  
  The youngster has already represented India at the junior level. She secured a first-place finish in 2012 with the India U-13 team in the AFC tournament in Sri Lanka. The following year, Anline was vice-captain of the India U-14 team which topped the AFC Girls Regional Championship in Sri Lanka and was then promoted to the India U-16 team for the AFC Qualifying round in Bangladesh.
  
  Rosary HSS coach Osvaldo da Costa believes Anline holds promise for the future.
  
  "She has a bright future. She only has to work more on her shot accuracy,” said Osvaldo, an accomplished footballer himself.
