BENGALURU: Nearly two lakh students of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) who have been waiting for the results of the odd semester exams they wrote last December can heave a sigh of relief. The results are expected to be declared within a fortnight.

 Thousands of final-year students who had applied to foreign universities have been left in the lurch as the university has delayed the result announcement by at least two months. Typically, the varsity announces the results of the December exams in February. However, the process was deferred this time due to the addition of crash courses last year, which increased the quantum of work for evaluators, said  , vice-chancellor, VTU.
 
 On April 12, the varsity announced results of the crash courses, which left students of regular courses jittery. Rajesh K, student of a city college, is awaiting his seventh semester results. “I had applied to a foreign university for postgraduation in March but my application was rejected because I could not furnish the results of the seventh semester exam,” he rued.
 
  D, who recently landed a job at an IT sector company, has assured her employers that she will submit her university marksheets and other documents soon. “I bagged the job last month but never imagined the results would be announced so late. When I checked the varsity website, I got to know only the crash course results were out. I’m worried about losing my job,” said an anxious Reshma. 
 
 Kiran Kumar, a student pursuing BE, said, “We have been trying to get an answer from the university but they maintain the results will be announced soon. We need an exact date.”
 
 The university has assured the students it will begin announcing tresults for regular BE courses in the next two or three days. “We will first announce the seventh and eighth semester results and subsequently declare the rest. The entire process will be completed in 12 days,” said Karisiddappa. Some students had appeared for eighth semester back papers in December. 
 
 The VC added that this time, the varsity has done away with third-party evaluation and has conducted the entire evaluation process with in-house resources. “We have amended our system of evaluation and bar-coded all the papers for a more transparent procedure. This is one of the reasons for the delay,” he said. 
 
 Will issue certificates on the spot 
 
 We understand that many students have been inconvenienced because of the delay in announcing results. Students who require markscards and eligibility certificates on an urgent basis can contact the university on Monday (April 17). If these students come to the university in person, we will issue them the required documents on the spot as well
 
 Karisiddappa, vice-chancellor, VTU
 
