AHMEDABAD: Teachers who examine the answer sheets of exams conducted by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) are not paid as well as teachers who assess answer sheets of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams for class 10 and 12.

 CBSE data indicates that teachers who assess papers for class 10 get Rs 25 worth of remuneration per paper and for class 12, they get Rs 30 as payment per paper. Against this, teachers who examine papers for GSHSEB class 10 and 12 science stream exams get Rs 6 per paper while those examining papers of class 12 general stream get Rs 6.50 per paper. This is clearly less than half of what CBSE examiners are paid.
 
 It may be noted that each CBSE student pays Rs 500 as examination fee for class 10 exams and Rs 750 for class 12 exams. The central board has also increased the fee paid to the supervisor from Rs 100 to Rs 200 for each three-hour session.
 
 That apart,   also get Rs 150 as conveyance reimbursement and Rs 75 for refreshments. The total amount paid to a CBSE examiner comes to a minimum of Rs 425. Furthermore, to maintain quality, CBSE examiners are supposed to assess a minimum of 25-30 papers per day. Further, the head examiner is paid an additional remuneration of Rs 1,000.
 
 Against this, the GSHSEB charges Rs 270 as exam fee from class 10 students and Rs 330 for class 12 board examinees. Moreover, GSHSEB pays Rs 75 for conveyance and refreshments to each teacher. That apart, travelling allowance and dearness allowance worth Rs 80 for local teachers and Rs 240 for outstation teachers is also paid.
 
 While the state board’s examination fees are nearly half of the total fees, teachers who examine papers are also paid less. Official sources said that the quality of paper assessment is often compromised in state board exams precisely because teachers are poorly paid.
 
 In the past, Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Sangh has made several representations in the past to the board officials but no action has been taken. They have voiced concerns about raising amount paid for examining a paper to ensure improvement in quality. In fact, instead of increasing remuneration, govt officials often tend to reduce it.
 
