The Madurai archdiocese of the   has come out in support of jallikattu, observing that it is the identity of Tamil culture not bound by religious boundaries but a festival of the working class. In a statement, archbishop Antony Pappusamy said that India is a country of diversity with multiple cultures, which is her beauty. "Jallikattu, as identity of Tamil people, should be protected and banning it is clamping down of cultural rights of Tamil people. Jallikattu is not a matter of bulls alone, but is intertwined with the cultural pride of the people of the state," he said. 

 Medical camp held in RTO office: As a part of the Road Safety Week celebration, road transport department officials here conducted a free health check-up for those who visited the North RTO office at   on Friday. More than 200 drivers, learners and instructors from driving schools and public underwent general health check-up and eye check-up at the camp. Five people were advised to undergo eye surgery and 58 were told to wear spectacles. Joint transport commissioner Madurai range Balan inaugurated the camp. Doctors from Apollo and   took part.
 
 Safety seminar held at railway division: The Madurai division conducted a safety seminar on Friday as part of ‘Safety Awareness Drive' from January 5 to February 5. Divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar Garg stressed on the need to achieve ‘Zero Accident' objective. "The safety directorate of the railway board is organising safety seminars at various places in the country to interact with grassroots-level railway staff, who are engaged in train operations, so as to find out their problems in implementing the safety related orders and to inculcate a work culture built on high-level of safety consciousness. Seminars, such as this, will provide a platform to learn from each other's experiences," he said. Violation of safety rules will cause accidents, leading to loss of life, damage to railway property and slowing down of train operations, the official added.
 
