 is not a film novice. The Mangaluru hudugi is a popular face in   cinema, having started her career with  , which did 100-days at the box office. She has debuted in Telugu, she is working on her second Tamil project, and is also a few films old in Sandalwood. Currently, Chirashree is awaiting the release of her next, Huliraaya, which she believes will give her   film career a boost. In a chat with Bangalore Times, the actress tells us about her film journey, working on   and more.
“I had acting aspirations when I was in school, and mustered the courage to broach the subject with my mother and brother when I was in 2nd PU. My brother was not enthusiastic about my choice, but my mother supported me. About a year later, I auditioned for a Tulu film, which I was selected for. While I was working on that film, I was signed up for another, Pavitra, which turned out to be my debut film and had a 100-day run at the box office,” she says.
 Her Kannada film break happened after she moved to Bengaluru, with a role in Upendra’s Kalpana 2. “Director R Ananth Raju was in Mangaluru on a location hunt, which was when casting agents told him about me. I got the role almost immediately. Udumba happened thereafter, but Huliraaya will be my next release. The call to meet director   for Huliraaya happened when the production manager of Pavitra referred me. Balu (Nagendra), the hero, was also there and Aravind asked us to read a few lines, which he said worked for the character. He then chose me,” explains the actress.
 All that Chirashree reveals about her role is that like Balu’s character, she plays someone from the jungle. “I play an innocent kaadu hudugi, who doesn’t know anything about life outside her immediate surroundings. I don’t have many lines in the film and much of my acting had to be expressed in my body language and especially through my eyes,” Chirashree says.
 Her portions, adds the actress, were primarily shot in actual forests, which was scary. “First of all, we were shooting in forests, and to add to that Balu was totally involved in the character and would randomly shout, sing and climb trees. Initially, I was quite taken aback by his behaviour and it took me a couple of days to get used to the fact that he was just living his character. Overall, though, it was good fun working with him and Aravind,” she signs off. 
 
