PATNA: The JD (U) has deferred its plan to review its stand on   of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, as its president and Bihar CM   is all set to share dais with his arch political rival PM   at Gandhi Maidan on Thursday. The PM will be here to participate in the main function to mark 350th birth anniversary of 10th  .

 Earlier, the JD (U) had announced that Nitish Kumar would take a final call on the issue of supporting the Centre’s decision of demonetisation after completion of 50 days of note ban on December 30. However, the party is yet to come out with any official statement on the issue.
 
 On Thursday, Modi and Nitish will be sharing dais in Bihar after a gap of almost nine-and-a-half months. The two had shared dais in Patna and Hajipur on March 12 last year when the PM had arrived here to participate in centenary celebration of the Patna high court and to attend a railway programme at Hajipur where he had termed Nitish as his ‘dear friend’.
 
 It will be the first visit of PM to Bihar after the enforcement of total prohibition in the state on April 5 last year. Since then, Nitish has been urging the PM to enforce Bihar-like prohibition in entire country or at least in the BJP-ruled states.
 
 On being asked as to why JD (U) has not come out with its stand on demonetisation even after December 30, party’s national spokesperson K C Tyagi took alibi of the ongoing ‘Prashotasava’ at Patna and ‘Kalchakra’ at Bodh Gaya. “Nitish ji is deeply engaged with successful hosting of   and Kalchakra. There are threats to both the religious congregations from certain rebel groups. Nitish ji has to remain vigilant to ensure peaceful conduct of both the mass gatherings,” Tyagi told TOI over phone from Delhi on Wednesday.
 
 He said the departure of international pilgrims attending the Kalchakra would be completed by January 15. “After that, the JD (U) president will consult other senior party functionaries on the issue of note ban. The party may come out with its stand on note ban only after January 15,” Tyagi said. 
 
 
