HYDERABAD: Noting that mosquito repellents like Hit and   used in households do not fall under the definition of pesticides and insecticides, used by farmers to protect their crops from pests, the Hyderabad High Court has dismissed a batch of petitions filed by   and   and Ms S C  , which were urging the court to treat their products on a par with pesticides.

 There is an economic reason behind the pleas of these companies. The authorities under VAT Act in Hyderabad had issued them notices to pay tax at 14.5 per cent and had even imposed penalties on them for not paying the tax as mandated by law.
 
 Challenging several such assessment orders and penalty orders pertaining to the issue from 2007 to 2014, these companies had approached the high court. Their principal contention is that since pesticides used in the farming sector are taxed at four per cent only, they too should be taxed at this rate because what they manufacture are also insecticides and pesticides. The only difference is that the pesticides used in farms fall under Schedule IV, Entry 20 of the VAT Act, and mosquito repellents come under a residuary category.
 
 The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice M  , which heard the pleas of the compani es and the counsel for the tax authorities, held that the argument of the mosquito repellent manufacturers was not acceptable. “Their goods are not pesticides or insecticides that fall within the ambit of Entry 20. The companies' contention that it is also classifiable under Entry 20, even if it were to fall under the residuary entry, does not therefore merit acceptance. Household insecticides do not fall under Entry 20 and are taxable only under the residuary entry in Schedule V of VAT Act,“ the bench said and dismissed the pleas of the manufacturers.
 
 Earlier, Telangana sales tax and VAT appellate tribunal held that the benefits given to goods used for agricultural purposes cannot be extended to mosquito repellents used for household purposes.The bench upheld the contention of the tribunal.
 
