NAGPUR: The lawns of Vishnuji Ki Rasoi, Bajaj Nagar, were filled with giggles and laughter on Friday evening. ‘Murkhancha Bazaar,’ a   was organized on the occasion of Holi by celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar and   for public, as held every year.

 City poets Sana Pandit, Sumati Wankhede, Anuradha Hawaldar, Milind Deshpande and Avinash Bagde, along with Vidhnesh Joshi from Pune presented an array of Hindi and  . Smita Khangai anchored the programme.
 
 ‘Japaani garden ka kya main kahu, sharam sharam pe aai, aage bol,’ was one line from Bagde’s poem, which he wrote to describe Nagpur. Sumati Wankhede’s poem spoke about former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee coming in her dream. Joshi wrote a title track for the event, combining his experiences of the city and observations while coming to Nagpur from Pune.
 
 Deshpande narrated a poem ‘rakhi’ as a pun, referring to the festival and actor  , and wove his poem around it. Some of the lines of his poem were, ‘We used to check the calendar earlier, now we switch on the TV. We used to hold out hands, now we lean to show our cheeks. Earlier, we would be excited, now we open a bottle of champagne. We used to buy new clothes, now be become unconscious of our clothes’. Pandit’s poem was composed on Vishnu Manohar, on whom she said also wrote a book. The programme had two rounds of poems.
 
 Hawaldar’s poem, ‘Bichara navra’ made several in the audience laugh loud as it infused women indiosyncracies and the helplessness of a husband. Bagde’s line ‘Pyaar kariye concession rate mein’ also had the audience in splits. He followed it up with a ghazal, ‘Chikne ghado mein paani daala na kijiye’. Wankhede narrated a poem she wrote on a party worker whose ‘neta’ has changed parties, by implying that the watch had stopped working and the lotus was blooming.
 
 The event ended with Manohar reciting the famous Marathi dialogue from the movie ‘Natsamarat’, an adaptation of Shakespeare’s ‘To be or not to be’. Manohar repeated the same dialogue by replacing the theme with dieting, evoking a thunderous applause from the audience.
 
