New Delhi:   of the Haryana-based Ram Karan gang were nabbed after a shootout near a mall in west Delhi in the early hours of Sunday. 

  The four men were on their way to kill a rival gang member. They surrendered after a gun battle during which a dozen rounds were exchanged by the police and the criminals. 
 
  The criminals have committed   in Haryana in the past two years and were wanted in several cases of extortion. The men- identified as Sushil, Amit, Sunil and Ramesh Mesha-were travelling in a stolen Toyota Fortuner when they were intercepted at a picket near Subhash Nagar, said special commissioner Dependra Pathak. 
 
 "They opened fire at the cops and tried to ram through the barricade, but their SUV got stuck. While firing, the gun of one of the criminals got jammed after a bullet got stuck in the barrel. The cops overpowered them while the others were helping him. Three pistols, bullets and 32 mobile phones have been seized from them," said DCP (west) Vijay Kumar.
 
 The men admitted to being involved in the murder of gangster Sandeep Badwasania. Ram Karan had a falling out with   in 2015 over sharing extortion money after which he was killed along with nine members of his gang on February 11.
 
 A reward of Rs 50,000 was declared for their arrest by the Haryana government. Since then, the four men had been hiding in rented apartments in the city. They had earlier managed to give the cops the slip while hiding in Uttam Nagar. 
 
 The men had planned to kill a member of Badwasania's gang who was hiding in Delhi after two of their associates were killed in an encounter with Haryana police in Sonepat earlier this month.
 
 Sunil told the police that after murdering Badwasania and two of his associates in Sonepat, they had carried their bodies 400km to western UP and dumped them in a canal. Efforts are being made to locate the bodies.
 
 The police are on the lookout for their fifth associate, Wakeel, who was directing them to the location of their target.
 
 The cops have also seized seven numberplates from the Fortuner. They would change the numberplate issued in different states to evade being detected after committing a crime. 
 
 A case under Arms Act and IPC have been registered against them. The Haryana police have been informed about their arrest.
 
