BATHINDA: Trying to catch gangs or anti-social elements, who use stolen vehicles to carry out nefarious activities (like that of Maur Mandi incident in which was a car with fake number plate was used in a blast just ahead of Punjab assembly elections), the   would be going hi-tech to trace stolen vehicles and keep a tab on cars with fake number plate.

 It has prepared a mobile app to trace stolen vehicles. The moment a stolen vehicle enters the jurisdiction of the district,   cameras fitted on all entry points of the district will capture the image of number plate of that vehicle and it will be flashed on the app that will have software through which cops could get details like engine number, chasis number, model and colour of the car.
 
 Cops said even if thieves change the registration number of the vehicle to fool the police, it will be immediately detected after the said vehicle comes under the ambit of the app. The app has been uploaded in mobile phones of all the policemen of the district.
 
 Police have also planned to start ‘e-nakabandi’ under which a number plate reader has been placed with the CCTV cameras on various nakas which could read the number plate of any vehicles even if it is travelling at a speed of 85km to 100km per hour in the night.
 
 The car that was used in the blast at Maur Mandi town of   had a fake registration number and the engine number and chasis number of the car were erased.
 
 Muktsar SSP Dhruman Nimble said, “The trial of the app and e-nakabandi was started at Mann Singh Wala village on the Muktsar-Ferozepur road and it will be soon launched across the district on all entry points. With the app, the policemen on a naka will be able to spot any vehicles with all the details of the car and even the occupants of the vehicle through CCTV cameras”.
 
 He said e-nakabandi would also increase the efficiency of the police. “Besides at the office, I can also monitor its functioning on my mobile phone from where I can easily check how efficiently the policemen deployed on nakas are checking the vehicles,” said Nimble.
 
 
