Nagpur: With an aim to inform the kids about the ongoing Nagpur Metro project, Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (NMRCL) organized an exclusive presentation for the members of Nagpur for Kids (NFK) Club on Sunday. The presentation was organized at Saraswati Vidyalaya in Shankar Nagar at 10.30am. Starting the presentation with an icebreaking session, Shirish Apte, deputy general manager, NMRCL, asked the kids about the necessity for Metro Rail in the city. “Today, many of us travel by buses or personal vehicles which run on petrol, diesel or gas. This puts a lot pressure on the environment. There will be a huge reduction in carbon-dioxide levels when the Metro becomes operational as solar energy will be used to meet almost 65% of its energy needs,” he said. Later, the kids were shown two videos about the Metro project. Being developed at an estimated cost of Rs8,700 crore, the Nagpur Metro will be the greenest Metro in the country. The project consists of a north-south corridor and an east-west corridor. Explaining the purpose behind the project, Apte said, “Our aim is to create a reliable, safe and pollution-free public transport system which will be accessible to all the citizens.” When Yash, one of the kids who stays at Vayusena Nagar which is not near the Metro corridor, asked about the provisions for people like him, Apte said, “There will be mini buses or battery-operated auto rickshaws to ferry passengers who live away from the stations.” Speaking about the elevated corridor, Apte said, “Underground metro network is costlier than on-road or elevated network. As the city has wide roads, elevated network was a natural choice. However, elevated route would not have worked in cities like Delhi.” Answering a query about the security and safety measures, Apte said that all Metro trains and stations will have CCTV surveillance. “We fall sick because our immune system fails. There are signs and symptoms if we catch any virus or disease. So we take medicine and get back on the track. It’s same with any system, it gives signs before it fails. So we will be constantly observing these signals and take care of it,” he said. The session concluded with the screening of a video on Chhatrapati Nagar flyover demolition. The kids were also shown the design and features of Metro trains, which include Wi-Fi service, mobile-laptop charging ports, reserved seats for specially-abled citizens and quick action facilities in case of medical emergencies. Commuters will be issued smart cards and discounts for students are also being considered, Apte said. (Reporting by Onkar Surve)