HYDERABAD: Stung by police revelations of students trapped in the murky world of drugs, schools in the city are finally coming out of  . There's a churning on the campus with principals of various schools coming together to launch a massive awareness campaign on   and its devastating impact on health and education.

 Schools with help of psychologists and child right activists are also planning to provide a free   for students to help them smash the deadly drug tentacles.
 
 “We feel it's important to create awareness so that students don't get trapped in a hellhole. Also, we are planning to organize an awareness programme for parents to educate them on drug addiction,“ said P Maruthi Prasad, principal, Ramadevi Public School. They are also planning to come out with posters and videos.
 
 Another principal,  , director, Slate School, said: “Being in a denial mode won't solve problems. If we aim to eradicate the menace, we have to acknowledge its existence and look for a solution.“
 
 City psychologists, on the other hand, said drug addiction among teens has been a problem for long, but most ca ses go unnoticed, they said.
 
 “When people have a problem in the heart, they rush to a cardiologist, but when there is a behavioral problem, they hesitate to see a psychologist. Unless this mindset changes, we can't actually put a number on percentage of students addicted to drugs. But this figure has risen dramatically and there's a need to address this issue,“ said Radhika Acharya, a psychologist.
 
 Achyuta Rao, president, Balala Hakula Sangham, a child rights' group under whose aegis the round table conference -drug addiction and its impact on children -was organized said, “We need to create awareness on adverse effects of drugs and also give free de-addiction to schoolchildren.“
 
 Rao feared the government may dilute the issue.“The education minister has said the drug control authority is crossing its limit by issuing notices to schools. We are apprehensive the schools may be let off, so we decided to send representations to the  
 
