HYDERABAD: The plight of residents living near the Chaman Hanuman Mandir in   is getting from bad to worse with time owing to the large-scale encroachments taking place near the temple.

  Adding to their miseries is the problem of sewage water flowing on to the road coupled with the strong stench emanating from the mortuary in close proximity to the locality.“There are a lot of temporary structures that have come up around the temple. 
 
 Scores of people gather here during the evenings and late nights to fritter away time and even drink. This has made it difficult for locals, especially women and children, to use the road,“ said  , a school teacher residing in the area.
 
 Ruing how these dwellers have the support of some political leaders, locals say that the backing has added to the complexity of the matter. “Members of a political party are supporting the people living in the temporary structures. A few others belonging to another party want the encroachments removed. 
 
 Hence, we have restricted ourselves from submitting an official representation to avoid any controversy ,“ said a resident on condition of anonymity . Echoing the sentiment of those living around, the resident said that everybody wants the encroachments removed immediately .
 
 When contacted, officials of the   ( ) said that they are working on the issue. “The inhabitants of these temporary structures have been residing there for many years. We will have to first rehabilitate them before pulling down the structures, as per government norms. 
 
 The issue has already been discussed with the Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) at the convergence meeting,“ said  , deputy commissioner (GHMC) of Goshamahal. Sewage water flowing on the road is another issue the residents are battling for a long time. While they have complained to the authorities repeatedly to solve the problem, they say , that the officials have done nothing to address it so far. “We always have to keep the windows of our house closed because of the stink that the sewage water emanates. The condition worsens when it rains,“ said  , a local.
 
 In fact, shopkeepers with businesses along the lane complain of drop in revenue.“My business is getting severely affected as many customers are now seen avoiding this lane because of this sewage problem. While sometime ago, we did get temporary relief when GHMC officials fixed the problem, it came back to haunt us a day or two later,“ complained a tea stall owner seen operating out of the stretch.
 
 “The HMWS&SB officials should lay a sewer line to fix the problem permanently . Connecting the sewer line to storm water drains is the reason for the overflowing manhole,“ said a GHMC official, passing the buck on to the water board.
 
