MADURAI:   has gripped some parts of Madurai, only it is not a political election but one to choose the office-bearers of the   in the city. Two factions, belonging to Easwaramoorthy and AKR, are fighting it out for the coveted 11 posts in the sabha. 

 In the 15th century, the Sourashtra community had migrated to Madurai from Vijayanagaram and were patronised by King   for their weaving skills. The king gave them land and buildings in return for their expertise and they settled around the Meenakshi temple, in the heart of the city.
 
 According to community leader  , the sabha was formed in the 1800s and has taken care of the education and other welfare aspects of the community. “But, now the governance of this sabha has been under the control of one single family for the last 20 years and the buildings owned by it are a dilapidated condition, due to neglect. We want to change this, hence we are contesting the election,’’ he said.
 
 Though there are 4.5 lakh Sourashtra people in Madurai, only 2000 of them will vote in the elections which is to be held on Saturday, at the Sourashtra Sabha trust house, between 8am and 6pm. “The minimal number of voters, is because the earlier office bearers had not taken steps to enroll new members.
 
  We plan to change this by decreasing the life time membership fee from Rs 10000 to Rs 2000, and conduct ‘mahimai’ council member enrollment which is held for a fee of Rs 300, once in three years, throughout the year,’’ he said. S R Ramesh is contesting the post of president from this faction.
 
 He said that they had also chosen members from various weaving communities in Nilayoor and other weaving colonies for the post of directors, to give them proper representation. 
 
 The other poll promises of this faction include celebrating the kolattam festival in the Prasanna Venkatachalapathy temple in a grand manner, as was done earlier. “We also want to renovate our buildings and provide lodging for the people of our community who come from other places to visit Madurai at a very minimal fee,’’ he added.
 
 Meanwhile, in the opposite faction, A R Balaji, is contesting for the post of president. He said that the Prasanna Venkatachalapathy temple would be renovated and changes would be made to enable people from all communities to come to the temple. 
 
 NRR Gopi, who is contesting for post of director, in Balaji’s side said that the low membership was due to the fact that people who had obtained the three-year membership failed to renew it. “We have also planned to increase the rent for 48 houses owned by us, by 20 per cent every year, to bring revenue,’’ he added.
 
