Mumbai: In a major setback to the Maharashtra government, the Bombay high court, on Friday, refused to approve an ambitious amnesty plan for pre-2015   buildings across the  . This is the second time in the last two years that the   has disapproved of the state’s plans to regularise illegal buildings. The new draft policy proposed to protect all illegal   constructed before December 31, 2015, and allow them to apply for regularisation on payment of a penalty.

 “Regularisation of a large number of buildings which is contrary to development control regulations will completely destroy town planning. It will destroy the concept of planned development,” said the HC. 
 
 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai. The court pointed out that the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act provides a comprehensive policy for planned development of cities and towns, which would be completely turned on its head with the state’s proposal to regularise large-scale violation of building laws. No impact assessment study was done by the authorities before framing the draft policy to study how it will affect civic facilities and amenities, the bench said.
 
 As per the state’s estimates there are over 10 lakh such buildings that would have benefited from the largesse. Advocate-general Rohit Deo who presented the draft policy before the court said it would ensure uniform rules with regard to regularisation of illegal structures. The main policy had said illegal buildings on prohibited land or those that have come up on government land would not be regularised. Annexures of the policy however carved out a way for even buildings on government land to be regularised if they manage to obtain a no-objection certificate from the public authority transferring ownership of the land. During the hearings, the bench termed it as a “backdoor entry” for illegal structures. The court in its order referred to Supreme Court judgments which had ruled that the ownership of government land could not be transferred unless a transparent method is followed and the public is invited to apply for it. “There is no law which permits (private individuals) to construct on central or state lands,” said the court and censured the state for “any attempt to dispose of public property without a fair and transparent manner”. The bench said the new proposed rules “encourage what is not permissible in law”.
 
 The court said that the MMRTP Act already had provisions to regularise unauthorised structures that could be made legal as per law. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation had opposed the scheme saying it could have disastrous consequences as well as affect public amenities. “Such development has been carried out on very narrow streets that may lead to disaster in the event of any natural and man-made calamity. Even NMMC is presently unable to provide fire, health and ambulance services in these areas,” said Mundhe. The commissioner also raised concerns over the safety of these buildings which have been constructed without any quality checks or even under the supervision of a licensed architect or structural engineer.
 
 The state’s application was in a public interest litigation seeking action against illegal buildings in Digha, Navi Mumbai. Some petitioners had also objected saying the scheme deprives people, who have bought flats in legal buildings, of public facilities and amenities.
 
 
