BENGALURU: When   Sushmitha Rao was in Class X, one of her teachers told her she would never be successful with the marks she got, 50% to 60% on average. Her family, too, looked at her as somebody who would never be able to do well in life.

 Today, Sushmitha is a successful HR consultant who sifts through applications of over 50 job aspirants every day, and doesn’t judge them for the marks they have got in school or college but the skills and talent they have.
 
 "All that I heard about myself from my teachers and parents during my years of failure in school and college taught me that there is more to life than just those numbers in annual report card," she says.
 
 An education system that pushes students to just slog for high marks and the pyramidal structure of evaluation which leaves little room on the top obfuscates the fact that life after school and college is more about what one can add to his or her chosen profession and not how well he or she did in academic endeavours.
 
 "Success is the result of education, not marks. Be it in government or private schools, the situation is the same. With parents obsessed with their child’s performance, schools take it on themselves to ensure 100% results during board exams. There’s no place for those who fail," says psychology professor Akeela P.
 
 We, however, come across a number of people who did not do well academically but are doing exceedingly well in their lives. After Shobhana (name changed), an alumnus of Deeksha PU College, secured 5000 rank in CET she had to hear that she wasn’t capable enough and would find it difficult to survive in this competitive world. Recalling her, G Sridhar, MD, Deeksha, says, "Shobhana went on to pursue civil engineering in one of the colleges. Four years later, she called me up and said she had been awarded the gold medal from Visvesvaraya Technological University, and that she was preparing for Civil Services examination."
 
 Hours of coaching couldn’t help Akash Subramaniam get good marks. His parents were warned by the school principal that if he failed to score at least 50% in the next unit test, he would be asked to leave. "My mother would cry and pray for me. I used to feel bad but somehow I could never write much in exams," Akash says.
 
 "I cannot forget that day in the principal’s room. I now realize how juvenile it was," says Akash, founder of a software startup and among the few creative minds in his field who combines software testing with risks, bringing him national and global appreciation.
 
 "Giving a child the confidence to perform better the next time is crucial. If a child scores 40 in an exam, he must be encouraged to score 50 next time. Taking one step at a time not only improves a child’s performance but helps maintain a high self-esteem too," says Jennifer Tavares, counsellor and special educator, Pledge Academy.
 
 The simple line — It’s ok if you fail now, you can do it next time — can save a child from drowning into the abyss of his "failure".
 
