CHENNAI: A match against   (CCFC) was regarded as a definite three-pointer in the books of most of the top   club coaches. But post Sunday, the perception has changed. They have become the giant slayers who pulled off a 2-1 win over   to heat up the title race.

 With their win on Sunday, CCFC have concluded their home fixtures this season and coach V Soundara Rajan said that he couldn't have asked for a better ending from his players. "This is definitely the best win of my life and I am sure it will be for most of the players. East Bengal is a team with so much history and we have just started out," Soundara Rajan told TOI.
 
 Though CCFC are still eighth in the table, the win against East Bengal will give them the much-needed confidence going forward. "Most of my players have never played I-League before. I told them that this might be their only chance of winning against a team like East Bengal and they were ready to fight. The draw against Bengaluru FC the other day also gave us confidence," he said.
 
 CCFC were inducted into the I-League in December and had less than a month to come together as a team before facing fellow debutant   in their opening match at home. They looked all over the place and were held to a goalless draw. Then they suffered two consecutive away defeats before hosting   at home. Bagan managed to win 2-1, but CCFC won the respect by putting up a good fight. The fact that they beat league leaders Aizawl FC at home shows that this team has a lot of potential.
 
 Talking about the positives that CCFC can take from their home results, captain Dharmaraj Ravanan said: "The highlight has to be the vast improvement of the local players. The highest level that these players have played is probably  . So for them I-League was a big deal and they knew this was their golden opportunity. I am delighted to see their improvement and the change in their attitude. Even on Sunday Nandha (one of the goal-scorers) was just unbelievable," Ravanan, a former Mohun Bagan player, said.
 
 CCFC have had their share of controversies this season. They changed their coach Robin Charles Raja with Soundara Rajan taking over in the middle of the season. One of their foreign recruits Haroon Amiri was released following an alteraction with the Soundara Rajan, the coach alleging that the Afghan refused to come on as a substitute against Bengaluru FC. There were payment problems as well, but the team gave a good account of itself despite the odds. "I am happy that my team showed maturity and did not let anything distract them. It also shows their mentality has got better and we are on the right track," Soundara Rajan said.
 
 After the international break CCFC will play their remaining four matches and Ravanan believes the results of the last couple two matches will give them confidence. "We don't have a good record away but these two matches have changed how we look at ourselves. Our target is to win at least two of the remaining four matches and finish mid table." 
 
