PANAJI: After several flip-flops and dousing of internal rebellion, Goa Pradesh   Committee on Wednesday announced that former MLA Agnelo Fernandes would contest the state assembly elections from  , a constituency that Goa Forward Party had considered its own.

 Congress also allotted a party ticket to Ramakrishna Jalmi, who will contest against independent candidate Govind Gawade in Priol.
 
 The announcement, which came on the final day for filing nominations added the final touch to the “seat-sharing” arrangement between GFP and GPCC, but also served to strain relations between the two.
 
 GPCC vice president M K Shaikh reiterated that the Congress would back Goa Forward in Fatorda and Siolim while MLA Rohan Khaunte would receive support in Porvorim. In Panaji, Congress will support its former MLA Atanasio Monserrate.
 
 Waiting for the nth moment to release the final list, Congress had a lot of fire-fighting to do as sources said that the party first asked Fatorda block Congress president Joseph Silva to contest and then asked him to back down. A similar situation played out in Siolim where Roshan Chodankar was asked to file his nomination and later asked to withdraw.
 
 Fernandes, who was informed on Wednesday morning that he was to contest the elections, was clearly unhappy over the manner in which his name was cleared by the party high command, specifically AICC general secretary  .
 
 “There is not enough time to campaign. I will do my best and all the other candidates have pledged their support, including those from 2012,” Fernandes said. He is counting on architect Tulio D’Souza and advocate Yatish Naik’s support, who were the other candidates vying for the ticket in Saligao. 
 
 Fernandes is clear that his main opponent in the constituency is tourism minister Dilip Parulekar but he refused to give Jayesh Salgaonkar (Goa Forward Party candidate) an easy time. “This is a joke. There is nothing called a friendly fight,” Fernandes said.
 
 Former journalist   will contest on the Aam Aadmi Party platform in the same constituency.
 
