GURUGRAM:  , using the   asan excuse, forced most   in the city to shut down on Wednesday. Though party officials claimed most shopkeepers had shut down voluntarily, as sales go down during Navratri, eye-witnesses claimed some shops in the Sadar area of old Gurgaon were forced shut by Shiv Sainiks.

 A chicken shop owner in Sector 14 said a group of 10-12 people, claiming to be Shiv Sainiks, forced him to close his shop around 11am. Cops arrived an hour later to offer cover for the shops to reopen.
 
 Shiv Sena spokesperson Ritu Raj said party activists, along with Bajrang Dal and Hindu Kranti Dal members, submitted a memorandum to the district administration a week ago to issue an order for closure of shops selling meat during the Hindu festive season, but the administration had failed to take any steps in the direction. “Therefore, our activists had to intervene and pursue shopkeepers to close all   in the city. We did not force them, they accepted our demand and cooperated,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, a senior administrative official said, “No meat shops will be shut on the demand of any group or individual. We have our own schedule, in which we decide whether to shut meat shops and liquor vends or not. We will talk to all parties and try to sort out the matter. No one will be allowed to take law and order into their hands. We’ll consider the suggestion and find a concrete solution.” 
 
 Cops said no political party or individual can force the closure of any shops. Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said, “Based on the feedback from various police stations, we’ve deployed quick response police teams to check any untoward incident. We haven’t received any complaint in this regard. Strict action will be taken against those who try to disturb law and order.” He added a few activists, claiming to be part of right-wing groups, had asked meat shop owners to close down, telling them if they do not do as asked, Gurgaon police would force them to do so. He added that there is no law to shut meat shops, and action will be taken against those trying to spread misinformation.
 
 David Naved Watharkar of David & Co, Gurgaon’s largest standalone meat shop, said, “I haven’t heard of anything like this happening in new Gurgaon. We haven’t received any threats or notices from the government or anybody else. Everything’s running smoothly, and there’s nothing for us to worry about.” The biggest meat wholesale market in the city in Jacobpura, though, remained shut as a routine measure during Navratri. “The market is closed for few days during Navratri, as sales are down. No one has forced us to close our shops,” said a shopkeeper in Jacobpura.
 
 
