Kolkata: Revenue from   — which boasts the single-largest FDI in Bengal’s transportation sector — only broke even in the last financial year, nine years since it was thrown open to vehicular traffic in 2007. Toll company officials blame the delay on the change in the state’s investment scenario, because of which the bridge is operating at less than half its maximum capacity.

 Directors of the Second Vivekananda Bridge Tollway Company Private Limited (SVBTC) said investment prospects had looked rosy when the bridge was commissioned, but it started changing fast after the Nandigram and Singur agitations and companies like the Indonesian Salim Group, Tata Motors and DLF pulling out of the state. “Traffic hasn’t grown as had been projected by various international surveys,” said Lala K K Roy, director, corporate development and governance, SVBTC. “In fact, after 10 years, only around 28,000 vehicles are using the bridge every day. That is only 45% of the capacity, and a third of the projected vehicle count in the 10th year,” he added.
 
 “Unlike in Gujarat and other western states,” said Roy, “where infrastructure projects yield returns as projected, in Bengal, the lack of heavy manufacturing units and the closure of existing ones have had their effects.” His colleague and fellow director, Susanta Mukherjee, said: “Once Bengal’s economy changes, we can change simultaneously.” He said only 3% of the traffic on the bridge came from outside the state.
 
 The Rs 676 crore build, operate, transfer (BOT) project was meant to be a vital link in India’s National Highway system, as it connects Kolkata and National Highways 34 and 35. The bridge was built with the participation of a consortium that included the Mauritius-based Pacific Alliance-Stradec Group Infrastructure Company and Larsen & Toubro. Along with the National Highways Authority of India’s corpus of Rs 120 crore, the consortium of foreign investors had pumped two-thirds of the project’s equity component of Rs 127 crore.
 
 
