NEW DELHI: The   on Friday agreed to hear the plea of a 13-year-old   from Delhi to abort her 22-week   and set up a medical board of five senior doctors of   for her examination. The court will decide her plea on the basis of the medical report.

 The girl, a resident of East Delhi and a Class 2 student, moved the court through her mother and said she did not want to give birth. She had to approach the court after doctors refused to permit her to undergo abortion as the pregnancy had crossed the legally permissible limit of 20 weeks.
 
 Advocate Divyesh Pratap Singh, appearing for the petitioner, said the girl was too young and physically weak to bear the emotional trauma and labour of delivery and urged the court to allow her to abort.
 
 “The victim is a minor girl and she is physically and mentally incapable of carrying this pregnancy. She will have to face severe psychological, physical and emotional trauma of going through a full term pregnancy and eventually be in a helpless situation either to fend for herself or for her child. It is worth mentioning she is a Class 2 student, delivery and bringing up the child will put an abrupt end to her education, driving her further into poverty,” Singh said.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud agreed to hear her plea and directed AIIMS to constitute a medical board comprising heads of department of obstetrics & gynaecology, paediatrics, psychiatry, radiology and neurology. The court asked the girl to appear before the board on Saturday for an examination of her medical condition and that of the foetus. The court directed the board to place the medical report before it on Monday.
 
 The girls’ parents came to know about the pregnancy when she went for a check-up for indigestion and bloated stomach. The girl later revealed that their landlord used to   her when her parents, both daily wage earners, went out to work. The parents then filed an FIR and a probe is on. They requested many doctors to help abort the pregnancy and were asked to move court.
 
 “A woman’s right to make reproductive choices is also a dimension of personal liberty. It is important to recognise that reproductive choices can be exercised to procreate as well as to abstain from procreating. The crucial consideration is that her right to privacy, dignity and bodily integrity should be respected,” the petition said.
 
 The Medical Termination of Pregnancy(MTP) Act, 1971, permits abortion till the foetus is 20 weeks old. The Centre had initiated the process to amend the MTP Act in 2014 but it is still pending. The proposed bill intends to extend the permissible period for abortion from 20 weeks to 24 weeks if the pregnancy involves a substantial risk to the mother or the child. The amendment also allows to do away with the time limit for abortion in case of substantial foetal abnormalities. Due to delay in the amendment, aggrieved women have been approaching the   for its nod to abort their foetus. 
 
 
