AHMEDABAD:   (HC) on Monday questioned the state government as to why authorities allow vehicular movement in the bird flu-affected zone in Memnagar when there is a notification issued by the city police commissioner.

 The court has asked the government to place a report showing all actions taken by the authorities to curb the outbreak of bird flu in Memnagar. This is in response to the allegations that the authorities were inactive in implementing the notification as well as taking precautionary actions as per WHO guidelines.
 
 The state government once again refuted the charges and maintained that it had been following the guidelines and the situation was being constantly monitored. The government also responded to the HC query on vehicular movement by submitting that the park, in which the H5N1-affected birds had been kept, culled and buried, has been sealed and nobody is allowed to enter the premises.
 
 Rebutting the state government’s argument that all precautionary actions have been taken, petitioners’ advocates   and   highlighted a wedding party in a party plot adjacent to the park in which avian influenza affected birds have been buried. They argued that when the police commissioner has invoked section 144 of the CrPC and joggers are not allowed to gather in the garden, how the authorities permitted a wedding party in the plot next to the ground zero on Sunday night. This is in clear violation of the notification. 
 
 The HC also wanted to know which departments monitor the situation.
 
 Meanwhile, the petitioners’ advocates continued to raise question on the decision to bring birds from   to Memnagar after presence of bird flu was suspected. They also raised doubts on the delay caused in getting the disease in the birds confirmed.
 
 Advocate Shah alleged that the delay caused in obtaining report from a Bhopal laboratory and declaring more than 24 hours later that the birds kept in Memnagar too were H5N1 infected was because the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit had been underway till January 12. Further proceeding is scheduled on January 27.
 
