KOCHI: Making students attending coaching classes to crack entrance examinations for long hours past their school time could prove detrimental to their academics, experts have warned.
Most students are not able to handle the pressure caused by the need to find time for school studies and entrance-oriented coaching. “There are a few students who do not have to study much once they get back home because they pay complete attention in class.The rest find it difficult to manage the entrance coaching and school academics at the same time,“ said Fr Anthony M, principal of the Sacred Heart School, Thevara.
 
 He said that students who undertake after-school entrance training classes are often tired and exhausted during school hours.The best option for students is drop a year and prepare for the entrance exam, as they would be able to concentrate on what's being taught at school as well.
 
 George  , one of the directors of Brilliant's coaching centre said: “Afterschool coaching is fairly new to the   education system. In other parts of India, students who are undertaking these intense training do not attend school and only focus on entrance coaching classes.“
 
 He said that in Kerala, parents and schools are very strict about maintaining attendance and hence the students are expected to spend time on both entrance coaching programmes and school classes. Thomas said almost 75% of all students who clear the MBBS entrance examination every year would have invested a year in it.
 
 “It is the opposite for engineering schools because there are more seats available,“ he said.
 
 “It's a good idea for students to undergo entrance training programme during grade XII to understand what an entrance examination is. But they must focus their attention on school academics as it is also important for admissions,“ said Anthony M.
 
 Some teachers were of the opinion that it would be good for students to start their entrance preparation in grade XI. “If they start in grade IX, they will be able to manage their time better while in Class XII,“ said  , a physics teacher at FITJEE.
 
 He said attending vacation training classes or crash courses will not help students preparing for entrance examinations like IIT-JEE as it is important for students to shape their fundamental concepts well.
 
