BELAGAVI: In a huge   to   Anand Appugol, the chairman of the Krantiveer Sangolli Rayanna Cooperative Credit Society, Dharwad circuit bench, stayed the FIR registered against him in the Khade Bazar police station on Friday.

 “If we get a copy of the stay order today, we will produce it before the JMFC 3rd Court in Belagavi, seeking release of Anand Appugol. If getting the copy is delayed, the petition will be moved to the Belagavi court on Monday, since the high court doesn’t work on Saturdays,” Mandakini Appugol, lawyer of accused  , told TOI.
 
 Appugol was arrested in Mumbai on September 17 by the police, following a complaint of the cooperative department, stating the bank has cheated depositors to the tune of Rs 232 crore. The court remanded Appugol to four days police custody, and on Thursday, the custody was extended by four more days, as the police claimed that the accused is not cooperating with the inquiry.
 
 However, the high court stayed the FIR on Friday. Advocate Mandakini Appugol said no depositor has registered a complaint with the police, stating that they have been cheated by the society. An FIR has been lodged without carrying out a preliminary investigation. The lawyer said the registrar of cooperative societies, sub-division, Belagavi, registered the complaint, which is wrong. “Since it’s an audit and registration body, it can file only complaints of a civil nature, and not under criminal sections,” advocate Appugol stated.
 
 On Thursday, DCP (crime)  , told the media that Appugol is not cooperating with the inquiry, as he is hiding details of properties. “If he continues the same, we will refer the case to the CID. Our motive is that depositors should get back their hard-earned money,” Reddy said.
 
 Complicated case
 
 According to sources in the cooperative audit department, the Rayanna Society case is a complicated one. In the last three days, police did the job of just seizing the documents from the head office, which needs to be scrutinized by them. Besides, there are nearly 35 branches. Documents need to be collected from those branches, and the figures need to be consolidated, said sources.
 
 Since the Society has not submitted the audit report of 2016-17 so far, at this stage, the cooperative department can’t appoint an administrator till the audit report is ready. Legal procedures of auctioning the properties and recovery of loans will begin only after appointment of an administrator.
 
 Prima facie, a lot of violations by the society are in respect to sanctioning loans, investments in real estate and getting loans in the name of the chairman and board of directors, said sources. These need to be investigated separately. “It is a long procedure, and the depositors must be patient,” a senior official from the cooperative department told TOI.
 
