Losing weight is more about a strong will than a smooth way. Shedding extra kilos is never easy but when   had decided that she will not let weight hurt her anymore, she lost 30 kilos with the right mix of exercise,   and yoga. Here is her journey from fat to fit.

 
  Vishnu Priya Panday
 
 
  120 kg
 
 
  35 kg
 
 
  It was when a salesman told me 'there is no dress for your size, ma’am. Maybe, you should go for unstitched dress materials.' My in-laws and cousins had accompanied me to the store but they couldn’t control their laughter at what the salesman said. Too embarrassed, I rushed into the changing room and burst out into tears. I hated my big tummy and started beating against it. That is when I decided that I am not going to let my weight hurt me emotionally and within a year, I was well into my  .
 
 
  I keep changing what I have for breakfast. Sometimes, I have poha or oats with veggies and then I replace it with fruit salads or egg whites.
 
 
  For my lunch, I take a big bowl of veggies (boiled). I always add cabbage to it because it helps me cut fat around my tummy. This diet helped me drop my weight significantly. After that, sometimes I started taking 2 rotis (multigrain) along with dal, boiled chicken or grilled fish.
 
 
  I keep my dinner light. I go for soups, grilled veggies or scrambled eggs.
 
 
  Well, I love smoothies. I prefer them when I feel low on energy.
 
 
  I started with baby steps. Initially, when I started walking, I used to feel very heavy and was not able to walk for more than fifteen minutes. But slowly, I improved and my stamina built so well that I could jog continuously for up to half an hour. Then, I started doing yoga and believe me, it changed my body completely. I have started feeling very light now.
 
 
  I love paneer. I keep experimenting with paneer recipes. 
 
 
  People say that for losing weight, exercise plays 30 per cent role whereas diet plays 70 per cent role. But, I gave both an equal emphasis. I used to eat right and workout harder. I will never stop exercising and will keep changing workouts as I love to challenge myself to do better.
 
 
  I am still on my journey to lose another 20 kilograms. So, I keep telling myself, "I love myself. I am confident and energetic. Even at this stage, I am not going to lose hope but extra pounds. I can beat them...”
 
 
  I used to love food and this made me binge eat. I never watched what went into my mouth. But then I realized that all the greasy and oily foods I was having were hurting my body. Now, I do not repeat those mistakes. I still treat myself with food but I make sure that I make a healthier choice.
 
 
