NAGPUR: “The values that Gandhi instilled in Indians made   successful in a big country like ours,” said well-known writer and thinker Bhau Torsekar.

 He was speaking during Dr AN Deshpande memorial lecture series 2017 organized by Dr AN Deshpande Smruti Samiti at   on Sunday. The topic for the lecture was ‘From Mahatma Gandhi to Narendra Modi’ on which keynote speaker Torsekar expressed his views. The Mumbai man is famous for his political blogs. The event was conducted by Dinesh Khurgey and introductory remarks were given by secretary Rajendre Naikwad. SM Deshpande presided over the event. 
 
 He said, “Demonetisation boded well for India but failed miserably in other countries inspite of their population being less than ours. This move surely caused inconvenience but people embraced the pain and dealt with it patiently.”
 
 Torseker gave Gandhi the credit for it saying, “Gandhi inculcated qualities of non-violence, patience and honesty in us. Modi understood this and took the bold step.”
 
 He said people who claim to be followers of Gandhi are setting up committees, trusts and building his statues. They have forgotten his teachings. They have failed to implement his principles in real life. But it is Modi who is actually working in that direction.
 
 He said, “The namesake followers are only bragging about ahimsa, satyagraha and swadeshi and not doing anything constructive about it but when Modi does it, they portray his image as Nathuram’s supporter.” He also lauded Baba Ramdev’s efforts to preserve swadeshi and ideologies of Gandhi.
 
 On a lighter note, he discussed about Yogi Adityanath. He said, “People have labelled him as Pro-Hindu and fanatic. In 2002, same allegations were made against Modi, but he is the PM now. There is a chance that history may get repeated and Adityanath might become PM in 2024.”
 
 Torsekar believes that Modi is analysing the current scenario, understanding the requirement and working for the people. He said, “Modi has repealed over 1,100 obsolete laws in these three years. This clearly signifies that he is studying the present situation and developing rules that benefits this generation.”
 
