Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district has recorded its first H1N1 death this year with a pregnant woman succumbing to viral pneumonia a few days ago.

 The woman, who was into sixth month of pregnancy, had got fever on March 8 and died three days later. Dr Rajesh, district surveillance officer, said unless patients are treated within 36 hours of initial symptoms with Tamiflu, complications or mortality rates are likely to be high, he said.
 
 Since the woman was wife of an MRPL employee, the company has issued a health advisory which delineates symptoms, warning signs and preventive measures. The advisory also suggested that vaccination to prevent H1N1 was available and those interested should get registered for vaccination.
 
 Prashanth Baliga, DGM, corporate communications, MRPL, admitted that the health advisory was issued after employees started inquiring about possible safeguards after learning about the death of the spouse of an employee.
 
 In DK District, one death and 12 positive cases have been reported since January this year out of the 62 blood samples tested for H1N1. Dr Rajesh said that the peculiar weather pattern may be one of the causes for the rise in cases. Dakshina Kannada district had recorded its very first H1N1 death in March 2015 with a 62-year-old person succumbing to the flu.
 
 Meanwhile, the incidences of H1N1 are on the decline in Udupi. The district has recorded two deaths since January this year. Udupi district surveillance officer Dr Vasudev Upadyaya said the district has reported 58 positive cases since beginning of the year. “Earlier we used to see 10 suspected cases per day and now it has reduced to just one or two per day,’’ he said while pointing out that there is a cyclical change once in three years as far as swine flu incidences are concerned. “Normally we used to see more cases during winter months, but this year, we are seeing people getting H1N1 in March also. Now the dry season has started, the incidences will be much less,’’ he hoped.
 
 
