Panaji: Goa could miss out on marquee matches at the   later this year if the crowd interest continues to be lukewarm.
 
  Unlike in the past, crowd attendance for football matches in Goa has been on the decline with the AFC U-16 Football Championship drawing a maximum of 4,000 spectators for matches involving hosts India. Even at the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy, a few hundred spectators have shown up at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim whenever Goa has been in action. The rest of the matches have been played in front of near empty stadiums.
  
  The empty stadiums bear testimony to just how disconnected ‘football-loving’   remain with football even though it remains the only state to have declared football as the state sport.
  
  “We saw during the AFC U-16 Championship that there was very small crowd attending the tournament. The public did not respond as we expected. It’s a big concern for us obviously. If you have India playing in your home country, there are (only) about 4,000 spectators. That’s far away from having a full stadium,” said  , Fifa’s head of tournaments.
  
  Goa, one of the six venues for the tournament, are guaranteed to host one group which will involve six matches. But asked specifically if Goa could be considered for some of the knock-out matches, particularly semifinals, Yarza said Goa’s chances were as good as any of the six venues, if the crowd responds enthusiastically to the U-17 World Cup.
  
  “Everything is open (at this stage). The big concern is the public response for matches as we could see during the AFC Championship. This is our biggest concern right now. We are trying to see how best we can resolve the situation,” said Yarza.
  
  A seven-member Fifa delegation led by Yarza is currently in India to inspect the stadiums, along with members of the local organizing committee (LOC). The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Delhi was the first venue to be inspected. The delegation next arrived in Goa on Thursday and will also inspect the four remaining venues; Kochi, Mumbai, Guwahati and Kolkata.
  
  “You can see that a lot of improvement has happened here in Goa. We are satisfied with the support of the authorities; they are doing a fantastic job. It was a good test to have the AFC qualifiers here. You can see that most of the requirements that we had requested have been finalized. The stadium is in much better shape,” said Yarza.
  
  The Fifa U-17 World Cup is the biggest football event in the subcontinent and will run from October 6-28.
