CHENNAI: The holes seen on former chief minister  's cheek when the body was kept on display for public homage at the Rajaji Hall had triggered widespread speculation. 

 This was among the many doubts sought to be dispelled at a press conference on Monday facilitated by the state government to offer details of the treatment given to Jayalalithaa.
 
 Doctors, led by London-based critical care expert Dr Richard Beale, said Jayalalithaa, who was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on September 22, 2016, with breathlessness triggered by an infection, died of cardiac arrest on December 5.
 
 Minutes after her death, Dr Sudha Seshayyan, director of anatomy,  , was called in to do the embalming procedure. 
 
 "Embalming was done to prevent the body from decomposing when it was placed for public homage. It's a procedure where we inject a mixture of chemicals to preserve the body," she said. 
 
 While doing the 15-minute procedure, she noticed three dots on Jayalalithaa's cheek. "These were just ecchymotic (subcutaneous) dots. These could be the result of anchoring the tracheostomy tubes. Her lips too were swollen, probably because of the ventilator clamp. When we injected about 5.5 litres of fluid through her right femoral artery (blood vessel in the leg), there was no leak, barring mucus discharge from the nose. I don't know how or why the holes on her cheeks looked big in the pictures on social media," she said.
 
 During the hour-long press conference, the doctors did not read out a prepared speech, but said they would answer questions raised by the media without compromising on patient confidentiality. 
 
 One of the treating doctors, Apollo pulmonologist Dr Babu K Abraham, said Jayalalithaa was brought to the hospital on September 22 with breathlessness, which was caused by infection in the blood. 
 
 "She was given antibiotics. In a few days she had to be put on a ventilator and kept on sedation. But she was woken up after a tracheostomy and her condition improved. She was being given physiotherapy and was even being readied for discharge. But on December 4 she suffered a massive cardiac arrest," he said. 
 
 She was then connected to a heart-pump, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).
 
 Nearly 24 hours after she was connected to life support, the medical team decided that it was futile to continue medical treatment as her heart did not recover. 
 
 "It was a medical decision to turn off life support. We informed he family, government officials, including chief secretary and health secretary, and ministers," he said. 
 
 Apollo Hospitals has raised a bill of 5.5 crore and it has been handed over to the family. "By family, we mean Ms V K  ," said Dr P Balaji, laparoscopic surgeon from the Government Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, who was appointed by the government as coordinator for her treatment. 
 
 
