ALOPATI CHAR:   Rafzul Haque, an inhabitant of the remote Alopati char (sandbar) in  , has seen the  , leaving his neighbours and he jostling for space and resources. 

 The char has a population of more than three lakh, crammed in an area 35km long and 15km broad. The islanders have no access to electricity or proper roads. What it does have, however, is a dedicated group of activists, mostly former residents, who have begun to address the various challenges before the land. It was at a recent session organized by this group of activists that Haque gave vent to his feelings.
 
 The group comprises doctors and teachers who interact with the current residents of the char and educate them about climate change, the ill-effects of unchecked population growth and the various means of family planning. The activists, mostly settled in and around the char, have also roped in the local students' union to further their cause. They also frequently take the help of religion to get their message across.
 
 "Islam talks about taking care of the planet. The residents of the char are slowly realising that family planning and curbing social evils like child marriage can actually lessen their problems and improve their quality of life," said Illias Ali, a family planning expert and state nodal officer of the No-Scalpel Vasectomy Programme.
 
 "We want to tell the people here that Islam is not against family planning. Child marriages cause unchecked population growth. We tell the poor to adopt a healthier way of life," said doctor Muhammad Ali, a former resident of Alopati and also part of the group.
 
 Through regular sessions and interaction programmes on various social issues, which the activists say are all interlinked, the group has been able to gain the attention and trust of the char's poor and mostly unlettered inhabitants.
 
 "We have seen how people have come forward to make a difference. They want to be part of change. The residents have also slowly started understanding the various social ills practised by them and their repercussions," said Azizul Haque, president of the Alopati Students' Union.
 
 
