THRISSUR: The arrest of Dileep in the actor rape case is a pointer to the menacing level of decadence and criminality fast gripping the film field, said cultural leaders and sociologists. They said that the incident must lead to a serious introspection among those in the cultural field.

 Psychiatrist Dr C J John and Dr   pointed out that the incident assumed more worrying dimensions considering that an ambience sanitizing such crimes was getting fast entrenched in the society .
 
 “Due to the socio-economic changes that had taken place in the past couple of decades, large sections in the society have been able to meet their primary needs like food, clothing, shelter, education and reasonably good income. A sub-culture of greed and `making money and wresting power and other comforts by any means' have become the reigning ethos of the society . Emergence of people like Pulsar Suni is part of that metamorphosis,“ said Dr John.
 
 “Such crimes are manifestations of rapid urbanization, which gives impetus for the flourishing of egoistic and self-centred individuals. Social capital and interdependence are casualties of such societies, and crime rates will sky-rocket in such ambience,“ said Dr Shaji.
 
 Chalachithra Academy chairman Kamal said that the superstar culture have ushered in a paradigm shift in the film field, reducing the importance of directors.
 
 Filmmaker   said the proposal to constitute a film regulatory authority can bring down the unhealthy competitions in the film industry .
 
 Minister for culture A K Balan said that the government would expedite the forma tion of the regula tory authority .
 
 Veteran actor Sheela said an at mosphere of warmth and concern were prevailing in the field earlier. “We never feared of such incidents in the past. But even then we never had to move alone from locations, the seniors would ensure that someone accompanied us,“ Sheela said.
 
 She said AMMA members should have given a collective representation to the police and CM demanding a thorough probe, instead of creating unnecessary controversies. “Would they have spent their time in meetings and unnecessary discussions if the assaulted actor was male?,“ she said.
 
  president   said cultural institutions must think of joint initiatives to campaign against the criminals in film and other cultural fields.
 
