The Indian division of  . Pictures has filed an injunction and demanded a stay order in the Bombay High Court on the release of  's upcoming comedy, 'Guest iin London', scheduled to open on June 9. The studio is claiming that the film is being promoted as a sequel to their 2010 comedy, 'Atithi Tum Kab Jaoge?' whose remake and franchise rights are owned by them.The first hearing of the case took place on Monday with the studio's legal team and Mangat's lawyers. It is being produced under Panorama Pictures, Mangat's home banner, with son Abhishek Pathak.

  
  
 The second hearing date has been set for May 29. A senior executive of Warner Bros told Mirror that they had been in talks with the makers of 'Guest iin London' for months, while it was under production and moved High Court when both parties failed to arrive at an amicable solution. “The original was a sleeper hit and recovered more than double its investment and the idea of a sequel had cropped up then. Kumar Mangat was keen on it and the studio was in talks with him. Then, last year, Atithi in London was announced even though the makers didn't have any rights. The rights to a prequel, sequel, adaptation and remake all are with Warner Bros., the primary presenters and distributors of the original. As a damage control measure they changed the title from Atithi in London to Guest iin London and claim that their film has nothing to do with the original. But the story is in exact continuation with the franchise theme," the studio executive informed.
 
 The source went on to add that the promos on air right now feature a running gag with the phrase “Atithi tum kab jaoge“ used as a constant refrain. Another grouse is that the new film is being promoted as a follow-up to the original.
 
 When contacted Abhishek Pathak, he said, “Warner Bros. has filed a false injunction seeking a stay order on the release of Guest iin London without our consent. No relief was granted on Monday, while the next hearing is on May 20." 'Athithi Tum Kab Jaoge?' was directed by Ashwni Dhir, and produced by   (Kumar Mangat's daughter). It featured Ajay Devgn and Konkana Sen Sharma as a married couple and   as the unwanted guest. 'Guest iin London', also helmed by Ashwni, has unwanted guest Paresh Rawal along with his wife, played by Tanvi Azmi, landing up at the London apartment of a distant relative, played by  , and his live-in girlfriend, Kriti Kharbanda, unannounced.
 
 Last year, author-cartoonist Abid Surti had sued Ashwni and the producers of 'Atithi Tum Kab Jaoge?'
 claiming the story was directly lifted from his Gujarati novel,'Bauter Varas No Babo', first published in 1976, and later translated to Hindi as Bahatar Saal Ka Baccha. This year, Abid has filed a case with The Film Writers Association (FWA) demanding monetary compensation as the case is still pending judgment in court.
 
  
  
 
