GURUGRAM: The six-lane sector road from   on golf course extension road to   — the only connectivity for commuters living in upscale townships in sectors 66 and 67 — has turned into a nightmare. Locals claim their lives are at risk due to the presence of two high tension (HT) electricity towers, right in the middle of each three-lane carriageway.

 With no street lights, commuters, particularly during night-time, often end up hitting the towers, resulting in deaths. The road, which ends at a T-point a little ahead of the M3M Urbana project, has no barrier. Several accidents were reported in the past few months, when vehicles drove ahead and fell into the ditch beyond where the road ended.
 
 Driving is even more arduous during winters. “Due to fog, there is zero visibility even in the morning. Several accidents have happened where commuters banged into a tower,” said a resident. “The towers in the middle of the carriageway are a serious concern, especially in the absence of street lights. People have lost lives in accidents here,” said Sector 66 resident Kapil Mehta, adding authorities should relocate the towers as traffic volume is expected to rise, with more housing projects along the road about to be delivered.
 
 In January, a concrete mixer truck had crashed into a HT tower leading to outages across sectors, and leaving the tower, which is part of the power grid, badly damaged. It apparently took DHBVN 16 hours to send a crane to clear the stretch. “The tower has been fixed, but it looks it can collapse any moment,” said Sanjeev Sharma, a resident, adding wires can be seen hanging low.
 
 “I’ve lived here for three years, and can vouch the route is unsafe. HT lines hang over the road, exemplifying poor planning and execution,” said   of Ansal Esencia in Sector 67.
 
 “Accident are bound to happen because of negligence by authorities, who are ignoring the sagging HT wires,” Naveen Gupta, Esencia RWA member, said.
 
 “Gurgaon tops in crimes against women. Out here, there is not much relief for women, due to lack of street lights,” said Rohti Arora, Sector 66 resident.
 
 Manmeet Singh Batra of the architecture and design team of the builder, M3M, which has other projects along the road, said, “The HT poles in the middle of the roads are hindrances. They can either be replaced with pylons for HT lines, or they should be shifted to adjacent landscaped green belts, which would enhance the driving experience on the road, facilitate horticultural works along the median, and speed up development here.”
 
 When TOI contacted Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, he assured he would look into the issue. “We’ll try to address the concern of residents at the earliest,” said Yadav. 
 
 
