If you have raised an eyebrow at this and thought it was just a saucy act, shake off that notion.  , which was earlier looked at as sleazy, has been quietly and steadily catching on as a top fitness trend in the city. More women are taking it up to get toned and have fun while exercising. Here’s why you ought to push away that regular jog or spin class in favour of it...

 
 It may not be a mainstream regimen as in the West, but the few pole dancing classes in the city are packed to capacity.  , who has trained in pole art in Australia, is breaking regressive notions associated with it. Ever since her video, where she talked about pole dancing went  , it got people queuing up to learn. “Pole dancing comes with a preconceived idea that it’s just about gyrating. But it’s great to see more women open to it now. And I’ve been getting queries from men for it as it involves elements of athletics,   and resistance training, hence they like it. It lets you connect with your body and leaves you feeling so empowered. It also teaches you balance, control and coordination,” she says.
  Shilpa Rane, a pole dance teacher from Dadar, says there’s been a   change towards it. “Pole dancing helps women lose their inhibitions; they say they feel stronger while doing so. In our society, we are constantly told as to what is sexy and what is not, but such a routine helps you find that aspect of yourself; it helps celebrate femininity within. This is the perfect gymnastic workout - which builds the core and makes you feel more confident about the skin one you are in,” she says. And there’s another side to it, too. As pole dance teacher from Santa Cruz, Namrata Purohit admits, “It’s whole a lot of fun, people want to get out of the monotony of a gym or even their workplace. Not only does it give you a great figure, but pole dancing is done to music and gives a complete high.”
 
 
  
  
 The regimen is for any one, at any age. Informs Aarifa, “Pole dancing is easily done by any body frame or shape. I have 7-year-olds to 50-year-olds learning,” says Aarifa. The class is usually an hour and the first 15 minutes involves a warm-up routine, which is crucial to avoid injuries. She explains, "You begin with intense moves so to get the heartbeat high – squats crunches and other dance movements, which are like a high-intensity cardio. Then do stretches (upper and lower body). This is followed by floor work – hips rolls, crunches and dance moves that target abs. Beginners then start with spins, move to pull ups on the pole and then graduate to learn to climb and sit on it, which develops the thigh muscles and core. This is followed by the basic inversion. More advanced moves involve leg-hangs and transitioning to other challenging inversions.” Sliding up and down the pole might seem effortless, but it’s far from that. “You do get friction burns, which is part of the learning, but that only makes you more resilient,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 Today, pole dancing sees a mixed class with housewives, lawyers, teachers, doctors and more. Namrata Mirchandani, 33-year-old technology consultant from Worli says pole fitness fascinated her. “This was something one only saw in movies and was so I glad to see a class in Mumbai for it. When you are performing on stage with a pole, it’s such a powerful statement. Pole dancing needs strength and grace to make it look effortless and that’s a beautiful combination to develop,” she says.
  For 45-year-old marketing executive, Sonia Kaul taking up pole dancing has been liberating. She says, “It makes for such an escape from my busy day, where I can be myself with no judgments at all. There is so much beauty in the dance – it’s free flowing and allows me to embrace myself. I think this is something all women should do or at least try once. Pole dancing is also de-stressing and makes you fitter. Twirling around the pole may seem easy, but it’s so intense, for that one hour you are exhausted and really burn the flab,” she states.
 
 
  
  
 Not just women, corporates are taking the dance seriously, too. Adds Rane, “More corporates are including pole dancing as part of the exotic dance   in their fitness plan for women employees. An increasing number of women also want to include as part of their ‘hen nights’, so it’s really catching on.” “Pole dancing comes with a preconceived idea that it’s just about gyrating. But it’s not so. People may say its bold, but when you’re hanging upside down its an amazing feeling you’re combating a mental and physical limitation. I’ve been getting queries from men, too as it involves elements of athletics, gymnastics and resistance training. It can leave you feeling empowered and teaches you balance, control and coordination,” she informs.
  Shilpa Rane, a pole dance teacher from Dadar, also welcomes a mindset change towards it. “Pole dancing helps women lose their inhibitions; they say they feel stronger while doing so. Such a routine also helps celebrate femininity within. This is the perfect gymnastic workout — it builds the core and makes you feel more confident about the skin one you are in,” she says. And there’s another side to it, too. As Santa Cruz-based pole dance expert Namrata Purohit admits, “It’s a lot of fun and makes people get out of the monotony of a gym or being stuck in the office for hours. And as pole dancing is done to music, it gives a high.”
 
 
 
