NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the director of a company named   for allegedly swindling Indian public sector banks of over Rs 2,650 crore. This is one of the biggest cases of money laundering via trusts registered in offshore tax havens.

 Since the fraud came to light, the agency has attached 1,280 acres of land in California, US, as well as some other assets owned abroad by Vijay Choudhary and his family members, together worth about Rs 130 crore.
 
 Choudhary had two trusts registered in Liechtenstein -Beverin Stifung Foundation and Windleaf Foundation -of which he was the sole beneficiary .
 
 Using these trusts, he further created five companies in the UK and   that were projected to Indian bankers as independent foreign entities which had entered into contracts with Zoom Developers for various engineering services.
 
 According to the ED, its investigation revealed that Choudhary had a chain of at least 450 companies, many of them registered in several offshore jurisdictions, including the US, the UK, Switzerland, Singapore, Germany and Dubai, to launder the proceeds of his crime, the money he earned swindling government banks in India.
 
 Through these foreign companies, Choudhary gen erated fake work contracts, and obtained bank guarantees in India on the basis of these contracts and the ad vance received from them. These foreign entities with their foreign bankers later invoked the bank guarantees and recovered the money pledged as guarantee when the Indian companies failed to deliver. The Indian companies as well as the foreign entities were allegedly controlled by Choudhary and his associates, the ED said.
 
 An ED spokesperson said Choudhary had floated 15 companies in the US, nine in Dubai, seven in Singapore, four in Germany , three each in the UK and Switzerland, and two each in China and Zimbabwe, to create fake contracts and launder money .
 
 Choudhary and Zoom Developers are facing a CBI case too for cheating government banks. A chargesheet has already been filed by the CBI against Choudhary for causing “wrongful loss to five banks to the tune of Rs 966 crore“. According to the CBI chargesheet, the banks include Punjab National Bank, Syndicate Bank,  , United Bank of India and Union Bank of India.
 
 However, the ED claims Choudhary actually cheated at least 25 banks in the same manner, causing a loss of Rs 2,650 crore.
 
 “Vijay Choudhary was the mastermind and with the help of a chartered accountant, Sharad Kabra, he cheated the Indian banks and siphoned off public funds outside the country ,“ the ED said. The money was laundered to acquire properties abroad.
 
