Stop Moral Policing, Principal, Does Maharaja’s Need a Moral Police Principal still?’ screams a huge poster stuck on the main gate of the  . 

 ‘We won’t be intimidated by your moral policing tactics, we will only grow more powerful’, says another of the many posters stuck all over the walls of the campus.
 
 Since when did the Maharajas College, once known as the epitome of free thinking and liberation, have to fight for freedom? The incident in question occurred a week back, say students of the college, who are still seething with anger. It was just another day in the campus and a group of students were hanging around as usual at the most popular hangout spot of the College, the ‘centre’. “There were two girls and a few boys from the Hindi Dept, and a few boys from the Malayalam Dept,” recounts Ganga Kalappat, lady representative of the student’s union to whom the students later complained. “All of a sudden, the Principal Prof N L Beena stormed in and asked the boys to leave. She then asked the two girls to come with her, and took them to a general class going on. And then, in front of the entire class and the teacher, she asked the two girls, aankuttikalude choodu pattanano collegil varunnathu?” loosely translated as “Do you come here to get cosy with boys?”
 
 The student community rose in protest, which has turned violent now. They ask: ‘Is this the way a respectable institution treats its students?’ and ‘Where is the justice in letting the boys off and targeting only the girls?’ The students have been getting immense social media support as well, with alumni of the college like Aashiq Abu speaking for them.
 
 When contacted, the Principal played down the matter dismissing it as “rubbish”. However, Thursday’s incident is not an isolated one, allege students, adding that there has been a deliberate effort from the part of the Principal to portray all relationships between the opposite sexes in a derogatory manner. In the last two years, they say, they have lost count of the number of times they have had to rebel against the allegedly autocratic principal. A group of students are also demanding that the Principal steps down and are in the process of preparing a memorandum for the same. While the college management may worry about the lack of discipline among the students, “Where is the line between disciplining and moral policing? Does being the head of an institution mean that one can subject students to abuse?” ask students. Trivandrum Times explores
 
 
 
 
 Amal Neerad, ex-student, filmmaker
 
 It’s funny that the Principal is wielding her power with non-issues like a poster on the wall or boys and girls sitting together when there are real issues, like the deplorable hostel the students live in. It’s worse than a refugee camp with no water or electricity and there is no single toilet in the campus which girls can use comfortably. But they have nothing to say about all that, while they go about victimising students and handing them over to the police. The Maharajas College was a place where we competed with colleges with facilities in youth festivals and won prizes, with bucket collections and sheer will power. We were the big time examples of underdogs. And we had teachers who refused to obey the orders of a Principal who tried to make attendance compulsory. We also had teachers and Principals who never allowed a police officer to step inside the campus, who told them, ‘We know how to deal with our students’. We were the products of such teachers and we were proud of them and vice versa. They knew our poverty, but they could provide us with high thinking if not the facilities. Now the students seem to get neither which pains me deeply.
  
 
 
 
 Aswin P Dinesh, college chairman
 
 This in an Arts and Science College where you can’t force students using iron rules to sit inside classrooms. Two music students who were behind the   song, were not allowed to sit for the exams citing lack of attendance. Do you force music students to sit inside the classroom or do you encourage them to bring out the musician in them? Also, if a teacher is really good, you won’t find many students cutting classes. There are no rules against friendships or love in this campus. If at all a student crosses the boundary, the Principal can reprimand them but not in this manner, in a manner suited to a principal, a respected lady. There have been many more instances of the Principal turning moral police but many don’t complain, in fear. Once she circulated a picture of a lady staff editor talking to male students and interpreted it in a sleazy manner. Also, police were called in against students who played football once, who burst crackers once. We want the Principal to be removed and are collecting signatures for a 
 petition to be sent to the education minister. 
 
 
 
 
 Omal Aloysuis, Staff Advisor
 
 The impression of the college outside is that it’s a drug den and all the students are involved in immoral activities. But just like in society, there might be 10 or 50 who are bad, out of 2,500. However, the principal treats every one as a suspect. The students today, girls and boys, sit together and may hold hands. They do it openly and they don’t see anything wrong in it. Once the principal asked some students, ‘does this place belong to your father?’ She also referred to them as ‘flies’ once. Actually the students are OK if you talk to them with respect. They should be made to attend classes, yes, they should be disciplined, yes, but not in a disrespectful manner. The culture of Maharajas is being threatened now as arts and sports are not given any importance now. The All Kerala Government College Teachers Association has raised a complaint against the principal.
 
 
 
 
 Anju Mary Joseph, Student
 
 The said incident happened in this area called the centre, the most crowded place in the campus. How can a boy and girl do something sleazy there? And if at all someone crosses the lines, we have an internal system where they will be told off by other students themselves. The principal was biased against the students even before she came. There is no rule that students shouldn’t sit together. In the classrooms, they sit together and learn. 
 
 
 
 
 Joy Mathew, actor, director
 
 The problems begin with the segregation of girls and boys at school level. I studied in a boy’s school and so did many from my generation. We were at a loss when we had to deal with girls. The said teacher might have had such a past, we don’t know. But kids today study in mixed schools and they have best friends from the opposite sex. The old generation might be taking out their frustrations on the young kids for having a good time with the opposite sex, something which they never experienced. Also, a teacher thinks they have power over the students and some use this power to suppress students. The Maharajas College is a heritage monument, a cultural symbol where greats like Changampuzha studied. It’s sad it seems to have such a cultureless principal. Whatever the provocation she shouldn’t have used such foul language.
 
 
 
 Ganga A Kalappat, Lady Representative, College Union
 
 If it was academic excellence that the principal wanted, these are not the words she should have used. These words were intended to deliberately hurt them. And interestingly, the principal didn’t dare to tell off the boys, because she knew very well that there would be repercussions, if she said the same words to them. This is not the first time such accusations have been levelled at students. Once a group of girls and boys who were eating together were sent off by the principal, who threatened to call their parents. It seems there is an effort to make it like under a private management. Whoever speaks for the students are also targeted.
 
 
