DALTONGANJ:   on Saturday arrested former Congress MLA   along with 55 supporters for violating prohibitory orders and leading a procession on the route of chief minister  .

 The arrested MLA and his supporters were taken to a camp jail at Parwa police station, 17km from Daltonganj by bus.
 
 Daltonganj Sadar SDO, Nancy Sahay said, “Police arrested the former MLA and his supporters on charges of violating orders. They have been booked under Sections 151 and 181 of CrPC and are detained at Parwa police station.’’ 
 
 “Tripathy had sent us a letter on Friday informing us about a procession that he was to lead on Saturday. The administration then asked him to submit a route map of his procession. He gave us a chart of the route that included Chhoumuhan and Kutchery. The district administration objected to it as these two areas fell on the route of the chief minister who was visiting here on Saturday. The administration asked him to avoid these two places. But the MLA attempted to take out his procession along the prohibited route on Saturday. They have been arrested for violation of the magistrate order,” Sahay said.
 
 Chief minister Raghubar Das reached Daltonganj on Saturday to attend the working committee meeting of BJP. 
 
 Tripathy alleged that the district administration arrested him and his supporters with an aim to stifle the voice of the people who are critical of the BJP rule in the state. 
 
 “The procession was to highlight the plights of jobless youths who are being victimised by a faulty employment policy of the state government. It was also a protest against inflated holding taxes and khas mahal lease premium,” Tripathy said.
 
 Sahay said Tripathy was given permission to use public address system but his supporters brought two huge   boxes along with them. She added that while the administration had given him permission to take out the procession from 8am till 10am, Tripathy wanted to be on the street for longer. 
 
 Tripathy, however, refuted the claims of the SDO and called the police action “unwarranted and unprovoked”.
 
 
