BHUBANESWAR: Crew members of AirAsia and media personnel from Malaysia took part in the weekly Ekamra Walk on Sunday. The heritage trip through the architectural treasures of   saw 35 participants, including 11 from  . 

 On April 26, the state saw its maiden direct international flight - by AirAsia to Kuala Lumpur - take off from the Biju Patnaik International Airport, fulfilling a long cherished dream of its people. The airline's crew members first visited Mukteswar, a confluence of Buddhism and Hinduism in the styles of architecture its structure has. They then walked to the seventh century Parsurameswar temple and Sampurnajaleswar, followed by Kotitirtheswar and the holy lake adjoining the Lingaraj shrine, Bindusagar.
 
 Like the crew members, the journalists from Malaysia were amazed to see the ancient architecture. "The stone carving work on the temples is outstanding. Their artistic excellence can only be gauged by seeing the monuments with your own eyes," said Salman, a scribe of the Malaysian daily,  . 
 
 The visitors watched an Odissi dance performance at the end of the walk. Students of Odissi exponent Iliena Citaristi performed unique dance numbers. For Zarina, another scribe, the dance topped off a journey into the old world warm charms of a modern city. "I did know that Bhubaneswar is the country's number one smart city but never thought it will have such a treasure of temples and monuments," she said. 
 
 On Saturday, the 11 member team had visited Ratnagiri, Lalitgiri, Udayagiri and Langudi, which comprise the Diamond Triangle of Buddhist heritage sites. After Sunday's heritage walk, the team visited Chilika for sight-seeing.
 
 Qastury Danny from Air Asia said the experience of the walk had been enriching. "There should be more detailed descriptions of the monuments so as to engage the visitors," she said, adding the Old Town is a blend of tradition and modernity.
 
 The 50th edition of   was also celebrated on Sunday. The theme of child labour was over-arching as International Day of Labour falls on May 1. A huge canvas wall was created to recollect the memories of all the earlier editions of the street festival on Janpath.
 
