PANAJI: Goa fascinated the world as a paradise with picture-postcard views of   peeking through green foliage, palm-fringed beaches and rolling green fields, but red gashes and vistas of concrete blocks are slowly eating into its greatest assets.

 Rampant excavation of hill slopes and mud-filling of khazan lands and fields by developers amid apathy of law-enforcing machinery is threatening to wipe out the state’s natural heritage — the USP of Goa’s tourism, sources said.
 
 The state government had been praised after the task force it constituted in 2007 to prepare the draft Regional Plan (RP) 2021 introduced, for the first time, a concept of ecologically sensitive zones (ESZ). The emerald state, which was and remains one of the world’s most frequented destination for its green wealth, was classified by the task force as having 80% of ESZ-I and II of its total area. 
 
 But, while the RP 2021 was being drafted, flying squads constituted by the government, as a quick-response mechanism, in both districts on May 17, 2010, to curb the destruction of hills and fields failed in their role. Their functioning during office hours, despite assurances of round-the-clock operation, was another sore point, allege activists. 
 
 “The agencies enforcing the law are either completely ineffective or party to the crime. The violations are clearly visible, but officials who are paid through our taxes do not act, and only start acting after people complain,” convener,   (GBA),   said.
 
 Most frustrated citizens may simply curse and look away, but some like Nandkumar Kamat, a member of a few government committees, keeps petitioning authorities about illegal activities. 
 
 After noticing construction activity near a hill slope at Odxel overlooking a lush green valley, he wrote to the flying squad: “The best solution is prevention. After due investigation order a complete halt to such construction and any further move in the direction to destroy the natural ambience of the beautiful Odxel valley. Environmental destruction would lead to loss of wildlife habitats and green cover, flora and fauna, massive slope instability, soil erosion and drying up of groundwater.”
 
 But the construction activity continued. He wrote again, pleading for action, but the hill slopes were ravaged by the project.
 
 A few villagers in Siolim opposed several projects in forest land and steep gradients. “These are very pristine forests, covered by dense vegetation and should be included for protection as private forests. But we did not receive any help from authorities despite our complaints,” a villager said. 
 
 The government-constituted flying squads of May 17, 2010, were empowered to issue on-the-spot “stop work” orders in cases of hill cutting or land filling being done without boards displaying town and country planning (TCP) department permissions. But, after the customary inspection and show cause notice, the activity continues.
 
 Environmentalists wring their hands in despair. “How can we keep on watching the site and continue complaining?” an activist said. They also blamed panchayat authorities at the grassroots level for being passive in discharging their role.
 
 TCP has not revoked a single licence for the offence of hill cutting. The TCP has powers to revoke any licence or development permission if facts are misrepresented or licence holders violate the law and resort to hill cutting, sources said. 
 
 TCP officials stated that the cases filed in the court take time to be resolved. “The matters are pursued in court, which are to be decided legally, and these take time,” the official said.
 
