NEW DELHI: PM   is known for keeping rigorous annual fasts new but the chief minister of   is no less.
 
  Next week, Adityanath is expected to undergo a nine day fast that he does every year to observe Chaitra   that begins on March 28.
  
  This is the time of the year  , according to close aides, eats only potatoes, fruits and food items made from buckwheat (kuttu).
  
  “There is also a vishesh puja held that is held during this time. Scholars from the Sanskrit mahavidyalaya that Maharaj (Yogi Adityanath) runs conduct this puja,” an associate of Yogi Adityanath said. The CM who took charge on Tuesday will travel to Gorakhpur next week for the puja and will keep the fast for all nine days.
  
  However, during the other Navratri that is celebrated during October, Adityanath remains confined to the Gorakhpur Math in multiple prayer and meditation sessions. One of his close aides recalled that a few years ago Aditynath had broken the tradition a few years ago when a   had occurred and had travelled to the site.
  
  Swami Chinmayanand who has been a minister in the Vajpayee cabinet explaining the importance of the worship of nine forms of Shakti during this time said, “Adityanath has been observing the fast since 1984 ever since he got the diksha from his guru.
  
  In fact he is a shakti-upasak (worshiper of Goddess Shakti). The temple of the goddess is opened only during this time for prayers.”
  
  This is also the time a grand mela is held at Devi patan in   wherein lakhs of devotees assemble to offer their prayers to goddess durga.
  
  Adityanath makes it a point to attend the temple during this time. “The temple that also comes under the Gorakhnath peeth and hence under   has stood several attacks of Muslim invaders. Every year during this time there is a sacrifice of a pig or a boar is done to mark the festival.” Swami added.
  
  “This is the time for his Anushthaan (rituals). He is very particular about them. These two fasts every year give him the energy and strength to run hundreds of institutions that his peeth runs,”a close associate said.
  
  During Navratri, PM Narendra Modi consumes warm water at intervals for the nine days. In fact he maintained his fast even during his trip to the US a few years ago.
  
  Yogi Adityanath’s aides in   also said that this is the time of the year the city is decorated well and Yogi, known as Maharaj or Baba goes and meets devotees who come to the Gorakhnath temple.
