TRICHY: Farmers from across the delta districts are sceptical on whether to take up   cultivation for the current season, as they are alleging that the state government is yet to issue any announcement on samba paddy cultivation or special packages in the midst of the prevailing political instability in the state. 

 However, officials from the agriculture department said that they were well prepared with the required seeds and fertilizers. 
 
 Out of the 11 lakh acres of farmlands across the delta districts, not even 10 per cent of farmers have taken up preparatory works for raising nursery, farmers said.
 
 “Tamil Nadu should have received 134 tmc of water from  . We have got only 34 tmc till now. Tamil Nadu government was never concerned about agriculture, farmers welfare and water. So far no hopeful announcement was made by the agriculture minister. At this juncture on what grounds are farmers to take up samba cultivation,” said S Dhanapalan, president of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association. 
 
 “Farmers suffered a lot last year as their crops withered after spending thousands of rupees. The insurance premium has not been disbursed properly to the affected farmers till now. Based on what hope will they come forward to take up samba?” he said. 
 
 “The six important departments - PWD, agriculture, finance, agri engineering,   and district administration - have been passive towards agriculture. That is why in the delta districts, which usually produces 52 per cent of the total food grains in the state, the production came down to 10 per cent last year,” he alleged. 
 
 Meanwhile, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R Vimalnathan expressed hope that the recent rain would be very helpful to the farmers to take up samba cultivation using pump sets, if the government announces a special samba package. On August 18, 2016, late chief minister   had announced a special samba package of Rs 64.3 crore. This year though the case has not been the same. 
 
 “Farmers have made their lands ready after completing ploughing owing to a good spell of rains. If the water released for the   will continue, farmers can execute their works well,” he said. 
 
 He also urged the government to do something to get the due share of water from Karnataka. “But the Tamil Nadu government doesn’t seem to be bothered about the farming sector,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, authorities from agriculture department in Trichy said that the recent spell of rain would largely benefit the farmers in non-delta areas like Manapparai, Uppiliapuram, Marungapuri, Thuraiyur, Mannachanallur. In the case of Lalgudi, farmers have already commenced preparatory works for raising nursery for samba. However, farmers relying on water from the Cauvery should wait for release of water from the Mettur reservoir, else they will not be able take up samba cultivation, they added.
 
 “Though, the government is yet to announce Samba package, we are ready with the required volume of seed - TKM 3013 and fertilizers”, a senior official said.
 
