JAIPUR: It was a happy moment for 26-year-old   whose engagement ceremony was to take place in the evening on Tuesday. He along with his friend   (19) left home in a bike to buy sweets for the function. However, Feroz never thought that this drive would never take him back to home. While returning home after buying sweets, the duo's bike was hit by a speeding low-floor bus near Kanak Ghati in Amber and the bus ran over them.

 While the driver of the bus fled, the duo lay on road profusely bleeding from heads. “They were rushed to the   where Feroz died due to excessive bleeding, internal injury and severe damage to the head," said a police official. The driver of the bus fled to avoid arrest, while passersby informed the police and ambulance and rushed the duo to hospital. Mujeeb's condition remained critical.“There was a severe damage to his vital organs, we tried to operate him but his vital parameters were not favorable," doctors said.
 
 Feroz was working at a private company and living with his family near   area of old city . Khan's uncle Mehmood Khan informed TOI that his nephew had called him in the morning.
 
 “Early in the morning, he had called me about the proposed engagement ceremony .We were all getting ready for the evening but at 12 pm, I got the news that he has been rushed to the SMS Hospital. The doctors tried to improve his condition to the level where he could be operated but his condition worsened and he died," he said. The long queues of relatives and neighbours stood outside the hospital to catch the last glimpses of Khan. Similarly , parents and relative of Mujeeb, who was being treated on another bed at the other side of the same hall of the hospital, lost all hopes when doctors said that ex cessive blood has led to serious complications.
 
 As battery of doctors and paramedical made all efforts to revive falling pulse rates, Feroz' father quietly began reciting verses, hoping for some miracle. At the spot where the accident took place, the blood soaked sweets, mainly laddos, were scattered all over the streets. “This is a very tragic accident, we will make all the efforts to ensure that driver is nabbed, but bus contractors should also be punished for their vicarious liability," added a police official.
 
