CHENNAI: As protesters lay siege on the Marina demanding ‘justice for jallikattu’, social media in Tamil Nadu went viral with discussions on a ban on aerated soft drinks of foreign origin. An offshoot of the statewide   where many called for saving all that’s homegrown, conversations and comment wars on the Internet pitched for an embargo on such soft drinks primarily in schools and colleges.

 Following the outcry, several schools and colleges, riding the jallikattu wave, across the state announced a ban on aerated drinks on their campuses. Institutions in Chennai though remained impassive to this sudden penchant for ‘pro-indigenous’ and ‘pro-farmer’ battle cry. Except for a few institutions like Velammal group of schools which told TOI on Wednesday that it has done away with aerated drinks for good from this week, replacing them with natural alternatives like buttermilk and tender coconut, none have come forward to denounce these drinks as seen in Coimbatore and Salem. This is because   appear to have long been on the no-aerated drinks bandwagon, even before the Marina protesters brought the idea into limelight. Popular schools like DAV, Lady Andal and Chettinad do not as a policy make available soft drinks on their campuses citing the ill effects they have on health.
 
 “Increased awareness among institutions may have a big role in this,” said Lata Kumar former professor at Anna University. According to her, there has been a significant increase over the past four to five years in awareness on lifestyle ailments, particularly obesity and diabetes. This could have gradually pushed for ban on aerated drinks on campuses, she said. The ministry of women and child development that last year asked all schools to avoid ‘junk food’ on campus could also be a contributing reason, Lata said.
 
 Though not many institutions abide by this, Anna University has an effective ban on aerated drinks on its campus. Even in the upcoming intercollegiate fest Techofes soft drinks are out of bounds. “We will ensure neither the canteen nor any of the stalls sell aerated drinks to students during Techofes,” said a student representative. The fest is due in the coming weeks.
 
 
