
I am a married woman and had an arranged marriage 4 months ago. I feel lonely as my husband has no time for me. Right after our honeymoon, he joined back his office and is out of town entire week and is back only during the weekend.
 
 As he has a very busy schedule, we don't get to talk on messages or calls during the week. And on Sundays, he is too tired to spend time with me. Due to his work pressure and stress, we have not been able to consummate this marriage. 
 
 We both have no prior relationship experience, so sex is new for us. We tried a couple of times but were not entirely successful. We only make-out and get intimate once or twice a week when he is home for the weekend. 
 
 We both are introverts and not good with communication. I also feel very lonely, since the person I married is not even with me, I spend more time with his parents than him. What is the point of such a marriage? 
 
 And we have discussed this issue. He says that this situation will continue only for a month or two. After that, he will be permanently be based here. But I feel we have already spent so much time apart and especially at the very beginning of our marriage, so how do we reconnect in the future?
 
 I know we have our whole life ahead but the present situation is killing me. Am I overreacting that I want to feel like a newly wed and spent time with my new husband? I feel selfish and demanding, but am I wrong? 
 
 
 
 
 There is no need to panic. In any marriage or relationship, the initial honeymoon period is almost always sweet and one is prepared for the same, but then one has to revert to one’s livelihood as well. 
 
 This is what seems to have happened in your case
 after the excitement, there seems to be nothing. Now both of you have not had any premarital sexual exposure, and in a way, you should be happy that your husband has not had anyone except you in his life. 
 
 In a way, it is also possible that after a failed attempt at sex, your husband is avoiding the same due to various reasons especially fear of another failure which can hurt the male psyche like anything. 
 
 And like you have described that he is an introvert, this could also act as a big hindrance. And it is good that you both have not given up. Also, sex is not just about sexual penetration but involves a series of acts and  . 
 
 You should stop focusing on the fact that you have not consummated your marriage. I recommend that for a start you should relax, reassure your husband and try to build up his confidence. And never say -“You have failed !” 
 
 Understand that marriage is a contract between two consenting individuals to lead a happy, productive and peaceful life leading to procreation and furtherance of progeny, which involves a lot of aspects. 
 
 Remember, the male sexual organ is a very shy thing and under performs the moment you focus on it too much. Best to leave it to a natural response. And lastly, try to discuss the whole issue with your husband. Give him an opportunity with an open mind. And if nothing works then convince him that you both consult a doctor for the same.
 
 
 
 
