BENGALURU: Setting a precedent, Byappanahalli police have booked a case of   not amounting to murder (section 304 of the IPC), a non-bailable offence — punishment for which can go up to 10 years — in connection with the deaths of three   three days ago.

 In the past, death of manual scavengers have been booked under Section 304-A (causing death by  ), conviction in which relies heavily on eye-witness accounts. As a result, few cases saw conviction. DCP (east) Ajai Hilori said: “The decision to employ section 304 for the first time in such a case and not 304-A was a conscious one.”
 
 Although the state has recorded 60 instances of manual scavenger deaths in the past nine years, not a single person has been punished. Activists have been urging the government to acknowledge the gravity of the problem. 
 
 In October 2016, TOI carried a report that highlighted the state’s failure to convict even one person, though on average, two manual scavengers died every month in eight years. In 2016, a manual scavenger died every 27 days in Karnataka.
 
 “Those who employ manual scavengers are aware that they will die, since they enter manholes without protective gear. But they send them in nevertheless. Isn’t this similar to taking a revolver and shooting randomly in the air, and killing a passerby? A case of culpable homicide is generally registered in such cases. It’s only proper that a case under this section has been registered in this instance,” said S Balan, advocate and president, All India Central Council of Trade Unions.
 
 Although the FIR was registered on Tuesday, police have not made any arrests yet. They said that efforts are being made to ensure a conviction this time.
 
 Former Karnataka DG&IG ST Ramesh said, “Some may argue the section is a bit harsh. But, when you put things in context, it isn’t. Firstly, there have been many such deaths that have not resulted in conviction, when manual scavenging is actually illegal. Secondly, those who employed them were aware of the danger, it wasn’t negligence.”
 
 “It’s a positive development. We hope that arrests are made quickly, and those guilty are not allowed to escape with anticipatory bail,” said Maitreyi Krishnan of Manthan Law, which has been working with manual scavengers.
 
 
 
 
 Queried as to why no arrests had been made yet, DCP of Bengaluru east Ajai Hilori said, “While the BBMP and BWSSB engineers are the co-accused, the contractor was responsible for cleaning the  . We will not let anybody get away. Give us a couple more days. We are building up evidence, and the results will be visible.”
 
 He added, “The contractor sent a low-level employee to surrender. We sent him back. He did not take the decision. We want to arrest those who took the decision to employ the workers.”
 
