NEW DELHI: Paving the way for multilevel parking lots for public buses, the Union urban development ministry has notified the change in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021. The government agencies can now construct a multilevel parking facility for buses along with a commercial complex.

 The modification in the master plan was made following the growing demand for parking space for public buses and direction of Environmental Pollution Control Authority. Shortage of parking space for buses has been cited as one of the main reasons by the AAP-led Delhi government for delay in expanding its DTC fleet. The government has been asking the   (DDA) to allocate land for depots.   officials say, it was decided to allow multilevel parking lots for buses.
 
 A proposal in this regard was tabled in DDA’s meeting in August 2016. After approval from various authorities, the Union urban development ministry notified the change in the MPD-2021 in January.
 
 The existing clause in the MPD-2021 allowed the construction of a bi-level parking for public buses. The land-owning agency had initiated the process to modify this clause in August last year.
 
 The modification cites scarcity of land in the city as the reason for the change in clause. “Land is scarce and efficient use of land for bus parking is essential. At the same time, in order to reduce dead mileage and making buses travel to locations outside the city to depots in large plots of land, it is more desirable to provide them parking within developed urban areas in multi-use multilevel parking facilities,” according to the modified clause.
 
 DDA officials say that provision for commercial component has been made so that government agencies can recover the cost of construction and maintenance of the structure. “Just like other parking lot projects, the agency which constructs these parking lots can either sell or rent commercial space in the parking lots,” said a DDA official.
 
 DTC is already working on the project to construct multilevel parking lots at seven of its depots. Officials say, it plans to develop similar facility at 31 other depots. As part of the pilot project, DTC had roped in PWD to construct the first multilevel parking project at   depot. But the project is yet to start.
 
 DTC had also asked DSIIDC to construct commercial-cum-parking projects at its headquarters in IP Extension and Rajghat depot. DSIIDC officials say, the IP extension project is in the advance stages of planning.
 
