KOLHAPUR: The state government has increased the   (RR) rates for   ( ) areas by an average of 3%, while the hike in the district has been an average of 7.3% for this fiscal.

 The developers claimed that it is the lowest-ever hike in the RR rates in recent years. Last year, the RR rates had gone up by average of 10% in the city, while there was no change in 2015. In 2014, the RR rates increased by average 15% and property rates increased by average Rs 400 per square feet in Kolhapur.
 
 The RR rates are the market value of the land and the construction, based on which several taxes are calculated. 
 
 The RR rates are directly linked to the development charges, premiums to use floor space index, property tax by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Also, the higher the RR rates, the higher the stamp duty to be paid by the builders to the government. 
 
 For the influential areas, where the demand for construction activities is the highest, the RR rates have been kept to 10.63%. 
 
 The increase of the RR rates in influential areas will restrain the developers from taking up projects in these areas. 
 
 The rates vary from area to are depending on the kind of locality and the government earns over Rs 20,000 crore annually through stamp duty and registration fees. The variation in the rates is due to the demand of the construction activities. As the demand goes up, the RR rates need to come down to bring in more construction in the particular areas. 
 
 Mahesh Yadav, president of  , said they had requested the government not to change the rates as the sector is facing slag. “We had demanded lowering of the stamp duty rates for the affordable housing scheme. We do not have any information regarding any change made in the stamp duty rates. The decision have minimal hike in RR rates will boost construction activities and will attract more customers.” 
 
 Last year,   had emerged as the costliest area in the city as far as the RR rates of residential and commercial properties were concerned. 
 
 The rates of residential properties in Gujari have jumped to Rs 55,280 per sq m, while the commercial properties will cost Rs 1,37,560 per sq m.
 
