CHENNAI: As the extent of the   caused by the collision of   off the   in Chennai dawned on the authorities a week after the incident, multiple agencies stepped in to probe the accident. While the Chennai Port and police impounded both vessels, one of them registered abroad, the Madras high court said the government must take urgent action in this regard. The Chennai police have registered an FIR in connection with the collision and the oil spill, and issued a formal request to the port authorities not to allow the ships to sail away. The crew members too have been told not to leave without permission.

 The development has come moments after the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar said urgent action should be taken by the government. Chairman and managing director of Chennai Port Trust M A Bhaskarachar said: “The two ships have been impounded. The director-general of shipping (DGS), among others, is probing the accident.“ It all began on January 28 when BW Maple rammed an Indian vessel MT Kancheepuram at right angle near the anchorage of the Ennore Port. The crash triggered an oil spill, the quantum of which has still not been officially assessed. Though port authorities initially dismissed it as a minor incident in which just a tonne of oil got spilled into the sea, the magnitude of the environmental disaster the spill could cause became evident when sheets of sludge started moving all along the Chennai coast.
 
 A PIL petition in the Madras high court highlighted the `polluter pays' principle, and said unless the foreign ship was detained, its owners and insurers would not come forward for negotiations and foot the clean-up bill. It wanted the state and central governments to take immediate action, as the livelihood of fishermen had been adversely affected and marine ecology badly threatened.
 
 Passing orders on the PIL of M E Raja, president, National Union of Fishermen, the court refrained from issuing any direction, but said: “We are of the view that no direction can be issued in the matter, except to observe that the state government may look into the issue urgently to take such steps as deemed proper in the given situation, especially keeping in mind that as per the petitioner there have been some recent developments in terms of registration of FIR and some action post-filing of the petition.“
 
 The bench also recorded the petitioner's anxiety about the foreign vessel involved in the collision, and said, “the apprehension of the petitioner is that if the ship crosses Indian territorial waters, the government may not be able to recover anything.“ Noting that a related matter had been filed before the Madras bench of the   (NGT), the first bench said, “this, of course, in no manner absolves the government of the responsibility of taking necessary steps to remove the pollutant.“
 
 In his petition, Raja wanted a direction to state and central government authorities to take action against the two ships which had caused the accident on January 28. He sought to recover costs from the erring vessels in order to protect the interests of Indian fishermen and marine lives. The PIL pointed out that BW Maple had been insured with an elite international insurance company , and that unless the vessel is taken into custody , its owners and insurers would not come for negotiations or payment of compensation.
 
 Indian authorities lack even the basic and rudimentary facilities to pump out the oil spill and only haphazard steps have been taken so far, resulting in the spill spreading to other areas as well, he said. Inexperienced workers engaged in the clean-up operation faced a big health risk.Even though on paper India had a National Oil Spill Disaster Contingency Plan as early as 1996, and updated since 2015, no proper mechanism has been implemented to initiate immediate action to stop the oil spill or spread at sea.
 
