BENGALURU:  , the   developed at a cost of Rs 10.78 crore in 2015, is being dug up again. Slabs have been removed and so have   at the   where work on fixing a faulty 220-KV power line running below the road is under way. 

 Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) started the work 20 days ago and it is likely to go on for a few more days. 
 
 When TenderSURE project was implemented, the BBMP had claimed that dedicated corridors would be created below footpaths to lay conduits of essential amenities such as electricity, water, sewage and telecom service to avoid excavating the roads for repair. But how is that the city’s first-ever TenderSURE road left the power   under the middle of the road?
 
 Basavaraj Kabade, executive engineer,  , BBMP, told TOI that they couldn’t shift the line while implementing the TenderSURE works as it would have cost them Rs 50 to Rs 60 crore. 
 
 “Though we wanted to shift the line, the cost factor came as a hindrance. Since the line is 1.5 metrs below the road, it didn’t affect our works and we completed the project. Now, we had to give permission to KPTCL for road digging because the fixing of the line is important as it’s a crucial alternative source to ensure uninterrupted power supply to Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and the high court among other places. Also, the line is the alternative source for trains running on the east-west corridor from Byappanahalli to Mysuru Road ,” he added.
 
 G R Chandrashekariaiah, chief engineer (electricity), Bengaluru zone, KPTCL, said the line below St Mark’s Road median is a vital supply line connecting Anand Rao Circle station to the east division station on Museum Road. 
 
 “We had to repair it as it’s the only alternative source for key installations like Vidhana Soudha and Metro services. During TenderSURE works we did shift smaller power utilities but shifting of 220KV line called for huge spending. After getting permission from BBMP we started fixing the problem in the point below the median 20 days ago. We are done with the work but a chamber needs to be created there to give us space to look into the line in case the problem resurfaces. We have also paid Rs 5 lakh to the BBMP as damage-recovery charge. We need to dig this road whenever power lines develop problem,” he added.
 
 A KPTCL official said the 220KV power line between Anand Rao Circle and the east division station has eight points and the one below St Mark’s Road median is one such point. “We had to get utility parts and experts from Korea to fix it. Also, since it’s a high voltage line we had to execute work during non-peak hours,” he added.
 
 Asked about what if other parts of the power line below St Mark’s Road median or Museum Road develop snags in future, the officer said they have no option but to dig up the road.
 
 Sources in the BBMP said even after the KPTCL completes its power line works, it would take at least two weeks for them to restore the median to its original shape.
 
