He first appeared a month back, like out of nowhere. A huge brown cuddly bear perched on a tree. It was a normal Monday morning, on our way to school on my Basanti, my scooty. Mondays are always sleepy, but this particular one was extra dull with junior (my son) almost dozing off, clinging to my tummy from the back seat. Till he shouted. "Mom! Check that!". I lifted my helmet pane irritatedly, sure that he had spotted a favourite pug or dalmatian on the way, or rather one who was wearing a raincoat thanks to his owner's extra doze of love. Whoever made their pets wear clothes were mad, I grumbled. "Sooo cute!" Another shriek made me really pull the brakes. And there we saw 'Him'. A grizzly brown   perched on a tree at the side of the road. I was sure I wasn't out of bed yet and was running terribly late. Till junior tapped my arm, and I was convinced I wasn't dreaming. "Oh c'mon it may be a child's prank. We are running late!"
 
  I packed off a super excited six-year-old to school and stared at the bear again on my way back, this time with suspicion. What if it was a bomb? It's a scary wary world these days. Or maybe an unwanted toy discarded by a frustrated mom like me, who needed some place to walk in a house over-crammed with  . The road cleaner will then take it away, I calmed my fear.
  
  But, there he was again - at 3 pm on the way home from school. Same tree, same position. It literally looked like a toy from Enid Blyton's book that had run away at night from the toy nursery. Sitting on a tree, it's furry arms wrapped around the branches, it looked surreal. We drove past, an excited 6-year-old blowing kisses to a weird huge teddy perched on a tree in the middle of nowhere.
  
  He was there again next morning, almost appearing to be smiling at us. And then it started - piteous requests to take the old dirty bear home. "You have 18 soft toys to be precise! And you want a tattered old thing which could probably blast if a kid touched it?" I blasted while junior sobbed. Finally, we made a deal. No, the teddy wasn't coming home whatever. But we were going to take the same road to school daily (and no alternate ones despite traffic jams), blow kisses to him, and yeah, we were going to call him Miku, not the 'dirty old bear'.
  
  So now, mornings were cheerful and happy, Monday or Friday, and Miku was always waiting on the tree for us. We frowned when he looked wet due to the previous night's rain, and gasped when he slipped slightly downward from a branch. We chattered endlessly about him and his nasty owner, who may have discarded him on our drives to school and home. But little did my own cub know that my anxiety would come true one day.
  
  One fateful afternoon, while I was enroute school, I missed a heartbeat. Miku was missing from the tree. I looked around till I saw him on the can of garbage picked up by the road cleaner. The size that he was, he looked like a little child sleeping inside the can. I didn't know how to face my son, and for the first time the Math test outcome didn't matter any more. "What happened Momma? Sinus again?" I stroked his brown hair and pointed to the empty tree first and then to the garbage truck taking away Miku. Junior stared at the scene without batting an eye lid, while a tear dropped off my own. We drove silently home. As he entered the house, my own little bear fell into mommy's arms. "He's going to a poor kid's house isn't it momma, and be his plaything?" I nodded, glad that my child was learning to accept. "But we will meet him someday won't we?" I hoped so, as I saw him go and hug his own 18 soft toys.
  
  Some stories or incidents don't have morals. Like this one. But they teach us gratitude. Thank you, Miku, for helping us appreciate our mornings. For making the journey beautiful. For helping my child understand the value of belonging and appreciation. I wonder if we will ever see you again, though my little one is sure we will. But you will always remain in our hearts, and our memories as - the teddy on the tree.
  
  
 
