PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Not only Pune and   residents, but those who dropped in from as far as Rajasthan, Delhi and Hyderabad to attend the   event, experienced a great Sunday outing with friends and family. 

 The first outing of Happy Streets in Pimple Saudagar was held at Nashik Phata-Wakad BRTS between Kokane chowk and Swaraj chowk. People of all age groups tried out a whole range of fun and fitness activities between 6.30am and 9.30am.
 
 Lt Col T Haresh said, “I came with my family from Rajasthan to spend the summer vacation at my parents’ who here in Pimple Saudagar. It was one of my best experiences. I got to spend the entire Sunday morning with my family. My parents joined us for a walk on the vehicle-free stretch and ended up enjoying more activities. Such a community event should be held in all parts of Pimpri Chinchwad city like Wakad and Hinjewadi. This also motivates people to wake up early and indulge in fitness activities.”
 
 His wife Harsha said, “Our morning was lit up by Happy Streets. My son enjoyed cycling the most.”
 
 Heenu Dhar, a New Delhi resident, was thrilled to be in the city. “There are no such events in New Delhi. Life is extremely stressful in metro cities. Happy Streets is a good stress buster. It is wonderful to see children, teenagers, youths and senior citizens enjoy at one place.”
 
 Dhar left Pimple Saudagar in 2009 after her marriage. She has now returned to complete her Ph.D degree. “I am staying with my parents here,” she said.
 
  of Hyderabad had come with her four-year-old son and sister-in-law. She enjoyed a good game of badminton and also made a run at zumba.
 
 IT professional Prashant Ahire, a Pimple Saudagar resident was looking forward to attending Happy Streets. He had a great time playing table tennis, set up by the Pimpri Chinchwad Table Tennis Association. “I play regularly at my office. This event has something in store for each one,” he said.
 
 The Pune Metro booth attracted a huge crowd. People penned down their views on the upcoming facility. They also wrote various slogans on placards and got clicked with them.
 
 Happy Streets is organised by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with the Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation to popularise vehicle-free roads and community endeavours
 
