 is someone who wears many hats -actor, director, lyricist, screenplay writer, voice over artiste, and recently she made her television re-entry with  , as an anchor. She talks to us about her passion, movies and more...

 
 
 
 I am kicked about hosting this show as it showcases new talents. There are several people around, who believe in themselves and create short films. We give opportunity to such aspiring filmmakers. We select the short films based on their popularity and also from the direct entries we receive. We try to showcase their talent to a larger audience out there. A team does the selection process.
 
 
 
 I faced the camera when I was just five. I was destined for films but I am really proud that I am part of the cinema industry and happy that I could contribute something to it. Over the years, I have evolved and I have tried my hands at different aspects, such as writing screenplays, lyrics and recently into direction.After seeing my work, Gautham Menon wanted me to write the lyrics for a song in Pachaikili Muthucharam. Later, I wrote the lyrics for all the songs in Maalai Pozhudhin Mayakathilaey. However, my first love was, is and always will be acting.
 
 
 While as a writer I could write about the world around me and what affected me, somewhere I found that there had been a restraint. I started thinking of direction and I realised that I could fantasise and create a beautiful world through movies. I researched about direction and that's how I ended up in my directorial venture,  . It's a realistic movie based on a true incident about a young boy .
 
 
 
 Yes, of course. Of late, Indian filmmakers have started experimenting with varied subjects other than the relationship between man and woman. They have been accepted and celebrated, too.Tamil cinema is no different and at present, there is a lot of scope for realistic films. There's a healthy trend in Kollywood, too.
 
 
 ...
 (Laughs) In fact, as per the agreement, I was not part of the was not part of the second part at all. However, Rajamouli sir felt that it would be nice to have me in the concluding scenes to give it a logical ending. While I shot extensively for the first part, I had only two to three days of shoot for the second one. Rajamouli sir is a director who does meticulous planning and someone who toils till he gets the right shot.
 
 
 
 I take up movies that interest me. I am active in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. But my criterion of selection is not the language but how much importance my character has in the film. Also, I am a character artiste now, and often my schedule gets over in less than 20 days. So, it's not tough to act in multiple industries.
 
 
 
 I am not someone who is confined only to acting and I am interested in several other areas in the industry .Social media helps me to contact the audience directly and it offers me the right space to express myself in my other areas of interest. Though I don't post my opinion on a daily basis on social media, I am active on FB and Twitter. 
 
