NEW DELHI: A day after a section of students, holding a protest on the first death anniversary of University of Hyderabad scholar  , were allegedly manhandled by policemen, the issue reverberated in the assembly.

 AAP MLAs lashed out at PM   and   over two TOI photographs, showing students being dragged by cops as they tried to march towards  .
 
 The House adopted a resolution demanding action against officials involved in the act. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia warned that the “attack” on students would not be “tolerated”. He said the Delhi government would do whatever it can to protect the rights of the students and if the need arises, AAP will hit the streets to raise its voice against such atrocities.
 
 The assembly session saw AAP MLAs displaying copies of the TOI photographs and demanding action against the cops. The House demanded “that the minister of home affairs initiate immediate action against the officers responsible for such inhuman attack on innocent protesters from JNU and other institutions”.
 
 The House strongly condemned manhandling of girl students by male police personnel. “Delhi is the capital of the country and if something like this happens here, it will not be tolerated. Everybody has a right to hold non-violent protest. If students, especially Dalits, are assaulted for holding protests, it will not be tolerated,” said Sisodia. 
 
 There was furore in the House over remarks by leader of the opposition Vijender Gupta. After the AAP MLAs had spoken about the attack on protesting students on Wednesday, Gupta alleged that the Delhi government was not serious about welfare of Dalits and accused it of politicising the issue. 
 
 His words evoked angry responses from AAP MLAs who felt he was trying to make light of the situation. They raised slogans against the PM and Gupta and asked speaker Ram Niwas Goel to suspend Gupta from the House if he failed to apologise. The House had to be adjourned and when it re-assembled, the speaker ruled that Gupta’s utterances be expunged from the proceedings.
 
 Attacking AAP, Gupta later said, “It (AAP government) has misused Rs 900 crore of labour welfare funds by illegally diverting it...The government has also failed to recover funds meant for Dalit welfare diverted by the previous government,” he alleged. Sisodia hit back, saying, “The CBI is with the Central government, so is the ACB. What is stopping them from investigating the previous government’s doings. Also how does this example explain the brutal attacks by police on students?”
 
 
