THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When   (KWA) is taking note of even the slightest fall of   in Peppara, the water level at Neyyar, too is dipping at an alarming rate. As there is a dip in water level, top officials of KWA and the irrigation department conducted a joint inspection on Wednesday.

 Following the inspection, KWA officials have decided to further extend the length of pipes connected to the centrifugal pumps at Neyyar. Works to extend the pipes are in progress at Neyyar as on Wednesday.
 
 The current water level at   is 73.35 metres. Water available at Neyyar dam is 10.55 million meter cube. Water can be drawn up to the point where it dips to 2 million meter cube. However, due to pumping for drinking purposes and opening of canals for irrigation, water is depleting at a faster rate. This will create crisis with regard to operation of pumps at Neyyar. 
 
 Sources said that there is a difference of opinion among officials of the irrigation department on whether to give priority for irrigation or drinking water as they are facing protest from farmers at Neyyatinkara taluk. KWA sources said that they might ask irrigation department to close the canals as they are drawing water at a faster rate.
 
 “Irrigation officials said that they would keep the canals open for another week. If it is extended for more than a week, we won’t be able to operate centrifugal pump after that. There is a 1.25 metre dip in the level where pipes of centrifugal pumps are laid. Pipes of centrifugal pumps cannot function at that level,” KWA officials said.
 
 On the issue of exploitation of water raised by Menamkulam residents against Kinfra International Apparel Park (KIAP), district collector S Venkatesapathy has decided to conduct a visit to the site on Friday. The protesters have temporarily withdrawn agitation till district administration takes a decision on allegation of exploitation of water and pollution of water bodies. “I will visit KIAP with a team of experts on Friday. A decision will be taken only after that,” collector said.
 
 
