THANE: As political parties are geared up to start campaigning for the  , few disgruntled aspirants across parties have resorted to a rebellion accusing senior leaders of choosing the rich and famous aspirants thus sidelining the loyal and dedicated workers. 

 The fear of last minute defections forced major parties to withhold the announcement of candidates for the forthcoming civic elections and announce the same at the last minute. However, the plan seemed to have boomeranged with few established ones deserting the party while others deciding to contest solo causing visible embarrassment for party leadership.
 
 The last two days saw several aspirants and rebels across parties venting their ire over the apparent faulty choice of candidates to contest the polls in certain wards. The latest to voice their dissent are around 20 office-bearers of the BJP's city unit including former deputy mayor Subhash Kale, secretary of Thane unit Shashi Yadav, among others today who resigned from their respective posts. The rebels protested the 'high handedness' of party leaders by ignoring 'loyal and dedicated' ones.
 
 "Fadnavis had announced that only loyal activists and those with elective merit would be chosen for tickets and transparency will be maintained in the process. However, all his orders have been flouted while choosing the candidates. Most of us were promised a ticket, but the same was gifted to others who recently defected from other parties or form adjoining wards completely ignoring loyal karyakartas," echoed the office bearers, who jointly addressed a press conference today.
 
 It may be noted that few workers had clashed outside the BJP's Khopat office during the ticket distribution on January 3 midnight alleging foul play in the allotment of tickets. Senior leader Sanjay Ghadigaonkar had also announced his resignation from the party over the same reason few days back only to return to the party hours after his decision. The leader is, however, planning to withdraw from the race and allow his wife to contest the BJP seat from ward 17.
 
 Meanwhile, the party has apparently dispatched few senior leaders from the RSS to Thane and also deputed   to iron out issues ahead of polls so as to avoid any possible embarrassment that could be latched on by rivals ahead of the polls.
 
 Staunch Shiv Sena loyalist and former corporator Chandragupt Ghag also known for his proximity to MLA Eknath Shinde also alleged foul play when a ticket from Kisan Nagar was given to Shinde's sibling. Another rebel from the party Vilas Dhamale had staged a protest outside the party office and is believed to have been publicly expressing his angst against the dynasty rule in the party. A sitting Sena corporator Sneha Patil also joined the   soon after she realized she was denied a seat.
 
 Interestingly, the NCP and Congress camp seems to be silent despite murmurs of few upset aspirants contesting independently at the last minute. A sitting corporator who has also been issued a ticket is also upset with the flip-flops by the parties and could consider walking out and contesting solo, said an aide.
 
