BENGALURU:   has struck a joint venture with the   family, pioneers in the Indian software exports industry, to build an e-commerce and customer services platform as part of the online retail giant’s expansion plans in the country.

 Apoorva Patni, son of Patni Computer founder Ashok Patni, will own a 51% stake, while Amazon Asia Pacific Holdings will have a 49% in Frontizo Business Services, which began operations recently. Three years ago, Amazon had forged a similar JV with   founder N R Narayana Murthy’s family office Catamaran Ventures called Cloudtail. The entity has now emerged as the largest seller on  .
 
 The Seattle-based e-commerce behemoth’s move to have another seller (with close links to the company) will reduce its dependence on Cloudtail. A single seller cannot have over 25% of total sales for any online retailer, according to rules which came into effect last year.
 
 Documents filed with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) show Frontizo has received around Rs 197 crore in capital over the last three months in two tranches. In August, the Bengaluru-based Frontizo also approved a capital infusion of Rs 40 crore for Appario Retail, which is the seller entity on Amazon.
 
 When contacted by TOI, an Amazon Asia spokesperson confirmed the development. “The JV has been set up to strengthen our customer services in India and to raise the bar of the online shopping experience. The partnership with the Patni group is the next step in our strong ramp up to support Amazon’s vision to transform the way India buys and sells. The Patnis have a strong track record of building large scale operations for IT-enabled services (ITeS) and understanding of India as a market. Their experience is deep in both B2B and B2C domains and cuts across sectors, including ITeS and healthcare,” the spokesperson said. Another spokesperson for Frontizo confirmed having Appario as its wholly owned subsidiary.
 
 Currently, the JV firm is largely focused on building multichannel customer support services for Amazon while Appario is expected to scale its prominence on the platform gradually. The core objective of the JV is to strengthen Amazon’s customer service and redefine the way India buys and sells, said people directly aware of the deal who did not want to be quoted.
 
