NEW DELHI: Glenn Maxwell and David Miller lived up to their respective reputations to steer   to a comfortable six wickets win against   in their Indian Premier League 2017 opener in Indore on Saturday. Chasing 164, on a two-paced wicket, KXIP felt early jitters before Maxwell and Miller combined for an unbeaten partnership worth 79 runs to steer the chase. 

 Here's a look at the major turning points of the match:
 
 
 Sandeep Sharma, as he is known, made an early breakthrough for KXIP. In the first over of the match, Sandeep let slip an inswinger that Mayank Agarwal failed to cover properly as he came across and allowed the ball to sneak through his defences and crash on the stumps. A four-ball duck for the opener. KXIP could have made further inroads had Vohra hold on to Ajinkya Rahane's catch at cover off Mohit Sharma. Rahane got a leading edge which ballooned to cover where Vohra ran backwards and spilled it at the last moment. It wasn't his catch though as Natrajan, the debutant, was better placed for it. Meanwhile, Rahane rubbed salt on Mohit's wounds by depositing him for a six over short fine leg region and a four to third man off successive deliveries in the same over.
 
 But the two stars of Pune's opening match win against Mumbai Indians, Rahane and captain Steve Smith were soon back in the dugout within the nine overs. Debutant T Natrajan was given a go after the end of the Powerplay overs and the left-arm medium struck gold with his second delivery, getting the prized scalp of Rahane. A short and wide delivery from Natrajan and Rahane's eyes lit up, he went for the aerial route to send it over cover but failed to execute it properly to find Marcus Stoinis at deep cover and was caught for 19. Smith then gave some lessons to the young bowler, unfurling a sumptuous straight drive for a four in the same over. But then, he played one shot too many after completely mistiming a leg glance against Stoinis that went flying to deep square leg region where Vohra completed a well-judged catch to end his knock at 26.
 
 
 Ben Stokes seemed to be Pune's only hope after the dismissal of Rahane, Smith and MS Dhoni cheaply. He kept his side in the contest, punishing poor deliveries. Left-arm spinner Axar Patel had bowled his first two overs for just nine runs. Stokes ruined his figures by pulling him for a four to deep midwicket and following that with a six over his head in the third over. Manoj Tiwary too recorded his attendance with slice over point region that went all the way sailing into the stands for a maximum.
 
 Stokes led Pune's recovery with a maiden IPL fifty that came off 30 balls. However, right after he had reached the milestone, Axar frustrated him with an outside off line as the Englishman aimed for the on-side. It was one such delivery that led to his downfall. Aiming to crash the third delivery over the covers, he only managed to connect the toe-end of his bat with the ball and it went went flying back to the bowler who accepted the catch gleefully. He scored 32-ball 50. 
 
 
 A late cameo from Daniel Christian and a solid innings from Tiwary helped Pune to a competitive 163/6. They scored 63 runs in their first 10 overs but made for it in the next half, adding 100 more. The recovery began after Stokes and Tiwary got together to add 61 runs in 6.1 overs. With the wicket of Stokes, it looked KXIP will restrict them under 150 but Tiwary creamed Mohit Sharma for a six and a four in the penultimate over to take 14 runs from it and then in the final, Christian came into his own, clattering Sandeep for two fours and a six before holing out to Glenn Maxwell at long-on.
 
 
 KXIP's chase began on a brisk note with openers Hashim Amla and Vohra hitting three fours between them in the first two overs. Vohra was the more adventurous of the duo, hitting Ashok Dinda for a straight six in the third over. Dinda though had the last laugh, removing him later in the same over. Vohra gave him the charge and the bowler spotted. He bowled it shorter and the batsman was cramped for room but still went with the pull shot. The ball went high to deep square leg where Manoj Tiwary moved to his left and completed a good catch. Vohra scored 14. Then came Wriddhiman Saha at no 3 and quickly started making an impact with three fours in eight balls but Imran Tahir outfoxed him. A googly from the legspinner and Saha had no answer. He remained rooted to the crease, failing to read the delivery with the ball crashing on the stumps. He scored 14 off 9. 
 Surprisingly, Axar Patel, a lower order batsman, walked in at no 4. Since the end of Powerplay overs, Amla and Axar failed to accelerate at will. Steve Smith employed four different bowlers post the lifting of fielding restrictions. And in them came just 17 runs. Although, Punjab scored 10 runs more than what Pune had managed at the halfway stage, the climbing run-rate must have been a concern.
 
 
 After the run-rate had slowed down, the departure of Amla and Axar came as a blessing in disguise for KXIP. Their dismissal brought together captain Glenn Maxwell and David Miller to the middle. And they went about their business to dismantle Pune attack. Together, they added 79 runs in an unbroken stand for the fifth wicket with Maxwell hitting the winning run on the final delivery of the 19th over. With four sixes and two fours, Maxwell led from the front, scoring an unbeaten 44 of 20 balls and was well supported by Miller (30*). 
 
