THRISSUR: In an apparent defiance of the decision of two major  , two catholic women belonging to the   (SMC) washed the feet of the people in an open street corner in the city on Thursday afternoon.

 The SMC and Syro-Malankara Church of Kerala had said this year also they will not allow women to participate in the washing-of-the-feet ceremony on Maundy Thursday, despite Pope Francis' decree to include women and people of other faiths in the ritual. There were reports earlier that these two major churches of Kerala were also considering the option of permitting the women to participate in the ritual that comes ahead of Easter.
 
 However, both these churches chose to continue with their earlier practice of not including the women in this annual ritual which is a re-enactment of Jesus   of his 12 disciples during the Last Supper.
 
 Activist-writer Rosy Thampi, one of the organisers of the rebel act under the banner of the activists' group 'Naveekarana Vedi', said excluding women from such a ritual is an expression of the male-dominant attitude prevailing in the church even now. "The laws are made for the people and the changes in the society cannot be ignored for a dogmatic adherence to the literal meanings of the words in the law," she said.
 
 Echoing similar views social activist Lilly Thomas, who is the other organizer, said the role of the women in the church, particularly in Kerala, is confined to "Paying (giving donations), praying and obeying" even now. "The church must give equal positions and opportunities to women at the earliest," said Lilly who had held several positions in Church-related organisations and secular institutions. 
 
 Asked about the observations of the Mar George Cardinal Alanchery, the major archbishop of the SMC, the papal decree was against the traditions followed by the Eastern Churches, she said the Pope is the supreme head of the global church, and his decrees cannot be selectively implemented.
 
 Rosy said the "washing the feet" ritual organised by them had a special significance in the context of the widespread discriminations and oppressions against women happening in different parts of the country and outside. The two women washed the feet of some, activists like P J Antony, T K Vasu, Sheeba Ameer and, Kusumam Joseph as well as some girls. They also washed the feet of Faizal, who is a member of the transgender community.
 
 When contacted, noted theologian and former spokesperson of the SMC Father Paul Thelekkatt said the action of the two catholic women should be taken in the right spirit by the church. It is an expression of the protest among some sections in the community, against the exclusion of women from the "washing the feet" ritual. The church need not get agitated by such actions, he said.
 
