Greater Noida: With the integrated traffic management system (ITMS) having missed its deadline, and with the traffic police facing a staff crunch, the police department has started roping in private players to fund CCTV   at various intersections of the city.

 On Friday, the traffic police launched a surveillance system under which an infrared camera and a video recorder mounted on an interceptor and a Bolero, respectively, will help them in tracking traffic rule violations in real time. The devices, which are funded by a private company, and the vehicles were flagged off by GB Nagar SSP Love Kumar on Friday afternoon.
 
 The private company in question did not want to be named. Two more cameras, which have been linked to the traffic control room at the SSP’s office in Sector 14A, have also been installed at the Sector 57 intersection to track violations in real time.
 
 “The cameras are linked to a local control unit (LCU) installed at the Sector 57 police chowki. From the video recording, the LCU automatically processes the pictures of the numberplates and the vehicle in question. It can detect violations like red-light jumping and speeding for which a challan will be generated at the traffic control room. The overview pictures would enable the monitors at the control room to identify other violations like triple-riding and riding without helmet,” said an official from the company which has funded the project.
 
 Similarly, the traffic police have decided to rope in three more companies to fund such cameras at the T-Series intersection, 31/25 intersection and near the elevated road.
 
 SP (traffic) Anil Kumar Jha told TOI, “Talks are on to install similar cameras at these intersections. This will ensure that even if we do not have enough traffic personnel at a particular intersection, violators can be tracked and a challan be issued to them.” The Centre for Advanced Computing (C-DAC) has already surveyed four other busy intersections of the city — Rajnigandha, DM office intersection, Stadium crossing and 12/22 intersection — for providing infrared cameras for monitoring the traffic violations here.
 
 The two infrared cameras mounted on the interceptor and the Bolero can revolve 360 degrees while an operator will be present in the vehicles to monitor traffic from the monitor inside the vehicle. “The first one — an automatic numberplate reader (ANPR) — can capture pictures of the vehicle which indulges in red-light jumping or speeding (speed limit will be set at 40kmph). The ANPR will read the number on the plate automatically and flash the type of violation. These will be then viewed in the control room from where challans will be sent to the violator via post,” the SSP said.
 
 The concept will reduce the dependence on traffic personnel, Avinash Saini, assistant traffic inspector said.
 
 
