THANE: A six-year-old student of city-based   has been left scarred for life after her class teacher brutally assaulted her by yanking her hair off the head as punishment for   amounting to Rs. 4,000 on Monday.

 The class II student, who has been left with a fist sized bald spot, narrated the shocking incident about how her teacher   grabbed her hair, shook and screamed at her in front of the class for not paying her fees, only when her father coaxed her into telling him why she didn’t want to go to school the next day.
 
 Furious about the incident, her father   (29), immediately approached the school and informed them about the incident, demanding strict action against the teacher.
 
 "My daughter, Prachi, was crying at the mention of the idea of going to school. I was shocked when she told me what happened. I have a small photo studio in Indira Nagar area and my wife is a housewife. I immediately gathered whatever savings I had, paid the fees and reported the incident to the principal. I could see my daughter shaking with fear when the teacher, Rekha Nair, entered the principal’s cabin. My daughter still cannot get over the incident and has not gone to school till today," Gupta told TOI on Friday.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 "Even though the teacher has been suspended, there is no serious action taken against her, or the management. I have been pursuing the matter and will not rest till my daughter is given justice," he added. The school authorities, however, asserted that they have been taking the incident seriously and will follow it through.
 
 "We have always told our teachers not to hit the students as punishment, and about how corporal punishment is against the law. The teacher has been suspended for a week. We have asked her for her response to the incident in written. If this response is not acceptable, we will terminate her position at the school," said RN Tiwari, the secretary of the school.
 
 Gupta’s attempt to lodge a police complaint in the local police station, too, was in vain as the officials refused to register it stating that the issue was resolved internally with the school.
 
 "I was going to register an FIR at the   but two police officials there refused to file the complaint saying that the matter should be resolved internally between the school and me. I want to pursue this case and ensure that the teacher as well as the management gets their due for assaulting my six-year-old daughter," Gupta said.
 
 When contacted by the TOI, the Vartak Nagar police negated receiving any such complaint.
 
 Educational activists here assert that the management, which puts pressure on the teacher to collect these fees, should also be held responsible for the incident, in addition to the teacher.
 
 "Collecting fees is not the responsibility of the teacher. While what the teacher did in this case was brutal and unacceptable, the management and the principal should also be questioned and charged for pressuring the teacher to an extent where she had to use force to get the class II student to ask her parents to pay her fees. This is a criminal act and police action is a must," said Jayant Jain, a Mumbai based education activist.
 
