BHOPAL: Latest figures on the number of  , compiled by Directorate of Public Instructions (DPI), have yet again exposed the dismal condition of education across the state. According to the survey, about 574 government primary schools in MP are run by just one teacher. “When the only teacher of the school is on leave, students spend the day playing outside and go home after having their midday meals. In some schools, the students do self study as instructed by the teacher before going on leave,” one of the officials in DPI told TOI.

 The official referred to the figures as ‘alarming’ and said “it should be a wakeup call for higher authorities.” Official documents reveal that parents of children of single-teacher schools say the children have to stay at home when their only teacher goes for some official work or is on leave. “At times, our kids stay home when the teacher is on leave or has gone for some official work. The kids have no idea how much loss they are suffering,” a resident of Damoh Ramnath said.
 
 Upendra Kaushal, a teacher, said the situation in these schools is pathetic. “The situation is very bad in such schools. In some cases, even the students have to open the school gate themselves, and, if the teacher is not available for the day the school is looked after by the person who serves the midday meal. It is not only about students, but also about the single teacher who runs the school. He or she has to teach five subjects,” he said.
 
 Last year a report on single-teacher schools across the country tabled in Parliament revealed that there are 1,05,630 such elementary and secondary schools in the country. Shockingly,   emerged as the worst state with 17,874 such institutions. UP came second with 17,602 elementary and secondary schools till August 2016.
 
 Speaking to TOI, commissioner DPI Neerak Dubey said the issue will be addressed only after rationalization of surplus teachers. “The teachers who would not abide by the rationalization process or would shirk their duty against DPI orders would be sent to zero-teacher or one-teacher schools. They will be given their preference and if we don’t find it suitable, we will give them our options,” Dubey said.
 
