KOLKATA: The incident of two Class-IX boys killing a friend has rung alarm bells and made everyone sit up with horror, but   in the city say there are hundreds of cases of aggressive behaviour in kids being reporterd to them on a daily basis. What's more alarming is that most of these cases had the potential of having fatal consequences, but for chance interception and treatment.

 Doctors say there is a lot of pent-up anger withing today's schoolchildren, stemming from a large number of reasons. And these seem to burst forth at the slightest provocation, causing grievous injuries in many cases. However, most of this happens because of lack of parental supervision over a prolonged period of time. With both parents working, children in nuclear families are left to fend for themselves under supervision of hired caregivers for a long time, say doctors. This is when they either forge friendships that lead them astray or leave them emotionally hurt for want of an outlet to share their experiences and look for answers. This makes kids take decisions that get them into trouble, they felt. “Aggression has gripped both boys and girls in the most negative way,“ said psychiatrist  . “There is no reason to think that girls are less aggressive than boys. I have recently had a case where a father was seriously injured when his 10-year-old girl attacked him in his sleep with a stick till he lay bleeding, but was too dazed to stop her till the damage was done.“
 
 And if you thought ragging was an issue only in colleges, think again. There have been cases where Plus-II students have forced a junior to lick and polish their shoes, jabbed their compass on a classmate's palm for not letting them cheat in an exam and boys even kicking and punching a classmate till he fell unconscious.
 
 “During adolescence, there are hormonal changes which add up to severe mood swings and the pent-up anger acts as fuel,“ said psychiatrist  . “Close parental supervision is needed at this time and intervention is needed the moment parents notice that a child is quiet, recoiling from questions, or unwilling to interact.“ Doctors say at least 15% to 20% of children are suffering from  , which stems from loneliness, and which manifests itself in aggression.
 
 “Drinking starts as early as middle school these days with friends. In some cases, parents are in the know but they either cannot intervene for fear of retaliation or because they are too lenient. Society is too permissive these days, something that doesn't go with our belief system. This is reflected in kids' behaviour,“ Ray said.
 
