MUMBAI: The   government has appointed  , a former executive director of  , to head its  , an initiative that aims to develop 1,000 socially backward villages in the state. This is the first time that the government has appointed a senior executive from the corporate sector to spearhead a state initiative.
 
  Ramnath, who is currently executive director of the Maharashtra Metro that is executing the Nagpur and the Pune Metro projects, will also hold the additional charge of the CEO of the Village Social Foundation.
  
  State government officials claimed that they had appointed Ramnath as he had successfully raised funds worth of Rs 4,750 crore from multilateral agencies to fund the   in a short time.
  
  Speaking to ET, Ramnath confirmed his appointment, saying that he was excited to take on the added responsibility. “My financial background has played a role in the appointment as the government felt that I might be better suited for this role. The pressure and the expectations are high, but with the chief minister himself being so involved in the project, we are all raring to go,” said Ramnath.
  
  The Village Social Foundation is a brainchild of Maharashtra Chief Minister   who has roped in corporate heavyweights such as Ratan Tata, Mukesh Ambani, Deepak Parekh, Anand Mahindra, Deutsche’s Bank’s India CEO Ravneet Gill and Sanjay Mehta CEO of Hindustan Lever to be part of the project.
  
  ET had first reported about the state government’s initiative in August last year. Since the August meeting with these CEOs and industrialists, the Maharashtra government has formed a Section 8 not-for-profit company which enjoys all the tax exemptions and an institutional framework has been created. The 1,000 villages that are to be developed have been identified as well.
  
  The CM’s plan is to uplift villages which perform badly on the  , have a huge concentration of SC/STs, and suffer from illiteracy, acute poverty, low sanitation and low water levels. This is also the first PPP initiative of the government and the corporates in the social sector.
  
  “In April when we launch the first phase of the project, we would recruit 100-odd people who would go to these villages to interact with them and the collectors of various committees to bring in solutions that would help the villagers.
  
  The model will work because these people will be working in the villages and understanding their problems,” said Ramnath.
  
  The governing council will oversee the work of the Village Social Foundation and it would be headed by the CM and apart from the industrialists.
  
  Fadnavis’ core team led by his principal secretary Praveen Pardeshi will oversee the initiative. The state has said that for every rupee these companies would spend in these villages, the state would not just match it, but would also ensure that the government machinery puts its weight behind their activity. Government officials claimed that the enthusiasm among the corporates is so high that some of them have already sent in their CSR teams to the selected villages to identify the problems and have started working on the ground.
