GURUGRAM: Three armed men made off with a sedan, holding its drive hostage at gunpoint, in a daring robbery right in front of   hospital on Monday evening. The car thieves later dumped the driver,   (42), near a forest, around 12km away, and zoomed away in the grey Hyundai Verna.

 Police said Paswan had taken  , the mother of his employer  , a businessman, to Medanta hospital in the upscale Sector 39, where she had gone to meet some of her relatives.
 
 He was waiting for Anju outside the hospital, on the service lane that goes towards Jharsa, in the car and listening to radio. In the meantime, a man came and signalled him for a lighter from the driver’s side.
 
 As soon as Paswan rolled down the window glass, the man pointed a pistol at his head and snatched the ignition key to unlock the car doors. Within a moment, two more criminals appeared on the scene — one occupied the seat beside the driver while the other got onto the rear seat. Soon, the first man, who was holding the gun at Paswan’s head, slipped into the car. Paswan was then pulled back onto the back seat, and held hostage by the two men while the other thief drove the car towards Dwarka. Finally, the criminals pushed Paswan off the car in an isolated place and disappeared with the car.
 
 Paswan, who apparently did not recognise the place, somehow managed to reach his employer’s house and narrated the ordeal to Mohan, who took him to the Sadar police station and filed a complaint on Tuesday morning.
 
 “The men thrashed me and threatened me to stay under the seat. Later, they dumped me and took the car away. The robbers also took away the battery and SIM card of my mobile phone but gave the cell back,” said Paswan, a native of Bihar, who works as a private driver of Mohans and lives in Sikanderpur.
 
 An FIR has been filed under sections 365 (kidnapping), 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.
 
 SHO   said the police were trying to trace the criminals. “We are scanning footage from multiple cameras installed in and around the hospital to find clues,” he said. 
 
 
