MUMBAI:  , the   on tony   belonging to steel tycoon Sajjan Jindal, is finally being razed to the ground after the state government said it was not a heritage property.

 A residential tower is proposed to be built on the plot by Jindal's family-owned company, Windsor Residency. Some residents of the SoBo residential enclave had moved the Bombay high court in 2014, seeking a stay on the demolition because they claimed the property is a Grade II B heritage structure.
 
 Last May , the HC directed the state to decide on the heritage status of the property . “It is for the state government, which is the ultimate authority, to take a final call after considering the material placed and opine whether the building falls within the category of Grade II-A and B, or Grade III, or whether it is located in the heritage precinct,“ said the court, which had stayed its demolition till then. Morena House, the bungalow property on tony Carmichael Road belonging to steel tycoon Sajjan Jindal, is finally being razed to the ground after the state government said it is not a heritage property.
 
 Last week, the town planning department in Mantralaya wrote to the municipal commissioner, stating that Morena House is not a listed heritage structure. It said the property is neither Grade II B nor Grade III. The town planning director, Pune, visited the site and concluded that the building did not have art deco features.
 
 Before it was purchased by Jindal, the property housed the Belgium consulate.The Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee and the BMC have asserted that the bungalow property is not listed under the heritage rules and can be redeveloped.
 
 In 2002, the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee had proposed that the building be listed as heritage Grade II B. But it was never listed.
 
 Residents said heavy cranes arrived on Wednesday night and demolition of the one-storey structure commenced on Thursday morning. Jindal had purchased the property for a reported Rs125 crore in 2008 through Windsor Residency . Four years later, he sold it for around Rs 300 crore, but the deal fell through subsequently .
 
 The BMC has already given permission to Windsor to build a high-rise. Last year, a Windsor Residency spokesperson had told TOI the company had received preliminary permissions from BMC to build up to 8 floors. “But available FSI allows us to construct up to 69m (24 floors),“ the spokesperson had said.
 
 The HC observed there are 49 other buildings of similar nature where heritage grading had been modified and “no challenge was raised by residents so far as those buildings for reasons best known to the petitioners.“ “It is also brought to our notice that several buildings were demolished and multi-storeyed buil dings constructed in spite of M L Dahanukar Marg (Carmichael Road) being declared as heritage precinct. If the said statement was to be correct, we wonder why no challenge is made by petitioners in questioning other structures,“ the HC said. Residents said this will be the first such tower in almost 50 years on Carmichael Road. Mumbai's first skyscraper, the 24-storey Usha Kiran, was built here in the late 1960s. But after heritage regulations came into force, no high-rise construction was allowed on this stretch, which has a slew of old bungalows.
 
