NAGPUR: Sitabuldi’s iconic 149-year-old Rajaram Sitaram Dixit library suffered a major setback on May 1. The library’s president since 43 years, Padmakar Narhar Joshi, credited for resurrecting the heritage library and recreating love for books among students and individuals alike, passed away following a heart failure.

 On news of his demise, people opened their hearts out in remembrance of the man who was lovingly called ‘Paay Joshi’ for he used to walk daily from his home in Bajaj Nagar to the library after work.
 
 He served VNIT college as the deputy accounts officer before his retirement. A condolence meet has been organized in his memory on May 5 at the library at 6pm.
 
 Joshi’s longest association has perhaps been with secretary of the library, Mukund Naniwadekar, who has himself served at the library since past 37 years.
 
 “Together, we have saved the library from the clutches of financial difficulties. There was a time when there was no money to pay the staff’s salaries. He used to take out money from his provident fund to pay them. We then started taking several classes on the premises and renting the library’s ground to shops. Money started pouring in and we paid off all the debt,” said Naniwadekar, adding that Joshi knew saint literature such as Gyaneshwari and Dasbodh by heart.
 
 Seven to eight years ago, Shobha Sathe, Marathi lecturer at LAD college, had started visiting the library for research related to her PhD. “He used to treat me like a daughter,” she recalls, adding that Joshi would guide her by giving references for her work.
 
 “He was knowledgeable when it came to literature and sometimes even used to tell stories of the past. At the same time, he would be strict about library books being returned within time,” Sathe added.
 
 “When he was the president of the library, I was one of the executive members,” said Pramod Sovani, former vice-principal of CP and Berar College.
 
 Sowani remembers Joshi as a voracious reader with a terrific memory. “He was a really simple man and an honest social worker. But he didn’t get the recognition he deserved,” Sovani said, adding that Joshi has been associated with Yoga Abhyasi mandal for years, serving   selflessly.
 
 “He used to keep telling us, ‘love your books more than yourself if you want to work in a library.’ He had told us to provide book access to whoever needed them, especially the needy,” said Anil Chanakhekar, secretary of Dharampeth Rajaram Dixit Library.
 
