AHMEDABAD: The need for a   for   against   in deserving cases came to the fore again, when Kalpesh Patel, a resident of Mehsana, moved the   to recover Rs2.5 lakh that had been seized by police from him prior to November 8, 2016, and kept in court custody. 

 Despite repeated attempts by Patel to recover the money, Deesa court and police first forgot to deposit the notes seized from him in bank, and then failed to execute a sessions court order of March 8 to return the money, as by then, the window for exchanging old notes was closed to all except NRIs.
 
 Patel had been arrested in connection with a kidnapping case last year. Deesa police seized an amount of Rs 2.5 lakh and a bike during investigation. After Patel got bail, he requested the court to hand him over the money and the bike taken into custody by police.
 
 On March 8, a sessions court in Deesa ordered that Patel be returned his money and the bike. But there was an issue in executing the court order. Deesa court and police had forgotten to deposit Patel’s money in bank though Gujarat HC had ordered all lower courts, after demonetization, to deposit cash related to litigation that was lying with them, or police. 
 
 Since the district court passed the order to return the cash on March 8, it ordered for exchange of old notes with new ones according to an earlier Reserve Bank of India (RBI) notification which said that old notes could be exchanged till March 31. However, this arrangement was dropped by the Centre and the deadline was preponed to December 30, 2016.
 
 When the court staff and cops approached the RBI, they were told that the bill exchange scheme was available for NRIs only. The bank cannot exchange the cash without special nod from the finance department. Patel moved the court again for execution of its order, but to no avail.
 
 Now, Patel has moved the high court through advocate Kamlesh Kotai, who argued that Patel is at the receiving end without any fault of his, but due to the logjam in getting the currency notes exchanged. He requested the HC to intervene in the matter in the interests of justice.
 
 After hearing the case, Justice A J Desai asked the petitioner to make RBI, finance department and registrar of Banaskantha district court parties in the litigation, and issued notice to them on how Patel’s money could be paid to him. Further hearing in this case is on August 21.
 
 
