CHANDIGARH: The draw of lots on Wednesday highlighted the issue of the   in private schools, due to which there is great rush for admissions in the four convent schools of the city. 

 A number of parents whose children made it in one of the convent schools and those whose children could not, were unanimous in their opinion that the primary reason they seek admission in the four convent schools is a combination of quality education and reasonable price. This year, the four schools received 4,428 forms for 640 seats.
 
 "The administration is at fault here because they have failed to regulate the fee structures of private schools. They have become money-minting machines," said Preeti Gulati, a Panchkula resident, whose daughter got enrolled in one of the schools.
 
 Another parent, Bhavna Suppal, whose child couldn't make it, said, "If all schools provide quality education at a reasonable rate there won't be the need for thousands of parents to depend on these four schools."
 
 Another parent who joined the conversation said, "The school building has been made so why do they charge so much from parents at the time of admission and every year after that? The administration must check why schools are becoming money-minting machines."
 
 In the beginning of this year, the   administration put forth the proposal to adopt the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Bill, 2016. The UT education department forwarded the proposal to the education secretary on January 4. Last week, it was forwarded to the UT adviser for approval.
 
 Earlier, TOI reported that after a delay of more than three years, the UT — following Punjab and Haryana high court orders — is finally bringing in a fee regulatory mechanism, which unaided private schools may not take kindly to. It will adopt the recently passed, Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Bill, 2016, which will set a cap of 8% on fee hike and act strictly against commercialization in private schools. Schools will also have to justify the fee hike. The department wants to make the policy effective from the coming session.
 
