CHENNAI: In the summer of June 1951, a little over a decade-and-a-half after PC Joshi, the then general secretary of the undivided Communist Party of India, had taken on the baton of stirring youngsters with fiery Marxist tenets, five freedom fighters decided it was time that the void for such single-minded advocacy in Tamil Nadu was filled. They were Mohan Kumaramangalam, Srinivasa Rao, P Jeevanantham, K Baladhandayutham and VP Chinthan. 

 The   (NCBH), which they established then, went on to become not just the official publishing house of the CPI, but a savant of "inspiration and caliber for the intellectual class of the 1960's, 70's and 80's in Tamil Nadu," as journalist and political analyst R Mani puts it. 
 
 Over six decades have passed since its inception and over two, since the Soviet Union disintegrated, which immediately impacted the availability of Russian literature in the Tamil state. But the NCBH, which has a stall at the ongoing  , still calls out to loyalists with shelves full of works such as Thai (Mother), by Maxim Gorky and Kudumbam Thanichothu... (The Origin of The Family...), by Frederick Engels. 
 
 "Except that four decades ago, we sold these hard- bound, and at anywhere between 3 and 15, which is unimaginable today," says A Avudayappan, senior manager, who joined the publishing house at 16, and like many youngsters of his time, was enticed by a treasure trove of literature far greater than they had ever been exposed to. 
 
 Jose Antoin, today an assistant director in the  , remembers buying all 45 volumes of Lenin's collected works at highly discounted prices from NCBH.
 
 "It was a time when the Soviet Union was dedicated to spreading its ideology to third world countries and the NCBH had become great distributors," he says.
 
 Mani, himself from among this generation of intellectuals, owes his youth-time career as a field agent for several Russian magazines to his months of voraciously bingeing on Communist literature sent across the globe from the then Soviet Union to the NCBH at incredibly subsidised rates.
 
 "They brought in not only Marxist and Leninist literature but also classical Russian literature, including works by  , Leo Tolstoy and Maxim Gorky," he says.
 
 After the disintegration of the Soviet Union, books coming from Moscow-based Progress Publications may have stopped, but over the years, the demand for this literature has only been increasing, say many. "In fact, the NCBH is one of the pivotal publishing houses to look out for excellent Communist literature," says SP Agathiyalingam, journalist and writer. "It is also certainly in the forefront of bringing some of the most outstanding translated works from across the world."
 
 
