NAGPUR: Rora, a tiny village of 90 households in Harisal forest range in   (MTR), has turned out to be a role model by taking to   system. It is the first village in Melghat to take up the scheme.

 Until 2012, Rora had huge biotic pressure on tiger reserve with rampant cattle grazing. After setting up of village eco-development committee ( ), forest officials convinced locals to go for stall-fed cattle to boost their livelihood.
 
 “Initially, we bought 10 desi breed of Jersey cows on 50:50 cost sharing basis as per government rules. The Jersey cows gave at least 12 litre milk daily. The yield of local cows was not more than 3 litres,” says   chief Narayanrao Hekde (45).
 
 Hekde says those taking to stall-fed cattle earned around Rs6,000 per month. “This was enough for fulfilling monthly market needs of locals. Food grains from farms supplemented their income,” he said.
 
 “Buoyed by the earnings, more people came forward for buying cow breed. People got rid of old and unproductive cattle reducing biotic pressure on tiger reserve. Today there are 52 stall-fed cattle in the village. This also curbed the man-animal conflict,” says assistant conservator of forest (ACF) MY Toro.
 
 Toro says to recognize rights of people, a forest compartment was given to locals where there was no grazing and illicit felling of trees. This helped villagers reap fodder for cattle and villagers are allowed to cut grass in this compartment.
 
 Even livestock expert Ravi Patil, who initiated the process to promote stall-fed cattle in Rora, admits that grazing reduces availability of fodder by 75% due to trampling. It also destroys biodiversity and increases conflict.
 
 “Owing to rampant grazing, of the 86 species of grass earlier found in Melghat, today there are only 17 species left,” says Patil.
 
 Hekde says people are convinced as stall-feeding has many advantages like low stress, better yield, protection to animals from severe weather conditions and cow dung is used for running gobar gas and as manure.
 
 Even as villagers are doing well with the scheme, Kalu Dhikar felt Rora being a BPL village, forest department should help get hand loan of Rs15,000 as beneficiary’s share. “Still many villagers are out of the ambit as they cannot pay Rs15,000 subsidy to buy cow,” Dhikar said.
 
 Another beneficiary and vice-president of EDC Hiraji Dhikar says instead of cows, the scheme should include buffaloes as cow milk fetches lower rate. 
 
