BENGALURU: An abiding desire to enhance learning skills of government schoolchildren brought   and Educational Initiatives (EI) together. The two organizations signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) last month to collaborate on improving comprehension and absorption abilities of students by providing them with learning tools. The aim is to ensure education is based not on rote learning but a deep understanding of concepts.

 Co-founded by  , Rohini Nilekani and Shankar Maruwada, EkStep Foundation is a not-for-profit organization that aims at providing education to underprivileged children. The collaborative effort with EI will see EkStep providing technology for the platform that will enable children to freely access information. EI, an education technology company that focusses on improving learning abilities of schoolchildren with the help of interactive tools, will provide the necessary content.
 
 Chief executive officer for EI   said the or ganization's primary focus was on learning levels of students.
 
 “Our thrust is on nurturing a system wherein conceptual learning is given importance, as opposed to rote learning. We will focus on effective learning outcomes. We will be able to identify when a child is unable to understand an idea, understand where the problem lies, and subsequently provide him or her with better guidance,“ he pointed out.
 
 The programme will start in the coming academic year, and the learning kits will be available in regional languages such as Kannada, Telugu, Ta mil, Gujarati, etc.
 
 Vice-president of largescale education programmes at EI, Pranav Kothari said, “EI's products will help the kids improve their learning skills in the long run.“
 
 Pointing out that each child was different, Kothari added, “Some students might learn better with the help of videos, while a non-visual approach might work better for a few.Our tools are designed in a such way that they challenge the students without creating any fear or complacency among the students.“
 
 Co-founder and CEO of Ek Step Shankar Maruwada said the tie-up is a milestone. “EI will be a key user of the EkStep platform. The availability of digital avenues makes it possible to increase learning opportunities. This will help us leverage our best practices, facilities, etc, to increase access to learning solutions for the greater good. We are open to more solution providers using the free EkStep infrastructure to reach out to disadvantaged children.“
 
