SURAT: City traffic police now plan to check building plans of   located at places from where parking-related issues crop up regularly. This is another major step being taken by the police to solve the growing traffic issues facing the city.

 Police officers after carrying out an assessment of various locations in the city concluded that encroachment of parking areas of various buildings has led to parking of vehicles on the roads, which leaves limited space for traffic movement and creates traffic jams. Illegal constructions have been done in places earmarked for parking of vehicles at many residential and commercial properties.
 
 There isn’t enough space for even pedestrians to walk on roads. “After so many flyovers and bridges, space for non-motorized transportation has shrunk. Authorities are discouraging bicycle users and pedestrians because they have no plans for them while building roads and bridges. There is a major problem for those who don’t use vehicles,” said  , a senior citizen, who has to take help of passers-by to cross Athwalines main road. 
 
 Police will take help of   (SMC) officials while examining the plans of the buildings and checking their parking space as per the approved plan. “We are doing a detailed survey of areas with chronic parking problems. We will take SMC officers’ help in checking the plans of the buildings. If there are encroachments in their parking areas, we will take necessary action to remove them,,” city police commissioner   said. 
 
 “At many locations, illegal encroachments have come up in the parking areas of the buildings and this is leading to illegal parking of vehicles outside their premises. With our survey followed by action, we will ensure that the areas reserved for parking are clear for vehicles,” Sharma added.
 
 The challenge for police would be the buildings where the developers have got the constructions in their parking areas legalized after paying impact fees to the authorities concerned. At many places in the city, the parking slots had been sold for commercial use, and they were later legalized.
 
