KOLKATA: For  , ‘theatrewallahs’ should never be seen as ‘becharas’. The  , who has earned the monikers ‘Global Face of Hyderabadi Theatre’, ‘Sultan of Epics’ and ‘Master of Revival’, made sure that the audience at his first-ever   show in Kolkata agreed with him while they were appreciating his production.

  Baig’s ‘Quli: Dilon Ka Shahzaada’, which opened the recently-held second National Urdu Drama Festival in the city, was a favourite among the audience. The play, based on the tragic 17th century romance between Hyderabad’s poet prince Quli Qutub Shah and his Hindu devdasi beloved Bhagmati, had enough to keep viewers glued to their seats, including qawali artists singing ‘Piya Baaj Pyaala’ to a shadow dance presentation. 
 
 The idea was to evoke sentiments that the protagonists can represent any two people in love anywhere in the world today and Baig took care to give a contemporary treatment to a story set in a historical premise without digressing from the original facts. “Quli doesn’t need to walk around with a 15kg crown. He had a heart and this is what the play reflects. Bhagmati was not a concubine for him. He married her and made her the queen,” said the director-actor whose wife Noor essayed the role of Bhagmati.
 
 Baig, who founded the Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation in Hyderabad in 2005 — a tribute to his father, theatre legend late Qadir Ali Baig — had never wanted to join theatre. It was too “stark and intense” for him. Besides, there was the challenge of living up to the standard his father had set. After making 450 ad films and documentaries, Baig changed his mind when he saw the emotional response of the audience at his father’s 20th death anniversary. “I realised that I was investing my creative input to sell a service or product. Though I was not apologetic about it, I wondered why I can’t do something similar with what is part of my legacy,” he said.
 
 Today, he insists he is the highest-paid theatre actor in the country who doesn’t have a Bollywood background. “People pay Rs 1,000 to watch others because of their Bollywood innings. They pay the same amount to watch me purely as a theatre actor. I want to raise theatre to the level of a brand without making any compromise in content, aesthetics and decorum,” he said, insisting that he wants to break the myth that   are poor who will indulge in intellectual conversation only for their own creative satisfaction.
 
 Language is no barrier between him and the audience either. His heritage-theatre spectacle was lauded at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe 2016. “In some places, people haven’t understood the language but have still appreciated us because they could relate to the essence of my theatre,” he pointed out.
 
 What perhaps connects Baig’s theatre with the audience is his understanding of the importance of staging plays rooted in Indian culture for the youth, making history palatable. “My father’s play was done in a classical fashion. But I want to give a modern viewpoint to history. To the smartphone generation, I can’t present events as just history lessons. It’s important to present it in a way that doesn’t make them yawn.”
 
 
