KOLKATA: Passengers stand to gain from the new Catering Policy announced by the Ministry of Railways on Monday. Henceforth, Indian   Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will be in charge of catering on all trains.   will submit its business plan within 30 days and the Railway Board will approve it within a month thereafter following which the transition will take place. Till now, catering in several trains are handled by zonal railways and the buck gets passed every time there is any complaint regarding quality of food or poor service.

 “This is a very professional approach. In this zone, three very important trains will now be handled by IRCTC. These are the Sealdah Rajdhani, Howrah-New Jalpaiguri Shatabdi and the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi. This policy will lead to uniformity in service. Accountability will go up. Henceforth, all food will have to be prepared at the base kitchens. In the eastern zone, we shall set up 24 state-of-the-art base kitchens. In  , these will be at Sealdah, Asansol, New Jalpaiguri and Kharagpur. According to the policy, the base kitchens will have to be completed within a time frame. Agencies may be hired to run the base kitchens but IRCTC supervisors will have to be present at all shifts. Similarly, agencies can be engaged to serve food on trains but there will be supervisors on board,” said Debashis Chandra, group general manager (east), IRCTC.
 
 According to another senior officer, the new policy will allow more flexibility to IRCTC. The organisation can now decide the menu for premier trains like the Rajdhanis, Shatabdis and Durontos. Passengers will also have access to a-la-carte menus as per their choice and the regions that a particular train is connecting. For example, people traveling by the   or Chennai Mail may opt for idlis/dosas or utthapam. At the same time, standard food items will also be available. IRCTC has also been granted permission to serve Ready To Eat (RTE) meals on trains. The rates of a-la-carte, standard and RTE meals will be prominently displayed inside coaches and also circulated through mobile apps.
 
 “Licences will now be issued for milk booths at stations. These will also sell milk products. IRCTC has been instructed to introduce computerised billing for all items sold on trains and at stations. POS/swipe machines will also have to be introduced on a compulsory basis. There will also be third party audits to ensure quality of food and service. There are provisions for penalising contractors. Even IRCTC will be fined Rs 1 lakh per month in case there is delay in setting up base kitchens,” he said.
 
 
