The summer is going to be sheer delight, in more ways than one. Designers unveiled sheer white crop tops, dresses, gowns, duster jackets, capes and even bottoms in white and off-white tones. Designer Anita Dongre says, “White is a quintessential summer hue, reminiscent of purity and serenity. Combined with sheer, the textile that is light and fluid, it produces an ethereal effect that is absolutely breathtaking.” 

 
 
 White is a classic way to beat the summer heat. Plus, it’s versatile. With millennials looking to buy pieces that are stylish and have repeat value, white sheer fits right in. As designer Monica Shah says, “You can dress up or dress down your look with the same piece.” 
 The best bit about sheer fabric is that it allows you to play with layers. Pure white as well as hues like ivory, ecru and cream are a big hit in sheer fabrics this season. Designer Shruti Sancheti says that one can sex it up by going for minimum coverage under the sheer fabric. “But wearing white sheer demands a certain amount of fitness. If you’re in shape and have a toned body, you’ll rock the trend,” she adds.
 
 
 
 
 1. You use layers with different textures like cottons mixed with flouncy net 
 2. You wear an inner that fits you well. Go for the seamless variety in colours that complement the sheer outfit.
 3. Your peak-a-boo skin show always looks sophisticated. For that you can focus on just one body part that you’d like to accentuate.
 4. Go for a dash of colour with a scarf or statement earrings or even a belt.
 (Inputs by Tina Narang, designer & Prachiti Parakh, celebrity stylist)
 
 
 
 Play peek-a-boo with a dress that mixes sheer with fabrics like chiffon, georgette and silk
 
 
 
 Wear a sheer collared shirt with 3D embellishments. Pair with a bralet and athleisure-inspired pants
 
 
 
 Go for flowy Indian silhouettes in white cottons with semi-sheer details
 
 
 
 Wear see-through lowers (pants or skirts) with a solid shirt or top
 
 
 
 If you don’t have a strict dress code, throw on a sheer jacket over skirt and top or wear a shift dress. Keep it subtle
 
 
