Madurai: Chief justice of Madras high court Indira Banerjee will adorn the first court on Monday as the Madras high court Madurai bench enters its 14th year of functioning. The bench has jurisdiction over 13 districts and can take pride in the fact that several of its recent orders had received national attention.

 Some of its much-acclaimed orders include the stay on the rule banning cattle trade for slaughter and against declaration of results of the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for MBBS admissions. The vigour with which it nudged, admonished and even physically oversaw the uprooting of water-guzzling Prosopis Juliflora (karuvelam) from public and private land in the state has been much-appreciated. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, members of the legal fraternity felt that the bench provided easy access for litigants and had built a reputation for being an institution of learning for young advocates. It played a key role in addressing public issues which were being brought to its notice through public interest litigation. In fact, many felt that it competed with the 125-year-old Madras high court principal seat in Chennai in rendering justice and speedy disposal in cases despite the shortage of judges. The last one year had also been by and large free of boycott by lawyers which has been a regular feature prior to that over various issues. 
 
 “No doubt, the Madras high court Madurai bench is performing well among benches of the various high courts in the country. It disposes cases at a rate which is three times higher than that by the Delhi high court,” said K Samidurai, president of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association (MMBA).
 
 “Several senior counsel are available at the bench now which has effectively reduced the engagement of senior counsel from Chennai to represent cases here,” pointed out Women Lawyers Association (WLA) president and senior counsel N Krishnaveni. 
 
 The establishment of the bench had come as a boon for clients as they have been spared the trouble of travelling to Chennai. Additional public prosecutor (APP) C Mayil Vahana Rajendran said, “Now the clients come to the court straight away and can witness the hearing. This was not so before the high court bench was set up here. Clients from southern districts were forced to shell out money to stay in Chennai.” The bench has helped to solve public issues and played a key role in propping up the local economy, said former state Bar Council member S Muthukrishnan.
 
 
