 beat   by 12 runs in Match 44 of the Indian Premier League season 10 riding on Jaydev Unadkat’s five for 30, including a hat-trick. After RPS posted 148 for 8, SRH were restricted to 136 for nine with Stokes claiming three for 30. With this win RPS moved to second on the points table with 16 points. 

 We break down the match in five: 
 
 
 
 
 One of the most reliable opening pairs in the  , Ajinkya Rahane and Rahul Tripathi had a rare failure at the top with Tripathi running himself out for one in only the second over of the match. He played one from Ashish Nehra towards short fine and went for a run. However, he was sent back and was short of his crease with Bipul Sharma hitting the woodwork. Captain Steve Smith was dropped by Bipul at the same positon in the next over bowled by Siddarth Kaul. In five overs, Rising Pune Supergiant could only manage 24 for one and the first boundary of the match came in the sixth over, courtesy an Ajinkya Rahane six off Moises Henriques. But in the next over, Rahane departed for 22 falling prey to Bipul’s flight and dip. He top-edged one to long leg to leave RPS at 39 for 2 
 
 
 
 
 Smith and Ben Stokes then went about rebuilding the RPS innings and did that in a clam fashion and rotated the strike well to keep the scorecard ticking. Smith got his second reprieve of the day his flick towards short fine was grassed by Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Stoke then targeted Bipul taking him for two consecutive sixes. Rashid Khan put in a tidy spell and was rewarded with the wicket of Stokes for 39 off 25 deliveries. In the next over, Kaul dented RPS further with the wickets of Smith (34) – taken by Bipul at short third man – and Dan Christian – caught at midwicket. However, MS Dhoni stepped up and scored 31 off 21 to push RPS’ score to a competitive 148 for eight 
 
 
 
 
 In reply, Shikhar Dhawan handed SRH a good start taking two fours off Jaydev Unadkat’s first over. A six off Undkat’s next over again by Dhawan meant SRH reached 25 for no loss in five overs. Smith decided to bring in his best bowler, Stokes and RPS were rewarded immediately. Off his first delivery, Stokes castled Dhawan with an angled-in delivery that came back in further after pitching. A ball later, Kane Williamson departed gloving the good length delivery to wicketkeeper MS Dhoni. 
 
 
 
 
 At 33 for two, the onus once again fell on SRH skipper David Warner to come up with the goods and he did taking Washington Sundar for three fours in one over. Along with Yuvraj Singh, Warner steadied SRH innings and took his team to 76 for two in 11 overs. With Warner looking good and batting on 40 off 32, Smith brought back Stokes for his second spell and Stokes gave his captain the prized wicket of Warner. Warner went for a square cut over the infield off a short delivery but was holed in deep square Shardul Thakur. 
 
 
 
 
 With Warner gone, SRH stumbled and Imran Tahir added to the hosts’ woes with the wicket of Moises Henriques for four. But with Yuvraj in the middle SRH still had hopes. The left-hander hit Tahir for a four and then earned a maximum off Christian. But Unadkat came back to remove Yuvraj for 47 off 43 deliveries. Naman Ojha hit a six off Unadkat but caught in the same over off a slower delivery, slicing the delivery towards sweeper cover Stokes. With 13 required off six deliveries, Unadkat was given the responsibility to defend the total and he did that well taking a hat-trick removing Bipul, Rashid Khan and Bhuvneshwar Kumar and bowled a maiden in the 20th over. 
 
 
