NEW DELHI: The apprehension of Nepalese criminal and aspiring politician Shamshul Hoda has laid bare the ISI links to a plan to cause derailment of trains in India with Hoda being hosted at a safe house in Karachi a year ago.

 Wanted for an attempt to cause derailment in Bihar’s East Champaran district by blowing up rail tracks, Hoda’s travel and stay in Pakistan was arranged by a conduit, a known Pakistani fake Indian currency supplier Safi Shaikh.
 
 A National Investigating Agency official said ISI facilitated Hoda’s travel from Dubai to Pakistan in early 2016, with his visa application being cleared in a matter of minutes and Safi sponsoring the air tickets.
 
 NIA sources said Safi Shaikh, who also goes by the name of “Safi chacha (Safi uncle)”, has emerged as a key element in the ISI-backed conspiracy to cause high-casualty train accidents in India through sabotage. 
 
 Shaikh, who had earlier used Hoda to transport FICN into India in 2013-14 while the latter was based in Dubai, persuaded the Nepalese citizen to travel to Pakistan in 2015-16 for a direct interaction with ISI bosses over alleged plans to cause large-scale deaths in India by “engineering stampedes, derailments, riots or attacking government installations”. 
 
 The ISI bosses are said to have promised Hoda “huge sums of money” to execute incidents of sabotage in India, leading to mass killings. Later, a sum of Rs 8-9 lakh was transferred by Safi from Dubai to Hoda’s Himalayan Bank account in Birganj, Nepal. The NIA has the papers relating to the money transfer.
 
 Safi Chacha is already wanted in a 2014 NIA case relating to an FICN consignment of Rs 50 lakh sent to India via Dubai through Ekramul Ansari, a resident of East Champaran. Interestingly, that consignment of Rs 50 lakh had also gone to Ghorasahan in Bihar, where an attempt was made to trigger a blast on the railway tracks on October 1, 2016. NIA had then requested Interpol to issue a red corner notice against Dubai-based Safi Chacha and his Nepalese associate Abi Mohammad. However, due to insufficient details, a red corner notice could not be issued against Safi in 2014. Abi Mohammad was listed as a ‘wanted’ person.
 
 “The ISI’s role in the larger conspiracy to cause train derailments in India through acts of sabotage has been conclusively established, at least in the Ghorasahan case. As for the sabotage angle in Kanpur accident claimed by accused Motilal Paswan arrested in Bihar, we are yet to corroborate the same. Incidentally, our probe has found the mobile phone of one of the suspects switched off between November 17 and 21 (the Kanpur derailment took place on November 20), for which he has not been able to offer a convincing alibi,” said an NIA officer.
 
 NIA is also looking for another key suspect Gajendra Verma to help it join pieces of the Kanpur jigsaw puzzle
 
 Hoda, a Nepalese citizen, used to run a travel agency in Dubai, when he came in contact with Safi Shaikh. Hoda had unsuccessfully contested the Nepalese elections in 2013 and Brij Kishore, a local criminal, helped him raise money and resources for his campaign. Sources said Hoda spent nearly Rs 80 lakh on his election bid. He also lost money while negotiating a property deal, with the buyer duping him of Rs 1.5 crore.
 
 A NIA team will soon travel to Nepal to question Hoda.
 
