BHOPAL: The alleged encounter killing of eight suspected SIMI activists in   and 44 mysterious deaths linked to the   scam are among the cases that the   has highlighted in its latest report, criticizing the Indian government over alleged human rights violations. The report on ‘Human Rights Practices in India for 2016’ makes particular reference of custodial deaths in  .

 While the killing of suspected SIMI operatives after their escape from Bhopal central jail has been mentioned under the sub-section “arbitrary deprivation of life and other unlawful or politically motivated killings”, the Vyapam scam has been termed an example of “corruption and lack of transparency in government”. The US report says that in July 2015, the Supreme Court ordered CBI to take over a Madhya Pradesh state government investigation of fraud within the Professional Examination Board (Vyapam), a state government body that conducts school entrance and government service exams.
 
 “Arrests in the case since the investigation began in 2013 included more than 2,000 individuals. In August the CBI registered a complaint against 60 individuals and filed charges against a student candidate and an impersonator. The   granted bail to some of the accused. The CBI was also investigating the deaths of 48 individuals over the span of five years, including a journalist, who reported on the fraud,” the US State Department report reads.
 
 The CBI is investigating the death of 44 individuals allegedly linked to the scam over a span of five years. These included a journalist, who reported on the fraud, it said, remarking that ‘lack of accountability for misconduct at all levels of government persisted, contributing to widespread impunity’. “Investigations and prosecutions of individual cases took place, but lax enforcement, a shortage of trained police officers, and an overburdened and under resourced court system contributed to infrequent convictions,” the report said.
 
 There were 104 reported police “encounter deaths” registered countrywide by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), according to the home ministry’s data for 2015. The US state documnent says, “There were reports the government and its agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings, including extrajudicial killings of suspected criminals and insurgents.” It mentions how 20-year-old Sunil Yadav was found dead in Umri police station in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh on April 9, 2015, four days after his arrest on charges of theft.
 
 Yadav’s death had triggered violent protests. Local people placed Sunil’s body near Umri police station and demanded murder charges against the accused policemen. Over a dozen cops were injured in brickbatting and police had to fire in the air and lob tear gas shells. MP police suspended four police personnel and ordered a judicial inquiry.
 
 Under the sub-section ‘Societal Violence or Discrimination’ (based on religion and caste) the US report mentions an incident in Mandsaur district, where an alleged witness had taken a video of cow vigilantes beating up two women outside a railway station as police watch from a distance. The police reportedly arrested the women for beef possession, and a few days later nabbed two men accused of assaulting them.
 
