AGRA:   will determine victory and defeat in upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election. In 2012 elections, female voting percentage in entire state was recorded more than male. In   a surge of 23 percent in female votes took place which was again higher as compared to males. In upcoming election, the women voting percentage is likely to further increase. In past one decade women in Uttar Pradesh have evolved as voters. Now they have their own understanding on various poll issues and experience responsibility to vote independently.
 
  In past two elections, voting awareness campaign and enhanced level of understanding in society over gender equality has brought the change in poor scenario of female voters turning up to exercise their franchise. In 2007 assembly election, on nine constituencies of Agra District overall 35.07 voting percentage was recorded. Out of this lowest was 25.26 percent in present day Agra South and highest 48.34 percent in Fatehabad constituency.
  
  In 2012, high enthusiasm was seen in women voters. As compared to 2007, women voters increased by 23.41 percent to a record level of 58.41 percent. Voting percentage in Agra south went up to 55.28 percent. And Fatehabad remained ahead of other eight constituencies in the district with 67.19 percent. In entire state, 58.65 percent males voted whereas female voting percent was recorded 60.28 percent.
  
  According to political experts, the level of awareness among women voters has much increased in past two elections. Now they decide their own choice of candidate to vote. Women voting percentage is going to increase in upcoming election. Every party and candidate contesting election is well aware of significance of female voters. Due to this, from manifestos to door-to-door campaign an urge to secure female votes can be seen. 
  
  Resident of Trans Yamuna colony, Housewife Shalini Srivastava said “I am looking forward to vote on February 11. We have decided to gather at my friend’s place and go in group to vote. Political parties release manifesto and address our issue only to get votes but does not implement on them. Ahead of election, candidates are reaching at door step requesting to vote for them. We are also asking direct questions to them regarding inadequate water supply, poor maintenance of sanitation and hygiene, etc. Public image and track record of candidate also matters.”
  
  Fatehpur Sikri resident Rambeti Lodhi said “All village women will go to vote in truck, singing and celebrating the occasion to vote. It is our responsibility to vote wisely and elect good people so that policies and plans in favor of farmers take place. Development has taken place but only in cities, situation in villages has degraded in past few years. Crime is on increase. Education and medical facilities were better in Mayawati government. In Lok sabha we voter the right man to power in New Delhi and we are going to the same on February 11.” Out of around 13.8 crore valid voters in entire state, 6.33 crore are women.
