Bengaluru: Bengaluru and Mysuru are all set to host the 9th edition of Bengaluru International   ( ) from February 2. Chief minister   will inaugurate the week-long event in front of Vidhana Soudha.

 For the first time, the inaugural event of Biffes is being held on the steps of the Soudha. Last year, the 8th edition of the festival was held on the Soudha campus. The highlight of the inaugural ceremony will be a video mapping of the journey of world cinema, which is to be projected on the pillars of the Soudha building.
 
 “It’s going to be a unique experience. We have thought of a hi-tech video mapping to mark the inauguration of the film festival,” said N R Vishu Kumar, director, department of information and public relations (I&PR).
 
 Kumar was speaking to reporters at a press conference jointly addressed by M Lakshminarayana, Kannada and culture principal secretary, and   chairman S V  , ahead of Biffes.
 
 Lakshminarayana said over 240 films from 60 countries will be screened at the festival, competing in different categories, including Asian, Indian and Kannada cinema sections.
 
 As many as 40 Kannada films will be screened during the festival, and a separate category of popular entertainment Kannada cinema is being introduced. Five films, including Kotigobba 2, Jaggu Dada, Shivalinga, Mungaru Male 2 and Doddamane Huduga will be shown under the popular Kannada cinema category. “The decision to include these movies was taken on popular demand. The idea is to encourage Kannada films,” said Babu.
 
 The films will play at 11 screens of PVR Cinemas, Orion Mall, Rajajinagar, and four screens of Inox Cinemas, Mall of Mysore, in Mysuru.
 
 Acclaimed Bengali filmmaker   will be the guest of honour; also, well-known Egyptian film director Hala Khalil will take part in the festival. Popular Kannada actor Puneet Rajkumar is among other dignitaries invited, while senior actors Suhasini Maniratnam and Ramesh Aravind will host the event.
 
 The festival will be themed ‘Women Power’, and screen nearly 25 films directed by women. Its country focus will be on Luxembourg, Vietnam and Egypt. The Directors’ Retrospectives will be on Zoltan Fabri of Hungary, Haskell Wexler from the US and Buddhadeb Dasgupta. The valedictory ceremony will be held in front of Mysuru Palace on February 9. 
 
 For details visit www.biffes.in
 
 
