GURGAON: Plot owners, who had been allotted plots in   sectors in the past, have been given about two years to complete at least 50% of the   approved in the layouts. On failing to do so, one will have to cough up a hefty amount as penalty to get an extension of another year to fulfill this requirement.

 In a notice issued on Monday, Huda has asked total 1,060 plot holders in the areas falling under the jurisdiction of the estate officer-I to complete the minimum amount of construction by March 2019 on their land or brace for action.
 
 “As per the new policy, it has been made mandatory to complete construction on at least 50% of the permissible ground coverage, and receive occupation certificates by March 2019. Violators will be liable to pay extension fee as per the rates prescribed in the extension policy of Huda,” read the notice issued by Huda.
 
 Huda sub-divisional engineer (survey) HS Jakhad said, “The allottees have two years to complete the mandatory construction to avoid paying extension fee. Copies of the notice have also been marked to the administrative and account departments. If plot owners fail to get OCs before the above mentioned time, Huda will automatically start charging penalties.”
 
 Officials claimed that the step had been taken following the amendment made to the Huda policy in January, making it mandatory to complete half of the construction — be it residential, commercial or institutional — within the stipulated time.
 
  The changes in the rules were made after it was found that large chunk of plots lying vacant even years after the allotment, causing huge losses in terms of property taxes to Huda.
 
 Following the amendment, Huda has conducted a survey across all sectors to identify plots where construction carried out has been less than the 50% of the ground coverage. While Huda has already issued notice to 1,060 plot owners under the estate officer-I, another 4,000 allotees in the areas under the estate officer-II’s jurisdiction have been found to be violating the rules and may get similar notices soon.
 
 Elaborating on the new rules, a senior Huda official said those who had been allotted residential plots in various sectors had to start construction within two years of the allotment. 
 
 If they fail to complete half of the construction within the fixed deadline, the allottees will have to pay an extension fee to retain the ownership of the plots. However, if allottees fail to complete the construction even 15 years after the allotment, Huda will reclaim their plots.
 
 Earlier, Huda used to issue occupation certificates for plots with only 10% construction, which was later revised to make minimum 25% construction mandatory for issuing OCs. 
 
 Now, those who had taken provisional OCs on the basis of 10-25% of construction as per the previous rules can complete the mandatory 50% constriction in next two years and get OCs. “Allottees who have taken only provisional OCs but failed to complete construction within the specified date, will be liable to pay extension fee,” said a Huda official. 
 
