Recognising the dangers of senior citizens, particular ly those living alone, fall ing victim to a health condition and being unattended, the Union budget presented on Wednesday announced introduction of Aadhaar-based smart cards containing their health details.

 The move has especially brought cheer to  's elderly whose desire to live independently is high and the number of such senior citizens in the state is higher than the national average.
 
 “It gives us more confidence to be out alone or stay home alone,“ said 65-year-old Shanthakrishnan, who until now took his daily morning constitutional bogged by the fear that nobody would know of his heart ailments and diabetic condition if he fainted on a street.
 
 Doctors and officials running elderly care institutions, too, are happy. “Several senior citizens, especially those living alone, do not have the practice of keeping their health records,“ said D Rajasekaran, general secretary of Chennai-based Tamil Nadu Senior Citizen's Association.
 
 “Even if they do have a record, they keep a bunch of all prescriptions and papers of their past which is not helpful. This move will be great because there will be an abridged summary statement where the main problems will be highlighted so doctors can understand their condition,“ he added.
 
 Geriatric expert Dr V S Natara jan said the the smartcard should also contain a list of drugs used by the patient apart from emergency contacts. “It is important that senior citizens carry their ID cards with them,“ he said. “For instance, if heshe is diabetic, giving glucose will do. So, the card should contain their ailments, drugs they use, allergies, contacts and address.“
 
 A few, however, remain sceptical as an increasing number of facilities are linked to Aadhaar.“Many of us are worried that our personal details will be out by attaching details with Aadhaar card,“ said  , an octogenarian living by herself in Besant Nagar. “When the   has said it is not mandatory , we are not clear how this is going to work or help.“
 
