LUDHIANA: The horror story continued for minors in Ludhiana district. While two girls were allegedly raped, a boy was sodomised by his neighbours. 

 In the first incident, an 70-year-old man allegedly sexually assaulted a six-year-old girl living in neighbourhood by luring her with sweets.
 
 Mother of the   survivor told police that on Tuesday evening, her daughter was playing outside when the accused came to the spot and offered her toffee. Then he took the girl inside his house and assaulted her. 
 
 She alleged that the accused thrashed her up as well and threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed anything about the incident to anyone.
 
 The mother said when her daughter returned home, she kept mum out of fear. Later she suffered pain in the abdomen making the family think it was due to food poisoning.
 
 She said as her abdominal pain didn’t subside, she told them about the reason and divulged details about the incident. The family took her to the civil hospital for checkup after which they informed the police.
 
 Cops from city police station in Khanna started a probe into the matter.
 
 Station house officer (SHO), city police station, Khanna, Jagdish Raj said a case under Sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) is being registered on the statement of the girl’s mother. He added that the medical examination of the girl is yet to be conducted.
 
 He said the police would also get the medical examination of the 70-year-old accused done to ascertain whether he was capable of committing such an act. According to cops, the accused spent several years away before returning to Khanna. Police meanwhile said that the rape survivor is unable to talk much. Close acquaintance of accused however claimed that he was being falsely framed by the girl’s family.
 
 Neighbor rapes 15-yr-old
 
 A 15-year-old girl was raped by her neighbour when her parents had gone to work. The accused is married and has two children.
 
 In his compliant to police, the girl’s father claimed that they left home by around 8am on Wednesday and returned around 1:30pm for lunch. As soon as they reached home, they heard the screams of their daughter. They started to look for her and found her in a vacant area near the house where the accused was allegedly raping her.
 
 The father said his daughter used to remain at home to prepare lunch for them. On Wednesday, she had gone to washroom, located outside house, where the accused grabbed her and sexually violated her.
 
 He tried to flee but parents nabbed him and gave him a sound thrashing.
 
  police arrested the accused and booked him under Section 376 (rape) of IPC and under POCSO Act.
 
 14-year-old sodomised for 2 months
 
 In another shocking incident, a 14-year-old boy was sodomised by his two neighbours and two unidentified accomplices for almost two months. The accused dumped the boy near a resort on Chandigarh road only on May 15 after giving him some strong intoxicant. While the police registered a case only after the boy was found, his mother has alleged that the cops did not respond to her complaint, when she had approached them soon after her son had gone missing. 
 
 In her complaint to police, the mother of a teenager boy claimed that she is a single mother and has two sons aged 14 and 11 years. On March 18, both brothers were fighting over some petty issue on the terrace and were abusing each other. She alleged that the neighbours, who are brothers, scolded my sons for using abusive language.
 
 Later on March 29, around 7pm when her elder son was going to purchase milk from the locality market, the accused came to the spot in a white car and kidnapped her son and confined him at an unidentified place, she alleged.
 
 All four accused used to make him drink an intoxicant, before sexually violating him for almost two months.
 
 On May 15 the accused gave him a high dose of intoxicant and dumped him near a resort on Chandigarh road.
 
 The mother said, “After being dumped, my son kept asking for help. A commuter passing through the area took him to division number 7 police station. However, his condition was serious due to overdose of drugs and thus he was rushed to civil hospital where he underwent treatment for a week,” she added.
 
 The boy also suffered injuries in his private body parts.
 
 Blaming the police for inaction, she alleged, “I had approached police when my son had gone missing. However, they did not register an FIR. The police kept asking me to search him at my relatives’ house, but I could not find him anywhere.”
 
 The Meharban police, on Wednesday, registered a cases under Section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 377 (unnatural offences), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint).
 
 No arrest has been made in the case so far. 
 
 When asked about the delay, SHO Meharban Police Station, Inspector   said the woman used to querrel with the neighbours, who had given a complaint against her. Subsequently she was detained under preventive measures a few months ago. “After her release on bail, the woman has been complaining against different people of her neighbourhood. She had approached police but there was no evidences to lodge an FIR,” he said.
 
 The cops however are evasive to the queries as to what measures they took to locate her son, who remained missing for several weeks. 
 
