Motherhood. The term comes with an encyclopedia of meanings, synonyms and connotations and implications attached, most of which romanticises childbirth and perpetuate the baggage of unrealistic expectations that hang around their necks like an albatross.
Ain’t no hood like motherhood. A mother understands what a child does not say. Mom is one who sacrifices her body, sleep, social life, patience, memory, energy, sanity and trivial yet important things such as love for hot meals and the satisfaction of peeing alone for their children.   is unselfishness... notions like these sound good on paper but are incredibly hard to live up to, more so if you happen to be a working mom. A bunch of new-age moms tell Hyderabad Times how they learnt to strike a balance.
 
 
 
 Motherhood, like most things, has evolved too. Gone are the days where women were happy being homemakers and believed that taking on the mantle of motherhood is the greatest job in the world. Today women are independent in every sense of the term, and therefore need to multitask and find a balance between career and motherhood. I have been working for more than a decade now. So I chose to reduce my working hours to devote more time to my baby. Motherhood is more than just a full time job and is undoubtedly a lot of hard work. 
 And although, my husband Aadarsh and I read countless books on the subject, we realised that nothing can prepare you enough! Aadarsh has been more than willing to lend a hand with changing nappies, singing lullabies and also pretending to be at a mock formula one track or son’s little pram (laughs)! But I am glad we are in a day and age when the dynamics have changed. 
 —  , businesswoman and a mother of three-month-old baby boy named Nirvaan
 
  
 
 Motherhood is not just about giving birth to a child, that is just an event. It is what comes after chidbirth which is crucial and that is a lot of hard work. I had my second son five months ago and now, I am juggling between a job as a freelance trainer and a mom. When I had my first son, I returned back to work within four months. That time I was an actor could take my child to shoots, which is not possible now as a trainer. I try my best to take up jobs that are convinient to me. Despite that, I take my mom’s help; without her raising my child would not have been possible. She is definitely a big help when I go to work. But I still do feel guilty sometimes, asking for help, because at the end of the day, I think I should be taking care of my mom and mom-in-law not the otherway round. There is always a conflict in every mom’s mind. Those mental dialogues are always there where you are constantly questioning if you are doing the right thing or not. It’s a fine balance between independence and at the same time being responsible.
 —  , TV actress, mother of 11-year-old son Akshaj and five-month-old Krithik 
 
 
 
 Thanks to our society’s collective proclivity to idealise the idea of motherhood most young mothers are forced to life with a sense of lingering guilt. We are brainwashed into believing that you are not doing enough, that we need to do a better job of it than whatever it is that we are managing to do, not just as mothers but as women as well. There’s the pressure to appear perfect and to show that you are enjoying motherhood, always, no matter what. But thankfully times as changing. A lot more women now speak up about how being a mother isn’t as magical as it is made out to be. The truth is, motherhood is hard and that it’s okay to complain. It’s necessary to fail and then seek help. That’s just the fact of the matter. Are we better off because we go out and balance work and motherhood? I’m not sure. But one thing is for sure, today we have to be the “I don’t know how she does it” lady. Nothing less.
 —  , writer and director, mother of a one-and-half-year-old baby girl Aria
 
 
 
 There is no doubt that the idea of mother hood is changing slowly and mothers are also trying to reclaim their lives after child birth. It’s especially hard being a working mother. When it comes to the time my art requires, be it rehearsals or recitals, I don’t shy away from asking my parents and in laws for help whenever I need it. However, there is a fine line. I am very very conscious about amount of time I spend with my son Arjun, because the bond between a mother and a child still remains a very crucial bond, and that can’t be ever erased no matter how much we change socially and culturally. 
 —  , dancer, mother of five-year-old son, Arjun
 
