His film is titled Dhairyam (courage), and that’s exactly what spurred a small-town boy from Dammanigala, Shravanabelagola, to come to Bengaluru to realize his dream of being in the film world. This is the story of director  , who, ahead of the release of his film this week, tells us about his inspirational journey, his film and more…

 
 
 My father was a postman and wanted me to become a doctor. He educated me well, and till SSLC, I was a rank student; I scored 100% in Math and Science. As a village boy, when I moved to   for PUC, my eyes were suddenly opened up to the world. I was bitten by the filmi bug, and how! I spent all my time writing songs and poems, and watching movies in all languages — I used to watch 4-5 movies a week. Uppi sir ( ) was shooting for   when I was in college, and I was so desperate to be in films that I went to the set and asked for a job, but a light man scolded me and sent me away. Due to all this, I failed PUC. My parents were upset and I returned to my home town to do BSc and even started a business. But films were always on my mind. I came to Bengaluru and got four government job offers, all of which I turned down. For 15 years, I worked as an associate, writer and assistant director, before my friend, director  , gave me a break as a director with Male (2015). It is because of the dhairyam (courage) that I showed in my life that I have come this far. And that is the message in my film.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Dhairyam is a film that highlights the problems that middle-class people face. People who have money get things easily, but for the middle-class — who don’t have money, power or influence — it is hard. They have to find the courage within them to make it in life; it is only then that they can get ahead. This is the message in the film, but it is packaged with entertainment, comedy, sentiments and thrill. It is based on a real-life incident that took place in Bengaluru, which you will be able to identify when you watch the film.
 
 
 
 I have a very good team that is the backbone of Dhairyam. Everyone from the cameraman, stunt master, editor — all the technicians are my friends. I’ve worked with all of them before and they know about my talent. I have worked as an associate on three of Krishna Ajai Rao’s films, and he knew what I was made of. The team was very supportive, which made the shooting process a memorable experience. I’ve treated this as my first film.
 
 
  
 
