The annual award for excellence in writing on health and medical science has shortlisted six books, including two by Indian-American authors   and  . 

 The £ 30, 000   celebrates extraordinary works of fiction and non-fiction that deal with topics of health and medicine and inspire readers in some way or the other. The 2017 Wellcome Book Prize, announced yesterday, shortlisted six exemplary books by Paul Kalanithi,   awardee Siddhartha Mukherjee,  , Maylis de Kerangal,  , and   respectively. 
 
 “What these six challenging, diverse and enriching titles have in common is their insight into what it means to be human,” said  , celebrated Scottish crime writer as she revealed the shortlist at the London Book Fair this morning. McDermid is also the chair of the judges this year. “Together they form a mosaic that illuminates our relationship with health and medicine. It spans our origins, our deaths and much that lies between, from activism to acts of human kindness”, she said. 
 
 
  
 This year’s contenders exhibit a great variety of writing and deal with diverse subjects, raising questions on mortality and the human existence to the physical components of the human body. While the works of Sarah Moss and Maylis de Kerangal both illustrate the intricacies of modern healthcare, David France’s 
  tells the story of the 1980’s AIDS epidemic and the bravery of the activists. 
  
 Siddhartha Mukherjee’s 
  highlights the relevance of genetics within day-to-day life and interrogates on our ability to alter the human genome. Mukherjee has also intricately woven the recurring pattern of his family’s mental illness within the narrative. Kalanithi’s exhilarating posthumous memoir, 
 , chronicles his own life as a neurosurgeon and his journey in finding purpose to life. It is the first posthumously published title to be in contention for the prize. 
 
 Ed Young’s debut novel, 
 , is an exploration of the body’s microorganisms that not only protect us from diseases, but also hold the key to understanding all life on Earth. 
 
 The winner will be announced on April 24, 2017 at the Wellcome Collection.
 
