For the first time, the   (WR) will deploy   on the long-distance train, thus charting a new territory in what can be seen as a push for  

 Hitherto, WR had women ticket checking staff only in the ladies compartment of suburban trains or on platforms, but not on long-distance trains.
 
 To begin with, two women ticket checkers — Neeru Wadhava and Radha Iyer — will be checking commuters travelling in first class on  , which will roll out of Mumbai on March 8, that is International Women’s Day.
 
 The exercise will be carried out on trial basis for three months. If the model runs smoothly and successfully, it will be introduced in sleeper class and general compartments.
 
 For this, 20 women with maximum experience have already been selected to take up the role of ticket checkers in the long-distance train. They were counselled to do the job before starting their on-field training.
 
 In a bid to give them some on-ground experience, the women were divided into three batches and sent on-board the Mumbai-Surat Intercity Express to conduct ticket checks on the route. The training started in November and continued for four months.
 
 “When we started sending out the women in batches on dummy checks, we realised that there were a lot of problems like no resting room for female staff in Surat. We got them fixed,” a senior WR official said.
 
 As such, a restroom with proper amenities like toilets and beds was created for the women ticket examiners, alongside the existing facility meant for men.
 
 Divisional railway manager, WR, Mukul Jain said that their original idea was to have one train entirely run by women staff, right from the train escorts to the loco pilot.
 
 “But we don’t have any woman loco pilot. Hence, we decided to have lady ticket checkers on-board the express train as of now,” Jain added.
 
 But the   has decried the move, saying that it should be a onetime exercise to mark International Women’s Day.
 
 Divisional secretory of the sangh Ajay Singh said, “Women should be given lighter duty as they have the responsibility of their family. Besides, what if something goes wrong during the journey? Will a woman be able to handle five passengers together?”
 
 
