DHARAMSALA: Imagine if   and   were to sit down together for a quiet chat at the end of the second day's play in the fourth Test. What would they talk about?

 Had they both avoided eye contact with teammates in the dressing room? Would Renshaw, who dropped two crucial catches at slips at either end of the day's play, own up to a lapse in concentration, a paucity of slip-catching skill? It's likely he would, instead, lament the vagaries of fate, and curse his cricketing gods for their insouciance.
 
 Would Rahul, one of the beneficiaries of Renshaw's butter fingers, think about how he had masterfully ducked and weaved and dodged shorter deliveries from Cummins and Hazlewood?
 
 Would he think about how he had built, brick by painful brick, an edifice of 60 hard-fought runs, his fourth half-century in succession and fifth of the series? How he played that straight drive, which took even beautiful Dharamshala's breath away?
 
 It's likely Rahul would be thinking only about his moment of madness, his “horrible execution”, as he himself said at the end of the day's play, and playing in his mind, over by over, the hook shot he tried to play to a Pat Cummins bouncer.
 
 Maybe both Renshaw and Rahul would come around to admitting they were the spoilers for their respective teams on a day of riveting Test match cricket.
 
 Rahul's dismissal eventually led to Australia in general, and   (4-67) in particular, prising the game open, after Australia had tried manfully to end a fascinating standoff between bat and ball. The hosts, playing with a batsman less, took stumps at a distinctly uncomfortable 248/6, still trailing by 52 runs with only the tail to go.
 
 Of course, India could have been virtually out of the game without Renshaw's interventions, which included the spilling of a regulation edge from Wriddhiman Saha at the end of the day. Wonder how that would make Renshaw feel?
 
 Cummins and Hazlewood were the protagonists of the most inspired, back-breaking and enjoyable spells of fast bowling seen on these shores in recent times.
 
 Caution was the watchword and runs came in a trickle, at only 2.72 at the end of the day's play. Stand-in captain   momentarily lost his poise and started attacking the faster bowlers. Rahul's tendency to fritter away starts seemed to be catching, since on this day both Cheteshwar Pujara (57 off 151 balls) and Rahane (46) failed to carry on.
 
 The game needed a momentum shift, like the one witnessed after Kuldeep Yadav's introduction on the first day, and again spin provided the answer. After tea, the pitch, which continued to try hard to please everybody, laid out its best bouncy face for a fidgety Nathan Lyon. Lyon alternated loopy, spinning deliveries and the quick, straight stuff, went from over the wicket to around, and eventually, aided by the bounce and the cracks, took the backbone out of the Indian middle order. It's likely only one among Rahul and Renshaw will find the outcome easy to swallow.
 
