AHEDABAD: The Safar-Air monitoring station for Ahmedabad’s biggest dumpsite, Pirana, is ironically situated in one of the greenest lungs of the city –   forestry plantation. The area surrounding the station is a virtual green island consisting of 30,000-odd trees. Predictably, the air quality of Pirana reported by the station is far from the reality.

 Since the Safar programme was launched by the AMC, till date, the android app has reported only once, on Friday morning, that the quality of air at Pirana was poor. Most of the time, the app paints a rosy picture of Pirana. For example, on Saturday, at 7am, the air quality index read 90 – a good quality. The advisory for Pirana stated the air quality is satisfactory and air pollution poses no risk.
 
 Residents of the area claim that if AMC was so concerned about the quality of air, it should have installed the station near the Pirana dump site which has 64-lakh metric tonnes of garbage. “We know this smoke coming out of Pirana dump site is more dangerous than any vehicle or any other pollution,” says Iqbal Saiyed, a resident of Pirana area. “Lakhs of citizens living beyond Chandola, and towards Narol, experience burning sensations in their eyes, and uneasiness while breathing,” he said.
 
 The Safar-Air programme was launched by the ministry of earth sciences, AMC and the   in Ahmedabad on Friday.
 
 Apart from Pirana, two stations were set up at Space Application Centres in Bopal and  . Officials in AMC pointed out that almost all stations have been set up are in greener and cleaner areas.
 
 At 4pm, a thick smoke from the Pirana mound blankets some three square kilometres. Your eyes burn and visibility is not more than 20 feet but if one looks at the Safar app, the air quality index is 103 which was only three points higher than the normal range. The installation of the station, and the data, would help the AMC in the ongoing case in the high court, said disgruntled citizens.
 
 Radheshyam Baranda, who works in the area near the Gyaspur plantation, says, “We are not aware where this machine is installed. If it is installed in this forest, it would not give a perfect reading.” 
 
 Bhavin Solanki, the health officer of AMC and the Safar project coordinator, was not available for his comments.
 
 
