BENGALURU: In February, the Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd (REC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the central government, signed a whopping Rs 39,000 crore loan deal with KPCL and Bescom for the rural electrification project with the Centre “optimistic“ of the project taking off in a big way in the state.

 The loan term, spread over five years, will see KPCL get Rs 27,121 crore and the Bescom Rs 12,000 crore for rural electrification projects. However, the energy department annual report of 2015-16 shows that the ground situation is far from optimistic.
 
 In 2015, Prime Minister   launched the Deena Dayal Upadhyaya Grama Jyothi Yojana (DDUGJY) hoping to electrify the hinterlands of the nation. But in Karnataka, the tenders floated for the scheme has no takers. The report states that with Bescom alone, tenders for DDUGJY were floated for seven districts.
 
 But there response was dismal, with Kolar and Chikkaballapura receiving only two bids and a single bidder for the entire of Davangere, Chitradurga, Tumakuru and   taluk of   district. Besides, for Ramanagara and Bengaluru Rural districts, no bids were recieved.
 
 The net result is that Bescom decided to scrap the tenders and recall them for all districts. In the other four Escoms, the DDUGJY ap pears to have not even begun materialising.
 
 Energy minister   said the scheme has run into rough weather with little response from companies. “In Mandya, the rural electrification project received only one bid. We just cannot award the project to that single bidder and start the project.We're trying to resolve the issue,“ Shivakumar said.
 
 He said the primary cause for the problem is land acquisition. “Farmers in rural areas are just not ready to part with land for the right of way to place the transmission lines. This forced many companies to reconsider bidding for the project,“ he said.
 
 According to sources in the department, the heavy rates quoted by farmers for giving up land for the project were an issue.
 
 In some cases, farmers are seeking 25%-30% over and above the rates offered.As of January 31, the rural houshold electrification data provided by the Centre suggests as many as 32 villages and 16.88 lakh households in Karnataka are still living without electricity.
 
