CHENNAI: Every one of the   distributed by the   finds an owner, but not necessarily a user. Many of the children who received glasses under the   do not wear them as the   and   or because the specs make them the targets of class bullies.

 This was revealed in a qualitative survey undertaken by a team from city-based Elite School of Optometry , run by Sankara Nethralaya (Medical Research Foundation) and Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani. Every year, the state distributes around 8,000 free spectacles to government school students. A 2012 study to check compliance among these children found that only around 30% of them continued to wear them. “We wanted to find out why,“ said Anuradha Narayanan, who, along with a team, held discussions with six groups comprising children between 13 and 17 years from government schools in and around Chennai who were prescribed glasses, and their parents.Their findings were published recently in Optometry and Vision Science Journal.
 
 Researchers found that one of the main reasons why children didn't wear them was because of physical reasons. “During the routine vision screening, children are tested for refractive errors, but no measurement is taken of their faces to determine the size of the spectacles,“ said Anuradha. “There were also complaints of delays in replacing spectacles after it was broken,“ noted the study.
 
 The spectacles are procured with the funds released by the Centre to the state Directorate of Medical and Ru ral Health Services, which in turn channelises the funds to the district health society tasked with floating tender for the same. In Chennai this is carried out by the corporation.
 
 City health officer Senthil Nathan said the civic body had tied up with 10 NGOs to undertake vision screening in different zones once in two years. “We place orders for spectacles based on three categories ­ power, gender and age,“ he said, admitting there may be `some centimeter difference' in the circumference of frames.
 
 R Krishna Kumar, a co-author in the study , said ill-fitting glasses could result in prismal effect. “This will result in children straining their eyes more,“ he said.
 
 Adolescents, researchers spoke to, said those with spectacles were often not selected for sports. “Even if we want to participate, we aren't allowed. So we pretend we don't need spectacles,“ said a 15year-old girl, quoted in the study . The study also revealed lack of parental involvement as information about the child's vision status is given only to school authorities.
 
 According to national surveys, the prevalence of refractive error among government school children is pegged at 7.9%, and 17% in private schools.
 
