I met Baba in 1979 in one of the meetings at the Lions Club. I was 22 back then and he must have been 60. He was so impressed with one of my portraits hung in the club that one day he came looking for me. I vividly remember; he was wearing a suit and was looking as elegant as ever. It was hard not to acknowledge Baba’s six-feet-something personality. Let me be honest; I was immediately captivated by his charm.
 
 
 
 He introduced himself as a doctor and artist. That very day he took me to his home and showed me his paintings. I was surprised as each and every painting of his was a work of art. Water colour is a difficult medium, and Baba had mastered the art. His paintings never failed to amaze me. One of my favourites was his cloud painting. I was so impressed by one of his canvas of clouds that I started referring to him as  , the English Romantic painter who was famous for his ‘Study of Clouds’.
 As days passed, it became hard to choose who is more interesting; Baba — the artist or his artworks. Though I used to call him Baba, he was more of a friend to me despite our age difference. His humorous nature was another characteristic that stood out for me. We often used to go on drives to scenic places and do landscape painting. Together we even designed the logo and monogram of the   of which he was the founder. A brilliant artist, a compassionate doctor, a treasure trove of knowledge — that was Baba. We didn’t have Google back then, but I had him. If I needed any information, all I had to do was pop the question to him and I don’t remember him not having an answer. 
  
 
 
 He too was very fond of me and my wife Daya. Even when on tours abroad, he used to keep us in his thoughts and write letters describing his journey. Not just that, he would walk all the way from his home to my studio to share every detail of his journey the day he would reach Hyderabad. In today’s world where technology has got us so close yet we have so much distance between us, Baba cared for those who loved him and tried to return the gesture threefold. 
 I remember, one Diwali he gifted an old silver coin to my wife and said, “Keep it in your Laxmi poojan, it will bring you prosperity.” That worked! I never faced financial hardships after that. We keep still the coin in our pooja.
  
 
 
 Apart from brilliant brush strokes, his hands had a healing touch and he had a heart of gold. He once offered me his own lumbar belt when I was down with severe backache.
 During his last years when he was fighting cancer, he became very empathetic of the suffering a cancer patient. Baba donated all the money from an exhibition to  , which is now Shanti  .
 When he passed away, I was shattered. As per his last wish, his funeral rites were performed in Hindu tradition. While coming back after performing his last rites with moist eyes, I remember seeing him in my mind’s eye giving me a serene smile. That moment I knew he didn’t leave and is here with us. People say, ‘Don’t be attached to your past’. But I ask them, when you stand on the 60th step of your life, how can you forget or be detached with the previous 59? 
 
