PUNE: For the second consecutive year, above normal winter temperatures over several parts of the country, including Mahabaleshwar, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir, have adversely affected the strawberry yield.

 Agriculture ministry estimates reveal that the production of the fruit in India has dropped by 40% from 8,000 metric tonnes in 2014-15 to around 5,000 metric tonnes in both 201516 and 2016-17.
 
 Sources from the All India Strawberry Growers' Association said the reduced production was due to above normal winter temperature and issues concerning the mother plant imported from California to grow the fruit.
 
 The ministry's data indicated that in a normal season, strawberries are grown on close to 2,000 acres of land in Mahabaleshwar, which is Maharashtra's major strawberry growing belt. The usual per-acre production stands at 7 to 10 tonnes. It means close to 20,000 tonnes of strawberries are grown in and around Mahabaleshwar during a normal season.
 
 “The yield has dipped by 40% over the last two years, primarily due to the warm winters in 2015 and 2016 as well as the non-availability of mother plants. Mahabaleshwar imports close to 7.5 lakh mother plants each year to grow strawberries. In contrast, only four lakh such mother plants were imported in 2016,“ said Nitin Bhilare, president of the All India Strawberry Growers' Association. Several farmers have refrained from planting strawberries as the warm winters are affecting the quality and causing a low yield, Bhilare said. Mahabaleshwar strawberry is a seasonal fruit that grows in October-November and April-May . Shashikant Umbarkar, a grower with farms spread over 1,000 acres in Mahabaleshwar, Satara and Wai, said earlier close to 3,000 tonnes of strawberries would be processed to make food products such as preserves and jams.
 
 “This season, the quantity of strawberries used for processing may drop to 1,500 to 2,000 tonnes in Mahabaleshwar due to the back-to-back warm winters. Strawberries start oozing water when exposed to excess heat because they do not have an outer coating like other fruits. The winter fruit grows best when the maximum and minimum temperatures are around 25°C and 10°C,“ Umbarkar said.
 
 Temperatures in Mahabaleshwar have been fluctuating for a few months. In November, the hill station recorded its highest temperature (29°C) for the month in eight years.
 
 Amol Bhilare, another strawberry grower from Mahabaleshwar, said farmers have stopped procuring the Sweet Charlie and Winter Dawn strawberry varieties from California since they are prone to pests and diseases.“The yield of the two varieties is quite high as compared to the other varieties,   and Nabila, that are being im ported now. This, in addition to the fluctuating temperature, is resulting in the reduced strawberry yield,“ he said.
 
 Across the spectrum, farmers' expectations have been dashed. With a strawberry farm spread over 2.5 acres, Sanjay Pawar was expecting a yield of around 20 tonnes this season but had to settle for just nine tonnes.
 
 The dip in yield has been felt across other strawberrygrowing belts in the country as well. Saharwa village in Haryana's Hisar district, a major strawberry hub in  , also saw a dip in its yield, said Sunil Dhanda, senior coordinator of the   at Sadalpur. “The low quality and consequently falling prices have dissuaded farmers from growing strawberries,“ Dhanda said.
 
