Trichy: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announcing board examinations for Plus 1 has been generally welcomed by educationists. While this was one among the long-awaited demands to improve quality of education in the state-run schools, questions have also been raised on the examination pattern that the state follows. 

 Welcoming the move, Jegan Matha Matriculation School correspondent R Sahayaraj said it will help the students strengthen their basics. He said Plus 1 served as the foundation for undergraduation courses. 
 
 Citing a news report, Sahayaraj said it was shocking to find that many students who got admissions to top engineering colleges under Anna University failed in their first semester mathematics paper. It was found that the students came from the schools which skipped Plus 1 syllabus and taught that of Plus 2 to students for two years. This situation would not emerge in future as schools will now give importance to Plus 1 syllabus, he said. 
 
 However, long-term solutions can only be achieved by introducing a common syllabus throughout the country, added Sahayaraj. Coordinator for the forum for education development-Tamil Nadu S Moorthy said the move would benefit students of government schools and improve their prospects of getting admission into professional courses. 
 
 Citing an RTI report, Moorthy said that only 29 students from government schools could make it to the government medical colleges across the state. But 70 per cent of the students writing board examination were from government schools. This has been the case as many of the private schools skipped Plus 1 syllabus and secured good marks by studying Plus 2 for two years unlike the government schools students, he said. Educationist Era Natarasan while welcoming the move put forward some vital questions to the state government. 
 
 “What will be the fate of the students who fail in the Plus 1 board examination,” he asked. According to him, if the government was planning to use the same question pattern and examination methodology, then there were chances that it might fail miserably. 
 
 “It is high time that we bring in examination reforms as the present system only encourages student to mug up and vomit in the examinations,” said Natarasan who is also the Sahitya Akademi award winner.
 
 
