NEW DELHI: Bhutan’s special relationship with India and the Himalayan kingdom’s resolute decision to keep out P-5 countries from establishing diplomatic ties assume special significance as the backdrop of the standoff between its two Asian neighbours in Sikkim.
 
    has rebuffed China's eagerness to establish formal diplomatic ties with Thimpu. However, is part of Bhutan’s long held and consistent policy. The monarchy is not keen to establish diplomatic relations with not only China, but any of four other permanent members of the UN Security Council (UNSC) -- US, Russia, France and UK -- commonly referred to as P-5.
  
  While Thimpu engages with all P-5 states, it has been maintaining a consistent position -- despite pressure -- of not establishing diplomatic ties with any of the five global powers. Bhutan has always held that allowing any of the P-5 states to set up an embassy in Thimpu will open door for other four powers to explore their presence in the Himalayan state. While in the future, P-5 presence in the remote country cannot be ruled out, currently Thimpu has no such intentions, points out a Bhutan watcher.
  
  Bhutan is extremely conscious of its ethno-cultural identity and wants a gradual process in dealing with the larger international community. While Bhutan has diplomatic ties with 53 countries and the list includes those having constitutional and functional monarchies, the current government in Thimpu has not made any effort to expand that list. Bhutan’s biggest neighbour to the South -- India has safeguarded the Bhutanese approach and the revised friendship treaty of 2007 is testimony to that.
  
  Recently, when Bhutan decided to go slow with BBIN Motor Vehicles Agreement (MVA), Delhi was willing to play ball and adjust with Thimpu’s pace. It was around 2007-08 that democracy was introduced in Bhutan by the last King and it has been a gradual process of opening up that was consolidated through two successful elections, a remarkable feat for a monarchy.
  
  Bhutan has particularly sensitive relations with its northern neighbour, China. The border between Bhutan and China has been closed since the invasion of   in 1959, causing an influx of refugees. The border also remains undelineated. Tensions have eased up considerably, especially after the signing of a 1998 agreement on border peace and tranquillity, the first bilateral agreement between China and Bhutan.
  
  However, several rounds of negotiations over Sino-Bhutan boundary dispute have not yielded results and Beijing has been extremely pushy in recent years to establish diplomatic ties with Thimpu. But Bhutan remains circumspect that a formal presence of China in its territory could invite further political and economic pressure the country of one million people may find difficult to handle.
  
  In comparison, Bhutan has been traditionally close with India. British India signed a first ever Friendship treaty in 1865 with Bhutan. When Bhutan became a monarchy, British India was the first country to recognize it and renewed the treaty in 1910. Bhutan was the first country to recognize Indian independence and renewed the age-old treaty with the new Indian government in 1949, including a clause that India would assist Bhutan in foreign relations.
  
  On February 8, 2007, the Indo-Bhutan Friendship Treaty was substantially revised in keeping with contemporary times. In the treaty of 1949, Article 2 read as "The government of India undertakes to exercise no interference in the internal administration of Bhutan. On its part, the government of Bhutan agrees to be guided by the advice of the government of India in regard to its external relations.”
  
  In the revised 2007 treaty, the clause reads "In keeping with the abiding ties of close friendship and cooperation between Bhutan and India, the government of the Kingdom of Bhutan and the government of the Republic of India shall cooperate closely with each other on issues relating to their national interests. Neither government shall allow the use of its territory for activities harmful to the national security and interest of the other."
  
  The revised treaty also includes in it the preamble "Reaffirming their respect for each other's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity."
  
