Nagpur: ‘Circus’ is a place where people love to visit for amusement, knowing little what goes on behind the scene. Stories of many artistes working in circuses are replete with the efforts they put in to entertain the audience, leaving behind the travails of life.

 Such a heart-touching story was the theme of ‘Circus’, a play staged at Scientific Society Hall on Thursday, which had all the elements of real life struggle. The drama narrated the experiences of a   artiste, on and off the stage, that kept the audience on the edge of seats. The show was organized to mark the first death anniversary of Dilip Bhat, a drama lover, by his daughter Deepalaxmi, who also doubled up as director.
 
 “Through this drama, I wanted to bring before the people the life of circus artistes who struggle and have frustrations, but there is hardly any one to recognize their art and creativity,” said Deepalaxmi.
 
 The drama is about a girl whose mother was a great and graceful circus artiste. Everyone loves her work. But with time, she grows older, loses her spark and fails to attract people. As it happens in most cases of fading stars, she goes into depression and dies.
 
 Her little daughter, played by Mrunmayi Deshpande, decides to join the circus, just like her mother, oblivious to the fact that life is not as rosy as the people look at the showbiz. She too starts working in a circus, slog it out, but without success. A time comes when owners decide to part with her.
 
 Taking failures in her stride and fighting with the world outside, she decides to make a fresh beginning and gets trained by jokers. And she finds the rhythm, of life, and circus. She makes the world around her laugh with her wit and antics. The drama had a lot of dances and stunts that drew claps and cheers from the audience. More than 40 city actors were part of the show. Aditi Gondhalekar and Nitin Kamble were the choreographers.
 
 Chetan Deshmukh, who watched the drama, said, “The role played by the woman joker was captivating. I got emotional many times as the drama progressed.” 
 
 Summing up, Deepalaxmi said, “Even if an artiste is frustrated, and depressed, s/he cannot live without circus. Just like a circus cannot live without an artiste. This is the moral of the story.”
 
 
