SHIMLA:   did not violate any laws of   in   on three occasions in Shimla, the deputy commissioner (DC) of the hill state’s capital informed the CBI in a letter dated October 18, 2016.

 The contents of the letter — written by DC Rohan Chand to the Shimla branch head of CBI in connection with an investigation into the controversial land deals — were revealed in an RTI reply by the public information officer of Himachal Pradesh’s directorate of land records on February 23, to a plea filed by RTI activist Ashish Bhattacharya. 
 
 The issue of land purchased by Priyanka courted controversy after Bhattacharya questioned permission granted to her under Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Land and Tenancy Act, 1972. A case is already pending before Himachal Pradesh high court.
 
 The DC’s letter is a reply to a separate investigation into the land deals — carried out in 2007, 2011, and 2013 — after Bhattacharya had filed a complaint with the CBI. The DC has informed the CBI in the letter that the land deals were well within the prescribed limit.
 
 The RTI information contains a certified copy of the DC’s letter to the branch head of CBI Shimla. In the letter, the DC said Vadra was allowed to purchase a total of “0-45-52 hectares” in the three land deals and that this was within the allowed limits. He said Priyanka first purchased “0-31-84 hectares” in 2007 for residential and horticulture purpose.
 
 He said she then purchased “0-09-22 hectares” for horticulture purpose in 2011, and another “0-04-46 hectares” for horticulture purpose in 2013.
 
 The DC informed the CBI that no violation of the provisions of HP Land and Tenancy Act 1972 was made in the three cases. He said Section 118 (2)(h) of Act stipulated that the “non-agriculturist shall put the land to use within a period of two years or a further such period not exceeding one year as may be allowed by the Government of Himachal Pradesh”.
 
 He said that applicant had taken steps to put the land to use for the purpose for which the permission was granted in her favour within the stipulated period, and no notice was required to be issued to her, though it had been demanded in the complaint by Bhattacharya.
 
 The case and the complaint
 
 In his complaint to CBI headquarters in New Delhi, RTI activist Ashish Bhattacharya had alleged irregularities by the officials of Himachal Pradesh government in allowing Priyanka to carry out three land deals in Shimla in 2007, 2011, and 2013. He had alleged that the land deals were a violation of HP Land and Tenancy Act 1972. At that time, the CBI headquarters had transferred the complaint to its Shimla branch for action.
 
 The head of CBI’s Shimla branch had then forwarded the complaint to ADGP (vigilance) and the state’s directorate of land records, which comes under the department of revenue, for further action. After Bhattacharya filed an RTI application, the PIO of the directorate provided him the information and file notings, including the DC’s letter.
 
 
