Bhopal: State wildlife’s special task force (STF) has arrested two members of a nomadic tribe, who have reportedly killed more than 100 jackals in a small span. They have used meat for own consumption besides selling it to those with appetite that goes beyond chicken on non-vegetarian menus, sources said. Many believe that organs of a jackal have rich medicinal values.

 The arrested have been identified as Badhri Nath, 47 and Man Singh Nath, 49 both residents of Nerukhedi village in Rajgarh district’s Narsinghgarh area.
 
 Wildlife STF team, led by Ritesh Sirothia, has confiscated 10 leg-hold traps, a jackal head, its meat and hair from their possession. Officials have also confiscated two cobras and a sand boa snake from them. STF sleuths posed as prospective buyers to nab the accused.
 
 Following its proximity to human habitats, jackals have become a cheap source for people craving for game meat (animals that are hunted for the purpose of food and not generally domesticated), said a forest officer privy to the information.
 
 The duo confessed to have killed several jackals in the vicinity. “We have arrested them on specific intelligence inputs. They are being interrogated for more details. The exact number of wildlife killed by them is being ascertained,” said R P Singh, chief of STF (wildlife).
 
 Anonymous source said most of the jackals were killed around Chidi Kho Wildlife Sanctuary in Narsinghgarh region of Rajgarh district, located 70 km from Bhopal.
 
 During interrogation, the accused argued that it was not illegal to kill the jackals. Later, they revealed how jackals were trapped and clubbed to death. They also said that body parts were removed and the skulls were retained with the skin as it fetches good money.
 
 They are being questioned for identification of the areas where the scavengers were trapped and the people to whom their meat was sold, said sources.
 
 Growing demand for jackal’s meat and the belief that its skin and teeth can bring luck have increasingly made the animal vulnerable to poachers.   the protected species amounts to a jail term ranging from three to seven years.
 
  once had a thriving jackal population but growing instances of its poaching now has not only become a concern for state authorities but also for officers in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra where its population is on a constant decline.
 
 
