PUNE: With the festival signalling the beginning of a New Year around the corner, families are busy making grand plans even as cash registers ring across the market.

  is celebrated on the first day of the Chaitra month according to the Hindu calendar. It is a day when families arrange gettogethers and elaborate lunch arrangements follow. Homes are adorned with rangoli and a gudi is hoisted outside homes.
 
 Banker   shared, “I will buy about a dozen Alphonso mangoes to prepare aamras on Padwa. This is my daughter's first Padwa after her wedding last year, so we are planning a get-together. My son-in-law and daughter will also join us for the celebrations.“
 
 Gudi Padwa marks the Maharashtrian New Year and reflects the change in season as people expect hotter days with the onset of summer. Since it is considered an auspicious day, people buying new homes conduct the house warming ceremony on this day. Vimannagar resident   said, “We will perform a puja at our new home since it is an auspicious day. After the ceremony, we will start some renovation work.“
 
 Big ticket items -vehicles, electronic goods and jewellery -are also seeing a positive impact thanks to Gudi Padwa celebrations on March 28, say showroom owners.
 
 After the initial impact of demonetization, car and electronic goods sales have picked up gradually. While the demand for air coolers and air conditioners is on the rise due to the increasing temperature, car sales have seen as much as 10%-12 % increase over last year for the month of March. Nicky Sehgal, managing director of  , stated, “Vehicles' sales have picked up late in the current year but March has been promising. I am expecting a growth of at least 10% for March as compared to the same period, last year.“
 
 Regional service manager at Vijay Sales, Pune, Nilesh Kothari shared, “People have booked electronic goods in advance and requested a delivery on the day of Padwa since it is considered auspicious.“
 
 With the temperature rising over the past week, air coolers and air conditioners have seen increased bookings whereas LED television sets and water purifiers have also found quite a few takers, said Kothari.
 
 Om Parekh, a resident of   has booked a double-door fridge and upgraded the air conditioner at his home thanks to a special festive offer made by an electronic goods dealer. Parekh said, “It's not even April and the temperature is hovering around 38°C and 39°C, it will only get worse gradually. With an auspicious day around the corner, we thought of booking the AC and fridge so we can start the year on a good note.“
 
