THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation will launch   on   and recyclable waste being generated in households from August 15 onwards. The house visit has been planned as part of new   plan based on decentralized models to be launched in the city. 

 The two-day house visit for data collection has been scheduled on August 15 and 16. The door-to-door data collection was finalized in a meeting convened by mayor V K Prasanth as part of ‘Nava Kerala’ mission here on Monday. 
 
 The mission will be implemented with the participation of residents associations, volunteers, Kudumbasree workers and people’s representatives. A team comprising Kudumbasree workers and volunteers will be formed for house-based data collection. An elaborate training programme on mode of collecting information will be conducted prior to data collection exercise. Resource persons from corporation staff will be chosen to conduct training programmes at the ward level. 
 
 A meeting to discuss awareness campaigns will be held on July 28 at 2pm and it will see the participation of councillors, NSS activists, student police cadets, NCC, Kudumbasree, volunteers, socio-cultural organizations and clubs. Ward-level health and sanitation committees will meet on July 30 to plan survey activities and endorsement campaigns. The details on house visits will be communicated to public through road shows, distribution of pamphlets, mike announcements and corner meetings. 
 
 The city corporation has already got approval from district planning committee to execute a three pronged strategy centred on composting at home and community levels, periodic collection and recycling of non-biodegradable articles, as per the plan document for annual plan outlay 2017-18. The approval has been received for projects to the tune of Rs 9.33 crore, one of the biggest investments in decentralized waste management by a civic body in the state for the fiscal. 
 
 The civic body has also begun registration of residents associations in the city as part of gathering information on mode of waste management being followed by each association.
 
 The data collected from house visits will be compiled by the health wing as part of introducing new waste management plan in the city. Corporation plans to install around 15,500 kitchen bins in households and will introduce slab-based service charges for each household depending upon type of waste management service being availed. Separate service charges will be applicable for waste processing using kitchen bin, community aerobic bins and for periodic collection of recyclables. 
 
 
