MUMBAI/KOLKATA:   recently arrested a tea vendor from Kolkata for allegedly faking his background and forging a relationship with a 27-year-old MBA professional between October and December last year. He will be produced before the   on Wednesday. 

 The accused, Gaurav Shaw (30), befriended the victim last October on a matrimonial site by claiming to be a top businessman from Kolkata. He recorded a “nude video” of hers during one of their interactions on Skype and allegedly threatened to post it online if she stopped being intimate with him. Shaw frequently travelled from Kolkata during the two-month period to meet the victim.
 
 She finally lodged a complaint with Powai police on December 12, 2016. In her complaint, she stated: “Shaw approached me with a marriage proposal and gained my trust by claiming to belong to a leading business family of Kolkata. He even claimed to own a flat in Powai. He frequently met me between October and December and captured my video on Skype. When I stumbled upon his real business, he began to blackmail me by threatening to circulate the video online.” Shaw owns a tea stall in Kolkata while his father sells soaps.
 
 Investigators said that initially whenever the victim asked him to arrange for a meeting between the two sets of parents, he would impersonate his father on phone and talk to her family to reassure them of the proposal’s seriousness. 
 
 A police team comprising assistant inspector Avinash Nadvinkeri tracked down Shaw to Kolkata. On Saturday, they arrived at Kolkata’s Chitpur police station to seek help. “We tendered our support to Mumbai police’s assistant inspector Nadvinkeri and his team in taking the help of Chitpur police here in north Kolkata. Shaw was arrested after a raid was carried out at his B K Pal Avenue residence. The team produced Shaw before Sealdah court there on Sunday with a prayer for four days of transit remand. The court allowed the same,” said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, deputy commissioner of police (north Kolkata). 
 
 Shaw has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 417 for cheating, 354 for outraging the modesty of a woman, 354C for voyeurism (watching or capturing the image of a woman engaging in a private act). Cops have seized his cellphone, which will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory to retrieve the video before applying charges under IT Act too. 
 
