JALANDHAR: Even as 13 persons, including a PCS officer, a tehsildar, a naib tehsildar and three Hoshiarpur-based SAD leaders, have already been booked by the vigilance bureau (VB), role of 15 more, including AAP candidate from Hoshiarpur and three executive engineers of PWD (central works), has come under scanner in the Hoshiarpur land acquisition scam for the widening/four-laning of the   national highway of the VB. 

 In its preliminary inquiry, on the basis of which an FIR had been registered by the VB at its economic offences wing police station in Ludhiana, VB investigators have assessed that over Rs 58.58 crore were paid in excess to land owners whose agriculture land was wrongly shown to be residential or commercial.
 
 The FIR, copy of which is available with the TOI, clearly mentions that role of three executive engineers Charanjit Singh Bains,   and Kamal Nain, four patwaris Ashok Kumar, Varinder Kumar, Jaswinder Singh and Rajesh Kaler, two readers Balkar Singh and Sarwan Chand at the SDM and tehsildar offices, respectively, in Hoshiarpur will be looked into during further investigation.
 
 The land owners who had purchased land after notifications and received excess compensation for which their role will be investigated include   (AAP candidate from Hoshiarpur) and Anju Aggarwal. While three Hoshiarpur-based SAD leaders - Hoshiarpur municipal councillor Harpinder Singh Gill, district cooperative bank chairman Satwinderpal Singh Dhatt and Hoshiarpur market committee chairman Avtar Singh Johal - have already been booked, the FIR states that role of their kin would also be investigated. These include Gill's wife Harjinder Kaur and son Amrit Preet Singh, Dhatt's wife Sukhwinder Kaur and Johal's wife Gurinderjit Kaur.
 
 The FIR has been registered on the basis of a report furnished by a SIT of VB led by IG Shiv Kumar Verma.
 
 Former Hoshiarpur SDM Anand Sagar Sharma, who played a central role in the scam, the then tehsildar,  , and naib tehsildar Manjit Singh have already been booked, along with two more patwaris Daljit Singh and Parminder Singh and two clerks. They have been charged with criminal breach of trust, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy under sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. Provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act have also been added in the case.
 
 The SDM was later shifted to Gidderbaha after the scam was exposed by Hoshiarpur based   activist Rajiv Vashisht. 
 
 
