BENGALURU: A year after the   directed all states to constitute three-member tribunals to try cases pertaining to encroachment of wakf properties, the state government has been dragging its feet by constituting a single tribunal in Bengaluru. Initially, the government had promised to form four tribunals in each revenue division to expedite disposal of cases but now it has dropped the idea. It’s planning to have only two tribunals, citing paucity of funds.

 “We will set up a second tribunal in Kalaburagi and have a bench under the jurisdiction of the same tribunal in Belagavi. This tribunal will sit in Kalaburagi for 15 days and Belagavi for the remaining 15 days of a month,” said Mohammad Mohsin, secretary for the minority welfare and wakf department.
 
 Some politicians, Wakf board members and land mafia are accused of misusing the Wakf Board property of around 22,000 acres, worth Rs 2.30 lakh crore. .
 
 In 2010,   chairman   had submitted a report to then chief minister D V Sadananda Gowda, explaining the extent of the land grab which took place in 54,000 acres that was to be used for the benefit of economically backward members of the  . The report named several politicians and recommended a probe by Lokayukta into irregularities in the  .
 
 A panel was constituted by the government in November 2011 following complaints and media reports on the role of politicians and Wakf Board officials in the illegal sale of land to individuals.
 
 The Congress government, which came to power in 2013, however, rejected the report stating that it was beyond the purview of the state legislation and the matter was sub judice.
 
 In December 2015, the Supreme Court issued directives to all state governments that three-member tribunals were to be as per the Wakf (Amendment) Act, 2013.
 
 Sources said each tribunal will cost the government about Rs 1.5 crore that includes capital costs of setting up a permanent office and salary of staff. This apart, they need to take care of the remunerations to the chairman---a district, sessions or civil judge---an officer from the state civil services equivalent to the rank of additional district magistrate and a member having knowledge of Muslim law and jurisprudence.
 
 The Bengaluru tribunal has been asked to handle the wakf dispute cases of Mysuru region. “Considering the distance between Belagavi and Kalaburagi, the tribunal will sit in each region for 15 days of every month but the litigants from Mysuru division have to come to Bengaluru,” said Mohsin.
 
 The second survey of the wakf properties undertaken by the state government is expected to complete this year. According to the minority welfare department officials, 70% of the survey has been completed. The wakf department has identified 12,075 properties in Karnataka. Former chairman of the minorities’ welfare commission Anwar Manipaddy said the constitution of tribunals and surveys will not matter unless the government makes his report public. “The tribunals and surveys are an eyewash to protect politicians,” he said.
 
 
