TRICHY: Members of the central team assessing the drought condition in the state visited various parts of Trichy, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur to assess the ground reality on Wednesday. A large number of farmers and functionaries of farming organsations met the team members and appealed to them to grant them adequate compensation without delay. The farmers also demanded enhancement in the prime minister's insurance scheme which would help them meet at least the input cost. 

 The team headed by Dr CN Maheshwaran, Commissioner of Social Security Schemes, and accompanied by Dr B Ganesh Ram, Research Officer (Agriculture) Niti Aayog, Ratna Prasad, DGM, Food Corporation of India, and Dr  , Fisheries Development Commissioner visited Thiruppattur and Madakudi villages where farmers had taken up cotton, maize and banana and paddy. Briefing reporters at Madakudi, Maheshwaran said that a total of 10 officials had visited the state from Delhi to take stock of the drought situation. The team had split themselves into four out of which two teams visited Trichy after meeting farmers in Ariyalur and Perambalur district on Wednesday. 
 
 "Already Tamil Nadu government has sent a detailed report about the prevailing drought condition in the state after carrying out inspection process with the help of state ministers and officials from concerned department. Farmers have put across their crop loss and how much they spent to raise the crops. All the teams would prepare a detailed report on the basis of field visit and a comprehensive report would be submitted to the union government soon", he further said. 
 
 The team earlier visited Keela Pazhur, Sathamangalam and Ammankulam villages in Ariyalur district and listened to the farmers' grievances. The team also visited Perambalur district and inspected fields located at Perali in Kunnam taluk and   where cotton and maize were raised. Another team visited Pudukkottai district and inspected fields at Ega Perumagalur, Egani Vayal, Perumaruthur, Perunkadu and Pallathivayal and met farmers and farm labourers. 
 
