AMRITSAR: Breaking silence on the issue of initiation ceremony by seven baptized women of   after performing a ‘havan’, the Namdhari   has stated that they had only followed   of Sikhism and didn’t do anything contrary. The society said that the issue was being unnecessarily raked by few persons preparing for the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections.

 Namdhari Satsang Sewa Society general secretary   told TOI on Friday that Namdharis had done nothing divergent from the Sikh principles and traditions. He said instead they had honoured women by giving them more rights. Navtej informed that in June 1863, Namdhari guru Ram Singh had set maryada (code of religious conduct) of performing Sikh marriage by performing havan. He said that earlier the marriages of all Sikh gurus were solemnized according to Vedic traditions around havan by pandits.
 
 The issue came to fore after Akal Takht, on April 24, directed the Dharam Parchar Committee (DPC) of SGPC to investigate into the alleged objectionable religious rituals of the Namdhari sect. Akal Takht jathedar   directed DPC to investigate into the reported incidents of performing havan by baptized women and then holding an initiation ceremony of the sect. The jathedar had stated that the act had “hurt the Sikh religious sentiments”.
 
 On May 5, the top Sikh clergy had constituted an eight-member sub-committee to further probe into the incident and he also sought suggestions from Sikhs living around the globe on the issue.
 
 Society secretary Harvinder Singh said Namdharis had not hurt the Sikhs’ religious sentiments instead they had only followed the set traditions but there were few persons preparing for SGPC elections who had flared up emotions. “We will not initiate legal proceedings against those persons since Sikhs believe in pardoning all,” he said.
 
 He said all the Sikh sects had their own maryadas. “Many sects discarded the ritual of havan but Namdharis continue with it,” he said, adding that many Sikh sects perform havans in one form or the other.
 
 
