CHENNAI: She had always aspired to become a doctor, but Meena* opted for a geology course at a city college after securing 94% in her Class XII board exams this year. 

 With a   score below 150, Meena could not make it to a medical college. But she is not giving up. She has taken up geology as it will give her the time to prepare for the exam next year. "I wanted to drop year but my parents were against it. So I took up a lighter course that would give me enough time to prepare for next year’s NEET," she said.
 
 Meena is not alone. Unable to crack NEET, several students in the city have either decided to take a break or join courses that are less time-consuming.
 
 Rajesh of Pioneer Academy said several students pursuing BSc in Agriculture and BPharma courses want to take up weekend or evening classes for NEET. "Many of them want to give it a shot next year," he said.
 
 Arts and science colleges in the city said they got enquiries following the NEET results even though admissions for most were over in August. Some colleges said they received a higher number of applications for courses across the board. Given the uncertainty surrounding NEET, institutions said students had sensed the high competition and had sought seats in other courses.
 
 Loyola College said they had received around 40,000 applications -- almost 10,000 more than the average number every year – which was an all-time high. "We saw high demand for science courses that are usually not much sought after," said the college’s PRO Anthony Samy.
 
 The prospective NEET takers are not limited to those who have joined arts and science colleges. Several   turned engineering students too are eyeing next year’s NEET. This group has two types of students – while one set has joined engineering for the present academic year and are planning to prepare for NEET, there are those who have finished a year in engineering and are now keen on taking up NEET coaching.
 
 Many students from   have taken TC
 
 after a year of engineering and are enrolling for coaching programmes to pursue medicine. "Some engineering students who had settled for the course want to join crash courses ahead of next year’s NEET," said Sanjay Dadlani of the academy.
 
 There are some, especially from the state board, who are staying away from the colleges altogether. The concept of taking a gap year is not new. Many state board students last year had enrolled for coaching to get a grasp of study material modelled on the CBSE syllabus. 
 
 This year too, many coaching centres have been kept busy, getting enquiries and admitting students for the year-long course. Some centres are offering CBSE Class XI and XII coaching along with NEET material.
 
 K Yagnesh from Holy Cross Matriculation HSS said he decided to drop a year and concentrate on NEET. 
 
 "It was a sudden shift from state board to a CBSE-based paper. So I decided to take a year gap and enroll for coaching as I felt I could do better in NEET if prepared for it," he said. 
 
 (*name changed)
 
