KOLKATA: The recent spate of   has put   in the city under severe  , so much so that some of them have started visiting shrinks to deal with professional anxiety .

 In the last 10 days,   has had five doctors reaching out to her.Earlier, Mukherjee would conduct workshops with doctors to help them deal with stress. But now, the situation has taken a turn for the worse with many doctors going through a num ber of emotions that are contributing to their stress. “ Anger and pain are common. Some sincere and dedicated doctors are having problems because they are being painted with the same brush as others. Some are getting defensive,“ she said.
 
 The perceived change in how the public views them -from saviours to being an inte gral part of an essentially commercial set-up, where service is secondary -has left many medicos with low morale. Some doctors have sought help since they have got disillusioned with the system. “My husband too is adoctor and from him I often get to hear a lot of what many medicos are going through. Unlike in the West, doctors in India didn't have to deal with the fear of being sued. Today , they have to deal with patients and relatives who are threatening them.That's adding to their stress levels,“ Mukherjee said.
 
 According to psychiatrist Sabyasachi Mitra, everyone needs a certain amount of stress to perform. “This medium stress, which is called `EU stress', was helping doctors perform at their best. Now, the stress levels are so high that it has turned into distress. Under such circumstances, the performance of an individual goes down,“ said Mitra, who normally treats around five doctors every month.Now, he is anticipating the figure to go up. “Among my existing doctor patients, I am seeing an increased level of stress and anxiety related to the recent turn of events,“ he said. Generally , the physical symptoms of stress in clude body aches, irritable bowel, lack of sleep, flaring up of skin disease and high blood sugar and blood pressure levels.The emotional symptoms include anger, irritability , palpitation, breathlessness, anxiety , depression and worsening of relationships. With increasing stress, there is possibility of a patient getting depressed and paranoid and some might even get addicted to alcohol.
 
 What has worsened the situation for doctors is blatant blackmail. “Relatives of patients who died five years ago are calling up demanding compen sation. At least 10 doctors I know have been threatened by patient parties who have threatened to file a complaint unless they receive monetary compensation. I had a patient telling me he would shoot off letters to all because he had to wait for a long time before he could be treated,“ said psychiatrist Jairanjan Ram.
 
 Recently , an Islampur-based took to social media to describe how he was allegedly beaten. After the incident, he complained of insomnia and a dip in morale.“I have seen that post. It reveals the kind of trauma doctors are now going through. In this case, this doctor may exhibit symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in future,“ psychiatrist Sabyasachi Mitra said.
 
