Indore: After the Quality Council of India (QCI) carried out a third party inspection at nine places in Gautampura Nagar Panchayat, the area finally received its open defecation free ( ) tag on Monday.

 The nine spots comprised two slums, two residential areas, two commercial areas, two schools and one special location, which were checked for the availability of toilets and their maintenance.
 
 “In a report prepared by the local administration, it was found that at least 306 families did not have toilets at home. So we sanctioned a grant of Rs 12,000 to each family for the construction of toilets,” the sub divisional magistrate, Narendra Pandey told TOI.
 
 He added that the condition of public toilets situated the bus stand, markets and other locations were improved before QCI’s inspection.
 
 In a bid to encourage locals to use toilets, district collector P Narahari had visited the area on December 25 last year.
 
 “While interacting with locals at many places, the collector told them defecating in the open was not only shameful but could also spread disease. It helped discourage the habit of open defecation,” Pandey added.
 
 Meanwhile, Betma Nagar Panchyat failed to get the ODF certificate in its first attempt.
 
 “In its inspection, QCI had highlighted some issues which have been rectified. All necessary work has been completed. Betma and Depalpur Nagar Panchayat will soon be declared ODF,” Pandey added.
 
 Rural parts of Indore district, including 610 villages of 312 Gram Panchayats, were declared ODF in January last year while Indore city was declared ODF in January this year.
 
 The district administration has been making efforts to free all eight Nagar Panchayats including Mhowgaon, Depalpur, Sanwer, Rau, Betma, Hatod, Gautampura and Manpur ODF.
 
 Narahari had instructed senior officials concerned to apply and get the ODF certification for all Nagar Panchayats before January 2626 to declare the district ODF, but this did not come through.
 
 “All the work to get ODF status is in its final stage. We will soon approach the QCI for inspection,” said a senior official.
 
 
