NEW DELHI: The strike by drivers of taxi aggregating companies like Ola and Uber made commuting a nightmare on Friday as fares shot through the roof, with a majority of drivers not taking out their cabs.

 The strike affected mostly those dependent on the taxiaggregating companies as vehicles were few, rides got cancelled at will and those "lucky" enough to get a ride had to pay two to three times the normal fare.
 
 According to estimates by the industry, there are over 1.5 lakh taxis plying in Delhi-NCR on a normal day. On Friday, though, only a fraction of these were on the road. Many cab users were caught unaware.
 
 Rishabh Verma, a resident of Gurgaon, said: "It took me over an hour to finally book a cab, and then it didn't turn up."
 
 Across town, Nidhi Palla too had a tough time, waiting to book a taxi for almost two hours before she finally gave up. "I had to go to Lajpat Nagar for some work, and started looking for a cab around noon. Till 2pm, there wasn't a single cab available on either Ola or Uber, and I finally had to call a taxi from the local stand," Palla, who lives in Mayur Vihar, said.
 
 
 
 
 The striking drivers were protesting the fares charged by the app-based taxi services, which they claimed were too low, as well as a gradual hardening of parameters for incentives being offered by the companies. 
 
 To attract customers, the taxi-aggregating companies have kept fares low, even less than autorickshaws. However, to retain drivers, the companies have been offering incentives based on the number of complete trips made by the driver, the number of rides during peak hours etc. 
 
 But with competition heating up and more drivers becoming available to companies, these incentives have become more difficult to achieve, say drivers.
 
 The drivers' contentions on a number of completed rides are being strictly measured by the companies even as customer feedback defines incentives, the striking drivers say. This has led to a shrink in earning.
 
 Reacting to the strike, an Uber spokesperson said, "A small group of people are disrupting the Uber service in parts of Delhi, and there have been isolated reports of threats and intimidation. We are working hard to ensure reliable rides are available for everyone." Ola meanwhile, refused to comment.
 
 The strike seemed to have resonated with a majority of drivers on both Ola and Uber rolls, as taxis were few on the road through the day. 
 
 The impact was felt the most during peak hours, when not a single cab was showing on either app. During off-peak hours, though some commuters managed to get a ride, the fares were "astronomical", according to many riders. 
 
 "For instance, the fare on   at 9.45am from Noida Sector 120 was Rs 565, which is usually around Rs 300 on a normal day. The Uber-Go fare was Rs 740," said Priti Pandey, a commuter . The Ola app, meanwhile, kept showing no cabs in all its segments through the morning, said Pandey. 
 
 In fact, in the afternoon, Ola started sending notifications advising riders to opt for Ola Auto due to "limited cab availability", said the message.
 
 While neither Ola nor Uber revealed how high the fares went, commuters said the rate was at least double or even three times the normal fare.
 
 
