Colva: Margao’s heritage structure,   Municipal de  , will get a new lease of life with the municipal council working out modalities to restore the building to its past glory.

 Once the hub of administrative affairs, the structure is of historical importance too as it was the sole witness to the bloodbath that inflicted upon innocent Goans by the erstwhile Portuguese regime to wrest power of the civic body from a local outfit.
 
 On September 21, 1890, around 6,000 voters from Margao and surrounding villages had gathered to cast their ballots. In fray were the members of local outfit, Partido Indiano and Portuguese-backed outfit, Partido Ultramarino. Deprived of rule for many years, Ultramarino members were frustrated and determined to grab power this time around.
 
 The peaceful election turned out to be a bloodbath as Major Filipe Torres ordered to open fire at innocent people leaving 23 dead and few hundreds injured. The situation was akin to the Jallianwalla bagh massacre witnessed by the   India, 29 years later.
 
 The heritage structure, located in old market, finds mention in several books. Valmiki Faleiro, former MMC chairperson, who penned ‘Soaring Spirit’ dedicated a chapter to it. He mentioned that the structure was built by the state in 1770 using funds squeezed out of overtaxed Salcete gaunkaris. It was elegant even until the mid-20th century. Gaunkars were taxed as the municipal senate covered the entire taluka.
 
 “The senado (senate) was formed in 1775 and Margao was elevated to the status of a villa (town) on April 3, 1778. The civic body was then raised to the status of a municipality between 1822 and 1824,’’ the book has mention in it. South Goa taluka’s municipal offices were housed in the building.
 
 The author also states that Camara was substantially renovated in 1873, but partly collapsed in 1897 and 1898. In April 1898, the offices of the Camara were shifted to a premises at a location which is now the new municipal market.
 
 Following the footsteps of state in 1770, the present council too has used the part of funds allotted for burial grounds for acquiring this dilapidated building from its original owners, says a ward councilor, Glen Andrade.
 
 He informed that the previous council had resolved to demolish the building as it was unsafe. However, the present council passed a resolution to buy it from its owner, Alina Araujo Vaz and send the proposal to the Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA), for approval.
 
 “I worked hard for convening meetings with the local MLA and TCP minister, Vijai Sardesai several times. Vijai was keen in preserving the structure, but the question was about fund generation. He, however, came out with a solution,’’ Andrade said.
 
 “The present municipal council, headed by Babita Angle Prabhudesai plans to acquire and restore the heritage building. For the first time, too, the local MLA Vijai Sardesai, has shown firm and unwavering commitment to heritage protection and conservation. This happily augurs well for the future of the historic building, which many had written off as irredeemable,” Valmiki Faleiro said.
 
 In 2009, the then chairperson, Savio Coutinho had adopted a resolution to acquire and conserve Camara as it had historical importance.
 
 But the last council under chairperson, Arthur D’silva had listed it for demolition, but refrained after a banner of protest raised by senior citizens and heritage lovers.
 
 Sardesai said, “The issue has to be settled properly with the owners getting their dues. Moreover, tenants need to be fairly compensated. Experts will be roped in for its restoration which will be funded through archives and archaeology department,” he said. The ground floor of the building had six shops, three on either side of the entrance porch.
 
 
