Nandyal: Having posted half-a-dozen cabinet ministers, 20 MLAs and a couple of dozens of senior leaders, chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) supremo N Chandrababu Naidu has deployed teams of the intelligence bureau (IB) to the constituency. The first batch of IB sleuths would meet people in every village and interact with them to make an on-the-spot assessment of the voters.

 Chandrababu Naidu, sitting comfortably with power in hand, has already prepared the ground for the party to win the seat. The number of welfare schemes launched here during the last three months and the sentiment over the sudden death of Bhuma Nagi Reddy are weighed heavily among the voters to keep them with the ruling party.
 
 In addition to this, the CM is planning to win over the voters with a number of welfare schemes, including the NTR Housing programme. The officials concerned have already collected a considerable number of applications from eligible beneficiaries for houses which keeps the ruling party on the edge. “A house for a poor and lower middle class family is a lifetime dream. It runs above politics,” a senior politician said.
 
 He further said, “The election is not going to change the power equations in the state. It neither brings the Opposition party to power nor strips the ruling party of it. So, the   goes by the benefits offered by the party in power and house is a big promise. Imagine 25,000 families hoping to get houses in the next two years after the election.”
 
 While the fact remains that the by-election is always an advantage for the party in power, the TDP is not prepared to lose even a single vote for any reason. Chandrababu Naidu himself being an unmatched poll strategist, is leaving no room for the negative vote. It is for this reason that he had deployed the IB sleuths to get first-hand information on the mood of the people.
 
 The task of the IB sleuths is to be in the midst of small gatherings at tea shops, bus stops, parks and other places and listen to what the people say about tje election. If no one talks on the subject, they have to initiate discussions and read their minds.
 
 
