 was in India to shoot for his upcoming Canadian TV series, which will see him teaming up with actor   for his first ever leading role on the small screen. The celebrated comedian spoke to BT about why it was essential that the series be partially shot in India and also cleared the air about his love-hate relationship with  . Excerpts...
 
 
 
 
 
 I have a lot of friends in Bollywood despite what people think. Come to think of it, you don’t say bad things about people you don’t like. However, a lot of times, the message gets lost and twisted.
 
 
 
 
 
 I haven’t seen any (comedy) in Bollywood. So, I can’t say one way or the other. Are they making them now? (laughs). In Hollywood, they are kind of dropping the ball. The truth is, I haven’t watched any films in a long time. I watch a lot of documentaries, considered nerdy stuff, which you probably wouldn’t associate with me.
 
 
 
 
 
 We were recently shooting at  . When most of my co-actors went back to the vanity van during a break, I took a walk around. I was amazed by the lives I saw there. There was this little girl, who might not be living the optimum life, but she looked so happy. She made me think that maybe, I am not living the optimum life as well. She kept calling me English Uncle. I have been to many countries and visited underprivileged areas but they always made me feel uneasy. You don’t get that in India. It’s the mindset that sets us apart from the rest of the world.
 
 
 
 
 
 I play a cop in Toronto, who gets suspended after landing in trouble. When my dad (played by Anupam Kher) gets to know about it, he fakes an illness to make me visit him in India. Once here, I meet a pretty girl named Mira, who lives in the same apartment as my father. She is a lawyer, who works for the poor and the destitute. She thinks I am a detective and asks me to help her solve some case, which upsets the corrupt local police.
 
 
 
 
 
 The film was initially shot in Capetown, but I kept telling the director that he can fake the interiors, but not Mumbai. In a way, I convinced him and the team to come here.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
