GURGAON: More than 200 protesting students of Government High School in Kadarpur, Gurgaon, demanding the state government should upgrade their school from Class X (secondary) to Class XII (higher secondary), returned home victorious, after late in the day, the Gurgaon sub-divisional magistrate arrived with an approval from Chandigarh, extending their school to Class XII. This, days after a similar protest was taken out by students in  . Students, currently in Class X, will continue their higher secondary education in the same campus next year. 

 The protest began around 9am and continued for several hours. The students sat on the main road passing through the village right outside their school, blocking it in the scorching sun. They did not relent even after education officials reached the spot and pleaded with them to move to the shade.  , who rushed to the spot, said, “We were deployed to ensure there is no untoward incident. However, the issue was sorted peacefuly.”
 
 According to the students, after Class X, they had to go to Government Senior Secondary School in Badshapur, which is around 7km away, for which they had to walk 2km to avail a shared auto, which they said is an “unsafe” option. 
 
 “There are over 150 girls in Class X in this school right now, from villages Kadarpur, Ullawas and Behrampur, of which, only 15 will be able to continue studies if they have to attend higher secondary in Badshapur. The rest won’t be permitted to travel the distance unescorted by their families,” said Aarti Daima, a Class X student. Daima’s grouse was while the government talks of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, girl students like herself have to overcome huge barriers for their education. 
 
 Many girl students said their sisters, who go to the  , are often harassed by men, who whistle and stalk. “My elder sister attends Badshapur Senior Secondary School. She is often harassed by men on the way. At school, they have to face a crowd of rowdies,” said Priya Daima, a 10th grader at Kadarpur school. Many boys supported their girl batchmates. “There is no transport to Badshapur school. Most days, students say they reach late and are punished,” asked Sahil, a Class X student, narrating his friend’s xperience who studies in Class XII.
 
 The students demanded a written promise, containing signatures of officials. A district education officer told TOI they have given a memo promising to meet the demands, but students said the memo was written on a white sheet with no letterhead or signature. “In April itself, we got a proposal from the panchayat for a higher secondary school in the village, and have forwarded it to head office for approval,” said Neelam Bhandari, district education officer.
 
 
