LUCKNOW: To celebrate the festival of colours,   India has launched special schemes for its UP East subscribers by offering new tariff plans. These will be available from March 10 to 14, 2017. As part of these offerings, STV 22 will give customers local and STD calls at 20 paise per minute. Additionally, all local and STD calls will be free by recharging for STV 299. Both these products will be valid for 28 days. Also, customers can top up with Rs 25 to avail full talk-time value.

 Company said that these products have been designed, keeping in mind the festive season where people like to stay connected with their family and friends. Launching the products, KC Narendran, Circle Business Head, UP East, Telenor India said, “As the nation gets soaked in the spirit of Holi, we are delighted to offer products which will ensure seamless communication between them and their loved ones. Telenor India, is committed to drive affordability of telecom services among masses and we have been consciously launching innovative and value for money products. With these exciting new products, Telenor reinstates its customer-centric focus and ‘Sabse Sasta – Sabke Liye’ value proposition. I want to extend my heartfelt wishes to you and your families on the festive occasion of Holi, stay safe and play safe.”
 
 Customers can avail these offers at the nearest retail outlet, at any Telenor store, nearest point of sale or through online recharge from the Telenor India website, mobile app and e-load. They can also dial USSD code or can subscribe to the packs by simply calling 121. Telenor said to have about 690 distributors and over 1 lakh points of sale serving nearly 12.6 million customers in the UP East circle. Officials said, “Across its six circles, Telenor now has more than 40 towns offering 4G services. With this Telenor has moved a step closer to its ambition of Internet for All and becoming the preferred partner in the digital life of its customers.”
 
 Telenor India is a wholly owned company of the Norway-based  . It has commercial operations in UP (West), UP (East),   (including  ),   (including Telangana), Maharashtra (including Goa) and Gujarat. In the areas where it operates, Telenor is the fourth largest operator both in revenue and customer market share. Telenor has positioned itself as a ‘full paisa vasool’ operator and has over 52.6 million subscriptions from the six circles.
 
