PATNA: Railways has beefed up security on   ( ) following the luggage lifting and theft incidents in the three coaches of the train near Bhadaura on the   mainline section of   under   (ECR) in the wee hours of Sunday.
 
  Miscreants took away valuables worth about Rs4 lakh from the passengers between Bhadaura and Gahmar from the A4, B7 and B8 coaches. Seven members of the RPF escort party were suspended for dereliction of duty.
  
  Danapur DRM R K Jha said on Monday that it was decided in a high-level security meeting on Sunday itself to reinforce security measures in Rajdhani Express. The RPF and RPSF personnel escorting Rajdhani Express trains have now been equipped with automatic weapons, dragon searchlights and advance communication system to handle emergency situations, he said, adding that the railway security personnel have been asked to carry on search of the coaches thoroughly and ensure foolproof safety to passengers at any cost.
  
  Railways has now decided to use sniffers at Patna Junction, Mughalsarai and other major stations and railway security personnel would randomly travel in mufti in the Rajdhani Express to maintain a close vigil on the miscreants, sources said.
  
  The DRM said the coach attendants of Rajdhani Express were not the railway staff. They were outsourced by the contractors and thus Patna GRP interrogated them on Sunday. Railways has, however, put on alert all its security personnel escorting mail and express trains to keep a close watch on the activities of coach attendants, he said, adding that assistant security commissioners (ASCs) of RPF would now check alertness of the escort parties on duty.
  
  Patna superintendent of railway police (SRP) Jitendra Mishra said Patna GRP forwarded the case to Mughalsarai GRP for thorough investigation in the case. The SRP of Allahabad division would now personally supervise the case, he said, adding that attendants of the three affected coaches from where luggage and valuables were taken away have been sent to SRP Allahabad for further interrogation.
