Thane: The decision of reserving a certain number of seats for women was said to be a big step towards curbing gender disparity in politics. However, of the 67 women coporators elected to the   ( ) in 2012, a good 58%— which is 39— women are reportedly a mere shadow of their husbands, brothers or father-in-law who control the reins of power; thus raising questions on the effectiveness of giving proportionate representation to women in politics.

 The gender-based   of 50% seats for women in the local self-government bodies across Maharashtra may have helped women to participate in the socio-political mileu. However, a TOI assessment of women corporators based on their performance in the general body meetings and at the wards leaves much to be desired from the women representatives. 
 
 ‘‘In most cases, these women were mere rubber stamp authorities and their husbands, brothers or even sons would take decisions on budgetary spending, meetings with contractors, civic staff, etc,’’ a civic official said.
 
 He added that the women corporators would huddle together in one section of the meeting hall of the general body of the TMC and their participation in the discussion was near negligible.
 
 In fact, women   in municipal corporations resulted in the political heavy weights cornering the seats for their family memebrs.
 
 Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik secured a ticket for his wife Parisha, sitting Thane MP Rajan Vichare’s wife Nandini was elected as corporator from Charai, NCP corporator from Kalwa Manali is the wife of senior party functionary Milind Patil and then Congress corporator Ravi Phatak ensured a part ticket and victory for his wife Jayashree. Then MNS leader in the TMC Sudha Chavan also secured a ticket to his close relative Tejaswini.
 
 The Sena had a highest women representation with 30 corporators, 20 of whom had a male member in the family who was an active party functionary. Of the 16 women corporators of the NCP, eight belonged to a political family. It was seen that out of the total 67 women corporators, only 28 have no one to guide them and have been working on their own strategies and have no shadow to fall back on, since the last five years.
 
 In the past 30 years of the TMC, only three women have become first citizens (mayor) of the city. The last female mayor was Smita Indulkar who was elected in 2007.
 
