NEW DELHI: “Why will I pay the bill of   from my pocket,” said CM Arvind   as he addressed a rally in northeast Delhi’s Sundar Nagri on Tuesday evening. The AAP national convener asked the public as to who should pay the fee—the Delhi government or Kerjriwal.

 Incidentally, Sundar Nagri was the ground zero of Kejriwal’s RTI movement. Launched more than 15 years ago, it was aimed at unearthing corruption in the PDS scheme and other public services. 
 
 On Tuesday, Kejriwal returned to the area, seeking the support of locals for AAP ahead of the civic polls. “Friends, I am feeling very good coming to Sundar Nagri, which is my home. Many years ago, we came out to unearth corruption in the system from this place,” he said. 
 
 “There was corruption in Delhi & District Cricket Association. Young cricket aspirants used to come to me to complain about corruption in the selection process,” Kejriwal said to justify the committee set up by his government to look into the functioning of the DDCA and submit a report. 
 
 “But BJP filed a case against me...Why should I pay Jethmalani’s fee from my pocket. The public should tell me who should pay the fee—the government or Kejriwal,” Kejriwal said in a bid to justify his government’s stand on payment in the defamation case filed against him by Union finance minister  . Jethmalani, a senior lawyer, is defending Kejriwal in the case. 
 
 AAP is caught in a political storm over reports of how the Delhi government wants the state exchequer to foot the lawyer’s hefty bill—Rs 3.42 crore.
 
 Earlier in the day, deputy CM Manish Sisodia mounted the defence of the AAP-led Delhi government saying, “This whole matter is related to the corruption in DDCA...Many renowned names in the field of cricket complained about the working of DDCA to the CM. Based on these complaints, the CM set up a probe into the functioning of DDCA. The probe committee in its report found a lot of corruption in DDCA.”
 
 Sisodia said it was the Delhi government, which is fighting against corruption. “Kejriwal is standing behind the youth dreaming of becoming cricketers and will continue to support them,” the deputy CM said. 
 
 Sisodia also alleged that the Kejriwal was being attacked for highlighting the issue of tampered EVMs. “This fee issue is being highlighted now when the EVM scam has been unearthed in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Kejriwal expressed apprehension that health minister Satyendar Jain might be arrested within a week. “After we came to power, Jain introduced a slew of health schemes, which annoyed some big medicine companies and corrupt agents. They (companies) went to BJP seeking help. After this, CBI lodged four cases against Jain,” Kejriwal said, adding, “Jain might be arrested within a week.” 
 
