JAIPUR:   (SMS) doctors have adopted a new imaging procedure, which illuminates common   (CBD) with green fluorescent colour during gallbladder (with stones) removal   helping the surgeons to visualise CBD easily to prevent injuries.

 The surgeons inject a kind of dye, which gives fluorescent green colour to CBD. “Though surgery for gallbladder removal is simple, but it can prove to be dangerous. Now, to avoid any such risks of complications, we have started using an indocyanine green (ICG) dye for the first time,” Dr Jeevan Kankaria, associate professor, department of general surgery, Sawai Man Singh Hospital said.
 
 The technique is known as endoscopic near infra-red visualisation and infra-red illumination system. The doctors are illuminating CBD without using any radiation therapy. Doctors claimed that the dye is safe which goes into blood after being injected into the patient. It is being used in different countries and few hospitals outside Rajasthan too are using it.
 
 The CBD is most susceptible to injuries during surgeries for gallbladder removal. According to the available figures, even today these types of complications occur from about one to 3%. “If the CBD is injured, there could be a chance of permanent jaundice which can lead to hospitalisation of patient for around 3-6 months. The treatment will be costly. It can cost him his life. So, precision in surgery is required,” Dr Kankaria said.
 
 So far, doctors in SMS Hospital have used the new imaging technique in the hospital on 70 patients. The doctors conduct gallbladder removal surgeries (laparoscopic cholecystectomies), without any such new imaging technique. It is surgeon’s expertise which prevents injuries to CBD. But, now as cases of CBD injuries may go to court, the doctors are more careful about the precision of the surgery. They inject the dye before 30 minutes of surgery. They use a specific kind of camera which helps them visualise CBD easily as it illuminates in fluorescent green colour. They remain careful so that the illuminating part will not get injured.
 
 The dye cost is just Rs140 per patient.
 
 
