MUMBAI: This must be a first of its kind, but considering the packed nature of international cricket these days, this was bound to happen sooner or later. On Friday, Australia will become the first cricketing nation to play a warm-up game of a tour and a Twenty20 International on the same day.

 So, even as   leads his boys for a practice game against India A at the Brabourne Stadium in Cricket Club of India (CCI) here, thousands of miles away, back home at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG),   will shepherd the T20 team against Sri Lanka.
 
 The Australian fans will thus go through the unique experience of following the performance of both their teams through the day.
 
 So far, Smith and Co. have trained rigorously in Dubai and then at the Brabourne Stadium here for this tour, but it's this match which will prove most valuable to them to tune up for the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. It is, after all, the visitors' only practice game before the first Test begins in Pune from Feb 23.
 
 They would like to make full use of this opportunity if they are to avoid an encore of the 0-4 shellacking they got in 2013. As always, the Aussies boast of an exciting batting line-up.  , perhaps the most exciting opener in world cricket right now, and Matt Renshaw will start the innings, with Usman Khawaja, Smith, Peter Handscomb, and the Marsh brothers - Shaun and Mitchell - and 'keeper   following.
 
 All the batsmen will be keen to practise against spin, which provides a chance for Jharkhand left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, who has been ignored despite being the highest wicket-taker for the past two Ranji seasons, and Uttar Pradesh chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav, who is a part of the India squad for the first two Tests against the tourists.
 
 This will also be an opportunity for Australia's bowlers to acclimatise to Indian pitches. Three of their key bowlers - Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood and offspinner Nathan Lyon, will look to hit their strap as early as possible.
 
 Meanwhile, quite a few India A players would be feeling a bit 'weird' as they change into their 'whites' from the coloured jerseys they have been wearing for their respective teams. Less than a kilometre away from the Brabourne, the likes of Priyank Panchal, Shreyas Iyer, Ankit Bawne, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Shahbaz Nadeem, and Ashok Dinda have been playing in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament since last Sunday.
 
