PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Maharashtra government has announced compensation to 26 municipal corporations to make up for loss in revenue incurred due to the implementation of   (GST). With the implementation of   from July 1, the local government bodies were deprived of their major sources of income, like vehicle entry tax and  

 The government has earmarked Rs1,385.27 crore for the month of July, out of which Pune Municipal Corporation will get Rs137.3 crore and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will get Rs128.97 crore. 
 
 In this regard, the state government had issued a government resolution on July 4. “The implementation of GST has begun from July 1 throughout the country as per the Union government notification. Entry tax, octroi, local body tax (LBT), secondary taxes or any other tax collected as per the old register 52 state list of seventh schedule of constitution has been abolished. A gazette notification has been made that   (compensation to local bodies) Act 2017 dated July 1, 2017 has come into effect,” the government resolution stated.
 
 This decision was welcomed by the civic authorities. “PCMC used to get an average of Rs137 crore per month through LBT. Thanks to this, we will not suffer any income loss due to GST,” Maheshkumar Doiphode, PCMC assistant commissioner and LBT department head, told TOI.
 
 These grants will be adjusted with grants that are distributed to the local bodies under Maharashtra GST (compensation to local bodies) Act 2017.
 
 Subsidy may fail to offset income shortfall to PMC
 
 Regardless of the compensation from the state government, the GST implementation may still burn a hole in the pockets of the Pune Municipal Corporation.
 
 The problem here lies in the financial year, on which the government has based the compensation. The government has taken 2015-16 fiscal as the base year for the compensation, for which a notification was issued. As per PMC sources, the   collected Rs 1,465.50 crore in local body tax (LBT) in 2015-16 fiscal. The revenue from LBT shot up by over Rs 100 crore in 2016-17 fiscal to Rs 1,570.80 crore.
 
 “We were expecting the government to base the compensation on the fiscal with highest revenue generation in the LBT. However, the government has based the subsidy on the fiscal with lesser revenue generation. This is bound to cause a financial loss of about Rs 50 crore annually to the PMC in the compensation,” sources from the LBT department of the PMC told TOI.
 
