VISAKHAPATNAM:   festivities have gripped all sections of people in the port city.

 This time, the three-day Sankranti festival happens to be on a weekend which accentuated the holiday mood all the more. Friday, the first day of the festivities was Bhogi in south India and Lohri in   and UP. A ritualistic bonfire was lit in the early winter morning on Friday in front of houses and in colonies to consign all negativities of the past in the fire and usher in spring.
 
 Following the Bhogi and Lohri fire, the Tamil and Telugu communities decorated their doorsteps with colourful kolam (rangoli). Pujas at most homes are also performed. The city temples too are beautifully decorated as special pujas are held in the main temples and thousands of devotees throng them. Like every year, most Vizagites would spend the Sankranti holidays with family and friends.
 
 Pongal or   is incomplete without its special cuisine. Various communities prepare special dishes during the festivities. While the Tamil community prepares sweet pongal with rice, jaggery, dal, coconut, and dry fruits, people in Andhra also savour dishes such as arisalu, garelu and pulihora to usher in the festival. On Kanuma day (third day of Sankranti), non-vegetarians would eat chicken and meat, pointed out V Bharathi, a homemaker from the city. Among the Punjabi community, popular dishes such as makki-di-roti and sarson-da-saag are made as part of Lohri feast besides traditional sweets including gajak and rewri. For members of Bengali and Odiya community too, Sankranti is all about sweets such as malpua, jaggery payesh (payasam) and various kinds of pithas (sweet dimsum dipped in jaggery and milk).
 
 Kite festival including kite flying competitions play an important part in Sankranti celebrations. Kite stalls selling kites of all shapes and sizes have dotted various areas of the city, specially the  , as the city is gearing up for kite festival.
 
 Meanwhile, some city NGOs have cautioned against kite flying using glass-coated strings. Flying kites, especially those with glass-coated strings is a bane for hundreds of birds that are crippled or die. Vivek Rathore, a member of Bird Watchers’ Society of Vizag and   said, informed that high-flying birds including pigeons, crows and black kites chiefly fall victim to the kite flying as the strings are coated with glass to facilitate cutting another kite thread.
 
 “There is not much awareness and shops are flooded with kites with glass coated strings instead of ordinary strings. Worse, there’s nobody to take care of the injured and bleeding birds when they fall or get entangled in the kite strings.” In case people spot injured birds, they can contact the helpline number 9052797234.
 
 
