LUCKNOW:   on Wednesday hired 15 bouncers to curb   of the boys' hostel.   installed last month were done away with and   were removed as the two measures failed to check indiscipline.

 LU will also be filing an   in the central mess DVR and CCTV theft cases which took place last week. When TOI visited the mess in the evening, hostellers were having their dinner under the watch of bouncers who also checked credentials of every one entering the mess. Vicechancellor SP Singh said from now on, bouncers will be present in the central mess along with LU officials during meal times.
 
 “Security guards were not able to stop outsiders from coming to the mess.They also couldn't do a thing when biometric machines were broken and ration was stolen. So the only solution to catch outsiders was to change the security,“ said the V-C. All hostellers have been issued new mess cards which will be used in the place of biometric attendance, he added.
 
 LU had suspended mess facilities in the hotels in April this year following complaints that outsiders often come to the mess and create problems. In their place, a modern central mess was started on August 14 with biometric attendance machines to check entry of outsiders.However, some outsiders, with the help of a few hostellers, continued to frequent the mess and when stopped, they broke biometric machines. Later, they also stole CCTV cameras and recordings to destroy evidence. Incidents of ration theft and assault on mess employees were also reported. On Monday, the mess in charge stopped work and threatened to discontinue services.
 
 The new mess cards issued for the six boys' hostels are different from each other to check misuse. The white mess card has different coloured stripes; it's green for Habibullah hostel, red for Acharya Narendra Dev, blue for Birbal Sahni, brown for Lal Bahadur Shashtri, purple for Subhash and yellow for Mahmudabad hostel card.
 
 
 
 Lucknow University has served hostel cancellation notice to 93 students who failed to pay the mess fees. In all, 200 students who had not deposited fees were asked on Saturday to do so in three days.While 107 students paid, the rest have been warned that if they fail to submit the fee by Thursday, their hostel allotment will be cancelled, said LU V-C SP Singh. 
 
