Nagpur: In a decision that defies all logic, the urban development department has decided to condone the delay in payment of charges to Nagpur Improvement Trust ( ) even as it acknowledged that the agency officials had erred in not cancelling the lease.

 The beneficiaries of this decision include late notorious criminal Harishchandra Dhawde, the brother of BJP corporator Anil Dhawde. NIT too is guilty on this count as it had proposed to let off the defaulters.
 
 Sixteen people had taken NIT plots and shops on lease between 1981 and 2011. These people did not pay the entire amount to NIT as per norms but continued to use the leased properties.
 
 Instead of taking action against them, NIT officials chose to look the other way. Now, the government has decided to allow the defaulters to pay but has asked the chairman to find out the guilty officials and take appropriate action against them.
 
 A government resolution (GR) in this regard states that NIT should find out the balance amount of each defaulter and then levy 15% interest for the period from the date of payment of last instalment and March 31, 2016.
 
 It should also calculate the value of the plot or shop as per the 2016 ready reckoner. The lessee should be asked to pay whichever is the higher amount within 30 days. If the defaulting lessee fails to pay up , then the amount paid by him or her should be returned and his/her ownership or occupancy rights should be annulled.
 
 Elsewhere, the GR states that when the lessee had failed to deposit the second instalment with NIT, the officer concerned should have immediately returned the first instalment and cancelled the lease. However, no such action was taken.
 
 NCP leader Vedprakash Arya slammed the government for condoning the defaulters. “The government should have taken back properties from them. The NIT officials concerned should be suspended as they caused financial loss to the agency and, hence, public at large. Had these lessees been common citizens, their properties would have been taken back,” he said.
 
 ‘Beneficiaries’ of govt decision
 
 Harishchandra Dhawde: 5,000 sq ft
 
 Indo Agro Products: 11,625 sq ft
 
 Naresh Phule: 4,843 sq ft
 
 Sabirbhai Sheikh: 1,937 sq ft
 
 Apna Builders & Developers: 4,843 sq ft
 
 
