The spectacular   in   might soon be a thing of the past. Reason: a government-funded environment agency has submitted a report to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), recommending a ban on events (like beach weddings and parties) being held on ecologically-sensitive zones. According to the report, over 800 high-end weddings are organised in Goa annually, especially in five-star properties which are located along the coastline. 

 Given the fact that Goa is Mumbai's favourite destination for weddings or parties, the prospect of a ban has majorly impacted wedding planners in the city . Says Harsha Shukla, a wedding planner in the western suburbs, “We get about 10-12 wedding bookings for Goa every year. With this new recommendation for a ban, we might lose out on bookings for a beach wedding, which ideally costs anywhere between Rs 30 -70 lakhs.”
  
 
 
 Richa Aggarwal, who organises destination weddings along with sister, Alekha, believes that the expanse of land available for a beach wedding is humongous in Goa. "Couples experiment with their ceremonies there. From having a beach-side mehendi party to setting up a grand mandap along the coastline – we’ve got requests of all kinds. Some couples have also organised a cocktail ceremony under the starry night on the beach. This ban will make it difficult to find another destination that can accommodate weddings on a larger scale.”
  
 Thirty-two year old Nitya Shivaprasad, who is tying the knot with boyfriend, Amit Upadhyay says, “My fiancé and I have been planning for a beach wedding in the month of November this year. But we heard that the ban may come into place last month. We are upset as months of planning has gone into it. We had planned a morning wedding, so we wanted our mandap to be decorated with orchids and white lilies. It would look beautiful with the beach in the background. But, our parents do not wish to take a chance and have asked us to consider another option like Alibaug, which is closer to the city. However, I wish this ban does not come into place so that we can go ahead with our ‘dream destination wedding in Goa’.”
  
 
 
 Wedding planner Sheetal Gauri Kumar, who has organised several outstation weddings, says, “The requests for a beach wedding in Goa come in for the months of November, January, February and March, when the weather is pleasant and suitable for an outdoor celebration. However, this month we haven’t received any bookings for a Goa wedding. We have couples enquiring about places like Udaipur, Jaisalmer, Kerala, Gujarat and even Kashmir!"
  
 Advertising professional Krupa Shah, who is getting married towards the end of the year, had also planned for a beach wedding. However, last month, she and her to-be husband decided to change the destination for Udaipur,  . She says, “I was excited that we would have a beach wedding, but my father’s friend told us about this report. We chose not to wait a day and started looking for other options. We settled in for a fort wedding on the outskirts of Udaipur. Now, we will get married on the desert instead of the beach. The only difference is that there won’t be sea in the backdrop but a vast expanse of sand dunes.” 
  
 
 
 Destination weddings on beaches have become hugely popular and successful in Goa. It brings in high quality tourists who spend large amount of money, benefitting local economy and providing livelihood to service providers like decorators, caterers, musicians etc. Unlike Rajasthan, the backdrops of such weddings (which can last for seven days) take place on beaches and adjacent coastal areas, which includes setting up of pandal-cum shamiana on the beach, food stalls, sound and light décor.
  
 
 
 While directing the organisers to ensure that there is no damage inflicted on the vegetation of the area such as creepers and other flora, NCSCM has also stated that the stage set-up for such weddings should be done without the use of cement, concrete or permanent material. Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority and the tourism department have been asked to deny or withdraw the permissions granted to organisers of such weddings, if they are found to be violating the norms. NCSCM has also put a cap that such events should not be held for more than three days.
 
 
 
 Alibaug 
 Manori 
 Murud 
 Diveagar 
 Kihim 
 
 
 
 
 
 I had a beach wedding in Goa. It would be really sad for those who won't be able to realise their dream of having a destination/beach wedding there. Beach weddings are lovely and quite intimate. It was for me. For someone like me who loves the beach and the sand, it was a huge deal to have my special moment there. People normally have a beach wedding because it also becomes a quick trip/holiday for them. There is absolutely no reason why it should be banned as long as those who wish to have a beach wedding are conscious about nature and ensure ways to conserve it.
  
 
 
 I don’t think Goa can ban all any kind of partying on the beach as it is a party destination. But having said that, Goa’s tourism heavily depends on the parties and nightlife it has. But, the wedding scene may take a toll. Those who want a beach wedding can consider other options, and I think Kerala, if developed, can be that option. It’s a wonderful destination with white sands and azure water. The beaches there are great, in fact even better than Goa. If it gets promoted as an upscale exclusive beach destination, Kerala will be my first choice.
  
 
 
 People really look forward to having their wedding in Goa because the beaches are so clean. I was privileged to have my bachelorette party there in time. It will be very disappointing for those who still haven’t got married. It is a wonderful destination where two people can tie the knot.
  
 
 
 I might sound like the party pooper but I strongly feel we need stricter laws for holding private events at public spaces, especially in Goa. And, this comes from the standpoint of maintaining our beaches and having discipline in a state which probably is the tourist capital of the country. The old world, quiet charm of Goa is slowly giving away to loud music and commercialisation. Instead of a blanket ban, they can consider putting in place stricter laws, which is the need of the hour.
  
 
