RANCHI: Hotels and restaurants in the city are facing a   because of the ongoing crackdown on unlicensed meat shops and  . Many   have increased the prices of  . 

 With more than 350 meat shops having shut down already, hoteliers and eateries are procuring their daily requirement of meat from rural pockets of the state and sometimes from neighbouring districts of West Bengal.
 
 Ramesh Singh, a hotelier in Ranchi’s Main Road, have started bringing dressed chicken from a poultry farm in Jonha. He is worried about the cost of transportation that is burning a hole in his pocket. “The consumption of non-vegetarian food has dropped because of the rising temperature and ongoing Navratra rituals. But we have to keep the interests of other guests in mind. But after many meats shops in the city have downed their shutters, I am left with no choice but to turn to meat sellers in the rural areas. Following the ban, the transporter is charging us extra to supply meat,” Singh said. 
 
 He added that he is considering to hike the prices of the non-vegetarian dishes on the menu. 
 
 Another restaurateur in Lalpur, Sujit Biswas, is procuring goat meat from Purulia’s Jhalda in West Bengal. “Chicken is still available in black market, albeit at a higher rate. But, goat meat has gone off the streets. I have tied up with a Jhalda-based supplier who is supplying meat every two days,” Biswas said. He added he had to increase the price of non-vegetarian dishes in his restaurant marginally to avoid running on losses.
 
 Asit Kundu, manager of Capitol Residency hotel in Station Road, said the picture will be clear after Navratri. “The consumption on non-vegetarian food has reduced due to Navratri. We have the supply. But it remains to be seen what happens after the festival,” Kundu said. 
 
 The situation may turn worse in the days to come. The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is gearing up to roll back the existing licences to replace them with new ones. The move will render the licences of slaughterhouses and meat shops invalid.
 
