CHENNAI: The eye that peeped through the narrow opening of the gate grills was suspicious. At the mention of the word donation, it softened into a smile. A heavy chain rattled, the lock needed some coercing to click apart, and the entrance was opened by a man in saffron robe: “Welcome to  , madam,“ he beamed.

 Posing as donors, TOI visited the unlicensed children's home run by   in Madanandapuram, Pozhichalur, along with a member of the child welfare committee in Chengalpet on Wednesday. Another man emerged from an office, right next to the gates. “We saw you on our CCTV even before you rang the bell. Security here is that tight,“ he said, introducing himself as Velu, the home's caretaker. When asked who owned the institution, he said the person, Ganesan, was travelling “seeking donations“.
 
 Although Velu insisted that the home, started 25 years ago, had all the necessary registration papers, the institution, sources in the directorate of social defence say, has for long been an embarrassment to the department. It was first pulled up when an inspection team found an old-age home being operated inside. Many of the elderly were found undernourished.
 
 In another instance, a boy escaped the home and approached the  , alleging he was physically abused. On April 20, a 13-year-old boy was found dead under “mysterious circumstances“. Their licence was later cancelled when officials found that the entire building was illegal as it was set up on government poramboke land.
 
 When TOI asked to see the children, the man in saffron opened a second gate that almost scaled the ceiling and unbolted a rickety door. “Don't go inside. We will bring them out. There are two ferocious dogs inside,“ he said. There were seven children, three girls and four boys. Two of the girls were 16-year-olds and identified themselves as Padmini and Ramya. The other was a shy eight-year-old. When asked if there were no women staff on the premise, Velu said the cook was a woman and she had gone to buy vegetables.
 
 “But why are you asking like that? We all are one family. Sometimes I take these children to my house in Oo ty,“ he said, patting Ramya's shoulder. TOI has a recording of this exchange.
 
 Promising a donation, TOI left the premise and alerted a CWC team headed by committee member Zaheeruddin Mohammad. They arrived in 20 minutes along with two policemen and knocked at the gates. It took another 20 minutes for Velu to open the gates. There was no child inside.
 
 “They admitted they didn't have a licence and were in the process of shutting down. When we asked them if they housed children, they looked aghast,“ said Zaheeruddin. Police suspect the children could have been shuttled out through a side gate. A complaint has been lodged by the CWC.
 
 Later in the evening, TOI got information that a relative of Ganesan had spilled details of the children who were housed there. However, their whereabouts remain a mystery.
 
