NAGPUR: ‘To Parat Aalay’, a play staged by Kamgar Kalyan Mandal, Mahakali ward, Chandrapur, at the 64th Natya Mahotsav primary competition organized at Kamgar Kalyan Bhavan, Raje Raghuji Nagar, on Monday, had all the elements of suspense and thrill.

 It is a story of Taisaheb (Aarti Telang) and her spoiled younger bother Jaisingh (Vishal Dhok). Though belonging to the royal family, their assets are limited.   (Kunal Mandalik) is their family butler. One day, Jaisingh comes to the mansion with a necklace which he has stolen from his aunt with the help of his two friends. However, his friends are after him when they learn that he has ditched them. Jaisingh then thinks that it is no more safe to live in the mansion and escapes through a secret door with the help of Damukaka.
 
 On way to Bombay, Jaisingh dies in a car accident. But the necklace he was carrying with him was not to be seen near his body. Four years after the accident, Jaisingh returns to the palace all of a sudden, much to the suspicion of Taisaheb. She thinks that he is some other person who is after the stolen necklace. She then calls an inspector ( ) to resolve the issue. But Jaisingh has the proof to show that he is the real one. 
 
 Taisaheb then calls Damukaka to ascertain facts, but he gets confused by identical looks. However, fingerprints report reveals that he is Jaisingh. It was at this point that Taisaheb admits she had chased Jaisingh from where he had escaped. As she sees two persons outside the mansion, she thinks they are Jaisingh’s friends who are after him and fires at them. Unfortunately, one of them is Jaisingh who is killed unintentionally. It was here that the ‘new’ Jaisingh says he is not her brother but a CID officer hired to solve the case.
 
 The drama has many missing links. Why Taisaheb fires and how the inspector comes in the picture is not known. 
 
 The play was written by PL Mayekar while the stage was designed by Hima Sahare. Music was composed by Durgesh Wanjari while Hemant Guhe did lighting.   with Suresh Tumme designed the costumes. The play was directed by Vishal Dhok.
 
