PUNE: A sessions court on Friday sentenced a 26-year-old man to rigorous life imprisonment for throttling his live-in partner in their rented room at Janai Niwas in Mundhwa and stuffing her body in a suitcase, which was found dumped near   octroi post on June 29, 2014.

 The Yerawada police had circulated the deceased woman’s photo on WhatsApp, which later reached one of her employers, who identified her as   Kulkarni (20). The probe led to the arrest of her partner, Prashant Jivan Suryawanshi, on July 7, 2014 from Vadodara in Gujarat. Prashant’s suspicion that Anuradha was involved in another relationship led him to commit the murder, police said. (see graphic) 
 
 Additional sessions judge Mohammad Nasir M   held Prashant guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, but acquitted him of the charge under Section 201 (attempt to destroy evidence).
 
 “Considering his conduct at the time of incident and serious consequences thereof, he deserves to suffer rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs 5,000,” the judge ruled. 
 
 Additional public prosecutor Sunil Hande, who examined 15 witnesses in support of the prosecution case, told TOI, “The entire case was based on circumstantial evidence. The same entailed the prosecution to establish a complete chain of events leading to a conclusion that the accused alone could have committed the offence he was charged with.”
 
 Citing evidence on record, judge Saleem held that unhealthy relation between the accused and the deceased was the motive behind the murder. There was no serious challenge to the medical evidence relating to the cause of death. A key circumstance that the deceased was last seen with the accused was corroborated by the evidence recorded by the shopowner where Anuradha worked as a salesgirl and the landlord who had rented his room to the accused. 
 
 On the night of June 28, 2014 when the murder took place, Prashant had picked up Anuradha from the shop where she worked. The landlord had seen them in the room. The shopowner deposed that on reaching home, the deceased had called him and while they were talking, he heard cries of “Leave me, leave me” before her cellphone was switched off. 
 
 Other circumstances, such as frequent quarrels between the accused and the deceased and the former often beating her were corroborated by witnesses, including Anuradha’s elder sister and the three salesgirls who worked with her. Evidence recorded by the autorickshaw owner and the shopowner from whom Prashant purchased the suitcase, also proved crucial. The accused himself had led to the police to the shop where he purchased the bag and showed the place where he dumped the suitcase. 
 
 The court listed all these circumstances and observed, “The circumstances proved by the prosecution, put together, does give rise to a complete chain of events which can point to only direction that the accused is guilty of the commission of murder of deceased Anuradha.”
 
