KOCHI: “In IT there is no job security. I'm worried a lot about my family“: This is the note a Pune-based techie wrote before he jumped to his death on Wednesday .

  A man in his 60s says his daughter, who works with an IT firm, had suddenly gone silent. When she went for counseling, her parents found out that she had lost her job but “left for work“ every morning.
 
 The layoffs in the IT sec tor this year --from biggies like Wipro,  ,   and   to smaller companies -have caught thou sands of young professionals off-guard. Struggling to cope with the churn brought on by global economic factors and job reductions due to the industry's growing reliance on automation, young techies are turning to psychologists and online counseling platforms to deal with the rising anxiety and stress.
 
 YourDost, an online counselling and emotional wellness platform, launched a `Fired to Fired Up' session last month to deal with the surge in distress calls. It received some 260 calls on the toll-free number and 800 chats in just three days (June 29-July 1). Among the calls received during YourDost's 3day drive to address layoffs, 43% were from the IT industry .
 
 The maximum number of calls were from   (15%), followed by Maharashtra (12%) and Delhi (11%). Calls were also received from parts of the northeast, Odisha and  . YourDost co-founder and CEO   says, “The stigma of layoffs is the worst...Even those who have survived the layoff are worried if they will be the next to go.“
 
 Swati Premkumar (name changed) is in the latter cateogry. Having been in IT services for the past decade, she was quite confident of her career trajectory until she saw her colleagues being sent home. “When you see people around you being told to go, it hits you. Even if I get laid off, it won't affect me financially . The larger worry is answering parents, children and friends,“ she says. After six months of trying to deal with the stress on her own, she sought professional help.
 
 Ravi Kumar (name changed) had been working with a large IT firm for several years before his entire team was laid off. With a pregnant wife and family of four to look after, he is a very worried man. But even as he scouts for a job, Ku mar has turned to online platform ePsyclinic for help. “Selfesteem and self-worth are the most common issues they come to us with,“ says Shipra Dawar, founder of Iwill, powered by ePsyclinic.com. Until last month, the forum received 1-2 calls from former employees, now the number is 20-25, she says.
 
 Many companies, too, acknowledge the problems. Says Richard Lobo, executive vicepresident and head HR at Infosys, “The IT sector is going through structural challenges and anxiety around job losses is higher than what it usually is. When our employees (Infoscions) reach out for help, we have counselling sessions internally to help them cope with their concerns. We also have a peer-to-peer employee counselling programme called Samaritan to deal with work-related issues.“
 
 Online health platform Lybrate has seen a 30% rise in the number of IT professionals seeking advice since March.“Most complain about stress, anxiety , managing conflict and work-life balance. There have also been cases relating to depression arising out of performing better than peers yet getting less recognition,“ says  , CEO and founder of Lybrate. Arora's team of specialists advises meditation, short breaks and breathing exercises to alleviate stress.
 
 “We explained to our callers about the need to be equipped with investments, both monetary (savings) and intellectual. Intellectual investment is about continuous improvement at work and taking up courses for advancement in any vertical. There always must be a Plan B,“ says Aditya Sisodia of YourDost.
 
