ETAWAH: In a sign of renewed turf war in the ruling Yadav clan, former state SP chief   on Tuesday said that he might form a new party after the Assembly election results on March 11. His comment drew a sharp reaction from SP president and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.

 After filing nomination from   as SP candidate, Shivpal said, “Jao tum jeet jao, sarkar banao, hum ab party banayenge (You win and form the government, I will now make a new party).“
 
 Akhilesh, who was addressing a rally in Etah, hit back immediately. “Those who are trying to sabotage, will not be spared,“ he said without taking any name.
 
 Coming just two days after Mulayam disapproved of the alliance between his party and the Congress, Shivpal's statement could trigger another round of tiff in the party's first family. At a rally in Etawah, Shivpal minced no words in attacking Akhilesh.
 
 “Fifteen days ago I was in no mood to contest as a party candidate, and instead wanted to try my luck as an Independent. Even my supporters had asked me to contest as an Independent. Had that been the case, I would have been free. Badi kripa hai unki, ki unho ne mujhko ticket diya aur Form A and Form B bhi de diya (I am grateful that he has not only given me ticket but also Form A and Form B),“ he said, adding, “I filed my nomination today after Netaji insisted.“ Without hiding his angst over the way he has been side lined after Akhilesh took charge of the party , Shivpal reiterated his allegiance to Mulayam.
 
 “I will not desert Netaji (Mu layam Singh Yadav) till my last breath. I have told the chief minister that I am ready to accept everything except humiliation of Netaji,“ he said.
 
 “People, who have achieved great heights because of Netaji, have only behaved with him in a very disrespectful manner, which pains me,“ Shivpal told the gathering. “There are many ministers in the cabinet who only believe in getting themselves clicked on cameras. Whereas those who had worked hard, be it Ambika Chaudhary or Narad Rai and even I have been dumped,“ he said.
 
 “When Netaji's position as party chief was usurped, I had told the chief minister that I am ready to sacrifice everything, including the right of ticket distribution if Netaji was allowed to continue as national president of the party .“
 
 Shivpal expressed his displeasure over the allotment of tickets in which his loyalists were denied tickets. “I will campaign for those candidates, who have been denied tickets by the party and are contesting as Independents. I will campaign and garner support for them,“ he said amid slogans like “Shivpal tum sangharsh karo, hum tumhare saath hain (We are with you in the fight).“
 
 Like Mulayam, Shivpal, too, opposed the   alliance.“What was the situation of the Congress, it could not even win four seats, now it have been given 105 seats... where will our men go now?“ he asked.
 
