BHOPAL: In a show of strength marked by a  , bureaucrats and eminent personalities in Sehore district’s  , the birthplace of Madhya Pradesh chief minister  , the CM took a pledge to revive all the dying rivers of the state through campaigns like Narmada Seva Yatra even as the government is yet to tackle the problem of growing water hyacinth in areas from where the Yatra has passed. 

 As the Yatra reached Jait on Monday, it was joined by cabinet ministers, politicians, bureaucrats and commoners on the occasion of 100 days of the foot march. Chouhan announced that July 2 will be a historic day when more than 10 crore saplings would be planted on the banks of Narmada river on a stretch of 1,000 km.
 
 “We have seen rivers dying whether it was Kshipra in Ujjain or Betwa in Vidisha or Kalisindh or Parvati, and we know that Narmada can be saved by the government but only through public awareness. Preparations are on in full swing and we will plant 10 crore saplings in one go from Amarkantak to Alirajpur districts on both banks of the river on July 2,” said Chouhan.
 
 Spiritual saint and narrator Morari Bapu, who was present as a special guest, lauded the chief minister’s determination for the conservation of sacred river Narmada while asserting that this is a sacred ritual and not any election promise to woo voters.
 
 “After Narendra Modi, Shivraj is the second chief minister whom I have seen running the government as if he is performing a sacred ritual or ceremony. This is pure intention and will extract good results. I will also motivate youths and devotees during my discourses,” he said while comparing Chouhan with Modi, an unexpected complement for the CM.
 
 As the CM was addressing the Yatra, people in the surrounding areas of Jait, Shahganj and Bandrabhan situated on the banks of Narmada, drew attention to the problem of growing water hyacinth in the river that is spreading alarmingly.
 
 “The government seems to be busy with Narmada Seva Yatra which is an appreciable campaign, but the funds spent on meetings and community kitchen for 5,000 people could have been utilised on removing water hyacinth that has covered the entire river in the region. There seems to be no end to this problem as it will cost crores of rupees for cleaning the river,” said Manoj Singh Thakur, a farmer from Bandrabhan in Sehore district.
 
 In his address, chief minister talked of illegal tree felling in the nearby forest and village areas while mentioning about government’s commitment to divert sewage water, plant saplings and remove liquor shops situated near the river bank to check pollution. 
 
 “We have asked local women to form ‘Gulabi Gang’ and teach a lesson to addicts and alcoholics. Besides, we are removing liquor shops and encouraging people to go for de-addiction. I have told my officials not to care about revenue from alcohol sale,” he said.
 
 During the campaign, there was special mention of CM’s wife Sadhna Singh and son Kartikey, who have been active throughout the Yatra. Saints, actors, singers Anuradha Paudwal and Kailash Kher along with social workers too joined in. Leaders and party workers from nearby districts arrived in more than 500 buses at Jait village. The Yatra will proceed towards Banhori from Narayanpur on March 28.
 
