Nagpur: Just like the Regional Transport Office, its portals Sarathi 4.0 and Vahan 4.0 are working at a snail’s pace, say applicants visiting the department’s offices in the city.

 With a view to improve functioning of RTOs across the state, the transport commissioner’s office had introduced Sarathi 4.0 and Vahan 4.0 in January. Vahan serves works related to vehicle registration, tax, permits, enforcement, issue of challan etc, while Sarathi offers services like issuance of driving licence, conductor’s license, driving school license, fees etc
 
 “Apart from   glitches that appear daily, poor internet connectivity is a bane for routine operations much to the chagrin of citizens,” said a driving licence applicant Sheetal Mankar.
 
 TOI visited the RTOs of city, east and rural and found that paperwork related to vehicle registration, permits, choice numbers, vehicle information and RC books was getting affected due to technical problem in Vahan 4.0. Sarathi 4.0 portal is facing similar issues, said a clerk on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Even the citizens facilitation centres for filing online forms have been hit. Against Rs20 fee for a work, most of the CFCs are charging not less than Rs100, indicating a big nexus between the employees and touts.
 
 Vilas Bhalekar, working president of the Maharashtra Rajya Autorickshaw Sanyukt Samiti, said, “The main issue with the   offices — both city and east, is the internet connectivity. The speed is very slow and there are around 50 computers under use daily. Even after six months, both the   are encountering technical errors every day, which affects operations.” 
 
 Bhalekar added that a demand has been made for a high-speed internet service for the RTO and also to appoint a dedicated system administrator officer to resolve the technical errors.
 
 “Besides slow speed, the problem with both Vahan and Sarathi is that the website interface seems to have been developed by non-professional,” pointed out an RTO employee on condition of anonymity.
 
 Citing examples, he said many nationalized banks like State Bank of India are using both internet and intranet to provide uninterrupted online services. But the transport department is providing service through one of the leading government service providers.
 
 To a query, he admitted that ever since the upgraded software has been in use, the staffers are facing many problems. “Every time, some new error comes up which is compounded by connectivity issues. And, to top it all, people coming to get their work done get miffed and argue with us for the delays,” he said.
 
 The employee also revealed that the new system was introduced without making existing staffers technically sound. Besides, no technical support is being provided by our headquarters in Mumbai, he said.
 
 
