NEW DELHI: Czech carmaker   plans to ride on parent Volkswagen’s partnership with   for a bigger play in the compact vehicles segment. It is looking to make a comeback into the high-volume small car category, while driving in a mini-SUV and an entry-level sedan.

 The vehicles may hit the roads from 2019 and would be a culmination of the joint product strategy with Tata Motors. Skoda may target the mass segment with this new range, sources told TOI.
 
 The development stems from Volkswagen’s MoU with Tata Motors that was signed in March this year to explore a strategic alliance opportunity for joint product development. Skoda has been earmarked to lead the project for the   brands. Sources said Tata Motors’ advanced modular platform (AMP) could be one of the routes that could be explored for new products. The highly-flexible platform can produce a variety of vehicle types even as it offers a high degree of commonality of parts across product lines.
 
 Skoda has been working on a revamp of its Indian operations over the past few years. It looks to tackle issues such as poor service quality and falling customer confidence.
 
 Sudhir Rao, MD of the company, refused to speak about the specific product strategy but said the company is now preparing to boost its portfolio as it moves beyond “re-haul of operations”.
 
 “Service quality and customer experience at dealerships were critical elements for us, and something that required attention. We have worked tirelessly to fix issues around this area and are now set to move ahead with the product strategy,” Rao told TOI.
 
 The company had trimmed dealer strength from a little over 100 to around 65 to have a leaner, “but more effective”, network, Rao said. While the products with Tata Motors will be firmed up once the modalities of the joint working are finalsed by VW, Skoda is working on an independent plan to push volumes. The company ended 2016 with sales of 13,370 units compared to 15,457 units sold in the previous year.
 
