THANE: The last few hours of election campaigning in Thane proved hectic for the political parties and candidates who tried all possible means to score over their opponents and reach out to voters just in time. 

 Right from having early morning snacks and chai with voters to releasing manifestos, holding road shows and having online chats with residents on social networking sites, the last-minute campaigning on Sunday proved hectic for political parties. Few parties also hurriedly released their respective   before the scheduled campaigning time ended at 5pm with even the BJP holding a last minute workshop for its workers to understand the   process.
 
 Yuva Sena chief Aditya Thackeray also conducted a road show in Thane on Sunday afternoon covering almost all of old Thane areaswhile BJP leader Sanjay Ghadigaonkar uploaded videos on a social networking site recounting the work done by the party. Few independents were seen hiring auto rickshaws and campaigning in their respective pockets while others with limited resources and manpower took out padyatras in their respective areas meeting residents at homes and explaining their vision over a cup of chai. 
 
 The BJP conducted a small training session for its party workers explaining them the intricacies of the election process. “Keep a strict vigil and ensure every discrepancy however small is reported to the authorities,” urged party leaders at a conclave in panchpakhadi on Sunday. 
 
 The NCP also published a folder containing failures of Shiv Sena in TMC since the last five years on several fronts. MLA Jitendra Awhad alleged that Shiv Sena that was in power in Thane Corporation has done nothing for the city and not a single development project was brought by it for the city.
 
 Meanwhile, the vigilance cell of the election department said it has deployed adequate staff to keep vigil at the last minute campaigns and also if there are any instances of violation of poll code of conduct. 
 
 The BJP conducted a small training session for its party workers explaining them the intricacies of the election process, as many were still confused about the new four panel system being implemented this year and how to ensure minimal instances of mischief usually reported during election process. Party leaders urged to keep a strict vigil and ensure every discrepancy, however, small is reported to the authorities. 
 
 
