Kolkata: Officials of   sought a meeting with chief minister   to allay fears about nuclear energy that have frustrated its bid to set up a nuclear power plant in  , East Midnapore.

 “The second unit of Kudankulam nuclear plant in Tamil Nadu became commercially operational at 11am on Friday with four units to go. The same project (6 × 1000 MW by Russian firm Rosatom) is proposed at Haripur at an investment of Rs 100,000 crore,” said Anutosh Chakraborty, NCPIL additional chief engineer, Haripur. 
 
 Initially backed by the Left Front government in 2006, the project was put on the backburner after protests against land acquisition in Singur and Nandigram led by Banerjee. Though she has stuck to the stance since then, NPCIL officials are hopeful of convincing her otherwise if they get an audience with her for half-an-hour. That is due to two factors: firstly, it has already signed a deal for the first two reactors with the Russian firm and secondly, Haripur being the best of the three control sites, the two others being at Mithivirdi in Gujarat and Kovvada in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Amitava Gupta, a former employee of NPCIL who is now director of the School of Nuclear Studies & Application at  , said local opposition is not about safety but about livelihood security. “The bad handling of Singur led to a Chernobyl effect. Even the proposal of a chocolate factory here would have led to this ruckus. Concerns about livelihood need to be addressed,” he said.
 
 “There is a misconception about the fallout of radiation. We need to clear the air. We realise the fate of Haripur depends on the people’s representatives,” said Chakraborty, who is keeping the project alive through CSR activities and other initiatives like bird surveys. 
 
 While NPCIL conducts avian studies at all its plants, Haripur is the first and only proposed site where such a study was held for the second year. Since Haripur is a coastal plant, around 500 hectares or half the land of a conventional nuclear plant is required. This will mean a displacement of 425 people, most of them fishermen, according to a 2011 census.
 
 Regarding NPCIL’s move, minister Suvendu Adhikari said, “They may try to meet the CM if they want, but we will never allow a nuclear power plant at Haripur.” Adhikari was the face of the anti-nuclear power project at Haripur. 
 
 Debashis Shyamal, convenor of Haripur Paramanu Vidyut Prakalpa Pratirodh Andolon, too, said, “We will continue our fight against the project.”
 
