Bengaluru may boast of being the `IT Capital' or `Science Capital' of the country, but the city has a thriving market for   and   who claim powers and `skills' to inflict an evil eye on the prosperity of people, or even inflict mortal injury.And the clientele include, not just the lovelorn youths, but even corporate employees, race car drivers and those reeling under family and financial crises ­ all apparently a well-educated lot.

 The demand for black magic is evident from numerous people operating online who are contacted by clients through their individual portals and even social media platforms. They order black magic rituals to be performed on target individuals groups as per specific requirements, and they don't mind paying anywhere from a mere Rs 500 to even upwards of a lakh.
 
 There are also a couple of Kerala-based tantriks operating through their `agents' who facilitate initial pujas and then direct people to meet black magic experts in Kerala to perform more complex rituals ­ a sort of a package. The arrest of a 33-year-old woman from Gowripalaya in the city for allegedly instructing her clients to murder a little girl, aged just 10, to allow the black magic woman to perform black magic rituals with her body, has come as a shocker over the dark extremes that these self-proclaimed conduits of so-called supernatural powers indulge in.
 
 The woman, hailing from a seemingly normal lower-middleclass family, has five children, and is married to a man engaged in grillwork.
 
 “She used to operate from her (Gowripalya) residence in Bengaluru and was brought to Magadi where the murder and rituals took place. We are now probing whether she is involved in any other similar incidents in the past,“ said HL Nandish, circle inspector, Magadi, Ramanagar district.
 
 When Bangalore Mirror did a quick online check, contacting some of the listed black magicians in the city and asked for their services we realised it was a thriving industry, the returns oscillating from RS 500 to lakhs depending on the background of the client and the nature of the ritual required to be performed.
 
 A black magic expert in the city, who wanted to remain anonymous, claimed he has been into it for the last three decades.
 
 “There are different kinds of services we have. It all depends on what the client wants. We need basic details like date of birth and a picture and also details about the problem. We operate in houses and we have two of them, one is located in Indiranagar and another in Rajajinagar. We are open from morning 9am to 9pm.But if you don't want to come then you can WhatsApp us the details or send us a mail through our website,“ he said.
 
 Another black magic specialist from Banaswadi claimed he has been active in the city for the last 40 years, serving clients from corporate and political circles.
 
 He admitted that a majority of the clients come for performing Vashikaran kriya ­ enticing someone into doing things as required by the client.
 
 But he also claimed that often some clients come to him seeking total destruction or even death of their adversaries, and that he offers them alternate options wherein he still guarantees maximum suffering without loss of life.
 
 A car racer, who participates in Bengaluru drag fest, claimed he has been a victim of black magic as he believes someone has cast a spell on him to jinx his racing prospects.
 
 He claimed that in recent years he was constantly encountering bad luck on the tracks as his vehicle used to conk off 700 metres from the finishing line or develop some last-minute technical glitch. He said his friends have suggested him to meet a tantrik in Shivaji Nagar and he performed some rituals as instructed recently.
 
 “I paid Rs 10,000 and everything was fine about that. He did some rituals and prayer recitation and then I felt better after that.Now I am fine and looking forward to participating in the upcoming car races,“ he said.
 
