NEW DELHI: The unknown pencil portrait of Mahatma Gandhi drawn from life by artist   (1882-1942) and inscribed by Gandhi, (estimated at £8,000-12,000), was sold for £32,500 to Dr   from Mumbai at the Sotheby's London auction on July 11.

 "We are happy to announce that the rare portrait and letters relating to Mahatma Gandhi went under the hammer on July 11 in London where the Gandhi portrait was bought by Dr Cyrus Poonawalla for £32,500 as he wanted to bring this historic and rare work back to India," said a Sotheby's spokesperson.
 
 Excited on the purchase of the portrait, Dr Poonawalla maintained he was keen to bring back the historic work to India. “I am absolutely delighted to have acquired this beautiful signed image and to have the opportunity to bring a work of such historical value back to India. Mahatma Gandhi is one of the most respected and revered figures in the world and considered to be the father of our nation, and so to have such a rare and intimate depiction of him at work, and signed by the great man himself, is an incredible honour and an absolute pleasure," said Dr Poonawalla.
 
 While the portrait alone was auctioned for 32,500 pounds, the letters by Gandhi to Bose family were bought by another anonymous buyer.
 
 According to  , director of Sotheby’s books and manuscripts department, the Gandhi sketch was a rare portrayal of the political leader at work. "The sketch shows Gandhi writing with a look of intense concentration whilst seated on the floor, and is inscribed by him with the words “Truth is God / MK Gandhi / 4.12.’31.”
 
 Speaking to TOI from London, Heaton added that the Gandhi portrait is from the time when Gandhi was visiting London for the Round Table Conference in 1931 to discuss constitutional reforms in India. “The portrait was sketched live by the artist while Gandhi was writing a letter,” said Heaton.
 
 At the time of the portrait, Gandhi had stayed at Kingsley Hall, a community centre in London’s East End at the invitation of one of its founders,  , who had previously stayed in Gandhi’s ashram.
 
 This pencil portrait, which was inscribed by Gandhi the day before he left Kingsley Hall, was given to a local resident who was closely associated with the Hall throughout her life. It has remained in her family ever since.
 
 Apart from Gandhi’s portrait, the July 11 London sale of Sotheby’s also included a collection of unpublished handwritten letters by Gandhi addressed to the Bose family, a prominent Indian political dynasty at the time. “These are six letters in lots and are handwritten,” said Heaton.
 
 The most important letters are addressed to   and include key comments on the pivotal partition of Bengal in the months before his assassination, providing a vivid impression of the intense political pressures that Gandhi faced in his final months.
 
