TRICHY: The   (NRCB) in Trichy is all set to begin work on developing a wilt-resistant banana. 

 Accordingly, the centre has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with  , France to research on developing a banana variety or varieties not prone to the Fusarium wilt disease. 
 
 Regional representative of south and central Asia NK Krishnakumar and NRCB director S Uma exchanged the agreement on April 1 at NRCB, Trichy. The five-year-long project will be carried out at a cost of 2 crore. Bioversity International will fund the project 
 
 Following the launch of the project, India has joined 15 other countries across five continents to research on the development of banana cultivation across the world. 
 
 The project, titled 'breeding for improved bananas', will be carried out by scientists from NRCB, National Bureau of Plant   Resources (NBPGR), Kerala Agricultural University - Banana Research Station (BRS) and Indian Institute of Horticulture Research (IIHR) Bengaluru. 
 
 With wilt disease posing a serious threat to banana cultivation in India as well as several other countries,the need for developing a wilt-resistant variety was felt necessary even after scientists had developed solutions to tackle the disease.
 
 As far as India is concerned, the grand naine variety banana cultivation accounts for 60 % of the banana production. The rest of the varieties like poovan, Karpooravalli are also cultivated. Despite being the world's largest producer of bananas, India accounts for only 0.5% of exports. Trichy, once known for good production of banana, has also witnessed reduction in cultivation due to various reasons. 
 
 "Wilt disease affects almost all the varieties. The attack of the wilt disease will lead to stunted growth of the plant leading to the least production. Leaf spot disease is also equally dangerous. This project will help overcome this issue by developing a wilt-resistant banana," said V Kumar, principal scientist, horticulture, NRCB. 
 
 NRCB director Uma said that the outcome of the meeting held on April 1 will be discussed with other international partners from Brazil, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda and Malaysia in Uganda next month.
 
