NAGPUR: Though there is undoubted presence of leopards in  , for the first time a full-grown leopard that killed a calf on Thursday has been caught on   outside the forest.

 The camera traps were laid by   range forest officials after a leopard killed a 2-year-old calf around 3am on Thursday in the farm on Fetri-Mahurzari road. The farm is owned by Sanjay Dahiwade, Rajnagar.
 
 The camera traps clicked pictures of the leopard dragging the carcass and consuming meat. The leopard later quenched its thirst in a water structure and vanished.
 
 “We did not remove the half-eaten carcass. The carnivore again entered the farm in the wee hours of Friday jumping the six-feet-high concrete wall with additional barbed wire fencing of two feet. It again consumed the remaining meat of the carcass,” said Dahiwade.
 
 The leopard must be a resident of Gorewada and had ventured into the farm for prey. Till now, there were many reports of leopard presence in Gorewada but for first time, a picture has been captured. Earlier, on May 26 last year, a leopard had killed a wild boar on Gondwana nature trail. Prior to this, senior officials had sighted carcass of a deer on a tree inside Gorewada.
 
 Gorewada officials have sighted leopards and also recorded pugmarks near cages in rescue centre. This was also proved after the six-month-old leopard cub escaped on January 2 from the cage. It is suspected to have been with a female.
 
 Initially, Dahiwade suspected that the calf might have been killed by the leopard that escaped. However, officials deny it saying the cub is too young to hunt and it was only after seeing the pictures Dahiwade believed it was a big leopard.
 
 When contacted, Seminary Hills RFO VS Gangawane said, “We are closely monitoring the situation and two forest guards have been posted in the farm. Though the caretakers of the farm are panicked, we have told them that after consuming the entire carcass, the leopard will not turn up.”
 
 A couple of years ago, a leopard had killed two goats in Dahiwade’s farm. However, there have been reports about killing of goats, dogs and calves in villages surrounding Gorewada.
 
 “The Gorewada and territorial officials need to be on alert with man-animal conflict imminent in the area,” said wildlife experts.
 
 
