NASHIK: Industrialists here want the the Union government to reduce taxation in its Budget to be presented on February 1 to boost industrial growth. 

 The industries also want reduction in excise duty and extension to the   exemption limits, besides immediate implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Finance minister   will on February 1 present the   for the 2017-18 financial year.
 
 Mangesh Patankar, vice-president of the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (Nima), said, “GST is expected to be implemented within next six months, but the government needs to speed up its process. It should reduce taxations until GST comes into effect. The growth of the industrial sector has slowed to some extent due to demonetisation. Though it is a temporary effect, the government needs to take measures like reduce in taxes. Presently, the excise duty is around 14% and it should be reduced to 10%.” 
 
 He added, “Income Tax exemption limit for individuals is up to Rs 2.5 lakh, which needs to be increased up to Rs 5 lakh. Moreover, Income Tax rates, which are from 5-30%, need to be reduced in the range from 5-25%. The total Income Tax for corporate, including surcharge is around 33%. This should be brought down by at least 5%.” 
 
 “The Small and   (SMEs) is the sector the government needs to focus on majorly. The government never considers SMEs while taking measures for industrial growth. Large industries are considered during ‘Make in India’ and other such projects. There is a need to do things that will encourage and empower the SMEs financially. We expect the finance minister to announce some measures to encourage SMEs,” said, Sudhir Mutalik, chaiman of the Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) North Maharashtra zonal council.
 
 Ambad Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (AIMA) president Rajendra Ahire said, “Apart from reducing taxes, the government needs to introduce a separate budget for industrial infrastructure across the country. There should be provisions for various infrastructure facilities for the existing and new industrial estates. Moreover, the government has launched the Make in India campaign to boost manufacturing sector. But the presence of Nashik region in the project is negligible.”
 
