One of the most common surgeries performed in hospitals isn’t for the heart, hips or knees - it’s the   section. At least three out of every 10 babies born in Tamil Nadu are now delivered using this method. The state, where almost 99% of the children are born in a hospital, has the third largest number of c-section surgeries in the country, followed by Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, where more than half the children are surgically delivered.

 A day after Union minister for women and child development   pushed for the Union health ministry making it mandatory for hospitals to publicly declare the number of c-section surgeries done by them, officials in the state health department decided to circulate a questionnaire to hospitals asking them to submit data for a comprehensive c-section audit. The directorate of medical services has already asked hospitals to submit data on the number of pregnant women they see, number of deliveries and the sex of each newborn. By the end of March, the reporting system will go online for over 2000 hospitals across the state. "We are now planning to ask them to furnish the number of c-section they do. If the numbers are abnormal, we will demand an explanation. We don’t rule out the possibility of profiteering. Even a small percentage of needless surgeries is a serious public health concern," said director of public health Dr Kolandaisamy. 
 
 Nearly two-thirds of the deliveries in TN happen either in a primary health centre or a government hospital, where nearly one in four deliveries is surgical. The numbers double in private institutions. "Sometimes, the hospital a woman walks into plays a major role in deciding the mode of delivery," says Dr Kolandaisamy. For instance, in one of Chennai’s oldest fertility centres, GG Hospitals, doctors say more than 90% undergo c-section deliveries. The reason is simple – the baby is too precious to lose after months of fertility treatment. "Most of the mothers who come to us are above 35. They have complicated pregnancies with conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. We ensure most women complete their term but it may be too risky to wait for a normal delivery. But, we do have normal deliveries too," said senior gynaecologist Dr Priya Selvaraj 
 
 Doctors say a part of the blame is on the patients, who refuse "push" in labour rooms. "Sometimes, a woman’s family insists on having a baby at a particular time on a particular day. In that case we mention it as patient’s choice and go ahead with it," said senior consultant gynaecologist Dr Nazira Sadique of Cloud Nine. 
 
 She said there wasn’t much benefit for doctors or hospitals in c-section deliveries because in most large private hospitals and chains the cost of delivery — surgical or normal — is the same. 
 
 Most doctors say the World Health Organisation’s recommendation of 15% caesarean cases could be very low in India which has a high incidence of anaemia, but doubt if one in two women need to go under the knife to deliver. In India, according to data provided by National Rural Health Mission, the rate of c-section is 10%. "TN is one of the few states where almost all deliveries happen in hospitals. We don’t know yet if the increase is justified but it did bring down mortality rates in both mother and child," said a senior health department official. 
 
 Officials say surgery rates for low-risk deliveries among state hospitals vary dramatically and that in most hospitals the rates are above the national average. Perambalur district achieved an almost maternal mortality rate (MMR) that was less than half the state’s average. If extrapolated for 100,000 deliveries, Perambalur’s MMR in 2015 was 10, but more than 50% of the women underwent a c-section.
 
 Doctors in the district said at least 30% of women had very narrow pelvic passage due to which c-section was unavoidable in many. 
 
 In the last ten years, when the number of c-sections in the state increased by nearly 14%, the infant mortality rate dropped from 30 per 1000 live   in 2005-2006 to 21 per 1000 in 10 years. "Our internal reports show that we are further down to 19 now. The maternal mortality is also 60 per 100,000 deliveries. Sometimes, risk in c-sections can be handled than an unexpected complication in vaginal deliveries," Dr Kolandaisamy said.
 
