BIJNOR:   continues to hound   in the district despite the fact that sugar mills have   in their respective bank accounts. Farmers say they have been unable to withdraw the money as   even two months after demonetisation was announced.
 
  Angry at not being able to withdraw their money, a large number of farmer leaders are squarely blaming BJP for the crisis.
  
  Farmers had hoped to earn better returns on their crops last year bouyed by an upward swing in the market for sugar. In fact, for the same reason, most of the sugar mills paid cane dues on time.
  
  According to the data provided by cane department, there are nine sugar mills in the district. Most of the mills have been paying cane dues on time. Officials confirmed that a sum of Rs 800 crore had been transferred into the bank accounts of the farmers.
  
  Talking with TOI over this issue, state secretary of   Rajendra Singh said, “The central govt has rattled the farmers by enforcing demonetisation. In this season, farmers had to face an economic crisis due cash crunch. Owing to this, they could not sow the wheat crop on time.”
  
  Singh added, “Two months have passed but the situation remains the same. Most of the rural banks are providing only Rs 1,000 or Rs 2000 cash a day. To withdraw this small amount, some banks are making farmers wait for a day.
  
  Many farmers also complained that they had to stand in long queues for cash rather than tend to their crops. Taking a dig at BJP-led central govt, the BKU leader said, “The central govt has done nothing for farmers. We never opposed demonetisation. We also want that black money should be unearthed but govt should have made proper arrangements to deal with cash crunch problems. If the situation is not improved, farmers will go against BJP in the assembly polls. We will teach a lesson to BJP.”
  
  When TOI contacted district cane officer OP Singh, he said, “Around Rs 800 crore have been deposited in the farmers’ bank accounts. I have written a letter to the lead bank to pay special attention to rural banks. Banks are also trying to resolve the problem of farmers.”
  
  Talking with TOI, Bijnor BJP MP Bhartendra Singh said, “To unearth the black money and stop the corruption, central govt had demonetized the old big currency and the results are fantastic. The public of India supports the move of demonetisation wholeheartedly despite faving some economic hardships. The people want to root out the corruption from India. As a result BJP performed well in the recently held ‘sthaniya nikaye chunav’ in Chandigarh and Mumbai. People are with BJP and our party will get a majority in the upcoming polls at UP.”
