MUMBAI: The municipal commissioner has ordered a departmental inquiry against civic officers for failing to inform a lower court about an illegal building in Memonwada in south Mumbai.

 The  , which is hearing the case pertaining to a 10-storey building, was last week informed by the BMC’s counsel about the commissioner’s decision. The petition was filed by   against the BMC, the landlord and developer of   Mansion located at 77, Memonwada Road in Mandvi. It sought demolition of the illegal building. The developers of Minara Mansion are Dawood Ebrahim Lakdawala, Yunus Umretiya and  .
 
 The petitioner said the building was a ground-plus-four-storey structure. The builder demolished the structure and constructed a new building consisting of ground-plus 10 floors, including an attic, without obtaining prior permission from the municipal corporation. The BMC demolished the unauthorized structure on January 31, 2015 and made the building uninhabitable.
 
 The developer reconstructed the building without prior permission and the BMC again demolished it on February 26, 2015. The developer continued with reconstruction work even after the second demolition, the high court was told. Hence, the corporation issued a notice dated March 16, 2015, and a demolition order dated March 30, 2015. The developer challenged the stop work order before the civil court in Mumbai and obtained a status quo order. 
 
  told the high court that the developer completed the construction of the ninth and 10th floors while the status quo order was in operation. The BMC counsel too confirmed that the building was twice demolished and rebuilt. She stated that taking advantage of the status quo order from the lower court, the developer reconstructed the ninth and 10th floors. The builder, on the other hand, claimed that the building’s sanction plan of 1958 shows the structure had eight floors. His advocate said the building was not constructed or reconstructed, but only repaired.
 
 However, both the petitioner and the BMC disputed the authenticity of the 1958 plan and said that the original plan was only for ground-plus-four floors.
 
 Last October, the HC observed that the BMC counsel had not informed the city civil court that the building was twice demolished and the developer had reconstructed it without permission. “Though the Corporation has claimed that the developer had continued with construction while the status quo order was in operation, records of the civil court do not indicate that the said fact was brought to the notice of the civil court,” said the high court.
 
 “The conduct of the corporation in not bringing the relevant facts to the notice of the court, delay in filing the reply and not taking any steps to vacate the status quo order prima facie indicates that the officers of the corporation were responsible for protecting the unauthorized construction,” it said.
 
 The high court directed the civic chief or any officer not below the rank of additional commissioner to fix responsibility and take action against the erring officers.
 
 
