Those who are entering Class IX this year, have a new challenge in store. The Tamil Nadu government has planned to introduce Board Examinations for Class XI from 2018. Hereafter, a student’s score in Class XI board exam mark sheet will carry   in the   mark sheet. The move is considered an attempt to improve the performance of students in competitive exams. Here’s what Coimbatoreans have to say about it.

 
 
 I think the move will add humungous pressure on students. Students spend studying hard for 10th and 12th standard board examinations and it is only during the 11th standard that they get a breather. But, with this move, they will be constantly under pressure for three years. It increases the responsibility of the parents as well as they have to be watchful about their child’s preparation for the exams and their health. I think it’s an unnecessary burden on students.
 
 
 
 I understand that the rule is aimed at improving the standard of students preparing and appearing for competitive exams. But for the move to reap benefits, the syllabus has to change. We have been following the same syllabus for 12 years and it’s time we moved ahead with times. Many also believe that this will curb rote learning. But, we at government schools do not encourage rote learning and hence, the students passing out of our schools are well-versed in their subjects. The only drawback is that they have studied in Tamil medium. With the new rule in place, teachers will have to concentrate on 11th and 12th in equal measure and it will surely add to our existing workload.
 
 
 
 I think this will ease the burden on us in 12th standard as we would have already begun the preparations in 11th. It will help us fare better in competitive exams as well as the standards would have improved. But, schools will definitely have to change their coaching style once the rule comes into place.
 
 
 Three years of successive board exams is sure to take a toll on the students. Students preparing for 10th and 12th tend to push themselves to the brink in the last four months and parents struggle in equal measure, too. With 11th standard too joining the competition, it’s going to be a strenuous affair for everyone. Students should start preparing for the exams from the beginning of 11tH standard instead of piling it up for the last few months. If the rule is to be implemented in 2018, it would be advisable to provide educational counselling for all students and parents in their schools by the end of 10th standard. Parents should let their children pick the subject of their choice. The other options would be to give it a few years’ time before the move is implemented so that parents and teachers get adequate time to mould their wards or gradually prepare them as they move up the ladder in 5th standard and 8th before they move to higher secondary.
 
 
 My parents have been dropping me early in the morning at the tuition centre and for special classes all this year. For parents, it’s going to be a tough time for three years. I am awaiting the results of 10th standards and hence, won’t have to face the 11th Boards. But, my younger brother will soon be part of the new system, once its implemented. It’s going to be quite tough for him. He has to thoroughly work for three back-to-back years and has to adopt a new method of preparation. But, at the same time, I believe that the move will improve the standard of education in the long run as students will take their studies seriously.
 
  
 
