Navi Mumbai: The   has arrested two fraudsters, who posed as an operations manager and accounts manager of Airtel and duped a Turbhe developer by offering him a VIP mobile number, which had the same digit for all the 10 numbers, for Rs 4.25 lakhs.

 The Police arrested Sanjay Prajapati, whose real name is Vishal Goswami (24) and Narendra Khushwaha, whose real name is Abhishek Updhyay (22), both are residents of Mira Road east. 
 
 Police Inspector Praful Bhingarde said, "The duo youth were arrested from Malad, after a trap was laid for them on February 28, while accepting the remaining sum of Rs 2.5 lakhs from the complainant through an Angadia. The duo was working for a   but after the call centre shut, the duo misused their talent to indulge in crime."
 
 Bhingarde further said, "The duo used a fake identity as Prajapati and Khushwaha and contacted developer Sachin Patil(40), a resident of Turbhe village. The duo even created a fake Facebook account and shared photographs of their fake identity cards, which stated that they were employees of Airtel, through WhatsApp. As Patil believed that they were the operations manager and accounts officer of Airtel, he agreed to pay them Rs 4.5 lakhs for mobile number with the same digits that is 999999999. Patil paid them a partial sum of Rs 2 lakhs by transferring the amount to a bank account which was traced to Jaipur. However, even the bank account was opened using fake identity and fake address."
 
 Bhingarde further said, "The duo had stopped communicating with Patil after receiving Rs 2 lakhs from him. Hence, Patil realized that he was cheated and hence lodged a complaint with the APMC police. After a week of lodging police complaint, Patil managed to get in touch with the two youths and agreed to pay additional amount for the VIP number. The accused told Patil to pay Rs 2.5 lakhs through an Angadia. Hence, the cops first detained the Angadia and through him trapped the duo accused youth in Malad when they arrived to collect the cash from the Angadia."
 
 Bhingarde added, "The duo may have cheated several persons using the same modus operandi of offering to sell them VIP mobile number having the same digits. For each VIP number they have accepted around Rs 5 to 8 lakhs. The racket will probably run into crores of rupees. It is being probed whether they have links with the fake call centre racket in Mira Road which was busted by Thane crime branch."
 
