MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act   and sentenced the 70-year-old husband of a creche owner in Parel on Wednesday to seven years' imprisonment for   the eight-year-old daughter of a banker and a cop. 

 The accused, Ajit Sawant, a real estate agent, had assaulted the child repeatedly. The court said the sentence was appropriate "keeping in view the act of the accused wherein he was supposed to take care of the girls who were kept in the creche being run by his wife... and keeping in view his act of taking advantage of the child who was in his care and also to prevent him from committing a similar offence as well as to send a message to society that such offences are taken to task and are not spared." 
 
 The court also ordered Sawant to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000, failing which he would have to undergo another year in jail. 
 
 "The act of the accused would leave a permanent scar on the psyche of the girl, which will never be compensated in terms of money and it cannot be washed away completely. However, to make good of the loss, injury and trauma undergone by the victim, it would be just and proper to award the compensation," the court said.
 
 The court considered the testimony of the child, her immediate reporting of the assault to her mother and medical evidence in the form of injuries to her private parts, to nail the accused. "There is no reason to disbelieve this evidence. There was no enmity between the victim girl's parents and the accused. All these facts together go to show that the accused had committed penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim girl," the court observed. 
 
 In her October 27, 2013, complaint, the child's mother had said that since both her husband, a cop, and she worked from morning till evening, their daughters were in the care of the creche. The children were enrolled in the creche since July 2013. She said on October 26, 2013, her husband picked up the children from the creche at 4pm while she returned from work at 8 pm. The child told her not to drop the sisters at the creche on Saturdays.
 
 When the mother asked her for the reason, she cried and revealed that "baba" (Sawant) used to touch her inappropriately when he was home on Saturdays. The child further said that when she questioned Sawant on why he behaved in such a manner, he told her that he could act as he wished. A complaint was immediately registered and the accused was arrested. 
 
 Sawant pleaded not guilty to the charges. He denied the allegations and said that no other parent had ever complained in the 15 years they had run the creche. Sawant further claimed that owing to the nature of his job, he was never home.
 
 
