GHAZIABAD: The police on Friday seized 16 boxes of liquor from the office of Congress candidate from Sahibabad constituency,  , in Nyay Khand-1, Indirapuram.

 According to police, bottles of McDowell’s No.1 costing nearly Rs 1 lakh, stored in 13 open boxes and three closed boxes, were seized from the office of Sharma. “We had conducted a raid in all the offices of BSP, BJP, SP and Congress but liquor was found in large quantities only in Amarpal Sharma’s office. We are further investigating the matter,” said Salmantaj Patil, SP (City), Ghaziabad.
 
 An FIR under Section 60 of Excise Act (persons to keep excisable goods safely etc) and Section 171 G (false statement in connection with an election) has been registered against Amarpal Sharma at Indirapuram police station. “We have registered an FIR even though it is a bailable offence. He will receive a notice for the same soon,” said Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Indirapuram police station.
 
 However, Sharma said liqour bottles were seized from an adjacent plot. “I had no idea that something like this has happened. I was on the field during that time. The SP (city) came to my office and he did not find any liquor until he checked the adjacent plot, where a village man has constructed a few rooms on rent. They seized the liquor from there and blamed me for it. They have not even arrested anyone so far,” said Sharma.
 
 Expressing similar sentiments, Harender Kasana, district president, Congress said: “This is a BJP conspiracy against us because no one among us can do something like this. They might have come and kept liquor bottles in our office. People from RSS can do anything.”
 
 However, taking a dig on Sharma, district BJP president Ajay Sharma said: “Liquor has been found in his own office and he is blaming us? Actually, he knows that he is finished in the polls. He is no longer our rival because everyone knows that BSP’s Jallal-ud-din Siddiqui is number two.”
 
 “This is a clear violation of model code of conduct and cannot be excused even though I am still awaiting a detailed report on this matter. Liquor is banned and storing it is completely prohibited,” said sub-divisional magistrate Preety Jaiswal.
 
 
