JAIPUR: The fate of Rajasthan University’s vice chancellor   depends on the state government and the governor house after Rajasthan High Court’s sharp criticism over Singhal’s appointment. Singhal was appointed by the chancellor (governor) with consent from the state government and after getting in-principle approval from   despite his academic shortcomings. The high court has deferred the hearing on a petition challenging the appointment of Singhal till January 9. 

 Singhal was the unanimous choice of the four-member search committee—one member each appointed by the governor house, state government, UGC and university syndicate. The onus of appointing him for the top post lies with all the stakeholders who are responsible for ensuring that the shortlisted candidate meets the eligibility criteria. The issue of Singhal falling short of the eligibility criteria had raised a storm since the day of his appointment.
 
 Singhal is neither a PhD holder nor has ten years’ teaching experience as a professor, as per the latest guidelines of UGC for the appointment of V-C. These points were raised by teacher bodies and Congress but the state and governor paid no heed.
 
 Singhal has held different positions in teachers’ unions affiliated with the RSS which made him the first choice of RSS state leaders. It left the governor and state government with no choice but to agree to Singhal’s appointment. He is due to retire in March 2017.
 
 “The state and governor house are in a fix. They have two options: they may ask the V-C to submit his resignation but it would mean accepting that they have flouted the rules set for the appointment. Second, they may appeal before the higher court to defend their move,” said a source. 
 
 It is important to note that high court has not pronounced any order in the case yet but the oral submission has set the tone for the judgement. 
 
 Congress spokesperson Pratap Singh Khachariyawas has demanded an apology from governor   and state government for appointment of an inefficient person on the top post. He also claimed the credit for raising the issue of wrong appointment of Singhal. “I had submitted the documents related to wrong appointment of Singhal to the governor and the state government but they paid no heed. But court’s approval of our claim came as a major embarrassment for the state,” said Khachariyawas. 
 
 
