Trichy: Even though the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital ( ) here has laboratories equipped to carry out medical tests, for the last several months patients coming here have been turned away owing to ‘lack of kits’ at government centre.

 This has left patients with no option other than going back home without diagnosis or approach private labs.
 
 The hospital has three labs – pathology, biochemistry functioning inside the hospital premises and microbiology at the KAP Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC) attached to the hospital. 
 
 Tests for diagnosing thyroid function were not available at the biochemistry lab functioning inside the hospital for several months now from 2016. 
 
 Several doctors working at the hospital said that they did not get results of tests relating to thyroid prescribed by them in the past six months from the labs at the college. “None of the patients referred to the lab here for the thyroid tests returned with the result of the test as they were turned down by them citing lack of kits for the test,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. 
 
 One kit was used for 90 tests. The lab turned down around 20 such patients every day for the past few months. Thyroid function tests (TFT) including T3, T4, TSH and Free T4 are done to measure the functioning of the thyroid gland.
 
 Unavailability of the test, all the poor patients were forced to go to private labs and cough up from Rs300 to Rs500. As most of them could not afford it, they returned without proper diagnosis.
 
 “If the test is not done here, I have no other option because can’t afford to do it in private labs,” said A Rani, a patient, from a village in  . 
 
 The issue is not restricted to only thyroid tests, but unavailability of necessary kits also prevented the microbiology lab at the college to perform C-reactive protein (CRP) blood test only for pediatric patients admitted here.   test is meant for identifying the inflammation or infection in the body. Rheumatoid factor test was also not done for few months. This test is to detect the level of rheumatoid factor which causes rheumatoid arthritis. 
 
 CRP and Rheumatoid factor test were also prescribed by several doctors in the hospital for outpatients and inpatients.
 
 When the issue was brought to the notice of the dean of  , she assured of regularising the tests. “The supplier of the kits has stopped the supply a few months back. Steps are on to make the supply regular. On the other hand, the doctors are advised to prescribe tests for necessary cases only,” Dr Lilly told TOI on Thursday.
 
 
