NEW DELHI: The Khadi and Village Industries Commission’s decision to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph in its latest diaries and calendars snowballed into a political controversy with the opposition parties led by the   vociferously criticising the move.

 The angry protests came as the government and KVIC defended the decision to use Modi’s photograph and said that there was no rule mandating the use of Mahatma Gandhi’s picture even though he was “the soul and essence of the khadi movement”.
 
 “In the photograph in the inner page of the diary of the PM, the bust of Mahatma Gandhi is displayed prominently behind the PM’s photograph, symbolising the source of our inspiration. The quotes of Mahatma Gandhi have also been printed on different pages of the diary. Almost all photographs within the diary contain the quotes of Mahatma Gandhiji. ‘Charkha’, which was the potent weapon of Mahatma Gandhi, is also prominently displayed on the first page of the diary. On the calendar of 2017 also the quotes of Mahatma Gandhiji find centre place in each of the pages of the calendar,” KVIC said.
 
 The statement came as Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi described the decision as “the Mangalyaan effect” while tagging a news report on Mahatma Gandhi being “ejected”.
 
 The BJP, however, said the opposition was raking up an unnecessary issue.
 
 Criticising the use of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph in the latest diaries and calendars of Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said, “…it shows the extent to which obsessive selflove, and self-promotion can go… He has now tried to become a Gandhi replacement – Mahatma Gandhi replacement, by evicting Mahatma Gandhi from all the stationery published by the Khadi Sansthan and there is no other symbol more associated with promotion or establishment of khadiwear than Mahatma Gandhi.”
 
 KVIC issued a statement saying that Gandhi’s pictures were not used in the past too, pointing to calendars and diaries printed in 1996, 2002, 2005, 2011, 2013 and 2016. The photographs used in those years were, however, generic pictures of looms and fabric.
 
 West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee also hit out at the government and KVIC. “The great symbol of ‘charkha’ (wheel) and Mahatma Gandhi now gets replaced by Modibabu. In the calendar and diary of KVIC 2017,   replaced Mahatma Gandhiji. Gandhiji is the Father of the Nation. Modiji what???” she tweeted.
 
 The BJP played down the row. “Controversy over Prime Minister’s photos on calendars and diaries of the Khadi Board are unwarranted and reflects the opposition’s bankruptcy of issues against the government,” said party spokesperson Shrikant Sharma.
 
 Maintaining that the PM’s picture showed his commitment towards khadi, KVIC said Modi’s efforts at promoting khadi had pushed up sales by 34% in 2015-16.
 
 
