Mumbai: The fast growing defence industry, which was opened for private sector participation two years ago, will be the main focus area for the Anil Ambani-run  . The company plans to emerge as a leading manufacturer and supplier of advanced weapon platforms and military hardware to cater to the requirements of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, its chairman told analysts.

 Ambani said the value of opportunities in this segment for private sector players is worth about Rs 1 lakh crore per year. The company’s current order book is at Rs 5,700 crore, to be executed by fiscal 2021. He told analysts that the group’s entry into defence sector was being driven by the government’s ‘Make in India’ and ‘Skill India’ initiatives. This was the first analyst meet that the company hosted to spell out its ambitions in the defence sector. 
 
 The   management wants to look at defence as the new growth area and it will be eyeing opportunities from the Army and Air Force under its 15 subsidiaries and three joint ventures with foreign defence majors, analysts said. For orders from the Navy, it will use the recently acquired Reliance Defence & Engineering (formerly Pipavav Defence). In the last two years, the company has built its capabilities and has also gone for technology tie-ups in the sector. It now expects the tendering and order inflows to start from the next fiscal, top officials said.
 
 Recently, group arm Reliance Defence won a contract from the US Navy for repair and alternation services for about 100 ships, which are part of the seventh fleet that operate in the Indian Ocean. 
 
 Currently, India is the largest buyer of defence equipment, accounting for about 14% of the global defence imports. In terms of value, about 70% of its defence requirement is met through imports, which opens up opportunities for domestic manufacturing for substitution.
 
 Ambani also said there were offset obligations worth about Rs 70,000 crore for foreign suppliers to the Indian defence. Offset obligation means foreign manufacturers that own orders from the Indian government have to produce part of their whole order in India. And government policies allow foreign defence manufacturers to own only up to 49% in Indian joint ventures. These offset obligations are yet to be executed, which is a big playing field for Indian private sector, Ambani told analysts. 
 
 “In the years to come, defence will emerge as the largest business of Reliance Infrastructure. Contrary to the general perception, defence is not a capital-intensive business. It has medium to light capital intensity,” Ambani told the analysts, according to a news agency. 
 
 In Tuesday’s flat market, Reliance Infra stock on   closed a marginal 0.2% higher at Rs 567.
 
 
