PUNE: The bliss of falling in love should never be marred by the trauma of falling for a scam. This situation is exactly what cybercrime experts want everyone to be wary of this Valentine’s Day. 

 According to them, this is the perfect time for hackers and cyber criminals to make the most of the occasion. They say users must beware of Valentine’s Day-centric applications and other online frauds where users can be at a risk of becoming a victims of stalking, harassment, identity theft, webcam blackmail and even phishing scams.
 
 Sandip Gadiya, cybercrime investigation expert said that crimes on social networking sites are quite rampant during this period each year.
 
 “Photos could be morphed to harass the user or to defame him or her. Other fraudulent activities connected to matrimonial sites, such as fake profiles and seducing women for money are also being witnessed. Phishing activity is also widespread, when users are prompted to click on a pop-up to check their ‘love score,’ many times this innocent click leads to their email accounts being hacked. A girl’s phone number can be circulated to defame her, apart from spreading rumours about fake relationships,” said Gadiya.
 
 Cybercrime expert Kirtar Oza said users may get unsolicited emails with flirtatious invitations, attractive travel packages, discounts on gifts (like heart shaped jewellery). “Once the user clicks the links in the email, they are redirected to a phishing site that gathers personal information,” said Oza.
 
 Cybercrime investigator Ashay Rege said, “The busiest dating season runs from December end to mid-February with millions of users registering on dating platforms. Cases of identity theft, data breaches, card frauds, phishing, spamming attacks via e-cards promising gifts, romantic getaways or via social engineering over the phone, are seen more prominently. People need to be alert and have a 'think before you click' attitude. The hardcore romantics just need to remember that even roses have thorns.”
 
 Experts from Norton by   said every February, users— both single and couples— tend to increase their downloads of Valentine’s Day-centric apps. “These apps vary in the form Valentine's Day-themed content, horoscope compatibility tests, greetings and games. While appearing like a fun novelty for the occasion, our research found that these apps are four to five times more likely to be uninstalled within a month. Downloading them offers opportunity to cybercriminals looking to leverage user interest towards related offerings,” said an expert from Norton.
 
 Researchers from Norton also found that 64% of women using online dating apps have experienced a security related problem as opposed to 54% men.
 
 Kaspersky Lab experts said that a scamster may also contact a user via social channels and claim having common interest or a mutual connection, “If one posts a lot of pictures and has not updated privacy settings, it is easy guesswork for cybercriminals. If one receives such a claim, they should never add that person as a friend. Also, update your privacy settings to share with only those you know,” said a Kaspersky Lab expert.
 
