KOLHAPUR: Several activists from the city want the tax authorities to scrutinise and audit the available stock to ensure that traders revise the MRP after the implementation of   ( ). 

 The consumer activists claim that the forum receives plenty of complaints regarding overcharging of goods by traders, thus not passing the benefit of tax reduction on some of the items to the consumers.
 
 Arun Yadav, president of District Consumer Welfare Forum said, “The traders are selling the goods which were procured before the roll out of GST . The goods are sold by adding GST, which is more than the earlier tax rate. We are going to meet the state consumer minister Girish Bapat next week and demand that the government audit the stock available with the traders and ensure that the consumers are not overcharged. We also want the benefit of the cut in the tax rates under GST to be passed on to the consumers.”
 
 The goods and services, such as food in the restaurants, items for personal care, author parts, electronic parts, aerated drinks, tuition fees and packed agriculture products have become costlier since the GST has come into effect. The items such as unpacked food grains, vegetables, fruits, salt, cutlery and footwear have become cheaper. The traders are imposing old rates on goods that have become cheaper under GST.
 
 As per the government’s directives, the manufacturers or sellers should put a sticker with the updated MRP rates above which the product cannot be sold. The guidelines states that the seller will be fined up to Rs 10,000 if the benefit of the tax reduced is not passed on to the consumers. “The government should ask the weight and measurement department to carry out random sampling of the goods sold in the district and book the traders committing such offence,” said Yadav.
 
 Sadanand Korgaonkar, president of district traders forum said, “Already we have declared the stock details to the government and there is no need for separate auditing. We will not get the tax benefit, if the stocks are not declared. As far as labelling with revised MRP is concerned, it is a difficult task for the traders. We have demanded that the traders be allowed to sell the stock items with previous tax rates.”
 
