MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has directed a US-based   to bring her 15-year-old   to India so that he can spend 10 days of his vacation with her estranged husband. A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Anuja Prabhudessai ordered that the couple’s son would stay from August 10-19 with his father in Pune. The bench said notice should be issued to the   along with a copy of the order “calling upon her to remain present in court along with her minor son on August 7”. The court also told the Union ministry of law and justice to take necessary steps. 

 “We direct the department of law and justice to take up the matter with the central authority of the North Carolina state, US, in terms of the treaty signed on October 17, 2001 (under the Hague Convention) between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of India on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. The central authority be requested to execute this order,” the judges said.
 
 The court observed said that in many matters where directions are given to countries, there was no mechanism to check its progress. The HC directed the Union government to nominate nodal officers in the home and law ministries for progress made in serving notices issued by courts in India. 
 
 In the present case the couple had married in London in 1999 and then again as per Hindu Vedic rites, when they came back to India in 2000. Their son was born in 2002 in North Carolina, where the couple was then based. Within months of his birth, the man got his son to India to perform a religious ceremony. He claimed he could not go back to the US due to criminal proceedings initiated by his wife, who had also obtained an ex parte divorce order. 
 
 Five years later, she came to India and filed a habeas corpus petition in the Gujarat high court seeking custody of their son. The Gujarat HC ordered the man to hand over custody of their son to his wife. She took the son back to the US and his plea for permanent custody of their son was rejected by courts in Navsari and the Pune family court. 
 
 Last year, in an application filed by the man, the HC ordered that temporary custody of the son for 10 days should be handed over to the father so they could spend the vacation together. The HC noted that the orders were not implemented. The man urged the court to modify the order as his son will have his next vacation in July-August. 
 
