VADODARA/ANAND: After graduating from the fine arts college in  , Honi Patel could not pursue her passion for painting. 

 Most of her time was dedicated to raising her kids based in Boston, the United States and helping her husband based in Malawi, Africa. 
 
 But  , this NRI has started a fresh journey in the world of art. Honi recently participated in two successful exhibitions including one titled ‘Lake of stars’. One exhibition was held at   in Africa and another in education town Vallabh Vidyanagar in Anand district - the first one since she graduated in 1989. 
 
 Born in Vadodara, Honi, who was brought up in Vallabh Vidyanagar, had completed her studies in 1989 from the fine arts college which is now known as Ipcowala Santram College of Fine Arts. Just a year after she completed her studies, she got married in 1990. 
 
 “Since then I was busy raising my two lovely children- 23-year-old daughter and 20-year-old son. But it was my father who encouraged me to start afresh,” said Honi, who even before her graduation, had won several awards, including that at the Sixth All India Child Painters Contest, Commonwealth Institute Art Exhibition, Kunniakirsa Commission, Finland, Maha Kaushal Kala Parishad, Raipur and Shankar’s International Children’s competitions. 
 
 “Unfortunately, when my father   was alive I could not fulfill his wish to hold an art exhibition. When I organized this one at Vidyanagar I dedicated it to the memory of my late father,” said Honi, whose exhibition titled ‘My colours’ ended on Sunday. 
 
 The exhibition, which displayed 25 of her works using mix media (oil and acrylic), was inaugurated by chairman and managing director of  . “As a child I had grown up watching my mother and uncle working on sculptures which had inspired me a lot,” said Honi, whose sculptor mother Ranjana Patel, had graduated from M S University’s Faculty of Fine Arts while her uncle is renowned sculptor and Padma Shri recipient Kanti Patel. 
 
 “While they inspired me, it was my dad who was my real backbone and I will continue fulfilling his last wish,” said Honi.
 
