VADODARA: A total of 232 schools of seven districts falling in   have submitted affidavits declaring that the fees that they are charging are below the prescribed upper limits fixed by the state government under the   ( ) Act 2017. 

 These 232 schools include 83 of Vadodara city and district, 86 of Dahod, 25 of Mahisagar and 38 from Kheda districts. Ironically, none of the schools from three districts including Anand, Panchmahals and Chhota Udepur have made any declaration regarding the fees that they charge so far. 
 
 The upper limit of fees that private schools can charge has been fixed at Rs 15,000 for primary, Rs 25,000 for secondary and Rs 27,000 for higher secondary level through the Act. On the other hand, only three schools including one from Vadodara and two from Dahod have so far approached the   (FRC) formed by the state government seeking permission to charge fee beyond the upper limit fixed by the government. 
 
 The schools that have sought the committee’s approval for charging higher fees include Sinor-based C A Patel Learning Institute based in Mota Fofalia in Vadodara, St Mary and Limkheda-based Teerth Sarvajanik Trust School – both from Dahod. The fee regulation committee headed by retired judge G N Rana, has however, decided not to reveal the fees that the schools have proposed to charge from students. 
 
 But the dismal number of applications that they have received from private schools has become a matter of concern for the committee members as well as the district education officers (DEOs) and district primary education officers (DPEOs) of seven districts who held a meeting here on Saturday. Sources suggest that within Vadodara district, there are 65 schools that presently charge fees above the upper limits fixed by the state government. 
 
 Of these 45 schools, who had moved the Gujarat High Court have received relief in submitting their details before the zonal fee regulation committee as they have been allowed to submit their details till June 15 instead of the earlier deadline of May 24.
 
 This means, there are 20 schools in the district which are yet to approach the zonal fee regulation committee even as technically there are only three working days left before the deadline of May 24. 
 
