Kolkata: Posters urging you not to drink and drive will soon greet you across city nightclubs, pubs and restaurants. They will also list the penalties that one is likely to face in case the rule is flouted. 

 In a bid to check drunk driving, restaurant and nightclub owners went into a huddle with the police on Friday. It has been decided that a joint initiative will be launched to curb the practice that has resulted in several deaths over the last few months. The drive will include an awareness programme and will be followed by an effort to keep a vigil on late-night drinking. But nightclubs will not be required to use breathalyzers on patrons, as had been recently instructed by the police.
 
 On Thursday, the police sent a list of dos for around 30 nightclubs in Kolkata which included use of breathalyzers on patrons who have been drinking in excess. Restaurants will also be required to follow them. The Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association of Eastern India (HROAEI) had pointed out that they had no legal authority to use it on patrons. “We have now been told that our legal authority to use it will be explored. So, for the time being we are not having to use it,” said Sudesh Poddar, president, HRAEI.
 
 But restaurant and pub-owners have been asked to make sure that patrons who seem to be inebriated are either guided to a cab or driven back by the club’s driver. “While we have accepted this instruction, all of us don’t have enough drivers at our disposal. But we are planning to get in touch with cab aggregators like Ola and Uber and will request them to set up kiosks at nightclubs and bars. This is an easy and practical way of handling the problem,” said Poddar.
 
 The posters are expected to be ready in a fortnight. They will be followed by a city-wide hoarding campaign as well. “The stress of the campaign will be on drinking responsibly. It seems that the idea is on driving home the risks of drink driving which is good. We need a campaign like this that will also talk about the penalties,” said a nightclub owner.
 
 Soon after the police had sent the instructions about 10 days ago, HRAEI had pointed out that they could not be expected to haul up drunken patrons. “Policing is not our job and we have mentioned it to the police officers on Friday. They have assured us that we shall not be held responsible for drunk driving cases, provided we make an effort to screen the errant drivers. We shall try our best and plan to start working on the plan immediately,” said Poddar.
 
 
