VADODARA: It is a   among college students, especially medicos studying in  . Apart from offering books for nominal fees, the library also kept the area clean and free of nuisance. But the   ( ) men swooped in on this library being run from a bus-stop and seized hundreds of books some days ago. Dilip Patil, who runs the library, was told that he can’t store so many books there. 

 Though, the civic authorities have agreed to return his books, the future of this ‘Urban Book Shelf’ is uncertain. “I wasn’t issued any prior notice. The library I was running isn’t illegal. It was started with the help of former MP Praful Goradiya who had helped us renovating this bus-stop and turning it into a library. The VMC men told me that I can’t run library here,” said Dilip Patil who runs the library. “I showed them the letter that was written by Goradiya and explained how we had got permission from the former municipal commissioner. But they seized the books and was asked to pay fine. We met the municipal commissioner on Thursday who said that my books will be returned but where will I run this library now,” said Patil.
 
 The civic authorities are widening the Jail Road and walls on either sides are being demolished. “This bus-stop too will be demolished and I don’t have any alternative space,” he said. 
 
 Patil charged nominal fees from the readers and also gave them free to the needy students. “I have been running library since 1992 outside the fine arts faculty of MSU. In 2015, I was shifted on the Jail Road outside   and the bus-stop too was designed in a way to attract eyeballs,” Patil said. The project involves transforming underutilized public spaces into dynamic spaces. The bus-stop where this library is functioning was in a shabby condition earlier. The VMC itself had helped us in renovating this bus-stop for library earlier,” said Priyank Shah, an architect who had helped renovate the bus-stop.
 
  “It would be great if the civic authorities help Patil in relocating the library to another good place,” he added. 
 
 Municipal commissioner, Dr Vinod Rao said, "I have ordered to release the seized books immediately. We will accommodate the library at a suitable place."
 
