ALWAR: A day after the incident of patients dying after   came to light, the health department identified seven persons on Saturday who died in various hospitals after the process.

 However, department officials have not yet confirmed if the deaths have occurred due to contaminated   transfusion. But, they have confirmed that these seven persons had undergone blood transfusion.
 
 After initial investigation, the health department identified seven such patients who died between February 19 and 23.
 
 Officials said that patient Sonia Kalra died in   after complications during caesarean delivery at a government hospital. The investigating team pointed out that she had kidney failure and suffered from respiratory problems. She had undergone blood transfusion.
 
 Chhagan, another patient, was admitted to   on February 17. He had ulcer and was suffering from edema. Doctors performed a surgery on February 21, during which they transfused blood. On the same day, he caught fever and was referred to Jaipur on February 23. But, he died. The investigating team said that he died from an injury suffered in an accident.
 
 Another patient, Hasanbasri, was admitted to Solanki Hospital on February 17. The team found that he died from infection of his lungs and multiple organ failure. He died on February 22.
 
 Similarly, Devi underwent a surgery to remove her uterus on February 19 in  . After the surgery, she was referred to Sania Hospital on February 20. The hospital referred her to Jaipur on February 21. But, she died while undergoing treatment. Her family has filed a FIR alleging carelessness of doctors at Kotwali police station.
 
 Similarly, Kampo and Asina, who were admitted to Geetanjali Hospital after suffering head injuries, too died.
 
 Officials confirmed that all seven deaths, reported during four days (between February 19 and 23), happened after blood transfusion. All the patients who died received blood from Makhan Lal Blood Bank.
 
 The health department’s team from Jaipur, headed by additional director Dr  , inspected the private hospitals from where these deaths were reported. Dr Jain said that they have seized records from these hospitals and collected details from the blood bank.
 
 The bank had issued 167 units of blood to patients between February 19 and February 23. They have sent six samples of blood to a private hospital in Jaipur for testing.
 
 
