KOLKATA: Unlike previous years, there isn’t much excitement about the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test ( ) among medical aspirants this year. Many of them, in fact, have decided to give the May 7 test a miss. From vast difference in HS and CBSE syllabi to confusion over language, reasons are many.

 Subhadeep Roy, a student of  , is planning to skip this year’s NEET since he believes he isn’t prepared to take the test. “If I could take the medical entrance tests organized by the WBJEE, I would have given my best shot. There would be a high chance of clearing the exam that follows the HS syllabus. There is a lot of difference between the syllabi of the HS council and CBSE — the NEET-conducting body,” he reasoned.
 
 Roy is not willing to waste one of the three NEET attempts as fixed by CBSE.
 
 Subhadeep will study the NCERT syllabus for a year and take NEET in 2018. “I would also enroll myself to a private tuition. As an alternate opportunity, I’ve now planned to take the engineering exam that will be conducted by the WBJEE board,” he said.
 
 Another medical aspirant whose dream has been dashed is Javedul Hassan. He, too, has decided to skip NEET. “First, CBSE decided that the students who have already exhausted three attempts can’t appear in the exam. Then the notice was modified. Now, the syllabus is very different from what we study in schools affiliated to the HS Council. Also, it is not yet clear how far CBSE can bridged the two syllabi,” said the student of   in Murshidabad.
 
 “I aimed for medical entrance only. And now I am completely at a loss,” Hassan added. He had secured 87% in Madhyamik.
 
 “During NEET 2013, it was decided that in case of any discrepancies in question papers framed in different vernacular languages, the one in English will stand valid. It had landed several students from Bengali-medium schools in trouble,“ said a former   board member. It could also be one of the reason why several medical aspirants are wary of appearing in NEET.
 
 
