HYDERABAD: In a new twist to the   war between the two  , Telangana on Thursday said   has been allotted 350   more than its requirement. Arguing before the   in Delhi on Thursday, Telangana said the realistic net irrigation requirement for utilisation of projects in AP is 155.4 TMC. However, AP has been allotted 512 TMC, which is about 350 TMC more than the residuary state requires, Telangana said. 

 Since the overall available water cannot be altered, Telangana requested the tribunal to reduce the allocations made to AP and give it to them. Stating that AP has been given 'excess' water though the most of the river basin is within the Telangana state, the state irrigation officials pleaded for higher allocations to meet the needs of the new state.
 
 Stressing on in-basin and outside the basin parameters, Telangana asked the tribunal to stop diversion of water by AP to other basins. It reminded the tribunal that water from the Krishna basin has been diverted to Penna basin in Rayalaseema and the Godavari basin in the delta area in order to extend the irrigation facility to more districts.
 
 "While most of Telangana is waiting to get water for one crop, the Krishna delta is enjoying two and three crop seasons with abundant water. Lack of irrigation facility has forced Telangana farmers to go for borewell cultivation which has been burdening them heavily," argued Telangana. The state pointed out that the requirements of projects outside the basin may be considered only after serving the inside basin projects.
 
 Responding to Telangana's argument, AP submitted that the prayers of Telangana ran contrary to the order dated October 19, 2016, passed by the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal which said, "Section 89 of Act No. 6 of 2014 does not show that it has to do anything with distribution of water much less amongst the four states or to withdraw the allocations made for utilisation outside basin for historical reasons to the state of Andhra Pradesh." 
 
 The AP government also pointed out that Telangana is a rich state with abundant mineral, coal and urban markets. The software exports of Telangana are more than 75,000 crore while the total revenue of AP is not even half of that. 
 
