BENGALURU: Small and   of plastic products protested against the closing down of their industries and seizing of their materials by the  ,   ( ) and municipal authorities, on the pretext that they are manufacturing  .

 This took place at an interaction session organised by the   (KASSIA) between manufacturers, KASSIA officials, TM Vijay Bhasakar, additional chief secretary, Ministry of Environment, Ecology and Forests, GOK and Lakshman, chairman of the KSPCB.
 
 The manufacturers say that despite manufacturing exempted plastic items, the authorities seize their materials and shut down their units claiming otherwise.
 
 The notification issued by the Ministry of Forest, Ecology and Environment on March 11 2016, banned the manufacturing, storing, supplying, transporting and sale of the following items made of plastic- carry bags, banners, buntings, flags, plates, cups, dining table sheets, cling film and flex. An earlier ban, only applied to plastic bags of 40 microns or less.
 
 The 2016 notification also exempted those 'plastic bags which constitute or form an integral part of packaging in which goods are sealed prior to use at manufacturing units'.
 
 "In spite of the clear notification on the exempted products and NGT orders, the implementing authorities across the state started seizing factories as well as trading points of the integral packaging products, manufacturing and selling. With this type of harassment, closure notices issued in spite of NGT directions and in spite of following legal procedures to run the industries with valid consents, we will be forced to shut down legally permitted industries and migrate to neighbouring states, where there is no ban and also friendly government interactive environment" reads the memorandum submitted to Vijay Bhaskar, by KASSIA president A Padmanabha, on behalf of KASSIA.
 
 "The BBMP seized our raw materials and closed down our units saying that we were producing plastic carry bags. Our bags are for integral packing and have no carrying features whatsoever" said a manufacturer.
 
 He was only one of the hundred or so plastic traders, manufacturers and producers present at the event, many of whom had come armed with their products, so as to make the situation as clear as possible to the officials in charge.
 
 Lalit, a manufacturer and representative of the Karnataka State Plastic Disposable Cups Association said "I understand why they banned the smaller plastic tea cups, but our cups are made of entirely recyclable materials".
 
 "It is ironic that they have banned our easily recyclable cups and not the small plastic mineral water bottles that are much harder to recycle" he added.
 
 Agreeing that it was unfair for legal businesses to be treated this way, Lakshman said “Proper enforcement is integral to this process, if I find that businesses producing non-banned items have been targeted, I will immediately look into the matter”.
 
 Vijay Bhaskar requested all the impacted businesses to send their representatives to KASSIA, so that the matter could be looked into.
 
 He also said that the materials produced by the businesses that come forward will be properly inspected and tested, if they pass the inspections, he will look into the matter sympathetically.
 
 "This ban has caused more than 50,000 people to lose their jobs" said Sachin B, a trader.
 
 "The government was hoping to cut down on pollution and garbage by implementing the ban, its almost been a year now and I see no change. Since plastic has been banned, people are shifting to paper bags which is much worse since trees will have to be cut down for that purpose".
 
 "Who knows, in 20 years we might all be here again protesting a paper ban" he added.
 
