Mumbai: A carrot-and-stick approach is likely to be adopted by the government in its bid to encourage a digital (or cashless) ecosystem. One of the possibilities that is being mulled over, in the run-up to the budget, is the reintroduction of banking cash transaction tax ( ).

 While the objective of BCTT, which existed from June 1, 2005 to March 31, 2009, was to track unaccounted money and trace its source and destination, the aim now of BCTT, which may be introduced in some form, will be to disincentivise cash usage. Unlike the erstwhile BCTT, it may also cover savings bank accounts to ensure the objective is met.
 
 However, the writing on the wall doesn’t appear to be final, especially in regards with the cash withdrawal limits over which BCTT should be applied, if it is reintroduced. Also, with the existing limit of withdrawal being Rs 24,000 a week from a savings bank account, BCTT doesn’t seem to be a practical step to take right away, said sources close to these developments.
 
 The carrot — which is a lower rate of presumptive tax on ‘digital’ turnover — that refers to payments received in cheque or any digital format, for small traders, businessmen and professionals has already been announced. The legislative amendment in this regard will be carried out through the forthcoming Finance Bill, 2017, to be tabled in Parliament on February 1.
 
 Presumptive tax applies to those having a turnover of Rs 2 crore or less. The existing rate of deemed profit of 8% stands reduced to 6% in respect of the turnover received via digital means. Thus, a businessman whose entire turnover of Rs 2 crore is via cheque or other digital forms, will save tax of Rs 1.24 lakh approximately. Other means of incentivising digital transactions are also been contemplated, said government sources.
 
 The tax administration reform committee ( ), headed by  , in its November 2014 report had brought back into focus, BCTT. It stated: “The availability of information that was being collected through BCTT would certainly help the   department widen the information base.” It pointed out that widening of the information base can be done through revision of Rule 114E of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, (dealing with Annual Information Returns) to include in its ambit cash withdrawals exceeding specified amounts (viz: Rs 50,000 in the case of individuals and HUFs and Rs.1,00,000 in the case of other persons) made in a day from bank accounts, other than savings accounts. This will not inconvenience taxpayers by making them liable to a fresh levy with all its procedural requirements.” Or alternatively, the committee added: “BCTT should be reinstated as an effective administrative measure”.
 
 Government sources said the focus has shifted from information gathering to promoting a  , which in turn would curb black money. Thus, the objective of BCTT, if reintroduced, would be different.
 
 
