Last year, the Kannada film industry was jolted after two actors lost their lives on the set of  . Keeping this in mind, Hombale Films, the makers of Yash’s next,  , for which shooting is underway near  , have secured an   cover for the entire crew.

  Speaking about this,   says, “When you shoot at the scale at which we are, safety becomes a concern. There are many crew members involved, the conditions are extreme and there are several variations in the set, so it is not the safest place to shoot at.” Yash adds, “Producer   and I were discussing the value of life and the need for professionalism in the industry and he happily agreed to provide the insurance cover.”
 
 Yash says that this is big major step by the production house, which has made everyone that much more comfortable on the set. “The value of life is equal for everyone — it doesn’t matter if it is mine or a junior artistes’. There shouldn’t be any differentiation. This is a display of humanity by the production house.”
 
 
  
 Vijay’s primary business concern is construction, in which they place utmost importance on safety and security. He had been dallying with the idea of extending it to his film wing as well, and considering that KGF is a big-budget film, he decided to begin with this movie. “The tragic accidents that occurred in the recent past only strengthened our resolve,” says Vijay.
 
 The makers have invested in a third-party group insurance, which provides coverage to 500 people on set at any given point. The policy provides medical cover in terms of cost incurred due to hospitalization, if any, and post-hospitalization care. In case of death, the next of kin of those named in the policy will be compensated with five times the remuneration, and up to two years payment of daily wage unnamed personnel. “In fact, the policy even provides coverage to any bodily harm a spectator on set may sustain,” says Vijay, adding, “For a production house that is spending several crores on a film, a few lakhs set aside for insurance coverage is not a big deal and should be made mandatory for the entire industry to provide a safe and secure work environment for everyone involved.”
 
 This move has been lauded by   President,  , who feels that other production houses should follow suit. “I am happy with the move. It shows that the makers care for the safety of the crew. I want to call them to the film chamber and wish them, so that everyone knows of this,” he says. 
 
 (With inputs from Prathibha Joy)
 
