CHENNAI: A 13-year-old died and her 9-year-old   was among 12 others injured after the private van transporting them to school overturned near Vandalur on Monday morning when the driver tried to overtake a lorry. The driver of the vehicle, who was later arrested along with the owner, was not licensed to pilot light motor vehicles (LMV), including vans, police said.

 While G Nethra Shri, a Class VII student, and her sister G Roshni, a Class V student, were taken to Chettinad Hospital in Kelambakkam where the older girl was declared dead, the other children were taken to Tagore Medical College and Hospital, also in Kelambakkam, where they were treated as outpatients.
 
 Van driver Karthik, 23, of Vandalur, who had abandoned the vehicle and fled after the accident, and his employer Nithyanandam of Oonamancherry, are now in judicial custody at Central Prison in Puzhal.
 
 Police said Karthik picked up the 13 children from Kelambakkam, Vandalur, Kolapakkam, Melakottaiyur and nearby areas and was proceeding to Velammal Vidyashram in Mambakkam when the accident occurred on Vengambakkam Koot Road, off Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road, around 8am. 
 
 Based on witness accounts, police said the driver was trying to overtake a lorry but came too close to the heavier vehicle and panicked. He then swerved violently to the right and lost control of the vehicle.
 
 The van   and toppled. Nethra Shri and and Roshini, who were sitting close to the open door, were flung through it and were trapped underneath the vehicle.
 
 Several passing motorists and a few residents from surrounding areas rushed to the site and helped pull out the children. Someone called the 108 ambulance service and the children were rushed to the two hospitals.
 
 A team of the Otteri police which soon arrived at the spot later arrested Karthik and found he only held a licence to drive only motorcycles with gear (MCWG). Nithyanandam knew this and yet allowed Karthik to ply his van trasporting children to and from school, putting their lives at risk, police said.
 
 They were both booked under IPC Section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).
 
