NAGPUR: Owing to the negligent attitude of the authorities towards them, medical officers running the   ambulance service have gone on strike. They are attending only severe medical calls and a doctor told TOI that only one call was attended on Sunday.

 However, BVG India, the operator of 108 service, denied any such strike and dismissed it as just rumour, maintaining that the services are pretty much intact.
 
 On Saturday evening, from 8pm, the Mumbai medical officers had initiated the strike. Following this, the doctors from the city too went on a strike. One of the ambulance doctor on Sunday said, “We have not been attending any call since last evening. Every medical officer has given it in writing that they will be supporting us.” A meeting of the doctors was held at  , on Sunday, which was attended by about 18 doctors.
 
 Another ambulance doctor said, “Despite being an employee to BVG, none of us are provided facilities like provident funds (PF) or medical insurance. That is our biggest concern. Being in the ambulance, we put our lives at risk but the company does not provide us any security.”
 
 The doctor said, “We all have been willing to form an association, but the company doesn’t allow us, giving us warning that we will be thrown out of our jobs if we do so. The doctors working at   office have formed an association and they decided to go on a strike. We have been acting upon their words.”
 
 “Lot of maintenance work is always required in some or the other ambulance for its proper functioning. Even after intimation to the authorities, none of them take action. Recently, an ambulance arriving at Daga hospital was emitting smoke,” said the doctor.
 
 However, MEMS head ( ) Dr Deepak Ukey told TOI, “The strike is just a rumour. We have traced between 6 and 11am and none of the calls have been missed.
 
 “Doctors work in three shifts while pilots work in two shifts. All the doctors and pilots have taken up their respective shifts. I am not sure but this rumour must have been spread by doctors who might have night shift. We will be investigating the matter. But till now, no verbal or written complaint has been given to us by any of them.”
 
