SANGRUR: Launching an all-out attack against   in the backdrop of the 
  ,   on Thursday accused him of "helping" forces who want to disturb Punjab's peace and push it back to the dark days of militancy.

 On the last day of the poll campaign in Punjab, Rahul addressed a gathering in Ballian village here and referred to the Tuesday night's 
  , which left six dead.
 
 The blast had occurred shortly after the "jansabha" of   candidate Harminder Singh Jassi, who is contesting the February 4 elections from Maur assembly seat.
 
 "The most important thing is the atmosphere you live in. If that atmosphere gets spoiled, violence starts or anger prevails, then the work of farmers, labourers, weaker sections suffers, entire state suffers," Rahul said.
 
 Taking a veiled dig at the ruling Akalis and the AAP, Rahul said, "from one extremist thinking, Punjab should not go to other extremist thinking. Congress is one such party which takes all sections along. We want that Punjab should rapidly progress."
 
 "But if violence breaks, 
  , then everything will be destroyed. We have to understand that those forces, which destroyed Punjab earlier (referring to militancy period in the state), because of whom violence broke, such forces are yet again raising their head."
 
 " 
  and six people died (Maur). Arvind Kejriwal, who is Delhi's Chief Minister, is helping these forces and helping them raise their head. And this is most dangerous thing for Punjab.
 
 "If these forces raise their head again, then entire agenda will be hijacked and Punjab will look in some other direction," he warned.
 
 Rahul said, "So, it is necessary all of us together, be from any religion, caste or creed, we all should again stand up so that we can build a Punjab, which was known for its spirit of giving, a path as shown Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Gobind Singh."
 
 Addressing the gathering while sitting on a cot with villagers and farmers of Ballian here, Rahul also talked about farmers issues, saying during UPA's time loans of farmers amounting to Rs 70,000 crore were waived off and promised that if Congress forms the next government in the State, the burden of state's farmers will be lessened.
 
 Rahul is also scheduled to address poll rallies in Malwa belt later in the day, which constitute bulk of the seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly.
 
 After interacting with local villagers, Rahul also sat on a mat and shared food with them.
 
 From Sangrur constituency, Congress has fielded its former MP Vijay Inder Singla, who was also present. 
 
  
  
 
 
