BHOPAL: Irked over some recent decisions of   (MANIT) authorities, the elected student council of   has requested the institute to  .

 Sources said the council was not happy after the institute refused to accept their various demands and imposed ‘unnecessary ban’ on the students. Incidentally,   authorities had decided on Sunday that they will not allow students to keep vehicles with them after a student drowned in a pond located on the campus on Saturday. MANIT also cancelled all cultural and technical events which were scheduled to be organised later this year. Sources said the decision didn’t go down well among the students. The student council has written a letter to the dean student welfare (DSW), Yogendra Kumar, in this regard. Kumar confirmed that the council wrote such a letter to him.
 
 Students said there was no use running the council when MANIT does not entertain their issues. “Student council is an elected body, which works for the students’ welfare. However, there is no purpose of having it when we can’t help students,” said a council member, pleading anonymity. After the accidental death of the student at the pond, students wanted the authorities to postpone the exam, which started from Monday. “It was a tragic incident where we have lost one of our friends. It is shocking that MANIT does not care about it and continued with the exam schedule,” said a council member. Students were also peeved over MANIT’s insistence to use the canteen fee for conducting cultural and technical fest. 
 
 On the other hand, Kumar said no decision was taken in this regard as of now. “I have asked students to resolve the issue after the mid-term is over. Till then I have asked them to concentrate on their studies,” he said. About future of the council, MANIT authorities said it is too early to comment what will happen to the council. “We are not thinking of dissolving or superseding the council. We will work out some solution,” said a MANIT official, without quoting his name.
 
 Meanwhile, MANIT has taken undertakings from students that they will not keep bike with them. Around 3500 students have given their undertaking to the institute authorities.
 
 
