NEW DELHI: If you’ve been banking on Delhi Metro for parking to make your commute easier, here’s a shocker—in  , only nine stations will have the facility. This includes five stations on line 7 (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) and four on line 8 ( ). 

 The reason is out of the 78 stations in Phase-III, 68 are being designed with multi-modal integration (MMI) features, said officials. “Commuters are being encouraged to opt for last-mile connectivity, especially as the Metro network is increasing with Phase-III,” said an official of   (DMRC).
 
 Currently, the network provides parking facility at 100 stations, including those on the   line. While the capacity varies, most are found to be packed through the day mainly because of low rates. For instance, the rate for car parking for six hours is only Rs 20 on the Metro premises, a fraction of the rate charged for surface parking across the city. 
 
 DMRC is also facing the problem of scarcity of land for the stations themselves, making it difficult to carve out extra space for additional facilities. Instead, 68 stations have been designed to have smooth interface with paratransits like autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses and taxis, with designated spots for pick and drop. 
 
 “Parking lots are planned at only those stations where property development will be undertaken,” said a Metro official. Property development is the commercial utilisation of station space, like those at Nehru Place or Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 With the expanding network, stations are now nearer for a large part of the city, said sources. “Earlier, a station could have been 5-6km away, prompting riders to take a car till the Metro. However, with Phase-III, most stations will be 2-3km away. This will make taking an autorickshaw or e-rickshaw easier than a car, thus eliminating the need for parking,” said an official.
 
 Line 7 will have multi-modal integration at 38 stations and line 8 at 23 stations. After the extension of line 6 to Escorts Mujesar, it will have MMI at seven stations. Similarly the extended line 2 (till Samaypur Badli) will have three, line 5 four and the Dwarka-Najafgarh corridor three stations with MMI.
 
 
