NEW DELHI: Delhi and   sought to provide a boost to trade and security ties in a meeting between PM   and his visiting Australian counterpart   even as the much-awaited free trade agreement remained elusive.

 The two countries signed six agreements, including one for expanding counterterrorism cooperation, but could not conclude negotiations for Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) which they have been negotiating. 
 
 “We had a very good discussion about the CECA, and I think it’s fair to say that progress has not been as fast as either of us would like it to be,” said Turnbull after the meeting.
 
 The discussions also veered around energy with Turnbull saying that Australia is ready to supply uranium to India as soon as possible.
 
 The two countries had signed a civil nuclear cooperation three years ago but the actual supply has not yet commenced in the absence of any commercial contract.
 
 “We are working closely with India to meet our respective requirements for the provision of fuel for India’s civil nuclear programme,” he said.
 
 Modi said Australia is ready to export uranium to India with the passage of a legislation in the   with bi-partisan support.
 
 A joint statement issued after the talks said Modi and Turnbull reiterated their support for continued bilateral nuclear cooperation and that they anticipated commercial export of Australian uranium to India could begin soon.
 
 In the talks, Turnbull noted Australia’s strong support for India’s membership of the  . The Australian side also expressed its support for India’s membership of the Australia Group and the Wassenaar Arrangement, the two export control regimes.
 
 Resolving to deepen maritime cooperation, the two prime ministers recognised that India and Australia share common interests in ensuring maritime security and the safety of sea lines of communication.
 
 “Both leaders recognised the importance of freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce, as well as resolving maritime disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with international law, including UNCLOS (  Convention on the Law of the Sea),” said the joint statement.
 
 The comments are seen as an reference to China’s growing assertiveness in the  .
 
 “The two Prime Ministers highlighted their shared desire to ensure that Indian Ocean architecture keeps pace with regional issues and addresses emerging threats and challenges in the region,” the statement said.
 
 Modi and Turnbull agreed that the bilateral maritime exercise first held in the   in 2015 will be repeated off Western Australia in the first half of 2018.
 
 On defence ties, the statement said both countries remain strongly committed to the breadth of their defence ties and recalled the Special Forces Bilateral Exercise conducted in October 2016. 
 
 “They also welcomed a decision for the first bilateral Army-to-Army exercise to take place in 2018. They looked forward to the inaugural secretaries’ defence and foreign affairs dialogue in the ‘2+2’ format as a new mechanism to build on the deep strategic partnership.”
 
