PUNE: The Pune rural police are still clueless about the identity of the assailant of 23-year-old   Antara Das, who was   on December 23 last year at Talawade  .

 The interrogation of software engineer Santosh Kumar Gupta, who has been arrested from Bengaluru, for hatching the plot to kill Antara, has not yielded anything noteworthy. The police have now focussed their probe on cab drivers ferrying employees in the Talawade IT Park area and also on the workers at food joints and mess near Antara’s house at Nigdi.
 
 Gupta is currently in custody of the Pune rural police. Senior inspector of the local crime branch (LCB) Ram Jadhav said Gupta has been questioned extensively. “When Antara was murdered, Gupta was in Bengaluru. His cell phone records, CCTV footage obtained from his office showed Gupta was not in Talawade,” Jadhav said, adding, “We are still questioning him.”
 
  “We have started taking information about cab drivers ferrying employees of the company where Antara was working. We have also asked for details of cab drivers working for other companies in the IT park,” Jadhav said.
 
 Jadhav said that police are talking to workers at the mess where Antara used to have her food and also workers at the food joints she used to visit frequently.
 
 Jadhav ruled out any link between Antara’s   and the suicide of a 25-year-old cook who was found hanging at Durga Devei Hill on December 24 last year. “The deceased was from Shimla and used to work at a hotel in Pimpri,” Jadhav said.
 
 Antara was stabbed to death on December 23 at Talawade IT Park when she was walking towards Kanbay Chowk on Dehu-Chikhli Road. A grievously injured Antara had picked herself up and ran for help. She collided with a motorcyclist, who rushed her to a hospital, where she was declared dead by the doctors.
 
 On December 28, police arrested 24-year-old Santosh Gupta from Bengaluru. Antara and Gupta had met while they were undergoing training in software programming in Bengaluru. Gupta had assisted Antara in getting a job in Pune and also accompanied her to Pune in April last year. He had helped her find accommodation. When Gupta started sending messages to Antara professing his love for her and proposed marriage to her, Antara blocked his cell phone number and also his social media accounts. Despite that Gupta attempted to contact her through different mobile numbers.
 
 
