While we’d like to believe that   has moved ahead of skin biases, it’s not completely true. In a country that sells the maximum quantity of fairness creams in the world, and is obsessed with a certain skin colour and type, most young girls suffer from low self-esteem because of not confining to the “ideal” skin type. With acne being a common problem in young adults, Culture Machine’s digital channel ‘Blush’ created a new video titled, ‘Advantages of acne’ in the Sista from the South series which takes this mockery head on.
 
  Titled ‘Advantages of acne’, this video is a funny ‘sisticle’ that lists out the crazy perks of having acne. While being funny, this video takes on a very ingrained belief of the Indian Society. Featuring popular artist  , this video aims to generalise the idea of having acne and remove the contempt attached to it. Most girls spend a major chunk of their life wallowing in low self-confidence issues simply because of their uneven skin and this video aims to change this in a sarcastic and funny way.
  
    released a statement – “In every episode of Sista from the South, we aim to break stereotypes and this does the same. In our country, we have very strong sentiments against acne and who better than Sofia Ashraf to take on this with her smart and candid style!”
  
  Sofia Ashraf, known to be outspoken, commented: “I have acne and I've spent a major chunk of my life allowing it to affect my self-confidence. I'm sure there are tonnes of women out there who deal with this every day. Sometimes, when we are having a particularly bad skin day, we'd rather stay home than step out. I think it's time for influencers to come out and say that it's OK to not have perfect skin. In fact, why not normalise conversations around acne and have some fun with it!”
  
  Sofia Ashraf has been labelled many things over the years – feminist, fundamentalist, and narcissist. Her penchant for comedy and writing led her to Culture Machine’s office. With tongue-in- cheek sense of humour, an unapologetic voice and engaging content for South Indians, ‘Sister from the South’ series feature music videos, spoken words, short films and sketch comedies for all the saucy Blush women out there. 
