Pimpri Chinchwad: Pimpri Chinchwad flunked the hygiene test badly this year, ranking 72nd among 500 cities in the Swachh Survekshan survey released by the government on Thursday.

 The fall has been steep considering that it bagged the ninth spot last year in the cleanliness index.
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Nitin Kalje blamed the civic officials and contractors responsible for garbage removal for neglecting their work. “We will take action against officials and contractors and take measures to prevent recurrence of poor ranks in future,” said mayor Nitin Kalje.
 
 “The ruling party has given directives to civic administration to start work for removal of water hyacinth and cleaning of nullahs after my election as mayor,” said Kalje.
 
 Dilip Gawde, joint commissioner, PCMC, however, felt that Pimpri Chinchwad slipped in the ranking because it was unfairly compared with small towns having less population. “There were only 75 cities with million plus population in the competition in cleanliness category in 2016 so PCMC was compared with cities having the same population or more. But now small towns like Shirdi and others having less population and area are being compared with big cities like Pimpri Chinchwad. It is easier to maintain cleanliness and   in small towns due to less population and lesser amount of garbage generation,” he said.
 
 The opposition parties and even the ruling BJP alleged that the civic administration took the cleanliness drive lightly this year after its creditable performance last year.
 
 Yogesh Behl, opposition leader and group leader of NCP corporators, PCMC, said, “The civic health department did not have a full-time head of department for nearly six months. NCP corporator Datta Sane from Chikhli had brought truckloads of uncleared garbage from his ward and dumped it in front of the PCMC main office building, which highlighted the total neglect of the health department towards garbage clearance and maintenance of cleanliness in the city.”
 
 She added, “Newly elected BJP corporators are busy taking credit for inaugurating the civic projects that were completed and inaugurated during the previous NCP rule. The ruling party and civic administration are not bothered about the cleanliness and health problems of the city.”
 
 Rahul Kalate, group leader of Shiv Sena corporators, PCMC said, “The party has raised concerns over water hyacinth on all three rivers, uncleared garbage, and unclean nullahs in the city. But the civic administration has been only informing that the tenders have been invited and work orders will be allotted after completion of this process. There is danger of outbreak of epidemics in the city in the rainy season if the civic administration does not wake up and conduct massive drives to clean the city.”
 
 
