PANAJI: With major public sector shipyards tied up in executing current orders, the ministry of defence has turned to Vasco-based Goa Shipyard Ltd to collaborate with Russia’s United Ship Building to build guided-missile stealth frigates for the Indian  , which are likely to be armed with BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles.

 Two Russian delegations paid back-to-back visit to the defence public sector shipyard to inspect the facilities on March 3 and returned “happy with what they saw”.
 
 During a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on the sidelines of the 2016 BRICS Summit, the two countries inked a deal to purchase guided-missile stealth frigates from Russia.
 
 As per the agreement, India will acquire four multi-purpose frigates packed with sensors and weapons, including the BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles for around $4 billion. Two of the frigates will come from Russia, while the other two will be constructed in India, defence ministry sources said.
 
 “The Russian specialists from Yantar shipyard in Kaliningrad checked our infrastructure and R&D facilities. They looked around the facility and our audits and they seem impressed,”   chairman and managing director Shekhar Mital told TOI.
 
 Classified as Project 11356, the contract for the two frigates, which are likely to be built at Goa Shipyard, is in the form of a government-to government order and delivery is expected over the next six to eight years.
 
 “It is a very complex project. It is in collaboration with the Russians and it is going to be long negotiations and tough discussions. It is going to be hard work for the next two years. It is a little too early to say anything. We have just been nominated for the project,” Mital said.
 
 With the country’s major public sector shipyards tied up in current naval orders and the Indian Navy battling to increase its fleet strength, the government began to look at shipyards in the country that could build the upgraded Talwar-class frigates.
 
 The Indian Navy already operates Russian stealth frigates with the first three Talwar-class frigates being inducted from Russia in 2003-2004.
 
 Known as the Admiral Grigorovich-class in Russia, the warships will incorporate a much improved stealthy hull design with improved low radar signature, acoustic and infrared signatures.
 
 Indian Navy officials said a Russian delegation has been evaluating Indian shipyards for project 11356 and had visited Mazgaon Dockyard, Cochin Shipyard, Larsen & Toubro shipyard and Reliance Group’s Pipavav shipyard.
 
 The Grigorovich-class frigates that Russia has offered India remain half-constructed at the Yantar Shipyard in Russia.
 
 
