Chandigarh: The Haryana cabinet on Tuesday approved formulation of Haryana voluntary state education service rules, 2017, for taking over teaching and non-teaching staff working in government aided schools across the state. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. 

 Under the new rules, Rs one lakh fine would be imposed for each minor violation committed by managements of aided schools with respect to utilisation of land and buildings of the schools for non-educational purposes after taking over the staff in voluntary education service. No objection certificates and recognition of aided schools would be withdrawn in case of major violations. Managements of aided schools would have to ensure clearance of the dues of the employees prior to their appointment under these rules. Grant-in-aid would not be payable to the aided schools in respect of the posts incumbent of which have been taken over in the voluntary education service.
 
 The cabinet also approved Draft Stage Carriage Permit Scheme-2017 under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, was also approved by the cabinet under which 452 intra-state routes will be given to private operators in the state. The permits will be granted to an applicant subject to the clearance of dues in respect of previous permits, if any. The permits already granted under the City Bus Service Scheme, 2004 will be valid. Cabinet also approved the Haryana Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, and reduced the rate of interest from 1.5 % to 1% on amount of tax due and penalty.
 
 The cabinet also approved the onetime settlement scheme of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for clearance of enhanced cost default in one go by allottees of industrial plots. 75% rebate would be given in the amount of interest and delayed interest in default towards payment of enhanced compensation against demands raised from them.
 
 In another decision, the cabinet decided to provide loan of Rs 750 crore to the two power distribution companies (discoms) in the state running in losses at a concessional rate of interest of about 3% lower than the market rate under the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) scheme.
 
 Under the UDAY scheme, the state government has taken over 75% (Rs 25,950) debt of Haryana discoms as on September 30, 2015. The total debt was estimated at Rs 34,600 crore.
 
 Ex-post facto approval was given by the cabinet for granting relaxation in the provisions under the Haryana Sports and Physical Fitness Policy-2015. In view of the announcement made by the chief minister, cash prizes to the medal winners and their coaches/judge referee and participants of Rio Olympic Games held from August 5 to 21, 2016, have been given by getting relaxation in the policy for giving cash award in the same financial year, giving cash awards to those sportspersons who are not residents of Haryana, or not representing Haryana in national championships and providing award to coaches.
 
 Approval was also granted for employment to 30 land oustees of Indira Gandhi Super Thermal Power Plant, Jhajjar. The appointment to land oustees will be given in Haryana power utilities.
 
 The cabinet decided that the persons heading Zila Sainik Boards and assistant secretary of the Rajya Sainik Board would retire at the age of 60 years instead of 58 years at present. Maximum age at the time of recruitment will remain 57 years. 
 
 BOX
 
 Urban local bodies to collect entertainment tax 
 
 The Haryana cabinet on Tuesday approved the introduction of 'The Haryana 
 
 Municipal Entertainment Duty Bill, 2017' to levy entertainment duty for 
 
 admission to public entertainments across the state.
 
 It has been decided that in view of the poor financial conditions of the 
 
 municipal bodies, the entertainment duty would be collected by concerned urban 
 
 local bodies and the funds would be utilised for the development of civic
 
 amenities in the respective municipal areas. Haryana government has estimated
 
 entertainment tax collection of around Rs 106.19 crore in the 2017-18 budget
 
 estimates. Collection of entertainment tax was Rs 93.56 crore in the financial 
 
 year 2016-17.
 
 Earlier the entertainment tax was being collected by the excise and taxation 
 
 department in accordance with the provisions of Punjab Entertainment Duty Act, 
 
 1955. However, after the enactment of Haryana Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, 
 
 Punjab Entertainment Duty Act has been repealed. As per the decision, the
 
 entertainment duty will be levied on the entertainment points, outlets etc. in 
 
 the areas of municipal bodies.
 
 The state government would fix the entertainment duty to be collected by 
 
 municipal bodies and it would be uniform across the state. As per the cabinet
 
 decision, there will be a common list of exempted events or shows of 
 
 entertainments. It would be the duty of the urban local bodies to keep a regular 
 
 check on the proprietors of an entertainment provider. 
 
 
