MADURAI: Living up to its notorious reputation as a paradise for   and  , the sprawling   here saw at least three incidents of passengers being tricked and relieved of their valuables in an hour on Thursday. What is worse, the hapless complainants were stunned to hear policemen deployed to catch the marauding conmen blame it on “your carelessness”. 

 In one of the back-to-back incidents, apparently the handiwork of familiar gangs, a corporate employee lost his bags, one containing his laptop and the other his personal belongings. As he alerted the police personnel posted at the terminal immediately, he saw two other victims also narrate their losses. An elderly couple had lost their bag containing gold ornaments while a young man discovered his wallet had disappeared from his pocket. 
 
 Passengers pointed out that the terminal which handles hundreds of buses and more than a lakh of people a day lacked adequate security measures. The few CCTV cameras that have been installed are mostly restricted to the approach path leading to various platforms which in turn lack effective surveillance. Making full use of these security lapses, gangs have been on the prowl pouncing on every opportunity at the mofussil bus terminus.
 
 R Gokul, who lost his bags, narrated the nightmarish experience he had with the police personnel. “Hardly a few minutes had passed after I boarded a bus and settled into a seat when I found that two of my bags kept in the overhead luggage rack were missing. I immediately approached the outpost police station but was offered little help,” he said. Instead of immediately combing the area for the gang, they reprimanded the complainants for the carelessness.
 
 “Had they used the first few minutes that they utilised to reprimand us, they could have nabbed the thieves. They simply asked us to approach Anna Nagar police station under whose jurisdiction the terminal falls. At the said police station, with much difficulty and after calling up higher officials, the police came forward and registered a case under community service register (CSR),” he said. 
 
 On a 30-minute visit on Friday evening, TOI found that not even a single policeman was found inside the terminal, although a sub-inspector and a traffic warden were found outside. There was no police personnel in the outpost either. No wonder that the porous surroundings and poor lighting in the terminal would only help the thieves vanish into thin air. 
 
 However, top police officials from the city maintained that adequate security measures were in place at the terminal. R  , deputy commissioner of police, Madurai city, said “we have posted adequate police personnel at the out police station. There are crime and law & order police posted in civil and uniform. I will also check the theft issues.”
 
 
