NAGPUR: The   Devendra Fadnavis has allocated Rs100 crore for   (SSH) attached to the   and Hospital. The money will be released over five years. 

 The CM office (CMO) sent a letter in this regard to the   last week. “Though we already held a planning meeting on May 18, a detailed meeting will be held on June 2 when the college will chalk out details of proposals for equipment and other infrastructure for all the seven super specialities, along with the associated departments of pathology, anaesthesia, biochemistry and blood bank. It will also include the pending construction works,” said Dr Niswade.
 
 Officer on special duty at SSH, Dr MP Parchand told TOI that the government will release Rs20 crore each year from 2017-18 to 2021-22. The funds to be released in the first year include Rs10 crore for construction, Rs5 crore for equipment and remaining Rs5 crore for other works.
 
 The SSH will also be upgrading academically and will be starting DM in courses in addition to gastroenterology and cardiology. The other subjects include nephrology, neurology, neurosciences, cardio vascular thoracic surgery, urology and endocrinology. 
 
 The blood bank doesn’t have the blood component separation facility which is one of the basic requirements for all surgery patients. The NAT testing equipment is another priority for the blood bank.
 
 The kidney transplant unit, where already 15 transplants (including a cadaver transplant) have been performed so far, also needs a lot of infrastructural development. In fact, the modular operation theatre needed for the transplant can be considered as a priority.
 
 Currently, the endocrinology and the urology departments have only 5 and 8 beds respectively and can have additional beds. 
 
 The out patient department (OPD) needs a lot of attention. There is no proper waiting space for patient’s relatives. The proposed waiting room can be included in the new proposals as this was being planned with Rotary Club support.
 
 The chief of directorate of medical education and research (DMER) Dr Pravin Shingare told TOI that three more departments of surgical gastroenterology, department of transfusion medicine and immunology will be started. Additionally, the endocrinology department will be upgraded. Efforts will be made to start DM in all these subjects. 
 
 Dr Parchand stated that is a big opportunity which the SSH must grab. “We would be making the best of it. There is need to prioritize the needs and work accordingly,” he said.
 
