HYDERABAD: With temperatures rising and   remaining erratic in several areas,   are fast depleting in the state, especially in Hyderabad. This despite a bountiful monsoon last year.

 Data from various parts of city released by the government revealed that groundwater is being exploited more in thickly populated areas such as Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar, Ameerpet, Marredpally and Khairatabad.Though Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has been providing sufficient supplies in all parts of Greater Hydera bad, exploitation of groundwater is increasing in past one month.
 
 “Groundwater is being drawn through borewells, mostly in thickly populated areas by commercial establishments for various requirements. Depletion in ground water levels is expected to continue during the summer,“ said T Hansaraj, assistant director of ground water department.
 
 Many parts of Old City maintain satisfactory groundwater levels as many people mostly depend on water supplies from HMWS&SB.For instance, water level is just 2.60m below the ground level (mbgl) in Bahadurpura, 3.62m in Nampally and 4.21m in Asifnagar and Kulsumpura. Officials say, areas like Nampally are located in low-lying areas and Bahadurpura are close to  .
 
 Apart from core areas, others like Rajendranagar, Saroornagar and surrounding areas like Shankarpally are also witnessing fall in groundwater levels. The level in Rajendranagar was 12.74m last February, but it dipped to 16.13m this February, which is contrary to the trend in the entire state where water levels improved after good rainfall.
 
 Ground water department officials said the situation was not yet alarming as groundwater recharge had been satisfactory last year. Telangana received 18 per cent excess rainfall till February 2017 and this resulted in rise of groundwater to an average 5.61 mbgl compared to last year.
 
 “In Marredpally, water levels last February was 23.40 mbgl and it's 13.55 mbgl this year February. Similarly in Ameerpet, the water table was 19.03 last year February and this year, it's 18.20m,“ he said.
 
 According to the report, groundwater levels were found more than 20m below surface in 44 mandals across the state and between 15-20m in 61 mandals.
 
 Of the 584 mandals in the state, groundwater levels have already depleted in 231 mandals below 10 metres from the ground.
 
