CHENNAI: In a huge relief to   (AMMA) deputy general secretary   in a two decade-old FERA violation case, the Madras high court on Friday stayed all further proceedings in the case, where charges were framed against him on April 19.

 Dhinakaran came to the high court saying the additional chief metropolitan magistrate (economic offences court-I) had not heard his counsel before framing charges in the case on April 19.
 
 On Friday, Justice M S Ramesh, staying the case till July 17, said, “On the face of the records, reasonable opportunities have not been extended to the petitioner during the course of hearing. Notice to respondents returnable by July 17. Private notice permitted. There shall be an order of interim stay of all further proceedings in the case on the file of additional chief metropolitan magistrate (EO-I), Egmore till then.”
 
 It was Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) contention that as the sole director of M/s Dipper Investments Limited, a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands,   had transferred 1 crore US dollars without RBI permission.
 
 ED mentioned that the company maintained a bank account no. 30018937 in UK with Barclays Bank Suttan Surrey and that during the year 1994 about 21 cheques, totaling the value of US$ 1,04,93,313 were deposited in the account of M/s Dipper Investments in the Barclays Bank. The ED said the money was transferred through a person who was not an authorized dealer in foreign exchange and without general or special permission of the RBI.
 
 The charges framed against Dhinakaran in the economic offences court on April 19, 2017 read, “You acquired foreign exchange to the tune of $US 1,04,93,313 from persons other than authorized dealers in foreign exchange and without the previous permission of the RBI and thereby you contravened the provisions of 8(1) of FERA 1973 punishable under Section 56(1)(i) of FERA 1993, and within the cognizance of this court. Secondly, in pursuance of the above said act, you had made a deposit of the foreign exchange in the current account of M/s Dipper Investments with Barclays Bank and thereby lending the foreign exchange to the bank, the person not being an authorized dealer in foreign exchange and without general or special permission of the RBI, hereby you contravened the provisions of FERA.”
 
 A total of six charges were framed against him for violation of various sections of FERA.
 
 In his present petition in the high court, Dhinakaran sought a stay of proceedings in the economic offences court and sought to set it aside saying he was not permitted to advance arguments before charges were framed in the case.
 
 If he had been given an opportunity, he would have pointed out grave errors in the order of framing of charges, he said, adding: “The order of the magistrate is in grave violation of not just procedures under the CrPC, but also violative of principles of natural justice.”
 
 The additional chief metropolitan magistrate chose to hear counsel for the department, denying even one single adjournment and observing that the accused was not willing to argue are clearly arbitrary exercise of power, Dhinakaran said. The magistrate not giving adequate opportunity to the accused to argue on charges, has resulted in grave miscarriage of justice, he said.
 
 Though registered in 1996, the ED could not proceed ahead with the case due to several rounds of litigation. Dhinakaran was also discharged from the case, but on February 1 this year, Justice G Chockalingam allowed a revision petition filed by ED and set aside Dhinakaran’s discharge from the case. It paved way for resumption of the case and led to framing of charges on April 19 this year.
 
 
