The jury is still out on how the ‘one tax one nation’ regime is going to affect India in the long run. Meanwhile, if there is one GST-related issue that’s earning widespread criticism, especially from women, is the categorisation of sanitary napkins under the 12% tax slab. Though the tax on the product has been brought down from the earlier 14%, many are irked that an essential product like this hasn’t been included in the list of other ‘basic necessity’ items which have zero tax — condoms, sindoor, bangles and glass bindis!
Naturally, there has been an outpour of outrage on social media. Recently, even in metros like Bangalore and Kolkata, women from all walks of life — housewives, college students, sex workers — took to the streets to protest. Closer home in Mumbai, too, the issue is simmering, with many city women appalled with the 12 %  .
 
 
 
 Theatre artiste   opines that the government should completely exempt sanitary napkins from tax because menstruation isn’t a choice, it’s a body function that women have no control over. She adds, “If sindoor and bangles come under 0% GST and sanitary pads don’t, it’s quite literally saying that how a woman looks is more important than what she actually needs! Sanitary pads are not a luxury. They are a requirement and if anything, they don’t deserve to be taxed. It’s not something bought out of choice, but something bought out of necessity.” Former beauty queen   believes that any kind of taxation on a sanitary product is like taking a step back. “You can’t say you support women empowerment on one side and on the other, take away the basic dignity from those women and their families to whom every rupee counts. By taxing sanitary pads, you’re making them go back to unhygienic, unsafe way of washing and reusing cloth pads. It’s a bloody damn shame!” she says.
 Echoing Diana’s sentiments is social activist  , who says, “The government has been supporting women issues, promoting gender sensitisation and running campaigns like Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, so I can’t understand why they haven’t made a product as essential as sanitary pads tax-free? As it is, many marginalised women in India don’t use sanitary napkins because they aren’t affordable. The 12% GST isn’t helping in any way to change this. When will people understand that menstruation is an involuntary body process, not a choice like condoms or sindoor for women?”
 
 
  
  Media consultant Kajal believes that though the GST initiative is a good idea in general, she questions the basis on which the items have been segregated under the various tax categories. “Sindoor, bindis and bangles are considered to be the traditional ‘proof’ of marriage and so, making them tax-free will only help married women. I am also married, but I rarely use the above items, whereas I require sanitary pads every month. These are a basic need for both married and unmarried women, so it’s not fair. If the GST committee has put condoms in the 0% category, even sanitary napkins should fall in the same bracket.” Rukshana Eisa, a grooming and 
 etiquette expert, adds, “Statistics say 88% women in India do not use sanitary napkins as they are barely within their purchasing power. For the price of the cheapest napkins, families can buy rations for several days. I think the first step is to come up with affordable, subsidised options for the lower income group, so that they can afford them.”
 
 
 
 One of the biggest campaigns against GST on sanitary napkins, which went viral on social media and supported by Indian celebrities, was #LahuKaLagaan.  , the founder of the non-profit organisation behind the campaign, says that since 2016, they have been trying to get authorities to exempt the product from any kind of tax. “We’re not okay with 12% GST on sanitary napkins. Our battle hasn’t ended and we’re not going to accept anything less than a policy level change. We have made this a mainstream issue and our end goal is to make it tax-free. We will move to court and file a PIL to ask our judiciary bodies to intervene. We have to take this issue seriously. Women can’t choose to stop bleeding,” she states.
 
 
 
 Following the furore on the 12% GST on sanitary napkins, the Finance Ministry released a statement to explain the reason it belonged to the 12% tax slab. “It may be mentioned that the tax incidence on this item before and after GST is the same or less,” reads the statement, adding, “In pre-GST, they attracted concessional excise duty of 6% and 5% VAT and, the pre-GST estimated total tax incidence on sanitary napkins was 13.68%. Therefore, 12% GST rate had been provided for sanitary napkins.”
 Attributing the tax to the cost of raw materials used in making sanitary napkins, it gives a breakdown and states, “As raw materials for manufacture of sanitary napkins attract GST of 18% of 12%, even with 12% GST on sanitary napkins, there in an inversion in the GST structure. Though, within the existing GST law such accumulated ITC (input tax credit) will be refunded, it will have associated financial costs (interest burden) and administrative cost, putting them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis imports, which will also attract 12% IGST on their imports.” 
 In the statement, it also rules out reduction of GST. “Reducing the GST rate on sanitary napkins to nil, will however, result in complete denial of ITC to domestic manufacturers of sanitary napkins and zero rating imports. This will make domestically manufactured sanitary napkins at a huge disadvantage vis-a-vis imports, which will be zero rated,” it added. 
 
