Kolkata: Two days after the CBI summoned Trinamool’s  , it had issued summons to panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee asking him to appear before it at Nizam Palace on Thursday. 

 Later, the minister’s lawyer Manishankar Chatterjee reached the CBI office on the minister’s behalf and sought more time to respond to the summons. “We suddenly got to know about the summons and have informed CBI that Mukherjee is preoccupied with several administrative responsibilities. We have asked for a reasonable time from the agency,” he said. 
 
 CBI spokesperson   said they have received a communication from the minister. “We are taking an informed decision on his request and a new date will be communicated to him soon,” said Gaur. 
 
 CBI sources privy to the investigation said Mukherjee might be summoned after Trinamool’s Shahid Diwas Rally on July 21.
 
 Another Trinamool MP — Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar — has been served summons through email. CBI claimed they tried to call the Barasat MP at least five times but all calls to her were unanswered. On failing to connect, the agency sent her a notice over mail and asked her to be present at Nizam Palace on either Monday or Tuesday. 
 
 Last week, CBI had questioned two other Trinamool Lokh Sabha MPs Sultan Ahmed and Satabdi Roy in connection to Narada and Saradha cases respectively.
 
  The CBI has confirmed that they have received Sultan’s voice sample through Doordarshan, which covered their swearing-ins. Earlier, it was reported that both Sultan and Iqbal had denied permission to record their voice sample, leading the agency to even threaten to move court. 
 
 Meanwhile on Thursday, ED also questioned MP and former union minister Sultan Ahmed for more than four hours. The MP arrived at the CGO Complex a little after 12 noon and left around 5.15pm. ED officials said he was questioned whether he had accepted the money from Mathew and under what the circumstances he had accepted them. The MP had earlier informed CBI sleuths that he had accepted money for electoral purposes but failed to produce relevant documents for the case. ED sources said Sultan was also questioned about the statements made to ED by his brother Iqbal brother a day before. 
 
 CBI sources indicated it has summoned Narada boss Narada boss Mathew Samuel on Friday to help them “identify” some other key players in the Narada sting from the unedited tapes. 
 
 Some other Trinamool leaders, who were seen in the Narada sting tapes, include minister Firhad Hakim, MP Mukul Roy, minister Subhendu Adhikari, MP Aparupa Poddar, former minister Madan Mitra and MP Prasun Banerjee. IPS officer HMS Mirza too features in the tape. Top sources in the central agency hinted the next summon is likely to be issued against another influential state minister, whom they wish to examine next week.
 
 
