COIMBATORE: A 37-year-old   on Saturday staged a sit-in at the district collectorate demanding immediate arrest of her husband for allegedly sexually harassing her for the past 15 years and also forcing her to perform  .   also alleged that her husband Thirupathi had tried to kill her recently for not obliging to his demands, besides physically assaulting her.

 Anitha married Thirupathi on June 13, 2002 and the couple has two sons studying in classes nine and three. She said Thirupathi had been sexually assaulting her since the first day of the marriage. “He always subjected me to  . Since his family was wealthier compared to mine, I adjusted thinking things will change for good. However, things only worsened over the years and he forced me to have sex with his friend and the latter’s acquaintances. Whenever I didn’t oblige to his demands, he abused me,” Anitha, who runs a private finance firm in Sulur, said.
 
 The woman said she had in 2013 filed a complaint against Thirupathi, who owns and drives a goods carrier, with the  . “The police called him for an inquiry and asked him to mend his ways. They also counselled us and sent us home together. He was good to me for a few months but after that he became his old self,” Anitha said. “He again started to bring his friend and the latter’s friends home and forced me into rooms with them. When I resisted, he hit me and threw things at me,” she added.
 
 Anitha said she finally decided to leave her husband a few months back, when he tried to suffocate her using a pillow. “I, along with my sons, moved to a rented house near my office in Sulur. But now my husband keeps coming to the rented house and assaulting me as he wants the boys back at his house. My in-laws also support him,” she said.
 
 The woman said she had filed another complaint with the Sulur police after she left him, but the police refused to take any action citing jurisdiction problems with the Tirupur police as Thirupathi lives there. “The policed had been dragging interrogation for months, making me run from pillar to post,” Anitha said.
 
 From the district collectorate, Anitha was taken to the Race Course police station to file a fresh complaint. The officials also promised her to take action on her complaint.
 
