PUNE: Mayur Dani wanted to hit a permit room near Nigdi on   with his friends on Saturday evening. But the private firm employee had to change the venue after learning about the  's judgement banning liquor shops, bars and hotels along highways.

 Like Dani, many Puneites planning to hit the water holes dotting the highways had a tough time on Saturday - the first day of the implementation of the Supreme Court's order. Several tipplers found the bars closed. A few hotels were open, but did not serve liquor.
 
 The permit rooms and bars were closed on Nagar Road, Satara Road and PuneMumbai highway. The revellers did not like it a bit, though.
 
 “People who want alcohol on the road will find other means to get it. There was no need to infringe in people's lives this way,“ said Natasha R at a mall on Nagar Road.
 
 IT professional Gaurav Vidwans (34) told TOI, “My colleagues and I usually hit a place near Nagar Road after office on weekends. I am not sure if the rule will apply to it, as we do not know if it is within 500 metres from the highway.“
 
 Owners of several bars and hotels near highways were perturbed by the decision.
 
 Neerav Panchamia, chief operating Executive, The ESQUARE Hotel at ESQUARE, Ganeshkhind Road, said his hotel and lounge have stopped serving liquor as   is also considered a “highway“.
 
 “I will lose top-line reve nue sales plus many of my guests, who are regulars, will face inconvenience and will have to shift to other options. We shall also lose money because our fixed costs like staff and other overheads are there. Not the right way to start a new financial year,“ he said.
 
 Panchamia, who is also the president of Poona Hoteliers' Association, said, “The decision has been harsh. The entire Nagar Road has stopped serving alcohol Satur day onwards following the Supreme Court order.“
 
 A bartender at Incognito in   opined, “We haven't been able to serve alcohol to our patrons because of the ban.“
 
 Ganesh Shetty, the president of Pune Hoteliers' Association, told TOI, “This decision has not only affected small hoteliers but also five star hotels, particularly on Nagar Road in the city.“
 
 Shetty said the hoteliers in the city suffered a loss of Rs 3 crore-Rs 5 crore. “The business on weekends mainly hinges on liquor. But the Supreme Court decision has taken away our main business. This will affect the state government's revenue, too,“ he added.
 
 Padmanabh Shetty, the president of Pimpri Chinchwad Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “The business of hotels on Pune-Mumbai, Pune-Nashik and Alandi-Pandharpur roads started suffering from Saturday.“
 
