The mother goddess tradition is a very ancient one in India and sees the worship of the feminine as the divine mother. In this respect, nine nights of the first fortnight of the seventh month of the lunar calendar –   – are dedicated to celebrating the diverse forms of the divine mother as ‘shakti’ or energy, power and wisdom. 

 The tradition is observed with the utmost devotion in Goa, too. And, every year, after the monsoon has receded and autumn has made its appearance, the Hindu community of the state venerates the goddess Shakti in all her myriad forms -- Santer, Bhumika, Mauli and Shantadurga.
 
 About the celebrations in Goa, Kamlakant Tari from Mayem, Bicholim, says, “The nine auspicious nights of Navratri are considered most important for the attainment of spiritual satisfaction. Throughout Goa, temples dedicated to goddesses mark these nights by organizing a variety of cultural and religious activities.”
 
 On a more earthy level, the festival is also about fertility and the monsoon harvest. In some parts of the country this is symbolically represented by a mound of soil in which grains are sown and sprouted over the nine nights of Navratri. 
 
 “The earth is our mother, she blesses us with a bountiful harvest, and that is why we worship her various forms during these nine nights,” says folklorist Sarojani Gaonkar from Copordem in Sattari.
 In Goa, this obeisance to fertility/female energy manifests itself in the form of anthill (‘roenn’) worship where the anthill is representative of the goddess. In Bicholim, too, where Shantadurga is the presiding deity, the anthill is worshipped, a tradition tracing back to the state’s hoary past.
 
 “Every night, for nine nights, a garland is offered to the goddess,” says Ramchandra Gaonkar from Deulwada-Morlem in Sattari. The sprouting of grains ritual is also followed. On the first day, devotees associated with the temple install a copper pitcher filled with water inside the sanctum sanctorum to mark ‘ghatsthapana’. The pitcher is surrounded by mud in which seven or nine types of grains are sown. “On the 10th day, these grains will have sprouted, and married women dress their hair with them,” says Gaonkar. 
 
 The three widely worshipped forms of goddess Shakti in this period are Mahakali, Mahasaraswati and Mahalaxmi, with the Durga form of   being most popular. 
 Clay idols of Durga are worshipped in some temples of the state as also on a community level. 
 
 In some temples of Goa, the idol of the goddess is seated on a decorated swing that is rocked in tune of the beat of folk instruments. During these nine nights, devotees assemble to enjoy the sight of a multitude of lamps being swayed amidst chanting and singing of devotional songs.
 
 Every day of Navaratri sees the goddess decked out differently and placed on a different seat. 
 
 “In the temple of Navadurga at Borim, devotees gather in large numbers to participate in various religious ceremonies. The highlight is the decorated idol,” says Devidas Devari, 68, from Borim.
 In a temple at Poinguinim in Canacona, devotees perform a ritualistic dance called ‘gondhal’ to the beat of folk music. Dancers hold three insignias of deities known as the tarangas and a bunch of peacock feather called ‘pilakucho’. 
 
 With changing times and the influence of other cultures of India new traditions have crept in. For example, the Gujarati dance ‘dandiya’ has immensely gained in popularity among the youth even as the traditional fervour continues to be maintained in the temples. 
 
