Bhopal: Getting treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bhopal is set to become more comfortable with the inauguration of private wards here on Saturday. AIIMS Bhopal director (in charge) Dr Nitin Nagarkar said that the wards would be thrown open to the public in the coming weeks.

 Located on the fourth floor, the private rooms have been handed over to the hospital administration. Patients would be able to pick and choose from around 20 deluxe and another 30 Class ‘B’ rooms. However, those opting for private care facility would have to shell out extra in terms of room rent and other facilities.
 
 Deluxe and B class rooms costs from about Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 per day at AIIMS, New Delhi. A similar room rate policy is expected at AIIMS, Bhopal. As per protocol, four high-security VVIP rooms have also been sanctioned. “The rooms are ready. We are awaiting recruitment of additional staff to roll out quality care. Public can avail the facility in the coming weeks,” said Dr Nagarkar.
 
 During his visit to AIIMS Bhopal, Dr Nagakar also meet senior and junior resident doctors. The doctors are demanding adequate security after recent reports of staff being intimidated by relatives of a patient. “I have been updated about the situation. We have scheduled a high-level meeting. Security measures at the hospital and on the AIIMS campus would be reviewed and further beefed up,” he said.
 
 Sources said that AIIMS Bhopal is likely to investigate the possibility of fungal inhibitory in saline solution used at the hospital. Meanwhile hospital officials denied any possibility of infection. In the recent past, there have been concerns about storage space for indicate medication. Considering the implications of any such possibility, a review of the best practises is likely to take place.
 
 Sources said that two children have died in the paediatrics ward. It has been built with a substantial funding of Rs 27 lakh from Madhya Pradesh government. MP Health department is expected to continue funding of the paediatric and SNCU unit of the premier hospital. Sources said that review of policy for sharing of medication like narcotics injection for pain relief between departments is also likely.
 
 Recently, a fire broke out at the affordable medicines and reliable implants for treatment pharmacy (AMRIT) pharmacy. Substantial stock of the drug store is said to have been destroyed. Sources said that unused cartons caught fire but preparedness of the AIIMS staffers averted a major disaster.
 
 Going by recent plans to improve exterior of the premier hospital, a gardening project to beautify AIIMS is in the works. A lush green campus is planned. Earlier in 2014, former top administration official has announced plantation of more than 10,000 saplings on the campus spread around 67 acres.
 
 A Union government directive had called for reusing treated used water for gardening and landscaping among others. Water treatment process is expected to be installed. Tender for estate development for gardening has been temporarily suspended as the institute awaits to install a state-of-the-art water treatment facility. Sources said that pollution and risk of contamination would be minimised with infrastructure development. 
 
 Concerns have been raised over passing of used water into the sewer leading to Hoshangabad Road.
 
 
