MUMBAI: A high-level probe conducted by  , a  , has found one-time   and now BJP legislator  , a physician-turned politician, guilty of corruption and irregularities in the   led by him between 2004 and 2009. In his capacity as tribal development minister, Gavit was ex-officio chairman of the tribal development corporation which has also been indicted.

  The findings of the  , set up on the orders of the Bombay high court, come as a major political setback for Gavit as he was expecting to be inducted into the state cabinet. CM  , however, told TOI that he was yet to see the report.
 
 A PIL filed in the HC had sought a probe into an alleged Rs 6,000 crore fraud in the tribal development department and corporation.
 
 by Nashik-based Baliram Motiram and Gulab Patil demanding a probe into an alleged Rs 6,000 crore fraud in the tribal development department and tribal development corporation. Their contention was that under the leadership of Gavit, corruption was widespread in the department and the corporation. In view of the allegations, the court appointed Gaikwad to conduct a probe.
 
 In his 3,000-page report submitted to the HC, Gaikwad has found blatant irregularities in procurement of diesel pumps, gas burners, chatai (mats), proteins and mulching animals for tribal families and students. Contracts were given by the corporation without inviting tenders; orders were given for supply of material on rate contract, but the rates were later hiked; several items were purchased without assessing the requirement or number of beneficiaries; and there was a huge difference between the rates at which the corporation purchased the material and the market cost.
 
 When the committee sought original files and documents to look into allegations of corruption in the supply of liquid protein and chatais for ashram schools and Anganwadis, it was told the files were missing from the department. Between 2004 and 2008, the department purchased 7,758 diesel engine sets for Rs 19,200 each when the rate contract stated that the cost of each set was fixed at Rs 15,000. In this deal, there was monetary loss of Rs 14.91 crore, and the sets never reached tribal farmers. Further, it was proposed to procure 1.24 lakh gas burners, out of which 25,527 were never distributed, resulting in a loss of Rs 3.65 crore to the corporation.
 
 Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said if Fadnavis is serious about providing a transparent and corruption-free administration, he should immediately expel Gavit from the party and initiate criminal proceedings against him for cheating and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. “Fadnavis is protecting corrupt BJP leaders. The crucial report of the Gaikwad committee was gathering dust in the CM’s office for the last four months. Besides Gavit, 21 cabinet members of the Fadnavis government are facing charges of irregularities and corruption,” Sawant said.
 
 Forty-eight-year-old Gavit was first elected to the legislative assembly as an independent from the tribal Nandurbar district in 1995. He was then inducted into the state cabinet as minister of state. In 1999, he was re-elected as NCP nominee and took oath as a cabinet member. A few months before the 2014 assembly polls, Gavit was sacked from the NCP after it was found that he was moving closer to the BJP. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, his daughter Heena was elected to the Lok Sabha from Nandurbar, while Gavit was elected to the legislative assembly. Since then he has been expecting to be taken into the cabinet, but now in view of the strongly worded probe report, chances of his cabinet berth appear bleak.
 
 The HC will take up the matter during the next hearing of the case.
 
 
