KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to spend Rs 40 lakh to   made on the roads across the city due to last year’s  .

 The KMC has decided to transfer Rs 10 lakh each to the divisional ward offices to undertake the work pending since the last four months. According to primary estimates, the roads damaged during the heavy rains require Rs 60 lakh for repair.
 
 Earlier, it was decided that since the contractor will have to repair the roads on their own as most of the roads damaged are new and in the defect liability period. Now, activists are fuming over the decision to allocate funds when the contractor is liable to fund the repair work.
 
 Burhan Naikawadi, an activist said, “The civic authorities do not monitor road construction work. The contractors in order to save money do not construct road side drains that help in draining out rain water and thereby avoiding damage. The roads built through the KMC funds get damaged within six months. The roads are not constructed as per the specifications. The higher authorities should enquire the reasons for which the contractors are not held responsible for the road damages.”
 
 After the roads were damaged, the KMC had appointed a panel of experts to audit the damage taken place. However, since last three months the panel has not submitted its report. The officials, however, confirmed that the report will be submitted to the standing committee next week.
 
 Samir Pathan, another activist said, “The roads are constructed through tax payer’s money and now for the repair works the civic administration is again putting the financial burden on the citizens. We are going to demand to make public the details of  , funds utilised and repair works done across the city.”
 
 A senior KMC official, requesting anonymity, said, “The divisional ward offices have been asked to make public the details of the road repair works to be undertaken. The funds are to be utilised for the roads damaged during the rain. The task to gather details of roads in defect liability period is still being carried out through an expert panel.”
 
