PUNE: Eight  , including two puppies, were suspected to have been poisoned in   in Kothrud on Thursday.

 An   (AWB) volunteer received a call from a resident about the dead animals lying in an open plot.
 
 Animal activist Neena Rai, who was the first to reach the spot, said, “I found nine dogs lying in the open area. One dog was critical and could have been saved while the others were found dead. During preliminary findings, we found that the tongues of the doges had turned blackish and foam had come out of their mouths. These are symptoms of poisoning.”
 
 On Friday morning, the police sent the bodies to Aundh Veterinary Polyclinic for a postmortem.
 
 Senior police inspector Raghunath Phuge of Kothrud police station said, “We are yet to receive the postmortem report from the polyclinic. Based on the report, we will decide further action.”
 
 The development has alarmed residents and activists who suspect it to be a planned conspiracy to kill stray dogs in the area. Animal activist Hrishikesh Kulkarni told TOI, “Instead of engaging in such acts, the perpetrators should have helped the civic authorities sterilise these animals to check the population of stray dogs in the area.” 
 
 Some activists blamed the civic body for not creating awareness. They said the poison could have been dangerous for children playing nearby. Such cases do not occur at places where sterilisation drives are conducted by the civic authorities in the city, they added.
 
 Rai said, “If a particular locality is facing any problem with stray dogs, they should complain to AWB or approach volunteers. We will help control the stray dog population.”
 
 Meanwhile, some residents claimed the stray dog population is high in Kothrud, particularly in Kumbre Park, Mahatma Society and Sahajanand Society. 
 
 “Though civic authorities claimed to have conducted a   in the area, it is shocking to see an increasing number of dogs day after day. It has to be controlled for people’s safety,” a resident of Mahatma Society said.
 
 The activists claimed that two months ago two stray dogs were found dead in Kothrud area and it was suspected that they were poisoned.
 
