PUNE: Chartered accountant Ajay Pujari was unhappy with   and lack of “what’s in it for me” component for the  .

 “I am unhappy with the budget … They are giving a relief of Rs 1,000/month to individual salaried employees, who pay taxes on almost everything they consume,” said Pujari.
 
 Pujari’s anger has found resonance with many of the over 7.5 million middle class persons in the higher salary range of Rs 5 lakh-Rs 20 lakh because their hopes were dashed when the FM tabled the budget.
 
 “We discussed this over lunch today at office and my colleagues also feel that the government could have given some relief to the honest taxpaying citizen,” said Pujari.
 
 As per the estimates given by FM Arun Jaitely on Wednesday, such people account for 76 lakh persons; 52 lakh “show” income between Rs5 lakh and Rs10 lakh, while 24 lakh “show” income above Rs10 lakh.
 
 “Of the 76 lakh individual assesses who declare income above Rs5 lakh, 56 lakh are in the salaried class,” Jaitley said, referring to tax returns data from the financial year 2015-16.
 
 Software engineer Dhananjay Jagdale, working with an MNC at Kharadi IT Park, said, “This budget has not brought any respite to the middle class because the government has not given tax exemption, particularly those earning between Rs 5 lakh and Rs15 lakh annually. The budget is more prone to the agriculture sector.”
 
 The middle class feels short-changed also because they have been paying a high amount in the form of indirect taxes like value-added tax and service tax.
 
 “We pay tax on everything — for eating, for buying cars ... But businessmen do not pay taxes and claim depreciation on white goods and vehicles instead,” Pujari added.
 
 Many were unhappy because the budget did not tweak even   exemptions.
 
 Ajay Darawatkar, working with a travel firm, said the budget had failed to meet citizens’s expectations. “Post-demonetisation, people were expecting more relief in income tax and there was a lot of expectations on the real estate front. Budget has not provided concrete provisions on either. The government has received money in banks through recent deposits. Why the benefits are not being passed on to people via tax relaxations? Though there is a mention of affordable housing, people are in doubt if the benefits will reach them. Also, there is no firm announcement on job creations.”
 
 IT professional Swapnil Yeola said, “ New steps for giving relief to home loan borrowers would have helped the middle class.” 
 
 
