Panaji: Penalty shootouts most often leave you with a sinking feeling that the better team lost. The   semifinal won by   against   at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Thursday was one such.
 
  However, salute the 31-time champions who used every guile and experience to sandbag all that the sprightly North East team had to throw at them.
  
  Bengal won 6-5 on sudden-death penalties after regulation time and extra-time produced no goals, making their first final since 2011 and earning the right to play hosts and arch-rivals Goa, 2-1 victors over Kerala in the second semifinal.
  
  After the set of five penalties apiece ended 4-4, the contest went into the second round of sudden-death kicks.
  
  Moirangthem Basanta Singh, not quite recovered from an ankle injury, slotted to the extreme right of Lalmuanawma Muanawma’s goal to win the match after  , under the Bengal bar, lunged to his left to thwart Lalbiakhlua.
  
    may have sealed it but Roy’s role could well have been decisive. The goalkeeper saved twice in the tie-breaker, diving to his left.
  
  With penalties looming, Roy went flat on the turf to block Lalrammawia Rammawia’s grounder that had ‘goal’ written all over it. Moments later, the Bengal goalkeeper showed a steady pair of hands to thwart a nifty free-kick by Mizoram captain Lalrinchhana Tochhawng even as Lalchhuanawma Vanchhawng shaped menacingly to score.
  
  Bengal coach Mridul Banerjee attributed victory to his team’s ability to negate Mizoram’s energetic ground play. “They moved swiftly with their wall-passes involving their midfielders and strikers. In the second half I ensured that we used two central midfieders to counter the threat and it worked,” Banerjee said.
  
  Anand Gurung, Mizoram assistant coach, thought his team played beyond expectation. “I am proud of my players. They played with the same intensity over 120 minutes against the 31-time champions,” he said.
  
  Honours were shared in the first half. Bengal’s  , the lynchpin of the attack going close on two occasions.
  
  Mizoram’s busy midfielder Lalbiakhlua, though, provided the first piece of excitement in front of goal after Bengal defender   Singh failed to clear but Roy parried for a corner.
  
  With halftime beckoning, Lalsangbera Sangbera’s cross into the area was fired wide by Lalrinpuia and the teams crossed over with the momentum much with Mizoram.
  
  Egged on by a group of drum-beating, chanting fans, Mizoram were all over Bengal’s defence in the second half but left one wondering whether they would retain enough fuel in the tank for a protracted battle.
  
  Bengal, on their part, appeared to look for the counter with extra-time on the horizon and Manvir could have struck a crucial goal on the hour if it wasn’t for Muanawma’s splendid save.
  
  Mizoram’s indefatigability confounded all as they called the shots in extra-time and one suspected Bengal were the happier team to take the tie-breaker.
