   always imagined himself working for big brands in the market in future, but destiny had something else planned. After completing his 10th standard, the 17-year old came face-to-face with the entrepreneur in him and founded  . His business model was simple: shopkeepers, businessmen and other companies can now get customized carry bags delivered right at their footsteps with a simple click on their mobile devices. To realize his idea, all   needed was a website and platform to get started, and that is where he got help from  . And since then, he hasn’t looked back. Let’s take a look at the journey of this young entrepreneur at who is not only building a business but also also promoting sustainability with his stylish-and-eco-friendly bags.

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  I always had a mindset of starting something on my own. Since my school time I used to look for start-up ideas which I can pursue after my studies. This very simple seek yet in trend idea of selling customized and fancy carry bags through my own website somehow clicked in my brain. Once I had the idea, all I needed was technology and that is when I came across 
 who took my vision and made a well-tailored website catering to the needs of my startup.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Once my store was ready, I had a lot on my table to be done. Letting people know about the existence of 
  was one of the biggest challenge. Besides, I also had a lot to manage—from receiving an order through my e-commerce store to dispatching them; there was a lot that needed attention. I was trying to do everything myself. My typical day used to be 15-hour long. I used to work, jump on the bus and metro over to my office, market product for hours, and then do administrative work before bed. Even my weekends were filled with studies, performances, and putting up fliers around the city to attract new-age consumers. But now, I have started delegating work and thus, am able to free up my own time to focus on things that really matter i.e. growing my business and building relationships.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Satisfied clients are my biggest rewards. When you progress in the right direction, it inspires and motivates you to do more.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  You’re young, you’re talented, you’re driven… and you have your sights set on being a successful entrepreneur. As you get ready to make the leap into the world of running your own company or owning your business, it is necessary for you to know where you are going and that you need the tools necessary to get there. Stop worrying about the results and keep trying, keep on failing and at the end, you will find yourself on the right path.
 
  
  
  
  Press Release by GetMeAShop via Brandwire.in
