INDORE: A special CBI court on Saturday pronounced life terms to four persons, including main accused Zahida Parvez, for the murder of Bhopal-based RTI activist  .

 Special judge BK Paloda sentenced Zahida, her friend Saba Farooqui, accomplices Shaquib ‘Danger’ and Tabish Ali to life for gunning down Shehla near her residence in the Koh-e-Fiza area of Bhopal on August 16, 2011. Another accused, Irfan Ali, who turned approver, was pardoned by the court.
 
 During the court hearings held over a span of five years, the prosecution had contended that the murder was an outcome of ‘rage’ that Zahida nurtured against Shehla for having an intimate relationship with the then former MLA and   chairman Dhruvnarayan Singh.
 
 Zahida, who had affair with Dhruvnaryan, wanted Shehla out of the equation.
 
 In his 92-page ruling, judge Paloda observed that the killing of Shehla does not qualify as a “rarest of rare case” and thus, capital punishment was not appropriate. He sentenced them to life imprisonment and fines of Rs 1,000 each, under Section 302 of IPC.
 
 As concurrent sentences, the judge also awarded three years rigorous imprisonment to Saba for causing disappearance of evidence. Shaquib and Tabish were also given two years of rigorous imprisonment each for possessing firearm and a two-year rigorous jail term for using it.
 
 Soon after the verdict was pronounced, an agitated Saba accused the CBI of falsely implicating them. “I am surprised… such an extreme verdict was delivered without proper witnesses, without proper evidence,” she said.
 
 Event management executive turned RTI activist Shehla Masood, 35, was shot dead inside her car near her residence at the Koh-e-Fiza area in Bhopal on August 16, 2011. She was on way to attend an anti-corruption rally on the call of Anna Hazare.
 
 Police initially dubbed it as suicide, but after a furore the probe was handed over to the CBI on August 19. The latter registered a case of murder and initiated the probe on September 3, 2011.
 
 After sifting through lakhs of phone calls and quizzing hundreds, the CBI netted prime accused Zahida, Shehla’s old acquaintance, her assistant Saba and contract killers Shaquib Ali, alias ‘Danger’ and his Kanpur-based aides Irfan and Tabish Ali.
 
 CBI compiled clinching evidences of affair between Zahida and Dhruvnarayan Singh. Latter’s relations with Shehla were also unearthed during the course of the investigation.
 
 Zahida had tailed Dhruvnarayan and even maintained a diary carrying detailed account of his dalliances. The CBI had also found CCTV footages of intimate moments between Zahida and Dhruvnarayan.
 
 Judge Paloda observed in his order that the CBI did not have adequate witness evidence to link Dhruvnarayan to the murder and that he was not in contact with the accused when the incident took place. The only fact that came to fore was that he had illicit relations with the deceased, the accused and other women, he said.
 
 The CBI court heard 83 witnesses and held 137 hearings before bringing the accused to book.
 
