SHIMLA: The   has stayed the July 2016 judgment of the Himachal Pradesh high court directing the Centre to enact a law prohibiting  . 

 A Supreme Court bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D   on Friday stayed the operation of the HC’s impugned order and allowed the state government to file instant special leave petition condoning the delay. The court has also issued notice to respondents -- Bharatiya Govansh Rakshan Sanverdhan Parishad, Himachal Pradesh and others.
 
 On July 29 last year, while disposing off a petition filed by Bharatiya Govansh Rakshan Sanverdhan Parishad, Himachal Pradesh, a division bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice   had said that earlier the court had also suggested to the Centre to enact a law prohibiting slaughtering of cow/calf, import or export of cow/calf, sale of beef or beef products, at national level.
 
 During the course of hearing, Centre had filed an affidavit submitting that subject falls within entry number 15 of the State List and only five states and one union territory have no legislation on the subject. The high court had pointed out that Centre had not taken into consideration entry number 17 and 17B of the Concurrent List. 
 
 Stating that it is open for the Centre to enact law at the national level prohibiting slaughtering of cow/calf, import or export of cow/calf, sale of beef or beef products under entry number 17 of the Concurrent List, the high court had reiterated the directions issued by it on October 14, 2015. It had also directed necessary steps within six months.
 
 Stating that there is dire need to construct modern gaushallas or gausadans in Himachal Pradesh to protect abandoned cows, the HC had also directed the chief secretary to ensure release of sufficient funds for construction of such shelters. 
 
 The HC had observed that it was evident from the combined reading of Articles 48 and 51- A(g) of the Constitution that citizens must show compassion to the animal kingdom. The animals have their own fundamental rights. Article 48 specifically lays down that the state shall endeavour to prohibit the slaughter of cows and calves, other milch and draught cattle, it added.
 
