Chandigarh: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to incentivize farmers not to burn paddy straw by giving them a bonus during paddy procurement. The practice is a major health hazard in the state and also the national capital, which has witnessed a cloud of smog enveloping it every winter.

 Referring to his July letter, Amarinder has once again requested the PM for a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal over and above the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy to compensate the farmers for the additional financial burden to be caused by proper disposal of the paddy straw. He urged Modi to direct the concerned ministry to identifying farmers who do not burn paddy straw and pay them the bonus.
 
 Efforts by the state agriculture department to give subsidy on equipment to deal with the stubble and also to set up biogas plants have not borne fruits over the past years. An annual practice to penalise farmers indulging in stubble burning has also not deterred them from opting for the shortcut to clear their fields.
 
 In his latest letter, CM has pointed out that the farmers resort to burning of 20 million tonnes of paddy straw every cropping season because they have little time to prepare the land for sowing the next wheat crop. They neither have the financial resources nor the requisite manpower to manage such a huge stock of paddy straw in about the three weeks they get for sowing of next crop, he added.
 
 The National Green Tribunal (NGT) too has directed Punjab to ensure that no paddy straw was burnt by the farmers. It has also directed that the farmers who burn paddy straw should be penalized.
 
 Amarinder said the state had initiated a number of measures to check stubble burning. These include: subsidy on sale of agriculture machinery for crop residue management, creation of awareness amongst the farmers, monitoring of straw burning through Remote Sensing Satellites and field functionaries.
 
 However, he said, it was neither proper nor fair to penalize the farmers. Further, even use of agriculture machinery supplied on subsidy puts an additional financial burden of Rs 3,000 per acre on the farmers for the paddy straw management, he added.
 
 
