Sixteen international Kite flying teams and 10 pan Indian clubs will be showcasing their skills at the   which will take place from today to January 17 in the city. And the home team, Telangana’s very own   are determined to put up a great show at this festival hosted by Telangana Tourism. The 15-member team has been practising for the last six months. Obviously, technical kite flying is a lot more than just a fun   activity.
“For most people, Sankranthi brings back childhood memories of flying kites on their terraces. But at a competitive level, the sport is serious business. Flying kites requires a lot of skills. Besides agility, and stamina to run around from morning to the evening, it takes a deep understanding of aerodynamics and ability to think out of the box,” says  , president and founder of the Kohinoor Kite Club.
 There are primarily two criteria based on which the teams will be judged on — design and skill. “When it comes to design, factors like size, shading and collage work are taken into account. Skill levels are judged on the basis of altitude and speed. The points are tallied up and teams with the highest aggregate emerge winners,” explains Srinivas adding, “But this kite festival isn’t a contest, we are all working to raise funds for the education of girl children.”
 The science involved in making kites will make it clear why they say “a kite is an aerodynamic vehicle restrained by a tether.” Made with materials like nylon, fibreglass, and even carbon graphite, the modern kites come in all shapes and sizes — boxes, bi-planes, octopus, dragons, spaceships, windmills et al.  , the team’s expert kite-maker, says making kites can take anywhere between two weeks to 90 days! “There is a lot of science involved in making kites. Simpler kites take 15-20 days. But the 25-feet-long windmill kite that we will be flying at the tournament took almost 80 days to build,” says the industrialist whose love affair with kites began 25-years-ago. What started off as a hobby turned into a life-long passion after he attended an international kite festival. 
 Over the years, the city team has carved a niche for themselves with their thematic kites. “In 2013, when we were competing in Delhi, we made a Swamy Vivekananda kite and the following year, we modelled one after  . The global warming kite in 2009 also stood out,” shares Ashok recollecting the club’s masterpieces. Ashok’s passion has rubbed off on his young teammate, Chaitanya. “I wait for Sundays to make kites. I learn more math and science at these sessions than I do at school, and it’s so much fun. I will continue to make and fly kites even when I grow up,” he says. Srinivas is hopeful that with youngsters taking up the sport, the following for it will grow in the city. “Kite flying is an ancient tradition that goes back 2000 years. If taken seriously kite flying can really open up a world of opportunities. Right now, the city has only one team, but it’s such an amazing sport that it’s just a matter of time, before it becomes a rage,” says Srinivas, signing off.
 
 Why do we fly kites during Sankranthi?
 
 Flying kites on Sankranthi actually does not have any religious significance. Flying kites on this particular day (which marks the transition of the sun into the zodiacal sign of Makara or the Capricorn), it is believed that the people receive the benefits of sun exposure. When Sun moves in Uttarayana (the six month period that follows the festival), the sun’s rays are medicinal for the body in healing the infections or the common cold and cough that might be nagging the body over the season of winter and are 
 believed to heal infections and the common cold prevalent in winter. 
 
 Did you know?
 
 
