GURUGRAM: Normal life remained largely unaffected in Gurgaon on Sunday, when the   observed  , triggering tension in other parts of  , including   and  .

 Many senior police officers from Gurgaon were sent to maintain law and order in Jhajjar, Jind and Sonipat districts, while most station house officers, who were initially put on standby, were asked to focus on their routine investigations in the city.
 
 Gurgaon’s sole   site near   saw a gathering of about 150 people, who organised a havan to commemorate the ‘sacrifice’ of the Jat agitators, who lost their lives to police firing a year ago. A huge contingent of security personnel and administrative officials maintained a tight vigil in the area till the protesters dispersed in the afternoon.
 
 Life in other parts of the city moved as usual, so much so that citizens as well as cops, including police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, were seen pedalling at an event in the morning.
 
 Sources credited the administration’s elaborate arrangement for the incident-free day. On Saturday, the police commissioner had ordered deployment of forces at 20 sensitive spots where agitations were held last year. Armed with anti-riot gear, the police took their positions at Subhash Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Cyber Park, Baba Prakash Puri Chowk, Gurgaon Gaon, Bhagat Singh Chowk, Palwal Road, Rathiwas Mod and Khor bus stand since 8am on Sunday. Videographers were also deployed at each spot to record untoward incidents, if any.
 
 Long distance bus services, however, were hit as the Rohtak-Panipat route (NH-71A) got blocked due to a huge influx of Jat agitators from different parts of the state. The administration was forced to divert traffic via Lakhan Majra and Kharkhoda, affecting buses going towards Delhi, Hisar and Bahadurgarh. Sources said while around 25 Delhi-bound buses were cancelled, others were diverted. 
 
 Similarly, vehicles going towards Chandigarh from other parts of the state were diverted through Sonipat, instead of the usual route via Rohtak. Also, the traffic towards Panipat was directed via Sampla.
 
 
