NEW DELHI: Did a top former   office-bearer try to 'twist facts and use the government' in an attempt to get the backing of the state bodies?

 TOI has learnt that an email was sent by a former BCCI honcho to all state associations to build consensus over issuing a notice to the   ( ) for breaching the Member Participation Agreement ( ) with the Indian board. The email said that they had the backing of the government and the decision to send the notice was signed by 23 state associations.
 
 According to a source, the recently-displaced BCCI official approached a top government leader to seek his opinion on the current impasse between the BCCI and the ICC. The senior BJP functionary apparently advised him to follow the natural course of justice, which is to allow the Indian team to take part in the ICC   and reach an agreement with the world governing body without washing dirty linen in public.
 
 Sources said the BCCI official came out of the meeting and called the   (CoA) and said the Indian government supports the extreme stand of the BCCI members. "To this,   told the official that he wasn't legally qualified to talk about cricket," the source added.
 
 Later, the BCCI official individually, as well as through his secretary, began calling all state officials saying the Indian government was supporting the move to pull out of the Champions Trophy. When the Union Minister came to know that his name was being used to build a consensus against ICC, he was furious.
 
 "The BCCI member just gatecrashed and started talking about the BCCI-ICC politics. That member was asked to follow the rule book without hurting the image of the game. But unfortunately, the member completely twisted the facts," a source close to the BJP leader told TOI.
 
 It was also revealed that if the BCCI walks out of MPA it not only means that it will not take part in the Champions Trophy but also not play on the world stage at all from 2017 to 2023.
 
 "Though a few want to pull out of the Champions Trophy and question the breach of MPA, a majority still does not want cricket to suffer," a senior board member said.
 
