CHENNAI: Metro rail is facing a bit of challenge as it races to complete tunnels along the 1.2-km Thousand Lights-DMS stretch under  .

 On Tuesday, cracks developed close to where the road had caved in on Sunday, trapping an MTC bus and a car. The cracks,   officials said, were due to the setting of concrete used to fill the crater that formed on Sunday.
 
 “This was expected.Usually when you pour concrete into a cavity, mild cracks will develop when the concrete sets,“ said an official.
 
 Earlier, the third incident in a span of 10 days, had slowed down traffic during the morning rush hour and sparked panic.
 
 “We received the information around 7.15am after some passersby noticed the crack and alerted police personnel and the metro rail officials,“ said a police officer. Traffic police blocked a portion of the road with barricades as metro rail workers arrived. A team and drilled the road to check if there was a hollow and kept tabs on the cracks.
 
 Another team brought instrumentation and monitoring equipment to keep an eye on the soil settlement. Small yellow markers had already been in stalled on the surface along the alignment of the tunnels to keep a tab on soil.Late in the night, metro rail workers filled the cracks with grout.
 
 “The crater that formed on Sunday spread over 130   and was filled with more than 300 tonnes of concrete. Concrete takes seven to 28days to set. But we opened traffic only a few hours after the cavity was filled and steel plates were installed. So cracks are bound to happen,“ an official said.
 
 Hollowness in the soil underneath could be the only reason behind roads caving in and cracks forming, others said.
 
 While surveying the area and filling unused borewells is part of the preliminary work before building tunnels, there are chances of small hollow patches going unnoticed, they said.
 
 “The tunnels are being built in an area that is one of the oldest parts of the city. There may have been pipelines or some sort of construction done several decades ago and left unused. So, when we drill through the soil and apply high pressure solution, the grout may squirt out to the road surface if there are holes or the soil may sink,“ said a former CMRL official.
 
