NOIDA: Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Trilokpuri in Delhi, is employed as a sanitation worker in Noida sectors 6 & 7. Working on a monthly payment of Rs 14,055, Yogesh says he gets the salary of a sweeper but used to clear clogged drains and pipelines.

 Last year, he was once asked to clear a blocked drain of an export company in F block. The company had diverted a gas pipeline into the drain and it started emitting gases. 
 
 “I did not know that the drain had a gas pipeline diverted to it. I was unprepared and entered it without any protective equipment like mask, oxygen cylinder etc,” Yogesh told TOI.
 
 He recalls how within a few minutes, he fell unconscious and had to undergo treatment in a private hospital in Delhi for nearly 20 days.
 
 Since he is on a fixed pay roll of Rs 14,055, he was not paid for the days he remained off duty despite the fact that he fell sick while on the job.
 
 “I had other   with me, who took me out of the drain. For 15-20 days, I suffered headaches and dizziness. I visited a mental health science hospital in Sriniwaspuri of Delhi and they prescribed me rest. Since I was at home for so many days, I was not paid for the dayoffs despite the fact that I fell sick while on job,” Yogesh said.
 
 While Yogesh said that he longer enters a sewer to clean it, there are other workers who said they have been made to clean the sewer in “emergency cases”.
 
 A 40-year-old worker who works in division I of the health department, said he fell unconscious after entering a sewer in   village of Sector 22 a few years ago.
 
 “I fell unconscious within half-an-hour of entering the sewer. I was taken out by some villagers. Whenever we go inside a sewer, we tie a cloth around our face, nothing else,” he told TOI.
 
 Even villagers of Chaura Raghunathpur remember the incident. “It took place three years back near the ESIC hospital,” said Naresh Kumar, a villager.
 
 When asked why they don’t say no to something like this, Yogesh said they can’t say no to a supervisor and are afraid of losing their jobs.
 
 “We are poor, can't question the supervisor when he calls in emergency,” he said. He has seen some 8-10 deaths, which took place because labourers went inside the sewer without any gas cylinder or other equipment.
 
 When contacted, Yogesh’s contractor   said that they never send any worker inside a sewer. 
 
 “We usually provide all equipment if the worker asks for it. These incidents happen when they don't ask for equipment. We never send workers in sewers too,” he said.
 
