KOLKATA: A 23-year-old youth,   (name changed), and four of his friends were nabbed by cops in Diamond Harbour -for smoking weed -and were produced at a district court for bail.

  (name changed), 20, was also dragged to the police station and her parents were called after she was caught smoking weed with a friend outside her college in south Kolkata. She was released only for her father paid a bribe.
 
 The persons mentioned above are well-educated college students and young professionals, who admit to have tried the ecstasy smoke just for fun and not for addiction.
 
 “My parents did not speak with me for almost a month. As the news spread in college, people thought I was taking drugs. I had confined myself to my room for weeks. All this for just having a puff from a joint that a friend had made,“ said Sohini, currently a student of a popular college in south Kolkata.
 
 Akash, who was arrested two months back, said the cops demanded a huge sum and also threatened to brand him and his friends as drug peddlers when one of them threatened to call a lawyer.
 
 “When we talked about lawyers, they did not let us make a call. Worse, they locked us up with other criminals.We managed to get bail after my father presented a popular lawyer from Kolkata,“ added the 23-year-old. “I am planning to go abroad for higher studies. I don't know if this court case will ham per my career now,“ he added.
 
 Marijuana is the most commonly used illegal drug in India though it is historically bound to faith and mysticism as it had been consumed along with charas (hash) and bhang for centuries. However, implementation of stringent narcotic laws in 1985 made the sale, consumption, production and transportation of marijuana illegal in India.
 
 A senior biochemist in the city said, “Regular consumption of alcohol has a graver toll on health than small quantities of cannabis. It's high time we should understand that those taking cannabis are not criminals and should not be put behind bars. But they should be made to undergo rehabilitation programme to get them de-addicted.“
 
 In 1985, the Rajiv Gandhi government buckled under pressure and enacted a law called the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. It clubbed marijuana, hashish and bhang with hard drugs like smack, heroin, cocaine, crack, and banned them all. The minimum punishment for violation of the NDPS Act is now one year. What happened as a result of this law was that almost overnight the entire trade shifted from grass and charas to smack or worse.
 
 Thirty-two years later, some American states and several other countries across the globe have “shown the way“. Maybe it's time to revisit the law and focus on rehabilitating the victims.
 
