UDAIPUR: She didn’t want to pursue a traditional degree nor was interested in taking up a 9 to 5 office job. During the early 90’s when girls preferred to work in comfort zones,   convinced her parents to let her take a 1.5-year radio course at a Marine college and she became the first radio officer in  .

 In 2012, the Kerala-born woman scripted history by becoming the first woman to captain a ship of the  . 
 
 And again in June 2015, she was the master of the vessel MT   which carried out a ‘48-minute’ dangerous operation and rescued seven fishermen from a sinking fishing boat in the turbulent Bay of Bengal waters. For her extraordinary courage, she became the first woman in the world to receive the award for exceptional bravery at sea from the  , London.
 
 Menon is in Udaipur to receive the prestigious Panna Dhai award by the Maharana Mewar Charitable Foundation to be given away on Sunday. “ I joined the Merchant Navy in 1991 when there were no girls there. But now more than 500 females are serving at various ranks and they are doing the job as efficiently as their male counterparts,” Radhika told TOI. 
 
 Speaking about the difficulties in a mariner’s job, the captain said, sailing at a stretch upto six months and remaining away from one’s family, husband and children is difficult but I excel in swimming against the tide. 
 
 If you applaud her for the brave act, the humble captain says, “ As a seafarer it is my duty to save lives in distress and I only did that. The fisherman we saved had lost all hope to live. They had been surviving for five days in the sea just by sucking ice from the box used in preserving fish. I believe when life seems impossible, it is not the fear that dominates but the pressure to live on that keeps one going.”
 
 Through wave heights of more than 25 feet, winds of more than 60 knots and heavy rain, the captain and the second officer had spotted the boat 2.5 kilometres away, off the coast of Gopalpur, Orissa. Menon didn’t waste a second to take official permission and ordered a rescue operation, utilising the pilot ladder, with life jackets and buoys on standby. It took three arduous attempts in the lashing wind and rain before all seven weak and starving fishermen, aged 15 to 50 years, were brought to safety on board the ship. 
 
 “ I am lucky to be born in a state like Kerala where women have ample freedom to decide for themselves. It is really disheartening that female babies are still killed, not given proper education in some parts of the country,” she sighs. 
 
 Girls shouldn’t hold back , they should muster courage to raise their voice wherever there are restrictions laid for them, the braveheart advised.
 
 
