NEW DELHI:  , who put their   rivals on alert with a thumping 97-run win over  , have shown that investing in young Turks is turning out to be a wise decision.

 The franchisee, in fact, is turning out to be a breeding ground for young and talented batsmen. Even though it is still early days in the tournament, the Daredevils are proving that apart from being one of the best bowling units, their batting too has come of age. In the past, the batsmen have promised much but delivered little.
 
 However, they seem to have learnt their lessons the hard way. Their approach changed during the 2015 auction, which saw them investing in young guns like Rishabh Pant,  ,  , Jayant Yadav and Shreyas Iyer, to name a few. It may have taken them almost two years to fire up but the Daredevils batting looks more solid this season. "We have gained a lot of confidence after the first victory of the season and the winning margin is a big boost for us," Daredevil's TA Sekar told TOI on Thursday. "Delhi has always been advocating youngsters who became stars later on. Players like AB de Villiers and   were picked and they became huge stars within two years. But the success of Shreyas Iyer in 2015 and subsequent release of a few players from Chennai and Rajasthan teams changed our minds to build a team around the youngsters," Sekar added.
 
 Samson's century, which is the first in IPL-10, showed that the young batsmen has regained his hunger. The wicketkeeper-batsmen, who has been on the fringes of national call-up for some time now, took the bull by the horns in the game against Supergiant. Karun Nair and Shreyas Iyer too are waiting to explode. All these youngsters have delivered on the IPL stage after proving their worth in different BCCI tournaments.
 
 After their 15-run loss to RCB, many pundits had said that the Delhi team didn't stand a chance against Pune. Such remarks did not go down well with the team. But unlike  ' Kieron Pollard, who took on former India player Sanjay Manjrekar for his comments on the former's batting, the Delhi players decided to put their heads down and let the willow do the talking.
 
