KARWAR: The notification issued by the environment ministry of the central government outlining Eco Sensitive Zones (ESZ) in six states - Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala - falling under the Western Ghats has stunned the people of   district. 

 The notification issued on Thursday covers 602 villages of Uttara Kannada district. The affected villages are in Karwar (43), Ankola (43), Bhatkal (26), Kumta (36), Honnavar (44), Joida (96), Sirsi (123), Siddapur (103) and Yellapur (83). 
 
 Almost half the population of the district will be affected by the notification which becomes law after 60 days if no objections are filed by the affected states. The notification has attracted the wrath of the common people here but the environmentalists have welcomed it. In Karnataka, the ESZ covers 20,668 sqkm in 33 taluks of 10 districts and in all, 1,553 villages.
 
 The Centre has taken this step after Unesco declared the Western Ghats as a heritage area. If the notification goes unchallenged, the areas under the ESZ will be put under restrictions and developmental work will be affected. No new industries, developmental works, bridges, cement and tar roads and even construction of new houses with bricks and cement will not be allowed.
 
 Subhash Gavuda, secretary,   said: "The government is more concerned about animal rights than human rights. Today, this taluk has 80% forest because our forefathers protected it without the help of any law and they were Nature lovers. Now, this has become a curse for us and the government is out to destroy our lives," he said.
 
 Mohammad Rafeeq, president of the committee, said the notification will ruin the lives of tribals who have lived in the Western Ghats without any basic amenities. "The act imposes a ban on 31 activities including fencing of our own land and grazing of cattle in the forest. Where should we go?" he asked. Many feared that projects like railway, highways and bridges will be affected. 
 
 Environmentalist   said it's necessary to protect the Western Ghats. 
 
 Various organizations have demanded that the state bring pressure on the Centreto exempt the district from the notification. They warned that an agitation will be launched against both governments. 
 
