Bengaluru: Infosys appointed independent director Ravi Venkatesan as co-chairman, a move that is being viewed as a victory for co-founder  , who had asked for such a post in the light of what he perceived was a dip in the governance standards at the company.

 Venketasan, who has been part of the Infosys board since 2011, headed Microsoft India before becoming the chairman of Bank of Baroda. “Ravi will help me enhance the board engagement in supporting the management in execution of the company’s strategy,” chairman R Seshasayee said.
 
 The appointment is being perceived as the company bowing to pressure from several of the founders, especially Murthy, who have expressed their displeasure over matters such as CEO   and COO UB Pravin Rao’s salaries, and the severance package provided to former CFO Rajiv Bansal. Murthy has viewed this as a sharp move away from the `compassionate capitalism’ philosophy that he had made an integral part of governance at Infosys.
 
 Murthy had suggested that former board member Marti Subrahmanyam be made the co-chair, since he was schooled in the core Infosys values. But Seshasayee said that Venkatesan’s appointment had nothing to do with the demands from Murthy.
 
 “We wanted some redistribution of the board. I have been asking for this which will hopefully enhance the bandwidth. This has nothing to do with the promoters asking for any name and I can say categorically that Ravi’s did not come from the promoters. It was the result of our own deliberations,” he said.
 
 However, proxy advisory firm IIAS said in appointing a co-chair, the company was fighting the “wrong battle.” It said Infosys’ board was fighting for credibility against Narayan Murthy’s stature, rather than fighting the more immediate market-driven battles.
 
 “The appointment of a co-chairman also changes the power balance at the board. While it may not undermine Vishal Sikka’s position, it will, in effect, add a layer of complexity to his influencing ability. Functioning could be eased if the board clearly articulates the roles and responsibilities of the co-chairs,” it said.
 
