GURGAON: Sparks from an electricity line, from which a wire  , started a fire in a wheat field in   and destroyed crops over an area of 6-8 acres that were ready for harvest.

 The produce would have fetched Naresh Kumar and his family, who live in Sivadi ki Dhani, a village around 3 km from the field, nearly Rs 2.5 lakh at the minimum support price set by the government. A police case has been lodged against officials of the power discom, though no one has been named. 
 
 “I got a call around 4.30 on Sunday evening that there was a fire that had started from a transformer in the middle of the field where we had planted wheat, which was ready for harvest,” Kumar said. A farmer running a harvesting machine in a nearby field saw the fire first and alerted villagers in nearby Jarau, who informed Kumar.
 
 “By the time I reached the field, over 200 people had already gathered and were trying to douse the fire. We informed the police and the fire station, who arrived only after the fire was doused,” Kumar added.
 
 As the fire spread, around 10-12 tractors were brought from farmers of nearby villages. The tractors were run on the sides of the burning field with ploughs attached so that the fire could not spread to other fields. It took over an hour to contain the fire but the crop could not be saved.
 
 Kumar’s field is completely charred and has remnants of wheat grain. “The electricity department has not come down and fixed this. Are they waiting for another fire?” said Kumar, pointing at a dangling cable swaying with a gust of wind. “The fire spread in the direction of the wind,” he said.
 
 The local patwari, Amit Kumar, who measured the area that caught fire said around 6 acres of land caught fire in total. Kumar says he alone has lost 6 acres, and that two people who were tilling the adjacent fields have also around an acre each. Kumar did not own the land, but had taken it on lease from a land owner to cultivate it.
 
 For six acres, Kumar says he would have yielded 25-30 quintals per acre. This would have fetched him around 2,43,750 if calculated at a rate of Rs 1,625 per quintal, the minimum support price. 
 
 Neeraj Dalal, assistant engineer (DHBVN) of Farrukhnagar division, said, his team was investigating. “Generally, if there is a fault in the line, power goes off, which did not happen in this case,” he said. The SHO of Farrukhnagar police station said an FIR has been registered under section 435 of the IPC (mischief cause by fire or explosive substance).
 
