PUNE: Ravindra Gaikwad’s slipper slur has not just caused ripples in the skies; it has also stunned his own kin. The   of Parliament’s (MP) repeated assault on a 60-year-old Air India   AI 852 (Pune-Delhi) on Thursday has shocked his family members as they had never expected him to lose his cool like this.

 Mirror spoke to Usha, his wife, who had come to Pune for some personal work. “I had never thought that my husband would be hitting somebody like he did in Delhi. For the first time, his violent side has been seen and that was mostly because of the rude behaviour by the airline staffers,” she insisted.
 
 Gaikwad, who represents the  , had come down to Pune from Osmanabad with his family — including wife Usha and son Kiran — for a family function a few days ago. Kiran had recently lost his maiden contest at the zilla parishad polls in Umaraga, Osmanabad. Kiran received Mirror’s call at first, but chose not to comment on the matter.
 
 After the function, his family stayed back in Pune while he decided to fly back to Delhi in the Air India flight on Thursday morning. It was the same flight which he refused to deplane as he was not satisfied with Air India’s service. When R Sukumar, a duty officer from Delhi airport, went into the aircraft to have a dialogue with him, the MP hit the duty officer 25 times with his chappal.
 
 Following the incident, Gaikwad is facing flak from all sections of society for his behaviour, with all major airlines barring him from flying with them on Friday. Delhi police also registered an FIR against the Shiv Sena MP after two complaints — one from Air India and the other from Sukumar himself. He has been charged with attempt to commit culpable homicide and using criminal force with intent to dishonour a person.
 
 But wife Usha would have none of that. “My husband has a fairly long experience in politics. He was member of the Legislative Assembly for two terms and is now representing the Osmanabad constituency in the Lok Sabha. Teaching was his profession and he has been extremely popular in Osmanabad because of his friendly behaviour. Anyone who knows him personally would have not even imagined that he would be doing something like this.”
 
  
  
 
 
 She continued, “When I heard about the incident, even I was shocked. Never in my life have I seen anger get the better of him. I called him up after the incident around 12 midnight to know exactly what had happened. He told me that the Air India staffers were quite rude to him even when they knew that he was an MP. All he was trying to tell them was that he wanted to register a complaint against Air India’s poor service. But, instead of taking down his complaint, they kept on arguing with him. Finally, when they used the name of our Prime Minister disrespectfully in their argument, he lost his cool and hit the staffer.”
 
 Meanwhile, back in his constituency, Gaikwad’s party men brought out a rally in his support, condemning the behaviour of the airline’s staffers by burning the effigy of Air India. Speaking to Mirror, Sudhir Kadam, city unit president of Shiv Sena from Tuljapur, said, “We have decided to support our leader. The fault squarely lies with Air India. They should have interacted with him respectfully. When the staffers kept on insulting him, he lost his temper. We strongly feel that Air India should tender an apology for disrespecting him and our PM.”
 
 At the Delhi airport on Friday, Gaikwad was refused a boarding pass by the Air India officials. When Mirror contacted Air India spokesperson Dhananjay Kumar, he asserted, “The airline had already taken a stand that they would not be allowing him to board any of their flights. So, we did not issue him the boarding pass. Even other airlines came out in our support and barred him from their flights.”
 
