KOCHI: Summer has not begun and yet it seems that water has become the most-precious resource in Kochi. Apart from city residents, hoteliers, hospitals, homestay owners and other commercial establishments have also raised concern over the dwindling supply of water.

 Lack of adequate rainfall and depleting sources have hit the city hard. Citing the recent situation where tanker operators were unable to source water due to the protests from local communities in Kochi’s suburbs, residents and commercial establishments fear that the situation could worsen as the summer begins in by March.
 
 Though the district administration has intervened to facilitate sourcing of water from suburbs, they want authorities to identify areas where there is abundance of water on a war-footing.
 
 “There is a huge demand of water in hospitals. Most hospitals do not have alternative sources for   and all most all of them are depended on tanker trucks. Shortage in water supply would completely affect functioning of city hospitals,” said president of   (Kochi chapter) Dr M Narayanan.
 
 Water is required for sanitation and sterilization process in hospitals. “While we can restrict usage of water by inpatients and bystanders, it would not be possible to curtail usage in operation theatres and other facilities,” he added.
 
 Hinting at an impending water crisis, secretary of   Jikku George said the water supply by Kerala water authority ( ) through its pipeline network was unpredictable.
 
 “Though 95% of homestay facilities have KWA’s commercial (non-domestic) connection, they depend on tanker trucks whenever there is shortage in supply. When the supply through tankers gets affected, it will adversely affect our business,” he said.
 
 He pointed out that while homestays in the city would be worst-hit, those in interior regions would be able to depend on wells, ponds and other alternative sources.
 
 The Association of Approved and Classified Hotels of Kerala (AACHK) said that many restaurants, including five-star hotels, were into rainwater harvesting, recycling and have installed reverse osmosis plants to treat water from bore wells. However, these sources were not sufficient to meet their demands.
 
 Hotels are dependent on KWA’s commercial connection. This water is mainly used in kitchen and for bathing purpose. As the water from KWA’s supply lines are not sufficient, most hotels buy water from tanker trucks. They also buy canned water.
 
 AACHK treasurer Jose Pradeep said, “This being the situation if KWA supply and tanker truck supply get affected, we will be forced to shut down business.”
 
 It is also pointed out that hotels and resorts located on islands and areas close to the backwaters could not use groundwater due to salinity.
 
