NAGPUR: Gaurav Borkar, 19, who was driving the election campaign car of independent candidate Surekha Talvekar, did not have driving licence. Now in custody, Borkar learnt to have pressed the accelerator instead of brake before losing control of the car that crashed into roadside hutments near Vandevi nagar chowk killing two and injuring five. 

 Surekha’s husband Bandu, sitting   corporator, is contesting election from Prabhag 4. It was from the adjoining Prabhag 3 that Bandu had fielded his wife as an independent candidate. The killer car, owned by someone identified as Koche from Jaripatka, was used for campaigning in the stretch between residence of Talvekar family at Garib Nawaz nagar and Vandevi nagar. Clearing the confusion, the cops have claimed that Surekha was not present in the car. 
 
 After the mishap, local residents had manhandled Borkar too. People had come on the streets in protest but police intervened strictly to thwart any flare-ups taking a communal turn. Despite having scaled down, cops are still deployed at Vandevi Nagar to keep a vigil on the situation as the bodies arrived at the residence after post-mortem on Sunday. 
 
 Police, which have now procured custody remand of Borkar till February 15, have also come across another startling fact that there were three minors in the car, aged between eight and 12 years, whose statements too have been now recorded. According to senior officers of   police station, the report of the entire episode would be sent to the state election commission too.
 
 Six-months-old Ashiya Taj Mohd was killed along with her grandmother 60-year-old Islam Bi while five others from two different families were injured after Surekha’s campaign car trampled them before ramming into their hutments damaging them. It has been reliably learnt that Borkar lost control of the car after some children came in front of the vehicle abruptly. 
 
 Senior PI GM Mujawar said stringent 304 Part II of Indian penal code (IPC) for culpable homicide not amounting to murder which attracts imprisonment up to ten years has been applied. “We will find out in the due course of investigation and custodial interrogation as to who provided the car to Borkar and whether he or she knew that the driver did not have licence. It would be also ascertained who owned the car and in whose possession was it,” said Mujawar. The car was seized a day ago. “We cannot rule out possibilities of making more accused in the case depending upon the gravity of their roles,’ he said.
 
 
