LUCKNOW: A day after chief minister Adityanath Yogi took charge, Lucknow   launched an ‘Anti-Romeo drive’ in the state capital and arrested two youths who failed to explain reason for loitering outside a private girls’ school on Tuesday. The police also detained five youths, quizzed 934 others and checked 176 spots in various parts of city on the first day of the drive.

 The police team comprised five policemen, including one sub-inspector and four constables.
 
 Policemen in uniform as well as in plain clothes were patrolling near colleges in  , Mahanagar, Nishatganj, around Lucknow University, IT College,  , Husainganj, schools in Old city and other parts of the city.
 
 In front of a   in Hazratganj, a group of youths on motorcycles fled as police approached. At a girls’ college in  , youths assembled at an ice-cream shop but as soon as police approached they ran away and those apprehended said the ice-cream stall was their uncle’s and they had come to meet them.
 
 In Indiranagar, when police started quizzing young men, they took out note-books and told police they were exchanging notes.
 
 Police spokesperson Arun Singh said two youths identified as Ashok (30) and Dileep (22) were arrested from Nagram as they failed to produce any significant reason for standing behind a private girls college located in Jawahrpur, Nagram. Both were booked under 151 of the CrPc. 
 
 Meanwhile, Hazratganj police inspector D K Upadhayay said, “We detained five youths who were found loitering in front of  . When our teams asked them what they were doing, they gave vague reasons that confirmed our suspicion about their ill intention,” said Upadhayay.
 
 He added that one of the youths said he had come to meet his girl-friend but that she did not arrive, while another said he had come just for a walk. Another boy failed to provide any reason. All three were minors and found standing in front of National PG College around 3pm when police teams had gone to conduct the drive.
 
 On the other hand, two minors were seen staring at girls in front of Saharaganj Mall. Police detained them and later let them off by with a warning.
 
 DIG Lucknow Praveen Tripathi said the drive was being carried out for safety of women and girls. He said the youths detained were counseled and warned against such acts. “In some cases, police teams called parents of youths and counseled them in front of them. The parents were asked to keep a tab on their wards’ activities,” he added.
 
 He said the aim of anti-Romeo squad was not to interfere with personal liberty, or independence of any person. “But police are determined not to spare those stalking girls or passing lewd remarks at going to school or returning home,” he said. He added the police teams comprised women constables/women sub-inspectors and other rank officer. “They had been asked to stand guarded outside the girl/ women colleges and pounce of those found committing crime,” he said.
 
 About identifying such louts, he said, “The body language of a man indicates his conduct and police team had been explained how to act before the drive was started,” he said.
 
 
