HYDERABAD: In an apparent tribute to the scientific ingenuity of   in its centenary year, researchers from Thailand have now found that a bacterial species discovered in and named after the premier educational institution is capable of fighting diseases in paddy and wheat. The bacteria isolated from the campus of Osmania University is also useful in a number of biotechnological applications ranging from food industry to agriculture, and biofuels to nanotechnology. 

 Streptomyces osmaniensis was discovered during 2010 from the soil collected from Osmania University campus. It is one of the two organisms named after Osmania University, the other being Melampsora osmaniensis in 1984. Seven years after its discovery, scientists from  , Thailand, studied the agricultural and industrial benefits of Streptomyces osmaniensis. The study published in the recent issue of the   reveals that S. osmaniensis shows "antagonistic activity" against rice blast, caused by the fungus Pyricularia oryzae. It will also help in the production of bio-ethanol and antibiotics.
 
 Rice blast is a major concern for farmers and agricultural scientists alike as it affects paddy yields by about 30 per cent. Thousands of acres of agricultural fields in Telugu states are hit by rice blast. Farmers at present use chemical pesticides to tide over the problem. Now the bacteria found in the gardens of Osmania University can fight the menace the natural way, without leaving any harmful chemical residues behind. Interestingly, researchers in Thailand about 2500 km away have discovered the benefits of the Osmania bacteria, while their counterparts back home in Hyderabad are unaware of it.
 
 Osmania University is the only institution in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana that has lent its name to at least two creatures. Financial constraints notwithstanding the department of botany in   has thus far successfully established a new genus (Manoharachariella) and discovered over a dozen species. The herbarium of the university boasts of 35,000 specimens of trees spread over 180 families. It also has a collection of about 1000 fungal specimens. It has also contributed to 60 news species of fungi spread over 18 new genera.
 
 Besides Osmania University, Hyderabad has also etched itself in the world botanical and zoological records with a few dozen plant and animal species named after the historic city. Now that the university is celebrating the 100th year of its birth it is high time authorities focussed more on the research and applied aspect of physical, chemical, botanical and zoological sciences for the benefit of the masses.
 
