AHMEDABAD:The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gujarat, on Friday issued a   warning the state for the next three days. Rains are expected lash most parts of the state for the next two days due to a well-marked low pressure region with associated upper air cyclonic circulation over western  , which is likely to move towards north Gujarat and neighbouring areas, said meteorologists.

  Weather experts said Ahmedabad will get incessant rains on Saturday, due to the well-marked low pressure area. Many parts of the city got spells of light to moderate rain on Friday. By late evening, the rain had started pouring in many areas, which is likely to continue on Saturday as well. Due to the rain, many areas in city including Shahibaug, Ashram Road, Chandkheda, Vastrapur and Vasna reported traffic jams in the evening.
 
 South Gujarat and Saurashtra on Friday also got heavy rain. Tankara in Morbi district got 331mm of rain through the day, of which 215 mm in just two hours between 6pm to 8pm. 
 
 Seventy people were moved to safer places in Tankara. Two officers have been sent to Tankara to monitor the situation and NDRF teams have been put on alert. Jamnagar district authorities had to open gates at three dams — Und, Demi and Kankavati — because of heavy inflows from the catchment areas. All 20 gates of Und dam were raised by four feet, while the seven gates on Kankavati dam were raised to five feet. One gate on Demi 3 dam was raised to five feet on Friday.
 
 Kaprada in Valsad got 167mm of rain while Poshina in Sabarkantha got 116mm. Gandhinagar received 60mm of rain on Friday. 
 
 “There is a well-marked low pressure area over   and surrounding areas with an associated upper air cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8km above mean sea level. 
 
 This hyperactive   weather system is expected to intensify further into a depression over the next two days and it will move in a westerly direction towards western MP and Gujarat,” said senior scientist with IMD, Manorama Mohanty. 
 
 Mohanty said that port warnings had been issued for   of south Gujrat and Saurashtra and fishermen were advised not to venture out to sea on Saturday. 
 
