AHMEDABAD: In the coming few weeks eight   will be made operational at different locations in Ahmedabad by the ministry of earth sciences (MoES). 

 These stations will provide Amdavadis pollution forecast and real time concentration of air pollutants at respirable level on their mobile phones. But all this hi-tech intervention will yield nothing unless the state government, without any delay, declares a comprehensive Air Action Plan for Ahmedabad .
 
 On Monday with a view to mitigating the risks associated with air pollution, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) organized a workshop jointly with Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH),   (NRDC) and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology ( ), Pune. Two innovative strategies—city-wide air quality monitoring system and a broad public information and education campaign was announced during the workshop.
 
 The GPCB sources claim that the air action plan, presently in the draft form, is pending approval with the chief secretary and awaits a final nod of the chief minister. Various agencies like the revenue department, municipal corporation, Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), law, urban development, health and other allied departments have already submitted their suggestions to the draft plan. As far as the monitoring stations are concerned, the IITM under the MoES will install the stations at Bopal, Satellite, Pirana, Raikhad, Airport, Gift City, Navrangpura and  .
 
 “Currently, Ahmedabad features among the top 15 polluted cities, according to a WHO report. However, this has been computed using limited information. By coming up with   Information and Response Plan (AIR), we aim to obtain more data and measures to gauge the air quality and extent of population in the city,” said  , director, IIPH-Gandhinagar.
 
 The Ahmedabad AIR initiative will develop ways to share air quality index data and pollution forecasts, which will educate the public and help develop strategies against air pollution.
 
 “With more detailed information, we will be able to come up with effective preventive plans to reduce health-risks from polluted air and impacts of climate change. The combination of Air Quality Index and the new Ahmedabad AIR campaign will make the city, a leader in protecting public health,” said Frances Beinecke, former president, NRDC, who was also present at the workshop.
 
 Times View
 
 In the absence of an Air Action Plan, all efforts to mitigate pollution in the city will go to waste. It was in 2001 that the state government had first come out with an action plan for Ahmedabad when the city was rated the third most polluted city in the country. The rise in the levels of concentration of respirable suspended pollutants has become a major health concern today. Any delay in bringing out the air action plan will only make the situation more worse. 
 
 
