Chennai: Documentary film makers in India are stunned by the imposition of 18% tax on budget films. With GST coming into effect for commercial films, short films, documentaries, news reels and advertising — the cost of purchasing film, equipment and services such as editing, suites would dramatically increase for budget filmmakers, attempting to highlight social issues.

 “Documentary filmmakers already do not have adequate support from the government in terms of subisidies and grants. So increasing the entertainment tax will definitely have an impact,” says Anshulika Dubey, COO, Wishberry, a crowdfunding platform used by film makers. 
 
 Amshan Kumar, who won the National Film Award for Oruththi, says, “Production costs will rise. The camera, lights, equipment are all goods for which we’ll have to pay GST. Also most small-budget films are produced by independent film makers or production houses, which don’t have the luxury of editing suites. Most budget film makers rent out the facilities of established players like AVM Studios and many a time hire their editors — all of which will cost more money.”
 
 Another issue is that documentaries, short films and low-budget feature films usually do the rounds of exhibitions, private screenings and domestic, international film festivals. “They mostly are not released by regular distributors in theatres. But a few still do that for greater visibility - now with GST it will become unaffordable, except for mainstream film makers in Tamil cinema and Bollywood,” says Kumar.
 
 Documentary film makers say Tamil Nadu as a state poses a unique problem as they would have to pay a tax as high as 66% for distribution in theatres. “Movies like Kakka Muttai started out as documentaries but later saw wider release in regular theatres to big audiences. So for such films there will be a severe impact. Despite GST, states still have the power to levy local body tax of 30%. All taxes put together it could come to as much as 66.4% or Rs 66.4 for a Rs 100 ticket,” says K Vaitheeswaran, tax consultant.
 
 In a case of being caught between the devil and the deep sea, there is also the state cap of Rs 120 for movie tickets. “Malls, cinema theatres will see their profits tank. For a Rs 120 ticket, the tax alone is upwards of Rs 70, then the distributors have to be paid, who in turn have to pay the producers. TN should reconsider the levy as movie-watching will become prohibitively expensive, even as movie-making becomes a loss making proposition for producers,” says Vaitheeswaran. The only silver lining for documentary film makers is when it comes to camera equipment. “Everyone has switched to digital film making, so we won’t be paying for higher film costs. Also with the greater availability of equipment most independent film makers prefer to rent rather buy. So on those two fronts, documentaries would be slightly less expensive to produce,” says Sandeep Mohan, independent film maker. “With the audience for online documentaries, short-films, growing — one mustn’t discount platforms like YouTube, which could prove cheaper access and greater reach,” says Dubey.
 
 
