THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday took on CPI state secretary   who had criticised Vijayan's stance on the   Act.

 In a statement issued here, Pinarayi Vijayan said it was sad that those who are supposed to oppose the false propaganda and convince the proponents the actual state of affairs are coming out against the government.
 
 Vijayan's speech last week about the necessity of keeping   out of the bounds of the RTI Act was criticized by Rajendran who had said such restrictions would be against the spirit of the Act for which the Left parties had fought tooth and nail. The CM clarified the context in which he delivered the statement and said he had never referred to the agenda and decisions of the state cabinet.
 
 “During the speech, I have pointed out to a scenario in which the details regarding the security of the country which is part of a Union cabinet decision getting leaked through RTI. Do the critics want imperialist forces to access such crucial docu ments and use those for destabilising the country ,“ said Vijayan. “That doesn't mean that all government documents should beput in lockers.,“ he said.
 
 “It is a fact that some people misuse the Act.But, what I said was that even the misuse could not be a hindrance for the flow of information,“ the chief minister said.
 
 Vijayan said the critics were talking without understanding the nuances. “Levelling criticism that there was an attempt to weaken RTI Act is unfortunate. Comparing this government with the previous one which had even refused RTI questions on corruption cases is not in the interest of Left democratic values,“ he said.
 
 Rajendran gave an indirect reply to Vijayan's comments later in the day. In Kochi, Kanam said acommunist who is fighting against injustices had to say displeasing facts often. He repeated his argument that all cabinet decisions are public documents.
 
 “It is official secret only till the cabinet discusses and take a decision. Afterwards, it is a public document,“ he said.
 
