CHENNAI:   after long-distance buses bound for the southern districts and departing from Koyambedu were diverted from their usual route to directly reach the suburb since 2010. With passengers from the city’s peripheries converging in large numbers,   emerged as a major boarding point on  . But soon it became a nightmare for traffic policemen as fleets of the state-owned transport corporations, omnibuses and regular vehicles piled up causing massive traffic jams during peak hours.

 Last September, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority chose a vacant plot, about 6km from Perungalathur, on the national highway to de-congest CMBT. Though the proposed satellite bus terminus on the 88-acre plot at Kilambakkam would reduce volume of traffic at Koyambedu, Perungalathur is unlikely to get any relief. Passengers alighting at the terminus would take feeder services to reach different parts of the city and the density of vehicles passing through Perungalathur would remain the same as would the congestion on road.
 
 But, town planners say a shorter bypass can make a difference.
 
 A N Sachithanandan, former president of the Institute of Town Planners India, said the circular bypass would divert vehicles bound for Tambaram without entering the junction at Perungalathur. “The bypass road will help in easing the traffic. It is a workable option to link Perungalathur and Tambaram with an alternate road avoiding the junction. Planning authorities must consider it as the bypass will also help the regular users,” he said. Land acquisition may not be a problem as adequate space is available in the vicinity of Perungalathur, and the road may not affect the settlements nearby.
 
 The bypass can cut travel time between Perungalathur and Tambaram during peak hours by 30 minutes, a travel that can take up to one hour when traffic is heavy. Also, almost 50% of the vehicles flooding the GST Road will go off the highway and enter Tambaram via the bypass. According to the National Highways Authority of India, Guduvanchery, located 10km from Perungalathur on GST Road, has an average vehicular density of about 80,000 every day. Three government transport corporations operate 1,200 buses from CMBT that pass through Perungalathur and add up with a slew of services to different parts of Tamil Nadu originating from Tambaram.
 
 V Vaidyaraman, a resident of Guduvanchery said the NHAI must expedite the proposed elevated express corridor between Perungalathur and Chengalpet to ease the traffic. “This could come in handy as long-distance vehicles driving over the elevated corridor and other vehicles can use the road beneath to reach their destinations in the suburbs,” he said.
 
 
