Shimla: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) commenced second phase of its campaign ‘Hisab Maange Himachal’ on Sunday by releasing two video series against Congress MLAs under the names of ‘Vidhayak Ji Jawab do’ and ‘Main Hoon Himachal’ at Bilaspur in the presence of leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal, union health minister J P Nadda, state president Satpal Singh Satti, party’s election in-charge and union minister Thavar Chand Gehlot, state in-charge Mangal Pandey and Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur.

 Addressing the media persons, Dhumal said that first phase of Hisab Mange Himachal has garnered state-wide support and the second phase is being rolled out with the launch of two distinct video series aimed at leveraging public discontent against the Congress government in the state into public action.
 
 He said that ‘Vidhayak Ji Jawab do’ would feature 36 video based on chargesheets against 36 Congress MLAs where citizens are demanding accountability from their MLAs for governance failures and unfulfilled promises of last five years. He said these video chargesheets expose the reality of the Congress in Himachal.
 
 Dhumal further said that the Congress MLAs have been sleeping over their political positions and as a result, no development work had taken place in their constituencies. It is shocking that a lot of these MLAs have ministerial berths in the cabinet and many others have been designated as parliamentary secretaries. He listed water shortage, dilapidated state of roads, inadequate transportation services, lack of staff in schools and health institutions and an atmosphere of insecurity as some of the problems ailing in the state under Congress rule.
 
 Regarding ‘Main Hoon Himachal’, video series, Dhumal said that this is a campaign to bring out the issues of the residents of Himachal Pradesh through reel and problems that they face every day. These videos bring out the insensitive and incompetent tenure that Congress has had in the state. Dhumal said that various mediums would be used to take these videos to the people of Himachal Pradesh including Facebook, YouTube and Parivartan Raths. He said that there are near 7,000 WhatsApp groups made by the IT Cell of the BJP and these groups would also be leveraged to take the message of these videos to the residents of state.
 
 He further said that Himachal Pradesh today is gripped by various kinds of mafias operating under the patronage of the Congress government. He said that there is a parallel “mafia government” running in the state. Apart from playing with the lives of the state, the mafia has devastated the state’s economy.
 
 He said that money that should have been spent on the development of Himachal has found its way to the pockets of state MLAs. He said that a number of youth in the state are unemployed and women across state feel unsafe today. He said that farmers have been at the receiving end of the worst that the Congress government had to offer.
 
 Dhumal said it is a cruel joke that maximum selling price (MSP) for apple has seen an increase of 75 paise only in the last 5 years. He said government employees have had to knock on the court’s doors to get their pensions. Anganwadi workers who work at the frontlines of rural health care have been denied fair compensation for their indispensable services, he added.
 
 
