AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay   on Tuesday issued notice to the state director general of police and the Beed  , asking them under which provision of law or power they conducted a raid on the residence of Beed’s junior town planning officer on November 18.

 Sayyed Salim Sayyed Yaqub, the junior town planner who was posted in Parli Vaijanath for municipal election duty, had to bear the brunt of police and election officials’ over-enthusiasm that led to a raid on his residence following a “secret information about presence of Rs 1 crore to Rs 1.5 crore in his house” during the municipal poll process in Beed. The information eventually turned out to be a hoax.
 
 Sayyed had earlier approached the Beed  , district superintendent of police and police inspector for initiation of an inquiry, including criminal prosecution of the officials and policemen concerned.
 
 When no action was taken, the petitioner approached the high court through lawyer   seeking compensation and action against the officials, saying that they “made hell of his parents’ and family members’ lives for hours on November 18”. 
 
 The high court had on December 15, 2016 issued notices to five respondents, including the state government, inspector general of police, district collector, Beed SP, and the police inspector, Beed city. 
 
 “The police inspector filed an affidavit that following a secret information, the police conducted the raid on the town planner’s residence,” said Thombre.
 
 When the petition came up for hearing on Tuesday, the bench comprising Justices S S Shinde and K K Sonawane, while placing the next date of hearing on March 23, ordered the DGP and the Beed SP to file an affidavit explaining that under which provision or power under the law, the raid was conducted, said Thombre. 
 
 The petitioner said that on 18.11.2016, Vilas Mane, returning officer (for Beed municipal council election) and eight others, including some election officials and policemen, accompanied by 15 to 16 people barged into his house and searched it. 
 
 “During the raid, they abused the petitioner’s family members, including his aged parents, while confining them to a room illegally. The following day, some newspapers reported that his house was raided but nothing was found. However, that has already resulted into maligning the petitioner’s image,” the lawyer had pointed out to the court.
 
 The officials also did a panchanama that stated: “They received secret information that an amount of Rs 1 crore to Rs 1.5 crore was kept in the petitioner’s house. On the basis of that secret information, the squad entered the house, searched it, but nothing incriminating article or money was found.”
 
