HYDERABAD: Land grabbers are having a free run in the city, usurping property with fake documents while police keep their eyes wide shut. Over the last year alone, over 200 cases of land grab were reported in three police commissionerates — Cyberabad, Hyderabad and Rachakonda — where land worth crores is at stake. Police privately admit that land-grab cases have risen manifold and the situation is spinning out of control.The arrest of five land sharks by the   on Monday was just a tip of the ice-berg. The gang members were creating fake land documents of old plots, whose owners were untraceable.

 The Rachakonda commissionerate has the worst record in cracking cases, with an abysmal 35% solvency rate. Cyberabad fares much better with 60% and Hyderabad with a 45% record. The newly formed commissionerate comprising Bhongiri, Yadadri and Chottupal has been the happy hunting ground of mafia, with land prices soaring around the IT hub.
 
 “Given that it is a developing area abutting the IT corridor, many purchased lands in 1980s and 1990s. Now, the real estate prices are booming and land-grabbers are trying to cash in on the opportunity,” said Rachakonda Commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat.
 
 Deepak Kant Vyas, a US-based NRI from West Marredpally, was shocked to learn that 24 acres on his name was taken over by unknown persons. The case, which came to light in November last year, is one among many that brought to light murky dealings of land mafia.
 
 The businessman, who moved to the US in 1995, had not checked the status of his land in past few years. On discovering that Deepak was abroad,  , a realtor from Chotuppal, engaged three goons, Sambaiah, Yadgiri and Bala Chary, to churn out fake documents, passbooks and title deeds for the land parcel.
 
 Police say many of these miscreants create fake stamp papers and stamps of   and sell property which is legally in someone else's name to unsuspecting people.
 
 It is not just local police. Even Overseas Security Advisory Council of United States Bureau of Diplomatic Services, asks it’s nationals to tread with caution, while entering a land deal in the city.
 
 In a recent security advisory on May 2016, it said: A growing number of foreigners have fallen prey to property scams after being convinced to invest in property with an Indian partner. Rarely do partnerships survive. The trend has the Indian partner using a pretext to make a claim on the entire property, generally after construction or restoration is complete or to offer the foreign partner an inadequate sum to buy out their share. Lacking knowledge of Indian legal system to fight for what is rightfully theirs, the foreign partner often loses considerable sums of money.
 
