CHANDIGARH:   and graphic designer  , who is based in London cannot fathom how she ended up loving India in her first visit itself and cannot wait to come back. 

 All set to complete almost two months of travel shortly, Torre was seen conducting a two-day creative workshop with the second and third year students of  , Sector 11 called ‘India Through My Eyes, Through Your Eyes and Through our Eyes’. Talking about the architectural and picturesque possibilities of India through the lens of multiple perspectives belonging to foreign and domestic travellers and illustrators, she got candid with TOI and said, “I cannot believe how beautiful this country is and I cannot wait to get back. Before coming here, my friends told me that India is amazing and you would want to go back but I just thought there are so many places that I want to see on this planet and I think one visit is enough but this country is so deep and intense. There is so much to see here. I would definitely want to come back.”
 
 The workshop was organised by   in association with Chandigarh College Of Architecture. 
 
 The two-day interactive project consists of a series of visual communication exercises portraying different points of view of India and focusing on themes such as places, traditions, relationships and contemporary art and design. 
 
 Touching upon the theme of ‘relationships’, the students were asked to bring a picture of someone close to them and to Torre’s surprise, most of them had brought a picture of their mother, sister or other family member explaining the concept of having deep family ties here and its importance, which stood as a perceived contrast to the western world. In another exercise, the students were asked to create a scene of a street in India and it was found that the students focused much more on the facial expressions and details of a subject in the picture rather than the scenery behind it, thus making a native’s perspective with his surroundings more apparent. 
 
 Appreciating Chandigarh in all its beauty Torre said, “Since I am French and Chandigarh was designed by a French architect, I have noticed a lot of similarities pertaining to the ‘Brutalism’ architecture which is seen a lot in both London and France. I have just come back from Rajhasthan and Varanasi and as much as I loved them artistically, this part of India (Chandigarh) feels much more organised, modern and progressive. Everyone is driving in a line here, it is safer, cleaner and truly mesmerising.”
 
