NEW DELHI: While the   has been a springboard to limelight for young Indian players, for domestic umpires, IPL-10 is proving to be the other way round. With several poor decisions in the first week of the competition itself, the umpires have been in the news for the wrong reasons. It has also exposed the lack of depth in this department in the country.

 With only four   -  , Nigel Long, Marais Erasmus from abroad and India's S Ravi - slated to officiate in this IPL, a much lower number than what previous IPL editions used to have, domestic umpires have got a big opportunity to make an impression. However, the start has been anything but promising.
 
 "Over the past three years, elite umpires have been reluctant to come for IPL as it is a very hectic, high-pressure tournament. Besides, this year, the Champions Trophy will be staged two weeks after the IPL," a   official in the know of things told TOI. "To err is human. The best of the lot can make mistakes. Even Ravi and Shamsuddin, two of India's best, have committed howlers in the IPL. Yet, they should have been given more matches than the other domestic umpires. But the matches have been distributed equally among the umpires," the source added. t Significantly, the umpires I have had a bad time right through v the 2016-17 domestic season with e several bad calls dotting the Ranji Trophy and the Vijay Hazare Trophy which ended just before b the IPL. Several domestic teams I have been distinctly unhappy s with the quality of umpiring. As it has fought a long-drawn court battle over the past two years, the board has struggled to monitor its system. The services of former umpire  , brought in to f work with domestic umpires, were e done away with o last year. But a proper review of d the situation is yet to happen. "We have taken note of the standard of umpiring. Actually, IMG allots the umpiring duties. The various sub-committees are not operating since the BCCI has been asked to abide by the Lodha recommendations. Currently, the BCCI is busy about its representation at the ICC. Once these matters are resolved, we will sort out these things," a top BCCI official said.
 
 The BCCI had to withdraw   from the ICC's panel of international umpires after frequent complaints were made against him by teams including India. The reason cited then was that he was fast-tracked without much of an experience and proper credentials. However, it's felt that the umpires coming through the ranks don't spend enough time on the ground. "Most of the umpires read up books and write the exams very well. They don't do the hard yards of standing in local matches to stay in touch when they are not on BCCI assignment," said the official.
 
 
