NEW DELHI: In a snub to   ( ) for raising unsubstantiated 
  (EVMs) in the recent 
  , the   said on Sunday it was fully satisfied with their tamper-proof working and it was for AAP to introspect why its performance could not match its expectations.

 The  , in a letter to AAP national secretary Pankaj Kumar Gupta, said it was “unfair” on part of his party to attribute its “unsatisfactory poll performance... to the alleged tamperability of EVMs”.
 
 The poll panel set aside AAP’s demand, made in a letter dated March 25, for crossverification of results for all polling booths in Punjab where the voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) was deployed, with the paper trail.
 
 While AAP had argued this would ensure “the cloud that is today looming large over the use of EVMs is settled”, the EC cited the law to state that with the results declared, AAP could only verify data of votes cast by filing an election petition in the relevant high court. The EC made it a point to remind AAP that no credible material was brought to the knowledge of the authorities during mock polls held ahead of actual elections in Punjab or at the time of polls to show alleged tampering of EVMs. 
 
 The EC’s verdict on AAP’s demand to verify the paper trail in Punjab came at the end of a strongly-worded, pointby-point rebuttal of questions raised by AAP on reliability of EVMs. What made the snub even harder was the EC’s strong disapproval of AAP’s interpretation of Supreme Court’s observations in   vs Election Commission of India (2013) case relating to EVMs.
 
 In its letter to the EC, AAP had said, “It is keeping in view the serious consequences that ensue when the election process is indicted/rigged that the SC... emphatically recognised that the incorporation and implementation of a system of paper trail in EVMs is an indispensable requirement of free and fair elections.”
 
 The EC rebutted the argument and said the SC had never cast any aspersion that the election process was inderdicted/rigged by use of EVMs. “The commission strongly objects to this wrong and imaginary extrapolation of... (the) order. This may please be noted as a responsible political party,” it told AAP. AAP has repeatedly questioned the reliability of EVMs. It alleged tampering during the Delhi assembly polls and has made similar allegations in Punjab.
 
 
  
 
 The watchdog said AAP’s argument that EVMs had been discarded by most democratic polities for the traditional ballot paper system did not hold good for the EC’s EVMs as they were not comparable to machines of other countries. While systems used abroad have internet connectivity, making them vulnerable to hacking, the ECI-EVM is a standalone machine with a one-time programmable chip.
 
 
 
 
