AHMEDABAD: If you are heart patient, you have been turned a beggar for choice. With the capping of stent prices at Rs 17,000 and Rs 30,000 respectively for basic and drug eluting stents, companies have withdrawn high-quality   from hospital inventories, leaving patients who can afford the best treatment in the lurch.

 Vijay Gadhvi, 68, a retired senior government official who got operated for a heart blockage at HCG Hospital on Sunday felt the stent price capping was discriminatory as it robbed him of his right to choose the best treatment for himself. “Government policies should be pro-poor but they cannot discriminate against the haves,” said Gadhvi, who had to make do with a second generation stent as better stents had been withdrawn.
 
 Cardiologists across the board felt that while price-capping was a good decision from a socialist point of view, it has robbed patients who can afford them of the right to choose.
 
 “The blanket price cap on stents, irrespective of their quality, will serve as a major setback to the quality of care to heart patients. The best quality devices will vanish from the market; new ones will not be launched. In one stroke, the government has pushed cardiology in India back by a decade,” said cardiologist Padma Shri Dr Tejas Patel.
 
 Senior cardiologist Dr Sameer Dani said the decision will help in uniform pricing of cardiac care packages, at around Rs 1.2 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh. He recalls how the price cap proved a boon for his patient Maqbool Vora, who had a budget of only Rs 10,000 as they could bargain for an American third-generation stent which costs Rs 60,000 and get it for Rs 30,000. “A large section of poor patients will benefit. Having said that, affluent patients and doctors will find themselves at a disadvantage as while results of second generation stents are scientifically as good as the hi-tech stents, they do not have maneurverablity of third and fourth generation stents to treat complex, advanced blockages,” said Dr Dani.
 
 “Non-availability of advance stents will be a setback in treating patients with acute and calcified blockages,” said cardiologist Dr Jay Shah.
 
 Dr Milan Chag, city-based cardiologist, said that not only doctors but also patients will suffer. “Third and fourth generation stents are more flexible than first and second generation stents, especially in cases involving calcified arteries. Rigid stents may also injure parts of the artery. Thus, the safety of patients is compromised,” Dr Chag said. He also said that the requirement for blood thinning medicines is higher when using older stents.
 
 Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, chairman and managing director of a heart hospital in Rakhial said a reasonable price for stents is welcome, but the narrow capping mechanism will lead to the Indian market missing out on newer products developed by multinationals.
 
 
