LUCKNOW: The   reported at   on July 12 may not have taken place if recommendations of experts in 2007 to have a   had been followed. Now, that the   of the Assembly premises has been exposed, top officials are revising the finer points of the recommendations.

 In 2007, the committee headed by Anup Chandra Pandey, the then principal secretary of the secretariat administration and estate department (now additional chief secretary, finance) headed a three-member committee to prepare a detailed report for a foolproof security plan for Shastri Bhawan, the premises of the CM office, and the Vidhan Bhawan.
 
 On the basis of the report presented by the panel, an exclusive route and elevator were provided for the then CM Mayawati to reach her office on the fifth floor of Shahstri Bhawan. However, this was neither used by her successcor Akhilesh Yadav, or the present CM.
 
 Formed on the recommendation of the then cabinet secretary Shashank Shekhar Singh, the committee comprised the then home secretary Javeed Ahmed and senior IPS officer in charge of Parliament security, Sandip Solvanke. They recommended a 500-metre ‘total access control’ around the state Assembly using boom barriers and other security measures. 
 
 The committee had also asked for a unified command for entry and exit in UP Assembly and in the secretariat of the Speaker. It also recommended to shift some offices out of Vidhan Bhawan, on the pattern of Parliament where ministers and IAS officers are allowed only when Parliament is in session. Emphasis was to de-congest the Assembly building and restrict movement of vehicles and individuals. The plan was to keep all cars on the premises parked underground. But that never happened.
 
 On Pandey’s recommendations, a separate parking lot was built for two-wheelers opposite gate number 7 and underground parking was constructed for four-wheelers. “Arrangement for parking cars underground was never followed, so there is chaos on the premises most of the time,” a member of the committee told TOI.
 
 Another important recommendation of the security committee’s plan was to take over the private buildings around Shastri Bhawan (Annexe) and Vidhan Bhawan and turn it the entire area into a high security zone. The private buildings were taken over but the SP government restored them to their owners.
 
 The committee had also floated tenders for purchasing security equipment, including baggage scanners, metal detectors, hammers and boom barriers but by the time contracts could be allotted, the government changed in 2012 and the report of the committee was abandoned. 
 
 PLAN PROPOSED
 
 Shifting private buildings around Annexe, Vidhan Bhawan
 
 Total control of access to Vidhan Bhawan and CM’s office
 
 Boom barriers on routes leading to the two buildings
 
 All cars to be parked underground
 
 Exclusive route and elevator for CM to reach office 
 
 
