CHENNAI:   will become an   Free (ODF) city by next year, said a senior state government official here on Monday. Four districts including   would be declared as ODF by March 2017.

 Briefing newspersons on the sidelines of the fourth international faecal sludge management conference, state municipal administration and water supply department secretary K Phanindra Reddy said that some wards in the city are already ODF. "There are wards that require some more intervention to make them ODF and that will go on till 2018," he said. For instance, strategic spots like shopping areas in south Chennai, where toilets are not available, would be identified to set up these facilities.
 
 Noting that one lakh toilets have been constructed as part of the   Mission (SBM) across  , Reddy said 1.2 lakh more would be built. In a bid to address the critical issue of maintenance, he said contractors will be paid based on their performance in maintaining the facility, for which parameters are drawn. 
 
 The push to improve the standards of the city's hygiene comes in the backdrop of the union government envisaging the completion of SBM by 2018, a year ahead of the initial target of October 2, 2019, in urban areas. The national programme aims at augmenting safe sanitation, and clean and litter-free villages, towns and cities across the country.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Union urban development joint secretary Praveen Prakash said that the nation was looking up to Chennai, after Mumbai was declared an ODF city. "About 500 cities across the country of the total 4041 cities have become ODF... We will achieve ODF urban India by October 2018 almost a year before we promised." He also emphasised the need for spot fines in a phased manner for people indulging in littering.
 
 Meanwhile, four districts including Coimbatore in the state would be declared as ODF by the end of March 2017. Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation secretary   said 70% of rural pockets in Tamil Nadu have been brought under the SBM (Gramin) coverage. He held a review meeting with state government officials over the progress of SBM. About 3.4 crore toilets were constructed under the programme throughout the country, he said, noting that the deadline for achieving ODF in rural areas would remain as 2019. 
 
