AGRA: Exit polls of one kind or the other might have already started coming out after the first phase of   on Saturday, but for the bookies, all bets are still off. Most of them are still not sure who the winning candidates in the nine constituencies here, or in the rest of western UP, will be. However, they remained hopeful that the final odds and favourites would be listed soon.
 
  The first sign that the pre-poll assessment by the bookmakers would change was the record 63.94% voting in Agra district, and the general higher than average turnout in the rest of the region.
  
  According to market watchers, even experienced bookies are in a state of confusion and are frantically crunching the numbers and looking at political trends after the end of voting on Saturday. Those who have seen and called bets on numerous elections in the past are not detecting possibilities of big margins of victory by candidates, said a source.
  
  “Bookies are contacting their informers to get fresh insights. Some of them are even discussing the political climate and the fate of the candidates in public. The truth is, nobody knows what is going to happen, but as far as the constituencies of Agra district are concerned, we are told to expect surprises,” another source familiar with the bookies said.
  
  In the 2012 assembly election, BSP candidates won 6 seats out of 9, while the BJP and the SP won 2 and 1 seat respectively.
  
  In bookmaking, candidates who are priced lowest are those with the highest probability of winning. For instance, a candidate of a certain political party who is fighting from Agra North constituency is priced at 20 paisa. Another candidate’s rates are being finalized, a bookie revealed. While a few candidates in Agra North, Bah, Etmadpur and   have had their “rates” finalized, most others are still being analysed.
  
  “This just proves the amount of uncertainty in the air. Nobody is willing to go out on a limb and make a prediction in this election. For now, it is just wait and watch, regardless of what anyone says. Some of the bookies are actually very good at calling winners. Several of them have a lot of experience from years of watching election campaigns and political maneouvres. If even these people are not certain, you can imagine the situation,” a source added.
