BENGALURU: As   intensifies its battle with  , its R&D centre in Bengaluru is providing some its crucial firepower. Several of its most important technology platforms — those that ensure its prices are the best, its customers' online carts carry items that can be efficiently delivered, and products are delivered from places at the lowest possible logistics cost — are being developed here.

 Walmart's CTO for US stores and e-commerce Jeremy King told TOI that one of the first technology teams that the company built here was to do the competitive analysis of prices. "They have been really successful. Now we are building the new-generation version of this. We have acquired a number of companies recently ( ,  ,  , Moosejaw) all of which have added millions of new products. So we have to scale the system," he said.
 
 The $486-billion company's traditional promise has been that they offer the lowest price on any product. That requires the company to keep a close track of prices offered by every competitor, both online and offline. "Just collecting the data from all the competitors is itself a huge problem. Collecting that and matching with our prices is a huge machine learning problem. Some people might be selling it in packs of, say six, so we have to figure out what the price of one is. And do this across millions of items," King said.
 
 Online publication Recode wrote last month that Amazon has a similar algorithm one that works to match or beat prices from other websites and stores. It finds the lowest price per unit or per ounce for a particular product, even if it is a huge bulk-size pack, and applies it across the same type of product on Amazon.
 
 Over the past year, Walmart has stepped up efforts to counter the $136-billion Amazon. Last summer, it bought online retailer Jet.com for $3 billion. Since then it has made acquisitions of several smaller online players. In January, it announced a free two-day shipping to home and stores on more than two million items, provided the customer spends at least $35. Walmart established its Bengaluru centre five years ago, and it has already grown to 1,200 people, with 500 being added in just 2016.
 
 King said Walmart's sourcing engine is also built in India. "If I'm in California and I order an iPhone case and a glass, where should I ship it from? The iPhone case is in California, but the iPhone case and the glass are in Colorado. So should I ship those in one box? And if you have ten or fifty items in your basket, and there are trucks coming from such and such places, it's about as complex a machine learning project as you can get," King said.
 
