On a very cool and cloudy Thursday, all of Bengaluru’s   lovers were assembled at the MLR Convention Centre, JP Nagar to take part in the 13th edition of  . With over 250 eager participants in the mix, the competition was divided into two rounds, from which 50 were selected for the final round.
There was interesting mix of age, professions and expertise among the participants. Right from eight-year-old Neha to 75-year-old Ramamurthy K, there were students, engineers, entrepreneurs, homemakers and even retired armymen who took part in the competition. Sarvesh Raju, a software professional present at the event, said, “I love everything to do with math and numbers. I've been solving Sudoku for a long time now, and can say that it's like an addiction for me. I don’t do so well in competitions because I enjoy the process of solving them, more than merely reaching the answer. But I’ve decided to solve it more competitively, so this is baby steps for me.
 Lakshmi D, who is now a homemaker after her retirement, says, “Solving Sudoku gives me something to do at home, while most of them are away. I usually solve 5-6 puzzles a day, and I like to think that it helps my mind stay active.”
 The key to cracking the final round not only relied upon speed, but also accuracy, which is why all the participants were advised to double-check their submissions carefully, and not just rely on giving them at the earliest.  , 37, was adjudged the winner, while  , 37, and  , 36, finished as first and second runners-up respectively.
 
 
 
 Gaurav Kumar Jain, who works at  , is from Uttarakhand and moved to Bengaluru 13 years ago. He has been taking part in competitions since 2012. Incidentally, he was the winner last year, and finished as first runner-up in 2015. He has represented India at the Sudoku World Championship twice. Deepika Moningi is a dance teacher and choreographer from   and is now settled in the city. She won the Bengaluru championships in 2013. Lenson Andrade is a technical leader in Cisco. This is his first time on the podium, having taking part in the competition since its inception.
 
