NASHIK: This year’s Women’s Day was a special one for the women police personnel here. For the first time, they were felicitated for the outstanding work on Wednesday.

 The police commissionerate premises sported a different look than usual as the programme initiated by commissioner of police Ravinder Singal was conducted entirely by the policewomen.
 
 The women in khaki also exhibited their artistic side as they sang and danced like professionals. Earlier in the day, an all-women bike rally with helmets was conducted wherein 150 policewomen participated. Later, a sharp shooting competition was organised for the women. 
 
 Police inspector (traffic)  , police Naik Ratnamala Bhole and police sepoy Nilima Nikam crooned to the tunes of Hindi and Marathi songs with the orchestra of Rahul Adangale and Team, making the atmosphere vibrant. Policewomen Sarika Ahirrao, Amrapali Pagare and Unnati Bhave danced gracefully to a patriotic song, while Manisha Patil, Manisha Gosavi and Pushpa Nimse delivered speeches on women empowerment.
 
 Retired DCP and international shooting champion Harvinder Kaur Varaich, youngest Indian to scale Everest and many other peaks Krishna Patil from Buldhana, Nasa space educator Apurva Jakhadi, Jaya Davle (revenue commissioner’s wife), N Shanthi (district collector’s wife) were the guests of the evening. 
 
 The felicitations included school bus driver of Boys’ Town School Vijaya Shinde, Ujwala Jagtap of Dilasa Pratishthan for helping the old, bus conductors RV Bagaskar, M B Sonawane, G V Lohatkar, C A Pathak, S M Dudhat, sharp shooting trainer for international events Monali Gorhe, Deepali Mankar of  , autorickshaw driver Reshma Nikam, sanitary employees of CP office Pushpa Aware and Amrapali Pagare, policewomen in sports Anju Sahani, Rutuja Reddy, Amrapali Pagare, Sunita Sable, Geeta Rahane for excellent bandobast during election, Unnati Bhave an orphan who became a policewoman. Besides, 14 women police officers were also felicitated for outstanding work.
 
 “I am proud of you,” began the CP while addressing the policewomen, “This programme has been organised completely by the women staff. Our policewomen artists are better than the playback singers,” he said. “Why do we celebrate Women’s Day? I feel it is to thank women and learn from them how they can manage to do so many things,” Singal said.
 
 In the meantime, the plumbing association conducted a day-long workshop for women on the occasion of the International Women’s Day on Wednesday. Women were provided training on plumbing maintenance during a trainin g programme by the Nashik chapter of the Indian Plumbing Association.
 
 
