MUMBAI: Mumbai University's online assessment work was handled by three different agencies working in isolation.This led to chaos and delayed this year's results, reveals a report by the state government's information technology (IT) department.

 The report also revealed the university failed to follow tendering norms before appointing an agency . The administration even overlooked tech nical recommendations given by the IT department to structure the tender. No contract was signed between the university and the main agency ­ MeritTrac in this case ­ before getting them on board. The report implies the university's unpreparedness and vicechancellor  's hurried decision despite that were mainly responsible for delay in results of exams conducted in April-May .The report was submitted to the higher and technical education department and Governor Ch   Rao and was discussed in the review meeting on Sunday .
 
 Government sources said the governor's office is likely to appoint a search committee to appoint a new VC in October. While a final decision on Deshmukh is pending, acting VC   is likely to continue for two more months. And the process to ap point a new head is likely to start from October.
 
 Deshmukh decided to appoint two external agencies ­ MeritTrac (for scanning and providing onscreen assessment software) and   (for scanning only the cover page of answer sheets which has bar codes) ­ for carrying out assessment work, when the functions could have been handled by one, said a senior official from the IT department. These two agencies sent their bit to the university's central computing facility (CCF), a third entity responsible for reconciliation and publication of results. A government official said usually the scanning of the cover page and of answersheets should have been done by the same company . “The agency that carried out online assessment work for engineering papers since 2013, Mindlogicx, was doing it independently . Involving two agencies led to confusion. A lot of time was spent on matching data submitted by both agencies with attendance of students at the reconciliation stage,“ said the official. He added, “The university needs an approval from the IT department before floating the tender. The department made a few suggestions which were not taken into account.“
 
 IT department officials got involved in the process from July 4 and worked with the university's examination section and prepared the report based on their observations.
 
