HYDERABAD: Engineering students from the city took to virtual space to raise their objection over the answer sheet evaluation process followed by   , Hyderabad.Through an online petition, more than 7,400 students expressed their dissatisfaction over the university's `faulty evaluation system'.

 Filed days after the first semester examination results were declared on February 7, the petitioner blamed the university for its poor evaluation system.Addressing the petition to JNTU-H vice-chancellor   , deputy chief minister and education minister of   and Information Technology minister  , the petitioner claimed that he failed the exam despite at tempting enough questions in the theory paper. “Out of 75 marks, I attempted questions of at least 60 marks.While I assumed securing 26 marks (passing marks) out of 60 would be a cakewalk, I secured only 16 marks,“ stated the petitioner. The petition soon gathered immense support from fellow students as many shared their stories on a social media platform.
 
 Students of   and Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology even held a protest on February 10 within their col lege premises on the same issue. “I cleared only one written paper out of six and two laboratory papers. It is unfair as I secured 70 per cent in diploma. Now, I have to appear for the supplementary examination for no fault of mine,“ said Venkat, a second year student.
 
 Similar concerns were raised by others as they alleged that the university was making money by deliberately giving less marks.“In our class, a meagre 20 per cent students have cleared all subjects. The university charges heavy fee for re-evaluation and supplementary examination as compared to other state universities,“ said Mohammed Ashraf, a first year student.
 
 When STOI contacted N Yadaiah, JNTU-H registrar, he said: “The university cannot be blamed for the evaluation process. It is the college management that is responsible for deputing faculty members for evaluation. We have taken every possible step to keep up the quality of corrections. However, if students have concerns, they can always approach us.“
 
