BENGALURU: A maulvi and a worker were   and 12 escaped unhurt when a four-storey building housing a   and a   was gutted in southwest Bengaluru on Friday afternoon. 

  The incident took place at Vinayakanagar, Old Guddadahalli, off Mysuru Road. Fire department officials suspect a short circuit triggered the blaze. Mohammed Hafizullah, 35, a preacher with the madrassa, and Mohammed Mehtab, 27, a worker in the furniture unit, were burnt to death. Mehtab stayed on the factory premises, and Hafizullah lived in the vicinity. 
 
 The chair-manufacturing unit was housed in the ground and first floors of the building, and the madrassa operated from the second and fourth floors. The owner's family stays on the third floor of the building. His family members and five factory workers were rescued in the nick of time.
 
 Seven workers were present in the factory on Friday, while the madrassa had a holiday. The fire broke out on the ground floor in the midst of foam and chairs around 12.45pm. Within minutes, the flames spread and a neighbour called the fire control room. Ten fire tenders were rushed to the spot from Bapujinagar, and 200 firemen took part in the operation. DCP, west, MN Anuchet told TOI the building belongs to Ibrahim Pyarejan Khaleemulla, who also owns the furniture unit. “Three women and four children were rescued from Khaleemulla's house,“ he said.
 
 After dousing the flames, firefighters came across the bodies around 2.30pm. “They were found dead near the unit's bathroom and police had a tough time in identifying the bodies. Mehtab's younger brother Mohammed Imran identified the former from his clothes, while Khaleemulla's family members identified the maulvi,“ they said.
 
 Hafizullah, from Shivamogga, is survived by wife Sufiya and 18-month-old son Numan. Mehtab (from Delhi) is survived by wife Zabina. The duo had tied the knot last year. Mehtab was work ing in the unit for seven years. His two younger brothers were also employed there.
 
 The fire brigade's operation went on till 6pm as minor fires continued to erupt. Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan organized a bus and ambulance to shift Hafizullah's body to Shivamogga.“Arrangements will be made to transport Mehtab's body to Delhi,“ a source said.
 
 Soumendu Mukherji, IGP, fire and emergency department, said a short circuit may have set off the blaze. While most interiors of the building were destroyed, the structure withstood the fire. A case of death due to negligence has been booked against the building owner.
 
