LUCKNOW: The hard lessons BJP learnt from its defeat in Bihar in 2015 were put to good use while planning its strategy for Uttar Pradesh 2017. This time round, BJP avoided the pitfalls of strident election rhetoric and steered clear of self-goals such as RSS chief  's comments on quotas. Decisions on ticket distribution were carefully calibrated and local leaders were involved in every aspect of decision-making.

 BJP stuck to a fairly large bouquet of issues, ranging from Hindutva concerns like a ban on mechanised slaughterhouses and Romeo squads to welfare schemes such as farm loan waivers and a package for Bundelkhand. Apart from showcasing PM Narendra Modi as its poll mascot, the party cut its reliance on central leaders, and gave sufficient space to state leaders.
 
 Candidates were carefully chosen to reflect a caste balance spectrum with focus on non-Yadav OBCs. Three candidates were chosen from each constituency, and the MP had a major say . Candidates who had suffered successive defeats were not considered despite protests.State president  , state general secretary (organisation) Shiv Kumar and national vice president  , were assigned the task of identifying candidates who were further vetted by BJP chief Amit Shah with poll managers like Sunil Bansal playing a key role.
 
 The campaign narrative had two distinct strands. While party seniors stuck to the development agenda, local functionaries focused on micro issues to strike a chord with the voters. BJP's cause received a boost when the Dayashankar Singh-Swati Singh episode happened. After making slanderous remarks against BSP supremo Mayawati, BJP member Dayashankar was sacked as state general secretary. But the equally offensive diatribe by BSP functionaries against Dayashankar's wife Swati polarised upper castes against Mayawati.
 
 The election results show a rare convergence of Brahmins and Thakurs, who together constitute around 19% of voters. Firebrand Hindutva speaker Yogi Adityanath criss-crossed the state. Sensing legal hurdles, the party was pragmatic and didn't make fresh promises on the Ram temple and reiterated its construction through Constitutional means.
 
 Unlike Bihar, state leaders led from the front during 'parivartan' rallies with 'nukkad' meetings and direct interaction with the people as the highlights. Modi and Shah were reserved for the bigger occasions.
 
 “We had direct connect with more than two crore people across the state after covering 17,000km during the parivartan yatra,“ said Maurya.
 
