When Naidhroven A attended a workshop at the Tamil Nadu state government's   at   he grabbed the limelight despite 25 other attendees; not just because he was the youngest, but also because he had got the highest grant amount of Rs 25 lakh for his venture.

 Naidhroven, who lives with muscular dystrophy, bagged the grant after a two-year wait for designing an all-purpose e-scooter. As an applicant under a government scheme, Naidhroven has to go through multiple checks, audits and clearances from state officials running the NEEDS Scheme and the Prime Minister's office for loan approval under the   (PMMY).
 
 “We had applied in 2014, but got an approval only in February 2016. It was a long process involving loads of paperwork,“ he says.
 
 But Naidhroven's battle against adversity started as early as in the 6th grade. “Being diagnosed with muscular dystrophy, I could not be as active as my peers. My school, however, accommodated all my needs. They used to hold all my classes and exams on the ground floor. I had to have a surgery in 8th standard as I progressively weakened,“ he says. Naidhroven managed to finish his B Com, MBA before the condition increased in severity . He had an ankle fall in 2013, which left him severely immobilised.
 
 “I designed this model primarily for my use. With an electric wheelchair the problem is you'd constantly require another person's help to get into the wheelchair and get around. Our vehicle has been designed so that the physically challenged can be mobile and independent,“ he says.
 
 However, it is not just physically-challenged individuals, who are finding his invention useful. There are employees in large campuses and the elderly in gated communities, who find his escooter useful. “Neither I nor my daughter have any physical disability , but we are finding the e-scooter useful. My daughter Suchitra is 40 years old and doesn't drive a cycle or bike, so she finds this vehicle useful. I'm impressed with the servicing,“ said Rajalakshmi S, 68, a retired official.
 
 “The   Development and Innovation Institute of TN has been supporting the growth of many individuals like Naidhroven by providing trading and facilitation under NEEDS. This project is unique because it was born out of necessity.And we were all impressed by this energetic young entrepreneur. Even his marketing strategy is non-conventional in that it is fully online. Hopefully we should see more en trepreneurs like him emerge from our programme,“ said K Rajaraman, Tamil Nadu principal secretary, department of planning, development and special initiatives.
 
 But the grant from the Centre did not necessarily smoothen the road for Naidhroven. He approached more than 15 banks, only to get turned down. “The banks were extremely reluctant to provide a loan without collateral. Their contention was what if the entrepreneur defaults?“ Finally he got a loan from Canara Bank in February 2016 for Rs 8.5 lakh with an overdraft of Rs1.5 lakh -despite only Rs 5 lakh being sanctioned as a loan.
 
 But Naidhroven has not given up on his engagement with the government. “My next plan is to be a part of FAME or the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &)   in India. I want to have my own unit at the SEZ here,“ he says.
 
 (This series captures startup ecosystem in the state)
 
