PUNE: For travel aficionados, the holiday on Tuesday for the elections and the preceding three days - Saturday, Sunday and Monday - turned out to be an opportunity to plan a short getaway.

 Some took off to nearby tourist hotspots like Konkan, Goa Mulshi, Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani but made sure to return on Tuesday to cast their ballots while others planned a four-day trip.
 
  said that several from the city planned a short break from February 18 to 21, with some coming back to Pune by Tuesday noon to exercise their right to vote. They were many who voted early on Tuesday and took off to holiday spots at drivable distances.
 
 Nilesh Bhansali, director of   (TAAP), said that citizens seemed serious about voting in the civic election.“They took off from the city on Friday evening or Saturday, holidayed till Tuesday morning and then came back to the city to vote. Some others, however, made their arrangements for travel on Tuesday but after they have exercised their franchise. They headed off to places like Mulshi, Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani,“ said Bhansali. Other destinations that topped the 'long-weekend' travel list included Ganpatipule and Goa, said travel company sources.
 
 Other travel industry sources, however, said that there were plenty in the city who were out holidaying even on Tuesday. “Some travellers came back on Monday night to cast their vote. Some others left on the evening of February 17, to holiday till Tuesday night, missing the voting exercise completely. Most clients travelled to Mahabaleshwar, Shirdi and Tarkarli. All our vehicles have been booked for the four days,“ said a travel company's manager who works in a tour firm in Koregaon Park. Vijay Mandalik of Swades Tours and Travels confirmed the trend. “We had bookings for the four days (February 18 to 21) to places like Mahabaleshwar, Diveagar, Dapoli, Ganpatipule and even Goa.While some travellers returned on Monday night, others made plans to come back on Tuesday evening,“ he said.
 
 However, not all of them made use of the holiday to skip voting. There are many people from other cities working in Pune who do not have their names registered as voters.“They headed off to spots places such as Imagica's Theme park, Lonavala and Khandala,“ said   of DDR Travels.
 
