JAIPUR: As   is witnessing increased footfall of patients, the patients are finding it difficult to get their diagnostic tests done. So the hospital has increased timings for collection of samples for tests to 3pm, which was 1pm earlier.

 Patients frequently complained to the hospital administration that they had to come the next day to provide samples at the laboratory as the timing for samples collection was till 1pm. 
 
 Health minister   visited the hospital on Saturday and directed the officials to resolve the problem of the patients. He said that timely diagnostic tests should be done so that a patient gets immediate treatment for the disease.
 
 He said that the existing laboratory does not have sufficient space and it should be shifted to the third floor of   building.
 
 Besides, the registration counters at Dhanwantri building will also be shifted to employees’ quarters lying vacant outside the Dhanwantri building to minimise the crowd at the Dhanwantri building, where the OPD is situated. 
 
 In the quarters, 22 registration counters will be opened to issue patients’ registration cards depending on their category. Besides, online registration for doctors’ appointment has not been used by the patients so far. The hospital administration says that patients were doing online registrations but there is a need for more awareness. 
 
 Saraf also pointed out that the hospital administration should give impetus to online registrations to decongest the hospital. If a patient gets online registration, he fixes his appointment with the doctor at a particular time. Officials said that if a patient has online registration, he will not have to wait in the queue and he gets direct entry to the doctor’s chamber at the time allotted to him through online registration.
 
 Saraf met the family of journalist  , which donated his body to SMS medical college for academic purpose. Nahar passed away on Saturday morning. Saraf expressed solidarity with the family. He said that people will take inspiration from the journalist’s family. Donating a deceased’s body will give boost to research work.
 
 
