VADODARA: In another incident which has shamed the ruling   of MS University, Ajay Dogra, warden of Rabindranath Tagore Hall of Halls of Residence and vice-chancellor (VC) nominee in university’s senate body, was arrested for drunken fracas.

 Dogra, was arrested after being found drunk by Fatehgunj police in wee hours of Friday morning. 
 
 He was booked under   and criminal assault on a student as he had allegedly misbehaved and abused a couple of students standing outside the hall.
 
 A curator working with the laboratory of civil engineering department of Polytechnic College, Dogra went unruly at around 1.30 am when he first removed keys of a bike of a student, who had reached the hall to collect books from his friend and later even slapped him. “We were standing nearby when we noticed that he started beating up a student with a stick without any reason. When I reached the spot, he threatened to damage my career and said he was promoting ‘Mission Kashmir’,” said Shubham Kaul, leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). 
 
 ABVP leaders later called the police who arrested Dogra, who continued his noisy prattling.
 
 Ironically, although it is a known fact that Dogra, is a close confident of syndicate member Jigar Inamdar, who has saffron links, during the ruckus, president of Vadodara unit of Congress-backed student outfit – the National Students Union of India, Zuberkhan Pathan, had reached the hostel premises, to defend Dogra. 
 
 It was because of his closeness with Inamdar that Dogra, joint general secretary of the Staff Union of Non-teaching (SUN), became VC’s nominee in the senate body, sources suggest. 
 
 Not only Pathan, role of head of university’s vigilance staff P P Kanani has also come under scanner as he allegedly reached Fatehgunj police to ensure that a FIR is not lodged against Dogra. 
 
 “While Pathan threatened me not to register complaint against the warden, Kanani requested me to strike a compromise. But if we continue tolerating such nonsense, MSU’s rank will further deteriorate,” said Kaul, who along with other ABVP leaders later in the day. 
 
 They also made a representation before MSU officials demanding that Dogra should be removed from all the posts that he is holding in the university. 
 
 After the hoopla, MSU did a face saver by issuing two separate circulars, whereby Dogra was relieved from wardenship while his senate membership was also ceased with immediate effect. 
 
 V M Parmar, officiating chief warden has been given additional charge as in-charge warden of the hall. Two separate complaints were filed against Dogra at Fatehgunj police station. 
 
 While one complaint was filed under Prohibition Act, another was filed by a student Prince  , who has alleged that his friend Krunal Vasava, was abused and assaulted by Dogra leaving him injured. Dogra was later granted bail from the police station.
 
 
