THRISSUR: The strain in the relations between   and CPI, the two major partners of the ruling combine in Kerala, intensified further on Monday, after CPM central committee member   unleashed a scathing attack on the CPI. Jayarajan said   leaders in Kerala were pretending that they were intellectuals, but in reality they had no significant strength in the state. Jayarajan contended that CPI was surviving on the strength of others.

 Jayarajan’s outburst came after an article was published by CPI’s mouthpiece Janayugom on Monday that strongly criticized chief minister   and education minister C   for their alleged anti-student stance after an agitation began at the Law Academy in Thiruvananthapuram over three weeks ago.
 
 The article criticized Vijayan for rejecting an inquiry into the alleged land allocation irregularities at the Law Academy and Raveendranath for his alleged pro-management stance during the conciliation talks convened by him to end the agitation.
 
 Jayarajan alleged that the CPI mouthpiece had degenerated to the level of a puppet in the hands of those trying to decimate the Left forces for narrow interests. “People are recognizing the true nature of the agitation being spearheaded by CPI in collaboration with the RSS and the Congress,” alleged the CPM leader.
 
 The former minister criticized the decision of the revenue minister   to order an inquiry into the alleged land grab by the Law Academy’s management. “This is an issue involving various government departments like revenue, law and education. The revenue minister cannot unilaterally order a probe,” he said. The revenue minister had ordered a probe after veteran CPM leader VS Achuthanandan had submitted a memorandum seeking a probe.
 
 Jayarajan, who had to step down as industries minister over nepotism row, alleged that it was the internal schism in the CPI that led to this attack on the government. The CPM leader appealed to CPI’s national leaders to intervene and restrain the party’s state leadership.
 
 
