And we are here. The first time   announced the name of their RAW exclusive pay-per-view, The  , the reaction of the fans was nothing less than hilarious, yet we are hours removed from the PPV and credit to WWE that they have built a solid momentum for this pitting the Samoan Submission Machine Samoa Joe against The Beast Incarnate   for the WWE Universal title. 

 We look at the full match card for the event and try to predict the outcome of the matches. So, let’s start:
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 To put in as many words as possible, no one is at the Neville level. Akira Tozawa would have to wait. This for me will be one hell of a match and to see Tozawa in full flow will be a delight. Neville has been ripping apart the cruiserweight division and there is no way in hell that he will lose the tile any time soon. Tozawa’s stocks have been on a high after Titus O’Neal got him to the Titus World Wide brand and this feud should go on for a while. With Austin Aires released, WWE do not have many contenders left who can legitimately pose a threat to the King of the Cruiserweights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This split up of the most entertaining tag team in the past year comes as a big shock for many, but this also means bigger things are lined up for the seven-foot tall, Big Cass. Enzo Amore, after being beaten up by his former tag partner cut a fantastic promo on the RAW’s go-home-show and it brings a lot more emotional quotient to the match up. Amore will suffer as Cass will steam roll his former partner. It would be Interesting to watch how good Cass will look as the monster heel. Because, when this program ends, Cass is surely going to go against bigger and better guys.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 RAW has done well with all their bookings, except this one. The feud stems from the fatal-five way at Extreme Rules and it has been a bit of a dull affair. Bray Wyatt has been on point with his promos of being a God but it means little and has limited impact looking at Wyatt’s win-loss record in major feuds. Yes, he was the WWE World champion, very recently, but going up against Seth Rollins it just doesn’t feel same as other feuds. Rollins has stepped away from the title picture for now and he needed a program and Wyatt was thrusted in to it. That’s about it. But this does give a chance for WWE to book Wyatt better and hand him a win against the King Slayer and get the momentum back on his side. A loss for Rollins by no means will hurt his plans. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This one is the most unpredictable of all the matches in the card, but the upper hand definitely goes to The Miz, with the Miztourage having his back. However, with Bo Dallas and Curtis Axel joining the Miz, this poses a question on Maryse’s role. Maryse was the one who was helping her husband with the distractions, but the Miztourage have that covered. It is rumoured that Maryse will take time off and we could see an angle with Maryse eventually walking out on the Miz. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Presumably the last match of this fued, before Jeff Hardy gets a single push - Just a wild guess. But it seems logical for the veterans to put over their younger opponents. Ironman is built for Sheamus and Cesaro to shine and they should walk away with the titles. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Banks only won the number contender’s turmoil match two weeks back, so this is a feud in the making. Bliss is likely to retain with underhand tactics. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 One of the two well thought out rivalries and this will be explosive. The two men have proven in the past that they can absorb a hell lot of punishment and that brings a lot of credibility to this match up. An Ambulance match means there would be many cringe-worthy spots and irrespective of the fans attitude towards, Reigns, the Big Dog will shine and Braun Strowman will continue to impress with his superhuman strengths. Strowman has got positive cheers since he returned early after a shattered elbow and that plays in to the feud and Reigns is likely to come out victor. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Joe has been booked so splendidly for that he seems to be a legitimate threat for Brock Lesnar’s WWE Universal title. This is not going to a squash job at all and is going to be a main-event worthy match. Who comes out on top? Well that is the easy bit. Lesnar will avoid the Coquina Clutch and will hold on to the title 
 
 
 
 
