THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K) ­ in its additional and final study report on   ( ) ­ has asked it to halve the staff strength at the corporate office from 309 to 146.IIM-K had, in its first report in 2015, had recommended the board to carry out several measures, including staff cuts, to improve efficiency. The state electricity regulatory commission had criticized KSEB for having excess staff on duty.The power regulator had also asked KSEB to submit plans for the judicious implementation of IIM-K report, explore possibilities for offering consultation services and also taking up new business tasks for the optimum utilization of its trained manpower.

 According to the latest and final report ­ which IIM-K submitted following KSEB's inquiry for specific suggestions and detailed plans ­ the proposed changes in manpower were more or less the impact of technological intervention the board had already made in an effective and reliable manner. The report made elaborate recommenda tions about the staff it needs to maintain at the section, division and circle office levels.
 
 The report said the maximum number of employees attached with an electrical section office should be 40. The minimum strength was fixed at 25. Like in the earlier report, the additional report too recommended the board to freeze future recruitment (to the post of meter readers). It wan ted the board to end the compassionate employment scheme.
 
 “Promotions should not be decided based on   rank, which appears to be unfair. A suitable performance appraisal system may be designed and implemented and promotions should be contingent on competencies and performance," the report said.
 
 While a senior driver in KSEB draws a salary of Rs 60,000 per month, the average salary of a sweeper was found to be Rs 25,309. In order to achieve competitive advantage, KSEB may engage divers & sweepers on contract basis instead of having them as full-time support staff. These jobs can also be outsourced to agencies at a cheaper cost to reduce recurring liability," the report said.
 
