One day at work all of a sudden Abhishek Upadhay, 27-year-old software professional started sweating and feeling uneasy. “My hands were shaking; my chest paining and I felt I would collapse anytime. I was rushed to the medical room in our office and the medical superintendent who checked me said my BP had shot up. For a second I had no idea what he was talking about. I’ve never had a BP issue till now, then how could it just shoot up?” questions an exasperated Abhishek.

 Dr Shubha Rao, general physician, says, “Earlier blood pressure issues were only witnessed in elderly people. However, just like Abhishek who is only 27, there are many in their early or late 20s battling   concerns. This is one ailment which has taken precedence in recent times.”
 
 Dr Nikhil Biswas, medical professional feels the reason why high blood pressure is so common among youth is because of the amount of stress that they have in their daily life. He says, “At the start of their career one requires devoting enough time to work, which then builds undue pressure and gives way to high blood pressure issues.”
 While it is believed that high blood pressure is normally hereditary, Dr Rao opines that these days one can attribute it to the lifestyle that youngsters lead to this problem. She says, “Apart from work-related stress, alcohol, smoking and other habits are some of the reasons why youngsters are prone to high blood pressure. This is a problem that develops over time but the symptoms show quite later in life. The more early you understand the dangers of this problem, the faster you will be able to treat it.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 When you are obese or fat, your heart finds difficulty in pumping blood to your arteries, thereby causing high blood pressure.
 
 
 Too much intake of salt (sodium) is a reason why people often suffer from high blood pressure. Dr Biswas says, “The salt that you use while cooking is enough for you. Adding raw salt to your food not only causes dizziness, weight gain and water retention in your body, but also cause high blood pressure.”
 
 
 When you do not have any form of physical activity in your daily routine, your heart finds it difficult to pump blood, thereby causing a blood rush and eventually rise in your blood pressure.
 
 
 Lifestyle disorders can also be blamed for  . The amount of work pressure one has on a regular basis is often the reason why more and more people fall victim to this issue.
 
 
 If your parents have high blood pressure, chances are that you may have high blood pressure too.
 
 
 
 
 
 One of the most frequent side-effects of high blood pressure is the weakening of the heart, thereby leading to heart failure. Heart problem is a condition in which the body finds it difficult to pump enough blood to the arteries of your heart, thereby making the situation fatal.
 
 
 You may find it absurd, yet high blood pressure often causes blindness or even vision problems in many people. This is because the veins of your eyes are also interlinked to your brain, which fails at supplying enough blood.
 
 
 If you do not take proper care of yourself, it can lead to constant headaches which are worrisome. Normally when your blood pressure shoots up, you experience a mild or severe tingling in your head which is a cause of high BP.
 
 
 
 
 
 One of the most common symptoms of high blood pressure is associated to chest pain.
 
 
 If you feel giddy and uneasy almost all the time, you must get yourself checked at once. Often this is the first sign of detecting whether you have a high BP issue.
 
 
 Dr Biswas says, “If you notice a sudden blood rush in your eyes, it can be that your blood pressure has gone up. Blood shot eyes is often accompanied by headache. So, you must watch out for that.”
 
 
 Cluster headache is a neurological disorder wherein one side of the head experiences a shooting pain around the eye area. If the problem persists, you must check whether you are experiencing a blood pressure problem.
 
 
 City doctors say that youngsters these days experience hypertension and this is one of the reasons as to why there can be a rise in blood pressure..
 
 
 
 
 
 One of the common ways to treat high BP issue is to take medication on a daily basis. Says Dr Rao, “Those suffering from high blood pressure issues, have to take medicines on a regular basis. This will keep your pressure under check.”
 
 
 Exercise and the intake of water are crucial. When you have do some sort of physical activity, your body naturally pumps enough blood which keeps your heart beating and also supplies oxygen as well as blood to your main arteries. Water, on the other hand, helps all your organs to function well, thereby resisting the chances to develop high BP.
 
 
 The first thing that you must do is to lose all the excess weight. Says Rao, “Due to the sedentary lifestyle the youngsters lead causes weight gain. As you age, it becomes all the more difficult to shed weight. That is why you must lose as much weight as you can before you reach 30.”
 
 
 You must limit your salt intake to 2,300 milligrams a day or even less. A lower intake of sodium, say about 1,500 mm will keep you fit and keep high blood pressure at bay.
 
 
 A low to moderate intake of alcohol is best advised since excess of it will damage your heart. 
 
