The city’s heritage has met with another casualty. The latest to fall to the demolition squad’s sledgehammers and crowbars is the once-listed heritage structure, the   Hospital.

 Once known as the Khushnuma Bangla and later  , the structure in Mahboob Chowk in the   was demolished last week. The destruction came to light after blue profile sheets and scaffolding sprang up in place of the original structure.
 
 Convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, Hyderabad chapter, Anuradha Reddy told STOI that the structure, which has strong influences of European architecture, was demolished at a time when Regulation 13 of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) is no longer in force.
 
 “The structure was listed under the II – B category, which allows for adaptive reuse. People started calling it Moti Mahal very recently,” she said. Heritage aficionados opine that the change of name could have been on account of the fact that it is close to  .
 
 Experts said that the building was constructed over 150 years ago. It changed hands a few times and later, began to serve as a homeopathy hospital in the mid-1960s.
 
 But the Homoeopathy Hospital was no stranger to the machinations of the government and private owners, who wanted to see it gone. Converted into a function hall around 15 years ago, the GHMC in 2013 sent its owners a notice stating that structure could collapse any moment — a claim which heritage activists then contended. All this at a time when Regulation 13 was in force. The owners then sought the civic body’s permission to demolish it and construct a new building in its place. Their patience, it appears, has paid off.
 
 While plans for its demolition go back to 2011, one of the iconic landmarks of Banjara Hills — the Banjara Bhavan — was de-notifed from the list of protected structures in 2013. Soon, it fell to the same sledgehammers.
 
 The Banjara Bhavan, also known as the Rock House, was constructed in the 1930s and was the place of resid e n c e o f n o n e o t h e r than noted statesman Nawab Mehdi Nawaz Jung, a Padma Vibhushan awardee. A road named after him in Banjara Hills still exists, but few are aware of it. Heritage expert Sajjad Shahid says that the building was inspired by the works of Antonio Gaudi, a renowned Spanish architect.
 
