KOLKATA: The   on Monday started a probe into a complaint lodged by a 29-year-old   against her family for allegedly   to a private nursing home, apparently to treat her for “mental ailment“.   claimed it was all for her love for stray dogs.

 Her father, a state PWD employee, has lodged a counter-complaint, alleging an NGO, which claimed to have rescued her from the nursing home, had abducted his daughter. The back-to-back complaints were lodged after animal right activists, including Susmita Chattopadhyay , actor Debleena Dutt Mukherjee, her husband actor-director Tathagata Mukherjee, along with NGO Anjali Mental Health Rights Organisation, responded to an SOS sent out by Purbali, asking them to “rescue“ her from Ramkrishna Medical Complex Nursing Home at Phoolbagan.
 
 Purbali, from Hooghly's Janai, was reportedly admitted to the nursing home by her parents on January 21. Now staying with a friend in Kolkata, Purbali alleged, “He (father) gets violent and physically abuses me. Even my brother harassed me mentally . I have a master's degree in history from RBU and a dual graduation degree from Sikkim Manipal University . I was training for WBCS exams. I refuse to take such treatment from my family .“ But her father, Subir Chakraborty , claimed she didn't show any certificate.
 
 Purbali claimed trouble sta rted last January when she tried to rescue a dog and five puppies from her neighbours. “I gave the dogs shelter and went to cops to ensure their safety . Then in August, I rescued two puppies from Baranagar. My love for dogs apparently became an issue. As my parents believe in `kapaliks' and `tantriks', they got `medicines' to cure me. I started avoiding them and stopped eating the food they offered,“ she said.
 
 Her father, however, insisted she had been suffering for 11 years, the problems turning acute in the last two year. “We took her to doctors and got psychological tests done. I've submitted all the reports to the police station,“ he said. “She lives with eight stray dogs that keep barking... they are dirty . She would take Rs 8,000 from me every month to look after the dogs.“
 
 But actor Debleena refused to believe any of Subir's claims.“Her mental ailments, we are told, were due to her affinity towards rescuing strays, not wanting to marry , anger, saving money , refusal to eat... These are absolute ridiculous reasons,“ she said. Amitabha Mukherji, the doctor who treated Purbali, said she had OCD with psychotic symptoms and paranoid personality disorder: “Such patients become suspicious. As the NGO stepped in it is their responsibility to ensure her treatment.“
 
 The police, who questioned Purbali's father, said, “Purbali contacted the animal lovers' fraternity . They , with NGO Anjali, rescued her on a personal bond by the NGO's senior programme manager, Srija Chakrobarty .Subir lodged a complaint against Srija, alleging kidnap.“ But Srija claimed laws were flouted.
 
