GURGAON: Uncertainty over the future seems to have taken the zing out of parties this Saturday as most pubs and bars at   and Sector 29 remained open, but  .

 With the   refusing to revoke its order banning sale of liquor within 500 metres of the national and state highways on Friday, the weekend at Cyber Hub looked different.
 
 Only a handful of people had turned up at their favourite pubs, which, till last weekend, witnessed long queues of guests waiting impatiently outside to go on a binge. And to make the atmosphere more gloomy,   officials and cops made rounds of the area during the evening. 
 
 Moreover, the excise department on Saturday directed all pubs and bars at Cyber Hub and 20 outlets in Sector 29 not to serve liquor till further notice. All the five star hotels, except Taj Vivanta, are covered under this order. The officials also took stock of the inventory at the bars. 
 
 “I do not think that Cyber Hub is going to shut down. They just closed the highway exit this morning, making it almost a 1.2km walk from the NH-8. I am really not sure how this decision is going to help because even one can drink at home and go on a drive,” said Pragati Sachdev, a freelancer, who was among the few visitors who ignored all skepticism, and came out. “The place did look quite deserted today, unlike other weekends,” she said.
 
 Managers at most restaurants and pubs at Cyber Hub claimed that they stopped serving alcohol on Friday night itself.
 
 A board outside a pub, Twist, read ‘No alcohol, No Happy Hour’. At another outlet, People & Co., the board displayed a big ‘Free Beer’ with an almost invisible ‘No’ preceding it. A small crowd had gathered outside the outlet to watch a live band performance, but none stepped in, leaving the chairs empty.
 
 A staff member, working at a brewery, said they were getting a lot of phone calls from customers, enquiring about availability of alcohol, but no one walked in. “Media reports and speculations have done a lot of harm to us as people are now sceptical to come,” said the owner of a bar at Cyber Hub.
 
 Mayur Punj, who works with Google, came with his friends for some Saturday night fun, but returned disappointed. “We generally drink at home, and thus, it doesn’t really affect me. But the decision does not seem logical because there are other ways for someone to drink and drive,” he said.
 
 The scene was more or less the same at Sector 29.
 
 “Unlike previous weekends, the crowd was very thin today. We are waiting for the things to clear out so that this does not continue,” said Pawan Soni, co-owner at Prankster at Sector 29.
 
 Many others, whom TOI spoke to, said they would hold their comments for the moment as there was no clarity.
 
 But, as of now, there is no alcohol and people are in no mood to party. “How can government tell us what to eat and what not? They can regulate it but banning is just no solution,” said Rishab Vishwakarma, who works at Infosys.
 
