THANE: The   on Friday has roped in six officers from the Income Tax to keep a hawk-eye vigil on the poll expenses of the candidates who are likely to splurge heavily on conventional as well as modern communication tools to connect to their voters prior to the February 21   to the   Municipal Corporation.

 State election commissioner JS Saharia told media persons on Friday that the candidates poll-related expenses has been capped to Rs 4 lakh for the   and any excess expenditure would be treated as violation of the election code of conduct.
 
 He said IT officials will monitor the expenses of select individuals and wards where there is prima facie information about excessive spending by the candidates to lure voters. 
 
 “It is for the first time that such a provision of IT officials is being made to oversee the spending part of candidates. ,” informed a senior official from the state election department.
 
 Saharia also informed that a new move to introduce digitized information about the criminal background and education of candidates at polling booths will also be introduced this time. The affidavits filed by the aspiring candidates about their education, family background, criminal records (if any) would now be displayed outside the polling booths to acquaint voters. The data will also be published in the newspapers ahead of the  , he said.
 
 “Till now, such details that prove crucial for voters to know about the candidate standing for the polls in their respective area was not available for all. The data was published online at either the SEC or the civic administration’s website or displayed at the department’s office,” said an election official.
 
 A few political parties reportedly complained to civic commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal on Thursday about the amount being too less compared to the vast volume of voters to be reached. 
 
 The amount of Rs 4 Lakh is too less compared to the expanse of voters that we need to cover. Political parties have sought an increase in the same
 
 
