HYDERABAD:   struck at the 400-year-old 'bank' of   (eunuchs) at   in the Old City and escaped with  , worth Rs 40 lakh, on Monday morning.

 The burglars gained entry into the Hijra Welfare Association office which is located on the ground floor of a three-storied building at Jummerath Bazar by breaking open the lock on the iron grill of the main entrance when the custodians were out on work.
 
 The offenders opened cupboards and almirahs in three rooms, using keys available on the premises, and stole Rs 20 lakh cash and 80 tola gold, Goshamahal assistant commissioner of police K Ram Bhupal Rao said. The burglary at the Hijra Welfare Association office came to light around 12.30 pm when the four custodians -Jyothi Naik alias Sabera Bakshi, Sakira Bakshi, Rita Bakshi and Pallavi Bakshi -returned to the office-cum-residence for lunch and found the cupboard and almirahs ransacked. The custodians, who are addressed as 'Choudhurys', informed the Shahinayatgunj police.
 
 The association acts as an informal bank for over an informal bank for over 1,500 members of the community in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.It has been functioning from the same place for the past 400 years and owns the building. It has given out 10 flats and a few shops in the building on rent. Police suspect the involvement of one of the tenants in the burglary .
 
 "A catering worker, who is a tenant on the top floor of the building, is the prime suspect. We believe that three of his associates entered the building around 10.30 am by breaking the grill lock," a police source said.
 
 According to the police, the custodians left the premises around 7.20 am while the burglars broke in at 10.30 am. "The lost cash and gold belongs to association members who eke out a livelihood by performing at events and seeking alms. They use the association office like a bank to store their savings," police said. The criminals left one almirah untouched.
 
 Police said the CCTVs in the area have recorded three men boarding an auto with bags after committing the burglary . The police have managed to track the auto driver who dropped the three men at Secunderabad railway station. Based on information provided by him, special teams have launched a manhunt. A burglary case was registered under sections 454 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code.
  
 
 
