NEW DELHI: Evading punishment for speeding and jumping the   just got tougher. In a complete revamp of technology used in  ,   is procuring equipment to automatically detect and prosecute violations. These systems are equipped with 3D radar technology and non-intrusive sensors capable of capturing the movement of multiple vehicles simultaneously. The devices have already been installed for trial at some road junctions.

 At each location where this new technology will be employed, 12 high-definition cameras would be installed. Equipped to automatically read number plates, the system would not only determine the speed of the vehicles, but also record stop-line and lane violations and improper parking. 
 
 All these would be recorded in logs detailing the date, time, site and the GPS location of the infractions. Currently, police used cameras mounted on speed interceptor vehicles that are parked on the roadside.
 
 The new systems will be installed in 100 locations in the city that have been deemed to be important for traffic management. These spots have a history of moderate level of offences and will help police to check the effectiveness of the system during peak hours. Until a dedicated control room is set up, these cameras will be linked with the existing traffic control room.
 
 Once a violator is caught on camera, the photograph of the vehicle will be developed to ascertain the identity of the owner and a notice will be sent to the registered address along with a photograph of the infraction. The violator will be required to reach a traffic court and deposit the fine.
 
 The project is part of the Rs 441-crore intelligent traffic management system (ITMS). “We are in the process of testing various systems with the eventual aim being to turn prosecutions into an automated process. The men on the ground will be mainly deployed for controlling traffic,” said Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner (Traffic).
 
 The traffic police issues over 3,000 violation notices every day. Once the automated, camera-based system is in place the cops won’t have to stop the violators because the notices are sent to the registered addresses. 
 
 This will ensure uninterrupted flow of traffic. Common violations for which notices are usually sent by post include jumping traffic lights, driving in non-designated lanes, not using seat belts, talking on the phone while driving and riding two-wheelers without wearing helmets.
 
 The intersections at RK Puram, Moti Bagh, Aurobindo Marg, Barakhamba Road, Sardar Patel Marg, ITO W-Point and Dwarka have been selected to trial red-light violations, while cameras to detect speeding would be put up at some intersections on Ring Road and  . The purpose of the trials is for police to examine the photographic quality produced and the ability of cameras to identify number plates.
 
 
