THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has finally swung into the mode for organisational revamp with the two highest bodies of the party, the political affairs committee and the KPCC executive, meeting on May 16 and 17 for finalizing the schedule. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala affairs   and returning officer for the KPCC polls   will be attending both the meetings. 

 The AICC has instructed the state leadership to complete the organisational revamp before October this year. 
 
 During the tenure of V M Sudheeran as the KPCC president, booth-level committees were set up and new district congress committee presidents were appointed. Now, the revamp has to be made at the district-level and at the KPCC-level. However, no decision has been taken yet on whether there should be a total revamp of the KPCC. 
 
 As it is almost certain that there will be new KPCC president after October, the senior leaders in the party, including   and   have been pushing for a new team at the KPCC. Hence, if a consensus is reached on this by October, both the KPCC and the DCC will have a new team of office bearers. The membership drive of the KPCC has already begun and is expected to be completed by Monday. It was launched on April 30 and about 2.5 lakh membership books were distributed across the state. 
 
 As part of the organisational revamp, the AICC had decided to depute its returning officers to all the districts to have a discussion with the district leaders from May 11 to 18. 
 
 The political affairs committee meeting and the KPCC executive committee meeting will finalize the schedule for the elections to each levels. The leadership is trying to avoid an election and go for a consensus in all the districts. Both the AICC and the senior leaders of the party in the state have expressed concerns over conducting elections since it would trigger intense infighting in the party.
 
 Ahead of the organisational revamp both the A'' and 'I'' groups have started convening informal groups meetings in different districts. 
 
 
