Hyderabad: The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI), which was set up on October 1, 2016, under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, has so far registered around 940 insolvency professionals (IPs) and is in the process of adding another 100 IPs over the next few months, IBBI wholetime member Navrang Saini said here on Friday.

 Chartered accountants, company secretaries, cost accountants and advocates that have 10 years of experience and have cleared the Limited Insolvency Examination can become IPs.
 
 Saini also pointed out that the IBBI had received three applications for registration as information utility (IU), of which two applicants have been granted in-principle approval and the body is in the process of examining the third one. IUs will act as repositories of data for entities such as corporates, which will be useful for the IBBI in its work.
 
 “We are in the process of giving approval to at least one of the IUs and will give the final registration if they meet all the requisite criteria. We have already given in-principal approval to two IUs and out of that I hope one will start functioning by the end of this month. The third application is still under examination with the board,” Saini added. 
 
 IBBI has regulatory oversight over insolvency professionals, insolvency professional agencies and information utilities. It writes and enforces rules for transactions, namely, corporate insolvency resolution, corporate liquidation, individual insolvency resolution and individual bankruptcy.
 
 Saini pointed out that as on September 12, 2017, as many as 3,437 cases have been filed, of which only 354 cases have been admitted by the various benches of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and 337 have been rejected.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking on the new Goods & Services Tax (GST) regime, Telangana's principal secretary (commercial taxes) Somesh Kumar pointed out that businesses have been reporting difficulties in filing invoices under the GST and to examine network-related issues a group of ministers (GoM) headed by Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi will look into the matter on Saturday at a meeting at Bengaluru.
 
 
