Last week, India’s ladies beat Bangladesh 3-1 in the final of the   (SAFF) women’s championship. Playing as   in the victorious team was the inspiring  .

 Aditi is the first Indian woman to play professional   in England. She turns out for West Ham United Ladies, a club in the FA Women’s Premier League Southern Division (the third tier of pro league football). On Sunday, she was at the city’s GEMS Modern Academy to interact with – and motivate – the budding footballers of the Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) Academy India (Gurgaon).
 
 From the time she first pulled on the national jersey, at age 16, Aditi has been carrying the torch for the women’s game in India. Does her high profile, then, boost Indian women’s football? “Yes, in the way it helps spread awareness about women’s football in India,” she told TOI. “So, people get to know that there is a national team, people who otherwise might never have known of it.”
 
 But Aditi is happy to embrace all the attention. Indeed, she relishes the extra pressure and responsibility. “It doesn’t bother me at all.”
 
 Then there are the challenges of a being a ‘keeper, a player who might end up doing little over the course of 90 minutes. “It’s so important to focus because if you make one mistake, you can lose the match. If you make 10 good saves but make one silly mistake, people would only remember that silly mistake.” Born in Chennai but a Delhi girl since 4th grade, Aditi began by playing with the boys in the park outside her house. She soon fell in love with the Beautiful Game. “Football was something I connected to, and the position of goalkeeper suited my personality.
 
  The pitch remains Aditi’s sanctuary, even in the numbing cold and freezing winds of an English winter. 
 
 Aditi knows there’s life after competitive football, which is why she chose to study sports management at  , for whom she’s also a brand student ambassador, a duty she juggles with playing football for a living. Clearly, hers is an old head on young shoulders.
 
