Vadodara: The manufacturing plant of one of the leading cable and wire makers in the country is facing unrest for last five days. 

 Workers of R R Kabel’s plant in Waghodia are on strike since March 2 after the company fired workers for alleged indiscipline. The workers, who are on strike, alleged that the company was making them work overtime and not paying any extra wages. “It all started in November last year when the company asked the workers to turn up on a Sunday. Most workers in the company have been working for more than 12 hours a day and hence we didn’t turn up for work on November 6 last year. After a couple of days, the company fired nearly 100 contractual workers and 11 permanent ones while transferring the other two,” claimed Ram Shankar Singh, union leader who too has been transferred. 
 
 Singh alleged, “The company said that they don’t need more workers due to low production but the management has been bringing some workers from outside. We approached the labour commissioner’s office following which there were hearings in the case. The workers and even Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) of which are members later gave in writing that we won’t go on strike like this again.”
 
 He said that the management was expected to reinstate all the workers after the settlement but it took back just seven of the 11 workers who were fired. “The company’s officials are visiting homes of the workers who are staying in company quarters and threatening to throw them out. Our demand is that all the fired workers should be reinstated and workers should be given overtime if they are made to work for more than eight hours,” Singh told TOI. 
 
 “There were some misconduct and disciplinary issues on the part of some workers. After conducting a third party inquiry, the company sacked seven employees while the other four were found to be not guilty. There were some serious charges against the sacked employees. We haven’t done anything illegal. If the sacked workers have grievances, they can approach the courts,” said Vikram Raval, deputy general manager (administration), R R Kabel. 
 
 Raval claimed that they haven’t removed 100 contractual labourers and only seven have been sacked.
 
 
