MARGAO: Upset with the failure of the proposed alliance talks between Congress and the regional   (GFP), with the former fielding its candidate in the Fatorda constituency against him, GFP Fatorda candidate   on Saturday lashed out at the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president and Congress’ Navelim candidate Luizinho Faleiro. Sardesai accusing Faleiro of doing a secret deal with BJP in order to save himself from being chargesheeted in the special economic zone (SEZ) case, filed against the former industries minister by present defence minister Manohar Parrikar at the Panaji police station.

 An emotional Sardesai surrounded by his staunch supporters, mostly hailing from the scheduled tribe (ST) community, termed the SEZ scam as ‘a joint venture between the Congress and BJP wherein lakhs of Goan land were sold at a pittance to set up industries’. “There is a private complaint filed by Parrikar against four accused, including the Congress party president at the Panaji police station. Faleiro has never uttered a word against the BJP,” said Sadesai, further alleging that Congress has fielded ‘weak candidates’ in Aldona, Cumbharjua, Dabolim and Mapusa as a ‘quid pro quo’ since Faleiro sought to be the next Goa chief minister.
 
 Sardesai also took a dig at the Saligao Congress candidate   for trying to set up Playboy bar in Goa and further alleged that ‘the former Congress Calangute legislator was being moved to Saligao so as to split the votes and benefit the BJP Bhandari Samaj’.
 
 Mocking the Congress manifesto and the Fatorda Block Congress Committee (FBCC) ‘chargesheet’ released against him, Sardesai said, “Faleiro, who claims to solve all Goan problems, has not brought a single legislation when he was the industry minister. The ST community, which forms the Mull Goenkars (original Goans), have always remained faithful to me. So I assure them that I will fulfill all their aspirations. This is GFP’s priority as its agenda is to take care of Goa’s regional politics first.”
 
 Earlier, a ST youth from Fatorda, Jose Silva, who had filed his nomination as an independent candidate, withdrew his nomination in favour of Sardesai. 
 
