SECUNDERABAD: About 15,000 people in Secunderabad cantonment will lose their   if the   (SCB) has its way. The SCB, which plans to implement  's orders on  , who have encroached upon cantonment land, has identified about 15,000 squatters. 

  The Board will serve notices on them and later remove them from the voters' list. They will not be able to exercise their franchise in SCB polls. However, the encroachers will be able to cast votes in the state Assembly, parliament and GHMC polls. The SCB has estimated that about 15,000 voters will be affected. The Board will soon take up a door-to-door survey to identify the encroachers before issuing notices. Only when the survey is completed the Board will be able to identify the exact number of people who stand to lose their voting rights. People who have occupied even the state and the central government land parcels in the cantonment limits, will also be affected by the SC order. There are a number of people, who have encroached upon parcels of land that have been 'gifted' to the SCB for development of parks and playgrounds.
 
 Elections to the eight civilian wards of Secunderabad cantonment are due in 2020. In the last SCB polls held in January 2015, a total of 1.68 lakh people had enrolled their names in the voters' list. 
 
 Earlier, the SCB has sought the help of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad (JNTU-H) to identify the land parcels, which are under illegal occupation. It has also approached the JNTU-H to pinpoint the 16 civil bazaars that once dotted the cantonment. Though the names remain, there is no trace of the land parcels once earmarked for civil bazaars.
 
 "To know the exact number of encroachers in the civil bazaar areas, we have decided to take up a survey. The process will start in a couple of months," a senior SCB engineering official told TOI.
 
 The encroachments spread to areas like Trimulgherry, Marredpally and Secunderabad too. The encroachments took place about four decades ago. The board served notices on 200 encroachers during the tenure of former chief executive officer Sujatha Gupta. But the board could not move further due to political pressure.
 
 When contacted, SCBCEO CVR Chandra Sekhar said soon a meeting will be convened with engineering and election wing officials to chalk out the schedule on action against squatters. 
 
 
