MUMBAI: The Delhi based operator who got the tender to run civic buses in   was on Friday caught red-handed bribing a local  .

 The   ( ) standing committee on June 29 gave its approval for appointing Delhi based Shyama Shyam VSKBus Operations Private Limited to run its buses on a contract basis. The ruling BJP had opposed the proposal. The Shiv Sena and Congress had voted in favour of the tender. Shyama Shyam happened to be the sole bidder despite the municipality calling for tenders atleast four times.
 
 On Friday, the operator Radheshyam Kutariya (55) was caught by the Thane   (ACB) giving Rs 25 lakh bribe to BJP corporator and MLA Narendra Mehta. A clerk of the civic transport department Anand Gabale (38) who acted as the mediator was also caught by the ACB.
 
 The Mira Bhayander Municipal Transport (MBMT) buses were earlier run by Ulhasnagar based Kestrel Infrastructure Private Limited. MBMC had begun operating the buses on contract basis since 2005. The frequency of the 50 buses had drastically reduced since December 2015 due to poor maintenance attributed to lack of depots. 
 
 Kutariya approached Mehta on June 29 and offered to give him Rs 25 lakh to vote in favour of the tender. Despite the BJP voting against the tender, Kutariya continued to offer the money. 
 
 Mehta approached the ACB who laid a trap. On Friday at around 7.15 pm when Kutariya was handing over the cash to Mehta in his office, the ACB nabbed him.
 
 Mehta in his complaint alleged that Kutariya had given money to the corpprators of other parties to vote in favour of the tender.
 
 The contractor was to recruit drivers and undertake maintenance of the buses. The fares were to be collected by the MBMC and the contractor was to get a fixed amount per kilometer.
 
 In January this year Mehta was booked by the Naya Nagar police in Mira Road for allegedly demanding an extortion of Rs 2 crore from a builder. The case was filed on orders of the Bombay higj court.
 
 In November last year Mehta was acquitted of a 14 year old bribery case. He was accused of demanding Rs 20,000 from a civil contractor.
 
