 has been on a much public tour of India, though she comes to the country every year as most of her family is still in Chennai. Right now, she's travelling with her daughter Krishna Thea, and Adam Dell, with whom she had a bitter custody battle in 2012. The two seem to have put the past behind them and been spotted together recently, sparking off rumours of a rekindled romance, but Padma is tight-lipped about any such development, ­ “We are a family with my daughter, that's all I'll say." In Delhi, Padma speaks to Delhi Times with the same frankness with which she bared all in her memoir last year. She doesn't hesitate from talking about her famous ex-husband,  , or the stuff they said about each other in their respective memoirs. Excerpts:

 
 
 That's very true. But now, what's happened, is that I just feel like me, in both places. I think part of that is obviously because I've grown and I'm an adult. But part of that is also what's happening in both our cultures.
 
 The gap between the two cultures, because of the internet, because of social media, is much smaller. You all watch the same shows on TV , and my niece is living with me in the States, and she knows about every single programme, movie star, model, musician, everything. That pop culture gap that used to be there when I was going back and forth in my 20s and 30s has disappeared now.
 
 
 
 Yes, I was born in Safdarjung Hospital.
 
 
 
 I have lots of memories of Delhi. I still think the best chaat is near India Gate, in Bengali Market. My uncle used to live in Moti Bagh, we lived in Netaji Nagar. My grandfather was stationed here. I lived here till I was four, and then I came back for three months when I was 5 and 6. When I was 7, my family moved back down south because my grandfather retired. After I moved to the US, I would still come to Delhi for about a week. My uncle and my cousin lived here, and I always had to come to visit. Everytime I come here I have a mental list of what I'm gonna eat. I'm going to Bengali Market, I'm gonna buy aam papad to take back. I'm gonna try to find a way to pack that Punjabi achaar with red chillies, which are stuffed with saunf. I mean that's quite ambitious, I don't wanna get stopped by customs, especially in this climate! With what's going on. But hopefully my American passport will see me through.
 
 
 
 I think what would be a hindrance if I was a model now. Because as skinny as I was when I was 25, if I was the size I was at 25, which is thinner than I am now, I don't think I would work as much as a model. Because models today are way skinnier than they were in the 90s. In the mid-90s, the grunge movement came in. And that is really what brought in the emaciated, very thin model. And that aesthetic is still sadly prevalent today. If you ask most men, they don't think that's attractive. And especially in Indian culture, that form is not attractive in a sari. I think a woman is more sensual when she looks more womanly!
 
 
 
 I think the international press is interested in selling newspapers. Now I can look back and see that it probably wasn't personal. It is very easy to write a cynical headline and a snarky article that you put on page 3, I think part of being in the public eye is learning how to just cancel that out. The press that is about my work is a lot more important to me. The press about my personal life is just gossip. And now with the memoir there's nothing anyone can say that I haven't said about myself.
 
 
 
 I think the media, even post my divorce, have certainly still had a lot to be snarky about (laughs). But again, it's not about me personally. Those people don't know me. They're not interested in doing any kind of substantial journalism or getting to know this person. They're just interested in the worst common denominator. Because that kind of news sells more than anything that's meaningful. You know, it's just candy. And then the newspaper today is the lining of a birdcage tomorrow ­ that's how you have to look at it. Everything, especially now, with the news cycle being so short, someone else will do something tomorrow, or   will say something stupid, and the spotlight shifts. I'm like small potatoes compared to what's going on!
 
 
 
 There were lots of surprises. I think for both of us. But I can't comment on that kind of stuff because first of all, it's in the past, and second of all, it's irrelevant. What's relevant is what you read on the page. That is all that's important to me. My personal life is my personal life, and as a writer, everything is personal, as any artist will tell you. But those details are kind of very superficial. What's more interesting to me is the writing.
 
 
 
 No. It's not. It's actually not. Because I don't address any of the things about me in Joseph Anton. So it was not at all about that. I run a foundation for women's health, called the Endometriosis Foundation of America, and I couldn't talk about this serious illness, if I didn't talk about the ways it affected my life. I've dedicated the last eight years to help the foundation raise awareness, so it would have been dishonest of me to write a memoir and not deal with that. And it would have been unthinkable considering that is the whole mission of my foundation.
 
 
 
 I probably did say it, who knows? How many things have you said to a friend or your cousins standing around, for a joke? If you string all those things together over eight years together, you can tell any story you want. And I don't care, I really don't. If I cared I'd probably still be in the marriage. We each have the right to our own stories and that's really all I wanna say about it.
 
 
 
 They're two completely different things that are tangentially related. And they're equally serious in different ways. I don't need to have been married to a Muslim to feel incredibly offended by the administration's treatment of certain immigration issues in the US. I'm an immigrant, and I'm an American citizen and I believe that the one reason that America is the greatest country in the world is precisely because it is a country made by and for immigrants. Even those people who are white and Caucasian, and had ancestors coming from the Mayflower, are immigrants. The right wing writers like Ann Coulter or people in his cabinet may call them settlers, but they're still immigrants. And we have forgotten that. And it's not that America is not guilty of doing a lot of wrong things on the international stage, but the thing that America represented, the shining American Dream, is not so much two cars in the garage and a house and a dog and all that ­ that was the American Dream in the 1950s. The ideal American Dream is that anybody can come to America and work hard, it doesn't matter who you are or where your're from ­ as long as you're willing to do the needful and try hard and build a life out of your own two hands, that you can do it. You'll be given a fair share in America. And that shining philosophy of what it means to be American and be accepting has been squandered in mere weeks with the flick of a pen. The last thing I'll just say about that is that many of us didn't vote for him, and most Americans don't feel that way.
 
 
