NAGPUR: A number of railway passengers have expressed concern about the uneven slope on the ramp connecting platforms 4 and 5 to the foot overbridge (FOB) on the Ram Jhula side. Passengers have complained that the slope is also slippery, and a potential safety hazard for people racing to catch trains.

 “I suddenly lost my balance when I was in a hurry to catch my train. It is a very dangerous slope, as it is sudden and hard to notice,” said  , a passenger on the railway station.
 
 Many passengers were seen slipping on the slope, which is causing trouble for passengers. Santosh Tayde, another passenger, said, “The surface is very slippery, it must be rougher so that our footwear can get a grip on the surface. If any old persons tries to climb this ramp, they will definitely fall and suffer some major injury.”
 
 The slippery ramp also links to another ramp connected to the platforms, and if a person loses control he could again stumble on the longer ramp. “I didn’t expected it to be so slippery and I fell. I suddenly lost my balance. I do not suffer an injury, but if I had fallen a bit forward I would have slipped all the way down,” said  .
 
 PD Patil, Central Railways public relations officer, said, “I will see how many complaints have been received about falling passengers, and let our engineer know about the problem.”
 
 Many of the other ramps connecting to the platforms have also eroded over time, and become slippery, causing inconvenience to passengers. “That slope is not built correctly, it is already steep, and at the end it becomes steeper, which makes it hard to judge. I was carrying a single bag still I fell, what must be happening to people carrying heavy luggage?” asked  , a passenger.
 
 “I fell really hard on my back, but luckily I didn’t get injured while leaving for a holiday with my family. At least railway officials can build steps, like on the other ramps, or can make the surface rougher, so people do not fall here,” suggested  , another passenger.
 
