Ahmedabad: First Lady of Japan Akie Abe will have pure vegetarian Indian lunch on Thursday during her visit to the Japan Information Centre (JIC). Interestingly, vegetarian Indian food is her personal preference because it is part of the tradition of the JIC that serves only vegetarian food. Sources at the JIC said she had declined any break with tradition and wanted to have only vegetarian food to be served to her. Authentic Indian dishes, including Gujarati specialties, fafda and jalebi, will be served to her.

 The First Lady of Japan will begin her day by visiting the garden at Sabarmati riverfront and will also go to the Calico Museum. She will address students and faculty members at Gujarat University and will talk about climate change. She will visit the Vocational Training Unit at Blind People’s Association (BPA). Later, she will also be visiting the JIC where a several activities have been lined up for her.
 
 “Akie Abe has asked for minimal protocol as she wants to interact directly with youth, children and women. At BPA, there is no stage event as she has expressed her wish to make paper bags along with other participants,” said an official.
 
 When she arrives at JIC, she will be welcomed with a bi-lingual song – ‘Kem Chho, Konnichiwa’ – that will be performed by a group of 18 students of a city school. She will then inaugurate the Origami Mahotsav – an exhibition of origami models made by city-based school students.
 
 “The prize distribution ceremony of the Origami Contest held on Sunday will take place on Thursday. In fact, Akie Abe has personally brought some gifts to be given away as prizes to the winning students. Soon after, she will spend some time with the students making origami models,” said Mukesh Patel, president, Indo- Japanese Friendship Association (IJFA), Gujarat chapter.
 
 Akie Abe will also present some 45 Japanese books to the JIC library, Patel said. 
 
 Bullet train cake for First Lady
 
 An ice-cream cake that looks like the bullet train has been specially prepared for the First Lady of Japan. Yet another cake with a Michiko Doll, the mascot of IJFA, will also be prepared. Akie Abe will cut these cakes at the ceremony at JIC.
 
 
