HYDERABAD: A proposal to stop tanker water supply in the city by the end of this year is under consideration. A decline in the booking of tankers for three months could be a reason for it.

 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is closely monitoring tanker bookings and once, the monsoon ends in September, a final decision to stop tankers' supply will be taken with the nod of municipal administration and urban development minister  
 
 “The city had enough groundwater table and during this summer, there was no significant demand for tanker water supply . Tanker bookings registered in April, May and June show an average of under 3,000 tanker bookings per day which is less than average bookings in rest of the months which is about 5,000.
 
 “In fact, due to less tanker bookings, the owners of the tankers are diverting their supply to the other   districts where water scarcity more,“ sources in HMWS&SB told TOI.
 
 Currently ,   is supplying tanker to the consumers on the same booking day . In certain areas like Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Khairatabad, Somajiguda, S R nagar, Marredpally and other areas in the city , the tanker is being sent within eight to 10 hours from the time of booking.
 
 “Water board losing its revenue is not an issue her, but the burden of monitoring tankers supply is unbearable,“ a senior official who monitors the tankers bookings and its revenue, said.
 
 In a major development, the water board has also decided to provide potable water through pipeline to ill-served areas including 303 slums where free tanker are   It will take at least five months to lay pipeline in these slums. The water board already has a hu ge distribution network, but it was confined only to a certain areas and is now being extended to  
 
 “Once the pipelines are laid in these slums, tanker supply will be stopped. However, water board will send tankers if pipelines leak or valves are damaged,"said the  
 
 Simultaneously , the tankers supplies will also be stopped in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) peripheral circles, but in a phased manner.
 
 Water board has aimed to streamline supply to all 11 GHMC peripheral circles by March or April next March.
 
 “Initially , water board planned to stop tanker supplies in city from the December end,“ said an official.
 
