NASHIK: The water resources department (WRD) has said there is no provision in the   dam project report about release of water to the   as part of the environmental and ecological flow norms.

 Moreover, it said that the state government is expected to take a call on the issue as it is a policy matter. The department's response came in the wake of a complaint lodged on Aaple Sarkar portal of the state government by environmentalist Devang Jani.
 
 Jani alleged that the department was not following the environmental and ecological flow norms for release of water from the dam to the river that is essential to make the river pollution free.
 
 Speaking with TOI, he said, “The Gangapur dam was built in 1958 on the Godavari. Now, the flowing water of the Godavari is halted at the Gangpur dam. After the floods in July last year, water has not been released into the river. This polluting the river much. As per river right policy, the Godavari has its first right on the Gangapur dam water. The   (MWRRA) has norms for releasing water into the river as per ecological and environmental flow.”
 
 He added, “Moreover, the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute ( ) during its reports submitted to High Court on Godavari pollution, has mentioned about the release of water into Godavari as per ecological and environmental flow. It has clearly mentioned how much water should be released from Gangapur dam during January to June period.”
 
 Jain said he had filed a complaint on Aaple Sarkar portal of the state government. “In reply to my complaint, the WRD office of   division said there is no provision in the Gangapur dam project report about the release of water from the dam to Godavari under the environmental and ecological flow norms. It is a policy matter and the decision in this connection is expected at the state government level,” he said.
 
 According to NEERI reports, around 41.6 cusec of water should be released from Gangapur dam to Godavari in January month, while 125 cusec should be released during February-June period.
 
 
