CHENNAI: With the medical   dates flip-flopping on thousands of anxious students, the minister for higher education KP Anbalagan said nothing can be done about vacancies caused by   students leaving their seats for medical colleges this year. While the engineering counselling (TNEA), which kicked off on Monday, was scheduled to start only on the basis of medical counselling dates, Anbalagan said the high court’s constant changes in directions for specifying a date for   counselling was affecting the engineering schedule.

 “Nothing can be done about the seats that will go vacant. We can only hope to set the dates more streamlined for next year,” he said explaining that the TNEA schedule was originally decided in consideration with the NEET counselling dates. As July 17 was the previously set date for med-counselling, TNEA general counselling was then set for July 23 to give applicants a window to choose. “This was done considering that there are engineering applicants who give up their seats, after securing a medical seat,” he told reporters on Monday.
 
 But this spells bad news for engineering seats, which is already seeing dwindling applicants. Several top-ranking students in the TNEA pool who will be slotted on July 23 could be relinquishing their seats if they qualify in NEET. As it stands, 47% of the total available seats under TNEA are going vacant. 
 
 Anna University had earlier sent out the completeset of dates for TNEA’s application and registration process but had kept open the counselling dates in view of keeping a window open for medical counselling.“The entire medical counselling process takes about a week’s time, but TNEA handles a large volume of students and needs much more time to complete all the sessions,” said Anbalagan.
 
 He explained that while waiting on NEET dates was not an option anymore, as classes need to begin by September 1, some administrative measures were taken to expedite the process. “We have added more shifts and more computers to work on the process round the clock,”. 
 
 Registrar of   said the fall in seats couldn’t be predicted as it entirely depended on the state’s round of NEET counselling.
 
 
