PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Private English-medium schools in Pimpri Chinchwad have stopped giving admissions to students under   quota alleging reimbursement backlog for the past four years. 

 Independent English Schools' Association ( ) secretary, Rajendra  , told TOI, "We are an association of budget schools, the ones falling in the fees bracket of Rs 6,000 to Rs 20,000. About 90% schools in the state fall under this category. Sadly, the state government is yet to reimburse to us the fees of the students admitted under 25% RTE quota since 2012. This is the sole reason behind the closing down of as many as 7,049 schools in the state."
 
 There are 63 budget schools in the PCMC limits that admit around 3,000 students under RTE. Last year, as many as 35,000 applications were received for 15,393 seats. "However, the government had informed us that it will not be able to reimburse fees worth Rs 84 crore to the budget schools last year," Singh said.
 
 Considering that the parents of the students admitted under RTE quota are not able to pay the fees, the government should have been prompt in clearing the backlog. However, that has not happened, so far. "As a result, about 40% of students in the budget schools do not pay their fees, dealing a huge blow to the finances of these schools," he said.
 
 Singh said the association had sent a letter to the education director highlighting all these problems. "Needless to say, we have not received any reply from the authorities till now. Therefore, we have stopped admitting students under the RTE quota," he added.
 
 "A total of 883 schools from 20 districts across the state are members of the association. Many other private schools have expressed support to our demand. We will be collecting information about the total number of schools who are our members, their total number of students and number of students who have been admitted under RTE till now," Singh said.
 
 Meanwhile, parents of students who were denied admission met chairman of municipal school board   recently. They also met the IESA and appealed to them to give admissions to the students under the RTE quota. Shinde has written letters to Vinod Tawde, state education minister, and director of school education requesting them to intervene.
 
