MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday declined to restrain   from cutting trees for the Colaba-Andheri-SEEPZ   line, observing that so long as it was following court orders, it was not required.

 A vacation bench of Justices Prakash Naik and M S Karnik took note of MMRCL and BMC statements that only those trees were being cut for which permission had been granted by the Tree Authority. 
 
 Activist Kunal Birwadkar moved court, saying trees to be transplanted were cut at Worli. He is an intervenor in petitions challenging the felling of over 5,000 trees for the Metro. The HC on May 5 vacated its interim stay in view of MMRCL’s undertaking to replant and transplant trees in the same area on completion of work for stations.
 
 Senior advocate Mustafa Doctor, for MMRCL, said confusion was created due multiple numbering on trees. “We are following a plan which indicates which trees have to be cut and transplanted,’’ he said, adding that at Worli no tree marked for transplant was cut. The bench said it was concerned with the HC’s May 5 order and MMRCL’s “action has to be in conformity with it”.
 
 Senior advocate Anil Sakhare , for BMC, said only those trees were being cut for which permission was granted by the Tree Authority. He said two HC-appointed members to oversee compliance visited eight sites in South Mumbai on May 24 and 25, and grievances can be placed before them. 
 
 Petitioner Nina Verma’s advocate Raj Patel sought a stay so that the chief justice can nominate two judges to look into their grievances, as directed by the Supreme Court. “It is a war zone at each and every site,’’ he said. But the bench said it was not inclined to grant a stay in view of the circumstances. “Where do we go once the trees are cut?’’ asked Patel. Justice Karnik answered, “You have a remedy. The officers are there to oversee compliance.”
 
 Justice Naik said, “We are also concerned for trees. Some via media is required.’’ The next hearing is posted on June 5 and Sakhare’s statement that the junior tree officer of the ward concerned will be present at the site.
 
 
 
 
