MUMBAI: The   asked the state government on Monday to "come clean" and explain how it allotted a 4,425-square metre plot (pic, right) at Oshiwara in Andheri (west) to a   without inviting tenders. 

 A bench of Justices Rajendra Savant and Sadhana Jadhav was hearing a plea by 12 housing societies at Adarsh Nagar, a Mhada layout, that they are affected by the loss of open space after Mhada, the state housing authority, in 2009 entered into a deal with Legent Recreation Club. They sought cancellation of the lease, saying the plot was reserved for a recreation ground and a similar plot is not available in the locality. They added that tenders were not invited and the plot would fetch more than the Rs 45 lakh paid by the club for a 30-year lease.
 
 The club's advocate said an earlier PIL challenging the allotment had gone to the Supreme Court and was dismissed; it is in review in the HC. So, the "issue stands concluded". But the petitioners' advocate Anand Mishra said one Radheshyam Gaur had filed the PIL in "collusion" with the club. The judges said the petitioners would have to "buttress their claim by placing material on record".
 
 The Mhada advocate said the allotment was sanctioned by the state government. "State must come clean on this. On what basis has it been done? We are concerned about the residents of the area. We have no personal interest in all this,'' said Justice Savant, seeking responses from both sides after four weeks. The bench also directed the state to file an affidavit on how "the allotment was done to the club and why it was chosen without going through the process of inviting tenders".
 
 The club advocate added that the plot was allotted on the condition that it be kept open to the public for three hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. The bench, referring to a similar case, said nothing changes in reality. "It looks good on paper. Same thing goes on. Then there are fights between the residents and the watchmen,'' said Justice Savant.
 
 
