It’s his third outing on television. And the show has achieved the rare feat of beating a 15-year-old   record by clocking a 13.86 rating.   which became one of the most popular shows on   television in recent times may have wrapped up earlier this month, but veteran actor  , who was one of the judges, continues to be inundated with praise for his turn-out on the show. Not to mention, there’ve been plenty of takeaways for him, too, after this stint.
 “Because for me, Comedy Khiladigalu wasn’t just about judging the contestants. I also gave them tips on living a virtuous life and bits of advice that can change their attitude towards acting. These are lessons that nobody will teach you at an acting school,” shares Jaggesh, who was joined by two other industry colleagues Yogaraj Bhat and Rakshitha Prem on the jury.
  He also has no qualms about accepting that he himself has learnt plenty on the show. “I probably haven’t seen this kind of work even during all my years in tinsel town...the kind of makeup, costumes and research that went into the making of this show left me wholly impressed. Being known for my comedy, I must confess that I, too was able to let go of old beliefs and absorb new styles when it comes to this genre,” avers Jaggesh, who feels any stint on   should be about learning and appreciating. “Which is why I never accept shows that concentrate on gimmicks instead of talent. I will only do shows that suit my stature; no amount of money can sway me,” he emphasises.
  In fact, the actor goes one step ahead and shares that he will never make the mistakes he has made in his movie career in the TV arena. “Now, I have coterie of friends who give me the right suggestions when it comes to making career moves. I won’t do TV just for time pass,” he adds.
  With a rich experience of movies and his keen observation of the TV industry, Jaggesh points out that television is today one of the most powerful mediums we have. “It has also showcased the real me to the audience. If I am hurt I express it and if I make a mistake, I apologise. I’ve done all of this on TV because it is all about reality... revealing the authentic you,” he sums up.
