MUMBAI: Even as a huge hue and cry has broken out in residential areas of south Mumbai over the new payand-park policy, the   (BMC) has clarified the policy is completely 'optional' in residential areas. However, the policy is in force for commercial parking lots, with civic officials trying to triple the numbers.

 The BMC said it will work to provide parking spots outside buildings (after getting an NOC from the traffic police) only if residents of the building apply for the same.
 
 BMC additional municipal commissioner   told TOI, “The scheme has been introduced to ensure systematic parking in the city . The residential   is optional. Once a society applies to us for a certain number of parking lots we would provide them with the same but only after getting an NOC from traffic police. The society's security will be expected to guard these parking lots.“
 
 The new pay-and-park scheme, initiated last week in 18 parking lots in the city's `A' ward, will be extended to another 91parking lots across the city for which tenders would be floated later this week.According to the policy's residential scheme, a car can be parked on the road from 8pm to 8am (night-time) for monthly charges varying between Rs 1,980 to Rs 660 as per the category . Day-time monthly charges will be in the range of Rs 3,960-1,320.However, only one slot will be available per car owner.
 
 Subhash Motwani, president of the   tion said they too are keen on finding an amicable solution to parking woes in their area.“While we are keen on a 24-hour parking space, the rates should be realistic and implementation too should be effective,“ said Motwani.
 
 Meanwhile, the traffic police has given the BMC a list of 450 locations across the city , which it identified as potential pay-and-park lots. Ward officials have been asked to check the feasibility of the same and the BMC plans to induct at least 300 of these into pay-and-park lots. The BMC plans to mark boxes at these locations and if a vehicle is parked outside these parking lots then traffic police would be authorized to tow them.
 
 On February 10, TOI was first to report the state government had lifted the stay over the pay-and-park policy.This move came just a week before the civic election code of conduct came into effect.
 
