"Yaak madam neevu ashtondu althira yavaglu?” is a question she’s often asked on meeting fans. And some, she adds, even hug, cry and empathise with her. ‘Naavidivi nim jothe’, they say and that’s truly heartening,” says the actor. Clearly, her on screen part Amritha has become Karnataka’s mane maglu and it’s all because of her turnout in the mega serial  . The serial has been on air for almost six years and  , who plays the iconic role of Amritha is one of the most popular female characters on   television today.
 “But you know what? I never set out to be a television actor. Basically, I’m a singer and was even part of an orchestra. I also enjoy dancing and eventually found myself doing advertisements. It was on the sets of one of the ads that I did for a beverage brand that my makeup man suggested that I try my luck in television. He told me that the makers of an upcoming mega serial were on the lookout for new female artistes and that’s how I ended up at the auditions for Amrithavarshini. There were 20 other girls waiting for their turn and they all left after handing over their pictures. I was asked to wait and having gone there at 8 am, I was still around when they finally asked me to audition at 4.30 pm. The director, Ravi Garani, was impressed and said that it was my patience that clinched the role for me. I was told that the character Amritha that I had to essay, had to be extremely resilient and patient. And since I had displayed those qualities that day, the team was keen on having me on board,” recalls Rajni. But the channel that was set to air the show wasn’t in agreement with the director’s choice. “They felt that I looked really tiny in front of the hero who was a six footer and that I looked like a small girl with him. Ravi Garani sir managed to convince them and in a week, I was on the sets shooting for my first   stint,” shares Rajni.
  Today, Amrithavarshini is one of the longest-running daily soaps. And Rajni, who plays the   on the show, is the epitome of the ideal sose — docile, sari clad, sporting a long jede bedecked with flowers, kunkuma and bottu and most importantly, abiding by her mother-in-law’s wishes. Also to note are the facts that she is usually dominated by her sister-in-law, the sister-in-law’s mother who is always plotting against her and has to constantly deal with the overbearing mother-in-law.
  Has Rajni never felt that she is furthering the image of girls being helpless and sending out the wrong message? “No. That’s because we feel that being a rebellion is the only way that a girl can win an argument or triumph a situation. But that’s not true. You can also win over people with love and patience. And that is what Amritha does. As for the mother-in-law, she wants Amritha to become stronger, which is why she is tough on her,” counters Rajni. She does point out that there was a time when the tough situations and melancholy that Amritha goes through in the serial got to her. “The emotional upheavals that the character undergoes was a lot. And living that character day in and day out sent me into a depression. I had withdrawn from people and would sit by myself even on the set. Thankfully, a dance reality show came my way and it helped me get out of that mode,” confesses Rajni.
  Today, she only chooses to look at the brighter side and that is the recognition the serial has given her. “There are umpteen shows on air. But I feel fortunate that our show has got so much love and that Amritha is a household favourite. It is what keeps me going even after all these years,” she sums up.
