Fans of Mollywood's biggest stars '   and   ' can go raving about each other's strengths but the actors themselves are detached from the one-upmanship of who is the best in the industry.

 Both Mammootty and Mohanlal blazed a trail of glory during the 80s and 90s that are mostly considered as the golden period of Malayalam film industry and have carved a unique niche for themselves not just in Mollywood but in Indian cinema. So much that competition has taken a backseat.
 Ask Mohanlal if he misses the 80s and 90s when the duo churned hits after hits, trying to outdo each other, and the superstar quickly denies, 'Healthy competition? There was never a competition between us. We have acted in 54 movies together. Chances of us competing for a movie now are also few because we have plenty of films.'
 
 The actor says that the duo has now different spaces in the industry. 'Roles that come to   are not meant for me and vice versa. I would never say we have competed against each other unless we are acting in the same movie and are putting tour de force performances to outwit each other,' he explains.
 
 Mohanlal goes on to add that South film industries have had a tradition for twin pole arrangement in the past and it worked out well. 'In Tamil, there was Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan. 
 
 Both have their own styles and there's no competition there. Similarly, both of us bring two different value additions to a movie.'
 On the expectations always surging for a Mammootty or Mohanlal movie, the actor says, 'My commitment as an actor is to do my role in the best way possible. I can't guarantee that my films will run for 100 days. A lot of people put in their effort to bring out a movie. When it becomes a hit, they say it's Mohanlal's film or Mammootty's film. A movie is not just about the stars, it has huge paraphernalia of people that make it work with the director at the helm, who should get the major credit.'
 
 Talking about the yesteryear ventures, the actor says, 'Our people like watching old movies. One thing I have noticed in contemporary films is that there's at least one scene or song that refers to yesteryear films such as Thoovanathumbikal or Chitram. So, there's still acceptance for those movies.' 
 
