JAIPUR/UDAIPUR: Heavy to very   at many places in the state badly affected normal life and vehicular traffic across the state. Several main highways and village roads remained inundated due to the overflow of water in Jalore, Udaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara and other districts of state. Salumbar (Udaipur) received a rainfall of 170 mm which was highest in the state, the met reports said on Sunday.

 Udaipur city and surrounding areas witnessed medium to heavy rainfall for the third consecutive day on Sunday and intermittent showers brought along miseries for people who found it difficult to commute in the rainy weather.
 
 A car was swept away in rain waters near a small dam under JawarMines police station area. One was reported dead while the rescue operation continued to save two of the passengers who had climb on top of the car. Even, on Saturday late night, a biker was swept away in Chhoti Veerva area under Jhallara police station who was rescued by villagers.
 
 Hydraulic machine from nearby mine was pressed into service to rescue the passengers who were washed away in the Tidi river near Naka puliya at Zawar mines, The rescue team managed to pull out the car and two men who had managed to climb on the roof of the vehicle while one who was trapped inside was declared dead in the hospital. The victim was identified as Pyarelal resident of Nehla village in Udaipur. Administration has issued warning to the public to keep away from water overflows on bridges and roads. 
 
  witnessed a cloudy and rainy day throughout as a rainfall of almost 63.1 mm was recorded in the city. Many low lying areas in Shastri Nagar, Jawahar Nagar Kachi Basti, Marampura and some parts of Sanganer witnessed heavy water logging. Natives of these areas were badly affected. What added to the woes of the people was the power cut as at many localities electricity went off for more than 3 hours in the evening. Jaipur met office further forecasted for a heavy rainfall during late night hours in the pink city,
 
  According to the sources, teams of national disaster relief force(NDRF) and state disaster relief force have been sent to Udaipur and Chittorgarh districts. “At many villagers where people are stuck are been taken to the safer places,” said an officer with the SDRF headquarters, Jaipur. 
 
  Heavy rainfall was witnessed at many places in the Udaipur division and a few places in Bharatpur, Kota, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Barmer and Jaisalmer districts of the state. Several inter-connecting village and hamlet roads were disconnected due to the rampant water logging in these regions.
 
 
