JAISALMER: CB-CID police and Sam police of Jaisalmer district in a joint campaign on Monday late night at a private tent resort detained a ‘suspicious’ Arabic person who was calling himself a private secretary of prince of Saudi Arabia. He was traced while talking on   phone with someone in Saudi Arabia.

 The officials are set to lodge case against Amir under Indian Telegraph Act for illegally using a satellite phone. Confirming this, CID Border Intelligence police additional SP   said a case will be filed under Telegraph Act against   for illegal use of satellite phone. 
 
 Police also nabbed four other suspicious persons of Indian origin. In the initial inquiry, the Arabic person said that he had come to do a recce for the forthcoming visit of Saudi Arabia prince. However, the intelligence and security agencies suspect that royal family of Arabia come to poach winter birds. At present the person is being interrogated.
 
 Jaisalmer SP Gaurav Yadav in this regard said, Amir Suleman Nazi, resident of Saudi Arabia, along with four other Indian friends Mohammad Alam from Amroha (UP),   from Jaipur, Mohammad Adil from Jodhpur, and Mohammad Hussain from Jodhpur, were staying at a private tent resort at Rojnion Ki Dhani in Sam area of Jaisalmer. 
 
 On Monday night, at around 9.30 pm, he spoke to someone in Saudi Arabia on satellite phone three-four times. Soon, information on his location was sought through NTRO (National Technical Research Organisation), and Sam police took him in custody at around 11 pm. During interrogation on Tuesday morning, it was known that Amir was from Saudi Arabia and he knew only Arabic language. Amir, during interrogation, also said that Saudi Arabian prince along with his family is set to visit Jaisalmer and therefore he had come here to do a recce of the area and take care of the initial arrangements. 
 
 Also, a case against tent resort owner Roze Khan will be filed under Foreigners Act as he did not get his foreign guest to make any entry or fill the required form that should have been deposited with the CID BI department. 
 
 However, a taxi driver  , who was caught along with these persons said that Amir did not have knowledge about prohibition on use of satellite phone in India. He said Amir is not a terrorist and that information on him can be taken from the prince from Saudi Arabia.
 
 
