KOCHI: The cold war between the state's police force and the state police complaints authority ( ) seems to be on the verge of flaring up with officers coming out publicly against the `harassment' by the entity .
A recent meet of the   at Kozhikode on Wednesday saw the Kozhikode south assistant commissioner K P   terming the authority an `irritant' and demanding the removal of Section 110 from the Kerala Police Act to put an end to the humiliation and harassment of cops by the authority .The convention was also attended by the DGP (north zone)  .
 
 “There are other mechanisms to deal with complaints against police personnel. The SPCA is constituted, over and above, the existing facilities like the human rights commission, the women's commission, the Lokayukta et al. Rather than acting from within its limitations, the authority is wasting the valuable time of officers by going beyond its powers,“ Abdul Razak told TOI.
 
 “My subordinate station house officers (SHOs) have been summoned more than five times to even places outside the district. There should be systems to streamline the work of the SPCA as there is still no clarity in method of depositions and summoning of officers,“ said Razak.
 
 Razak said the SPCA is putting down the morale of the officers.“The powers of the authority are limited to recommendations. This being the case, what is the necessity of having it when there are other legal enti ties that the public can approach with the complaints against police,“ said Razak.
 
 Sources in Kerala police association said that there is substance in the allegations raised by the officer at the police meet. “A good portion of the cases that comes before the SPCA are filed by accused persons to get away with the crime. The interference sometimes even affects investigation,“ said an officer with the association.
 
 “Legal entities including the SPCA are necessary in today's society . The functioning of these entities should be from within the limitations of powers allotted for them. It will not be beneficial for anyone if they exert powers that they don't have and use it to threaten officers,“ said C R  , general secretary of the police officer's association. Police officials said there are instances when the authority threatened to suspend officers bringing down their morale. “In a recent incident, an accused was admitted to the hospital and the doctors had given a clean health certificate.But they were forced into admitting him to the ICU after the chairman threatened them. There are also instances of the SPCA harassing officers after summoning them,“ said a senior officer. Police officials also alleged that the SPCA chief is trying to attract media attention.
 
 “SPCA is formed to alert and recommend action against officers who are at fault. However, threatening them of suspension is not ideal,“ said Biju.
 
