NEW DELHI: After killing a six-year-old boy, the suspect, a 19-year-old man, claimed that the boy frequently spied on his bathing wife and angered him. He said he took the child to his room in   in   on September 27, where he banged his head on the bed and then smothered him to death .

 Police said on Friday that after his arrest, the youth had confessed he had actually meant to get back the Rs 20,000 that the child’s father owed him. He told the cops that he had abducted the child, intending to hold him hostage till he got the money from the father. However, when the kid created a ruckus, the incensed youth threw him against the wall, during which the child died after injuring his head.
 
 The panicked man and his wife shoved the boy’s body into a sack that they threw into the box bed before disappearing from the area. The corpse was discovered on Friday. The cops said that the child did not appear to have been sexually assaulted, but said they could confirm this only after the autopsy.
 
 The family of the boy informed police that the six-year-old had gone missing since 4pm that day. The child’s father works is a small-time contractor. He lived with his wife and three sons in Rajeev Camp. According to  , DCP (South-east), an FIR was immediately registered at   police station and a search carried out in and around the neighbourhood. However, the boy could not be located.
 
 On Friday, police got a call around 9.43am about the body of the missing kid having been found in a house in the same locality. Noticing the stench emanating from his neighbour’s locked house, a resident had alerted the cops. The body was in a plastic sack stowed inside the bed box, the mouth gagged with a piece of black cloth.
 
 A special team led by  , SHO of Okhla police station, undertook the investigation. When police noticed the name “Rukmani” stamped on the sack, they inquired around and were told that a woman named Rukmani lived in the locked house with her son Rohit.
 
 The cops learnt that it was a practice in the locality for the shopkeepers to write the names of their customers on such sacks, which were left at the shops with grocery lists that the residents collected later. At one shop, the owner confirmed that a few days earlier Rohit had taken atta in the bag in question. When Rohit was found missing, he became the prime suspect. A manhunt led to his arrest.
 
