PATNA: A   ministry-sponsored team of three personnel was in town on Friday and Saturday, anonymously surveying Patna and randomly questioning Patnaites on civic issues. That was part of  , the results of which will be declared by February end. 

 The ‘sarvekshan’ covers 500 cities competing against one another for central funds for development under the Centre’s  . There were only 73 competitors last year, and Patna had ranked a poor 70th in the survey.
 
 “This year, however, Patna is in a much better position so far,”   (PMC)’s commissioner Abhishek Singh told TOI on Saturday.
 
 The Union ministry has mandated the   (QCI), an autonomous government body, to conduct the survey. Their three-member team landed in Patna on Friday. While two of them fanned out to various localities to get inputs from people, the third member was busy poring over the PMC claims at the civic body’s office.
 
 “They had the city profile in their tab. They randomly visited localities and uploaded the information to their office site, which was to be subsequently forwarded to the Union ministry,” Singh said, adding Patna was likely to fare well in the Swachh Sarvekshan, except in the category of ‘participation of citizens’.
 
 According to sources, the Swachh Sarvekshan survey containing 2,000 marks is divided into three parts. One is of 900 marks to be awarded against the data provided by the municipal body, which includes number of toilets, garbage cleaning and solid waste disposal etc.
 
 Another part is of 500 marks to be awarded against the kind of data collected through direct observation and independent assessment. The third part is of 600 marks for citizen’s feedback, which includes people’s feedback on toll-free number 1969 or 1800111969 or on ‘Swachhta’ app.
 
 The PMC commissioner urged Patnaites to give their feedback in large numbers and help their civic body score well. “If anyone gives a call on the toll-free number, s/he will get back a call and asked PIN code and six questions related to civic amenities,” Singh explained and added by taking time off for this brief exercise, people could help their own Patna better its rank.
 
 February 12 is the last day for citizens to give their feedback, it may be mentioned.
 
