MANGALURU: After protests by the residents of Sasthan in Udupi district, it is now the turn of their counterparts in Talapady to oppose levy of toll on the   stretch of NH 66. With   already having taken cudgels with the National Highways Authority of India in this regard earlier, it was the turn of the Karnataka Gadinadu   on Monday to inform Navayuga Toll Way Pvt Ltd (NTPL) that locals will not allow them to collect toll till the project is complete.

 Siddiq Talapady, president of the vedike, said it makes no sense that NTPL will collect toll unless the service roads are in place. Contending that only 40% of the work between Talapady and Nanthoor stretch is complete, he said work on crucial road over bridge at Thokkottu and Pumpwell (Mahavir) Circle is progressing at a snail’s pace. Lack of service roads at critical stretches is forcing motorists to risk their lives to enter the National Highway from the connecting hinterland roads.
 
 Blaming the lack of coordination and understanding between NHAI and NTPL for the current mess and travails that the locals at Talapady are facing, Siddiq said the authority and the concessionaire are yet to sort out many issues that could lead to easing of the situation. “We are not asking either NHAI or NTPL for anything extra that what the tender conditions state and these are basic facilities that should be in place before NTPL can go ahead and collect toll,” he said.
 
 Since Talapady borders Kerala and Karnataka, it is a nerve centre for residents of places bordering the two states to go about their daily business. NHAI and the NTPL must work out a mechanism to exempt the locals from paying toll, he said. NHAI must take steps to expeditiously settle compensation claims of those who have given up their building or land to facilitate the project and also address issues that are leading to fatal accidents on this stretch, he demanded.
 
 The lack of adequate streetlights from   to Talapady rivulet too should be addressed and debris accumulated in the rivulet should be cleared to prevent chances of artificial flooding. Siddiq said the locals are united in their efforts to ensure that NTPL and NHAI resolve their differences and ensure that the project is completed in right earnestness. The people will have no qualms in paying toll for a fully complete road, Siddiq pointed.
 
