Nagpur: At the makeshift camp inside the district health office compound, popularly known as Mata Kacheri, at Laxmi Nagar, the weak build and blank faces of the men mark them out as different from others. Coming from Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh, they have gathered in the city for the Dhamma Chakra Pravartan event at Deekshabhoomi. The group of over 50 families is among regular visitors from other states to the annual congregation here. The social stigma Dalits faced decades ago is no longer there. However, many are still marginalized on the economic front, and are facing a new crisis in the cow belt these days. After the ban on cow slaughter, there has been a problem of plenty of the bovine. The hinterland is infested with unproductive cattle abandoned by their owners. The cows have now become a new cause of crop damage. Majority of these men have small holdings, and cattle eating away the meagre crop, leaves them bleeding, they said. “The chana (gram) had hardly grown, and the cows finished it all. There is hardly anything left even for the family to consume,” said Ram Dulari Devi of Kisripur village in Sitapur district. “My sugar cane crop too was damaged, when it had barely grown a feet,” said Raju Gautam of Arua village in the same district. The problem started after the ban on cow slaughter. Cows that are no longer productive cannot be sold for slaughter, since it would invite the ire of the gau rakshaks (cow conservationists). So the herdsmen have simply let them free. Even some milk producing cows and calves have been set free. The animals graze freely in the fields, with little chance of stopping them, said Hemnath Gautam. The big farmers can easily fence their fields, but the marginal cultivator cannot afford this. Many in the group hardly have a single acre of farm. The number of cows abandoned is anywhere between 20 to 100 in a village, said one of the visitors in the group. “The activists immediately spring into action if they find people setting up fences. They allege farmers are trying to kill the cattle with electrified fences. When the situation gets worse, the residents of one village load the cows in a truck and dump them near another village under the cover of darkness. When caught, it leads to clashes,” added Hemnath Gautam. “A bull had gored a young man in our village, and such a risk is always there, but nothing has been done,” said Shivbal Gautam, another member of the group. The government keeps saying that gaushalas (cow shelters) will be built, but nothing has happened so far, he said. “Even the dead cattle are left to rot,” added one of them. Nobody takes cognisance of their complaints,they said