PATNA: Deputy chief minister   inaugurated the   alongside the   on Saturday. Only one-way traffic movement is allowed on the   and it would remain closed in night hours (6pm to 6am) due to absence of lights on it.

 The pontoon bridge has been constructed to pave way for rehabilitation of Gandhi Setu. The existing superstructure of the dilapidated Setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders, as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like Rajendra Setu or Koelwar rail bridge, would be erected under the rehabilitation process.
 
 Tejashwi inaugurated the pontoon bridge at the northern end of the Setu at Chaukia village in Hajipur, which falls under his assembly constituency Raghopur. He was accompanied by his elder brother and health and forest department minister Tej Pratap Yadav and senior officials of road construction department and Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL).
 
 BRPNNL officials said the pontoon bridge is 1.98km long and it has been constructed by Patna-based Shrishti Developers Pvt Ltd. The approach road for the bridge starts from Alamganj police station on Patna side and Gandhi Setu police station in Hajipur.
 
 Apart from the bridge inaugurated on Saturday, another pontoon bridge is being constructed parallel to it. Senior officials in BRPNNL said the second pontoon bridge is expected to be made ready by the end of April. The combined cost of both pontoon bridges along with approach road is Rs 89 crore. However, both the bridges would be dismantled around June-July due to rise in water level in Ganga with onset of monsoon.
 
 “The bridge, which was inaugurated on Saturday, has been made ready in a short period of four months. The pontoon bridges are being developed to facilitate smooth traffic movement during the rehabilitation of Gandhi Setu and to ensure   between north and south Bihar over the Ganga,” said Tejashwi.
 
 He added that the road deck of Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge and Ara-Chhapra bridge would also be opened for traffic on June 11. “We want to gift the two bridges to people of Bihar on the occasion of birth anniversary of RJD chief Lalu Prasad on June 11,” said Tejashwi.
 
 Though both road and rail deck of Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge were constructed in 2015 and movement of passenger trains also commenced from February last year, the road deck is still to be opened for traffic due to delay in construction of approach roads.
 
 The foundation stone for the four-lane Babura (Ara)-Doriganj (Chhapra) bridge, on the other hand, was laid in July 2010 by chief minister Nitish Kumar and deadline for completion of the same was June 2015. 
 
