NEW DELHI: Is selection of advocate Chinnaswamy Swaminathan   as a judge by the two-tier collegium a sad reflection on its ability to hunt talent for the judiciary? Would the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC), which the   quashed as unconstitutional, have been a better process to select judges to constitutional courts?

 These questions were hotly debated by advocates in the SC corridors immediately after a seven-judge bench headed by CJI J S Khehar convicted Justice Karnan, a siting judge of Calcutta HC, of contempt and sentenced him to six months imprisonment. Though one of the judges wrote in the file relating to Justice Karnan’s selection as a judge of Madras HC that “he is well conversant with all branches of law”, it appears that he was not too well conversant with the contempt of court law and after becoming a judge, he forgot the consequences of defying the SC’s orders.
 
 Justice Karnan’s name figured among the 14 selected in September 2008 by the Madras HC collegium comprising then Chief Justice A K Ganguly and Justices P K Mishra and S J Mukhopadhaya. Justices Ganguly and Mukhopadhaya later became SC judges while Justice Mishra retired as Patna HC chief justice and was appointed as   last year.
 
 The names reached the then SC collegium consisting of then CJI K G Balakrishnan and Justices B N Agrawal and Arijit Pasayat. Before putting the names before the SC collegium, CJI Balakrishnan had sought the views of consulting judges — Justices Markandey Katju, V S Sirpurkar and P Sathasivam, all of whom had a stint in Madras HC as chief justice or judge.
 
 Justice Katju said, “I approve all 14 names” for appointment as judges to Madras HC. Justice Sirpurkar wrote he had “no objection to any name”. Justice Sathasivam recommended Karnan’s appointment saying he belonged to the Dalit community and was “well conversant with all branches of law”. The favourable opinion of consulting judges cleared the path for Karnan’s appointment as a judge of Madras high court in March 2009.
 
 On March 17, TOI had spoken to judges who were part of the SC collegium in March 2009 but none of them had any recollection about Karnan’s traits. “It is eight long years ago. As collegium members, we must be selected over 100 persons for appointment as judges. We mostly go by the recommendations of the HC collegium comprising the chief justice and two senior most judges.
 
 Before approving the recommendation, we do take the opinion of SC judges who associated with the HC to which the appointment is recommended,” they said. They also said, “There is an unwritten convention in Madras HC collegium to give opportunities to advocates from Dalit category to become judges despite the fact that there is no reservation in such appointments. Karnan always felt he was being targeted because of his Dalit background and targeted his colleague judges for this. At the same time, he did not spare other judges who like him also belonged to the Dalit community.”
 
 On February 8, the SC had drawn contempt proceedings against Karnan for his January 23 complaint to the   director seeking investigation into corruption charges against 20 sitting and retired SCand HC judges.
 
 
