

 It lies hidden in obscurity . With tall trees all around and people lying on the grass, the park in Sector 9-D, which silently tells the story of the origin of India's first ever planned city , seems remarkably unremarkable. The   who come to the park for an afternoon stroll know about a 'black stone' in the centre of the park, which gives glimpse into its historical significance, but most have never bothered to find out what it actually reads.
 
 The City Beautiful has changed a lot since its foundation stone was laid in this park by then Prime Minister   in 1952.Sector 9D which surrounds the park has also undergone changes, many of which the residents of the locality do not approve of. The string of showrooms in Madhya Marg, near the area, has outshone the primitive cluster of shops which once used to be the only place to fetch products of daily need. The ease of connectivity that Madhya Marg offers seems to have taken a toll on the peace that the residents were used to.
 
 “A lot of nuisance takes place in the area now. A few days back a group of youngsters showed up with beer bottles in the evening.They entered the park and partied there till late at night," says  , a resident of Sector 9-D. Having been a resident of the sector for more than 40 years, she recalls how serene the locality used to be.
 
 “We used to go out whenever we wanted. Many a time we would climb a top the Nehru tower that used to be there in the park, but was mysteriously burnt down. The tower used to offer a sight of not just the Chandigarh, but much beyond,“ says  , Vibha's sister-in-law explaining how the black stone is erected in the park commemorating the tower that used to be in its place. The Nehru tower that once stood was used as a landmark by the residents, she added.
 
 Tejinder Singh Randhawa, nephew of M S Randhawa, the first chief commissioner of Chandigarh, reit erating the details given by Vibha Aggarwal, says, “Nobody knows how it was brought down. After the tower was gone, the entire structure around it was demolished. Later, a new tower like structure was constructed but at a different place in the park.“ Tejinder, who lives in the same locality with the rest of the Randhawa family , says he does not know about the significance of the new tower. “M S Randhawa got the foundation stone laid in the place of the original tower where Nehru had climbed and seen the layout of the city that was to be constructed,“ he adds.
 
 Randhawa also mentions about the unkempt state of the park in front of his house. Despite the frequent requests for improving the condition of the park, the authorities pay no heed, he says. The park where the idea of the city started taking shape is lost in urban filth, from crushed plastic cups, empty ice cream wrappers, crumpled aluminum foils, food cartons, and torn cigarette packets. Stray dogs could be seen roaming around in the park. People who work nearby are a regular there but are ignorant about its historical significance too.
 
 Sanjeev Kumar, an employee at a nearby office, says, “There is no signage around the park. How will people know? Moreover it is dirtier as compared to other parks. It comes under the municipality and the horticulture department. No efforts are made to keep it clean.“
 
 Former Chandigarh MP Harmohan Dhawan, also residing in Sector 9 emphasizes that in a `city of gardens', the park, which is often referred to as Lily garden stands as an exception. “The Lily garden sans lily,"he says.
 
 According to him, dumping waste in the open has led to increase the number of stray dogs in the locality and also in the park. “There is no accountability ,“ he rues.
 
 Munna Singh, a washerman, who set up his shop next to the park 28 years ago, says, people come here to have a drink after their work. “The residents have hence ceased going out for walks in the evening.“
 
 Vibha Aggarwal, however men tions the other reason behind residents preferring to sit back at home instead of going out now-a-days.“Years back, evening stroll was the main mode of recreation. We used to meet people and chat up. People now have other sources of entertainment, which they can access from their air-conditioned homes.Hence, they are not willing to step out,“ she says.
 
 Sector 9, with its history going back to the 50s stands as an example of how a city as young as Chandigarh can also change and leave whatever little history it has neglected. The residents of the area who have lived for more than three decades here are the only ones to bear a testimony to the extent of transformation in the place and attitude of people.
 
 If you feel your neighbourhood has metamorphosed into a place completely different from what it was when you started living or working there, then drop in your memories at feedback.chandigarhtimes@gmail.com
 
