RUDRAPUR: With the filing of nominations commencing on Friday, the Udham Singh Nagar administration booked 64 anti-social elements under the Goonda Act and expelled them from the district, invoking Section 144 (power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance of apprehended danger) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) for peaceful, free and fair elections, scheduled on February 15.   The administration has also cancelled firearm licences of 27 people.    Besides 64, police have identified hundreds of other people, who can create nuisance during the upcoming assembly elections, and issued notices asking them to appear before their respective sub-divisional magistrates (SDM) within a week.    District magistrate (DM) Chandresh Kumar Yadav told TOI, “People have already started depositing their firearms at various police stations. The deposited arms will be kept safe till the completion of the elections. Besides, police have detained 10,900 anti-social elements under relevant sections of the Police Act as a precautionary measure to thwart any move by them to disrupt peace or poll-related activities.”    Meanwhile, the DM and ADM Pratap Singh Shah held meetings with zonal and sector magistrates, and briefed them about their duties and conducting elections.    Directing the officials to ensure strict compliance of the model code of conduct in their respective areas, Yadav said the department had constituted three teams for each assembly constituencies in the district for conducting inspection and impounding vehicles carrying more than Rs 50,000 unaccounted cash.    Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Abudeyi KS said, “Nearly 11,000 suspects are required to sign a surety bond, assuring that they will not breach peace during the polls. An SDM can summon them under Sections 107/16 of the CrPc (an offence that invites police action in anticipation of possible ‘breach of peace’ against a person). Besides, special barriers will be laid at the state’s borders to check vehicles entering from neighbouring states like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, and bordering country Nepal.”    “Confiscating liquor bottles for distribution during electioneering will be an area we will be focusing on, since it is a gross violation of the poll code. Thus far, we have registered 62 cases for prohibition-related offences and have seized 18 vehicles. I have formed special teams to execute arrest warrants pending against absconding criminals,” ASP Manjunath TC told TOI.    “Besides, we have booked 300 history-sheeters under Section 110G of the CrPc and arrested 310 people under Section 151 (peace maintaining act) of IPC,” Manjunath added.