Calcutta high court on Friday came down heavily on the   Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) Board for its “callousness and lackadaisical attitude“ in the conduct of WBJEE (medical) examination, 2016.

 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty directed the   to deposit a sum of Rs 5 lakh with the registrar of   (CU) as “cost“ for mishandling the examination. The bench further directed that the CU registrar should spend the sum for the benefit of poor and meritorious students. The court, however, did not cancel the examination.
 
 The court was responding to a PIL filed by Raj Kumar Mukherjee, an examinee who contended that the manner of conducting the examination was “totally illegal and mala fide“ right from setting of question papers for the examination to publication of results.“Some students did not fill up their OMR sheets properly.
 
 Besides, the questions in physics and chemistry papers were not in sequence. When examinees pointed out these anomalies, the board did not take steps to rectify the lapse and published the results,“ the petition stated. It also alleged, “The board played with the destinies of thousands of examinees who appeared in the examination to fill 2,400 medical seats in different medical colleges in the state.“
 
 Appearing for the petitioner, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya argued in court that the examination should be cancelled as the board had failed to conduct it in a proper manner. WBJEE Board's counsel Tapan Mukherjee rejected the petitioner's contention that there were irregularities or illegalities in the conduct of the examination. Mukherjee, instead, argued that the examination had been conducted following all norms of the board.
 
 After hearing both sides, the division bench delivered its judgment imposing “cost“ on the WBJEE Board after issuing strictures against it for the manner in which the examination was conducted.
 
 On August 26, 2016, hundreds of medical aspirants mobbed the WBJEE Board's office at Rajarhat, demanding that the board should publish marks obtained by students alongside their ranks. On September 2, 2016, the WBJEE Board published the merit list of 4,000 successful candidates that did not reflect the marks obtained by them. Instead, the board asked students to assess their scores by uploading model answer keys on its website. This left aspirants agitated.
 
 
 
 
 Hearing a PIL by one Samir Ghosh, a WBJEE (medical) 2016 examinee, the division bench directed the central and state governments to monitor expenditure of educational grants to the Al-Ameen Mission to ensure the funds are utilised properly. The PIL alleged that there is lack of transparency in the manner the mission spends its grants.
 
