MUMBAI: If the worst fears of the members of the   came true with the January 2-3 order of the  , things are about to get messier for them at the turn of the month.

 Only this time, it'll leave the financial interests of Indian cricket in tatters too.
 
 With the sacking of almost every senior administrator, the BCCI is unlikely to have a proper representative at the board and chief executives meeting of the International Cricket Council (ICC) on February 1 in Dubai. In such a scenario, member boards of the ICC - chiefly the England & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) and Cricket Australia (CA) - who have been pushing for a new revenue model based on redistribution of revenue earned from world cricket rights will finally find the opportunity to push their interest in India's absence.
 
 After taking over as the first independent chairman of the ICC,   had dealt the BCCI's interests a big blow when he brought down India's share from the global revenues of the game from 22% to 15%. Later, in the run-up to the ICC Board meeting in Cape Town last October, the parent body of the sport saw Australia, England and South African boards pushing for a consolidated revenue model of global cricket rights under which the rights of the game from across the world would be pooled and distributed.
 
 India, by virtue of bringing the lion's share to the table, had been objecting to the model which had led to a stand-off between the BCCI and the ICC chairman. BCCI's contention had always been that since Indian cricket brought the highest share of revenue to the ICC, there was no logic in sharing it with member boards who depended on BCCI for survival.
 
 The ICC, it should be noted, had kept the BCCI out of the newly formed Working Group that met thrice last year to discuss the revenue distribution. Decisions taken at these Working Group meetings - last during the day & night Test in Adelaide - would be brought up at the ICC Board meeting for ratification.
 
 It was ex-BCCI chief   who had first fought for India's rights at the ICC after taking over as chairman in 2013-14 when he introduced the 'Big Three' finance and revenue model that was based on the philosophy that a member board would get to earn according to what it brought to table in terms of revenues. The entire process underwent a change, to BCCI's dismay, when Manohar took over.
 
 Anurag Thakur, the next BCCI president after Manohar, kept the fight going and objected to the change at the ICC Board meeting last year. However, this time, with no representative from BCCI likely to attend the ICC meeting, Manohar could possibly have the last laugh.
 
 BCCI CEO  , who is now heading the Indian board for all practical purposes, could attend the ICC meeting on India's behalf. However, not having attended any of its Board meetings in the past - considering the chief executive cannot represent member boards at Board meeting ­ Johri will neither have the authority nor the required experience to continue BCCI's fight.
 
