MUMBAI: The state   (FDA) has begun scrutinising orthopaedic implants used in private medical colleges to ascertain if they are sourced from licensed agents. As part of the ongoing crackdown on the illegal medical device industry , the FDA has seized unlicensed implants worth over Rs 7 crore in the last three weeks.

 Confirming this, FDA commissioner   said, “We are checking papers of D Y Patil and MGM medical colleges. We may extend this investigation to more private institutes in the coming weeks.“ He said that the raids have not just exposed a well-oiled network of illegal manufacturers, distributors and hospitals, but even a deep involvement of doctors.
 
 An investigation into the illegal implant industry began after the FDA uncovered a racket operating from the premises of GT Hospital on February 2. The investigation has now spread to more than eight districts. Unlicensed orthopaedic implants costing nearly half a lakh was seized from five firms in the city .“Within Mumbai, the unlicensed implants seem to have been used mainly in the JJ group of hospitals that include   and GT. A thorough investigation is being carried out,“ said an FDA official. The direct involvement of doctors in facilitating the parallel device industry is also is being probed into.
 
 So far, only the role of one orthopaedic surgeon from an   hospital has been established. Kamble said, “We found out that the doctor himself was supplying the unlicensed implants to the hospital.“
 
 The drug regulatory body has come across scores of illegal units, including a major one in Thane, that have invested heavily in machinery to make orthopaedic implants, but operate without a licence.
 
 “This racket cannot work without the active involvement of doctors,“ said Kamble. Explaining the modus operandi, he said, the implants are customized and delivered to hospitals as per the instructions of doctors. “Most don't go though any quality checks,“ he said, adding that the FDA has started testing some of the metal implants. These implants are mainly used for fractures, hip and knee replacements.
 
 A distributor in Grant Road was purchasing the products from an unlicensed source in Beed and supplying to several pharmacies in the city, including one opposite the   in Parel. An FDA official, however, said that KEM Hospital was using implants from licensed dealers and they had every record to show for it.
 
