Mumbai:   has put the brakes on   Bank’s quarterly net profit expansion, growing at its slowest space since 2001. For the October-December period, the bank reported a net profit of Rs 3,865 crore, up 15% from the corresponding quarter last year.

 Historically, the bank has been growing its quarterly profits by at least 20% year on year. However, for the quarter ended December, fee income took a hit as charges on both debit card payments and   withdrawals were suspended. The bank also lost out on interest margins as, for some time, the money raised from surplus deposits were impounded with the   in the form of cash reserve ratio.
 
 While low-cost deposits did surge, its impact on the balance sheet was partly offset by the redemption of $3 billion worth of foreign currency deposits during the quarter. The RBI had asked banks to raise these special deposits, where the forex risk was partly borne by the central bank, in order to boost the supply of dollars when the rupee came under pressure in 2013.
 
 “The results for the quarter were broadly in line with expectations. While PAT growth of 15% looks lower when compared to the historical trend of HDFC Bank, given the slowdown due to demonetisation, the results by   can be considered decent enough,” said Siddharth Purohit, senior equity research analyst (banking), Angel Broking. “What is worth noting is that in this quarter again HDFC Bank has been able to maintain a stable set of asset quality and we don’t see this worsening in the near term.”
 
 Total deposits as of December 31 were Rs 6,34,705 crore, an increase of 21.1% over the year-ago period. This was after considering maturities of about $3 billion of foreign currency non-resident (FCNR) deposits raised (and swapped into rupees with the RBI at a concessional rate) during the quarter ended December 31, 2013.
 
 Announcing the results, Paresh Sukhthankar, deputy MD, HDFC Bank, said that with lending rates coming down the difference between the cost of borrowing through bonds and loans has narrowed. As a result, he expected corporates who had moved to the money market to again start borrowing.
 
 Current and savings account (CASA) deposit growth saw a spurt, largely attributable to the demonetisation exercise, with current account deposits growing by nearly 37% over the previous year to reach Rs 1,01,239 crore and savings account deposits growing by almost 38% over the previous year to reach Rs 1,86,634 crore. Time deposits were at Rs 3,46,832 crore, an increase of 10.3% over the previous year, resulting in CASA proportion of 45% as on December 31.
 
 Total advances as of end-December were Rs 4,95,043 crore after considering repayments of about $2 billion of overseas loans linked to FCNR deposits. The bank’s domestic loan portfolio of Rs 4,77,415 crore grew at 17.5% on a year-on-year basis.
 
 
