JAMSHEDPUR:   fortified the   in   when chief minister   visited the place on Wednesday to lay the foundation stone of the Rs 230 crore   at Rangamati-Silli road and Milan Chowk-Adardih. 

 The administration made effective security arrangements to prevent any form of mischief by unruly elements, as compared to the January 1 incident of Rajkharswan located nearly 40km from Chandil in the same district, as JMM announced to oppose the CM's visit as a mark of their protest to the state government's stance on CNT and SPT laws. 
 
 The CM, who spent nearly an hour at the venue was tightly protected by the security guards while the police personnel deployed in large strength minutely searched the pockets of each and every individual attending the function. 
 
 "Road, electricity and health are three primary subjects of the present government and we are working honestly, to achieve them," the CM said while laying the foundation stone. Mentioning about the various welfare programmes introduced by the government, the CM said, "Development of the last man in the row is the objective of my government." 
 
 Nearly two dozen CCTV cameras recorded the developments at the ground, senior police and civil officials were seen recording the day's events in their mobile-phones too. 
 
 In addition to this, door-frame metal detector sensor machines were put up on the entry route and security personnel frisked the crowd with hand-metal-detector device.
 
 With an aim to ensure there's no let down in the security, police from 5 companies of outside districts were roped in along with the district armed force and paramilitary that was deployed for the day's event. 
 
 "The purpose behind the deployment of security forces was to ensure a peaceful event and accordingly things rolled out," said Sandeep Bhagat, SDPO Chandil. 
 
 In a response to a query pertaining to moderate protest by JMM activists who waved small pieces of black cloth from a distance when the CM was on board to the chopper to take off, the police said, "We have conducted video recording of the programme and there's no visual of anyone waving black flag," Bhagat said. 
 
 Earlier this year, a section of the crowd comprising of tribals chanted anti-government slogans, showed black flags and hurled a shoe at the CM when he reached Shahid Park in Kharswan to pay tributes to statehood martyrs on the first day of January in protest against the amendment to the tenancy laws made by the Das government. 
 
 
