Early this week, the city’s   community gathered to partake in the ‘Seder’ at Succath Shelomo   (Rasta Peth) and Ohel David Synagogue (Moledina Road). This special ritual feast is at the heart of the Jewish festival of  , that is on till April 18. More importantly, it is also a chance for the community to convene and rejoice...

 
 
 Seder, which means ‘order’ in Hebrew, is when the community recollects the deliverance of the Hebrews from slavery in Egypt, says Leora Micah Joseph. “Seders are usually done at home with the family, but many Jewish communities (including those in India) hold community Passover Seders so that more people can participate,” adds Leora, an active member of the Mumbai Jewish community. 
 According to Dr Nathan M Aston, Former Principal of Nowrosjee Wadia College and a senior member of the Pune Jewish community, the   involves fifteen meticulous parts, the details of which are in the ‘Haggadah’, a Jewish text.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 This is a key part of the Passover Seder, containing foods symbolic of the deliverance story. Dr Nathan M Aston says, “The seder plate is 
 usually made from silver.” He explains its elements...
 Marror: A bitter herb that reminds Jews of their lives in Egypt. It is dipped in haroset, a sweet mixture of apples, wine and nuts. (According to Leora, the Bene Israel Jewish community prepares haroset with dates)
  Matzah: Unleavened bread
  Beitzah: A hard boiled egg
  Zaroa: Shank of a lamb. It symbolises the Passover sacrifice
  Karpas: A vegetable other than bitter herbs (parsley, celery or cooked potato). It is dipped in salt water (or lemon juice)
 
 
 
 Passover is synonymous with eating matzah, or unleavened bread. Leora says, “When the Hebrews were commanded to leave Egypt, they had to pack their belongings immediately. There was no time to even wait for the dough to rise. So, they carried unleavened bread with them. We eat this to 
 remember their hasty departure from Egypt.” Joycee adds, “Matzah is still made locally in some Bene Israel homes here. The process should be done within 18 minutes, so that the dough has no time to rise.”
 
 
 
 Four cups of wine are had at different parts of the Seder. Interestingly, when they do, the community drinks this wine leaning to the left. “This is symbolic of the fact that we aren’t slaves anymore,” says Joycee.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 These may begin almost a month in advance, says Koregaon Park resident Joycee Nowgaonkar. “Foods not permitted during Passover are given away or stored elsewhere,” she adds. 
 The utensils are also purified in boiling water to make them ‘kosher’ (fit for use according to Jewish law). Some homes maintain separate dinner, tea and utensil sets, used only during Passover. Leora says, “My grandmother stored her Passover crockery in a wooden trunk. They were brought out, cleaned and utilised only during the festival. They then went back into the wooden trunk.”
 
 
 
 According to scriptures, prophet Moses led the Jews out of slavery in Egypt into the Holy Land that God had promised them. This escape of the Jews from Egypt is remembered by the community every year during Passover.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 (Pics: Nikhil Vidyasagar)
 
