LUCKNOW: With the dates of nomination drawing closer, chief minister   is reportedly ready to go his separate way even at the cost of being called a rebel. Sources told TOI that the entire campaign plan of the Akhilesh camp is ready and they are waiting for January 13 when the   takes a final call on who gets the bicycle symbol -- the Akhilesh camp or the rival group, led by his father   and  .

 Undeterred by the family feud raging for the past three months and subsequent bickering in the  , Akhilesh he is fully prepared to campaign alone. “Cycle or motorcycle whatever be the symbol, election campaign material is ready,” his close confidant revealed to TOI. The CM himself is monitoring and finalizing the campaigns for TV, newspapers, magazines and most importantly social media, he said.
 
 In case of a change in the symbol, minor modifications would be brought in his rath, which is yet to has so far been halted by the family feud. “An alternative plan to tour all 403 constituencies is also in place just in case a pre-poll alliance with Congress doesn’t materialise. Apart from EC’s decision, he is also waiting for one final word from his father. He is confident, he would allow him a three-month period to run the party,” his associates say.
 
 “If Akhilesh always wanted to grow under the blessings of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and return to power post 2017 polls, but at the same time he was determined to expose the coterie surrounding him . But Netaji did not want to leave that coterie which poisoned his mind against him, so there is no option left with Akhilesh , except to rebel and shed the entire past baggage of the party,” one of Akhilesh’s aides explains, adding “ he is being being actively supported by his wife Dimple.”
 
 Sources say bthat on the basis of ground reports and feedback collected by image-maker Steve Jarding’s team, Akhilesh is confident that his vision for development has worked well within the state and rebelling against “over shadowing chachas and uncles” would pay off in elections as he also enjoys an unblemished image.
 
 In an interview to TOI in September, when the family feud had just started, Akhilesh said: “When I was a child, none had given me even a name. My father was busy with his political struggle those days, so my name Akhilesh was registered in school by a primary teacher.” In a candid acceptance, he had also said that he had been struggling alone despite being in the crowd and decided his own journey. “I would not wait for any one and spearhead the election campaign all alone on my rath,” he said, referring to the power struggle in the family. 
 
 That time, his supporters say, has come. Akhilesh feels that while the political innings of the others in the family is nearing an end he has miles to go. “He is ready for the gamble to plunge into the elections as a rebel against corruption and criminalization. He first wanted to bring about a change within the party. But if it is not possible then he would break the shackles,” says his associate.
 
