LUDHIANA: The   is continuously making every effort for the ethical use of voting for the upcoming Punjab State Assembly Elections- 2017. Under Sveep Activities, people of Ludhiana are in the process of setting up of two records. Continuing the chain of  , more than 2500 people will   with their  . They will also spread the message of ethical use of vote by making a human chain of 150 km length. 

 Regarding this, deputy commissioner Ravi Bhagat said that more than 2500 voters ( mostly the first time voters) would assemble at Indor Stadium, Pakhowal Road, and take selfies with their voter cards on January 30. Physically handicapped artists will present cultural programme ‘Miracle on Wheels’ and Gatka team will show the skills of Gatka on this occasion. To inspire and motivate the participants, Chief Election Officer Punjab . V.K.Singh will also be present. Bhagat said that voters must take their voter cards with them to participate in the programme. Every participant will be awarded with the appreciation letter by the district administration.
  
 He further said that on January 31, human chain of 150 km length will be made which will cover four districts Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib. This human chain will start from town Kartarpur, District Kapurthala and cover the distance of Jalandhar, Phagwara, Guraya, Phillaur, Ladhowal Byepass, Ludhiana city, Sahnewal, Doraha, Biza, Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh, Sirhind and Fatehgarh Sahib. Participants will cover the distance holding hand in hand with one another. 
 
 Bhagat said that more than 1.5 lakh people are participating in the human chain. Seventy thousand people (the maximum) of Ludhiana will cover the city under the district Ludhiana. Anyone can take part in the function. The participants will be awarded appreciation letters by the district administration. Prior to that, the previous record of making 122 kms long human chain is in the name of Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Bhagat further said that efforts are on the way to make both these functions (samagams) enter in the‘Limca Book of Records’ and ‘India Book of Records’. Representatives of both the companies will also be present during both the functions. Bhagat urged the people of Ludhiana to take participation and aware voters for the ethical use of voting scheduled on February 4.
 
