PATIALA: A 17-year-old girl was found dead while three other members of her family have been hospitalized after they were found unconscious in their home in Samana town of   district on Wednesday evening.

 Police claimed to have initiated the investigation in the case to know whether it was an attempt to suicide among the entire family or the chemical sprayed at night to kill termites in the AC room where the family was sleeping had left an adverse impact.
 
 A case under sections of CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) and Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at city Samana police station.
 
 According to information, Smaila (17) succumbed to the poison which was sprayed inside the AC room. Her parents, Jaswinder Kaur and  , both tailors, are admitted to a private hospital and are said to be in critical condition.
 
 Investigative officer Bhinderpal Singh informed it was the fourth member of the family, their 4-year-old daughter, who brought the incident to the notice of the neighbours when she saw her parents vomiting. The neighbours, then, admitted them to the hospital and also approached the police.
 
 Singh also informed that the police are investigating all angles in this case including that of a suicide attempt by the entire family. “The neighbours and also the relatives have revealed that the family had no dispute with anyone, not even with each other,” he said.
 
 “The family members were lying unconscious inside the room while the 17-year-old girl was dead. A foul smell of a spray used to kill termites was coming from the room. We are suspecting that the family might have sprayed the chemical inside the air-conditioned room before falling asleep. This might have left them unconscious,” he said.
 
 According to Singh, the conditions of the family members are serious and hence they are unable to give any official statement. “Post mortem of the girl will be conducted by Thursday. We have registered a case under relevant sections to take the proceedings further,” said Singh.
 
 He also informed that the chemical examination reports are yet to come, which will help to get a clear picture of the incident.
 
 
