SHIMLA:   Congress Committee president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu on Tuesday targeted chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Amid speculations that Virbhadra Singh and his supporters were demanding changes in the organization, Sukhu questioned why the high command would remove an honest person like him. Sukhu’s statement of himself as an honest person is being seen as a direct attack on Virbhadra Singh, who is facing corruption cases in the courts.

 During a press conference in Shimla, Sukhu was asked about the attempt of Virbhadra Singh-led camp of making changes in the organization before the assembly polls. In his reply, Sukhu said that 95% of the workers and leaders in the Congress are happy with his performance. He said it was the remaining five per cent and the chief minister who wanted to change him. While Virbhadra Singh is opposing organizational election with just a few months left for the assembly elections in the state, Sukhu has hinted that organizational elections would be held as per schedule.
 
 He said there was no instruction from the high command to postpone elections. He said the process of election is progressing as per schedule, and a majority of the workers are happy with it. With Sukhu targeting Virbhadra Singh on the corruption issue, and making it clear that organizational election would continue as per schedule, fissures are going to widen in the Congress before the polls.
 
 Virbhadra Singh, along with around a dozen party leaders, including some cabinet ministers on Monday, had met senior party leaders, including Congress vice-president   in New Delhi. Sources said during the meeting, Virbhadra Singh had also raised the issue, including organizational elections, giving a free hand to him for the assembly polls, and changing the state president, as he had already completed his term.
 
 Sources said during their meeting with Congress MP Mullappally Ramachandran, Virbhadra Singh and his supporters had submitted a memorandum to the central leadership about the strengthening of the Congress party in the state. A request was also made to postpone organizational elections. Sources said during a meeting with Rahul Gandhi, the issue of coming elections and making changes in the state organization was discussed. The sources also said the leaders had requested Rahul Gandhi, that as assembly polls were to be contested under the leadership of Virbhadra Singh, he should be given a free hand.
 
