Wouldn’t it be nice if the human body had an “early alert system” that advised us when something was about to go wrong with our health?   offers a warning and gives us a chance to change the future. A person with prediabetes has a blood sugar level higher than normal, but not high enough for a diagnosis of   (Fasting blood sugar - 100-125, Postprandial - 140 – 199, HbA1c - 5.7-6.4%). The Chance of developing type 2 diabetes is next 5 years is more than 50% if you do not take any precautions at this stage. He or she is at higher risk for developing   and other serious health problems, including heart disease, and stroke. This abnormal physiologic state reflects the rapidly changing access to high-calorie food and decreasing levels of physical activity occurring worldwide, with resultant obesity and metabolic consequences. This is particularly marked in developing countries. It is important to know if you have prediabetes, because research has shown that some long-term complications associated with diabetes – such as   and nerve damage – may begin during prediabetes. 

 Similar to type-2 diabetes, pre-diabetes can occur without any alarming symptoms, so being aware of your risks and getting tested are important. If you are suffering from high blood pressure, high levels of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides, low levels of HDL cholesterol and excess fat around the waist, you are more prone candidate for prediabetes. The risk for type- 2 diabetes is higher as we grow older, so the screening by testing fasting plasma glucose for everyone once they reach age 40 and every three years afterwards is a protective approach towards diabetes.
 
 Research confirms that if we manage our lifestyle well during pre-diabetes, we can delay or prevent type-2 diabetes from developing. We can normalize blood glucose (sugar) levels with simple lifestyle changes, such as increasing physical activity and enjoying a healthy, low-fat meal every day. Losing weight through healthy eating and regular physical activity can make a huge difference in your health and quality of life. Lose 5% to 7% of your body weight, which would be 3.5 to 5 kg for a 70 kg person; and get at least 150 minutes each week of physical activity, such as brisk walking.
 
 The important thing is that prediabetes doesn’t always lead to diabetes. If you have prediabetes, taking steps to manage your blood glucose gives you a chance to change your future to one that does not have type-2 diabetes.
 
 
 
  
 
 
