BELAGAVI: Following the valiant struggle of   of the 115 Mahar Battalion of the  , who survived an   that hit   in Kashmir’s Ganderbal district on Wednesday, the Kugaji family has become the toast of the entire city.

 Srihari’s exploits have now shed light on the Kugajis’ longstanding tryst with the Army. His father Ananth Kugaji served in the Army for 28 years and retired as a Subedar. Srihari’s sister, Major Pankaja, a BE graduate, currently stationed at Jaisalmer, a city in Rajasthan on the India-Pakistan border, serves in the electronic and mechanical engineering (EME) section. Pankaja’s husband also served in the Army for five years.
 
 While Ananth participated in the famous 1971 Indo-Pak War, Srihari’s uncle Balaram was a part of the 1962 Indo-China conflict. A name board hanging in front of the Kugajis’ home in Adarsh Nagar informs the world of the family’s illustrious martial record.
 
 Srihari, who has a four-year-old son, has been serving in Jammu and Kashmir for the past eight years, and has not sought a transfer to other locations, despite the availability of the provision. A committed environmentalist, Srihari is an avid trekker and mountaineer, and was recently awarded a gold medal for scaling the third highest peak in the Himalayas.
 
 “Srihari is very knowledgeable about the conditions in Jammu and Kashmir, and is familiar with the territory as well. He has accustomed himself to the harsh climactic conditions there,” Ananth told TOI.
 
 Ananth further said that Srihari had earned two degrees: BSc and LLb. Pointing out that his son was a yoga practitioner, Ananth added, “He has learnt how to regulate his breathing, which helped him come out of the debris after being hit by the avalanche.”
 
 Beaming at his son’s accomplishment, Ananth said that he never forced either of his two children to join the Army. “They joined the armed forces out of choice. Today, I am very happy that they have succeeded in their chosen path. They imbibed the culture of the Army since their childhood days,” he added.
 
 
