JAISALMER: Two nationalized banks in Jaisalmer and Barmer have allegedly been cheated of crores of rupees by using fake names and   and securing loans through the   (KCC) scheme.

 A total of 13 such cases have come to light at the SBI’s Ramgarh branch in Jaisalmer district, and an assistant manager, who is currently working as branch manager at the Kashmiri Gate branch in Delhi, has been arrested.
 
 Similarly, at the SBBJ’s Mokalsar branch in Barmer, 80 such cases of fraud have come to light. Barmer district collector Sudhir Kumar Sharma has written to both SBI and SBBJ and requested them to investigate all the cases. SBBJ has started investigation at its level and the administration has lodged a case at Siwana police station.
 
 Confirming the fraud, Sharma said that at SBBJ’s Mokalsar branch, a gang using fake names and documents availed loans worth crores of rupees under the KCC scheme.
 
 He said that they have discovered around 80 cases in which loans of Rs 3 lakh each were taken using fake documents. The gang members also used fake stamps, signatures of SDM, tehsildar, patwari and other revenue officials.
 
 It has been found prima facie that no such land or people exist as per documents mortgaged by the gang.
 
 SBBJ deputy general manager Pawan Jain said that he had received complaints about the frauds in KCC and was getting them investigated at his level.
 
 In the frauds involving SBI Ramgarh branch, the then assistant and field manager defrauded the bank using fake documents. The police also arrested the culprit, Jogendra Kumar Jatao, who is presently branch manager at Kashmiri Gate in New Delhi, under sections 420, 468, 467 and 471 of the IPC and began an inquiry.
 
 Ramgarh SHO Bhawani singh confirmed that 13 cases of   had come to light at SBI. In these cases too, culprits had taken loans of Rs 3 lakh each. Investigations revealed that there was no land or people as mentioned in documents submitted to avail loans.
 
 All the stamps and signatures on the documents have been found to be fake.
 
