NEW DELHI: If you thought Anand Vihar is the most polluted spot in the city and just curbing pollution levels there could bring down the capital’s sky rocketing pollution average, take a look at ITO. The   station which was out of order for nearly three years has started operating again from July 2016. The PM 2.5 levels levels recorded here are often as severe as Anand Vihar, at times even higher. 

 TOI assessed PM 2.5 levels for the past fortnight here and found ITO recorded higher levels compared to Anand Vihar. For example the PM 2.5 average at ITO between December 18 to January 2 was 309 micrograms per cubic metres, more than five times the 24 hour standard and more than 12 times the World Health Organisation (WHO) guideline compared to 280 micrograms per cubic metres at Anand Vihar. Punjabi Bagh and Siri Fort were not far behind at 244 micrograms per cubic metres and 231 micrograms per cubic metres respectively. Scientists at air quality monitoring agencies and experts are not surprised. Massive traffic congestion at the ITO intersection is behind ITO’s unbelievable PM 2.5 levels—for example on January 1 the 24 hour average at ITO was 524 micrograms per cubic metres more than 8 time the national safe standard. 
 
 “You will notice that most of the land in ITO is covered. There is not much pollution from windblown dust, there is integrated land use management. In fact ITO is India’s oldest pollution monitoring station and a model station for us because it’s located in the heart of the city. But due to metro construction it had to be closed for nearly three years,” said a scientist from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) adding that ITO is a kerbside station and not entirely an ambient air monitoring station. “The impact from traffic is huge.” A comparison of PM 2.5 levels during November and December in ITO and Anand Vihar shows ITO is nearly as bad as Anand Vihar on most days. 
 
 “The levels are high at ITO because it’s a traffic intersection but meteorological conditions may be also affecting the levels,” said Anil Kumar, director, Delhi environment department.   (DPCC) had recently submitted to High Court that Anand Vihar had the highest levels leading to increase of the average ambient air quality level of the city. Anand Vihar too is bearing the brunt of heavy traffic, dust and emissions from nearby industries in  .
 
 The nitric oxide (NO) levels at ITO are also quite high during the same period at 114 micrograms per cubic metres which may be also linked to vehicular emissions. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of   (CSE’s) clean air programme, “the government needs to develop local solutions too for these pollution hotspots. The data clearly shows that ITO has recorded very high PM 2.5 levels in the last two to three days. At the same time other stations like Siri Fort are not far behind.”
 
 CSE’s analysis shows out of 34 days (December 1, 2016 to January 3, 2017), there were 15 days in severe and emergency category (4 days in ‘severe’ and 11 days in ‘emergency’ category) at ITO. At Siri Fort, there are 10 days when the PM2.5 levels were in severe and emergency category (5 days in ‘severe’ and 5 days in ‘emergency’ category) and the highest levels have gone upto 400 microgramme per cum which is 6.7 times the standard. Air quality is considered severe when PM 2.5 levels are above 250 micrograms per cubic metres while its considered emergency when PM 2.5 levels cross 300 micrograms per cubic metres and persist for 48 hours.
 
 "If you look at data over one year (or more) for monitoring stations across Delhi, Anand Vihar will likely have a higher average concentration, and that is expected due to the location of the station. The more worrying aspect is the high concentrations in seemingly ‘cleaner’ locations, such as Siri Fort or Mandir Marg. It is important to note that the government claims Anand Vihar to be the most polluted spot, based on currently available data. I would like to know concentrations at Ashram or Ghazipur, for example, which are also pollution hotspots," said Pallavi Pant, an air quality scientist.
 
 
