LUCKNOW: They may have begun late, but they arrived with a bang. The Samajwadi Party and Congress came together here on Sunday to form a formidable alliance that packs in youth, political capital, possible consolidation of Muslim votes and, most important, a staggering 40% vote share based on their performance in 2012, just three weeks ahead of Assembly elections in UP to put up a strong challenge to the BJP and BSP.

 The two parties put behind days of bickering over seat-sharing to announce the alliance with SP deciding to fight on 298 seats and Congress on the rest 105. The alliance was sealed with   calling   on Sunday morning to make the offer that signalled a successful denouement of the protracted negotiations that saw both sides pushing the other hard.
 
 As the UP elections gat her pace, Rahul and Akhilesh are expected to campaign together. Akhilesh, however, will launch his own campaign from Sultanpur on Tuesday.
 
 Political analysts say that the alliance will ensure mutual gains for the two parties. “Apart from the combined vote share, the two parties would also get benefited from one another's vote bank and cadre strength.While SP is likely to get the support of a section of upper castes and youth who have been traditional Congress voters, SP's cadre base may support Congress where it has no base,“ says a political analyst.“ Priyanka, according to sources, continued to be central to the talks as the phone call from Akhilesh on Sunday morning indicated.
 
 The alliance was formally announced by the state chiefs of the two parties -Naresh Uttam of SP and Raj Babbar of Congress. The joint press conference to announce the pact was first scheduled to be held at the SP headquarters. But later it was shifted to a city hotel where the two leaders announced it without divulging much on the details of the seats.
 
 Political analysts say that the alliance will ensure mutual gains for the two parties.“Apart from the combined vote share, the two parties would also get benefited from one another's vote bank and cadre strength. While SP is likely to get the support of a section of upper castes and youth who have been traditional Congress voters, SP's cadre base may support Congress where it has no base,“ says a political analyst,“ adding “ besides the coming together of the two would also add to one another's star power in campaigning.“
 
 The alliance can also showcase itself to minorities as as a combine best-placed to defeat BJP. Moreover, four prominent faces of the alliance -chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, Dimple Yadav, Congress vice-president   and Priyanka Gandhi represent the youth and also enjoy an unblemished image. Their average age of 42 years gives an edge against their political rivals in attracting young voters.
 
 Addressing media persons, Raj Babbar said that a common minimum programme would also be announced soon and the alliance would halt the march of the communal forces and NDA government's disastrous programmes like demonetisation would also play a big role in it. Uttam Patel declared that the two parties would campaign together to defeat the BJP and the BSP and the new government would be formed under the leadership of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 For Akhilesh, who along with Rahul and Priyanka, chalked out the details of this pact in bid to become the first CM since 1985 to retain power, the major challenge would be to keep a sulking `pariwar' together as slowly but surely the old guards and the elders are deserting the party or are disgruntled.
 
 Even on Sunday , senior SP leader and RS member Beni Prasad Verma, who was among a few with Mulayam to form the party 25 years ago, hinted at quitting the party . Before him half a dozen MLAs and leaders have already defected from the Samajwadi Party .
 
