SURAT: Surat police find themselves in a tight spot again after the   due to consumption of spurious liquor. These deaths emphasize the police’s failure to check the   in the city amid their tall claims of strict implementation of prohibition during the  .

 Chief minister   hinted that strict action would be taken against those responsible for hooch tragedies, from the suppliers of methanol to bootleggers and police staff. 
 
 Besides the deaths of the two youths, five other people are suspected to have succumbed to spurious country liquor in Surat in the last two days.
 
 Rupani, during his visit to Afwa village in Bardoli for a Gunotsav programme on Tuesday, told mediapersons that the state government was committed to strict prohibition in Gujarat. 
 
 Rupani said those responsible for the hooch tragedy, from suppliers to middlemen and bootleggers to policemen would not be spared. 
 
 In September 2016, the state government had transferred inspector general of Surat range Narsimha Komar and superintendent of police Mayursinh Chavda after 21 people died from consumption of spurious liquor in Surat district.
 
 Whether the state government takes similar action against police officers for negligence leading these two confirmed and five suspected deaths remains to be seen. Country liquor is freely available on the periphery of the city, at places like Jehangirpura, Ved, Variav, Bhestan, Neol and Khajod. The illegal supply of methanol also continues unhindered.
 
 Police sources said demand for country liquor has gone up after city police implemented measures to curb the sale of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), which was being brought into the city from the Union territories of Daman and Silvassa or from Haryana and Punjab. The prices of most IMFL brands have more than doubled in the last three months.
 
 “We have implemented prohibition in the city strictly since the the September 2016 hooch tragedy. It is a matter of investigation whether the bootleggers brewed the liquor in the city limits or if they brought it in from villages in the district,” said police commissioner Satish Sharma.
 
