BHUNA (FATEHABAD): Almost 50 days after Jats relaunched their agitation for reservation in jobs, the protest took a violent turn on Sunday when protesters clashed with police in   district following the cops' attempt to stop them from moving towards Delhi on tractor trolleys.

 Sixteen cops, including a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), and several protesters were injured in tear-gas shelling and lathicharge while two police vehicles were set afire and around a dozen damaged by the protesters.
 
 The violence erupted at a police check post near Kheri village around noon when the protesters from three villages of Hisar district tried to enter Fatehabad district to join the dhar na at   village.
 
 Dhani Gopal village is the epicentre of Jat agitation in Fatehabad district from where the protesters were planning to move towards Delhi on Monday for Parlia ment blockade.
 
 As the tractor trolleys carrying Jats tried to bre ach the police barricades, DSP Gurdial Singh and a duty magistrate tried to stop them. It led to a clash between the protesters and security personnel. The situation was brought under control after an hour. The administration has deployed around 600 security personnel, including two companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and   (SSB) and several of district police, in the area.
 
 According to Fatehabad superintendent of police (SP) O P Narwal, hundreds of protesters on tractors and trolleys were carrying lathis, `barchha', stones and inflammable material. When the DSP asked them to join the dharna peacefully, one protester hit the cop with a lathi and others started pelting stones at the personnel, he said. “We had to use tear-gas shells and resort to lathicharge to disburse the mob. Two police vehicles were torched and around a dozen damaged. DSP Gurdial Singh and inspector Kuldeep Singh were among the 16 personnel injured in the clash. An FIR has been registered and secu rity personnel were deployed in the area,“ Narwal told TOI.
 
 While claiming that he too had suffered minor injuries on his hand while controlling the situation, the SP maintained that no protester was injured.
 
 The injured cops have been admitted at medical college Agroha near Hisar.
 
 According to  , state president of   and in-charge of Fatehabad district protest site, around 1,000 protesters were heading towards Dhani Gopal village when a police officer used force without any reason, which led to the clash.
 
 “These protesters have been attending dharna peacefully for the past 50 days, but on Sunday bullets were fired at tractor trolleys and tyres were deflated without any provocation. Some of our people suffered injuries, but the situation is now under control as the government has agreed to our demands,“ said Dhaka, who was also part of the delegation that met the government officials in Delhi on Sunday for parleys.
 
