THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Almost every engineering student group that has accepted the Kerala Technological University’s socially relevant challenge for developing a state-of-the-art ‘jackfruit plucking’ equipment presented their ideas in front of a panel of experts at the KTU headquarters here on Monday. Of the 24 project proposals presented before the panel, six have been identified for further assistance.

 Apart from the course-linked academic projects, the university has recently invited applications from   of colleges affiliated with it for developing an equipment that would help people pluck jackfruit safely. Of the 24 proposals shortlisted by the university, the engineering talents behind 23 ideas have presented their ideas before the expert committee. Of these, the expert committee has selected six innovative proposals. 
 
 The panel was chaired by educationist and technocrat RVG Menon. Former Microsoft director  , who is aggressively promoting the production and use of jackfruit-based value-added products, was another panellist. 
 
 The university received 127 applications from students of various engineering colleges and had shortlisted 24 proposals. The university had then asked the student groups to present their ideas before a committee. According to sources, the idea for a safe   was first suggested to the university by James Joseph and the university had accepted his suggestion as the first of the socially relevant innovative programmes for engineering students under the university. The state agriculture minister too has promised all out support to the university’s endeavour.
 
 “Some of the ideas presented by the students were really amazing. It certainly proves the engineering aptitude of the young students at KTU. We have plans to promote more such socially relevant innovations that can touch the lives of people in a big way. The university has sanctioned the financial assistance sought by the six groups that were chosen for developing prototypes of the equipment they conceived for plucking coconut safely and conveniently from a certain height,” said KTU vice-chancellor   P Issac. 
 
 The university has promised up to Rs 50,000 for the proposals selected by the expert panel. “The students have presented their ideas. Some have even come up with the videos and pictures of the prototype equipment. The cost projected by the shortlisted proposals range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000,” said KTU’s research director S Sreekumar. 
 
 Once they complete the development of the prototypes, the expert panel would again evaluate the same and choose the best one or more models with potential for commercial production, sources in the university said. The university has specified that the equipment being developed should be able to pluck jack fruits up to 30kg at a maximum height of 10 metres and ground it safely.
 
 Ease to use, efficiency, safety and affordability are some of the parameters set while developing such an equipment. 
 
