S. S. Rajamouli’s magnum opus ‘
 ’ has taken the box-office by storm since the day of its release. There’s no stopping the   and   as it continues its phenomenal run at the theatres across the country. The Hindi version of the multi-lingual film collected approximately Rs 46.50 crore on Day 3 (Sunday), according to a report on Boxofficeindia.com. The weekend collection of the Hindi version now stands at a whopping Rs 127.50 crore.

 
 
 Besides the Hindi version, the other versions too have set the cash registers ringing across the entire country. ‘Baahubali 2: The Conclusion’ has reportedly amassed around Rs 300 crore nett (cumulative figures of all languages) over its first three days. With so much buzz and good word of mouth, the numbers are only expected to rise over the coming days.
 
 Here is a look at how   2: The Conclusion’s collections on the opening weekend in India have beaten those of all other Indian films to date.
  
  
 Starring Prabhas as Amarendra Baahubali and his son Mahendra Baahubali, Rana Daggubati as Bhallala Deva,   as Devasena, Ramya Krishnan as Rajmata Sivagami, Tamannaah as Avanthika and Sathyaraj as Kattappa, the film promises gravity-defying action stunts and ancient war techniques brought to life by VFX. 
 
 The entire film fraternity is smitten by the Baahubali 2 magic weaved by maverick filmmaker Rajamouli. Recently, the director has received praises from matinee idol Rajinikanth. The star described the movie as Indian cinema's pride. Praising   for his superb direction, he said Rajamouli is 'God's own child'. "Baahubali 2 ... Indian cinema's pride. My salutes to God's own child @ssrajamouli and his team!!! #masterpiece," shared Rajinikanth on social media. The director responded by sharing, "THALAIVAAAA... Feeling like god himself blessed us... our team is on cloud9... Anything couldn't be bigger."
 
 The multi-lingual film amassed a whopping Rs 506 crore worldwide (cumulative figure of all languages) over the opening weekend. By the response of the audience seems like the film is likely to cross Rs 1,000 crore worldwide in a week's time -if it does, it will be the first film ever to earn as much at the box office in the history of Indian cinema. 
 
 
