THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Targeting over two lakh techies in the state,  , the   at Chadayamangalam in  , has opened its Adventure Center-a first of its kind in south India meant exclusively for team building activities. 

 With a successful trial run held last week with the participation of a team of around 50 employees from a company based at Technopark, the Adventure Center built into a natural wild terrain, is expected to attract groups from across the country and even from abroad.
 
 Meanwhile, the much-awaited tourism destination, which is spread over 65 acres of multi terrain landscape with the huge sculpture of the mythical bird in Ramayana and other features including ropeway with cable cars, is expected to be opened for tourists by Onam this year.
 
 "There could be several establishments in the country which offer team building activities. But this is unique, for the number of activities (around 15 of them) in a natural atmosphere and the high-level safety standards," said film maker and sculptor  , who is the concept designer, chairman and the managing director of Jatayu Earth's Center.
 
 The activities, like rock climbing (See box) will take a whole day to complete. Run by around 15 trainers, all young and trained from institutions in Uttaranchal, the Center also has a food court and a conference hall.
 
 "I didn't know I could do so much and more! I overcame my fear of heights, I tested my endurance like never before," wrote   from IBS, a participant of the last week's trial event, in a Facebook post. "Ten hours sans mobile phone and selfies-yes phones have to be deposited in the cloak room for they want you to see, feel and enjoy Mother Nature only through your own eyes. No e-mails, phone calls, WhatsApp, Facebook instant updates, help one do more in a day!" she went on to add.
 
 "The wild terrain is our USP-the wow factor. With regard to safety standards, we already have the Indian Mountaineering Federation's certification. But that isn't enough if we look at it in a global perspective. The aim is to get the UK certified safety standards 'OHSAS'. This centre can set a benchmark for adventure tourism in India," said Ajitkumar B, the CEO of Jatayu Earth's Center.
 
 The immediate target market, he said, was the IT sector. "The Center is just 45 minutes' drive from Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, where around 63,000 people are employed. Then, we have the Infopark in Kochi with 230 companies employing around 32,000 techies," Ajitkumar said. 
 
