NAGPUR: Can a chief wildlife warden’s protocol be above saving lives of wild animals? The  , built at the cost of Rs 27 crore, thinks so. As protocol was not followed, the rescue centre slammed the door on two fawn of barking deer rescued from Gadchiroli.

 Two 24-day-old fawn of barking deer, listed under Schedule III of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, were found on December 29, in   in Aheri range, 10km from Allapalli, by a villager  . The woman had gone to collect fuel-wood.
 
 According to forest officials, the woman waited till the evening for the mother to return but as it was getting dark, she lifted the fawns and took them home. Next day   were informed and they too searched for the mother on December 31.
 
 However, as there is no treatment centre at Allapalli or Aheri, on Sunday the team led by Aheri RFO Prabhakar Atram shifted the fawns to Gorewada around 1.30 pm with a proper request letter from Allapalli deputy conservator (DyCF) Ginni Singh and veterinary doctor’s certificate. 
 
 However, after over 3-hour-long wait staff concerned refused to accept the animals saying that no intimation was given in advance to the rescue centre that the animals were being brought.
 
 “They told us that protocol of chief wildlife warden was not followed. We waited till 5pm and as there was no response, assistant conservator RM Agrawal called up in charge of Maharajbagh zoo Dr SS Bawaskar. Finally, the fawns were handed over to the zoo,” said Atram.
 
 Ginni Singh did not respond to TOI calls. Gorewada DFO Sachin Repal says, “We never said no. The Allapalli DyCF did not communicate. The chief wildlife warden has given a written protocol which needs to be followed. If the RFO concerned has kept the vehicle waiting than an inquiry will be done. Recently we accepted a leopard cub rescued from Hingni even as papers were not proper.”
 
 “Till protocol is followed, should animals be left to die. If animals brought by department are not treated, what can common man expect,” asked People for Animal (PFA) chief Karishma Galani.
 
 Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) general manager RS Yadav admits such goof ups should not be repeated. “I will tell officials,” he added.
 
 Dr Bawaskar said, “The fawns are recovering in the zoo. We are feeding milk with bottles. One of the fawns has slight injury in leg. We have brought a goat from PDKV’s dairy and its milk is being fed.”
 
