BHOPAL: Bullets flew in the state capital and in less than 24 hours, four people were shot dead in two separate incidents.

 Two youths were shot and later stabbed over a political rivalry in Bajaria area on Saturday night while on Sunday, two people were shot dead following a dispute over Rs 2500 near Moti Masjid.
 
 Several people including passers-by stood mute spectators to the deadly attack which took place in the crowded Moti Masjid locality, said sources.
 
 Police said, Moti Masjid shootout took place at around 9.15 pm. Two people open fired on the men near a garment shop. One of the dead has been identified as Rashid, a resident of Hoshangabad. He ran a chemist shop (named Universal medical store) at Moti Masjid area. Another youth who died in the shooting has been identified as Danish alias Ubed. His credentials could not be ascertained till filing of this report.
 
 DIG   Sikarwar told TOI that accused Rehman Ali, 36, a resident of Moti Masjid area was arrested from near his house a few minutes after the murder. The weapon of crime - a 12 bore rifle, has been recovered from his possession.
 
 Rashid’s shop was near Rehman’s house. “Accused Rehman had borrowed Rs 2,500 from Rashid few months ago. On Friday, Rashid had attacked Rehman with a pair of scissors after a verbal spat on returning the borrowed money. A case was registered in this matter,” said the DIG. Rashid was on the run since then.
 
 Rehman was waiting to retaliate. “When he saw Rashid near his shop in the evening, he came with a rifle and fired multiple shots killing him on the spot. Ubed who was along with Rashid was also injured and died of bullet injuries.
 
 The rifle belongs to Rehman’s father who had died in year 2012. Used cartridges of 12 bore rifle had also been seized from the spot,” Sikarwar said.
 
 Police said Rehman is a habitual offender. His brother Feroz is already in jail for serious criminal offences.
 
 Earlier two youth shot were shot dead by a group after a local rivalry war between two groups near  . One of the deceased is considered very close to BJP MLA and minister Vishwas Sarang.
 
 Four of the accused have been identified so far, and they are identified as Pawan Sisodiya, Bhola Sahu, Banti Sahu, Nilesh and Sumit, of these two namely Pawan and Bhola were arrested on Sunday and further investigations are on, said police.
 
 The deceased have been identified as   Chauhan alias Annu, 30, a local BJP leader and close to Sarang and Manoj Kushwah alias Mannu, 30. While Annu died on the spot, Manoj died at the hospital.
 
 Both were attacked with sharp-edged weapons and later shot at by a group of people in Dwarika Nagar under Bajaria police station.
 
 The deceased, who were resident of Dwarka Nagar, and were standing near the house of Annu, when a group of people accosted them and attacked Annu. When Mannu tried to save Annu, the accused also shot at Mannu and fled.
 
 The main accused Pawan Sisodiya and his friend Banti Sahu are also close some BJP leaders. As the accused and deceased belong to the same area, they had political rivalry and were trying to defame the social image of each other.
 
 On March 7, Banti Sahu, Pawan Sisodiya and some others were booked for kidnapping and sodomising a youth. In this regard, a case is registered at Chhola Mandir police station.
 
 The accused suspected that they were framed by Amit Chauhan, as the complainant in the sodomy case was close to Chauhan. In his statement to police Sisodiya admitted that he along with his friend were framed by Amit Chauhan.
 
 Banti Sahu and Pawan Sisodiya are known criminals of the area. Several cases are registered against them at different police stations of the city. Sources said that duo decided to eliminate Chauhan after they were booked in sodomy case.
 
 
