AURANGABAD: The ministry of external affairs (MEA), along with the department of posts, will open the   Passport   (POPSK) at Aurangabad on Tuesday.

 City-based engineering graduate,  , still remembers the time when he had to run from pillar to post while applying for a passport. The document was a mandatory joining requirement for his new job at Bengaluru. 
 
 “I was literally at my wit’s end trying to get the   as I had little time in hand. I was eventually forced to take help from a private agent, who charged me exorbitantly as he knew it was urgent. Even though the process was online, I had to take multiple trips to Pune to fulfil all the application requirements,” he recalls.
 
 Like Shardul, a number of applicants from the region were inconvenienced by the absence of a passport issuing facility in the city. Now, as the city is finally getting its Passport Seva Kendra after a long wait, the youngster thanks the central authorities on behalf of the scores of applicants who had to go through the tedious process. 
 
 Pranav Kumar, postmaster general for the Aurangabad circle, said special arrangements have been made at the regional office located at Chhavani to set up the POPSK as per the MEA requirements.
 
 “Three postal department staffers will be appointed at the POPSK, along with supervising MEA officials. The passport application will have to be done online, while document verification will be done at the local level as per allotted time slots. The regional passport officer, Mumbai will be the signing authority on the passport after the police verification process,” he said.
 
 Kumar said they expect a footfall of at least 100 applicants a day at the POPSK Aurangabad to begin with.
 
 The MEA and postal department had announced that the Head Post Offices (HPO) will be used as POPSK in various states with an aim to extend passport services on a larger scale. Mysuru in Karnataka and Dahod in Gujarat had witnessed the pilot launch of the project on January 25. In Maharashtra, Kolhapur also witnessied the setting up of the POPSK recently.
 
 A senior government official said that the role of private players in the passport issuance process will gradually be phased out by roping in staff from the postal department. 
 
 “The pilot project of running POPSKs with help from the postal department has been a success and the same results are expected at the facility coming up at Aurangabad,” he said.
 
 Beed and Jalgaon are the two next cities on the cards which will be getting a POPSK. 
 
 Applicants earlier had to go to Mumbai or other metro cities to complete all the formalities for acquiring a passport. Such trips consumed a lot of time and money. 
 
 Aurangabad had a passport office, through which manual applications were accepted, but the facility was shut down after orders from the regional passport office, Mumbai in January 2013 after the online application process was started.
 
 Regional passport officer, Mumbai Swati Kulkarni, along with local MPs and MLAs are scheduled to attend inaguration of passport facility on Tuesday. 
 
