AHMEDABAD: Three Pakistan Marine Security Agency (PMSA) commandos died; two were rescued, while one has been reported missing, following an accident that took place around 10 nautical miles on the Indian side of the International Maritime Boundary line (IMBL) off   on Monday. The   has issued an alert to Gujarat marine police regarding the missing Pak marine. 

 Officials of the Indian Coast Guard ( ) Ship “Arinjay”, which had rushed to the accident spot for rescue operation, found bodies of the three Pakistani marine commandos who had drowned, and had handed them over to their Pakistan counterparts, said sources. 
 
 “Two other Pak marine commandos who have been rescued and the three bodies have been handed over to PMSA,” said a top official in the know of the developments. 
 
 “As a goodwill gesture, PMSA has released seven Indian fishing boats,”   officials have conveyed to Gujarat police, “However, officials are unsure whether any fisherman from the boats still remain in   or not.” 
 
 “As six commandos had been reported on the Pak boat, the ICG is searching for the remaining crew member of the PMSA boat in the sea,” said a source in the ICG.
 
 Sources said a fleet of PMSA boats had reportedly rushed into Indian waters, when seven Indian boats were busy fishing about 70 nautical miles from Jhakhau coast.
 
 “The PMSA boats rounded up seven Indian fishing boats namely Uma Shakti, Parshu Ram, Trishul, Savan, Ashirvad, Kishan Kanahiya, Baba Jalluddin and Mahenoor,” said a source.
 
 “While escorting them to Karachi coast, one of the Indian boats broke down resulting in a collision with one of the small fast boats of PMSA. The PMSA boat with six Pak marine commandos capsized,” the source said, adding, “ICG ship “Arinjay” rushed in and found two bodies which were handed over to PMSA.”
 
 Sources added that the Indian fishing boat “Mahenoor”, which had broken down, was then let off by the PMSA commandos for being towed by another boat, “Uma Shakti” to   coast, with just one crew member. 
 
 The PMSA is infamous for sailing into Indian waters and kidnapping Indian fishermen with their boats.
 
 “On April 4 this month, PMSA had kidnapped 65 Indian fishermen with their vessels off Gujarat coast,” a source said. 
 
