Nagpur: The first general body meeting of the new-elected members of the   ( ), chaired by mayor Nanda Jichkar, brought some good news for the citizens. From now on, uniform water rates will be charged for a residential property, irrespective of the occupancy certificate (OC). Till now, those who didn’t have occupancy certificate were charged as per commercial rates which is four times higher than the residential tariff.

 On Monday, the administration proposed amendments in water tariff bylaws. The department proposed levying three times water tariff for residential buildings without occupancy certificates. After a nod from general body in the past, the NMC had fixed water tariff at Rs33.51 per unit for 0-20 units, Rs46.91 per unit for 21-80 units and Rs60.29 per unit for above 80 units. 
 
 Even the NESL — the special purpose vehicle for water department — board had cleared a proposal making occupancy certificate mandatory to provide new water connection to flats and individual houses in the name of under-construction consumers.
 
 The decision was opposed by not only citizens but also elected representatives. Senior   corporator Praful Gudadhe, who had raised the issue in the general body meeting, said that instead of levying commercial water tariff from occupants in a residential building, the NMC should penalize builders who violate sanctioned plans and fail to obtain occupancy certificates.
 
 Gudadhe also pointed out that water and power connections were mandatory for obtaining occupancy certificates. “Under these circumstances, charging higher water tariff from flat occupants was not justified,” he said.
 
 Senior   corporator Dayashankar Tiwari demanded that the administration should explain to the House the rules and regulations of OC. Tiwari also asked how many cities in the state decide water rates as per OC. In reply, deputy director (town planning department) Supriya Thool admitted that she was not aware of the OC rules. 
 
 Following the discussion, the House unanimously decided to remove occupancy certificate condition mandatory for residential water connection.
 
 Leader of Opposition Sanjay Mahakalkar demanded that all such connections be changed to residential connections and the dues recovered so far be adjusted towards property tax dues. 
 
 Senior corporator Abha Pande raised the issue of increased water tariff in slums. As per the department’s proposal, shanties should be charged after drawing 10 units of water, while 15 units were proposed for concrete houses in slums. Pande demanded that the units should be from 10 to 20 for shanties. Praful Gudadhe demanded that the slab for concrete house in slums too should be on the higher side. 
 
 Many corporators too joined the demand, which forced the House to revise the proposed rates. The House revised the rates to 15 units for shanties and 15 units-20 units for concrete houses in slums. 
 
 Pande also raised the issue of thefts of meters installed by Water Works Department outside the residences in old city areas. She informed the house that installation of new meters costs Rs1600-1800 to the applicants. “The department should install meters inside the residences to curb thefts,” she said and also demanded cancellation of charges for new meters.
 
 However, corporators from Congress and Bahujan   raised objection over one of the points in the bylaws about collecting water charges for supplying drinking water through tankers in ‘non-network’ areas. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar told the House that water supply through tankers in non-network areas costs the civic body Rs15 crore per annum. He explained that taxpayers’ money is being used to pay for tankers charges. The proposal has been made to lessen this burden. 
 
 BSP corporator Jitendra Ghodeswar demanded non-network areas should be charges for water only after they are supplied 24X7 water through taps. 
 
 Following the stiff opposition, the House sent back the proposal to NESL to discuss the issue. Later speaking to media, mayor Jichkar and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi defended the proposal. They pointed out that why people in network areas should bear the expenditure of water tanker service in non-network areas. They said the issue will now be discussed in NESL meeting and if required it will be sent directly to the state government for its nod.
 
 
