MYSURU: The rift between   state unit chief   and the leader of opposition in the legislative council   became all the more apparent at the party’s two-day executive meet that commenced here on Saturday. Despite sharing the dais, the two senior leaders remained indifferent to one another – a clear indication that the hatchet was far from buried.

 Although Eshwarappa was greeted by the other senior leaders seated on the dais, including Union minister HN Ananth Kumar, Yeddyurappa snubbed the former deputy chief minister. The former chief minister also refrained from specifically mentioning Eshwarappa in his welcome address, wherein he affirmed that he was not hankering for power. “I am not power hungry. I resigned as CM after JD(S) betrayed me though I could have remained in the post. It’s the interest of the party that is my top priority,” said Yeddyrappa.
 
 Supporters hail Eshwarappa as the future CM
 
 Ahead of the state executive meeting, Eshwarappa refused to budge from his previous stance on his association with the Sangolli Rayanna Brigade. “There’s no question of ending the activities of the Brigade. The central leadership met Yeddyurappa and me on January 27, where they approved of the Brigade. They have asked me not to use the Brigade as a platform to meet political ends, and I will not,” Eshwarappa told the media ahead of the meet.
 
 Eshwarappa, a prominent Kuruba leader, paid a visit to the Patal Anjaneya temple after arriving in Mysuru on Saturday. At the temple, located close to the venue of the BJP executive meet, Eshwarappa’s followers raised slogans in his support, calling him “the future CM of Karnataka”.
 
 On the other hand, Yeddyurappa admitted to having presumed Eshwarappa’s absence from the meeting. Queried why Eshwarappa wasn’t given a chance to speak on Saturday, Yeddyurappa said, “I thought he won’t attend. Now that he has come, he’ll be allowed to speak at the meet. There are no such restrictions,” Yeddyurappa said.
 
 Rao, Ananth Kumar ask warring leaders to bury differences
 
 BJP Karnataka in-charge   and Ananth Kumar asked Yeddyurappa and Eshwarappa to set their differences aside and work unitedly to free Karnataka from Congress’ hold in next year’s assembly elections. Alluding to Yeddyurappa’s split with the BJP in the run-up to the 2013 assembly elections, Ananth Kumar said, “We suffered a setback in 2013. But we realised our mistake, and rectified it in time for the 2014 elections, when we won 17 Lok Sabha seats.” Referring to a Panchatantra parable, Ananth Kumar highlighted the strength that inhered in unity. “We should be united, not for a day but for a long time, and with a purpose. Coupled with unity, we should also focus on our activities,” Ananth Kumar said.
 
 Rao pointed out that, all party leaders had worked unitedly in other states to guide the BJP to victory.
 
 
