NAGPUR: More than 100 people turned up at the   (RBI) on Saturday to exchange scrapped currency, even though the bank was shut on account of weekend. 

 However, many NRIs and people from different cities complained about unfair treatment and said genuine cases should be considered.
 
 Citizens travelling abroad during the 50-day period have no limit for monetary exchange. NRI’s claimed that grave injustice is being done to them as they cannot deposit the scrapped currency which they had left at their house in India and are also not allowed to bring back more than Rs 25,000.
 
 “The RBI should stick to its previous amendment of allowing deposits till March 31 after submitting a declaration. Legitimacy of different cases should be checked and provisions for honest people should be made,” experts say.
 
 “The window for currency exchange is extremely narrow as the government has no intentions of allowing genuine money to be brought back ,” they added.
 
 A week after the deadline for depositing scrapped notes at banks, people from Akola, Yavatmal, Amravati, Bhopal and other cities reached the RBI here. An   from UAE said, “I couldn’t declare my wealth with customs at the airport because I had left it at home. I cannot let that money go waste .”
 
 NRIs flying back to India fear losing their money owing to changing rules of the RBI. Optometric Vijal Shah residing in the US is worried losing her money as she does not have a KYC compliant account. She said, “I have Rs 35,000 right now and surely Rs 10,000 will be rendered useless. Sparing time to get the KYC done during the family wedding will not be feasible.”
 
 NRIs were delighted after Prime Minister   announced the merging of Person of Indian Origin (PIO) and Overseas Citizenship Of India (OCI) cards in the year 2015. 
 
 However, they are disappointed with the latest rule as they were promised equal benefits, experts said.
 
 Some employees of MNCs who are abroad for training purpose will return after the RBI window is shut. An engineer with a city absed IT firm said, “My company sends abroad around 25 people for projects which last for about 6-12 months. My colleagues will return after March 31 and its unfortunate that they cannot do anything to retain the value of their hard earned money.”
 
 
