TRICHY: About 40 students have pulled out of a matriculation school in the city to join   schools. It is sad to note that most of them were from higher secondary level. This has been the trend in many of the matriculation schools this year. 

 Many parents find the state board syllabus unfriendly to competitive examinations and common entrance tests like recently concluded  . The trend has prompted many school managements in   to start CBSE schools, like the   who plan to start a CBSE school next year. 
 
 “No doubt that the decisions was influenced by frequent demands from parents who want their children to study in CBSE schools,” said its principal K Thulasithasan.
 
 Lack of clarity on NEET has made parents to blindly believe that their students will get more opportunities if they follow CBSE syllabus, he said. He argued whether such a shift in the mindset of parents was necessary, when the NEET race is to fill only 3000 odd medical seats in the state.
 
 Amidst claims that NEET was organised in an unscientific way and the interest of state board students were ignored, some parents are making this move out of fear, to be on the safer side, he said. 
 
 Parents also anticipate common entrance test for engineering in the upcoming years. While the union government has hinted on such a possibility, parents are shifting their children to CBSE schools fearing loss of opportunity compared to state board students.
 
 “Though the state government assured to bring reforms to the school education system, it may take time, but CBSE seem to be order of the day. We do not want our child to get devoid of opportunity,” said Ravivaraman, a parent of IIT aspirant going to Class XI. 
 
 But this fear is going to have adverse effect on children, says academicians. There is a huge difference between CBSE and state board syllabus followed in  .
 
 “Parents putting students in CBSE schools at higher secondary level out of anxiety will push students to face something that they have not faced in state board syllabus,” said principal of Vairam Matriculation School, G Sasi Priya.
 
 The migration has been high after Class X, but it is ideal only till Class VIII and beyond that, migrating is not advisable, she said.
 
 “A weaker state board syllabus only encourage root memory than training the student in terms of reasoning ability or analytics,” said Principal of a matriculation school in the city. We need to have some extra books for children apart from state board books to balance the knowledge level of students. The scope to train the children with some extra books is ruled out after Class VII as they have to prepare for Class X board exams. With such poor training till Class X, students will struggle if put to CBSE for higher secondary, the principal said.
 
 
