CHANDIGARH: The   on Tuesday issued a notice to the  , asking why a new committee was not constituted to reconsider objections to the draft notification for delimitation of MCG wards.

 A division bench of Justice Surya Kant and Justice Sudhir Mittal issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by Bhoop Singh and other residents of Gurgaon.
 
 “Let notice of motion be issued to show cause as to why the state government be not directed to constitute a new committee headed by an officer in the rank of secretary to the state government, to reconsider the objections filed by the petitioners or other residents against the draft notification for delimitation of wards,” observed the bench while seeking state’s response by August 1. 
 
 Petitioners in the case have sought directions to set aside the draft notification by which the authorities had redrawn the number of wards and demarcated boundaries of wards for elections to be conducted for MCG. Those who have been asked to file a reply on the issue include the principal secretary, Haryana department of local bodies, state election commission and MCG.
 
 The petitioners argued that the draft notification did not address any of the grievances raised by them and the state authorities were adamant to force the delimitation through. “The motivation to favour the ruling party is writ large, and needless to say this is arbitrary, discriminatory and against the settled principles and rules governing demarcation and delimitation and amounts to an attempt to steal an election,” alleged the petitioners.
 
 It was further alleged that the authorities are choosing to remap the wards in totality, and in the process, they are arbitrarily adding certain areas into different wards, while removing some to aid the current political dispensation. When the petitioners object, they simply state that if they do not do so, then the required population for constituting a ward would not be met, contended the petitioners. According to the petitioners, they had filed detailed objections on May 30 to the final draft notification, but the state authorities did not provide any opportunity of hearing to them. 
 
 
