LUDHIANA: Two months ago when office of chief commissioner of   (CCIT), Ludhiana, launched www.apnakar.com, the department officials had not thought that this taxpayer service portal would help them nab offenders as well.

 Ever since the launch of this portal on Income Tax Day (July 24), the department has started receiving complaints and tip-offs from public about people evading taxes. Based on one such tip-off, the department busted a racket being run by a leading textile company that had duped its 800 employees by deducting their tax deducted at source (TDS) worth Rs 85 lakh and not depositing it with the department.
 
 The complainant was himself not aware of the fact that tax evasion was of such a high amount. He had just filed a query on www.apnakar.com that he wanted to check whether his company was depositing TDS deducted from his salary every month. As soon as the query reached CCIT, Ludhiana, Binay K Jha, a team started probing the matter and found out that the company was duping its employees and the department. The company was sent a notice along with evidence, after which the management admitted their fault and deposited Rs 85-lakh TDS with the department.
 
 Jha said, “www.apnakar.com was launched with an aim to facilitate tax payers of Ludhiana region, including Patiala, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Ferozepur. The department has a dedicated team of officers managing the portal round the clock. It also allows tax payers to post their suggestions, grievances and requests directly to the office of CCIT, from where these are further sent to the officers concerned and monitored as well. The portal is proving to be a medium between whistle-blowers and the department, as in the case of Rs 85 lakh TDS evasion by a company.” 
 
 
 
 
 Jha said if citizens and taxpayers come forward and share details of persons and companies evading tax, the department would keep their identities confidential and would contact them through emails to apprise them of the status of their complaints. 
 
