AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Wednesday permitted an 18-year old pregnant girl to go and stay with the family of her lover, who is lodged in jail on charges of rape and under various sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.

 The HC asked concerned government official to take the girl to the accused man’s family and speak to his parents to make it clear that they will have to take care of her.
 
 The court issued directions after the girl’s family pressurized her to request the court for permission to terminate her 27-week pregnancy. In her petition, she mentioned that she was raped and impregnated and she could not continue with the pregnancy and did not want to bear the social stigma.
 
 However, when Justice   inquired with her in judge’s chamber, the girl revealed that she was in love with the accused person arrested on rape and abduction charges. It was her family who insisted on abortion against her will. She also complained of harassment and expressed desire to go and live with her lover’s family in a village near Balasinor.
 
 The court summoned the accused,  , who is a major. Mehra told the judge that his family would take care of the girl and that he wants to continue the relationship with the girl.
 
 When the HC heard that the girl wanted to continue with the pregnancy, it said, “That is the end of the matter.” With this, the court directed the social welfare officer of Mahisagar district, in which Mehra’s village is located, to regularly visit Mehra’s house to ascertain girl’s well being.
 
 The high court has also directed medial authorities at Balasinor to ensure proper treatment to the girl and safe delivery of the child. The court has also asked the authorities to ensure that the infant is looked after well at least for one year.
 
 This is the second such case in last few months. A similar petition was filed by   for termination of pregnancy of a deaf-mute woman of unsound mind. She was allegedly raped by one of shelter home’s employees. The HC took help from interpreters, who conveyed twice to the HC that the woman wanted to abort. But when Justice Sonia Gokani inquired personally with help from interpreter and a psychologist in her chamber, the judge found out that the woman’s wish was contrary to what the managers of shelter home wanted.
 
 
