JODHPUR: The one-day   call given by   on Tuesday remained by and large successful with some   between   at some places. Congress had called this bandh against the BJP government’s   and overlooking Marwar region in terms of developments.

 Large crowed of Congress workers from the vicinity of Jodhpur converged in the city and party men tried every possible way to make the bandh a success amidst heavy police deployments to avert any untoward incidents. 
 
 Called a day ahead of chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s arrival in Jodhpur on Wednesday on the occasion of state level Republic Day celebration, the bandh was indeed an occasion for Congress to show strength and on the other hand for the BJP to reaffirm that people are still with them. 
 
 With the Congress leaders and workers taking to the streets in morning itself to ensure success of the call, BJP leaders and workers were on their toes the entire day to ensure that it turns out to be an unsuccessful affair for Congress.
 
 Right from morning, BJP leaders also took the command to ensure that Congress men do not succeed in forcing the markets and shops to close and conveying the message that people have rejected this call.
 
 Former chief minister Ashok Gehlot gave the call of bandh followed by the arrest of ex-MLA Jugal Kabra, former vice chancellor of JNV University B S Rajpurohit along with three others in a case against them for alleged irregularities in recruitment of teachers in the university in 2012.
 
 Terming the bandh as successful, Gehlot said in a statement that it was an endorsement by Jodhpurites to the biased approach of chief minister Vasundhara Raje with Jodhpur.
 
 “People of the city sent a clear indication that they are not happy with the BJP government and ratified it by coming out in support of Congress that the bandh remained successful,” Gehlot said.
 
 The bandh culminated in a demonstration at the district collectorate, where the local addressed huge gathering of party workers shouting anti-government slogans.
 
 
