Popular American actor-director Terrence Vaughan Mann had once famously said, “Movies will make you famous, TV will make you rich, but theatre will make you good.“ That is one thumb rule all actors live by, and Gujarati actors are no exception. While Gujarati theatre has been a rich source of entertainment for a long time now, some of the most popular names from the world of Gujarati theatre are now making their presence felt in Gujarati cinema as well. But theatre still remains their first love. As we celebrate World Theatre Day today , celebs talk about what it means to be on stage, their transition to movies and why their soul still remains committed to theatre.

 AN ACTOR'S WORKSHOP
 Ask any actor, and they will readily accept that there is no greater fun than getting instant reaction from the audience while they act on stage.And that's what makes them go back to stage even after succeeding in films. “Even after doing two films, theatre still remains my first love. You constantly evolve as an actor while doing theatre,“ says actor  . He adds, “You get instant reaction from the audience and you can improvise, correct your mistakes and better your performance in the next staging. That doesn't happen in films, unless you go to a movie and see how your audience is reacting.But you can't do anything as the film has already been made.“ Actor   seconds him, adding, “ After my first film, many people told me that it didn't look like my first film.And I give my theatre experience the credit for it. Because I have done theatre, it gives me a better understanding of a character, the story and a scene when I am shooting for films.You pick the nuances better. And that has helped me a lot.“
 
 FROM STAGE TO THE BIG SCREEN
 “A theatre actor can easily make the transition to films, but it's not necessary that a film actor will successfully be able to make the transition to the stage,“ says actor  . That's the power of being a theatre actor, he confesses. However, Siddharth adds, “That doesn't mean that filmmaking or acting in films is any less difficult. Both mediums throw their share of challenges, but hours of practice, days of hard work and months of living the same character on stage means you learn to be in the character for a long period of time. And that helps in doing films because a film takes days to complete and you have to be in the character for that long.“
 Theatre is where actors look for creative satisfaction. Actress Dipna Patel says, “In our films, very few characters are written for actresses and most of the roles that we get offered are those of the stereotypical bubbly and happy girls. Be it playing the role of a pilot or a 13 year old teenager on stage, theatre has given me a lot more creative satisfaction and happiness. And of course the entire experience of doing theatre helps any actor immensely while doing films.“
 Few also feel that their stint on stage has made them fearless actors, who now believe they can take on the world. Actor Mitra Gadhvi says, “While theatre and films are different mediums and I have enjoyed working in both, there are certain huge benefits that doing plays has ensured for me. Initially, per forming in front of a live audience was a huge boost for my confidence and over the years, the entire process that is behind doing a play ha s made me a lot more disciplined as an actor.“
 
 These actors surely know how to `play' it right and train themselves for better role play .
 
 
