CHENNAI: Opposing a plea moved by an association of   against the common   for engineering admissions conducted by the state, the Tamil Nadu government said such a process provides students belonging to socio-economically weaker sections access to various courses offered by engineering institutions across the state.

 The government made the submissions through a counter affidavit in a plea moved by Anna University Self-Financing Engineering Colleges Management Association in Tirunelveli seeking direction to the government to permit them to admit students on their own.
 
 The association said every year a large number of seats goes vacant in private institutions as the government fails to fill all the seats through counselling. “The Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional Educational Institutions Act was passed by the State in 2006 and came to effect on March 2007. As mandated by the Act, 65% of total seats available in unaided engineering institutions and 50% of seats in minority unaided engineering institutions are surrendered to the state government for admission through   ( ) conducted by Anna University,” the petitioner said.
 
 Claiming that the primary object of the TNEA to fill all the seats has almost become impractical since the introduction of the concept, the petitioner added that in 2007, the total seats available for counselling was 1,09,784 and out of this 94,346 were filled leaving 15,438 seats vacant. In 2014, the vacancy touched the one lakh mark and it raised to 1,18,000 seats in 2016. 
 
 To this the government said, “The single window system ensures the reservation policies of the state and the central government for sports, differently-abled, ex-service men and communal reservation as well. That apart, the government also provides complete fee waiver to the first generation graduates admitted under such system.”
 
 Pointing out that the counselling has already commenced on July 17, for the current academic year, the state added that scrapping the system at this stage will create confusion among the students. Justice K Ravichandra Baabu posted the plea to July 26 for further hearing.
 
 
