Gurgaon-based running group   Ki Paathshala has running and workout sessions for its members every morning. But this Sunday, their session was special as they had model-actor and fitness enthusiast   in their midst. The 53-year-old conducted a small session on the basics of fitness and running, telling the participants the correct ways to run, and answered questions too. Milind even got the women to do push-ups and plank exercises, supervising each participant personally. When the women asked for a demo, he duly obliged, doing 50 push-ups without breaking a sweat.

  
  Women working out early morning under Milind's supervision (BCCL/Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
  
 
 The event was organised in run-up to the breast cancer awareness run  , of which Milind is an ambassador. Around a hundred women had been waiting for Milind since 6 in the morning at Malibu Town on  . After warming up with a 3-km run, the group was joined by Milind, who started his ‘fitness class’. Daisy Singh, 55, the oldest member of the group, said, “The energy and enthusiasm today was double than what it usually is. We all pushed our limits just because Milind was here. I have never done as many push-ups as I did today.” The women also said that apart from his mere presence, the gyaan that Milind bought with him was also invaluable. Natasha Dogra, a resident of Sushant Lok, added, “He is an inspiration and when someone like him comes to speak to us, it motivates us to get better. In fact, I learnt so many new things from him today, such as the benefits of running barefoot.”
 
  
  Milind Soman gave the female fitness enthusiasts tips on running and diet (BCCL/Lokesh Kashyap)
  
  
  
  
 
 When the training session concluded, Milind asked if the women had any questions, to which a lot of women said, “Selfies!” Milind replied, “Anybody who wants selfies with me needs to do at least 10 pushups.” Not surprisingly, almost all the women duly obliged and ‘paid the fees’. “It was great to see the enthusiasm and energy in the folks here. The idea behind Pinkathon is to get more people into running and not just the professional runners. They run anyway. We want everyone to take up running and that will shows here. I see that the group has grown since I came here last year and that’s a welcome sign,” Milind told us later.
 
  
  Women had to do ten puhsups in order to get a selfie with Milind (BCCL/Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
