A   has discretionary right to decide whether or not to grant a  , but failure to   the decision constitutes deficiency in service.

 Case Study: Jayprakash Kushwaha wanted to purchase a flat owned by Rahul Lokhande in New Neil Aangan co-operative housing society in Nalasopara. The flat admeasuring 414 sqft was to be sold for Rs 4 lakh.
 
 Jayprakash approached Bank of Baroda to inquire about getting a housing loan. He was given to understand that it would be granted. He deposited the loan processing fee and the amount required for mortgage of the flat. Subsequently Jayprakash made a down payment of Rs 87,000 to Lokhande on March 12, 2007 and entered into a registered agreement for purchase of the flat. The balance amount of Rs 3,13,000 was to be paid through the bank loan.
 
 The society had issued an NOC for the sale of the flat and had also transferred the share certificate to Jayprakash, but the loan did not materialize. On inquiry, he was told that his loan application file was missing. Jayprakash then filed a complaint before the Thane District Forum against the bank, and also joined the seller and the Society as necessary and interested parties. Jayprakash sought a direction to the bank to release the loan amount. He also claimed compensation and costs.
 
 The bank contested the case, stating that the loan was not given as the society’s NOC was false and fabricated since it did not bear the signature of its president or secretary. The bank also alleged that the seller did not have a clear title to sell the flat.
 
 The forum observed that the bank had a duty to inform an applicant about the status of his house loan application. Since this had not been done, the bank was held guilty of deficiency in service. The forum directed the bank to reconsider the loan application and intimate its decision within 30 days. It also ordered the bank to pay Jayprakash Rs 1 lakh as compensation and Rs 10,000 as costs.
 
 The bank appealed to the Maharashtra State Commission reiterating its stand. The main grievance was that the forum had simply asked the bank to consider the loan application and communicate its decision. It claimed that there was no deficiency in its service, so the award of compensation and costs was not justified.
 
 The state commission observed that the society had not contested or disputed the complaint, so the bank’s allegation about the society’s NOC being fabricated was not acceptable and could not be a ground to refuse the loan. The commission also noted that the forum had merely directed the bank to re-examine the loan application of complainant and communicate its decision, thus granting the bank the discretion to consider whether or not to sanction the loan. It held that such a direction could not be faulted.
 
 The main question was whether compensation and costs could be granted under such circumstances. The commission concluded that no matter what the reason may be for refusal to grant the loan, the bank had a duty to communicate its decision along with the reason for rejection of the loan application, and failure to do so would be a deficiency in service for which the bank would be liable to pay compensation.
 
 Accordingly, by its order of April 24 delivered by D R Shirsao for the bench presided over by Justice A P Bhangale, the Maharashtra State Commission dismissed the bank’s appeal and confirmed the order of the district forum.
 
 Impact: The bank has the right to reject a loan application, but its decision must be communicated along with reasons.
 
 (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His e-mail is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)
 
 
