MUMBAI: The BMC has denied permission to the BJP to erect a stage and display khadi material along a one-km-long stretch of the   seafront on the occasion of PM  's birthday on Sunday.

 Mohit Kamboj, president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, BJP's youth wing, had approached the BMC seeking permission for the stage and display of khadi material. Kamboj, in his application, said khadi “is being promoted greatly by the Prime Minister“ and requested that the fabric be allowed to be put up on the NCPA-to-Marine Lines stretch. Several VIPs were expected to visit the place and sign on the displayed material to show their support to the PM. The organizers wanted to get CM Devendra Fadnavis to open the function.
 
 Rejecting the application, the civic body referred to what the Bombay high court had said in 2015 while disposing of a PIL against an open gym then set up on the Marine Drive promenade. It had directed the civic chief to form a committee under him to take a final call on such requests. In 2015, the Bombay HC had directed municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta to head a committee including the Mumbai police commissioner and chairman of the   (MHCC) to decide on any application or proposal at the Marine Drive promenade. The committee had then decided against allowing the gym there.
 
 Marine Drive is a heritage precinct, notified by the state government in May 2015, and for anything to be done there, the approval of the heritage committee is mandatory . Besides, after the HC's directions, the three-member committee's nod is a must for any proposal, a senior civic official said. “If no permission has been obtained from them, the application cannot be considered and would have to be rejected,“ the official said.
 
 When TOI contacted Kamboj, he said, “We have decided to withdraw the plea for permission as we realized there was a high court direction with regard to the area.“
 
 Marine Drive resident Anil Bhatia said one km is not a small stretch. “Lakhs of people of all age-groups use the stretch daily and deserve to move around freely .Besides, with so many netas coming in, it would restrict the area further and disrupt movement,“ he said.
 
 Atul Kumar, vice-president, Nariman Point Churchgate Citizens Association, said it is a constant challenge to keep the promenade free of any kind of encumbrance. “The promenade should be kept totally free as it's a public space meant only for pedestrians. Such events can be conducted at any other place in the city ,“ he added.
 
