BHOPAL:   have opposed a proposed entertainment park, saying any such step is fraught with dangers and is to impact health of the   or Bada Talab. By the way, the proposed entertainment park in the water body, which was constructed by legendary Raja Bhoj of Parmar dynasty, is to highlight the 1000-year history of Bhopal. Some 100 trees were felled and the civic body constructed a new retaining wall in the area.

 A week after TOI reported fish were dying in the millennia-old lake, activist Subhash Pandey alleged that proposed entertainment park and construction of a jetty would violate norms. 
 
 “Numerous trees have been cut for an entertainment park and musical fountain near Van Vihar, which is a designated national park.” 
 
 Construction of the jetty is in complete violation of norms,” Pandey said. Construction in the   bed cannot be permitted even by the state government as it violates various laws. “There has been no environmental assessment of the impact of these constructions along Upper Lake. Already, thousands of dead fish could be seen along the lake banks. The government should take immediate action against those responsible for this action,” he said. 
 
 Pandey visited the Upper Lake site and ascertained the loss and impact on biodiversity in the green belt. He is expected to make a plea before the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the matter. As per the Supreme Court directive, all cases pertaining to all Ramsar sites in National Green Tribunal ( ) were transferred to High Court.
 
 Owing to two projects, lake contour is impacted in violation of Water Act 1974 and Environment Protection Act 1986, said Pandey. The Upper Lake is the source of drinking water for 40% of Bhopal’s population.
 
 “We have proposed an entertainment park with fountains, sound and light show that would highlight 1,000 years of glorious history of Bhopal. I am not aware of any violations,” said BMC mayor Alok Sharma. The millennia-old lake, the pride of the state capital, is also a Ramsar site protected under United Nations convention. 
 
 “Only after the environmental impact assessment (EIA) was approved the construction was initiated. The jetty is being constructed at the location approved by the government and no trees were cut in the process,” said directorate of sports and youth welfare, deputy director (infrastructure) BS Yadav.
 
  Last year, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed BMC to halt construction of retaining wall and ordered for its demolition on the other side of the Lake along Khanugoan.
 
 On Saturday night, local corporator Sabista Zaki protested construction of a jetty in the Lake. It is being constructed by directorate of sports and youth welfare. The BMC has given a NoC for the same.
 
