CHENNAI: For the already strained finances of the state, the slump in the realty sector, aggravated by   and Madras High Court’s ban on sale of unapproved layouts, has caused further damage.

 Revenue from   and registration fees (indicators of realty transactions) for the current fiscal fell short by 24 per cent (Rs 7,985 crore) of the initial estimate of Rs 10,548 crore. It is a seven percent fall compared to last year, and has gone below the Rs 8,000 crore mark after a gap of three years. These statistics were rolled out by finance minister D Jayakumar while presenting the state budget on Thursday. He has pegged the revenue from the sector for the next financial year at a moderate Rs 8,220 crore, indicating that the government is not bullish about an immediate revival of the sector.
 
 According to government sources, eight lakh documents were registered in the state until July. But after September 9, when the HC ban on registration of unapproved plots was imposed, the sector slowed down. “In all, we saw registration of 18 lakh documents only this year, which is a 30% fall from the previous year,” said a senior official.
 
 Farmers’ distress in delta region resulted in land sales in Thanjavur, Trichy and Pollachi regions. The state witnessed a peak – 35.18 lakh documents - in registration in 2011.
 
 “Back to back disasters that hit the state in the last few months affected the industry,” said Akshaya Homes CMD T Chitty Babu. Industry sources said that after 2017 Pongal, market has shown signs of revival. “With substantial reduction of new launches over the last 18 months, reduction of unsold inventory and increase in commercial leasing, real estate is bound to grow. Adding to it, GST and RERA will increase costs, thereby prices will witness an increase,” said Vummidi Ananth, managing director, BBCL Builders.
 
 Devinarayan Housing & Property Developments Pvt Ltd MD N Nandakumar said the state has not been able to raise the bar with regard to infrastructure provisions, commensurate with the real estate developments happening in it. It results in deferment of buying decisions,” he said.
 
