HUBBALLI: Students of   in Dharwad are finding it incredibly hard to stay abreast of the important  , submission, et al. This is because the server of the varsity’s website (kud.ac.in) crashed 15 days ago.

 Students pursuing regular and correspondence courses at the university are unable to know their results. Besides the problems faced by students, the university has also been unable to call for tenders for construction works. The process is conducted online.
 
 Mallikarjun Dabbanavar, a BEd student from Haveri, said that he had been trying to learn of his first semester results for the past 10 days. “The results were announced at my college on January 9. Moreover, I can’t access information on reevaluation. University sources told me that January 18 was the last date I could apply for reevaluation. How can I apply at such a short notice?” Dabbanavar asked.
 
 Another BEd student, Arun Kumar complained that the university officials did not furnish adequate information over the phone. “They asked me to get the details from the website. In such a condition, they should extend the last date for submission of applications for reevaluation,” he said.
 
 Manjula Kamatagi, a third-year student of a correspondence course, said, “I received most of the information from the website. It’s a big problem when the website remains dysfunctional for such a long time.”
 
 The IT director at Karnatak University, M D Panchamukhi said, “The hard drive we were using had information dating back to 12 years on it. We have lost all of that when the server crashed. We have contacted IT engineers in Bengaluru, and will address the problem. The problem will be resolved in a week.”
 
 The IT department of the university has been struggling to re-develop the website, but has not succeeded yet due to technical problem.
 
 Basavraj Kambli, a contractor, pointed out that the varsity had called for tenders for many works, but he couldn’t participate in the process since the website had crashed. “I am from Gadag. So, it was not easy for me to get details regarding the calendar of events from the university. I had to do it over the phone,” Kambli said.
 
