MUMBAI: An epidemic of empty chairs is set to plague offices across the country the coming Friday as the long   weekend seems to have taken   seekers out of the demonetisation-induced stupor that had kept them from heading out in hordes during the December holiday season.

 For, unlike the lull brought on by demonetisation, which saw return airfares to Goa stay at a timid Rs 10,000, including in the last week of 2016, the Republic Day has brought the boisterous extended weekend sky high airfares back into action.
 
 The cheapest return airfare from Mumbai to Goa was Rs 18,500 and on flights operated at odd hours. For more bearable flight timings, the cheapest return fare came to Rs 36,000. Had one booked a Goa return ticket in early January for travel for the long weekend, it would have cost not more than Rs 8,000. Meanwhile, the cheapest one-way fare for Kochi on Wednesday was Rs 19,600 and Chennai, Rs 13,000.
 
 There were other weekend airfare trends. For instance, as the weekend progresses, airfares predictably go down. A Mumbai-Jaipur one-way fare for travel on Wednesday cost Rs 33,000 (only business class seats available) while for travel on Thursday morning it was Rs 7,363 and for Saturday, Rs 5,600. The same trend was seen last week with the most expensive fares for travel out of Mumbai or Delhi on January 25.
 
 Another trend was that of high return fares. Return flights from Goa, Port Blair were more than double the outbound fares. That’s because people depart for the extended weekend on different days, Wednesday, Thursday or even Friday, but most would want to return on Sunday.
 
 Sharat Dhall of yatra.com said that for the January 26 long weekend, bookings have been significantly higher than a year before. “Considering toda’'s fast paced life, the Indian traveler is looking at taking shorter, but more frequent breaks during the year. With this trend on the rise, and 11 long weekends coming up in 2017, we are expecting a great year ahead for the industry as a whole,” said Dhall.
 
 Kapil Goswamy of Bigbreaks.com, an online travel portal, too, said they have estimated a 50% rise in bookings for the extended weekend compared with the previous holiday season. “A large number of people didn’t go through with their Christmas holiday post demonetization. Now that the cash situation is easing, we are seeing a surge in travel plans and booking queries. Those who couldn’t make it for the Christmas break are also using this opportunity, and this pent-up travel demand has resulted in a sales increase of about 50% already,” said Goswamy.
 
 Karan Anand of Cox and Kings said there was a 25 % rise in inquiries for this weekend “Around 60% of our travellers have planned a domestic holiday while the rest have gone for short-haul international destinations,’’ said Anand.
 
 Even as you read this, thousands of Mumbaikars and Delhiites would have left the polluted urban environs behind for a brief interlude in the hills of Mahableshwar, Mussoorie or the beaches of Ganapatipule and Goa. With a welcome drink in hand, they may be completing the check-in formalities at hotels, home stays, villas where they will spend this weekend, either happy in the knowledge that they booked early and saved big or unhappy that they procrastinated.
 
 Weekend revelers who took to the roads, too, found the going difficult.
 
 Hill resorts in Mahableshwar or those in the jungles of Tadoba had a long waiting list by Wednesday evening. According to a state tourism department official, their resorts in Mahabaleshwar, Tadoba, Ganpatipule and Tarkarli have been inundated with tourists. “When they find there are no rooms left, they move to private hotels or bed-and-breakfast facilities in the area, but only after registering their names on the wait list, for those eleventh hour cancellations,” said an MTDC official.
 
 
