Say   and immediately serial lovers would be reminded of Sophie of the popular serial Ente Manasaputhri. 

 The small screen heroine, who was once the darling of television soaps, is back in the industry after two years with a new family drama. In a candid chat, the pretty actress, who has acted in more than 20 serials, talks about her current role as Archana, her detour into films and more.
 
 
 
 I moved to London after my marriage with Vipin, a software engineer. I became a mother soon and my son Samved is now four years old. I was away from the acting scene for a while but was receiving lots of serial offers. One day I received a call from the production controller of Rathrimazha who narrated the plot to me, which seemed interesting. The serial is an adaptation of writer Mayadevi’s novel from a renowned Malayalam weekly magazine. My in-laws gave me the confidence to work on the project as they had read the novel before. I play the protagonist Archana and did a screen test for the role. The break from acting had made me a little nervous, but I was chosen as Archana.
 
 
 
 Though I have acted in various soaps, Rathrimazha has a novel subject. It explores the rollercoaster ride of emotions in the life of the protagonist. After delivery I had become a little chubby and to becoming Archana, the producer of the serial Baiju Devraj sir had instructed me to shed a few kilos (laughs). So I used to walk to nearby shopping areas while in London. Prior to the shoot, I stopped eating rice, my favourite food, and controlled my diet. I also started to do workout on my own at home to become fit for the character. But now Archana is pregnant with the child of her lover Sudhi, played by actor Niranjan Nayar. I was glad when I was told to put on some weight again as my character is pregnant now (laughs). 
 
 
 
 With my present project, I have won back my dear audience, I feel. The character helped me receive accolades and love from the family audience. Their love is the most precious thing for me as an actress. When I come across viewers off screen, they express their love and concern for me like they are family. Some even tell me to reveal the pregnancy to Sudhi and not to feel sad about it!
 
 
 
 I am really scared of portraying wicked characters like that of Glory in Ente Manasaputhri. My character Marina in the serial Amma Manassu had negative shades and received lots of curses from the audience for her evil acts. I am really concerned about the way my audience accepts me on screen and I never want to lose their adoration. I had received lots of hate comments for that role and once while I was travelling in train, someone even cursed me. I tied amulets on my hand till the end of that serial schedule to protect myself from curses (laughs).
 
 
 
 I am glad I could be part of a few prominent Malayalam films including Santhosh Sivan’s Urumi. I played a small role as a Muslim woman in the opening scene of the film. My character has to cry in it and I made it in the first shot. Director Santhosh sir clapped and said I got it right. I felt privileged to be part of that movie. But I felt sad when I came to know that I was removed from a mainstream role in a film only because I was a serial actress. Be it the big or small screen, the parameter for casting should be the acting skills of the person and not the industry they are working in. 
 
 
 
 At present I have committed only to Rathrimazha. Films were on my mind when I made a comeback to the industry. I am looking forward to a good script. If I get a character I am confident of bringing alive on screen, I will surely go ahead. 
 
