HUBBALLI: A class 10 girl student of Vidya Vikas English Medium School, Chitradurga, mustered sufficient courage to stop social welfare minister H Anjaneya, who is also Chitradurga district in-charge minister, to put pressure on the government to improve government schools and colleges in the state.

 The district education department, in association with a few other organisations, organized Pratibha Karanji at Chitradurga on Friday at which Anjaneya was the chief guest. During his speech, he highlighted the condition of government schools, and asked people to send their wards to government schools and colleges.
 
 When he came down from the dais, Nayana Jogi, a class 10 student stopped him and requested him to listen to her grievances regarding the condition of government schools and college. She even requested him to meet her demands on priority.
 
 She requested the minister that all  , officers and government employees should send their children to government schools and colleges compulsorily. By doing so, the condition of government schools would improve since VIPs’ children would be its students. She requested the minister to convince the CM to pass a bill making this mandatory.
 
 After giving her a patient hearing, the minister said it was a good suggestion and he would bring it to the notice of the chief minister and the education minister at the earliest.
 
 Nayana told TOI: “I’m upset at the condition of government schools in the state, particularly in Chitradurga which is one of the backward districts of Karnataka. Most government schools don’t have proper toilets for girls and no playgrounds. I listened to the minister’s speech and I’ve heard many such speeches by others too. Many leaders talk about improving government schools and appeal to people to send their children to government schools. I wanted to tell the minister that the initiative should come from them and government officers.”
 
 She added, “Though I study in a private school, I was keen on joining a  . But I was forced to join a private school by my parents because of the lack of facilities in government schools. If the condition of government schools improves, many parents will send their children to government schools. I met the CM a few months back at Vikas Soudha during an interaction with children where I requested him to pass the bill making it mandatory for elected representatives and officers to send their children to government schools.” 
 
 She said: “I’m ready to join a government college if conditions are improved. I’ll continue to raise my voice to develop government schools in the state.”
 
 Pratap Jogi, Nayana’s brother said, “Due to the bad condition of government schools in our district, many people send their children to private schools. The education minister should take measures to provide basic facilities in government schools and colleges in the district.”
 
