Nagpur: Naina Wasnik, 26, eight-month pregnant, committed suicide by hanging herself with a scarf from the ceiling fan at her in-laws’ place at Bhandewadi on Monday after a dispute with husband Dharmapal over the baby to be born. While Naina wanted to abort, Dharmapal was keen to become father. 

 After registering the case as accidental death, Kalamna police on Tuesday have booked Naina’s husband Dharmapal and his mother Saraswatibai under stringent provision of dowry death following a probe. Dharmapal, who worked at a transporter’s office at Wardhaman nagar, has been already arrested in the case. Though Naina has held no one responsible for her taking the drastic decision in the suicide note, Kalamna police opted to register the offence as her mother lodged a stringent complaint against Dharmapal and his mother. 
 
 Naina and Dharmapal were neighbours before they had fallen in love and subsequently tied the knot around a year ago. Sources from police claimed that Naina and Dharmapal had fallen apart on the issue of accepting their role as parents. While Naina was in the favour of stabilizing their economic foundation and steady the family life before becoming mother, Dharmapal had been pressurizing his pregnant wife for retaining the baby. This led to frequent fights at their house. 
 
 It has now also come to fore that Dharmapal had been against Naina’s regular visit at her mother’s place which is in the vicinity. This aspect had added another dimension to the already brewing differences between the couple. Dharmapal and his mother learnt to have been also harassing Naina with repeated monetary demands. Naina’s mother had also paid Rs5,000 to Dharmapal and his family in the past. 
 
 Police said that on the day of incident, Dharmapal was informed by his mother that Naina had locked herself in the room. Dharmapal, who was at his office, was on his way back to home when mother called up for the second time to inform that she has already hanged herself. The cops from Kalamna police were alerted by the control room which was contacted by Dharmapal’s family. The body was later sent to Mayo hospital for post-mortem. 
 
 
