ROHTAK: The wife of a   from Haryana has been   to get the Rs 50-lakh   promised to the family by   in November last year.

 BSF head constable Rai Singh Indora, who hailed from Kheri Sampla village in Rohtak, was martyred in mortar shelling by Pakistan in Kashmir’s Rajouri sector on November 20 last year. With the government yet to release the compensation, Indora’s widow Sunita has been fretting over how she would pay for her three children’s school fees in April. “The government said it would take care of us. But even after more than 100 days, we have not received a single rupee,” Sunita told The Times of India on Sunday.
 
 She said her husband was the sole breadwinner of the family. “We have been left to fend for ourselves. It has become difficult to meet the family’s expenses. How will I pay the fees of my kids when they get promoted to the next class in April?” she asked.
 
 It was only on Saturday that Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik had put the state government in an embarrassing position by saying that announcements made by it after her Olympic win were for the media only. Under criticism, the state government had to issue a clarification within hours of Malik’s post on Twitter. But the martyr’s family claims that the district administration has not been paying any attention to them despite their repeated appeals.
 
 The brother of the BSF martyr, Kartar Singh Indora, said the administration had only given them assurances. “Administration officials only pay us lip service when we go to ask them about the compensation. We have gotten to hear nothing else from them,” he said. “The family has had to take loans just to meet expenses.”
 
 At Indora’s cremation on November 22, Haryana ministers Manish Grover and Krishan Lal Panwar had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 20 lakh for the martyr’s family, the installation of his statue, and a park after his name. After his family members and supporters blocked NH-10 alleging disparity, the CM intervened and announced the Rs 50-lakh compensation.
 
 Rohtak deputy commissioner Atul Kumar admitted to a delay in giving the compensation to family. He, however, added that the fiel had been cleared and the cheque would be handed over to the family “shortly”. 
 
 
