CHENNAI: It is still a mystery for many 
  to his camp N Thalavai Sundaram, T T V Dhinakaran’s trusted lieutenant and the state’s special representative in New Delhi, in the unfolding political crisis that has crippled his government. The strategy he used, it turns out, is marriage diplomacy.

 It all happened around the time 
  on August 22 saying they had lost confidence in the chief minister. Dhinakaran had asked Sundaram to accompany the rebel MLAs during their visit to Raj Bhavan. Sundaram did not deem it fit though.
 
 “I had been having some difference of opinion with Dhinakaran. I refused to go along with the rebel MLAs because my brand of politics is different. I do not want to be seen as a traitor who pulled down a legitimate government. I made my stand clear to Dhinakaran. His next demand was that I resign as TN’s special representative. He sought to remind me that I had got the post owing to his recommendation. I agreed at once to quit the cabinet rank post. In any case, the post has no power and I don’t get any benefits out of it,” said Sundaram.
 
 With battle lines already drawn, 
  then he was inadvertently pushing his friend into the opposite camp. Sundaram was in for a pleasant surprise when he walked into Palaniswami’s office. “Since a section of MLAs had revolted, the mood was tense in his office. But when I handed over my resignation letter to Edappadi, he tore it to pieces and said I should be concentrating on my daughter’s marriage, which was round the corner, instead of bothering about the crisis within the  . Since her mother was not there, my daughter would want me around,   reasoned. He also promised to attend the marriage and reception (on September 8 and 10) with his cabinet colleagues and asked whether I needed help. Edappadi and O Panneerselvam attended both the functions,” said Sundaram.
 
 In no time, Dhinakaran declared war against Sundaram, who had stood by the beleaguered Mannargudi scion, fighting his case in Delhi when he was arrested in an alleged Election Commission bribery case in April. Sundaram had even defied former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and maintained contact with Dhinakaran when she threw the entire Mannargudi clan out of the AIADMK in December 2011. Palaniswami is a seasoned politician, observes Sundaram. He expressed hope that “Edappadi will manage the present crisis. Whatever be the compulsion for the 19 MLAs to stay in Coorg, once they land in Chennai, they will support the government”.
 
