PUNE: The expansion work of the   has begun with the front area of the terminal building being extended by around six feet.

 The work began after defence authorities gave an in-principal approval to provide around 18 acre of land for the airport, in addition to 15.84 acres alloted last year. “The airport will see many projects in connection with expansion in the coming days,” sources at the airport said. 
 
 “At present, the expansion work of the current terminal building of the airport has started. Besides the arrival and departure gates, the entire structure of the front side of the building is being extended to almost five to six feet. The area that witnesses the passengers walking and lining up to enter through the arrival will also be extended to almost around eight feet. Through this, the area inside the terminal building that sees a lot of works like baggage check units etc, will be increased,” an airport official told TOI requesting anonymity. 
 
 Pune MP  , who is also the chairman of the Pune airport advisory committee, said a meeting of the panel was slated to take place soon to focus on the new projects.
 
 “There are many projects that are presently being carried out in and around the existing airport. We will soon have a meeting of the advisory committee with the officials of the  , in which some important decisions will be taken and announced,” Shirole said. 
 
 The   airport, which is a part of Indian Air Force’s defence air field, is presently rattled by many problems mainly related to passenger amenities. People have complained time and again about the lack of space and chaos at the airport on social media. The expansion works include the construction of another new and swanky terminal building and also the setting up of a cargo hub. 
 
 Presently, the roads approaching the airport are being developed and new roads have been planned too. Sources said with the expansion, the number of flight movements will also rise. Taking to TOI last week, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said two airports were required for the city and expansion works wouldn’t take more than a year’s time. 
 
 “Plans are afoot to come up with proper food outlets at the airport and one is being constructed near the arrival gate. There is need to tackle the issue of traffic in front of the airport during peak hours immediately. A new traffic plan should be put in place and the AAI should take it up on priority,” a source said. 
 
