After the ordeal of standing in long queues to with draw money from banks and ATMs,  , a 42-year homemaker had nurtured hopes that the   will have something in store for her. Watching budget telecast on TV was never a priority but this time she set aside her household work to watch the finance minister present the Budget.

 “I not only wasted my time but upset my mood for the whole day. There is nothing for me in the budget. Prices of gas, electricity, fuel, clothes, home appliances, school fees of my children, everything is going up,“ said Gupta with an irritating dismissal.
 
 With finance minister   preferring not to tinker with tax rates in view of the impending GST regime, there was less scope for the routine Budget analysis of `what has got cheaper and what's got costlier.' But Jaitley did reach out to the tax paying community by reducing income tax rates as the government believes that reducing tax burden will increase the base.
 
 However, people from different walks of life in the state said the focus of the Budget on farming community, infrastructure building, digital literacy, transparency, MSMEs, etc will result in long-term inclusive benefits.
 
 While there are not many Rajasthan-specific standalone projects announced in the budget except for a strategic crude oil reserve in Bikaner, the state can still benefit from multiple national schemes because of its natural advantages in them.
 
 For example, Rajasthan is a leading milk producer in the country. As the government plans to set up a dairy processing and infrastructure development fund with a corpus of Rs 8,000 crore over three years, the sector in the state can get a further fillip. Initially, the fund will start with a corpus of Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 The Budget proposes to set up five special tourism zones in partnership with the states anchored on special purpose vehicles. Rajasthan being a tourist state can expect to get a share in the pie.
 
 Similarly, in solar energy, the government proposed to take up the second phase of solar park development for additional 20,000 MW capacity and Rajasthan has already demonstrated its potential in the sector standing a better chance to gain from the scheme.
 
 The government also plans to take up select airports in tier-II cities for operation and maintenance in the PPP mode.Airport Authority of India Act will be amended to enable effective monetisation of land assets that would be used for airport upgradation. Rajasthan has several strips and is pushing to increase its air connectivity. The Budget proposal will help realise the state's ambition to build better airports to attract more tourists.
 
 But the most significant benefit that the state will have from the reduction of tax rates for MSMEs from 30% to 25% as most of the industry in the state is in the MSME sector.
 
 Rajasthan's real estate sector has been languishing for the past four years. The infrastructure status to affordable housing sector and the relief in the holding period for considering capital gains tax while selling a property are positive for the state.
 
