Turns out, there's no bad blood between   and   after all.

  In a recent interview, Lorde made comments that some interpreted as suggesting she was on the outs with the 27-year-old singer, but now, the   pop star has set the record straight.
 
  
  
  Taking to her Twitter page, she wrote, "Wow - something of a frustrating thing to have to address online, but here we go. Taylor is a dear friend. I love her very much. In the interview in question I had just been talking about Bowie and   ? those were the 'idols' I was referring to that I was saying I'm not friends with, not Taylor!"
 
  
  
  "I've always found people's perception of this 'squad' idea frustrating in the past; it was never some exclusive club or secret society, but a wide circle of people, some of whom I know, and some who I've never met, like most wide groups of friends. Forgive me for the mild eye roll I popped when it was brought up as if we're all blood members of a secret cult," she continued.
 
  The 'Green Light' hit-maker added, "Really shitty to wake up to headlines about whether or not you've jumped ship on someone you deeply respect and ride for. I want to say one more time that Taylor has been there for me in all my dark and light moments these past 5 years. All of them. I fucked up an interview question. Now go sip a beverage and head out on a walk."
 
  In the interview, when co-host David Koch asked her about how she "coped" with befriending some of the people she'd idolized, like Beyonce and Swift, the 20-year-old said, "The second you think too hard about it, you'll just go insane. It's best to be like, 'We're in wonderland and it's just what happens around here'."
 
  "Also," Lorde clarified, "I don't hang out with these people at all."
 
  "Hang on!" Koch said. "You're part of Taylor's squad; all the magazines tell us!"
 
  Lorde shook her head at the notion. "You know, you make friends in different places," the singer said. "But I think for the most part I'm not, like, calling my idols for advice necessarily." 
 
  
  
  
  
 
