PATNA: Schools have started guiding the students in the streams of their choice from Class XI itself by organizing career counselling sessions with experts.

 Recently, Radiant International School organized a career counselling programme for students of Class XI and XII. School principal Col Prem Prakash said from time to time, the school help out students to choose the right path. “The teachers and experts open up various career choices for students. Most of the students want to pursue engineering and medical because of pressure from their parents. We tell their parents to let their kids choose their own future,” he said.
 
 St Karen’s Secondary School principal K K Kunjachan said it is essential that students pursue those subjects that they like and enjoy studying. “Students need to understand that career can be made out of any subject, if it is studied with passion and diligence. Gone are the days when there were only few career choices. That’s what we try to make kids and their parents understand in career sessions,” he said.
 
 Navya Singh, a Class XI student of Loyola High School, said although she chose science stream, she never fancies pursuing her career in engineering field. “I want to be a fashion designer. I love to design my own clothes and draw variety of dress sketches since I was a kid. I hope my parents will continue to encourage me in my career,”she added.
 
 Another student, Saurabh Kumar (XII) of DAV (BSEB) said the counselling session has opened up numerous choices for him. “I want to pursue my career in banking sector and I am preparing for CA. Apart from that, I am also preparing for banking exams,” said the boy.
 
 The government schools are also helping students in selecting the right career. Over 1000 students of Class IX to XII took part in ‘Life skills: Career counselling’ programme organized by UNICEF and Bihar Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (BMSP) at  , Khusrupur, and secondary schools in Gardanibagh and Patna City recently.
 
 This pilot project is being implemented across 100 government high schools of Patna, Vaishali, West Champaran, Darbhanga, Madhubani and Purnia districts with support from   to reach out to the students. Total 500 teachers have been trained to help the students choose the career of their interest, trait, aptitude and skills.
 
 State media consultant of UNICEF, Avinash Ujjwal said, “This initiative will go a long way in the personality development of students and in assisting them in making informed career choices.” He added that the majority of government school students come from rural and underprivileged background.
 
 Ayush Anand, a Class IX student of Mahadev High School, said, “Such informative sessions inspire and motivate us to have big dreams and go to any extent for fulfilling them. I believe that hard work will bring success.”
 
