

 THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF came to power after having clearly articulated its manifesto to the people of Kerala. The massive support we received is to implement the idea of people's alter native that we have put forward through our manifesto, which itself was prepared based on several consultations, including the   on  , with people from all across the society on a wide spectrum of issues. 
 
 It is indeed worth mentioning that in our first year itself, we have covered each point of the 35 point programme mentioned in our manifesto, which is the pivot around which our efforts are spun together. 
 
 Each of our interventions has been directly in contrast with what the ruling dispensation at the Centre has been doing, in line with the wishes of their financial overlords.
 
 In an era of austerity measures, the government itself is taking the initiative to increase the area of cultivated land in Kerala. We are exploring the possibilities of boosting horticulture, milk production, poultry farming etc. We have initiated cultivation in vast tracts of lands that were lying fallow, some for even close to two decades, to rekindle the hope of our farmers.
 
 Governments everywhere are withdrawing from their responsibility in ensuring food security and providing education. However, in the state of Kerala, our primary focus is to ensure quality education to our students. We are also particular to not let education become a financial burden on our students and are shouldering an ambitious Rs 900 crore scheme to enable students to come out of debt.
 
 Adequate financial support will be provided to schools that have completed 200 years of service to the public, so that they can overcome their infrastructural short falls.
 
 While there was an undeclared ban on appointments under the previous regime, the   issued orders to publicise posts lying vacant in all its departments. Within the first 100 days itself, close to 10,000 vacant posts were announced and the PSC is proceeding with measures to fill each one of them. In fact, over the last one year the PSC has filled over 36,000 vacant positions, which was pending due to the earlier government's ban. 
 
 Simultaneously , around 3,500 new jobs have been created.We are also aware that the government alone will not be able to meet the requirements in terms of creating jobs. 
 
 Therefore, we welcome investors who can initiate job creating ventures without diluting any of the labour and environmental laws. At the same time, we are providing financial support to innovative ideas so as to enable our educated young people to use their training and skills for successful entrepreneurship within the state itself as well.
 
 The LDF government in Kerala is one that can proudly stake claim to the tradition of the first ministry of 1957, led by comrade EMS. In just 28 months, the short period by when it was dismissed, the EMS ministry had already completed 78 of its 92 promises made in the manifesto.
 
 Similarly, we are also determined to stay true to our promises. Not a single sector has been left untouched in our move towards achieving a people's alternative. The Left is different because we hold ourselves accountable to the people and as each day passes by, we are proving to the people of Kerala that we are accountable, by championing the people's alternative to globalization.
 
  (
 )
 
