AHMEDABAD: Eight-year-old   lost her father a year ago. Though her grandparents helped, her mother struggled to make ends meet and pay for her education. The recent   move by the Union government made it worse for her mother, who works at a garment stitching unit. Work dried up because of the note ban. In these tough times, TOI-Times Foundation’s campaign, ‘Pasti ki Masti’, came as a blessing for Bhumika, as her school fees were paid with the money raised by the campaign.

 The third edition of the campaign began earlier this month, supported by Wealth Out of Waste agency in Ahmedabad and Vadodara. The campaign is dedicated to ensuring that girl children who dropped out of school return to studying. There were several girls like Bhumika, on the verge of dropping out owing to financial constraints, who benefited from TOI’s campaign. Around 23 girls were supported by the campaign in its first leg. 
 
 Urmila Sharma, a resident of Ghodasar, also struggled after demonetization. She has two daughters, Nikita and Himanshi. “I haven’t completed my schooling and because of that, I am struggling to find a well-paying job to nurture my family,” said Urmila, who is the sole bread-earner of the family. “Therefore, I am all the more determined to give education to my daughters. After demonetization, I didn’t really know how to give my children two meals a day.” She said she found it difficult to manage despite some support from her father and brothers. “Had my daughters’ school fees not been paid by the campaign, their dream of studying medicine would have been dashed,” she said.
 
 The help extended by the campaign has encouraged parents. “No matter what it takes, I will make it a point to educate my daughter,” said Khalid Shaikh, a rickshaw driver in Juhapura whose daughter’s school fees were paid by the campaign. “She should fulfil her aspirations,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 ‘Pasti ki Masti’ campaign is an initiative to support education of poor children. Proceeds from the sale of old newspapers are channelled into the mission. The campaign has saved 114 girls from dropping out of school and has helped buy stationery and uniforms for 7,136 children since July 2015. The campaign is organized by TOI, Times Foundation, and NIE.
 
