PATNA: The nitty-gritty of the rehabilitation of the  , including alternate traffic arrangement, will be finalized on January 9 at a meeting to be chaired by deputy chief minister (CM)  .

 While Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is slated to commission the rehabilitation works on the dilapidated Setu on January 15 through videoconferencing,   will be present at Hajipur for the inaugural event.
 
 Though the groundwork for commencement of rehabilitation works has been going for more than a month, Patna traffic police claim that they have not been consulted. “I have neither been communicated about the rehabilitation works nor consulted for alternate traffic arrangement,” Patna traffic SP P K Das told TOI on Saturday.
 
 According to senior officials in the road construction department, the traffic SP will be invited to participate in the meeting to be held on January 9. “A letter is being sent to the traffic SP to participate in the meeting which will be chaired by deputy CM Tejashwi Yadav. AFCON Infrastructure Ltd, the firm which was awarded the project, will give a detailed presentation on execution of the project,” said national highway wing’s chief engineer  .
 
 The existing superstructure of the Gandhi Setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like Rajendra Setu or Koilwar rail bridge are proposed to be erected under the rehabilitation process. The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months utilizing an estimated outlay of Rs 1,742.01 crore.
 
 The entire work has been divided into two phases — upstream and downstream. Sources claimed that the work on upstream — Patna to Hajipur — will be taken up first and it is only after commencement of vehicular movement on that stream that work on the other stream will start.
 
 In fact, the upstream flank of the bridge is comparatively more damaged and repair work is already underway on this flank between the 43rd and 46th pillars of the bridge. The need of repairing the bridge was first felt in 1991. Around Rs 200 crore has already been spent on maintenance of the bridge since 2004.
 
 According to sources, AFCON is expected to bring three big concrete-cutting machines from Germany for undertaking the demolition work following commissioning of the project on January 15. Around 1 lakh ton (metric) of concrete waste will be generated during replacement of the existing concrete superstructure with a steel structure. Sources claimed that the debris generated during dismantling works will be stored at a yard and disposed of after crushing the concrete material within 25km from the bridge.
 
 
