Nagpur: The Nagpur district and city have 14 Grade ‘A’ public libraries with 10 of them being located within the municipal limits. Regulars at Rajaram Sitram Wachnalaya’s both centres in Sitabuldi and Dharampeth, Saraswat Wachnalaya in Dhantoli and Adarsh Wachnalya can take pride as the public libraries are among the 10 with the status of Grade ‘A’.  Besides this, there are total 234 public libraries in the city and district having plenty of books and range of services for avid readers, students and competitive exam aspirants from poor economic background.  Unlike other public facilities, all the libraries are functioning smoothly catering to educational needs of students.  District library officer Gajanan Kurwade explained that the grading doesn’t mean that one library is better than the other but they are stages. “Grade ‘A’ is awarded to those having facilities such as 15,000 plus books, infrastructure, subscriptions and fulfillment of government criteria. All 234 are equally good. A library having 300 books falls under Grade ‘D’ at the beginning. It is awarded different grades as it grows. However, the government has put the process on hold for the last four years. Thus, some libraries are still in Grade ‘D’ even if they have grown bigger,” he said. The facts were revealed by the district library officer’s office following a Right to Information (RTI) query by Abhay Kolarkar. Kolarkar had sought the information on January 20, 2017. He had demanded data regarding district libraries from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2016. Kolarkar wanted to know how many public libraries were opened in the city as well as the district, how many of them were closed, how many had sanctioned grant, total funds spent on them, wasteful expenses if any, number of private libraries and employees. In its reply on February 15, 2017, the office replied that none of the 234 public libraries was neither shut down nor misused. It stated that funds worth Rs1.37cr in 2014-15 and Rs3.08cr in 2015-16 were sanctioned and utilized. However, the office had no information about private libraries. It also stated that since the office is following government rules, the sanctioned funds haven’t been misused. Kolarkar feels the number of libraries are too less as compared to the needs of the region. District library officer Kurwade admitted that they need to increase the numbers but said all the public libraries were doing a good job. “Vidarbha should have more public libraries and e-libraries,” Kolarkar said. Kurwade said around 2,100 subscribers are taking benefit from the district library, that also houses his office in Dhantoli. “We have reading room for 50 students, well equipped study centre and IT resources for filling online exam forms. Facilities for the handicapped students too are available. Every year 25 students enrolled with the library are getting placed in government jobs,” he said. 