NEW DELHI It was a loud and colourful affair on Sunday as thousands of Delhiites sporting track pants and jogging shoes took part in the Max Bupa   for  , organised in association with The Times of India. 

 The 5th edition of the Delhi walk was flagged off from the   National Stadium by actors Kangana Ranaut and Saif Ali Khan and saw enthusiastic participation from different age groups — including schoolchildren below the age of 10. 
 
 The 5km and 2km walks kicked off after a session of zumba and there was no shortage of advice for the people taking part in it.
 
 “Even for people who go to the gym, cardio exercises are as important as lifting weight and walking/jogging is the best way to stay fit. Just devote half an hour of your day towards it and you will reap its benefits in the long run,” said Khan. 
 
 Ranaut, on her part, explained how walking was an important part of her fitness regime. “I try to go for a walk whenever possible, as it keeps you fit.”
 
 For a majority of Delhiites, though, it was an occasion to come out with their families and head for a long walk down India Gate. 
 
 “You rarely get enough time to walk, especially when you are working. So, such events are the perfect catalyst to bring you back outside. This is why my family came along, so we could all have a good day of exercise and walking,” said Sarabjeet Kaur, an MNC worker.
 
 Participants also got a dose of a newly launched app — Chal Bajaa, aimed to popularise walking through its unique concept. 
 
 Explaining the app, Ashish Mehrotra, MD & CEO of Max Bupa, said: “It will play music when you walk. 
 
 The music stops when you stop walking. So, in a way, it motivates you to keep walking as much as you can. The aim is to make people add walking to their daily routine, even if it is for a little while,” said Mehrotra.
 
 Prizes for the 10km, 20km and 50km walks held on Saturday and Sunday morning were also distributed, with a number of marathon runners also part of the 5km Walk for Health. 
 
 “I have taken part in marathons before, but this was the first time I took part in the Walk for Health. The message is quite good as it encourages people to aim for a healthier lifestyle by actively walking and it does not take much time either,” said Ramanpreet Singh, another participant. 
 
 Vipin:*
 
 
