Post the Priyadarshan-Hansal Mehta spat on what qualifies as a National Award-winning 'fantastic social issue', DT explores the topics that tend to be awarded in the 'Best Film on Social Issues' category.

  After the winners of the 
  were announced recently, the jury head of the feature film section, filmmaker Priyadarshan, said that the regional films are 'themed around fantastic social issues', because of which they won  . Reacting to the statement,  , whose film on the rights of the LGBTQ community, ' ', did not get any recognition in the awards, said that it rankles him that LGBTQ rights do not qualify as 'fantastic' social issue according to Priyadarshan.
 
  A look at past winners in the social issues category of the National Awards shows that women's empowerment or women-centric films seem to be an all-time favourite with the jury. And 'Pink' winning the award this year is no rarity. 
 
  The 'Best Film on Social Issues' award is given in two sections –   and non-feature films. In the non-feature films section, the award has been given to women-centric films or documentaries about women achievers in the last few years. However, in the feature films section, films that awarded over the years have focused on a variety of issues, like how hartals and marches curtail citizens’ freedom of movement, dwarfism, religious conversions and alcoholism.
 
  
 'Pink' was a story set in Delhi, which created waves across the country and the director and producers of the film say that it might be local in its storyline but is global in its appeal. And they believe that probably that’s the reason why it got the National Award for the best film on social issues category. Shoojit Sircar said, "While shooting the film our cast and crew broke down a number of times. When we saw the film for the first time after editing, we realized that it will be remembered, people may like it or not but they won’t be able to ignore Pink. But a National Award in this category was not expected."
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  Talking about the category, Shoojit said, "Pink made the audience talk about these things without lecturing. Of course, it helped that the man giving those loud and clear messages was 
  in the film. Be it repetition of the message 'No means No' or government organizations screening 'Pink' in schools and colleges and the police discussing Zero FIR – these were a few things which we never expected, but they did happen. But Delhi is still unsafe, girls are being attacked in parks, molested on roads and a number of such unfortunate incidents continue to happen, and a film can't stop that from happening. And still, we have to do our part, and contribute whatever little we can."
 
  Talking about women's empowerment, Shoojit said, "Yes, women's empowerment is the most used word these days. But you have to say it again and again, atleast 10 times daily to people – like you pray, like you eat, so that it gets registered in the minds of people." The jury seems to have taken note of it.
 
  
  For four years, the non-feature films awarded in the social issues category have all been women-centric 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The director of the film   believes that it’s because it made all the right noises like any other good issue-based film. He said, "We are happy that through the medium of cinema, we are at least able to initiate conversations around topics, like Zero FIR. Although we were expecting the best feature film award, nevertheless, this recognition proves that even popular cinema can go the way of issue-based cinema."
 
 
 
