Even as the number of youngsters at VOC Grounds protesting for   keeps swelling day by day; the Supreme Court stated on Friday that the verdict on the controversial   will be delayed by a week as requested by the Union government. The   against the ban on the bull-taming sport have intensified in the last few days and on Friday; Tamil Nadu was partially shut down. CT spoke to a few  , whose sons and daughters are protesting at the grounds. Here’s what they had to say.

 Homemaker Rathinam G, whose son Karthik has been part of the protests from day one, tells CT, “My son, who works at a private firm in the city, has been there at ground zero since the protests began. It’s good to see so many youngsters protesting peacefully for a cause. He drops in at home when he is free and brings along his friends as well. I serve them food and tea. They go back to the ground with a renewed spirit. At a time, when every child is obsessed with cell phones and video games, it’s good to see youngsters coming together for a rural, traditional sport.”
 
 Seconding Rathinam is newspaper distributer VP Govindasamy. “My daughter Shanmugapriya has been protesting at VOC Grounds along with her friends. I drop her at the ground every morning and pick her up in the evening. The protestors are being served food and refreshments at regular intervals. The only drawback is that I am unable to reach her at all times due to network issues. But, I have no fear. She is quite safe amid the sea of people.”
 
 S Pattathurajan, another father, shares, “Earlier, my daughter Kanimozhi had a bunch of friends. Now, the entire student community is her friend.” Govindasamy adds that when women participate in such issues, it opens the doors for them in political avenues. “The youth of the state today have started addressing issues that matter. They no longer will be betrayed by political outfits. Soon, there will be a day when the youngsters in the state will form the government.”
 
 Filmmaker Praveen Nandagopal, on the other hand, has been partaking in the protests along with his family. “My brother, who rears a bull, thought that taking the bull to every house in our locality in Sowripalayam, will help them relate to the cause a tad more effectively. In fact, people were quite excited when we walked around with the bull. We have also been taking part in the protests at VOC Grounds.”
 
 Businessman S Kanthasamy’s son, Mohanraj K, has still not returned to Dubai, where he is employed as a private consultant. “He flew down to Malappuram to celebrate Pongal. But, the moment he heard that there was a protest for Jallikkattu, he left to Coimbatore. He has been in the city for the last four days. Since, he studied in Coimbatore and has many friends there, I didn’t worry. I want to join him at the venue, but due to my work commitments, I cannot afford to do that.” When asked about the opinion of his friends in Kerala, he stated, “All my friends in Kerala are for Jallikkattu. I am glad that even Kerala has extended its support.”
 
 In the meantime, a public sector employee on condition of anonymity told us, “As a government employee, I am not supposed to take part in any protests. But, I wanted to contribute to the protests in some way. Hence, I decided to serve food for people at the venue. Every day, before I get home from work, I go to the VOC Grounds and hand over few food packets. Three of my friends have pooled in money for the same. We will continue supplying food till the protests go on.”
 
