KOCHI: A petition has been filed before the Kerala high court seeking police protection for extracting earth for constructing a training ground for participants to the 2017 FIFA U-17 World Cup. 

 The petition was filed by   of Anchalpetty in Muvattupuzha and two others seeking police protection for extracting 17,500 cubic metres of earth from their property at Memury village for constructing a training ground at Veli in  .
 
 Application was filed for excavating ordinary earth from 1.12 hectares (around 2.77 acres) out of the 5 acres and 5 cents of owned by Arun George. Environmental clearance was granted by district environmental assessment committee. The department of mining and geology granted permission for removing ordinary earth from 91.46 ares (around 225 cents). The renovation work at Veli ground was to be completed by April 3. However, some local residents objected to excavation of earth and police failed to provide protection despite producing the permits, the petition said.
 
 Responding to the petition, district collector   filed an affidavit that stated, "It is now learnt that the entire earth necessary for the purpose of making Veli and Parade Ground ready for FIFA World Cup is already transported to the said areas." The organizing committee of FIFA at Fort Kochi counted the number of truck loads of ordinary earth transported to the two grounds, the collector informed. A certificate issued by the nodal officer of   2017 regarding the number of lorry loads of earth received was also produced before the court by the collector.
 
 The collector's affidavit further said 5,500 cubic metres of ordinary earth was received at two stadiums according to FIFA organising committee whereas permission was granted for extracting 22,500 cubic metres of earth. The quantities of earth removed from the property and that received at the stadiums can be verified through the taluk surveyor, the affidavit stated.
 
 According to a letter issued to the geologist by the nodal officer of FIFA on March 14, 146 truckloads (1,500 cubic metres) had reached Veli ground until March 11 and 1,500 cubic metres more earth is required. 
 
 At Parade Ground, 7,000 cubic metres of earth is required for ground filling, the affidavit had said.
 
