Last week, the state government signed a MoU with the Railways to introduce a commuter railway system in Bengaluru. While this is certainly a step in the right direction, execution is likely to take some time. But this should not discourage you from ditching your car/bike and hopping on to train instead, as there are many inter-city trains that you can travel on to go across Bengaluru in half the time and at a fraction of the cost.   had reported earlier about the benefits of train travel within the city.  , a techie and an advocate of train travel, has got other like-minded people on board, who are doing their bit to encourage Bengalureans to give the trains a try, just once.

 
 
 Filmmaker and entertainment professional   is readying a documentary that will educate people about trains. “Most people don’t know that there are railway stations across the  , which is why they haven’t tried the trains. Instead of waiting for the suburban rail to become a reality, which will take time, we want to encourage people to use the existing facilities,” he says. Pradeepa further adds, “We have filmed people travelling on the trains and have interviewed many prominent people. We intend to take the documentary to companies, who, we hope, will encourage their employees to travel by trains.   has agreed to come onboard for the music.”
 
 
 
 Those who book cabs using apps know how convenient the service is. Soon, there will be an app that will let you track trains in real-time and also give you other useful information.  , whose company is developing the app, says, “It will be an easy-to-use app, which will give you all the information you need. If you are near Majestic, for instance, the app will tell you what station is closest to you, the different trains that you can hop on to from there, the time at which they arrive, the travel time, the destination and the distance. The app will also allow people to share information about the status of the trains. In the second phase, users will be able to see where the train is in real time.”
 
 
 
 Plans are also afoot for a popular app-based cab service and the   to provide feeder buses to and from the stations. Suhas, who has been in talks with both parties, says, “The cab company will figure out pre-determined stops for its shuttle service, from where people can board the vehicle to travel to the railway station from their home, and then to their companies when they reach their destination. BMTC officials are doing a survey to determine how many vehicles will be required to and from the railways stations.”
 
