CHENNAI: It may take a long time before a giant A380 can land at   as the current expansion plans have yet again hit a hurdle with   (AAI) scaling down its demand for land from 200 acres to 150 acres after the state government expressed its inability to acquire that much land.

 AAI had asked the government to provide 200 acres at different locations around the operational area of the airport to enhance its flight-handling capacity. Now, airport authorities have decided to drop their demand for land on either ends of the main runway. Additional space is required to improve Runway End Safety Area (RESA) which is now kept at a minimum and is also uneven. At airports in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, the   is a rectangular plot double the size of the runway’s width.
 
 “After the state government requested to keep the land requirement to a minimum, we decided to drop the land needed on either ends of the runway. They told us that the areas were densely populated and would be difficult to acquire,” a senior AAI official said. “We are looking at getting land on the Manapakkam-end of the second runway, some space between the main runway and the second runway for extending a taxiway and to build hangars and other facilities. The revised requirement has been submitted to the government,” he added.
 
 Though the main runway is currently being used for handling wide-body passenger and  ,   planes, Antonov planes, and A380s cannot land in the future because of the shortfall in safety area and elevated obstacles nearby. The runway’s usable length has not been curtailed but obstacles like the elevated metro rail line can make landing heavier planes a tight affair, said a pilot.
 
 “There should be proper RESA on either end of the runways. Now, they have minimum space and there are obstacles like metro rail and buildings,” former pilot and air safety expert captain Mohan Ranganathan said. “This means that signals of Instrument Landing System (ILS) that help flights home in on a runway will not be efficient. It will be unsafe if huge planes like A380 land.”
 
 The airport had asked for 200 acres when AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra met chief secretary   in June. With the government indecisive on a second airport at Sriperumbudur, AAI will require all the land available to augment its flight-handling capacity. The airport, which lost a chance to boost its capacity after the parallel runway plan was dropped, is now trying to make full use of the second runway so that more than 40 flights can be handled per hour. Ranganathan said AAI had asked for 15acres on the Manapakkam-end of the second runway because there was no space to install ILS and other landing aids on the Trident-end of the runway.
 
