TRICHY: In the wake of a string of house break-ins, robberies and chain-snatching cases, the Trichy city   have resumed the surveillance of ‘Alpha’ teams to ensure constant vigil.

 The city police had constituted   and Beta teams a few years ago to ensure intensive patrolling. They were later dismantled for reasons best known to the police department. However, the newly-appointed commissioner of police, A Arun, decided to revive the Alpha team.
 
 All the 14 police stations in four ranges – Cantonment, Golden Rock, Fort and Srirangam – have the team members comprising a constable from the station and a constable from the armed reserve (AR) police, sources said. There are 17 Alpha teams in 14 police stations of Trichy city with Srirangam, Woraiyur and K K Nagar Police Stations having one additional team each as the jurisdictional area of those stations are larger than the others.
 
 The teams have been given a two-wheeler and a walkie-talkie. “Alpha teams are exclusively formed to prevent chain snatching, house burglary, attention diversion thefts and pickpocketing. The team have the photographs of history-sheeters. They go around their limits and take note of the locked houses so as to give special attention during night hours. They also conduct vehicle checks and verify vehicle records,” a police officer told TOI.
 
 The teams work from 7am to 2pm, 2pm to 9pm and 9pm to 7am. “As the local police constables are derived from the crime prevention wing, they work under the control of inspectors of police, (crime). The assistant commissioners of police (crime) review their work on a day-to-day basis. Deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic) S Prabakaran supervises the overall performance of the teams regularly,” the officer added.
 
 To streamline policing operations, the city police had put in place a new beat system on October 2016. Under it, 14 police stations in four ranges have been divided into 63 beats. Each beat is manned by four policemen, from the rank of constable to special sub-inspectors. With the ongoing beat system, the Alpha teams would further ensure safety of denizens, police sources said.
 
