CHENNAI: The proposed   for   will decide the number of members to be elected by each  . It will   wherever required and also identify wards to be reserved for SC and ST communities. 

 Official sources said it would take more than six months for the commission to present its report to the government and only after that can poll officials hold elections to local bodies.
 
 Five cases are pending in the Madras high court on the local body elections. Since October last year, there are no elected local bodies in Tamil Nadu. Special officers carry out the duties of elected representatives. The DMK, last year, moved the Madras high court seeking, among other things, delimitation, reservation to various categories including STs, rotation of reserved seats as per the Constitution and sinking of local body voters' list with that of the Election Commission of India.
 
 "The last delimitation commission for local bodies was set up in 2011 when the corporation was extended," said an official. During the debate in the House, DMK leader S Duraimurugan demanded that the government come up with a timeframe for releasing the commission's report. Otherwise, it would delay the conduct of the local body elections, said DMK MLA U Mathivanan. He said the party was not against the constitution of the commission.
 
 Noting that a state-level commission would not suffice, he said officials at lower level also needed to be engaged in the exercise without any interference from the state government. Velumani said, "Delimitation should take place after each census, however, the DMK did not take any such measure and conducted the local body polls in 2006 based on the 1991 census".
 
 The AIADMK government could not take up the initiative in 2016 immediately after the assembly polls, Velumani said. The 2011 census data was submitted to the government only in 2014, he said.
 
 As per the original poll notification issued on September 26, 2016, elections were to be held in two phases on October 17 and 19, 2016. The matter was dragged to court subsequently. The Madras high court asked the state to complete the process by December 31, 2016 after setting right the anomalies cited in the writ petitions by the DMK and others.
 
 Assailing the order, the state election commission filed appeals and gave an undertaking to the court that it would complete the process by May 14, 2017. Meanwhile, the government extended the special officers' terms by six months - till December 2017.
 
 
