CUTTACK: Even as the mercury continues to rise, proceedings in the Federation Cup heat up as well with the tournament entering its business end. Come Sunday afternoon, 4 pm to be precise - that time of the day when extreme heat forces the streets to wear a deserted look here -   and   will battle for a berth in the final at the  .

 The two teams, which cannot be more different, took contrasting routes to the semis. After a fairly convincing 3-2 win against Shillong Lajong in their opener, Bengaluru FC were outplayed by DSK Shivajians. They sneaked through to the semis with a 1-1 draw against  , although at the cost of a Grade 1 muscle injury to skipper  .
 
 Chhetri, who underwent a scan on Saturday, could be out for the rest of the season.
 
 "Sunil may miss the final, if we do make it. The hot and humid weather has made his injury worse," said BFC's Spanish coach Albert Roca, criticising the hectic schedule of the tournament. There is also some concern over the fitness of midfielder Alwyn George.
 
 If that was not enough, Bengaluru FC's regulars - most of whom have played all three matches so far - have got a day less than the Aizawl FC to recover. No wonder Bengaluru FC chose to have a pool session in their Bhubaneswar hotel instead of rigorous practice on Saturday. "We are trying our best to recover so that we can give our best in the semifinal," added Roca.
 
 For Aizawl, it has been a different story. After surviving first-half jitters against  , when they rallied from a two-goal deficit to win 3-2, the I-League champions have played like true champions. Having secured their semis spot with comeback victories in their first two games,   fielded an all-Mizo team against   and were still able to hold the Kolkata giants 0-0.
 
 Having topped Group A, Aizawl look to be the team to beat. But Jamil is not taking anything for granted. "Bengaluru FC are a very good team. They have quality players both in defence and in attack. We'll have to play very well to make the final," the 40year-old said on Saturday.
 
 The only concern for the north-east club is the injury sustained by veteran defender  , who Jamil said had a "70% chance to be fit for the semifinal". While Mehta watched from the sidelines, his teammates underwent a full-fledged practice session at Police Ground here on Saturday morning.
 
 After the regular training sessions, Jamil made his wards practise spot-kicks, with an eye on the tie-breaker in case of a stalemate. "Knockouts are a different ball game. From now on, defence is going to be a lot more important for all teams," he added.
 
 Jamil's cautious approach notwithstanding, Aizawl will start as favourites against a depleted and dispirited Bengaluru FC.
 
