COIMBATORE: In a bid to bring down the number of   across the city, the traffic police are on a drive to paint such accident-prone areas in yellow to help motorists take necessary precaution while driving through those routes.

 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) S Saravanan said the yellow mark showed the exact spot of the fatal accidents. “The city has reported 24 fatal accidents last month. At least four accidents had been reported since February 1. We have marked the fatal accident spots with yellow paint with a warning ‘fatal’. We hope this would create awareness among the motorists to prevent fatal accidents,” he said.
 
 In 2016, as many as 300 people were killed in 285 fatal accidents reported across the city. “We found that most accidents took place on  , Trichy Road, Pollachi Road and Mettupalayam Road. As many as 49 people were killed in accidents on Avinashi Road, 27 people on Trichy Road, 26 on Pollachi Road and 5 on   in last year. We are trying to control the fatal accidents by taking various steps,” Saravanan said.
 
 College students usually cross the Avinashi Road near PSG College of Arts and Science, while patients cross the road near Aravind Eye Hospital. Both areas are marked accident-prone zone. “The road has enough width and many motorists speed their vehicles, causing many accidents on Avinashi Road. So, we plan to create awareness among the students and patients,” the official said.
 
 Saravanan said motorcycles were involved in 40 % of fatal accidents in the city against the state average of 34%. As per the data available with the city traffic police, youths and elderly people topped the list of fatal accident victims. As many as 40 victims were in the age bracket of 21-25 and another 44 victims were in the age group of 61-70 , last year. Most elderly victims were pedestrians.
 
 The data also revealed that 23 people were killed between 7pm and 8pm, 20 between 8pm and 9pm, 23 between 9pm and 10pm, 18 between 10pm and 11pm and 16 people between 11pm and 12am in fatal accidents last year.
 
 “Most accidents were reported at night hours in the city. So, we plan to tighten night vehicle checks in the city,” Saravanan said.
 
