NASHIK: The demand for the king of fruits from abroad is pushing up the export   

 After taking the lead in exporting quality grapes and onions, Nashik is now fast emerging as an export hub for mangoes too. Last year, about 1,000 metric tonnes of mangoes were despatched from Nashik and the figure is expected to touch 1,500 metric tonnes this year. 
 
 Farmers from Konkan and from Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and parts of Karnataka send their produce to Nashik for treatment to make the fruit pesticide-free before it is exported.
 
 The mangoes undergo   process at the pack-house at Halcon, a joint venture between the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd and Container Corporation of India (Concor), in Ozar and the irradiation process at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre at Lasalgaon. Once these processes are done, the fruits are packaged at the pack-house of Halcon at Ozar before transported by road to Mumbai airport and despatched overseas.
 
 Hot water treatment process on mangoes is necessary for export to European countries. It is conducted at the pack-house of Halcon located at the Inland Container Depot (ICD) and air cargo complex at Ozar, about 20 km from the city. Moreover, irradiation process on mangoes is mandatory for export to countries like  . It is done at Lasalgaon irradiation centre in the district, an official from Halcon told TOI. 
 
 According to him mangoes grown across Maharashtra and many other states are exported from Nashik.
 
 “The irradiation of mangoes is mandatory before exporting to countries like USA and Australia. Hence, irradiation process is also conducted at Lasalgaon irradiation centre of Bhabha Research Centre (BRC). Last year, around 1,000 metric tonnes of mangoes were exported from here to European and non-European countries. This mango season, we are planning to export 1,500 metric tonnes of mangoes to different destinations,” the official added. 
 
 Halcon had set up an Inland Container Depot (ICD) and Air Cargo Complex near   in Nashik, which was inaugurated on March 15, 2008 by the then Union defence minister A K Antony. The company has invested nearly Rs 70 crore to upgrade the existing infrastructure.
 
 The facility at Ozar airport consist of an air cargo complex, warehousing, integrated packing centre for perishables, cold storage, screening, comprehensive ground handling services for airlines,  , bar-coding, labelling and customs’ linkage.
 
