We all know obesity is the root cause for many diseases. Fearing the same, Ankit Saxena, 108 kilos started his weight loss journey. Today he is 32 kilos lighter and determined to lead a healthy and happy life. 

 
  Ankit Saxena
 
 
 108 kgs
 
 
  32 kgs (76 was my lowest reached) 
 
 
  I do live a planned life. When I think I have to achieve, I do achieve. My turning point was when my not-so-delightful physique and appearance made me go through some unforgettable pits and falls (which eventually became my source of motivation). My will to have a good physique combined with my aim to make my future healthier did not allow me to fail. Obesity is the root of all diseases and I didn't want to fall victim to these  . I was adamant to change the course of my life.
 
 
  One Glass Milk + some fruits
 
 
 I did crash diet. For me, my lunch was a glass of juice along with a fruit (an Apple) but I would like to mention that crash diets are not healthy. 
 
 
  1 Roti + Lots of Salad + Green Veggies or Dal (without ghee). However, I do try to avoid dal in dinner. 
 
 I recommend, from my experience, that do have a small lunch, juice and fruit in evening snacks and avoid eating daal for dinner.
 
 I never forget to: I drink one glass of water (boiled water) mixed with 1-2 teaspoons of honey as soon as I get up in the morning. I also indulge in Black Coffee - it gives me extra stamina for running. You will love Black Coffee when you see your stamina go up while running or brisk walking in the evening.
 
 
 
 
 
  Running was my main weapon for achieving Weight Loss. 
 
 I regularly used to run 2-3 Kms in the evening along with morning walk. Though running and walking is important, it is not the kilometers you run that are important- it is the regularity. You may not see the benefits early on but don't get disheartened. Gradually you would be able to see the results (after 3-4 weeks of regular running and proper low carb diet). 
 
 Practice breath control exercises while running so that you can run extra kilometers and do some light weight training too after your running. Morning walk is a must.
 
 
 : I said NO to RICE as it is a heavy source of carbs. I avoid Daal in dinner. I left eating fast food and oily foods. I live on Salad, 1-2 Roti in a day, green vegetables, fruits along with drinking honey in water when I wake up (a must). And if any time I felt hungry, I eat some fruit, especially apple.
 
 
  See it's not about how much weight you are able to lose, but how efficiently you maintain that weight. That is the key to healthy living. For this, one has to learn how to balance the intake and exhaustion of calories. Burn your extra calories. Avoid late dinners. Go for a walk after dinner. Get up early in the morning and do some Yoga. 
 
 How do I stay motivated? There are two ways I keep myself motivated:
 
 1. I never forget the bad memories associated with my excess weight. The sour experiences will help you spring back in action and help you achieve and maintain your  . Keep telling yourself why you started this. Believe me, you will get an instant boost.
 
 2. I keep on motivating myself with this line - "You have to lose Ankit!!" and it has worked for me so far.
 
 Lessons learnt from weight loss: Never engage in crash diets as it will make you nutrient deficient. You may be able to lose weight, but you will also lose essential nutrients. When you don't eat, body begins to burn proteins along with body fat for energy, which is harmful. 
 
 Weight loss is in fact an adventurous journey of changing yourself. And the feeling when you look back at yourself after losing weight, can only be experienced, not described. Love yourself every single day. Your body is just a clay and it's only you who can shape it.
 
 
 
 
