BENGALURU/MUMBAI: This won't be the first time  's co-founder & CEO   is changing his business model or pivoting like it's called in startup lexicon. Bahl and  , co-founders of online marketplace, have been dubbed masters of pivots in their ten-year-old entrepreneurial journey together, having traversed from running a physical couponing company to a daily deals site and then starting an online marketplace modelled on China's  .

 But with all of these models not bringing in the home run for Bahl, he is on to a new game plan after sale talks with   were officially called off on Monday.
 
 Snapdeal founders wrote an email to the company employees explaining how they plan to build its new avatar - Snapdeal 2.0. Bahl said Snapdeal is on track to clock Rs 150 crore in gross profit in the next one year and would not need to raise additional capital to reach full profitability .With cash in the bank from the sale of   to   for Rs 385 crore, the founders have been emboldened to run an independent outfit, which helped them scupper the merger with Flipkart.
 
 "We firmly believe in our new direction (Snapdeal 2.0), part of which is a laser focus on being a champion for all sellers in India, enabling any one to set up a store online in a few minutes and focusing on providing large selection of products at great prices to consumers. Secondly, we have made tremendous progress towards this new path over the last few months and are already profitable at a gross profit (net margin) level, with clear visibility to making upwards of Rs 150 crore in gross profit in the next 12 months," the founders wrote in an email to the staff which has been reviewed by TOI.
 
 While the fine print of the initiatives for Snapdeal 2.0 will be unveiled in details to company executives, sources said the Gurgaon-based marketplace was planning to trim its workforce once again.
 
 "As per the plan, this would see significant reduction in workforce across various levels in the company," said a person aware of the company's plans. Snapdeal, at present, has about 1,000-1,200 strong workforce despite all the layoffs that took place since the beginning of the year.
 
 The money from the sale of FreeCharge will help sustain Snapdeal's operations for a few months but the plans of cost cutting were laid out before closing the deal, another person said. Over the past six months, Snapdeal has also seen senior-level exits amid cash running out and uncertainty surrounding the company with the sale talk on in full swing. "Needless to say , we will need to keep a tight control on our costs and work towards becoming a hyper efficient culture delivering profitable growth, month-on-month," the founders cautioned in the e-mail.
 
 An email sent by TOI to a Snapdeal spokesperson did not elicit a response till the time of going to press.
 
 Over the last six months, Snapdeal has been focusing on categories which do not require high discounting and moving away from smartphones and other electronics to avoid competing with the might of   and Flipkart. The strategy has been to focus on fashion and lifestyle categories.
 
 "Success is never final, failure is rarely fatal; it is the courage to continue that counts.Let's work together to make Snapdeal 2.0 a super success," the founders said as they signed off the mail.
 
