PUNE: Experts feel the decision to come up with a new terminal at   has come too late.

  expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar told TOI on Monday that the decision should have been taken much earlier. “Mid-last year, defence minister   stated that the authorities ( ) should immediately start planning the expansion of the Lohegaon airport after 15.84 acres of   was approved for it on lease. If there are talks now about a new terminal building as a part of the expansion plan, it seems a bit too late because the AAI will have to pull up its socks and work faster. In the case of the existing Pune airport, there has been a lack of controlled growth. It is high time that the authorities rectifi ed it,“ said Vandekar.
 
 Authorities at the airport stressed that the work on the new terminal building would start by May this year. The facility should be ready by 2019.More than Rs400 crore would be pumped in for it.
 
 “There is a huge difference between a facility being ready and operations starting in aviation. If the AA I is expecting the new terminal to be ready by 2019, it virtually gives a year or may be less for its civil use, considering the new Pune airport at Purandar will be ready for operations by 2020. While the expansion at the Lohegaon airport is necessary and important, things should have sped up. The new terminal should be ready at least by 2018 so that it is brought into civil use for at least two years,“ he said.
 
 He said the authorities had already requested the air force to provide them with the land for the expansion.
 
 “There has been a sevenmonth delay . Given the urgency shown by the Union government, the authorities should have been well prepared to execute the plans with immediate effect and a task force should have been formed. The authorities have been asking for the land from the air force for long. Also, in a bid to scale down costs in view of the new airport, the terminal can be constructed in such a way so that it can be dismantled. A dual airport theory for Pune doesn't make much sense at this moment. It has to be seen whether the AAI has floated a tender for the project or not. If it hasn't, the delay is expected to be even more,“ Vandekar said.
 
 The airport director, Ajay Kumar, said, “The process to float the tender for the appointment of the consultant for the construction of the new building is in process.“
 
 According to the figures, the Lohegaon airport saw a growth of 23 per cent last year.In earlier talks, Kumar has said some new flights were set to take off from the airport by January 15. AirAsia started its second flight from Bengaluru to Pune and back in December.The new AirAsia flight is the 138th scheduled movement from Pune and the number is set to rise to 142 after the introduction of new flights to Delhi and Chandigarh this year.
 
