AHMEDABAD: A   erupted at Suzuki Motor Corporation’s (SMC) manufacturing facility at  , some 80 km from Ahmedabad, as more than 1,500 youths, driven by a   about  , thronged the Japanese automobile giant’s plant on Wednesday morning hoping to get jobs. 

  A big ruckus ensued after the job seekers were not allowed to enter the premises, and they found out that no such recruitment drive was going on .
 
 As the situation worsened, police were called in to tackle the restless unemployed youths amid reports of stone pelting. The situation was controlled by convincing the job seekers that there had been some foul play on social media.
 
 “We understand that it was due to a fake message in social media. The company, too, is surprised by the development,” said Suzuki Motor Gujarat, a subsidiary of SMC, in a statement.
 
 “As the misleading message went viral, around 1,000-1,500 youths gathered at the plant by 10.30 am. The police were called in as those queued up at the plant created a ruckus. The situation was handled with the help of the company officials and no force was used to control the youths,” confirmed a senior police officer.
 
 “A woman police sub-inspector sustained minor injuries during the commotion. A case under IT Act has been registered against unknown persons for spreading a false social message,” the officer added.
 
 The fake message in circulation misled people by stating that the company was hiring electricians, welders, wiremen, CNC/VMC operators passed out from ITIs and pegged the salary at Rs 16,900 per month.
 
 “I went there for an electrician’s job after I received the message. Upon reaching there, I learned that there was no such recruitment going on. I left the spot as the situation started aggravating,” said Sanjay Thakor, a resident of Ahmedabad.
 
 “Many from our village were supposed to go for the recruitment. However, when we came to know about the truth, youths in our village were told not to visit the plant,” said Hansalpur village sarpanch Ajmal Thakor. Sources said it was for the third time such misleading messages had surfaced.
 
 The Hansalpur passenger car facility near Mehsana is set to go on stream in February and about 10,000 cars are expected to be produced at the plant during the current financial year. 
 
 
