
The Telangana Prohibition and Excise department sending notices to at least 15 Tollywood celebs, asking them to appear for questioning in connection with the July 4 drug racket bust, seems to have opened a Pandora’s box. 
 While the department’s enforcement wing has clarified that the notices have been issued based on investigation of drug peddlers, names of several A-listers, including two actresses, have tumbled out. Rumour mills appeared to be having a field day, theorising about the culpability of each celeb. The list includes director  , actress  , baddie  , actors  ,  , Tarun, Tanish and Nandu, producer Srinivasa Rao, dancer Mumaith Khan, cameraman Shyam K Naidu and art director Chinna.
 
 
 Social media, too, has gone on an overdrive and guessing games are being played on WhatsApp, where even Bãhubali stars Prabhas’ and Rana’s names have been thrown up. The cops, however, claim they have nothing to do with the names being circulated. “The investigation is on. Officially, we haven’t given out any names. And it’s not in our interest to malign any individual without proof.” said Akun Sabharwal. 
 "I had recently collaborated with a local event management guy, who was caught in the drug bust. I knew he might have my number on his phone and that will land me in trouble," says, Navdeep
 Till date, we have arrested 13 peddlers in connection with the drug bust and the Tollywood personalities have been called for questioning on the basis of statements given by those peddlers during interrogation,” said Akun Sabharwal, director of Prohibition and Excise department’s enforcement wing. 
 
 
 
 
 Those who have been ‘named’ say they are living a nightmare, no less. Adding to their woes is the fact that the Movie Artistes’ Association (MAA) held a press conference in the city just three days ago where producers seemed to conveniently put the blame on “younger actors” of the industry although it is an open secret that drug use is not restricted to a specific section of Tollywood. 
 Subbaraju, who is among the ‘named’ celebs, says, “I honestly have no clue about what’s happening. At this juncture, even if I say something, it would go against me. I have been in the industry for long. Is someone doing this 
 intentionally? Who can you blame? If I do that [point fingers at others], would I not be guilty of the same mistake that has happened now? When I have done no wrong, I know my reputation will clear me of any allegation.”
 Navdeep has also got a notice, but denies any link to the drug mafia. “I had recently collaborated with a local event management executive for a do, and he was caught in the bust near CM’s camp office. I knew he might have my number on his phone and that will get me in trouble. But I am clear in this case and as a responsible citizen, I will clarify everything when I am called for interrogation.”
 
 
 However, there are also reports that the pub where Navdeep has a major stake is among the city’s drug hubs. “All that is rubbish and this is not the first time that a popular pub has been targeted. My heart sinks when I read reports about 14-15-year-olds being caught for drug use. Do you think we can even do that and make money by selling drugs? We don’t come from such a family background. The pub was set up to add to the city’s nightlife, not for any other purpose,” he insists.
 
 
 Mumaith scoffs at the news of notice as he says, “As per several reports in the past, I have been married and divorced six times. The next thing I might hear is that I am having kids (laughs). For a while, I have been battling severe health issues and am currently in Mumbai for treatment. Drugs don’t figure in my scheme of things; medication already makes me feel weak,” she says, adding, “I stay with my parents in Hyderabad, I don’t party or have many friends. When and how will I do drugs? And if a suspect has my number on his phone, that’s not my fault, right?”
 Tanish, on the other hand, denies receiving any notice. “Why is my name being bandied about? My father passed away last year and we are still trying to come to terms with it. Being the eldest son, I have certain responsibilities and have cut down on my socialising as well. I am also getting back on track career-wise and this has come as an absolute shocker. My family has been receiving calls since morning; imagine the trauma they must be going through. If I have done any wrong, an explanation can be expected of me. But when I have not received any notice, why should my name be tarnished this way? To date, I have not been part of any controversy,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
