Title problems are aplenty in Sandalwood. The latest to land in the midst of one such controversy is a Shivarajkumar-starrer, which has been rechristened — from Leader to Mass Leader. This problem came to fore on Tuesday when filmmaker AMR   took to his social media page to write that he has had the title Leader for years and has also worked on a lot of pre-production work for the same film. The Cyanide filmmaker further stated, “Tarun Pictures is using our title ‘LEADER’ without my consent. They are using this title even without registering it the Film Chamber. Just yesterday (20th March 2017) I have received a letter from KFCC stating that they have advised and sent a letter to   banner not to use the title anymore.After fighting for 6 months on this issue, we have got justice I think. I thank one and all who have helped me in this. (sic)”
When we contacted filmmaker  , who is currently in   for the film’s song shoot, he said, “When we had first announced the film titled Leader with   around two years back, the only problem we encountered then was a Sudeep-starrer that was announced with the same name. I spoke to the producer   and we sorted it out. Another script writer   had registered a title as Mass Leader, which he agreed to give it to us. This year, when we wanted to place newspaper ads in January (around  ), we contacted Raghunath again asking if there was no issues with the use of the title Leader and he didn’t object. But, a day after our ad, filmmaker   contacted us saying that he has had the title for years. Since we were also not too convinced with just Leader, we decided to use Mass Leader as the title and we have the rights for the same.”
 Interestingly, Ramesh has also written in his post on social media, “I hope the banner Tarun Pictures do not prefix or suffix anything to our title ‘LEADER’ and make it their own. We have never ever used prefixes or suffixes to the titles till now in our film industry, if they misuse this it will be bad preceding. (sic)”
 Whether this name change will solve the issue or will this title war continue, is yet to be seen.
 
