CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued a notice to the principal secretary of urban local bodies department, the state election commission and the local authorities on a plea against the re-fixation of boundaries of wards for the elections to be conducted for the   (GMC).

 The matter reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by  , a resident of Tigra village of Gurgaon district, and others villagers of adjoining areas. Petitioners have sought directions to set aside the September 2, 2016, and January 13, 2017, notifications through which the Haryana government had fixed the number of seats/wards and demarcated boundaries of wards for the MC polls.
 
 Petitioners informed the HC that an earlier notification, issued on February 4, 2016, reduced the number of wards from 35 to 32. The number of wards was fixed on account of the Census figures showing a total population of 9,09,392 as per the 2011 Census as against a total population of 11,53,734 in 2009. However, on January 13, 2017, one more notification was issued proposing a fresh demarcation of the 35 wards.
 
 Terming the new notification as arbitrary, the petitioners has argued that the government had completely ignored all settled norms and principles in re-fixing the seats/wards, especially the previous figures which are in total contradiction to the figures now being projected to justify the fixation of seats.
 
 It was also stated that the ad hoc body for carrying out the delimitation work was constituted on the same day when the impugned notification had been issued, clearly showing that the constitution of the committee was just an eyewash and the matter of re-fixing of the wards had already been decided upon. All members of the committee were members of the incumbent BJP and included the sitting   and three others ex-councillors from the party, petitioners added.
 
 “Remapping of the wards would result in a completely haphazard geographical area, since the purpose of demarcating wards is to offer the residents convenience, compactness and availability of their local councillor for the redressal of their grievance rather than spread the wards in a manner which makes the very purpose of demarcation of wards illusory,” the petition read.
 
 
