HYDERABAD: Barely a month ago, the residents of Devi Nagar Colony were preening at being anointed one of the best colonies in the north zone by the   (GHMC).

 But today, the colony has been stripped of its cleanliness tag, courtesy the   ( ) that has been frothing and foaming since June end and greeting the residents with an acrid stench and wisps of toxic white froth.
 
 The once proud residents are now a crestfallen lot.   members of the   rue that their efforts in sprucing up their home into one of the cleanest in the city have literally gone down the drain thanks to the toxic lake abutting their colony.
 
 “In June, the GHMC gave us a title saying that we were one of the best colonies in the north zone. Now, the foam from the lake is polluting our colony, flying onto the streets and distracting drivers. Ironically, we were awarded for being one of the cleanest colonies in the area. Now, the entire area is riddled with foam and a rancid smell,“ said  , president, Devi Nagar Welfare Association.
 
 In a move that has left the residents stumped, the only solution that civic officials could come up with to tackle the menace ­ hoist a tarpaulin sheet supported by two iron rods along weir where it abuts the colony.
 
 Predictably, the residents aren't amused. “We could've done this ourselves. Is this how the government chooses to reward us for keeping our colony and surroundings clean?
 
 Whenever we ask the pollution control board, they ask us to call the civic authorities and vice versa. Both of them have left us helpless in this matter,“ claims D Chandramouli, a resident of the colony.
 
 The association members claimed that its residents had actively partici pated in campaigns to segregate wet and dry waste.
 
 The residents had also collected funds and donations from each and every house and constructed a Ram temple, which is now in doldrums because of the rising levels of pollution the lake is witnessing.
 
 “The froth from the lake is now flying into the temple and we are struggling to keep it clean. While the stench has put people off from entering the colony, the flying foam is just making matters worse,“ he added.
 
