Nagpur: Around 300 participants comprising children, teenagers and adults attended a motivational workshop ‘The Dreamers Summit’ organized by Nagpur based NGO, ‘Renovatio’ at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines, on Saturday. The two-day workshop aimed at providing perspective to the participants and guiding them in their pursuit of happiness.

 The workshop consisted of an interactive session and a story sharing session wherein 11 speakers from different fields of expertise spoke, inspiring the audience to realize their potential.
 
 Ankita Lahoti, one of the speakers and a volunteer for the event said, “Our organization aims to inspire and motivate youngsters to leave behind their inhibitions and focus on their priorities. Most of the people here are hardworking people who know the techniques to earn, we assist them in understanding their dreams and find happiness in life through a little faith and hope.”
 
 Nakul Agrawal, founder of Renovatio, took the first interactive session. He spoke about the importance of acknowledging one’s metaphorical personality and comprehending one’s existence as an individual.
 
 Starting the session with meditation, Agrawal said, “A calm mind is the source of all good things in life. The soul too requires some food. Like our physical body, which receives it in the form of energy, meditation catalyses energy, enabling it to feed good stuff to the soul.”
 
 Agrawal conducted some activities aimed at ‘discovering the inner self’ and which tried to answer the question ‘Who am I?’. “One explores the world but fails to take a peek inside the heart. All the greatest legends are quoted saying that true happiness can only be found within one’s own self,” he said. 
 
 The other speakers who shared their personal stories, discussing their struggles and journey were wedding planner Ankita Lahoti, chef Shruti Jain, Vatsal Kothari, founder of Writer Desk, Abhishek Thaware, first teeth archer of India, dietitian Bhupendra Goud, teacher Kunal Mandhania, Lizzie Bailey Singh, an Australian born yoga teacher, Bhanik Mehta, brand chief of Thinking Birds, food photographer Hardika Thakkar, cinematographer Ashish Misar, and motivational speaker Vinay Chawla.
 
 The speakers spoke about their struggles and how they overcame it. They highlighted the importance of following one’s passion and working hard to make a mark in the society.
 
 Abhinav Tiwari, one of the participants of the workshop said, “Though the session didn’t tell me something out of the world, it helped me appreciate my life and the people who work hard for me every day.”
 
 Another participant Malvika Fulwani added, “With the current scenario in the world, the workshop is a guiding path and one can learn various ways for attaining joy in life.” 
 
 
