CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s cash cow,   or  , has incurred a loss of Rs 125.64 crore in 2015-16 due to higher interest payments and salaries. The income from sale of liquor was not commensurate with interest and salary payments, says a  .

 While in 2014-15, Tasmac made a profit of Rs 79.13, the next year its balance sheet flattered to deceive. Though the liquor agency is the main revenue source for the government in the form of excise and value added tax, it had to incur losses as the interest cost alone increased by nearly 660%.
 
 “In that financial year, the corporation had to borrow from banks as we needed working capital and the cash flow was poor as the government converted the corporation profit into tax,” said a senior Tasmac official.
 
 The interest payments which was Rs 37.32 crore in 2014-15 increased to Rs 283.94 crore. “The government did not want to show profit in the Tasmac accounts as the public may think we were minting money by selling liquor and therefore converted the profit as tax. But on the flip side, this resulted in poor cash flow,” said the official.
 
 Tasmac had to borrow from banks to meet the payments to distilleries and breweries. “Even though we had some grace time to pay to the suppliers, still we could not manage with the money received from sales as a major portion went to the government coffers in the form of tax and excise,” he said.
 
 The government decision to deny profits to the corporation resulted in Tasmac employees not getting bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, the official said.
 
 Salaries and wages also increased from Rs 235.46 crore to Rs 264.94 crore. “The government announced minor salary hikes for Tasmac employees and also this year a number of new shops were opened including the elite shops. Thus the salaries and wages increased,” the official said.
 
 The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said Tasmac had not integrated its activities at various levels through computerisation even after 15 years and it was time it adopted an IT policy. These deficiencies were pointed out in 2008-09, CAG said. “Further, the present levels of computerisation lacked adequate controls (and) validation checks, resulting in the data generated becoming unreliable,” the   said.
 
 
