JAIPUR:   has decided to   into   for providing better facilities to students. 

 The rule says that pre-schools which are at the distance of 500 metre from any government school should be merged into that school. The move is being taken to improve the poor learning outcomes—reading letters and alphabets being recorded by students in primary classes. 
 
 State has 61,000 pre-schools which has an enrolment of 15 lakh students in the age group of 3-6 years. In the first phase, around 13,000   will be merged with schools at every gram panchayat.
 
 “The first phase will be completed in a month. According to the direction, these pre-schools will get separate room with having learning material along with toys for the children,” said a government officer. 
 
 Rajasthan has a very poor system of pre-school resulting in poor learning outcomes and drop outs. Most of the pre-schools are being run in the small rented rooms located in the unhygienic area. The role of pre-schools is not restricted to teach children. Other than teaching students, every   centre has to perform duties—health check-up of pregnant and supplementary nutrition of pregnant and lactating women.
 
 The reason state is overhauling the Anganwadi centres are that state has worst percentage of students out of preschool. The ASER report says that 37.3% children in the age group of 3 years were not in any pre-school. Similarly, in the age group of 4 years, figures say that 51.2% students never enrolled in a pre-school. It will be a challenge for the state to train its 60,000 Aanganwadi workers to deliver integrated services. 
 
 TOI has learnt that every Anganwadi will be given a research kit which includes teaching learning material. No children would be subjected to admission test and duration of program or classroom period should not last more than 3-4 hours," read initial document. In order to make attractive, state is likely to introduce toys and objects. State which is coming up with a pre-school policy says that the ideal child ratio has to be 1:20. “The mandatory of the use of mother tongue as primary language is kept to enhance the learning experience of students. The early childhood age defined is first six years and early childhood education year is from 3 to 6 years of age.
 
