VADODARA: While most women her age are either married and planning kids or planning to get married, this 28-year-old is a example of standing up for oneself and following the dreams.

 Ishika Thite began training for self-defence since the age of four. “My father,  , was my first coach and inspiration. He is a martial artist himself and he began training me in Judo and Karate. Gradually, I fell in love with it,” she said.
 
 Thite was winning medals for her performances and training since school. She said, “I took a sabbatical from training for a while in college so that I could focus on my studies.” After her post-graduation from  , she took up her training again. Her father said that she faced a few problems while she was working. “She was a good worker, but her passion lay with Karate. She had even started training for mixed-martial-arts (MMA) fighting, jujitsu as well as kick-boxing. It was difficult for her to work and travel to tournaments on a regular basis at the same time.” By 2015, she had won silver and   in various national and state-level championships.
 
 In 2015, she quit her job as an English teacher and started her own self-defense classes. “The Dojo” started as a small class in Alkapuri. In a few months, Thite was training a range of people from kids to adults, both men and women. “My father began to help me with the training. With his help, I started a second branch of my class in   area of the city,” said Thite.
 
 Meanwhile, she kept her winning streak alive. She recently struck gold at the state-level kick-boxing tournament held on February 26 in Ahmedabad. She will now represent the state in the national tourney to be held a few months later.
 
 “In the last few year, I have often thought of giving back what I have learned. The Dojo was one way of doing that but I wanted more women to be involved and aware of their potential,” said Thite. To that effect she has started conducting self-defense workshops in various NGOs, colleges, corporate offices as well as girls’ hostels. “We also run self-defense awareness seminars in such places,” she added. Her work in the field of self-defense has taken her to Goa as well. For her contribution to the field of Martial Arts, she was recognized and awarded by the   Organization for Sports Development and Peace in December last year.
 
