PUNE: Communities in local areas can get better civic amenities when corporators and voters meet at area sabhas to discuss development works. 

 The elected member can inform his voters about civic funds for amenities while voters can inform the corporator about water supply, street lights, public toilets and other amenities they need a form of grassroots participation in governance.
 
 Citizens in Nagpur Chawl in Yerawada owe much to such an area sabha for a better quality of life. They will soon have 24x7 metered water supply when the project remains on paper for the rest of the city. 
 
 The area has CCTV cameras and special funding for redevelopment of slums, all benefits of participatory democracy and awareness about how an area sabha can work to their advantage. It could be a similar experience for the rest of the city, but citizens are hardly aware of how the area sabha works.
 
 An area sabha is a general assembly of voters in a particular locality which has the power to take decisions about civic amenities in their area. It is a yardstick to ensure decentralized democratic system.
 
 As per the 74th constitutional amendment, the area sabha bill or the model Nagar Raj bill, elected representatives have to conduct area sabhas in their wards. They have to consult voters about development and infrastructural works. Area sabhas can approve resolutions and the civic body has to give consent and execute the citizens’ charter. 
 
 “A majority of development works including the 24x7 water, CCTV, redevelopment of houses, road network became possible because of citizens participation in area sabhas. We have regularly conducted area sabhas and have involved civic administration, government officials and police to resolve issued that bothered people,”   (A) corporator Siddharth Dhende said. He represents Nagpur Chawl.
 
 His keenness on area sabhas is evident and it comes from his involvement in the people’s movement led by   and   who initiated and insisted on the Area Sabha Act. 
 
 “It becomes easier for a corporator to plan the development of a ward as citizens decide the agenda and follow it up. Generally, corporators avoid conducting area sabhas as they don’t want to be questioned,” Dhende added. 
 
 Most corporators have not bothered to hold area sabhas in the last five years. “You will hardly find many corporators taking up this exercise. Many corporators are not even aware of what an area sabha is. Those who are aware don’t want to be accountable or involve people in the decision-making. We pursued this issue with the government and civic administration but there was no result. Only people can address this issue by becoming aware of their rights,” activist Vijay Kumbhar said. 
 
 Homemaker Supriya Pawar said citizens are in the dark about area sabhas and corporators have not bothered to introduce the concept to voters. “As citizens, we have every right to prioritize development and infrastructural works in our locality. A corporator has no exclusive rights to plan and execute projects. He has to give heed to what his voters to say. It is time citizens understand the area sabha concept. We must demand that the new corporators conduct area sabhas after they are elected,” she added. Pawar was willing to learn and share information about area sabhas with others.
 
 Minal Kulkarni, a professional, insisted that citizens must be aware of the provisions which give them the right to participate in decision-making. “We have the right to know what happens to our taxes. Instead of a handful of people deciding on development, we must be active and decide the course of development. We can hope for a better city only if we are aware of our rights,” she said. She will gather information about area sabhas and spread the word.
 
