JAIPUR: The   (JDA) continued its drive to widen road between   up to160 feet for city’s first  . 

 On Thursday, the civic body demolished nearly 100 shops and structures. As majority of structures were two-storeyed, the JDA team remained engaged in cutting these buildings with machines in order to avoid damage to adjoining buildings. The deployment of police was also decreased as JDA was not expecting massive protest from shopkeepers. 
 
 On the second day, traffic flow improved a little on roads as JDA allowed vehicular movement till Triveni flyover from Gujjar ki Thadi end. Traffic congestion on Gopalpura flyover was also reduced after JDA opened the slip lanes on Thursday. 
 
 After removing the debris, the JDA started the construction of road on Thursday. However, only small stretch was covered as removing huge amount of debris in one day remained herculean task for JDA.
 
 It was informed, JDA has proposed to construct city’s first 12-lane road between this 9-km stretch after chief minister Vasundhara Raje laid the foundation stone. The project cost is Rs 80 crore and JDA has almost spent Rs 50 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, various market associations in the city have started gathering together demanding compensation of these 477 shopkeepers whose shops are demolished before the festival season. The associations assured affected shopkeepers to gear up the protest. Shopkeepers claimed, majority of shops demolished are more than 25 years old. As per the rule, no person can be displaced without compensation or rehabilitation, if they have possession for more than ten years. 
 
 The Ruling BJP may also lose support of shopkeepers in next state assembly for carrying biggest anti-encroachment drive in the city. Residents demanded that width of the road should have been decreased in public interest as it has affected the employment of several residents. They also pointed, employment of 6,000 people was snatched before biggest Hindu festival of Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali. 
 
 Official informed, in two days, JDA has razed 50% of the shops hampering the widening project. The civic body has to remove 477 structures falling on the route. 
 
 
