NEW DELHI: India took a big step towards an operational   (BMD) system by testing a high-altitude   to destroy an incoming ballistic missile over the   on Saturday morning.

 “Today our scientists have made a missile that can destroy an enemy missile high in the sky. Only four to five countries in the world have done this,” said PM   at an election rally in Badaun.
 
 He even took a dig at his political opponents, holding that they would have to travel “very high” if they wanted proof of the successful test.
 
 The   ( ) was itself gung-ho about its long-delayed BMD system, claiming it would now be possible to deploy the two-layered missile shield to protect a city or strategic installation in two years.
 
 But it had earlier also promised that New Delhi would get the missile shield, capable of tackling missiles with a 2,000km strike range, by 2014 at the latest. Scientists, however, say they are confident of achieving the target this time.
 
 The “exo-atmospheric” (outside the earth’s atmosphere) interceptor missile tested on Saturday, also called the PDV ( ), after all, directly hit the target missile at an altitude of 97km. The test began at 7.45am with the two-stage target missile, mimicking an enemy ballistic missile, being launched from a ship in the Bay of Bengal.
 
 In the fully-automated operation, with long-range radars continuously tracking the target and feeding data about its trajectory to the mission computers, the interceptor missile was then fired from the   (Wheeler Island), off Odisha coast, around 200km away.
 
 “It was a direct hit. Many advanced technologies developed indigenously paved the way for the successful interception. It’s a remarkable achievement for the country,” said the defence minister’s scientific adviser Dr G Satheesh Reddy.
 
 The defence ministry added: “India has crossed an important milestone in building its overall capability towards enhanced security against incoming ballistic missile threats. It has entered an exclusive club of four nations (US, Russia, China and Israel) by developing capabilities to secure its skies and cities against hostile threats.” BMD systems, of course, are highly complex to develop and deploy.
 
 DRDO’s experimental two-tier system is designed to track and destroy ballistic missiles both inside (endo) and outside (exo) the earth's atmosphere.
 
 A third layer, in turn, is planned to tackle lowflying cruise missiles, artillery projectiles and rockets in line with the overall aim to achieve “near 100% kill or interception probability’’.
 
