JAIPUR: It’s peek time for students of   to decide their further course. With changing times, students are diverting from traditional courses and joining different courses.   are on an upward curve lately.

 While speaking to  , a counsellor says, “Students from all streams don’t want to take up traditional courses like CA, CS or B.Com. Many new courses have come up which have better content and provides exciting opportunities.   instead of opting for B.com or B.com honours are opting for BBA and courses in finance, accounting and international business.”
 
 “Students are trying for IIM, Indore as it provides five year integrated course for BBA and MBA. Apart from IIM Indore, students are filing up application forms for Nirma University, Delhi University, Faculty of Management, Jai Hind, SNDT and NM college.”
 
 For post-graduation, students are opting for courses in risk management, chartered financial analyst, masters in international business and masters of finance and control.
 
 Economics honours is hot topic amongst arts students and for science students, instead of engineering and medical, biotechnology and resource oriented courses are playing on their minds. Students with science and maths combination are looking for computer courses or degree in automobile, robotics and medical engineering. Mechanical, civil and electronics has become old school for students.
 
 Students who are interested in making a career in teaching are opting for traditional courses like BA, B.ed. Since hotel management, tourism and hospitality industry are again on the cards. To make a career in these fields, students are opting for vocational courses.
 
 Significant degree of change in subject choices can also be seen at post-graduation level. Degree in forest and wildlife, public administration services, quantitative economics and Masters of Business Economics are attracting a huge flock of people.
 
 Trend of gaining formal education has also started. When asked about the same to Deepak Saxena, he says, “UK and Australia are top management countries. Singapore too has become an education hub with more and more Indian students enrolling at National University of Singapore. Apart from management, Australia has seen a huge number of students for tourism as well as civil aviation industry.”
 
