MUMBAI: In an order that comes as a warning to litigants, the   (HC) dismissed a public interest litigation ( ) with exemplary costs of Rs 5 lakh after holding that it cannot be used to settle personal scores.

 “A public interest petition cannot be a camouflage to foster  . Such petitions are to be thrown out,'' said a bench headed by Chief Justice Manjula Chellur, holding that the petitioner had come to court with unclean hands and had suppressed facts.“There must be real and genuine public interest involved in the litigation.Public interest cannot be invoked by a person to further his personal causes or satisfy his personal grudge and enmity,'' it added while imposing the costs on a litigant, Manoj Kapadia, who had sought action against Achyut Hange, commissioner of Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation, for allegedly illegally granting development rights to one builder in 2015.
 
 But it emerged in the hearing that the rights were granted to   pursuant to court orders and the HC held that the municipal chief and the corporation had acted legally and that the PIL was “misconceived.“
 
 Kapadia, a Bhayandar resident, claimed to espouse public interest alleging that the transferable development rights (TDR) granted to Ravi builders of 10,000 sq metre to construct a public road had caused “huge loss to the exchequer of Rs 14 crore“.
 
 Advocate  , representing Kapadia, said he complained about the TDR to the civic chief, alleging that he ought to have acted on “proposed“ Development Control Regulation and not existing rules. But the civic chief justified its legality, denied any financial loss to the exchequer and said residents benefited by the road that the builders constructed. Kapadia filed the PIL, seeking action against the civic chief and to quash the TDR.
 
 But Rajiv Narula, counsel for the builders, said that Kapadia suppressed that he was dealing in real estate and filed the PIL with “ulterior motives“. He also said that said that under the Development Plan, parts of the builder's land was reserved for a road which he built for the civic body as a public “amenity“.
 
 The HC, after analyzing the law and submissions, found that there was “no embargo on the civic body not to proceed to apply the DCR in vogue for grant of TDR“ and thus, finding no merit in the PIL, said, “It is well settled that courts of justice should not be allowed to be polluted by unscrupulous litigants...“
 
 The HC said, “Before parting, we would be failing in our duty if we overlook the objection raised by the builder that the present petition is not a bona fide petition in public interest.“ It observed that Kapadia appears to be a person undertaking development activities in Mira-Bhayandar. It said, “...only a person who is operating in the same field and having a considerable expertise can raise such issue raised in the petition.'' The HC observed that the Supreme Court earlier held that courts should be `ruthless'' while dealing with “imposters and busybodies or meddlesome interlopers impersonating as public-spirited holy men'' who “masquerade as crusaders of justice“.
 
