NEW DELHI: Braving the pressure from several quarters, the BJP managed to release its second and final list of 100 candidates for the   on Monday giving priority to women, just a few hours before the closing of nominations. 

 The list shows commitment of the party towards women empowerment, said a senior party leader. 
 
 The prominent faces who have been given ticket include Poonam Parasar Jha, Delhi BJP Mahila Morcha president and wife of former MLA Anil Jha. She will contest on Mubarakpur Dabas ward in North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). 
 
 The BJP has fielded six Muslim candidates in the MCD polls. The final list named Rubina as party candidate from Quraish Nagar in NDMC and Jamal Haidar from Abul Fazal Enclave in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). 
 
 The final list included names of 34 candidates in NDMC, 40 in SDMC, and 26 in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). 
 
 The party had yesterday announced its first list of 160 candidates. There are a total of 272 wards in the three municipal corporations in the city, including 104 each in South and North Delhi municipal corporations and 64 in the East Delhi municipal corporation. 
 
 Party sources said that the leadership was under "tremendous pressure" from several quarters including sitting MPs, former legislators and ex-councillors who had been "lobbying hard" with national leaders and the RSS for tickets. 
 
 The party had earlier decided not to field outgoing councillors this time to ward off anti-incumbency. 
 
 The BJP has given five tickets to its ally Akali Dal which will contest in Pratap Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Kalkaji, GTB Nagar and Rajendra Nagar on 'Lotus' symbol of the BJP. 
 
 Earlier, the Paharganj seat in NDMC was given to Lok Jan Shakti Party but later the party announced its own candidate, Babita Bharija, from there. 
 
 The final list also included names of some candidates who are known to be close to top leaders in the party, the party sources said. 
 
 Raj Kumar Ballan, stated to be close to Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari, has been given ticket from Brahmpuri in EDMC, while Jai Prakash JP, close to Union minister Vijay Goel, has got ticket from Sadar Bazar in NDMC. 
 
 Former army officer Colonel Oberoi will contest from Rajouri Garden ward. 
 
 The party has also fielded Delhi BJP vice presidents Shikha Rai and Kamljeet Sehrawat in MCD polls. 
 
 Rai and Sehrawat had previously contested assembly elections on party ticket. 
 
 Filing of nominations for the April 23 election will end at 6pm on Monday. 
 
