Ludhiana : Punjab Agricultural Management & Extension Training Institute (PAMETI) organised a five-day training programme on Project Management and Entrepreneurship Development from September 11 and September 15 which was attended by 27 participants from state agriculture and allied departments. 

 Dr Harmeet Kaur, Deputy Director (Business Management) while explaining the objective of the programme emphasised that entrepreneurial activity plays a major role in socio-economic development of the farming community. Entrepreneurship Development in agriculture appears to be the best possible alternative to generate income and employment avenues for the population in rural areas. The issue of educated unemployment in rural areas and increase in farm income needs much concentration by the extension functionaries working in the field of agriculture and allied sectors. Extension functionaries should encourage unemployed rural youth to attempt towards entrepreneurship development. 
 
 Dr H S Dhaliwal, Director PAMETI in the inauguration session said that currently, the farmer now is not only restricted to farm and domestic market, but he also has the opportunity to reach global markets as an agri-business entrepreneur. So, there is a need to educate farmers to establish their own agri-enterprises and get more income.
 
 Various resource persons from PAU, NABARD and MSME interacted with the participants on the various topics related to project management and entrepreneurship. To make the training more practical, an exposure visit was also conducted on the farms of S Sukhwinder Singh Grewal and S. Jaswant singh Tiwana, Doraha, Ludhiana. Both are first generation entrepreneurs who started from scratch and have established their name in fields of piggery and honey enterprises respectively. 
 
 S Nirbhay Singh Khalsa, an agri-preneur from Bathinda who follows the concept of Road Side Display (RSD) to market his own vegetable nursery plants and other SHGs products, discussed his road to success. A practical exercise was undertaken by the trainees to present projects in various agricultural sectors that can be taken by farmers to earn better income.
 
 
