NEW DELHI: The   on Friday refused to revisit its 
  within 500 metres of   (NH) and state highways (SH) from April 1 and ruled that this would also bar hotels and restaurants on highways from serving liquor to guests.

 In its 
  that kept in mind the large number of deaths on highways due to drunken driving and the easy availability of alcohol, the SC had ordered that no liquor vend could operate within 500 metres of NHs and SHs.
 
 It had also said these vends could not be visible from highways and nor could hoardings be put up advertising their proximity to the highways.
 
 The only relaxation given by the SC was in terms of the distance, and that too for small municipal areas that have come up on both sides of NHs and SHs. But it said   in these small towns could operate 220 metres from the NHs and SHs only if the population of the settlement was 20,000 or less, a suggestion given by Karnataka additional advocate general Devadatta Kamat on Thursday.
 
 Nearly 75 liquor vendors across the country had petitioned the SC for relaxation on the ground that it would cause enormous revenue loss to states as well as hit their business, and cause difficulty for common people.
 
 But drowning the hopes of a relaxation in the March 31 deadline, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and L N Rao declared that the March 31 deadline won’t be deferred.
 
 In addition, the SC clarified that the ban on liquor vends would apply in equal rigour to hotels and restaurants situated within 500 metres of NHs and SHs and they would be barred from serving liquor to patrons.
 
 The court said it had passed the order banning liquor vends within 500 metres of highways on the assumption that the excise year was from April 1 to March 31, during which period licences for liquor vends are allotted through auction. It said licences in Telangana were given from October 1 to September 30 and in Andhra Pradesh it was from July 1 to June 30.
 
 The SC said in Telangana and AP, liquor vends with licences granted before December 15 last year would continue to operate on highways till September 30 and June 30, respectively. However, these two states will have to adhere to the 500-metre rule for liquor vends from the new excise year.
 
 The small hill states of Sikkim and Meghalaya, which had pleaded that 500 metres on both sides of NHs and SHs were not available because of topography, with hill on one side and gorge on the other, were exempted from the distance rule. However, a similar argument by Himachal Pradesh found part favour with the court, which said in HP, the 220-metre distance rule would apply for liquor vends on highways.
 
