 The decision of   (CBSE) to scrap seven “unpopular” academic and 34 vocational subjects for senior secondary classes from the 2017-18   has evoked mixed reaction from academics here.
 
  In a circular issued last Thursday, the board had asked schools to discontinue these subjects from the next academic session. However, students currently pursuing these subjects in Class XI shall continue in Class XII.
  
  Deputy chairman of  , said the school was planning to introduce cosmetics as vocational subject for class XI on students’ demand. “The board must have taken the decision after proper planning, but they should have taken the opinion of the students who want to make their career in especially in nursing and music. In our school, we have been teaching music to students as a vocational subject for past 15 years and many students are doing good in Mumbai as professional singers,” he said.
  
  “Vocational subjects help students score well in board exam. It brings out their creativity. Learning such subjects at school level strengthens the students’ base,” Arunodaya added.
  
  Shamsher Singh, principal of  , said some of the parents called him up to enquire about scrapping of these subjects. “Most of the students, especially girls, opt for music as optional subject,” he said.
  
  Some of the vocational subjects which have been scrapped include poultry, nutrition and physiology, dairy product technology, health centre management, air conditioning and refrigeration and child health nursing. These subjects were started by the board a couple of years ago to offer more career options to students.
  
  “Students don’t want to opt for these subjects as the vocational ones. They are more interested in major subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, accountancy, economics and business studies,” said Brother Satheesh K Don, principal of Loyola High School. “Because of this, we never started any of the discontinued academic and vocational subjects,” he added.
  
  Delhi Public School, Patna, introduced legal studies, human rights and gender studies, mass communication and entrepreneurship as academic subjects in 2016. However, human rights and gender studies have been discontinued by the board.
  
  “After legal studies, human rights and gender studies was the most popular subject among the students. These career-oriented subjects prepare students for the bigger challenges ahead. If the students have fundamental knowledge about these, it will help them in the long run,” said an official of Delhi Public School, Patna.
  
  Abha Choudhary, a teacher of Notre Dame Academy, said most of the vocational and academic subjects which have been scrapped by the board did not have enough material in their syllabuses. “It is even difficult to find good teachers for these subjects,” she added.
