Despite scoring high in the higher secondary examination, a Class XII student in Coimbatore recently committed suicide because her result fell short of her expectations by 12 marks. A Class X student in Chennai suffered a nervous breakdown before the final exams and pleaded his parents to shift him to another school, as he feared of being questioned by teachers for not scoring high. Parents of another student preparing for the 12th board exams had to rush him to a counsellor a night before an exam paper after the boy complained of blanking out. 

 The common factor among the three was that all of them were top performers in their  . Against popular belief that achievers seldom encounter  , experts say inability to adapt to changing circumstances, fear of failure and alienation and a constant need for perfection is today driving many   to slip into depression. 
 
 Recounting her son’s struggle with stress and depression, Sreeja S, the mother of the Class X student says, "He enjoyed going to school and was among the top three in his class for years. But in Class X, he started falling sick very often and was afraid of even writing exams." The boy performed well in the 12th board exams after he was moved to another school.
 
 It is a common misconception that high achievers don’t suffer from anxiety and depression. Chennai-based rehabilitation psychologist Dr Shalini Somesh says she has been counselling many students — many of them high performers — ever since the Class XII state board exams were declared last week. Some of them also wrote the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on May 7. "Their Class XI marks came down because they could not balance school, coaching schedule and their health," she says.
 
 Shalini describes depression in the phase — before students get admission into   — as more of situational depression than clinical. She, however, adds that there are many cases of "unidentified clinical depression, where children take the extreme step". Shalini says there is "performance anxiety in every child during the course of the study" as well as peer and family pressures — reasons which goad even high performers to join coaching classes "to be recognised as being capable."
 
 Psychologist Dr Nappinnai Seran, also a counsellor for the family court in Chennai, feels that over time, high performers find it difficult to sustain their achievements. Further, they do not pause to acknowledge their achievements. "Subconsciously, they keep raising the bar and set new targets. Thus, the gap between their last achievement and the next goal is always there," she says.
 
 Seran says the tendency to constantly identify one with achievements, set high standards and suffer from constant anxiety, is seen not only among students but also working professionals. 
 
 She says many of them are also unable to accept failure. "They don’t accept that everyone is vulnerable to failure. It reflects on their self-esteem and leads to depression."
 
 
