AGARTALA: Tripura DGP   on Wednesday said police have identified the people responsible for the murder of TV news channel reporter   and they will all be booked soon.

 “Three people involved with Shantanu’s murder have already been arrested and the court sent them to police remand after an identification parade,” DGP Shukla said. He dismissed all speculation regarding inconsistencies in the timeline of the killing and the detention of two accused in the case. Police have information that 10-12 people were involved in the journalist’s murder on September 20 at Mandai, the DGP said. However, Shukla added, police have been unable to trace Shantanu’s cellphone and requested people to cooperate with the police investigation.
 
 Deputy collector of Jirania Tridip Sarkar said the administration has decided to continue with the imposition of Section 144 of CrPC at Mandai till Thursday and it may be extended further, depending on the situation. Saying that the animosity between CPM and the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) — clashes between which   was covering after which he was killed — has taken a communal shape, he added.
 
 “The administration is trying to diffuse the tension. If people’s movement is not restricted during Durga Puja and something went wrong, we would be blamed,” the deputy collector said.
 
 Life in Mandai has not been easy since the incident. Half the markets are shut and the rest are selling items at much higher rates since connectivity with Agartala has not been restored yet. “Dry fish is not available. It is the most affordable item for us.   are selling for Rs 400 per kilo, potatoes are being sold at Rs 50 per kilo and onions at Rs 120 per kilo. What does a common man do?” 56-year-old Magaleswari Noatia, a resident of Mandai, said. 
 
 Another resident of Mandai, Laxmibati Debbarma, said nothing has been available in the local market apart from bamboo shoots and unripe bananas over the last week. Several businessmen in Jirania, who cater to the markets of Mandai, said police and the administration are responsible for the disruption.
 
 The handling of the situation, they said, has made matters worse.
 
 “Business has actually been disturbed since July, when IPFT staged a road and rail blockade. Movement did resume after a while, but after the murder, everything is back where it was, he added.
 
