Pratibha Jolly studied at   House, taught at the college and then became the principal of the college. She likes to click photographs of the college whenever she is walking around in the corridors. Pratibha describes her campus as a cinematographer’s delight and is proud of the Romeo-Juliet-era styled balconies, and arched corridors. Talking about the history of Miranda House, she tells us, "When Maurice Gwyer (DU's vice-chancellor from 1938 to 1950, and Chief Justice of India from 1937 to 1943) set up Miranda House, it was a dream-come-true for him. He felt for women's education. There were three reasons of choosing Miranda as the name of the college. It was because of Shakespeare’s Tempest and then his daughter's name was Miranda, too. Also, his favourite actress was Carmen Miranda from the good ol' days!"

  The college was recently ranked number one by the   under the National Institutional Ranking Framework and the principal is elated by the ranking. "We owe our success to the seven generations of Miranda, and we are proud of them. The rankings were announced just when we launched our year-long activities to celebrate seven decades of sustained excellence," she tells us.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 Icame to Delhi in 2015 and got admission at Miranda House. Initially, it wasn’t easy to adjust. I wouldn’t step outside the college because I didn’t know Hindi. I didn’t even know how to take the Metro or communicate with the rickshaw-pullers. But in these two years, I have learnt the language and can manage to speak some sentences in Hindi now. I can say, 'Bhaiya, 20 rupay le lo, aur chalo' to the rickshaw-pullers. But Miranda House has been great so far. The teachers, students and the faculty – they have always been very supportive. Earlier, I wouldn’t go out thinking that people might stare but now I don’t care. I don’t know whether I want to stay here after my graduation or not. We get to hear about the racial attacks more often now and after these incidents, you are forced to think if it’s safe to go out or not. These things can happen anywhere and we actually can’t change the way people think.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 Actor-director,  , who keeps visiting his alma mater Kirori Mal College, says, "I had taken admission in college to do Theatre (Hons). I always wanted to study in a college, which was in the campus. Kirori Mal College is a life in itself and the college has changed me completely. Jab hum college mein thay, college ka itna naam nahi tha, par ab wahan admission lena kitna difficult hai. Humare time pe toh ladkiyan admission bhi nahi leti thi kyunki KM ko pehelwano ka college kaha jata tha. But it is now one of the top colleges. I got admission here with 50%, but I don’t think that it is even possible to think about it now."
 
  
  
 
 He adds, "For the upcoming batch, I just want to say that KM changes your personality completely. I was so underconfident that couldn’t even speak properly. But the college not only developed my personality, but also made me more confident and a better human being. Whatever I am today is because of KM."
 
  
  Satish Kaushik (sitting) tweeted this picture with his college buddies 
 
 
 
 After Vivekananda College forbade 79 students to take exams due to low attendance, college students debate about whether it is the right call or not. While some say students should attend classes regularly, others find it a tad harsh.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
