Kolkata: The decision by all Indian carriers to ban Shiv Sena MP Ravindra Gaikwad for assaulting an Air India staffer has been hailed by a cross-section of employees at various airports, including Kolkata. They see in the decision a divine retribution for all the humiliation and abuse they have quietly suffered over the years at the hands of VIPs, hoping the tables would turn one day. 

 “VIPs have been given a long rope for far too long. Some of them behave attrociously with airline staff and get away. Had regular passengers behaved half as bad, they would have been turned away. It is good to see the Federation of Indian Airlines display some spine and act against the MP,” said the airport manager of a private airline at Kolkata airport. 
 
 In 2007, a Left MP from Bengal created a ruckus at Kolkata airport when he was denied boarding pass for reporting late for a flight to Mumbai. The MP, who has since lost the Parliamentary seat, threatened to get the young Kingfisher Airlines ground staffer dismissed for not bending the rule. The plucky airline employee, however, stuck to her stand, and the remaining 117 passengers on flight IT 512 who had reported on time didn’t get held up due to the errant MP.
 
 The next year, a Jharkhand MP who was also a Union minister of state, booked on a Kingfisher Airlines flight to Ranchi and went a step further after arriving late. When told that he could not board the aircraft, the MP threatened to keep the aircraft grounded in Ranchi if he was not accommodated in the flight. 
 
 Knowing the clout of the MP, the airline had complied, delaying the flight for 20 minutes. “There is very little one can do even when a Parliamentarian is in the wrong. For no one dares to take them on fearing a counter-complaint can lead to their dismissal. In 9.5 times out of 10, an MP’s word will be considered truth. Even the senior management will question why the employee couldn’t handle the situation better,” Kolkata airport Airlines Operators’ Committee chairman Sarvesh Gupta said.
 
 A former Team India cricketer is also infamous for fashionably reporting late. In his prime days, particularly when booked on Air Sahara, flights have been delayed to accommodate him, much to the chargin of fellow passengers. 
 
 Gupta says things are now changing with the advent of social media. “It is no longer your word against mine. Now, there is the possibility of a passenger video-recording a situation and posting it on Facebook or Twitter. The fear of being caught off guard is forcing many to behave themselves. Even police cannot look the other way now,” he said. 
 
 While there are many instances of VIPs throwing their weight, there are also the likes of Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee who arrives well in time. In fact, once caught in a traffic jam in 2009, Mamata got down from the car and began walking. She then hailed an autorickshaw to the airport, paying Rs 500 for the 1km ride.
 
 
