The temperature has risen and so have the spirits of the   junkies. With many   events being organised recently, it is quite evident that young travel enthusiasts are growing fond of seeking adventure under the stars. Indore Times takes a look at the trend and the do’s and don'ts, in case you're considering joining these night trekkers.

  
  
 
 Ask these young enthusiasts why and they have one answer - excitement. Shubhi Goyal, a 23-year-old graphic designer and travel enthusiast shares, “Walking with a torch through the forests and discovering the unusual locales near your city is definitely thrilling. But, the feeling of sitting beside a bonfire, being shrouded by the stars is so inviting that I keep going for such events. Especially for young working professionals, night trekking works as a stress buster and rejuvenates the soul. We cook, sing, dance, unwind, live and learn. Such events make you feel close to nature.”
 Solo traveller Pratha Tiwari, who prefers to go alone on such treks, says, “One gets to learn so much about wildlife on such trips. The rules are the same for everyone and jobs like cleaning, pitching the tents are shared, so you develop a sense of team spirit and also become a good judge of people.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Within a radius of 40 km from Indore, you will find great and safe options to go for night treks, say enthusiasts. Kabeer Shukla, founder of  , organised a night trek at Kalakund last week. Talking about other locations he says, “Bamniya Kund, Jidiya Khoh, Jogi Kund, Chidiya Bhadak, Jaam Gate and Kundiya Khoh are ideal places near Indore. While organising such events we need to keep in mind that a village should be close by and the locals should be willing to assist. We take proper permission from the forest department and visit the place to speak to the locals and checking for their cooperation. We normally include two trusted local residents to come along with us for help in case of any untoward incident or if we run into wild animals.” He further adds, “The parents of youngsters joining the treks are informed and made to sign a risk taking form before sending their kids. We also give a set of instructions to enthusiasts on how to maintain discipline by not shouting or playing loud music, as it disturbs the peace of the woods. We also instruct people about self-defence and give everyone a wooden stick to carry while trekking.”
  
  
  
 
 
 On other rules that people should follow, Rakesh Jain, who operates an adventure group called   shares, “Whenever one goes for night treks, it's advisable to have a good sleep before starting, as one gets to take a powernap of only two hours throughout the whole night. Enthusiasts are asked to carry fruits with them since one needs to walk for more than 10 kms. Volunteers have walkie-talkies for coordinating and participants are asked to carry essentials like a torch along with extra batteries, good trekking shoes, full lenght clothes, water bottles, blankets, mats and a medical kit.” 
 
 Amish Jain, an entrepreneur and photographer shares, “People prefer night treks because you get to encounter wild species that are otherwise hard to spot.” Amish cautions against playing music in the wild as it disturbs wild life and also suggests you never wander from your group.
 
  
  
 
