PUNE: The 9%   on package tours and hotel bookings from January 22 this year has slammed brakes on leisure trip bookings for the upcoming summer holidays. 

 Industry sources claimed that summer bookings, especially in the international travel segment, had dipped by 30% to 40% since the service tax revision. The travel companies are finding it difficult in convincing people to pay according to the revised service tax rate instead of the previous 4.5%. Consequently, travellers are cutting short their summer travel plans by opting for budget tours instead of premium packages — popular a year ago.
 
 The government this year changed service tax applicable to tour operators. With effect from January 22, tour operators have been asked to pay service tax on 60% of the total invoice value. As a result, customers have to pay an extra 4.5% of the total billed amount as against the earlier norm.
 
 Nilesh Bhansali, the director of   (TAAP), said travel companies were facing a 30% to 40% drop in overall bookings because of the move, resulting in an increase in the total cost of package tours. 
 
 “International travel bookings have been affected the most at a time when people can avail the cheapest airfares for international hotspots. The current price of a Milan round-trip air ticket is around Rs 34,000 per person. So, we have cheap airfares on one hand, but travellers are shelling out a significant amount on the tour as service tax on the other,” said Bhansali.
 
 He said enquiries had dropped for the upcoming summer vacation period. “If I received around 30 enquiries in the same period last year, the number of enquiries have come down to approximately 18 to 20 this year. The revised service tax impact has become visible, though only 11 days have passed since the revision,” he said.
 
 People usually start booking tours in advance from mid-January for the summer vacation, which begins in April.
 
 Amina Ajany, the chairperson of Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Pune, Maharashtra chapter, said domestic as well as international bookings for the upcoming travel season had dipped by 30%. “Demonetisation had earlier hit travellers and travel companies. Now, the service tax hike is like a double whammy. Travel enquiries during the current period for future travel have become slow, while conversions are even slower,” said Ajany.
 
 Enterprising Travel Agent's Association (ETAA)’s western India secretary Santosh Khawale cited a 15% to 30% drop in travel bookings for summer. “Travellers are opting for cheaper hotels and reducing the number of days of travel from their planned itineraries. Enquiries for summer vacation are coming, but bookings are fewer after the total package cost is quoted to clients,” said Khawale.
 
 The travel companies stressed convincing clients of the revised service tax had become a problem. 
 
 “People are not willing to accept the revised tax rate. On several instances, customers urged for the earlier service tax rate to be charged on the bill instead of the revised rate. We have been constantly trying to convince them that it is not possible,” said Zelam Chaubal, the director of  .
 
 She said customers were also choosing budget tours instead of premium tours for the upcoming vacation period. “Say, a family going to Europe may cut short a 12-day travel itinerary to a 10-day affair,” she added.
 
