Canacona: There is still an hour for lunch and classes are yet to get over. But for the students of the government high school in the remote village of Gaondongrim in   taluka, the lunch and classes can wait. They are busy carrying logs of timber into the school to fix broken roofs and protect their books from getting damaged. Leaky roof, damp walls and soggy floors with no potable water and open toilets—the state-run school is crumbling.

 “Rain water from leaking roof spoils our books, and it becomes difficult to concentrate in the class when it rains,” said Class VII student Suhana. “We aren’t scared of the broken roof, we are more worried about our books getting damaged,” Suhana’s classmate Umesh said.
 
 TOI is withholding the real names of the students.
 
 Students, parents and the school management have all pitched in with money, material and labour to repair the collapsed portion of the roof at the government high school inGaondongrim. 
 
 “The year before last, a part of the roof collapsed in the morning at the time when the students were about to come for school. I shudder to think what could have happened had it collapsed during school hours,” one of the parents said.
 
 The collapsed portion was soon repaired by the parents themselves, as they do every year. 
 
 “The roof needs to be repaired every year, and I motivate the parents to get together to do the maintenance work. The locals are of immense help and they do an excellent job. However, the monkeys are a real menace and keep on damaging the tiles, resulting in leaking roofs. Nobody will climb onto the roofs during the rain to replace the tiles as it is sure to come down,” school headmaster Jyotiba Malli told TOI.
 
 The repair works entails “heavy expenditure” towards material and labour, and often, the headmaster has to bear it.
 
 In one of the classrooms, which is used for yoga class, the broken roof truss is fortified by a couple of iron rods held together by coir strings, rendering the structure all the more perilous for the students.
 
 Surrounded by forests, the school has no compound wall to protect the 150-odd students, 13 teachers and other non-teaching staff. Four years have gone by since the management wrote to the education department about the crumbling school, but neither any action has been taken nor an inspection conducted.
 
 “We are very much concerned about the safety of our students, and I have written to the education department pointing out that the school is in urgent need of repairs and renovation. There may have been some delay in attending to the problems, but I am sure the government will look into needs of the school soon,” Malli said.
 
 PTA chairman Ulhas Madival, too, expressed his fears for the students’ safety. “The education department doesn’t seem to be sensitive to our issue,” he said.
 
 “Due to lack of water, female students and teachers are forced to urinate in the open,” a parent, Bhiva Gaonkar, told TOI.
 
 Madival said the school has well trained teachers, which has greatly helped improve the school’s results over the past few years. In 2012, the result was 29%, which increased to 95% in 2017. Despite the crumbling infrastructure, parents thus prefer sending their children to this school.
 
 “We send our students here only because of the hard working staff of the school. The school gets brilliant results. But due to the negligence of the government, the school students have to suffer,” Gaonkar said.
 
 Sarpanch of Gaodongri, Suman Gaonkar, said, “While the government is planning for an advanced education system in the state, it has failed to provide basic educational necessities to students of rural areas like Gaondongrim.” She has demanded that the education department conduct an inspection of the school building and take necessary measures at the earliest.
 
 (With inputs by Babesh Borkar)
 
 
