MUMBAI: The wrath of the country's highest court might have swept away the cobwebs in Indian cricket administration that many ­ in the opinion of legal luminaries and cricket followers alike ­ believe was the necessary thing to do.

 However, in the clean-up process, there's a fact that remains conveniently forgotten. There lies an envelope in the shelves of the   of India gathering dust, one that contains a total of 13 names who were investigated on charges of sporting fraud, and of which only four names were made public.
 
 Then   president  , the Indian Premier League's chief operating officer Sundar Raman, Rajasthan Royals co-owner   and Srinivasan's son-in-law   saw their names made public following which Kundra and Meiyappan were banned for life from having any involvement with Indian cricket or the cricket board. Srinivasan and Raman were eventually found not guilty.
 
 When asked to recall the investigation process, Justice RM Lodha ­ the retired Chief Justice of the Supreme Court ­ did admit to TOI on Monday that Raman indeed was never found guilty of any misdemeanour but refused to go into any further details.
 
 The remaining nine names in the envelope have never been made public.
 
 TOI spoke to a number of individuals ­ who were part of investigations back then and were in the know of things. Most admitted that "if the entire matter was about 'cleaning-up' Indian cricket, the contents of that envelope also should've been made public."
 
 It may never come to light who these nine individuals are and considering that a high-level probe was initiated by the Court itself to investigate sporting fraud, cricket fans will never know if they were cheated and if yes, to what extent.
 
 All the answers to what actually went wrong on the night of May 13, 2016 ­ when Delhi police arrested three cricketers from an upmarket Mumbai suburb and eleven bookmakers from across the country -haven't been brought to light yet.
 
 There were serious allegations. Then Delhi's commissioner of police, Neeraj Kumar, and his team registered cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 420 and 120B, which deal with fraud, cheating, and criminal conspiracy against the cricketers -all bowlers -and went on record to say that they were guilty of compromising their game in return for money promised in the range of US$36,000 to 109,000 for each over.
 
 Some very big names got involved and the apex court appointed a committee, headed by former High Court judge Mukul Mudgal and comprising Additional Solicitor General of India L Nageswara Rao and senior advocate and former cricket umpire Nilay Dutta to conduct an independent inquiry.
 
 In August 2015, the Cricket Association of Bihar (CAB) ­ the same association that was the petitioner in the case against the BCCI ­ had also petitioned in the apex court to hand over the final report of the Justice Mudgal committee on corruption in IPL 2013, along with the sealed envelope, to the Justice   that was later handed over the case and asked to work on setting up reforms.
 
 The SC dismissed CAB's petition and then Chief Justice TS Thakur said: "If the (Lodha) Committee wants to look into it without affecting the image and reputation of some persons, it can consider it. So long as no request comes from Justice Lodha Committee on record, there is no need of passing any order."
 
 The matter was never referred to thereafter.
 
 "The BCCI certainly needed this jolt and we thoroughly appreciate what the Supreme Court has done ­ in shaking up the Board. But that can't be the reason to ignore the fact that the primary reasons for which these investigations first began have been shelved altogether. Clean-up can't be partial," a source who was involved in the entire process said.
 
 To put the last three years in perspective, two presidents of the BCCI were forced to leave but the matter that was first called into investigation now lies in deep freeze.
 
