Greater Noida: YEIDA has asked the concessionaire of the 165-km Yamuna expressway to divide the expressway lanes according to speed. The expressway will now have three dedicated speed lanes of 60kmph, 80kmph and 100kmph.

 YEIDA cief executive officer (CEO)   asked the concessionaire,  , in a meeting on Wednesday to conduct trials before enforcing the speed lanes on the expressway. According to YEIDA officials, the meeting which was meant to come up with ways to enhance safety and security on the high-speed stretch, was held between senior officials of YEIDA, police and transport officials from GB Nagar, Agra and Mathura, RITES, traffic consultants for YEIDA and representatives of the Jaypee group.
 
 “If motorists do not drive according to the speed limits in the respective lanes, they will be penalised for speeding,” Singh said .Singh directed Japypee Infratech to put up signboards informing motorists of the dedicated lanes at 16 locations along the expressway. “We have asked the concessionaire to initially conduct trials before enforcing the speed lanes,” Singh told TOI. The speed limit along the experessway is 60kmph for heavy vehicles and 100kmph for light vehicles including four-wheelers.
 
 Singh said that considering the fact that most accidents along the high-speed stretch occurred because of speeding by motorists the RTOs of, more than 20 states across India have been directed to cancel the licences of 11,634 vehicles for speeding beyond the limit four times in the last three months. “The aim is to bring down the accidents along the stretch. I have also asked the concessionaire to advertise the Highway Saathi mobile app, which will help guide commuters through their journey along the e-way.
 
 “The concessionaire has also been asked to ensure first aid kits at every toll plaza. Chemist shops and ATMs at facilities along the e-way will also be installed soon,” Singh said. “If any vehicles are found to be parked wrongly along the eating joints or at any other location, the police have been directed to take strict action as they pose a serious threat to other commuters using the expressway, he said. 
 
 
