NEW DELHI: If your child is currently in Class VII or a higher grade, you need not worry about the proposed switch to a   in schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education. HRD ministry sources said the proposal, under which students would have to study at least two Indian languages up to Class X, will not apply for batches taking the Class X board exams till 2019-20. That’s because the government does not want to disturb students already following the current scheme. 

 In December last year,   had sent the proposed three-language formula for secondary education to MHRD, setting off speculation over if and when the new scheme would kick in. The proposal has two major differences with CBSE’s existing three-language formula that applies till Class VIII. One, it extends the scheme till Class X, and two, it does away with foreign languages as an option for students. 
 
 Under the new plan, a student would have to take up three Indian languages listed in schedule VIII of the Constitution, one of which could be English. All three languages would be main subjects in the Class X board exams. Students can study a foreign language, or a non-listed Indian language, as an additional subject, which will be non-qualifying in nature.
 
 According to a senior HRD official, even if the new plan is approved by the ministry and CBSE starts working on the scheme it would not “happen before 2019-20”. “The present batches of students who are now in class VII will be able to appear in the board exam under the existing scheme and will not be burdened with learning a new language mid-way. The matter can be taken up by the CBSE governing body once it’s finalised by the ministry later this year so that the scheme can be started,” the official said. 
 
 CBSE officials said that a hurried implementation will result in hardships to students. “A large number of the students at present have opted for a foreign language as their third language. Changing that mid-way would be problematic. Also, with the pressure of the board exam back, this will be additional burden on the children. While the CBSE’s proposal is likely to be approved by the ministry and would be sent back to the board for working out the details and getting it approved by the governing body, rollout will take a couple of years,” a CBSE official said. 
 
 “When the scheme is implemented will depend on the how soon the policy is finalised. Once the policy is framed, the schools would need to be given time as under this formula a student will get the option of 22 languages, for which teachers need to be appointed,” said another CBSE official.
 
