CHANDIGARH: Police made a 16-year-old   at knife-point sign a paper stating she did not want to submit a complaint and assured to “teach the accused a lesson” but took no action even after three days, prompting her family to give a written complaint through the public window at the police headquarters in Sector 9 to the SSP.

 In her complaint, the girl’s mother alleged that her daughter was raped by a youth, Honey, in a shop in   on the night of September 25. According to her, the girl had gone to a birthday party near his house in Hallomajra. Around 2 am, when she was returning home, Honey, who had also attended the party, allegedly abducted her, took her to the nearby shop and allegedly raped her. He allegedly took her pictures and threatened that if she told anybody, he would upload these pictures on social networking sites and kill her along with her family.
 
 The next day, the girl told her brother about the incident. He went to the shop to inquire about Honey but got no information. The family then called up police helpline number 100. A PCR (police control room) vehicle reached the spot and took the family to the Sector 31 police station. Her mother said they told the cops about the rape but they refused to lodge an FIR (first information report) and allegedly took the signature of the girl and her on some papers and told them “they would teach a lesson to the accused”.
 
 On September 29, the family along with the girl reached the UT police headquarters and submitted the written complaint, requesting that the accused be arrested as soon as possible.
 
 The girl said she does not know the address of Honey and knows him only from his name. Later, she managed to take out the accused’s pictures from his   account.
 
 Deepak Yadav, DSP, south division, said, “The Sector 31 police station house officer had told me that the girl did not want to register a complaint, but if she now wants to give a complaint, we will look into the matter.”
 
 
 
 On Friday evening, cops of Sector 31 police station contacted the rape survivor and took her to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, for medical examination. The victim was taken to the hospital around 5 pm following intervention of DSP (south division)  . 
 
 Sources said that within hours after the rape survivor’s complaint to the  , the man at whose shop she was allegedly raped, closed his shop and left the area. Police sources said the accused has also been missing since Friday morning.
 
