NEW DELHI: A   who herself became a   of gross medical negligence has won punitive   against the hospital and its doctor.

 The Delhi State Consumer Commission recently indicted the private hospital and its eye surgeon for medical negligence and deficiency of service, asking them to pay compensation and damages of nearly Rs 80 lakh, for botching an eye operation that led to loss of vision of Dr Prakash Sharma.
 
 The commission, presided by N P Kaushik, held Dr Sharad Lakhotia and Talwar Medical Centre guilty and asked them to pay Rs 19 lakh at 12% interest and Rs 20 lakh at 12% interest respectively. Interest will be charged from 1999, when the complaint was filed.
 
 The consumer watchdog also concluded that both the doctor and the hospital fudged medical records relating to the case to escape liability. Sharma had alleged that the hospital forged her husband’s signature to claim he had given consent before the surgery.
 
 The commission was surprised that despite evidence of fabrication and concealment of documents, an in-house inquiry by Delhi government’s health department gave the doctor and the hospital a clean chit even while admitting in the report that it did not have access to details of operation notes. An earlier complaint by to the directorate health services, Delhi, had led to the constitution of a two member enquiry committee by the  .
 
 “In the absence of surgery notes, enquiry committee could not have arrived at a conclusion that there was no negligence on the part of the treating doctors,” the commission pointed out, faulting the panel for giving an ex-parte order without hearing Sharma.
 
 Taking a stern view of the connivance of the doctor with the eye hospital located in  , the Commission asked the Medical Council of India (MCI) and Delhi government’s directorate of health services to take action against him and the hospital for deficient service.
 
 Through advocate Mohit Mudgal, the woman doctor informed the commission that she underwent a cataract surgery in 1998 at Talwar Medical Centre after which she lost vision in her left eye, forcing her to stop her medical career.
 
 “Complainant (Sharma) by profession is an obstetrician and gynaecologist. She has been deprived of conducting surgeries on her patients. She became a social recluse after having lost sight in the left eye,” the commission noted.
 
 Sharma, who served with the Army Medical Corps, also alleged that Dr Lakhotia’s negligence led to the injury, which he tried to cover up by hiding the true outcome of the surgery and gave her misleading assurances that her vision would return soon.
 
 Lakhotia, however, denied any wrongdoing on his part and claimed the patient had suffered the injury due to a fall at her house, an argument the commission rejected.
 
 Dr Sharma, widowed soon after the incident, welcomed the verdict. “I feel fortunate to have seen justice served in my lifetime. My husband, Wing Commander V K Sharma was working hard on this case on the day he passed away. Wherever he is, I feel he will be happy to see his efforts have finally brought the guilty to justice.”
 
