While a lion's share of actors in   haven't raised their voice against the controversial hydrocarbon project, director   has proved to be different. The director, who was heading to   where hydrocarbon is extracted, after joining the protest in Pudhukottai, talks to CT. He says, "I have not come here to protest as a film celebrity, I have come here as a farmer. Because I come from a family which has agriculture as its family occupation. Having born and brought up in a farmer's family , I understand the varied plight of the farmers. I hail from Pudhukottai -even if the protest had happened in some other place, I would have raised my voice. People here spend money in farming without any profit, but still they continue to do it. Because, farming for them, is not mere a job -they passionately work on the fields and take it as a pride. If the hydrocarbon project takes off, it will take a toll on the soil and atmosphere. The soil will become infertile for agriculture. The entire population in Pudhukottai which depend completely on agriculture will be affected. Agriculture is the only occu pation for them. Many families have been suffering as agriculture has been terribly affected owing to drought. In such a situation, if the project happens, that will be the end of agriculture there. As a farmer's son, I believe it is my duty to protest against this."

 Unlike jallikattu, film celebrities have not raised their voice against this project. Ask him about the same, and he says, “From the industry , it was good to see   sir tweeting about this issue. Filmmaker  , too, has joined the protest.I'm sure the protest will be successful like jallikattu if students take up this cause actively .“
 
 Talking about getting back to farming, Pandiraj says, "Farming was the only thing I was into till the age of 23. I forayed into cinema as I was not able to depend totally on agriculture. Tomorrow if I stop film making, I will have to get back to agriculture. I have already bought a land and farm ing is going on. I believe agriculture is permanent, cinema is temporary ."
 
 
