Happy. That’s what I felt while lunching at Bandra’s Su Casa. That emotion was a result of the airy, cheery ambiance and the company of two young, sparkly, lively actresses. When not busy with her work as the CEO of Mumbai’s biggest speech and drama institute, London’s Trinity College award-winner   loves checking out restaurants. And she does so with   — speech, drama consultant and writer (soon starting her own lifestyle Alehouse tales blog), and a great cook, too. It was a happy, giggly afternoon and I got the benefit of their palate opinion, too.

 
 
 Housed in the intriguingly shaped building of The Bombay Art Society, the high-ceilinged, glass-walled restaurant has a cheery vibe. Meshman artwork, things sprouting out of the ceiling, al fresco dining area (lush vertical landscaping), et al.
 
 
 
 Swiss Fondue to Japanese Teriyaki Tofu… this menu hedges its bets and tries to please as many diners as possible. It’s the Baos that we enjoyed the most. Fluffy soft baos encase Teriyaki Chicken made crunchy with scallions, coriander and papaya noodles. The intense shitake flavour of the Mushroom Bao delights. Moist and al dente Alio Olio Spaghetti is recommended. As is the heady Espresso Martini and Jack The Ripper (ginger ale and Jack Daniels).
 
 
 
 Stodgy and lacklustre main courses. Be it the oversauced Three Peppercorn Chicken with cranberry and thyme jus mash or the roast chicken. Overcooked Risotto, which lacked the mushroom flavour. Oversweet Walnut Prune Pie. For some reason, both our desserts had avocado. The Chocolate Mousse is paired with an Avocado Dollop and the Sizzling Brownie with Avocado ice cream. Avoidable. Noisy when crowded.
 
 
 
 A restaurant experience is not just about food (though that indeed is very important) but several other factors also come into play. In Su Casa, the cheery, high-ceilinged ambiance, the service (thanks Akram) and drinks delight. So, even though it has a clichéd crowd-pleasing menu, with many a dish that lack panache and consistency, Su Casa ends up offering a pleasant experience.
 
