Suman Reddy, MD,   talks about managing  .

 
 When both aspects of life — professional and personal — occupy equal importance, balancing becomes easier. The usual narrative in the corporate world is that the personal element is secondary, and despite being considered sacrosanct, is usually expended for the sake of a steep career growth. I have time-slots after work, to spend time with my family and friends. This helps me draw some mental boundaries. Golf is a great way to de-stress, along with my passion for reading.
 
 
 I work out through the week, as fitness is an integral and indispensable part of my life. Further, I watch what I eat. Both these habits help me accomplish my health and fitness goals.
 
 
 When I look at where I am, and where I intend to be, I begin to visualise being there, and that boosts my energy levels to go out and realise those dreams. Happiness comes when you see the hard work materialise, and leads to personal as well as corporate transformation.
 
 
 Reading autobiographies is something that I draw deep inspiration from. Steve Jobs’ autobiography by   is a recent one that occupies my mind.
 
 
 Risk-taking and planning are key parts of an executive’s life. Taking strategic business decisions that may have long-term ramifications, can be considered ‘risk-taking’, overseeing the daily, run-of-the-mill activities is ‘micro-planning’. 
 
 
 With my philosophy to always dream big, and achieve the impossible, failure is something that is inevitable. I believe that someone who has faced failures and has proactively taken measures to come back on top, is more experienced, and can face what life throws at them. Taking failure in your stride, respecting the lessons learnt from it, is how I look at the domain of failure. Success is the sweet-smelling essence of the work put in.
 
 
 Staying calm and composed is the foremost attribute that helps you to be efficient. Since risks could take various forms, seeking expert opinion, listening to select individuals in my circle (whom I can count on) are sure ways to start fixing the crisis.
 
 
  by Walter Isaacson
 
 
 Inception
 
 
