If the ticker-tape parade put up by his friends and fans during his recent visit to Hyderabad is anything to go by, then it’s safe to assume that LV   is a big contender for this season   title. And why not? The 25-year-old Mehdipatnam boy has got the voice, the looks and the chutzpah! And what’s more, he even has 200-odd songs in Tollywood and Sandalwood, to his credit, despite the fact that he’s not even a trained singer. In a chat Hyderabad Times, Revanth takes us through his journey so far and tells why 
he believes he is Indian Idol material.
 
 
 
 It feels great of course! I am grateful for to all those who have been supporting and voting for me till date. I hope people continue to vote for me, ’cos I promise to keep singing well and hope to win the title, not just for me, but for Hyderabad as well. 
 
 
 In Vizag. That’s where I was born. Even before I was born though, I lost my father. I grew up with my mother and elder brother, Santhosh. 
 As a kid, I used to participate in local singing competitions in Vizag, and that’s how my passion for singing began. I started doing well and so we moved to Hyderabad in 2008 so that I can pursue a career in singing. I studied B.Com at AV College, and while in college too, I used to take part in many reality shows in Hyderabad. In fact, I won one of them and was adjudged runner-up in a couple of others. MM Keeravani garu spotted me and introduced me to Telugu films. That’s how my singing career kick-started. I have lent my voice for films such as Badrinath, Dhammu, Rajanna, Ee Rojullo, Naa Ishtam, Shirdi Sai, Sudigadu, Supreme, Thikka among others. 
 
 
 
 I want to make a mark in Bollywood as well; I want to be known nationally like   sir. it was my uncle   who encouraged me to participate in the show. He loves Hindi songs and would always tell me, ‘if   or Sreeramachandra can participate and do well, why can’t you?’ It’s because of him I am where I am now. 
 
 
 That’s also another reason why I chose to participate in the show! I wanted to brush up my Hindi and ab mujhe thoda thoda Hindi aata hai (laughs). I got offers to sing for Hindi films in the past too, but things didn’t materialise because of my diction. My Hindi has a huge Telugu influence. but I’m working on it and trying to converse in Hindi with people. 
 when it comes to singing though, I think I’m pretty good at learning the lyrics by heart; it’s about time before I master the language.
 
 
 It was nice to hear that from her. (grins) Such comments do make me happy. But I don’t take them too seriously; I don’t want it to get to my head, you see. as far as being “hero material” is concerned, I’ve have had a lot of offers from South films, including one Tamil film, but I didn’t take up. I want to focus solely on my singing career and carve out a distinct identity for myself. I hope this platform will open new avenues for me. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Abhi toh Indian idol hi meri girlfriend hai. I’m single. But, it’s just healthy flirting, you know. I am a little mischievous I guess and that’s what you get to see on TV. 
 
 
