HYDERABAD: A day after chief minister   announced huge sops for the Backward Caste (BC) in the state budget, a sea of BC supporters swarmed his   causing a massive gridlock in the city.

 The members led by animal husbandry and fisheries minister Srinivas Yadav descended in the afternoon to thank KCR, taking even police personnel by surprise by their sheer numbers. Traffic movement came to a halt on all routes and traffic cops had a tough time managing snarls that began at 2.30pm and continued up to 7 pm.
 
 Massive jams were seen across routes from NTR Bhavan to Sagar Society; at Panjagutta Crossroads; Raj Bhavan to Villa Marie College; Rasoolpura to Prakashnagar; SR Nagar Junction to Maitrivanam; Masab Tank towards Khaja Mansion; VV Statue to Shadan college; among other routes. Several road diversions were also imposed by traffic cops to manage the heavy snarls.
 
 Hundreds of citizens were caught in jams during peak hours, delaying their journey by 45 minutes to one hour on an average. Pachiripalli Krishnaraju, a pharma professional took 45 minutes to reach Panjagutta from Greenlands around 3.30pm. “Every time there is some meeting at the CM's office, citizens suffer.The CM should probably shift his camp office to the outskirts,“ he said.
 
 Many caught in the jams took to social media to vent their anger. One such person Murali Karthik using twitter handle @rakthik posted, “Trafficked from Prasads to Nagarjuna Circle. Avoid.#Traffic #Hyderabad.“
 
 Akriti Patwari, tweeting under @aakritipatwari handle, said, “#Hyderabad pls lemme reach home. Am hun gry! How much #traffic??
 Which #VIP is in town? A city with bad roads n tiny ones!“ The traffic flow on the routes eased out only around 8pm. The traffic police kept sending alerts on various social media platforms asking residents to steer clear of these log jammed areas.
 
 
 
 
 Celebrations and thanksgiving demonstrations are part of political showmanship. But when such events spill over on to the street, big or small, it results in chaos that can be felt kilometres away. Such was the case, when the traffic mess that began outside the CM's official residence at Greenlands resulted in long and noisy traffic jams on most major roads around the area.An efficient government is one that does not allow an event where people praise it to the sky to affect those who are not part of it. Till this is learnt, Hyderabad can only dream of being a Global City
 
