PUNE: Ten years after three flyovers came up to ease the  , a new proposal is shaping up for the re-modelling of the junction outside the main gate of   Pune University. 

 The fresh plan is to streamline the movement of vehicles and restrict choking of traffic. The proposals includes construction of a grade separator and a flyover to ensure free flow of traffic on Aundh, Baner and Senapati Bapat roads.
 
 Local MLA Vijay Kale and his team have been working on the proposal for the last one and half years. It will now be presented before chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for further consideration.
 
 If necessary, the current infrastructure comprising the three flyovers may be torn down. These flyovers came up after the huge round turn with a fountain was pulled down a decade ago. 
 
 Kale said the proposal is crucial to deal with increasing traffic at  . “Despite the existing flyovers, the chowk witnesses daily traffic congestions and long queues of vehicles on roads coming from Aundh, Baner and Pashan are common. We have attempted to come up with a comprehensive plan for obstacle-free traffic movement,” Kale said.
 
 The re-modelling was necessary because the chowk will support three major projects, including the BRTS route from Shivajinagar to Aundh, a metro rail from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar and a High Capacity Mass Transit Route. The proposal has given due consideration to all these projects to avoid confusion and mismanagement, Kale added. 
 
 The metro rail route is being developed by PMRDA while BRTS and HCMTR projects are expected to be developed by the civic body. 
 
 The cost of re-modelling, which may run into hundreds of crores of rupees, has not been finalized. Sources in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said the cost would be decided in consultation with the state government and other agencies that are expected to work on this project. 
 
 The PMC, Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority and state government may jointly share the cost.
 
 Kale said he expected to discuss the proposal at a meeting with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis next month. “The CM himself is heading the urban development department. We expect to discuss the next course of action and chalk out a plan for the implementation of a remodelled university chowk,” he added.
 
 The standing committee of PMC in its budget for 2017-18 announced Rs 5 crore for the re-modelling and the provision of a grade separator and a flyover. 
 
 Regular travellers are already angry with the long queues and waiting time at the chowk. Commuters claimed all the existing flyovers which are one-ways should be turned into two-ways to reduce   and help vehicles directly access the roads without a halt at the chowk. 
 
