TRICHY: In a daring feat, a 20-year-old college student hailing from a fisherman's family in Nagapattinam district swam 5 kilometres in the Bay of Bengal on Thursday with his hands and legs bound with an iron chain. Eyeing a Guinness world record, S Sabarinathan plunged into the sea at Nagore at 8 am and reached Nagapattinam port at 10.20 am, covering the distance in 2 hours 20 minutes and 48 seconds. The earlier record belonged to Gopal Kharvi of Udupi, who had swum 3.07 kilometres from St Mary's Island to Malpe shores in 2 hours 43 minutes. 

 Son of Subramanian of Akkaraipettai, Sabarinathan made the attempt under the category of "farthest swim wearing handcuffs and leg irons", in the presence of Trichy district sports officer B Siva and coaches B Raja and Sathishkumar. 
 
 The documents and pictures of his swim have been forwarded to Guinness authorities.
 
 "My brother S Manikandan was instrumental in my taking up this sport as he is also a swimmer who had won many events. I started to swim at the age of 11 and practise every day in the sea," he said. 
 
 Sabarinathan admitted it was very difficult to practise braving the waves. "When I do it with hands and legs bound, the pain around the waist is immense", said the second year student of BSc IT at   in Nagapattinam. 
 
 He said he had been a normal swimmer until he came across the new challenge of swimming with hands and legs cuffed which he practised for six months. 
 
 "Since I had already practised in the sea, I could complete the mission without much effort", he added.
 
 Sabarinathan had won more than 400 medals in various categories of swimming since 2007 including the national level competition held at Goa where he secured gold in butterfly stroke and tenth place in an international event held at Cyprus. He had earlier practised to cross Bay of Bengal between Kodiakarai and Sri Lankan waters. Since he was not given permission by the concerned authorities, he abandoned the idea. 
 
 He thanked his college administration, students, and his villagers who had extended their help and encouragement all along his journey. 
 
