VARANASI: The   and police released the list of 12 persons on Sunday evening, who died after   on July 6 and 7. Many families allege that their members died after   but their names were not included in the list. If the claims of these families are taken into account, 26 persons died in the hooch tragedy. 

 District magistrate Chandrabhushan Singh clarified that the list had been prepared on the basis of postmortem examination conducted in   district only. Investigation would be done in cases where families claimed that the death was caused due to consuming spurious liquor.
 
 On Sunday evening, the DM and SP AK Sahni held a press conference and released the list of 12 persons who died due to consumption of spurious liquor. 
 
 Talking about the outcome of magisterial probe and police investigation, they said that Ram Cahritra of Chautahia village, where many families are engaged in hooch manufacturing, procured spirit from somewhere. He consumed it on July 6 and died.
 
 His family and villagers assumed that he died naturally and started preparations for his cremation. Before taking part in his cremation, Sahni said, about 15 participants also consumed the same spirit after which two of them died while condition of others started deteriorating. The police reached there and rushed the ailing persons to the hospital. On July 7, five of them died during treatment while a total of 12 died till Sunday. He said that the deaths had been caused due to consumption of the same spirit was confirmed in a laboratory test. This report cleared that the spirit contained 88% alcohol. He also mentioned that 18 ailing persons were referred to SSL Hospital of Varanasi.
 
 At Laatghat, when body of Pramod Sharma was taken for cremation, his family members alleged that police were forcing them to cremate the body without postmortem examination. They blocked Azamgarh-Gorakhpur highway and staged demonstration. The police agreed to send the body for postmortem examination. After getting the postmortem report, the officials included the name of Pramod in the list.
 
 Other families claiming that their members have also lost their lives in hooch tragedy turned aggressive. They alleged that police were admitting that Ram Charitra was first to die after consuming spurious liquor but they did not include his name in the list. The families at least 10 others also said the same thing.
 
 
