Ramanathapuram: A total of 112 events spread over seven days have been planned by the family of late President A P J Abdul Kalam to commemorate his second death anniversary. The events will take place under the banner of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation. Beginning from school and college-level competitions on Abdul Kalam, the list includes relay and marathon race (Madurai to Rameswaram), launch of a newspaper, library inauguration in his name at the government school, eye checkup and organ donation camp. The events will be inaugurated on July 20 and is scheduled to take place till July 27. 

 Many events are centred around students because he loved their company, says Dr A P J M Nazema Maraikayar, Kalam’s niece. The foundation has sent out posters to schools to organise the competitions among students in their institutions. Some of the major events during the seven days are distribution of wheelchairs and drought kit to farmers; say no to plastic and distribution of jute bags; release of Kalam’s memorial anthem and honouring labourers involved in the construction of his memorial, she said.
 
 The family has also planned to honour the student’s team who developed Kalam Sat – the small satellite. The inauguration function will be held at Mohammed Sathak College at Keezhakarai. They have invited eminent personalities like ISRO’s chairman, A S Kiran Kumar, scientist Mylswamy Annadurai, Kerala governor, P Sathasivam and Nobel Laureate, Kailash Satyarthi for the inaugural event, said Kalam’s grandnephew, A P J M J Sheik Saleem. 
 
 Meanwhile, the memorial hall at Peikarumbu constructed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation is nearing completion and would be inaugurated on July 27. The work is taken up on a war-footing with a countdown board set outside the hall. 
 
 Kalam, hailing from a humble family in the pilgrim town of Rameswaram rose to great heights and came to be known as Missile Man of India. He then served as the scientific advisor to Prime Minister and later became the country’s 11th President during 2002 – 2007. He passed away on July 27, 2015 after suffering a cardiac arrest at Indian Institute of Management, Shillong few minutes before delivering his lecture. 
 
 Kalam was laid to rest at Peikarumbu in Rameswaram Island with full state honours. As the second remembrance day is nearing, the family is planning to make the event a big one for the pilgrim town. 
 
 
