CHENNAI: Chennaiyin FC (CFC)'s new coach   is a battle-hardened man. From playing top-flight football for English clubs for 18 years to managing big teams for over 25 years - he has coached the likes of   and   - the 63-year-old Briton had been in the thick of action before being forced to take a sabbatical for two years with a heart ailment.

 It is now with the CFC coaching role that Gregory will be making a comeback into professional football. "I had a problem with the aortic valve and I needed open heart surgery to rectify it. It wasn't stress related though.   (former   coach) also had a major heart problems and had to undergo a similar operation. But he went back to managing Aston Villa after six months. He says himself that it was too quick. When I underwent the surgery in 2015, I made sure that I got plenty of time to recover. I have a new valve now and it is in perfect condition," Gregory, who was presented on Friday, told a media conference here.
 
 The years of experience has taught the former Villa manager that stepping into his predecessor  's big shoes won't be easy. The Italian legend had a decent run with CFC in the past three years, including a title triumph in the second season. "Materazzi has done an amazing job and the fans loved him here. I was humbled to see fans turning up at 5 am to welcome me. So, I understand the expectations that they have from me. I hope I can help the club have an exciting season ahead," Gregory asserted.
 
 Even though Gregory has spent most of his time in England, he claims that he is aware of a thing or two about Indian football and ISL. He believes that the Indian players are not being given enough opportunities to prove their mettle. "Some of the Indian players in   have been in awe of the foreign players and have possibly not been given the opportunity to prove themselves. If it's a choice between foreign and Indian players, the foreigner gets the priority. But I am impressed with the new regulations that allow for only five foreigners in the starting XI instead of six. It's a positive step and will ultimately improve the Indian team," Gregory said.
 
 During his stint at Aston Villa from 1998-2002, Gregory's coaching philosophy was workmanlike and he says it hasn't changed much over the years. "It means that I need 100 per cent from the players every time they take the field. Everything I do is for the team and there is always rationale behind my moves. I would give players plenty of chances to prove themselves. In return, I will want my players to be honest with their work ethic and conduct themselves on the pitch. I don't want them to argue with referees and fight with the opposition. Age doesn't matter to me. If they are good enough, they are young enough," Gregory, who is highly influenced by former England great  ' coaching style, explained.
 
 For the time being though, Gregory's major task will be to pick the best players from the ISL draft. With CFC coming in only from Round 4, they are at the risk of missing out on top Indian players. "We don't have much worries because we already have four good players compared to   who haven't retained any. I will be relying on the judgment of our assistant coach Sabir Pasha, who is very experienced. We have some targets and will go all out for them. We will be happy if we get 75 per cent of the targets," said Gregory. 
 
