Irony died a thousand deaths in Kochi on International Women's Day when a group of armed hooligans, in the garb of ‘moral police’ and ‘protectors of women’ stormed on to the Marine Drive, and literally caned grown up women who were sitting and enjoying an evening with their male friends!

 This, in the name of protecting them from “sexual crimes”. The group, consisting of a measly ten people rounded up the young couples who were sitting around and drove them away, literally, shouting at them, and threatening to cane them! ‘Stop sexual crimes against girls’. Stop this ‘under-the-umbrella-love’ at Marine Drive’, screamed the banners they held. The young men and women fled, scared and embarrassed, even as the Kochi police, who were given prior intimation about the attack, pretended to stop the attackers without really doing it. “We had been meaning to give these love birds a lesson,” a homeguard standing nearby sneered.
 
 Now, Kerala is seething. Widespread protests have erupted across the State against this blatant goondaism, that too, disturbingly with the silent support of the police. Student bodies took to the streets in protest on Thursday, at the Marine Drive. ‘Sneha Irippu Samaram’ and ‘Sadachara Chooral Vilpana’ has been the youth’s way of protesting against this shameful culture of threatening to cane adult men and women. ‘Is this Indian culture?’ asked students, as they shouted out slogans. But is anyone listening?
 
 While the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has promised to take steps to transfer the policemen involved and has also assured that strict action will be taken against those who indulge in moral policing, and Ernakulam Range IG P Vijayan assured that “action has been taken against the policemen who didn’t stop the hooligans”. 
 
 But Malayalis with a mind of their own wonder if that alone will be deterrent enough to stop the moral police. After all, they are becoming more and more brazen by the day. Is this the end of the intellectually evolved Kochi, and Kerala, as we knew it? While the jury is out on that, Malayalis who feel enough is enough tell us that this moral policing has to stop. Now! 
 
 
 
 
 This is a dangerous situation! We are going back to the primitive age where we used to take out weapons to react against something which seemed unpleasant. It shouldn’t be encouraged. Moral policing has been a part of Kerala psyche over the years, but it used to be usually an undercover activity, as everyone here boasts of being progressive. On the contrary, here we saw a group of men informing the media and the police and caning the couples. They were showing off their heroism as if they were doing something great and righteous! The government, the police, the media and even the society just stood as mute spectators while they were flaunting their ‘’valour’.
 
 
 
 I don’t think the system would change in the near future. It is only going to get worse. Earlier, two girls and a boy were subjected to moral policing inside the Kerala University College campus. And now this party has attacked the youngsters at the Marine Drive. It is not about a particular religion or community, it is the mentality of the people which is highly anti-woman. All these people seem to have been taught the same syllabus from a small age. They are not capable of understanding friendships and relationships which could be professional. These people see only two human bodies when they see a man and a woman. I have been a victim to this and escaped only because of my luck. If the police had arrested these so-called moral police on the spot and had jailed them, it would have been a deterrent to the others also. There should rigid laws from the judiciary and government regarding such uncouth behaviour. 
 
 
 
 
 I was shocked, disgusted and angry watching the visuals from the Marine Drive. Yes, it is true that we all know what this party is up to. They think all relationships between a man and a woman are illicit! And they are ever ready to police couples with sticks and flags! Who are they to take law into their hands? The Marine Drive is a place where we all would love to sit and relax, and it’s meant for the public. I strongly believe that they have an agenda behind what they did on Wednesday; probably to establish themselves here? It should not happen and we should not let our kids grow up seeing and hearing such regressive ideas!
 
 
 
 The ‘party activists’ might have invited the media and police with an idea to grab attention! But this is Kerala. We are an intellectually awakened society and your gimmicks will not work here! Fellow Malayalis, I want to say that if at all they thought they can establish their ideologies in God’s Own Country, we should nip it in the bud! Let’s not entertain them but protest. Not just the netizens, the entire Kerala should come together and protest. We should make them realise that a public space is a social space that is open and accessible to all. And what the visitors do over there is their personal issue as long as they don’t create nuisance to society! 
 
