A recent study found out that only 10 per cent of New Year sign-ups at gyms stayed on as regular customers for a year. As per the findings, the most common reasons for quitting the gym ranged from lack of time to not being able to wake up early in the morning and noticing no difference in weight among other things. We spoke to a few   in the city to check if this phenomenon is true...

 
 
 The merrymaking that starts from October and goes on till New Year’s Eve is why most people enroll in a gym in January. Needless to say, many of them not in the habit of working out daily end up quitting sooner than later. And so, the numbers are higher. Manan Sethi, 24, is a case in point. He says, “I partied a lot with my friends when we had gone for vacations in December. I had put on a lot of weight and wanted to lose it quick and so, joined the neighbourhood gym. However, it bogged me down within three weeks itself and I stopped gymming altogether. I’m telling myself that January was only a trial month and plan to resume it.”
 However, the sole reason also leads to people quitting it as soon. Girish GC, a personal trainer, says, “Many come with the objective of shedding off post-party calories. When one takes a resolution, they don’t realise that their body is not in the habit of working out and it is a sudden change in their lifestyle. It takes a while before you get addicted to it and make it a way of life.”
 
 
 
 
 After achieving their targets, many do not feel the need to work out anymore. And this lack of motivation is another deterrent. Sunita Sahu, an HR professional, had started working out regularly. But six months later, after achieving her target she discontinued her membership. “The cost for hiring a personal trainer is higher and post losing weight, I thought it is okay to go on without a trainer. Eventually I lost interest and I now go for walks, instead. I also monitor my diet closely.”
 Fitness trainer and nutritionist Sandeep Sachdev emphasises on the importance of motivation. He says, “It’s important to identify what you love doing the most. People need to constantly motivate themselves and should look forward to working out. No motivation results in quitting quicker. Coming to the gym is the biggest investment one can make for themselves.”
 
 
 
 Many wish to see quick results as soon as they join the gym. And when that doesn’t happen, people end up feeling demotivated and eventually quit. Gym trainer and nutritionist, Priti Sawant, says, “Those looking at losing weight quickly are hugely disappointed when things don’t work out as they had expected. And so, they end up falling back to their old ways and opt out of it. In my case, I’ve seen a lot of women quitting as they are burdened with household and other responsibilities.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
