IMPHAL: Congress on Wednesday evening expelled its MLA-elect   from primary membership for indulging in 'anti-party activities' as he defected and joined the first-ever  .

 Shyamkumar, along with eight legislators, was administered the oath of office and secrecy as minister at Raj Bhavan in the afternoon. As Shyamkumar has failed to respond to the party's show cause notice served to him on the matter, he has been expelled from the primary membership of the party for six years, said  , said Manipur PCC secretary (administration) S Jeeten Singh.
 
 "This is probably the first time in the political history of India that an MLA-elect of an opposition party has defected and joined the ruling coalition government directly as a minister," said  , a few hours before Shyamkumar's expulsion order was released.
 
 Echoing Haokip, the outgoing chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh said it was a "shame" that BJP, that rules at the Centre, indulges in such activities. "I am not angry with Shyamkumar, but he has made a mockery of Indian democracy," Ibobi said at a hurriedly summoned press conference an hour after the swearing-in ceremony of the BJP-led coalition government headed by its new chief minister   was over at Raj Bhavan.
 
 Shyamkumar, on the other hand, said, "I support BJP and joined it to abolish corruption. This is the people's mandate and people want a change in Manipur, so I have changed my decision. I will face whatever consequences the decision may lead to." The MLA, who won from the Andro assembly constituency in Imphal East third time in a row, has had a chequered political history. His first victory came in 2007 under the banner of the regional Manipur People's Party (MPP). In 2012, he got elected on a Congress ticket. In September last year, he was one of four Trinamool Congress MLAs who switched sides to Congress.
 
 Shyamkumar's entry into BJP came at a crucial time, when the party was hurriedly stitching together a coalition to get to the magic figure of 31. Eventually, the BJP-led coalition had 32 MLAs on its side. Other coalition partners of the just installed government include NPP and NPF, both with four MLAs, and one each from LJP and TMC besides the Independent MLA.
 
 Soon after Shyamkumar was administered the oath of office and secrecy by governor Najma Heptulla, the Raj Bhavan hall was broke out in applause. He then shook hands with BJP and Congress leaders, including Ibobi Singh, who were sitting in the front row of the tightly packed hall.
 
