KANNUR: Putting an end to the suspense on Sunday, Kozhikode clinched the gold cup at the state school arts festival for the 11th consecutive time, thus asserting their dominance once again. Kozhikode clinched the title with 939 points, while Palakkad came second with 936 points, while host   came third with 933 points.

 There was much anxiety till the end and the question ­ who would clinch the title ­ sparked different answers as the tally oscillated among the top three districts till the last day. The results of the competitions in the last day went in favour of Kozhikode, pushing Palakkad to second position, thereby repeating last year's scenario.
 
 At the festival that witnessed huge turnout and tight competitions, BSS Gurukulam Higher Secondary School, Alathur, Palakkad and MKNM HS Kumaramangalam, Idukki shared the top slots for the best performing schools.
 
  scored 113 points clinching the title for the school that came first in the high school category, while MKNM HS came second with 83 points. In the higher secondary category, MKNM HS topped the chart with 131 points while BSS Gurukulam HSS came second with 123 points.
 
 In the Arabic Kalolsavam, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kollam, and Thrissur won the first position with 95 points each while Palakkad, Malappuram and Kasaragod came second with 91 points each. Govt HSS, Kallar, Idukki, topped the list of the schools with 56 points.
 
 In Sanskritholsavam, Ernakulam, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod shared the first position with 95 points each while Thrissur came second with 91 points. Parippally ASHSS, Kollam, was the school that topped the chart of schools with 48 points.
 
 Opposition leader  , who inaugurated the valedictory function, said arts festivals help revive many art forms that are on the verge of extinction. “ Art forms like Margamkali, Chavittunatakam and various other art forms are being revived thanks to this festival. The fete also gave space to present contemporary socio-political issues in items like mimicry and mono act, which is highly relevant today,“ he said.
 
 The strength that art provides transcends political and religious boundaries and it brings a positive change in our people, said Chennithala, adding that art melts our minds.
 
 Magician Gopinath Muthukad, who was the guest of honour at the function, said when the competition is among parents who want their children to become the topper, it creates concern among children. “We should not force children to become like others. We should instead help them become themselves and realize that they are unique,“ said the magician, who also performed a small magic item that underscored all districts are one when it comes to such festivals. The festival souvenir was also released at the function. 
 
