Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is set to give the Walled City area its due as a heritage precinct by taking up development of the area between the four gates. 

 It has invited expressions of interest to rope in a consultant for the heritage development of the area. This is the first time that the VMC will be taking up such an initiative to develop an entire area keeping its built heritage in mind. So far, the efforts have been limited to sprucing up individual buildings like the Mandvi, Laheripura Gate, Panigate and others.
 
 The VMC is now looking for an expert’s help to design and beautification of main road and surrounding area between the Laheripura, Champaner, Panigate and Gendigate gates. The expert will also have to design roads, dividers, lighting poles, signage and all surrounding existing structures keeping the heritage value of the area in mind.
 
 VMC officials said that the consultant will have to conduct a research on the heritage in old city of Baroda using archival and material research. The research will have to throw light on the construction techniques used in the old city as well as historical chronological development of the area. It will have to do an in-depth analysis of the existing market pattern and use of the existing facilities and those needed in the area.
 
 The study by the consultant will also throw light on the defects and deterioration of the heritage structures and any maintenance-related problems with them. The consultant will also have to make a conservation management plan for the walled city.
 
 Sources in the civic body said that the bids had been invited keeping in mind similar work done by the Surat Municipal Corporation. The VMC has set April 17 to receive the expressions of interest. 
 
 Shortlisted agencies will be asked to make presentations on their plans for development of the area following which one of them will be selected.
 
 The VMC had expressed its commitment to develop the heritage of the city in the budget for the current financial year. It had earmarked funds amounting to Rs 25 crore for the work in this direction.
 
 
