NEW DELHI: The National Human Rights Commission ( ) has told the   ( ) that the current turmoil in Kashmir also concerns the human rights of security forces as well as those who have been attacked by stone-pelting youth. 

  The commission called the use of plastic pellets by central forces in J&K "controversial", stopping well short of endorsing the complaint of secessionists and a few human rights activists who have accused the Centre of using pellet guns as an instrument of terror. 
 
  The country's apex human rights body further said that the present turmoil in Kashmir was "augmented by trans-border terrorism and jihadi funding from the neighbouring country", clearly hinting at Pakistan. 
 
 The NHRC report has been submitted to the   (UPR) Working Group of the   which is to review India's human rights record on Thursday: an exercise which is likely to be used by Pakistan and international human rights groups who have long been unsympathetic to India to embarrass the country in the light of allegations of excesses by security forces.
 
  The commission said while there was a 17% rise in communal violence in 2015, the Communal Violence (Access to Justice and Reparations) Bill, which was prepared by the Sonia Gandhi-headed National Advisory Council during UPA-2, was yet to become law. 
 
  In its report to the United Nations body, the NHRC referred to violence due to beef eating but observed that the incidents were no threat to the country's secular fabric. "Sporadic instances of violence concerning eating of beef have been reported. The fringe wing of Hindutva brigade is alleged to be behind these incidents which are few and far between. Though disquieting, it is too early to assess whether they could be a threat to secular and pluralistic structure of Indian society," NHRC said. 
 
  The rights body also slammed the government for not ratifying the UN Convention Against Torture (CAT), which condemns torture and inhuman and degrading behaviour towards prisoners by public officials, even though India signed it almost 20 years ago. The NHRC criticised the legal system as well. It said, "The legal system continues to be dysfunctional with slow disposal of cases and inordinate delay in giving finality to both criminal and civil litigation." 
 
  Talking about PM Modi's pet project Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan, the NHRC said even though the government has taken initiatives , "large number of habitations/households do not have access to safe drinking water sources. 
 
 
