KOLHAPUR: Members of   — constituted by the   (KMC) in October 2015 — have not met even once since its inception, claimed experts.

 The main objective of the committee is to look into conservation of biodiversity, including preservation of habitats, conservation of land races, folk varieties and cultivars, domesticated stocks and breed animals, micro-organisms and chronicling of knowledge relating to diverse elements.
 
 Last year in July, the then mayor   had called a meeting that discussed primary information related to the functioning of the panel and its objectives.
 
 Uday Gaikwad, a city-based environmentalist, said, “The meetings of the board should be called regularly as per the guidelines of the government. The KMC has not yet appointed special officer to monitor the functioning of the board. The current environment officer is already occupied with three other responsibilities. The civic authorities should understand the importance of the committee as it will help protect and conserve the biologically diverse nature of the city.”
 
 He added that the KMC can earn revenue if new ideas are generated in the board. “For instance, there are 40 unique species of trees in the city. The KMC can plan nature ride for students and tourists. The board has to mark the biodiversity hotspots, register them and frame the policy to protect and conserve these hotspots. I have written two letters to the civic authorities demanding regular meetings of the board,” Gaikwad said.
 
 According to the Environment Status Report 2013-14, the city is blessed with vegetation comprising traditional plants such as pachira, Brasil nut, Australian chestnut, crysophyllum, hanuman fruit and colvhaliya that needs to be conserved.
 
 Environmentalists in the city have so far spotted 84 varieties of butterflies, 13 types of migratory birds and four varieties of local migratory birds. The board consists of experts in various fields such as botany, agriculture, forestry, fishery, NGOs, citizens and environmental education.
 
 Also, seven local officers from various departments of forest, irrigation, health, animal husbandry, fishery, education and tribal welfare department are invitees to offer suggestion in their respective fields.
 
 On being asked about the board, chief environmental officer of the KMC R K Patil said, “The board needs to be reconstituted. Also, the environmental issues are discussed in other committees such as steering committee or the standing committee. The government guidelines do not specify number of meetings to be called within a stipulated period.”
 
