NOIDA:  ,  , will now be able to see after she was   on by doctors at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute,  ,  

 Born to Mohammed Vakil and Rahila, residents of New Ashok Nagar in Delhi, on May 1, the child could not open her eyes and the doctors could not examine her cornea or the retina. Though the surgery in itself was not a difficult one, it was the infant’s tender age and her heart condition that put doctors in a fix over whether to go ahead with oculoplasty surgery or not.
 
 The child also suffers from two heart ailments. She has atrial septal defect (ASD), a hole in the wall that separates the two chambers of the heart and patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), an ailment in which a fetal blood vessel fails to close at the time of birth. 
 
 The two lead to mixing of pure and impure blood among the heart chambers and no change in the blood circulation even after birth.
 
 In normal cases, the ductus arteriosus or the fetal blood vessel, closes during the birth or within 72 hours of the birth. 
 
 However, in this case, it did not close even after the birth, resulting in the same blood circulation post-birth. The doctors were in two minds and hence consulted the neo-natal care and anesthesia team of the hospital. “The baby was brought to SSPHGTI soon after birth on May 1 in a private hospital. When she came to the hospital, she could not open her eyes. We were doubtful about the possibility of one or more congenital problems as we could not examine her eyeball, retina or cornea and hence referred her to our neo-natal care team and anesthetist,” said Dr Vikrant Sharma, head, department of Ophthalmology.
 
 “Since the ASD was not too serious, we decided to go ahead with the surgery after administering controlled anesthesia to the child for 20-50 minutes. It was finished in half-an-hour,” the doctor said.
 
 According to doctors, it was the administration of anesthesia which pertained certain risk as newborns’ response to the anesthesia is unpredictable.
 
 
