CHENNAI:   general secretary V K  , who has been waiting for an invitation from Tamil Nadu Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao to her to form the government, told MLAs staying in a resort at Koovathur near Mahabalipuram that she did not have any  , Gudiyattam   Jayanthi Padmanaban told TOI.

 “I (Sasikala) decided to stay with Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) and live for her at the age of 29 and left my husband and family members. Now, I am 62-years-old and I don’t have any political ambition. I want to the movement (AIADMK) that is the third biggest party in the country to flourish. It was nurtured by Amma and I don’t want to see the movement to fade away in my life time,” Jayanthi told TOI, quoting Sasikala.
 
 Sasikala met the MLAs in the resort on Saturday evening even as chief minister O  , who 
  , got supports from senior party leaders and MPs.
 
 Sasikala told the MLAs that people had given the party the mandate, and party legislators had the duty to serve for the people, said the MLA, adding, “She (Sasikala) asked them to remain united to withstand the testing time.”
 
 “I am a lawyer by profession and no one can hold be captive against my will,” said the MLA and added that she had been staying with other party MLAs in the resort at their own will. 
 
 “We want the party to continue the legacy of Amma (Jayalalithaa). We decided to take a unanimous call and are waiting for Governor’s response,” said the MLA.
 
 Jayanthi added that she had been receiving around 2,000 calls daily in the last few days. The callers claimed that they were from Gudiyattam constituency. “Several callers are speaking in an intimidating tone. So, I prefer to avoid calls from unknown phone numbers,” she added.
 
 “We, in fact, are enjoying our time here. My husband and children are coming to the resort daily and staying with me till late evening. There is no restriction to move around. We are having nice food here,” the MLA candidly said. She further said that the other MLAs were also enjoying their time in the resort.
 
 Asked about reports that a few MLAs were down with flu, she said: “We are staying in two resorts. Minister Rajendra Balaji is down with flu and taking treatment. Others are fine.” 
 
 She downplayed the 
  by some MPs. “The issue is related to forming the government and MPs have no say in it. They may have forced to join the faction group due to pressure in Delhi (central government). Besides MPs, a few MLAs are only with a faction group. They cannot form the government,” she said.
 
