MUMBAI: Despite having a strong raiding unit marshalled mainly by   (482 raid points in 4 PKL seasons),   have been rather inconsistent in the  . After finishing 5th in the first season, they improved to 3rd in the second, but again dropped back to 5th in the third season.

 They improved again to finish fourth in Season 4. This time with virtually a new team, the Titans are coached by 34-year-old  , who was a member of 2006 Asian gold medal-winning Indian team. Though it is his first coaching assignment in PKL, former raider Kumar told TOI he has a team capable of winning the title. Excerpts:
 
 Tell us something about your team's preparations in the run up to PKL 5?
 
 The camp was held at Oro Sports Village, Gandipet, Hyderabad over 45 days. It was conducted in three parts. We first focused on physical fitness then in the second part we had practice sessions on individual and team combinations. The third part was all about game planning.
 
 Have you identified the players who will have to shoulder major responsibilities?
 
 Yes, I have identified all of the players' strengths and weaknesses. Kabaddi being a team sport, all players will have to shoulder equal responsibility based on the situation of the game, and the experienced players will bring in their inputs.
 
 Is managing a 25-member squad going to be a challenge over three-month long season?
 
 No, it's not a challenge to handle a team of 25. It involves team work. All players hail from different backgrounds. They will take one or two days to settle down and know each other. Thereafter, it will be smooth sailing.
 
 This time there will be many youngsters with virtually no experience. How do you rate their quality?
 
 They are all good individuals who have put in a lot of effort to reach this stage. Young players look up to seniors whom they have admired as their role models. Also, for the young players it is a good opportunity to learn during the course of the league.
 
 Which, according to you, are the teams that look strongest and where does your side stand in the scheme of things?
 
 All teams seem to be equal in terms of distribution of players, but, I feel  ,  ,   and   are strong. We are surely one of the strongest sides, and looking at the team's practice, we hope to win the title.
 
 With PKL 5 scheduled to run for almost 13 weeks, how will you be able to maintain the intensity among players?
 
 Game planning and motivation will be the key to maintaining the intensity levels.
 
 Many players are over 30. How do you plan to keep them injury-free over 13 weeks?
 
 Maintaining a high standard of fitness will hold the key to remaining injury free in the long season ahead.
 
