MUMBAI: On the morning of June 24, Byculla jail inmates broke down the terrace door, climbed the parapet and announced the death of inmate Manjula Shetye. Around 10pm, the jail authorities marched all   inmates to the central open space, turned off the lights and over 15   police personnel rained blows with lathis and rods on the hapless  . Jail superintendent C Indulkar, who till the previous day was on leave, was present when the organised thrashing took place... This was described by women inmates to two women members of the Maharashtra  .

 The regular horror the women undergo in prison was recounted in the legislative council on Friday by Congress MLC Husnabanu Khalife. She, along with Nationalist Congress Party legislator Vidya Chavan, had visited the prison on July 17 and spent six hours talking to inmates. They ensured no police personnel were present while they spoke to the women, said Khalife.
 
 “Woman after woman recounted how Shetye had been repeatedly beaten by police personnel. It was not simply about eggs and bread. There is something more sinister,” she said.
 
 Khalife said on the day Shetye was assaulted, the metropolitan magistrate had visited the prison between 12.15pm- 12.40pm as per the jail register. “Inmates told us that just before the magistrate arrived, the jail authorities were thrashing Shetye. They then dragged Shetye by her hair, gagged her and locked her in the bathroom. Thereafter, they came down, met the magistrate, and after she left returned to Shetye.”
 
 She was dragged and brought to barrack 5, and in the presence of inmates, beaten with rods, they said. “They all kept crying, telling them to stop, but to no avail. Even a foreigner in that barrack told us that she kept pleading, ‘please stop, but they would not listen. This was done to serve as a lesson to other inmates. They were warned not to give her any water,” said Khalife.
 
 In the evening, when she would not move and they saw her breathing had stopped, the women raised an alarm. A doctor checked on her and she was taken to JJ hospital, where she was declared dead. “They repeatedly said she had died in the barracks,” said Khalife.
 
 The story of brutality was repeated by women in other barracks too. In fact, Shetye and another inmate had sought a transfer to another prison. After her death, the other was shifted to Nashik jail.
 
 Khalife said these were not isolated cases. On April 11, Fazleen Shaikh had been taken to court, where her mother offered her kheema pav. As she could not eat it there, she brought it back to the prison. She was beaten up by over a dozen male police personnel for this. “For four days, she could not move, said the inmates,” recounted Khalife.
 
 Khalife said there are 301 women at Byculla jail, of which 62 are convicts and the rest are undertrials. Some undertrials have been there for more than three years. “Many women are inside for cheque-bouncing, cheating and theft cases. All are bailable offences. The legal aid cell should have ensured bail at least to reduce overcrowding,” Khalife said.
 
 The legislator said there was no water in all bathrooms in the barracks. “The women said they drink water from the toilet tap. They are not provided water for a bath for four-five days. During summer, it gets very oppressive,” she said.
 
 Minister of state for home Ranjit Patil said the government had sought a list of undertrials from jails across the state, and it would ensure they received legal aid on priority, especially those who did not have family members. He agreed to Khalife’s demand that a woman officer should be in-charge of jails where there are women, and a female doctor should be posted there.
 
