GUWAHATI: The standing committee of the   (NBWL) has given nod to   located within 10 km of the   here. The two projects are for augmentation of the refinery’s Indmax unit from 0.1 MMTPA to 0.15 MMTPA and INDAdeptG to reduce sulphur from motor spirit (petrol) for meeting the  . Both projects are within a distance of 10 km from the boundary of the sanctuary.

 The Indmax technology has been developed by   (IOCL) for high yield production of LPG and other petroleum-based products.
 
 NBWL is a statutory body constituted under the  , 1972. While NBWL is mandated to review wildlife-related issues, clearance from the body is a must for projects which are proposed in and around national parks and sanctuaries.
 
 Though the standing committee gave clearance for the projects at a meeting in New Delhi this month, it also laid down several conditions which have to be implemented to mitigate impact on environment and wildlife. For both the projects, the committee backed the state chief wildlife office’s recommendations, saying that periodic monitoring of pollution by the State Pollution Control Board should be mandatory in areas close to the sanctuary.
 
 The standing committee also categorically said that the refinery should provide funds for wildlife conservation and mitigation of human-animal conflict.
 
 Among other recommendations was diversion of 9.94 hectare forest land from the Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary for the construction of a new railway broad gauge line between Agartala and Sabroom in Tripura with conditions laid down by the Site Inspection Committee for the project.
 
 The conditions included making the gradient of embankments on either side of the railway line “more gentle or flattened” to avoid trapping of wildlife and plying of trains through the forest patches of the sanctuary within a speed limit of 45 km per hour.
 
 The inspection panel has also asked for the creation of passages for small mammals, reptiles and amphibians along the track. It has also recommended the creation of the Garjee Reserve Forest’s 30 sq km area into a conservation reserve under the Wildlife Protection Act.
 
