CHENNAI: The  , which recently announced dates for   under the Right to Education Act ( ), is pushing for the process to go completely   this year. Speaking to TOI, school education secretary T Udhayachandran said those seeking to submit hard copies of the applications will also be guided to upload their applications through the 10,000 e-seva centres across the state or other facilities arranged by the department.

 To prevent any difficulty in uploading online applications, especially in  ,   are being set up for every 5 to 10 villages so that students/parents can apply at these centres. “Data entry operators will also be present at these centres to assist them in this process free of cost. Schools will be advised to provide help to parents to upload their applications online,” said the education secretary. Students can also upload applications free of cost at the offices of the chief education officer, district education officer, inspector of matriculation schools, and elementary education officers. An SMS will be sent to the parents’ registered mobile numbers following the application process. 
 
 When asked whether internet access for students from rural backgrounds would be a difficulty, department officials said that as many as 15 lakh applications had been submitted online earlier including from remote districts, indicating awareness of the online application process. 
 
 The online process, they said, is being encouraged to ensure transparency. Several complaints have been received by the department regarding schools not admitting students under RTE. Schools have cited delay in RTE fund reimbursements leading to difficulties in carrying out admissions.
 
 The department has said that funds of Rs 125 crore have been allocated by the state government to schools for admitting students under the 25% RTE quota during the years 2013-14, 2014-15 and 2015-16. 
 
 Online applications for students who wish to secure seats in private schools under RTE quota for 2017-18 will be open from April 20 to May 18 at www.dge.tn.gov.in. As many as 1,26,262 RTE seats are available at the entry level across the 9000 private matriculation and kindergarten schools, said a release issued by the department. 
 
 
