PATNA: School-children in uniform appeared to rule the roost when Bihar on Saturday formed its over 11,000km   against addictions.

  of   in the city was riding his bike back home along with his son after his admission interview at St Karen’s, when he was stopped by policemen at the   and not allowed to proceed further. “The Patna high court should have categorically banned involvement of children in the chain. Without them, it would have been a damp squib and people like me would not have been caught in this road blockade,” he fumed.
 
 This reporter rode his bike on the bypass road up to Masaurhi, and met students who said they were asked by teachers to join the chain or their admission would be cancelled and benefits like cycle and uniform taken back.
 
 Incidentally, the state government had on Friday assured the Patna HC that students and teachers would not be forced to participate in the human chain. Also, the government had been saying that only students of Class V and above would be allowed to join the chain, but this reporter saw several tiny tots who appeared to be nursery and kindergarten kids. 
 
 Reports said 20-odd schoolkids collapsed while standing in the chain in Patna, Aurangabad, Begusarai and Gopalganj. They were sent to health centres for treatment. One schoolboy reportedly died in Purnia, but ADM Ravindra Nath said he was not in the chain and died on way to hospital in an ambulance.
 
 Back in Patna, Ananya Kumari of nursery and Anamika of LKG in Mother Teresa High School at Kurthaul near Sipara had no idea why they were made to stand on the Patna-Masaurhi road. “Miss boli thi aane, isliye aaye hain (We are here because our teacher asked us to come),” Anamika told TOI. 
 
 UKG student Vaishali Kumari of Ravindra Bharti School at Suitha in Phulwarisharif said everybody in her class was asked to participate in the human chain.
 
 Sanjit Kumar of Government Boys Senior Secondary School at Shastri Nagar in Patna, said their teacher told them on Friday that every student should join the chain. Sanjit was standing near the Hanuman temple on Bailey Road. 
 
 Anshu Kumari of Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalay at Sipara Dih in Beur echoed Sanjit while teachers too said they were on duty. “We were assigned duties to safely bring students for the chain and take them back after the event,” said Ranjan Kumar, a teacher at a school at Suitha in Phulwarisharif.
 
 Villagers at most places stood as spectators. “What purpose will this chain serve when liquor is easily available, albeit at a premium?” asked Ram Bilas Ram of Nathupur in Parsa Bazar.
 
