HYDERABAD: Blame it on the biryani if you will, but turns out, Hyderabadis have the weakest will power when it comes staying away from a delectable meal. Not surprising then, they lag behind most other cities -including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Lucknow -when it comes to following a healthy diet to keep heart ailments at bay. 

 At least that's what a recent nation-wide survey suggests, indicating how 84 per cent of Hyderabad's women respondents gave in to unhealthy eating primiarily due to the stress at home.
 
 While the percentage of men giving in to the temptation of food, owing to familial reasons, is found to be relatively lower -67% -the study shows that it is work pressure and lack of sleep that keeps most of them away from leading a healthy lifestyle. In fact, when it comes to job stress being a barrier to a fit life, Hyderabad stands only behind Kolkata and Chennai.
 
 The study conducted by Saffolalife (it highlights the barriers that Indians face when it comes to leading a healthy life), covered six cities and involved 1,306 respondents -all of them identified as being at a high risk of contracting cardiovascular diseases ( ).
 
 Stressing how taste dominates the food choices of most people from Hyderabad, the survey reveals that while the national average of people rejecting healthy food (on a daily basis) for not being tasty is 74%, in the city it is a high 85%. Hyderabad is followed by Lucknow, Kolkata and Chennai are the most taste-driven cities, per the study .
 
 Food apart, adding to the burden of heart ailments are other unhealthy practices too like excessive time spent on tabletphone, which results in a sedentary lifestyle. The lack of facilities and infrastructure such as insufficient space to exercise, workout, do yoga, walkrun to their nearby officeshomes, are other deterrents, the study adds.
 
 In Hyderabad in particular, 71% of the respondents said that the lack of space to exercise or workout, was the reason for their unhealthy lifestyles.
 
 As per the study, even while there has been a rise in levels of awareness among Indians about heart health, the risk of cardiovascular diseases continue to see a northward movement. 
 
 “Despite the awareness, compliance and action remain major areas of concern. We need to put more effort to remove the barriers identified in the study so as to encourage people at a risk of CVD, to lead a healthy lifestyle.
 
  It is important to adopt ways to stay `heart healthy' despite changing food habits, long working hours and increase in work stress, all of which have become a part of our modern day lifestyles,“ said cardiologist Dr  , while commenting on the findings of the study 
 
