Complete chaos was witnessed on the busy Ring Road, which houses textile markets, on Friday as anti-Goods &   (GST) protests continued for the 14th day. 

 However, of Textile GST Sangarsh Samiti (TGSS), which is spearheading the agitation, claimed that the protesters were not textile traders and the agitation looks to have been hijacked by some anti-social elements. 
 
 A mob of more than 1,000 people virtually laid siege to the Ring Road that was blocked for hours, forcing the police to clamp prohibitory orders in the area. Sources said that the mob took to the roads after Hitesh Sanklecha, the textile trader, who is on fast since July 1 to protest against GST, was taken to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) by the police. The mob gathered outside JJA/C Textile Market and choked both sides of the Ring Road. 
 
 Thousands of daily commuters were put in severe trouble and long queues of vehicles were seen on the Ring Road even as the protesters refused to relent. Even the large presence of the police did not deter them. 
 
 The blockage drama went on for more than five hours as the police moved towards the approach end of the fly-over at Sahara Darwaja to ensure that the traffic is diverted from the Ring Road fly-over. 
 
 The TGSS leaders said they too were taken aback by the sudden road blockage as this was not the part of the protest programme. 
 
 “I don’t know where the crowds come from. Blocking roads was not part of our protest programme. There was not a single trader involved in the road blockage. It is a big conspiracy to defame the textile traders,” claimed convener of TGSS, Tarachand Kasat. 
 
 The day began with the mob moving around the textile markets, shouting slogans decrying   MP CR Paatil and union finance minister  . 
 
 A pro-GST trader asking anonymity said, “Most of the mobsters were tempo drivers and textile labourers. Some were agents as well backed by those who don’t want others to open their shops.” 
 
 Lalit Sharma, a textile trader from Japan Market said, “The agitation is running without any leaders. I heard people in the mob stating that they will continue such programmes in the days to come and that they are not afraid of police.”
 
 “We have orders to maintain law and order and ensure the smooth flow of traffic on Ring Road. Till further orders we are unable to take action” said a senior police officer. 
 
 Ankit Agarwal, a property dealer, was found instigating the mob against the media persons. He gathered the agitators and shouted slogans against the media persons. Some of the photographers including the TOI lensman,   was ghearoed by the mob. Agarwal was later handed over to the Salabatpura police.
 
 
