Ace comedian   has run into another controversy — this time, however it involves legal entities and binding agreements.
 
  Sunil has run into a fresh controversy, this time in Ahmedabad.   Vastupal Shah, a resident of Ahmedabad, who works as an event manager in Jasu Puja Event Company in the city has filed a complaint alleging that Mumbai-based Devang Shah, the director of X-Factor Entertainment Company and Sunil's manager, promised to organise an event with Sunil, but breached the contract and is now holding a similar event with a different organiser in Ahmedabad.
  
  An angry Rajpal moved the court and filed a complaint under section 417, 418 and 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A local magistrate in Ahmedabad has now ordered an investigation against Sunil and Devang on charges of cheating the organiser and has asked the police to investigate the allegations.
  
  
 
  
  The complainant has alleged that Sunil, initially agreed to do a show for him in Ahmedabad and later reneged on his promise. In addition, what has come as a surprise to him is that Sunil is now slated to do a show with another organiser on May 27, the date they initially agreed upon. "On Facebook , I saw the poster of 'The Comedy Family Show' in Ahmedabad and I was shocked as the concept was mine and I saw the poster that said it is happening on May 27. When I called Devang, he said I didn't have the 'patience' for the show," claims Rajpal. "He's offering me other dates, but I wanted to be the first one to bring Sunil to a show in the city."
  
  In his defence, Devang told Mirror, "Its true that wer did take a token amount of Rs.10 lakh but returned it soon after we realised that we could not manage to do the show due to scheduling problems/ inavailablity of Sunil on the changed dates as mentioned by the organiser." According to Devang, all was fine till the token amount was returned. He claims the 'harassing'calls started after the money was remitted in Rajpal's account.
  
  
 
  
  "Once he got the money he started making false allegations, going to the media, in his zest to harm Sunil's image. Till that time, we didn't even have a show, and then I told him now it is not at all possible to work with him," said Devang.
  
  Meanwhile Rajpal has threatened that he will not let Sunil's show happen in the city. As this battle gets ready to be fought in a courtroom, Rajpal has said he will also pursue a civil suit against the comedian.
