GOGHAT/ KOLKATA: Former Kolkata mayor and CPM leader   was heckled on his way to   in Hooghly on Saturday evoking strong protests from Left and Congress.

 A crowd stopped his car near Ullaspur, about three kilometres from the spot, and asked him to go back. When Bhattacharya got off his car, locals, allegedly belonging to Trinamool Congrees, shoved and kicked him. While the senior lawyer fell on the ground, they snatched his cell phone. The men in the crowd shouted: “CPM go back, murderer Bikash Bhattacharya go back”. The demonstrators were referring to the   in Goghat during the Left Front rule. 
 
 Bhattacharya was leading a Save Democracy team to this place in Hooghly that had hit the headlines following a stir over the state government’s bid to take control of a part of a 17-acre waterbody, Bhaba Dighi, for laying rail tracks. Members of the Save Democracy team, including former state women’s commission member Bharati Mutsuddi, had planned to reach out to the disgruntled owners of the waterbody who had refused compensation cheques. “Police stood as mute spectators as we were attacked. Even two women members of our team were not spared. I didn’t face such a situation even in 1972 when tyranny reigned supreme in Bengal,” Bhattacharya said. The senior lawyer took the car to the SDPO office with police escort and filed a complaint.
 
 Former Supreme Court judge   said: “I fear that Bikash has become an eyesore for the Trinamool government because he is the one who took the Narada and Saradha matters to the court of law. I see it as an attack on the rule of law.” West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury also made a mention of the attack on Bhattacharya during his representation to West Bengal Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. “We told the governor that the Mamata Banerjee government is denying political space to the opposition. This incident is a case in point,” Chowdhury said. Later, Left Front took out a   from Entally to Sealdah demanding arrest of the culprits. 
 
 Goghat Trinamool MLA Manash Majumdar, however, claimed that the demonstrators were not from his party. “Kin of victims of violence and torture under Left rule demonstrated to prevent CPM leaders from entering the area.” 
 
