NEW DELHI: A chargesheet of around 200 pages, with annexures running into 45,000 pages, was filed in a Saket court against former law minister of the AAP government, Jitender Singh  . He was arrested in 2015 on   of forging his degrees and subsequently forced to quit.

 Tomar has been charged with forging two of his degrees and a migration certificate. Apart from Tomar, 15 others, including his personal assistant, university staffers, touts and associates have been charged for being a part of a “fake degree racket”. The case has been filed under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy,   and cheating (120B, 420, 467, 468, 469 and 471).
 
 The former minister is alleged to have forged his BSc degree from Awadh University, Faizabad, and LLB degree from Tilka Manjhi University, Bhagalpur. The migration certificate submitted to Tilka Manjhi University for admission to LLB is from Bundelkhand University, whereas he graduated from Awadh University, the police said.
 
 Investigations in the case began on May 11, 2015 after a complaint from Punit Mittal, secretary,  . The complaint was transferred for action to Hauz Khas police on May 13.
 
 Subsequently, Delhi Police teams led by an ACP went to Bhagalpur, Bihar and Faizabad to verify the degrees. The police scanned the record of KS Saket Post-Graduation College, Ayodhya — which comes under Awadh University — from where the alleged BSc degree and marksheets were issued in Tomar’s name.
 
 His name was not found in the college admission register and the roll numbers mentioned in the BSc marksheets and degree were not found in the college or university records, police said.
 
 The controller of examinations of RML, Awadh University, Faizabad reported that no BSc degree and marksheets in Tomar’s name had been issued by the university. The LLB provisional certificate issued by Tilka Manjhi University was also fake. The roll number mentioned in the LLB provisional certificate was found allotted to another student,   Chaudhary, in 1999.
 
 The facsimile signature of controller of examinations Rajender Prasad Singh on the LLB (Part III) marksheet and the provisional degree were also found forged.
 
 
