HYDERABAD: Commuters using major arterial roads in Greater Hyderabad can expect better roads soon. The   and Urban Development (MA&UD) department has mooted the setting up a   (RDC), a special purpose vehicle, to take care of maintenance of city roads.

 Municipal Administration minister,   on Wednesday announced in the Legislative Assembly the setting up of Road Development Corporation (RDC). He also announced a corpus fund of `500 crore for improvement of roads. Though the government is working out details of the corporation, it is likely to headed by Municipal Administration minister himself.
 
 Of the total 9,000 km length of roads in the city including those in residential colonies in   (GHMC) limits, about 400 km roads, especially 240 km roads that were handed over Roads and Buildings department and 80 km of roads belonging to National Highways in the city and some stretches of  , would be brought under the purview of the proposed RDC. Commuters have had no option but to accept the battered roads, especially after the monsoon despite GHMC claims that it spends about `450 crore to `500 crore annually on re-carpeting and repairs.
 
 The poor condition of the roads is also a result of lack of coordination among various departments. GHMC says that some damaged stretches of roads come under National Highways that are out of its purview. Similarly , roads damaged due to metro rail works have to be repaired either by Hyderabad Metro Rail or the metro rail developer L&T resulting in Rama Rao expressing anguish openly over condition of the city roads on several occasions. And since road cutting also causes damage to roads, the minister announced that henceforth, road cutting would be allowed only after tender for road restoration of that stretch is finalized.
 
 “The main advantage of the proposed RDC is that there would be a dedicated agency that would take care of maintenance of roads. Secondly , the funds allocated for roads improvement would be spent exclusively for roads without diverting for other purposes such as drain works,“ GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI on Thursday .
 
