Mumbai: Indian companies will need to buckle up to compete in a fiercely-competitive, but most lucrative market in the world, US, in the wake of a tough operating environment. US President-elect Donald Trump’s strong remarks on high prices of medicines, and new procedure for bidding on drugs indicate a difficult environment in the US, which is the largest market for Indian generic companies. Trump’s statement on Wednesday that pharma industry is “getting away with murder”, sent share prices of domestic companies, including Sun Pharma plunging.

 Though the reaction was “more knee-jerk”, analysts and industry experts said domestic companies can expect pricing pressure to intensify. India contributes around 30% of the overall volume of drugs consumed in US. Complete details of the proposal are yet to be disclosed but the impact on domestic companies may not be significant, analysts added. 
 
 Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, CMD,   told TOI: “The Indian generic pharma industry has been addressing the need for affordable pharmaceuticals of the US patients for decades and has enabled the US government to bring down its healthcare spends. In that sense, I believe Indian Pharma is already aligned with President-elect Trump’s vision of containing healthcare costs, and therefore will not be impacted much with his anticipated policy changes. I think he will be focusing on introducing new pricing models that will make expensive innovator drugs more affordable, considering that the generics are priced at almost one-tenth of the branded drugs”
 
 Medicare, the largest single US payer for prescription drugs, is by law unable to negotiate pricing. “Medicare, which provides health insurance to an estimated 55 million people — 46 million older than 65 years of age, and another 9 million with disabilities, is also in a financial bind,” Deepak Malik of   said in a note.
 
  accounts for 20% ($619bn) of all US federal spending which was $3 trillion (grown by 5.3%) in 2014. If this gets implemented, then it will have a negative impact on all the pharma companies. But if price is the main criteria by Medicare to source its drugs, then it will force the insurer to go for generics for savings. However, a key risk can actually come if the new government comes with an import tax or favours companies, which manufacture in the US, by forcing the medicare/medicaid to put this condition in the sourcing, then it will impact all Indian generic companies”, Deepak Malik of Edelweiss Institutional Equities said in a note.
 
 
