NAGPUR: City police commissioner   on Thursday advised citizens to opt for alternate routes rather depending on main avenues to curtail waiting time at junctions, which would be wrapped with bandobast during the visit of Prime Minister   and other ministers on Friday.

 With less than 24 hours left for the acid test of security and traffic arrangements, the city police performed rehearsals of the movement of PM’s cavalcade under the supervision of   (SPG) and other central agencies.
 
 Venkatesh, who addressed the media on security arrangements, said more than 2,200 personnel and officers have been deployed for PM’s visit, along with the manpower from other units and agencies as reinforcement. “More than a dozen anti-sabotage, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squads (BDDS), Quick Response Team, Riot Control police, etc have been deployed,” said Venkatesh, who was flanked by joint CP Shivaji Bodkhe, DCP (special branch) Ravindrasing Pardeshi and DCP (traffic) Smartana Patil during the press meet at his Civil Lines office.
 
 Meanwhile, the fire department has spared three fire tenders and 40 staff, mostly firemen. For the governor’s visit, one fire tender and 20 staff will be deputed.
 
 Modi, along with his team of ministers, would be launching BHIM cash and referral schemes, BHIM Aadhar apart from awarding prizes of Grahak yojana and Digidhan Vyapar yojana. He would also perform the bhoomipujan of Pradhan Mantri Awas yojana, AIIMS Nagpur, IIM Nagpur and IIIT Nagpur.
 
 However, the prime minister would not be laying the foundtion stone of Maharashtra National Law University as reported.
 
 In a press release, MNLU registrar has informed that for any such function, chancellor’s permission is required.
 
 “Extensive briefing has been done to the constables to ensure minimum inconvenience to the citizens. Signages have been erected for guiding the citizens. Notifications have been issued for closing certain stretches of roads but efforts would be to ensure unhindered traffic flow which could slow down at places,” the CP said, appealing to the masses not to park vehicles on roads.
 
 Venkatesh also stressed that exhaustive preparations have been made encompassing inputs and experiences from various agencies from state and central governments. “The security plan has been finalized after incorporating various intelligence reports and suggestions,” he said.
 
 The CP also said that the control room has been supplied with additional manpower. “DCP traffic has been co-ordinating with other construction agencies, including   whose works on the road would be suspended for a day,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, he said that the police have also given permission to Kanhaiya Kumar’s programme.
 
