MUMBAI: In a rare instance of a “bid to get rid of a case at the earliest“, a 31-year-old man who has been in jail since 2010 for a  , pleaded guilty to all charges before a  . Thus, the  , Sayed Shah, alias Chote Khan, will not have to  .

 No witnesses were examined. Sentencing Shah to nine years' imprisonment last week, the sessions judge observed, “His admission is the best piece of evidence and there is no need to call witness to prove the charges against the accused.“
 
 Shah is the only one in jail for the bank robbery case. Three others who were granted bail are absconding.
 
 The crime was committed in August 2010 at the Shimpoli, Borivli, branch of  . The looted amount was Rs 27 lakh.
 
 Shah's lawyer, Sunny Waskar, told TOI that fed up with the never-ending wait for the trial to commence, the accused took the decision of pleading guilty . “His family too had stopped supporting him. He wanted to see an end to the case. He hoped his good behaviour would ensure that he gets a lesser sentence,“ Waskar said. Shah pleaded with the court to consider the time already spent in jail as his sentence.
 
 While seeking the maximum sentence against Shah, public prosecutor DN Mudiganti submitted that two more cases of bank dacoity were pending against the accused at Charkop and Malad police stations. The maximum sentence for dacoity, the charge under which Shah was found guilty, is life.
 
 Referring to prosecution's submission the court further observed, “It is obvious that the accused has adopted the way of living by committing robbery. Therefore, reformatory sentence is required which will meet the end of criminal justice.“ Shah was arrested on October 15, 2010. The time already spent in jail will be set off against his sentence.
 
 The case was registered with the Borivli police by the manager of the Shimpoli branch of HDFC Bank on August 30, 2010. The manager said that on the morning of that day , when the bank started functioning, one of the employees brought out Rs 27.89 lakh from the vault room and kept it in a bag in the cash counter cabin.
 
 He alleged that at 9.20am he suddenly heard an exchange of abuses and a person pushed the security guard. The manager said four more persons followed the accused and snatched the gun from the second armed guard.
 
 He recalled that the accused then threatened everyone saying, “Sab jan apne apne jagah par hath upar kar ke khade ho jao (everyone put your hands up and stay where you are).“ The masked accused then decamped with the bag containing Rs 27.89 lakh, in addition to about Rs 2 lakh kept in a drawer at the cash counter. They escaped after pointing the gun at all those present, among them 11 employees and three customers. The manager then contacted the cops.
 
