NAVI MUMBAI: The criminal case of alleged   at the   area in   district has now been transferred to the local crime branch of Raigad district police for further investigation. 

 Several top honchos of JSW business group were booked as accused in an FIR lodged earlier by a Raigad based environmentalist, Surendra Dhavale, this month at Vadkhal police station. 
 
 They were charged over the alleged destruction of   and encroachment of government land by carrying out jetty construction work at the creek area in Raigad district.
 
 Meanwhile, a full-time director of JSW   Port company, Rashmi Patra, who is among the list of accused in this case, had moved the Bombay high court on Wednesday to urge the division bench to quash the case, directing the police not to take coercive steps against the accused. 
 
 In her affidavit, Patra has mentioned that the complainant (Dhavale) is a habitual litigator, and goes to various forums. The complainant selectively hides certain facts to arm-twist the company for money, Patra further stated in her affidavit, and that the case is essentially of civil nature.
 
 However, the high court bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Anuja Prabhudessai directed that the accused was at liberty to take anticipatory bail if they apprehended arrest in this case. 
 
 The court also sought to know how much time the Raigad police needed to fully investigate the case and were told by the prosecution that around two months of inquiry will be required.
 
 Lawyer Aditya Pratap, who is representing Dhavale, said, “We had recently succeeded in lodging an FIR after filing a criminal case before the judicial magistrate first class court of Judge S M Savleshwarkar in Pen. In this case, we had also submitted details like Google Earth satellite images to support our case that mangroves were illegally destroyed for the expansion of JSW Dharamtar Port. We will continue to pursue this case and challenge the charges against my client in the next hearing.”
 
 Several top directors of JSW group, including Sajjan Jindal, Arun Bongirwar, among others are listed as accused under section 15 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, and the IPC sections 447 (criminal trespass), 420 (cheating). 
 
  TOI had contacted the head office of JSW group in Mumbai last week. A corporate communication manager had refuted the charges of environmental damage against the senior-most company leaders. 
 
 “We scrupulously follow the law of the land and the allegations are baseless. We will take appropriate legal recourse to defend our position,” observed the JSW group spokesperson.
 
 Meanwhile, the next hearing in this case in the high court is on March 27, as the court expects the police charge-sheet to be filed by then and placed before the court.
 
 
