MUMBAI: More cases of   were registered by Mumbai   Police in the first half of 2017 than the entire last year. But 56% challans have not yet been paid. 

 Rash driving is a key cause of collisions and poses a risk to motorists and road users. Over 15,800 cases were recorded between January-June this year. Annual prosecution in 2016 was only around 94,00 cases. “Up to last year, we used to impound driving licences of offenders and issue them a temporary one until they paid the fine. This stopped with cashless e-challans. Offenders not carrying plastic money can pay online or at the chowky. Payments started reducing to a trickle,” said an official.
 
 The traffic department collected around Rs 26.8 lakh in fines between January-June. Annual fines collected last year were higher at Rs 28.5 lakh despite fewer cases being recorded. 
 
 To make offenders pay up, traffic   have resumed impounding driving licences. “For e-challans recorded through cameras, the biggest hitch is reaching offenders. Our vehicle-user database has addresses of owners only of vehicles registered in the past two years. The RTO has the same issue. We are gathering contact details of older vehicle users. We are contacting automobile insurance companies for contact details and vehicle registration numbers of clients. We are also exploring outsourcing delivery of challans to offenders’ homes. Motorists with more than 3-5 pending challans are being identified and a constable is sent to their home to tell them to pay up,” said joint commissioner (traffic) Amitesh Kumar.
 
 Rash driving peaks on stretches with fewer vehicles, such as Bandra-Worli sea link, Eastern Freeway, and seafronts like Carter Road, Marine Drive and Worli Seaface. “Residents used to complain of dangerous driving on K C Road at Bandra Reclamation. We undertook joint drives with the local police station. Two-wheeler riders racing were slapped with rash driving charges and their bikes were impounded. To get their motorcycles back, offenders would have to go to court, which was a good lesson against dangerous driving. In some cases, we found bikes to be stolen and riders would dump them,” said a Bandra traffic outpost official. 
 
 In January-June, traffic police issued 18.73 lakh challans and collected Rs 12.87 crore in fines; 62% challans are yet to be paid. 
 
 Other major offences recorded were unauthorised parking (3.22 lakh challans), signal jumping (1.35 lakh challans), helmetless riding (87,164 challans), violation of one-way (69,077 challans) and failure to produce driving licence (41,087 challans). 
 
 
