NAGPUR: City kids on Sunday learnt the importance of   and got insights into the process of power generation. The   (NFK) Club members visited Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited’s (Mahagenco) Koradi Training Centre and thermal power plant at Koradi. 

 The kids were first taken to Koradi Training Centre within the campus of the power plant and shown a short film on Mahagenco. It was followed by another film on the process of electricity generation.
 
 Breaking down the process of power production, additional executive engineer, Mahagenco, Anil B Onkar said that according to the law of conservation, energy cannot created or destroyed. It can only be converted from one form to another. “The chemical energy of coals is converted into thermal energy at the plant. It eventually produces electricity,” he said.
 
 First, coal is loaded in a pulverizing machine where it is ground. The pulverized coal is then fired into a boiler where it undergoes combustion. The steam produced during the combustion runs a turbine. As the turbine, which is connected to an electricity generator, clocks to 3000 revolutions per minute, power is produced. The steam then passes through a condenser and get converted into water again. The children were also shown models of different machines used in a power plant like blowing mill, generator, turbine and high pressure boiler.
 
 However, production of electricity using coal also leads to pollution. “One unit of electricity, which is sold for Rs4.5, is produced out of 0.78kg coal, 60ml distilled water, 30ml raw water and 2ml oil. Also 1.2kg carbon dioxide and other gases are released into the air per unit of electricity,” Onkar said.
 
 Later, the kids toured Unit 8 and 9 super critical 660MW power plants and saw the power production process. They also got an exclusive opportunity to visit the Unit 8 and 9 control room. 
 
 Stressing efficient use of electricity, public relations officer, Mahagenco, Yashwant Mohite said, “Producing electricity is really hard. It also pollutes the environment. Therefore, it is important to use it carefully. We should also maximize the use of renewable resources to conserve the environment.” Mahagenco supplies fly ash, one of the major by-products of thermal power production, to cement companies for free, he said. 
 
 Koradi chief engineer Pankaj Sapate, chief engineer, training, Madhukar Kundalwar, additional executive engineer Pravin Tirthagirikar and deputy executive engineer Rajesh Thakre were also present.
 
 
