JAIPUR: Kishanganj and Shahabad blocks of Baran district face an acute shortage of water – the predominantly tribal Sahariyas of these areas have lived with very little. Last year, there were malnutrition deaths here. Now, it is clear Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swach Bharat Abhiyan will fall flat. Toilets have been constructed but villagers cannot use them as water remains elusive.

 Under the Swach Bharat Abhiyan, villagers were promised Rs12,000 for the construction of a toilet in each home. A recent survey of Kalakar Colony, a Jaipur slum, by students of Union College, New York, showed that not even one family of the over 150 whose applications for toilet construction had been approved had received the full sum of Rs12,000 under the scheme. Most had got an initial instalment of Rs4,000. Families proceeded to complete construction at their own expense, some incurring more than the Rs12,000 the government promised.
 
 At Gordhanpura, Eklera, Kunda, Hirapur and other villages in Baran district, the toilets are brand new, unlikely to be used. People struggle to get drinking water, often travelling long distances for it – it’s far easier to step out into the fields to relieve oneself than to get water to use the new toilets.
 
 “When we have no water to drink, how can you expect us to throw it down the toilet? The government ought to have thought of this problem. We get water only in winter. For the rest of the year, we struggle for water to drink. The administration has been supplying water in tankers to several villagers for years now, so it is not exactly as if this problem could not have been anticipated,” said Deepchand Khairua, a resident of Pinjana village. About 250 new toilets have been constructed in this village – not one can be used.
 
 Mukesh Ohdi of   said, “Where will we get water for toilets when we struggle for water to drink? Toilets can only be used when the government begins to supply adequate water in the village too.”
 
 “It is the duty of the government to provide safe drinking water and toilets. We are progressing gradually towards making these things available in villages,” said  , development officer of Kishanganj block.
 
 
