MUMBAI: The Supreme Court-appointed   (COA) is set to face another bouncer. This time, the impending 'headache' pertains to the   ( ), the game's cash cow from which they've consciously tried to stay away so far.

 The state associations of the BCCI ­ many of who have voiced their concern over COA going beyond its remit in following the SC order ­ say they “will not be in a position to part with the infrastructure” for the IPL 2017 matches to be conducted over the next two months if they are not paid for the same. The current dispensation at BCCI, however, is convinced that this is merely “another way of creating nuisance”.
 
 State associations are paid Rs 60 lakh per IPL match for parting with the venue and infrastructure. The hosting franchise pays Rs 30 lakh of that sum to the association while the remaining Rs 30 lakh is paid by the BCCI.
 
 Between 2008 and 2011, state associations were paid only by the franchise, which started with Rs 10 lakh first and then went up. In 2012, it was the BCCI's decision to pay an equivalent of that amount to the association.
 
 It is clear that if and when the associations raise this issue officially, it will be left for the   to resolve the matter. What is certain is that if a tournament like the IPL is even touched for individual gains, it will be to the detriment of a thriving industry.
 
 It is now either for the COA to clear that payment to the state associations or wait for these state associations to take up the issue in the Supreme Court on March 20, when the BCCI matter will come up for hearing once again. The current BCCI administration is of the view that “should the state associations obstruct with the sole idea of trying to create trouble, they will not be doing themselves a favour”.
 
 Eight state associations -Mumbai, Bengal, Saurashtra, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi and Hyderabad ­ will play host to the 10th edition of the IPL, to be played from April 5 to May 21.
 
 
 
 
 Majority state associations of the BCCI have now decided to follow Karnataka in “boycotting” the MAK Pataudi Lecture and the BCCI awards ceremony scheduled in Bengaluru on Wednesday.
 
