KOLKATA/Darjeeling: Amid threats against lifting the strike that has crippled the Hills, expelled   leader   held a public meeting near Kurseong railway station on Sunday to speak out against the strike to press for Gorkhaland and appealed to people’s conscience to decide whether to continue suffering the strike or oppose it. 

 “I believe in a peaceful and democratic agitation for Gorkhaland. But with the indefinite strike now entering the fourth month, people — including tea garden and cinchona plantations workers — are fed up. The strike has taken a massive toll. I know Gorkhaland is the sentiment of the people. So I leave it to you, the people of Darjeeling, to take a call on withdrawing the strike,” said the former   central committee leader from Kurseong.
 
 Thapa and Binay Tamang, former chief coordinator of GJM, have distanced themselves from party president Bimal Gurung, who is currently on the run. Police have issued look-out notices against him. Till date, 44 GJM supporters have been arrested on charges of attempt to murder and vandalism. Police did not allow rallies by agitators in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong on Sunday.
 
 The two rebel GJM leaders had attended the bipartite meetings with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 29 and September 12 along with other Hills parties. While they kept the Gorkhaland demand a priority, Thapa and Tamang spoke in favour of lifting the strike to restore normal life in the Hills.
 
 But threats and intimidations against the lifting of strike continue. In Darjeeling town on Sunday, posters issued by “janta” were put up at the Chowk Bazar, warming of dire consequence if the strike was lifted before talks on separate statehood is initiated. The poster also claimed school principals and government and bank employees would have to bear responsibility for any untoward incidents that could occur if their premises were opened. A counter-poster too was found demanding the bandh’s withdrawal. 
 
 “We don’t know whom to believe. We are confused now. Let’s see what happens,” said a trader. Schools continued to be undecided though agitators had permitted special classes for students appearing for board examinations.
 
 GJM Sonada-Pachyang unit president Ramesh Tamang alleged police had ransacked his house on Saturday night. “I was not home when police came and smashed window panes. My family members were also threatened. Perhaps, police are targeting me because I am organizing rallies for Gorkhaland in Sonada,” he said over phone from an undisclosed location. Police refused comment on the allegation.
 
 
