GUWAHATI: Assam Police on Sunday rescued two girls from trafficking at the Tangla railway station in Udalguri district, 100 km from here. Police arrested three men, suspected to be human traffickers. While the state recovers from the floods, human trafficking racketeers have become active in affected areas, targeting vulnerable girls and minors. Around six lakh children have been affected by floods in the state this year. 

 "The three men - identified as Nuruddin Ali, Sahidul Ali and Morom Ali - had befriended the girls over the phone. They were taking the girls to New Delhi with the promise of marriage. The rescued girls were from flood-affected areas of Gohpur in Biswanath district," police sources said.
 
 In 2015, Nobel Peace laureate Kailash Satyarthi had warned of the link between flood-related devastation and human trafficking rackets. Assam is both a source and transit point for human trafficking rackets, mainly due to the destruction caused by floods and its aftermath every year, he had said. The spate of such incidents after the floods this year bears this out.
 
 Two girls from Hojai district were rescued from New Delhi's Shastri Park area on Friday. Investigation revealed that a trafficker, Mujahid alias Surya, had pushed the girls - both minors - into prostitution. Earlier, in June, two girls from Dhubri district were rescued from a prostitution racket in Darjeeling. Police said they were sold for Rs 18,000.
 
 "Each time, after floods, human trafficking networks become highly active in Assam. They engage locals to detect vulnerable targets and lure them with jobs, money or marriage. By the time victims realize they have fallen prey to traffickers, it's too late," Rishi Kant, working with an anti-trafficking NGO Shakti Vahini, said.
 
 Following an appeal by the Assam State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, the state government has sounded an alert and asked state police to step up surveillance to prevent trafficking. All deputy commissioners and superintendents of police have been asked to be on the lookout for the possibility of such threats in flood-affected areas. Anti-trafficking activists have, in the meantime, urged police to tighten vigilance - especially at railway stations and bus stands.
 
 
