HYDERABAD: In view of Dalit scholar   falling on January 17, heavy security was deployed across the expansive   (UoH) campus on Monday. Students were forced to produce their ID cards before being allowed to set foot inside the varsity. The entry of outsiders, including mediapersons, remained barred.

 “The situation is extremely intimidating. Security staff has been asking questions to whoever enters campus. Even our friends and family are not being allowed to into campus without giving a legitimate reason,” said a student of social sciences department.
 
 Rohith, who was from the department of social sciences, committed suicide on campus last year following alleged harassment at the hands of the  . Investigation into the case has come to a standstill owing to a controversy over his caste. While Rohith’s family and friends insist he was a Dalit, the   set up by the ministry of human resource department (MHRD), in its report stated that he was a part of the BC community and that his mother forged the caste certificate to avail reservation.
 
 
  
  
 On Monday, the fight for justice continued as students reclaimed the shopping complex -- where the ‘Velivada’ (Dalit ghetto) was set up as a site of protest. They sang ‘songs of resistance’ and went from class to class raising slogans, even as security staff kept a close vigil on every programme being organised by the students’ community. In the evening, a large number of Rohith supporters participated in a ‘Mashaal Juloos’ to reinforce their struggle for justice.
 
 “On January 17, all those who suffered at the hands of casteist and communal goons will assemble at the Rohith Stupa (in UoH) to remember his legacy and to vow that the fight will go on. On that day, we will gather to let out a collective slogan saying no to caste and communalism,” read a statement issued by the Joint Action Committee for Social Justice that has called for a public gathering on Tuesday.
 
 The varsity administration maintained that the scheduled event had not been green-signalled by them. “No student has sought permission for the programmes being organised by them. As per the high court directive, entry to outsiders continues to be barred and violations will be subject to action taken by the university collectively,” Vipin Srivastava, spokesperson and pro-vice chancellor 1 of UoH told TOI.
 
 In an interim order issued by the Hyderabad high court in April last year, the registrar and the police commissioner of Hyderabad were directed to not allow any political party or association to hold a meeting on the university premises. The ban has since been extended to the media and outsiders too.
 
