INDORE: Shajapur police arrested a gynaecologist for allegedly leaving cotton gauze in a woman’s abdomen after a botched caesarean section when she gave birth to a baby.

 The cotton gauze was detected two months after the surgery when the 40-year-old woman identified as   underwent tests following complaints of acute stomach pain and frequent vomiting.
 
 While the gauze was finally removed at an Indore hospital in February, the woman remained under constant pain as her large intestine was removed and an opening was made in her lower abdomen to drain body waste.
 
 The condition of the victim is such that her four-month-old child could not be given mothers' feed because of the infection.
 
 Preeti Nema, a resident of  , underwent a caesarean section at government hospital on December 27, 2016. It was performed by Dr  .
 
 Soon after, she started having acute pain in stomach with bouts of vomiting. “The cotton gauze was detected in her stomach after she underwent ultrasound and CT scan,” said Vishal Nema, the woman’s brother-in-law and an English teacher in Shujalpur.
 
 Doctors in Indore said that an infection in her stomach was detected as the gynecologist had left cotton gauze inside.
 
 Preeti had to undergo a major surgery to prevent spreading of infection in her body. Her large intestine along with the 20x19 cm gauze was removed from the body. The family lodged a complaint with the police and after running from pillar to post, the accused was finally arrested on Saturday.
 
 “We could not register a case without any medical reports so I wrote to the medical board and requested them to provide details about the case after investigation. Since, Asharani Jain is class I doctor, a committee of senior doctors was formed at MYH and the case was investigated,” SP Monika Shukla told TOI. 
 
 The committee provided Shukla with a detailed medical report following which a case under section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others and 267 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) was registered against the accused doctor.
 
 “She was arrested and produced before the court but she fell unconscious on the way. She was admitted to Shujalpur hospital from where she was referred to Shajapur hospital,” said Shukla. 
 
 Preeti’s husband is a labourer. Her elder son has left studies to look after her. 
 
