When was the last time you relished a truly lovely night of peaceful sleep? When was the last time you woke up feeling refreshed and rejuvenated? Sleep is a mysterious physical process that is absolutely essential to good health. We have not been "taught" to sleep. Every member of the animal kingdom has essential need for sleep.

 Indians are suffering from sleep issue which is proven by the number of sleep aids medications getting popular in the market. Instead of focusing on the root cause of sleep disturbances, we just get settled with medicated sleep, which at best gives us poor quality sleep and is frequently supplemented by a bunch of side effects. Hormonal Balance of our body can affect quality and quantity of sleep. Sleep disorders can lead to various hormonal imbalances in our body.
 
  can be the principal cause for why you have trouble sleeping. Sleep loss may have adverse effects on endocrine function and metabolism. As a child, sleep wasn't even given a second thought because it came so naturally. However, as we grow old, the hormone balance since childhood, which kept us sleeping soundly, declines. Rectifying hormonal imbalance could be beneficial in getting back into a regular pattern of sleep. Normally in forties, ovaries of women start producing reduced levels of   estrogen and progesterone. Low progesterone is frequently a culprit behind insomnia and anxiety whereas estrogen deficiency can cause sleep disturbances mainly due to night, sweats and hot flashes. In men, testosterone is an important hormone which is responsible for the quality of sleep. Less the sleep a man gets, the lower his testosterone levels become. It’s a vicious cycle. Low testosterone can also play a role in sleep apnoea and hence sleep disturbances. Thyroid hormone imbalance can also cause significant sleep disturbances. Sleep apnoea problem can be due to hormonal disturbances.
 
 So, if you're wondering how to get sound sleep, before you take that sleeping pill, try balancing your hormones first as per your physician’s advice. Apart from sleeping soundly once again, improving your hormone balance can break those annoying hot flashes, night sweats, food cravings, mood swings and may even offer you better energy during the day.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
