HYDERABAD: Along with an increasing number of private cars and motorbikes, a sizeable count of public vehicles too -auto-rickshaws and cabs in particular -have been driving into Hyderabad's streets over the last few years.

 Data available with the Regional Transport Authority show that a staggering 26,000 autos have been added to the city's roads in the last three years. In addition, 10,000 cabs and 1,400   have also made their on to the streets.
 
 The numbers, officials say , are indicative of the heavy dependency on public modes of transportation among Hyderabad's commuters.Their most preferred choice of transport in recent times, however, is the  . And that's evident from the official num bers. While only 700 odd cabs were added to the city's roads in 2014, the number shot up to a high 5,700 in 2016. Considering the rising demand, officials say , the figure could rise considerably by the end of the year.
 
 Urban commuters confess to cabs turning into the most convenient option, of late, even as many say that they are doubtful about switching over to the metro, once it chugs in.
 
 “Even if we get the metro connectivity about 4 kms from my house in Madinaguda, we can't be completely depended on it as it will only ferry us from one station to another. From there, we have to again take an   or taxi. Instead, it would be better if take a cab in the first place itself,“ said Meera Sharma, a software developer.
 
 That cab aggregators are increasingly opting for competitive prices -apart from rolling out sharing facilities has only further drawn more people towards the easy-onthe-pocket option. Many have even shunned autos and MMTS trains to opt for cabs instead. “I am able to travel a distance of 23 kms for just Rs 150, courtesy the share option. Also, I am picked up from my doorstep and dropped at my exact location. This new arrangement makes even autos look like an unattractive option to depend on,“ said Shashank J, a commuter.
 
 Metro or no metro, experts are certain that the demand for public modes of transport will continue to see a northward movement in the future. “There are dozens of commuters who travel long distances crisscrossing the city each day to reach their workplaces. Hence, the demand for all modes of transportationespecially easy modes of commute with endto-end connectively will only rise further,“ said Prof B N Bhanumurthy , a transportation expert.
 
