KOLKATA: Team India have already won the   and the final match at the   is just a formality now. But that’s only on paper. Known as the  , the city has lived upto its name and scrambled for tickets of the last match, no matter how the series is stacked up. 

 On a sweaty Friday afternoon, when the temperature was clocking around 27°C, hundreds of cricket-crazy fans stood in queues in front of the   counters to book their seats. Students, traders, young professionals — the motley mix included people from every sphere of the society. By 2pm, the counters selling Rs 500 and Rs 1000 tickets had closed down and by evening, even those selling Rs 1500 tickets refused to sell more than three tickets to one person.
 
 Bookmyshow, the authorized website selling 60% of the tickets, had also stopped the sale of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 tickets. By evening, only tickets of K block were available but that too only three tickets per head.
 
 “There was a good response of online ticket sales even before the start of the series. And after India won the first match, the sales peaked. After Thursday’s match, there was a surge of people rushing in to buy tickets,” said a CAB official.
 
 But what prompted so many people to turn up despite Sunday’s match being an inconsequential one? “This is India’s last one-day match before Champions Trophy in June. I am sure they will go all out in this match as well. Every fan on the stands would cheer India to go for a whitewash,” said Vikas Sharma, a chartered accountant and an avid cricket enthusiast.
 
 A straw poll by TOI threw up some interesting star preferences. A large part of the Eden Gardens would root for Virat Kohli while there is another section who are rushing to the field to catch   and Mahendra Singh Dhoni in action. “Both Yuvraj and Dhoni are in great form. Last night, they created history. If any of them play even a part of how they played on Thursday, it would be enough to make my day,” said Avik Sengupta, who idolizes Yuvraj from his early days.
 
 Among the crowd were several English fans too who vowed to continue to support their team. “India has proved to be a far superior team in the test matches but in the ODIs, our team has given a great fight. Morgan had almost won us the match last night and that could have made the Sunday tie extremely interesting. But I am sure England would give their 100% in the final match to end the series on a positive note,” said Matthew Leidecker, who is in Kolkata since August last year accompanying his wife who is a practicing doctor at Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute.
 
 
