LAMBI(MUKTSAR): When people talk politics in Punjab's hot seat of Lambi and surrounding areas, they often use horses as a metaphor. The horse that will bring prosperity will win on February 4, people will tell you as you mill around in the villages asking them about the mood ahead of the February 4 voting. Others will tell you that they will vote for the 'Lambi race da ghoda' with a smile.There is a reason for this fascination with horses. Muktsar district to which Lambi constituency belongs, has 390 stud farms with more than 4,500 horses of various breeds which take part in livestock fairs. Lambi alone has 580 horses, including 32 that belong to Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal's stable. Ironbrush and Haseena from Ireland are his prized possessions.

 Former chief minister H S Brar has been credited with bringing the first stud farm here. Brar's daughter-in-law, who is the Congress candidate and sitting Muktsar MLA, Karan Kaur Brar, runs the farm. She has pegged her financial assets at Rs 119 crore in the affidavit filed before the Election Commission this time.
 
 Sukhbir, on the other hand, keeps his equines on a two acre-plus stable.
 
 The 70-inch-tall male horse, Ironbrush, is imported from Ireland. Ravinder, a resident of Lam bi says, “Gone are the days when rich and mighty men won races with their horses. Landlords here are powerful but in the elections, we are their horses on whom they have to bet heavily. We will carefully elect our MLAs and government.“
 
 Every year in January , more than 1,000 landlord farmers bring their horses to compete for races in Muktsar. “The earning from horses is limited to breeding and participation in fairs at Muktsar, Pushkar, Sirsa, Delhi and derby races. Some are also sold to the mounted police. Most landlords keep them as sign of prosperity . Government needs to organise more events and riding clubs to encourage more livelihood sources,“ says  , farmer in Lambi who also keeps horses.
 
 Many here still swear by chief minister   who is taking on former AAP MLA from   and Punjab's chief ministerial candidate Captain   here. But Jarnail and Amarinder too have their set of followers, making it a tough fight for all of them.
 
 Every morning, Gurwinder Singh, Sanjam Dhillon and Raja in Channu and Lalbai villages of Lambi constituency religiously feed 3 kg hay and pellet mixes to their horses. In the afternoon, their banter shifts to the polls and the possible winner at Lambi.
 
 “Badal saab brought 24x7 power supply , a girl's school, a world-class stadium here. He has brought prosperity . We all benefit from it. So how can we forget that?“ asks Amritpal, a Lambi resident.
 
 But Gurmeet Raria of Gurusar village heaps praises on AAP . “For years, we have only seen big roads, street lights, palm trees and horses trotting here. This time we will sweep Lambi clean with a broom,“ he says. Not too far from them, Congress workers are cheering Amarinder's entry into Lambi but they believe the fight is tough due to late announcement.
 
