NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ambitious move to provide two dustbins each to 5.5 lakh property holders for the implementation of the   is being opposed by elected representatives. 

  on Friday submitted a memorandum to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal asking why   should spend Rs 14 lakh on the scheme. He said that at a time when the NMC is not able to implement the 24X7  , it should not be spending the taxpayers’ money on the dustbin project.
 
 “Instead, the NMC should spend the fund for strengthening the sanitation department,” he said.
 
 Pethe also demanded that the retaining wall of Nag River, which was damaged at many places, be repaired so as to prevent the city’s signature river from getting polluted .
 
 Congress corporator Manoj Sangole wanted to know who will purchase the dustbins and how they will be distributed. 
 
 Meanwhile, the standing committee, in its meeting on May 15, is set to consider a proposal to revise payment rates to garbage operator Kanak Resources. 
 
 The agency had first quoted a rate of Rs 1,606.69 per ton on the grounds that it had increased the wages of its employees following labour department orders. Then it agreed to do the job at the rate of Rs 1,306.87 per ton. 
 
 The standing committee on Friday gave its nod to the civic administration’s proposal to hike the existing rates of advertisement tax by 25%. The proposal will now be tabled before the general body. The rates of outdoor advertisements are being revised after 2008-2009. 
 
 The NMC will now appoint security guards recognised by the collectorate on a pilot basis for six months. NMC had been paying Rs 23,911 a month to a private guard, whereas the rate of government guards is Rs 21,975. NMC will save Rs 5,40,120 a month.
 
 A project management consultant for stormwater network in Hudkeshwar and Narsala area will also be appointed. Other proposals which too were cleared include entrusting Ramkrishna Math for maintenance of Swami Vivekanand memorial at Ambazari overflow point. 
 
