THEVARA-PERANDOOR CANAL: People residing along the canal as well as   on its banks who   into the canal are equally responsible for the   of affairs. Apart from plastic and food waste it is pointed out that sewage also directly discharged into the canal.

 "Pungent smell emits from the waters and it is a breeding ground for mosquitoes. During rainy season water overflows from the canal and enters shops located along the banks," said an employee of a major footwear showroom at Kaloor.
 
 Despite repeated complaints the Kochi corporation, which is bound to take up cleaning activities and initiate action against those dumping waste, remains lethargic. "The condition of the canal became worse during the last four years. There is no regular cleaning work taking place," said an employee of a textile showroom.
 
 Rameswaram Canal or Kalvathy Canal: The 6.4 km long   is strewn with non-biodegradable waste which include water bottles, plastic covers and construction debris. 
 
 K M Hussain, a resident of Fort Kochi and the general secretary of resident apex council Ernakulam said the canal popularly known as the Rameswaram canal or Boundary canal was under the ambit of the irrigation department. "The department is not concerned about keeping the canal clean. Former MLA Ebrahimkunju had set aside Rs 2.5 crore from the MLA's local development fund for carrying out cleaning works, and 90% of the canal was cleaned using the fund. However, due to lack of proper maintenance the condition of the canal got worse. This is mainly because of improper waste management strategies," he said.
 
 Edappally Canal: The canal is choking under water hyacinth, and the pungent smell emitting from it spread the entire region. Waste from nearby hospitals, restaurants and residences is dumped into the canal. 
 
 Commercial complexes and housing complexes which do not have sewage treatment facility directly discharges the waste into the canal. Abattoirs also dump meat waste into the canal.
 
 During the tenure of the previous UDF government the canal was cleaned three times. "It is just a waste of money as there is no systematic method to clean the canal and maintain it. It would be better to build embankments on both sides canal to prevent waste dumping," said an auto driver.
 
