JAIPUR:   in the state are peeved the way   has been handling the prickly issue of their  . They alleged callousness of higher ups for dwindling away their chances of growth. 

 After a controversial decision of the government surfaced where it promoted two  , not entitled for the elevation, anger in the bureaucracy has been simmering. Senior officials claim that government took unconstitutional step by promoting them but is shying away from giving due rights to the officials who are eligible to be promoted. 
 
 “All the states in the country except Maharashtra have made 1985 batch IAS officers as   (ACS). Eleven states have even promoted the officers of 1986 batch to that rank and pay scale. But in Rajasthan, with same batch and service years serving at junior positions,” said an official.
 
 TOI learnt that despite increase in number of ACS posts to 13 this year, Rajasthan already have 12 officers posted at that rank. It will require at least five of them to superannuate to give promotion to 1985 batch. 
 
 Officials have also alleged that service rules have become a mockery. They pointed that minimum 25 years of service is required to reach to principal secretary which is equivalent to additional director general (ADG) rank in police. 
 
 However, IPS officers Sanjay Agrawal (Police Commissioner, Jaipur) and Hemant Priyadarshy were elevated from the rank of IG to ADG on January 2, though they have not completed service of 25 years. 
 
 “There are only two services, IAS and Indian Foreign Services (IFS) where promotions are time bound. For rest others it happens on the number of vacancies. Rajasthan has a peculiar situation where these rules has been buried under the carpet” said other senior official. 
 
 Rajasthan government is also facing allegation of not permitting empanelled officers to go on deputation at Centre. Over the past one year several such requests have been denied. Sources claim that officials are also being discouraged for applying to go on study leave of for management courses. 
 
 “Two collectors were called for interview for the post of director in PMO in 2016. Both of them were asked to stay put at their districts. About 8-10 officials at different ranks want to go on deputation. None of them are allowed even though they have been empanelled for that rank,” added the official.
 
