NAGPUR:  , 29, a medical representative, was arrested on Tuesday by   for   and images to many women including an IT engineer through WhatsApp using different mobile handsets belonging to strangers. The   came to an end after a woman, actually a relative of the culprit, decided to approach the cops.

 Mahalaxme, whose wife is pregnant, had a unique modus operandi of using someone else’s mobile phone to   and images randomly to any woman whose profile and number he came across. A native of Chandrapur, Mahalaxme’s mother is a retired teacher and wife works as a business correspondent with a nationalized bank. 
 
 Initially, he would send messages from a mobile phone he had found on Khadgaon road. The phone belonged to a woman whose boyfriend had gifted the handset to her. After losing it, the woman refrained from approaching cops fearing her relation would be exposed. Mahalaxme started misusing the phone to send messages. 
 
 Sources in Ajni police claimed that Mahalaxme would send images of his private parts, along with messages, to different women. As there was no balance left for voice calling, Mahalaxme avoided personal interaction but used the available free data to send messages through social media apps. 
 
 Police said Mahalaxme had likely sent messages to around eight women who either blocked or ignored him. A former colleague’s wife too was targeted. Around four such women have now agreed to help Ajni police.
 
 Ajni police had registered an offence against an unidentified person in December last year for sexual harassment and also invoked IT Act for sending obscene messages after the IT engineer emerged as one of the victims. The cops were initially baffled by the outcome of the call detail record and tower locations of the SIM cards and IMEI number of the handset. They belonged to different persons who were verified but nothing turned out to be innocent. 
 
 Under Senior PI Shailesh Sankhe, the detection branch wing comprising Tarasingh Jadhav, Prashant Sonulkar, Manoj Tekam and others led by Asst PI Sandeep Dhobe started probing the case through various angles. The cops had remained clueless until Mahalaxme made a mistake of using a SIM card in his personal handset to send messages. 
 
 Then it was not difficult for the police to zero in on Mahalaxme at his home at Khadgaon road. “We would now try to ascertain from where he procured the phones and SIMs that he would use for sending messages,” said an officer. 
 
 Mahalaxme on Wednesday was produced before a court that remanded him in police custody for a day.
 
