KOZHIKODE: At a time when cow was making headlines for wrong reasons across the country, the   ( ) at Pookode in Wayanad managed to make a million bucks by selling value-added products made out of urine of desi cows and other cow-derivatives last fiscal. 

 The Instructional Livestock Farm Complex (ILFC) of the varsity has sold over 1,000 litres of branded ‘panchagavya’ a concoction of   mixed with milk, curd, ghee and   last year alone. 
 
 The total revenue earned by ILFC from sale of value-added bovine byproducts made using cow urine and dung stood at around Rs 10 lakh in 2016-17. Also, exploiting the demand for desi cow urine for therapeutic purposes in ayurveda, the varsity is monthly selling an average of 5,000 litres of cow urine with Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala being the major buyer. KVASU is selling desi cow urine at a rate of Rs 7.5 per litre in bulk quantities and Rs 10/ litre for retail sales. 
 
 The branded panchagavya sold by KVASU in packs of 500ml, 1 litre and 2 litre at a price of Rs 120 per litre is used as bio fertilizer and has become popular, especially among organic farmers. Apart from the five cow derivatives, fruits like banana are also added in the preparation of the fermented product used in agriculture. ILFC has also sold 250 tonnes of raw cow dung during the last fiscal.
 
 “We are seeing an increase in demands for our bovine byproducts, including the branded panchagavya. Its sale has touched one thousand litres in the last one and a half years since its launch. Currently we are selling the produce through three outlets,” Dr Senthil Murugan, head-in-charge, ILFC said.
 
 The farm complex has around 150 bovines, majority of which are of indigenous cow varieties native to the state.
 
 Dr T P Sethumadhavan, director (entrepreneurship), KVASU, said that the popularity of organic farming has helped boost the demand for panchagavya derived from indigenous breeds like Vechur.
 
 “There is a growing trend globally towards having a holistic approach to health and healing which has increased the demand for value-added bovine byproducts like panchagavya. Also, cow urine is an ingredient in many ayurvedic medicines. The varsity is undertaking research to scientifically validate the perceived benefits of products like cow urine,” he said.
 
 He added that the opening up of new markets for such value-added byproducts would help dairy farmers have an additional revenue stream and attain break-even faster.
 
 Union minister of state for ayush Shripad Yasso Naik had informed Parliament that Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) was conducting research on cow urine distillate to determine its anti-oxidant and other properties.
 
 
