Surat: Residents in the Diamond City have up their ante against the Western Railway (WR) authorities for allegedly taking biased decision to double platform ticket rates from Rs 10 to Rs 20. Surprisingly, in a reply to RTI activist Rajesh Modi, divisional railway manager (DRM) of WR, Mukul Jain, gave excuse that “Surat is special and we wish to make it a model station. During summer rush, station is at time so crowded that a mishap can occur any time.”  Jain further added, “It is only Surat where the platform tickets have increased. It is because anything and everything has to start from somewhere. No travelling passenger will be affected. The idea is to lessen the crowd coming to receive and drop the passengers. Why don’t you complain about airports where charges are over Rs 100. For an occasional visit to the station, may be two times a month, additional Rs 10 is no big deal.”  Few days ago, member of passenger service committee (PSC) of ministry of railway, Rakesh Shah, had opposed the decision of the WR to hike the platform ticket rate from Rs 10 to Rs 20, effective from April 1, and had called for an immediate roll back.  Shah had suggested a list of solutions to control the crowd on the railway platforms during the peak train hours.  In his letter to the DRM, Shah pointed out that the increase in railway ticket is not the solution to de-congested the railway platforms from the unwanted people. However, the WR must seriously think of running few trains including Tapti Ganga Express, Bhagalpur Express, Surat-Puri Express and all trains going towards Tapti line from Udhana stations, instead of Surat. Also, the WR should consider giving stoppage to Ahmedabad-Puri express at Udhana.  Shah stated that the diamond city has the highest migrant population and that the city also gets floating population due to the presence of the country’s largest textile industry. The migrant population is concentrated in the areas like Limbayat, Udhana, Bhestan, Pandesara, Dindoli etc., which are close to the Udhana railway station.  Talking to TOI, Rajesh Modi said, “It’s a discrimination on the part of the WR in the name of developing model railway station at Surat. If the WR has to increase the platform ticket fares, it has to be across the board. Why only the people of Surat are being penalized?”