PUNE: Campaigning for the   can include the use of  , and candidates can spend a maximum of Rs5 lakh from their own campaign war chests, said  .

 Social media engagement can include WhatsApp messages, Facebook pages, Twitter handles and other forms, or even mass text messages.
 
 Lending clarity to the use of social media in campaigning, Sahariya told TOI that social media expenditure will now come under campaign expenditure, the details of which will have to be provided by the candidate, for each corporation. 
 
 “While there will not be any restriction on the use of social media and applications, the candidates will have to state the cost incurred in their details of expenses. A district-level squad from the technical team will keep a check on the use,” said the officials. 
 
 Also, a district-level squad, headed by the collector and municipal commissioners, will ensure the candidate provides these details in their daily expenses.
 
 “The cost incurred for the use of social media will have to be shown in the   which will have a cap of Rs5 lakh for each candidate in A and A+ corporations, such as Mumbai and Pune,” stated an election official.
 
 It has been capped at Rs4 lakh and Rs3 lakh for smaller corporations. 
 
 The appointment of professional bloggers, or agencies to amplify messages, or people running the Facebook page of a candidate, will all be monitored under this directive. 
 
 The squad will tabs on whether the candidate is using social media, and whether any professional has been hired to operate it, what is the cost incurred for the same and whether an agency has been deployed for sending out text messages to voters.
 
 If there is any misuse, the commission has the discretion to report the matter to the police for further investigation. 
 
 State election officials said the campaign expenditure includes the cost incurred by the candidate, their relatives, friends and by the party in their constituency. The authorities will also keep an eye on the use of illicit liquor and unaccounted money as inducements to woo voters. For this purpose, the commission has roped in various departments — income tax, excise and various banks.
 
