The Class XI student of National Public School, Indirangar, made it to   (5,765 metres), which is on the rim of the crater, despite terrible weather conditions.
Mehul’s father,  , says, “My wife and I have been taking him for altitude climbs to the   every year since he was a three-year-old, mostly on our backs. So, he has got a flair for the outdoors. I had climbed Kilimanjaro in 2014, but did not take Mehul along even though he wanted to come. I guess he became determined to do it when we became the first of the season to cross a snowed-out Stok-la pass (4,900 m), Ladakh, in May 2015. Then, 2-3 months ago, he said that we should do the Kilimanjaro trek during the Christmas break, because he would be in Class XII next year, and get busy with studies. I was a little apprehensive because Christmas is not a good time as the weather is horrendous. And it was, with rain and snow making the climb more difficult.”
 The father and son duo took a longer route — eight days — to acclimatize with the weather and altitude. As they climbed higher, the rain turned to sleet, and then became snow. They reached the base camp (4,900 m) around noon on December 30, and started their climb to Stella Point at midnight. “It was snowing so heavily that you could hardly see your hands. Plus, the steep slippery surface and complete lack of oxygen made things worse. I had to abort the climb at 2 am at around 5,200 m due to high-altitude sickness. I asked Mehul if he wanted to continue the climb and he said, ‘I want to reach the top.’ He continued through the night despite heavy snow, and finally made it to the top around 8.30 am. I was worried because there was no communication with him till he came back, and I had no idea whether he made it or not,” Ramaswami adds.
 Mehul’s mother, Vibha, adds, “Every time he was tired during a trek, Mehul would sit in the chin-mudra pose, take deep breaths, meditate and chant a few times. He even told his dad to do the same. I was surprised, because I have never seen him do it at home.”
 Mehul says, “To stay focused — I would count my steps in 100s and then play ‘Name, Place, Animal, Thing’ in my mind, in which the name had to be a football players name. It was tiring — I walked from midnight till 5 pm the next day — but it was an experience of a lifetime. I regret not making it to Uhuru Peak, though, because of the weather.”
 
