PANAJI: This is the fourth time   is forming the government in Goa. Except in 2012, when it got a clear mandate of 21 seats in the House of 40, on all three other occasions, it was   who with his astute skills of machination did the BJP proud.

 In the 1999 assembly polls, BJP had won 10 seats and   won 21. Within six months, there was a split in the Congress leading to formation of a coalition government of BJP and Congress’ splinter group with Francisco Sardinha as the CM. When he was on an official tour abroad in October 2000, BJP pulled the rug and formed the government on October 24, 2000, with Manohar Parrikar as the CM and 11 other ‘defectors’, which included MLAs with disparate backgrounds.
 
 During that time, under the anti-defection law, one-third of a legislative group could legally switch sides. This law was changed later making it mandatory for the MLA to resign the membership of the assembly to join another party. Done during the NDA government, this helped the BJP government to have some stability.
 
 In 2001, Parrikar, who was seen as a crusader against corruption, had got three Congress leaders who were perceived as corrupt arrested - Mauvin Godinho, Dayanand Narvekar and Somnath Zuwarkar for alleged “scams”.
 
 When there were attempts to dislodge the government, Parrikar, who was then riding high, dissolved the House in February 2002 when the assembly had completed just half the term.
 
 In the ensuing 2002 polls, BJP could muster only 17 seats when the party was “confident of 24 seats. Congress had got 16.
 
 As there were more of their like-minded MLAs elected to the “House, Congress had an opportunity to take letters of support from them including Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco, both of United Goans Democratic party (UGDP) and a few others including independents, to form the next government.
 
 With factionalism coming to the fore, there was no unanimity among the Congress MLAs to elect their CM candidate. As the Congress was taking time to decide on their   leader, Parrikar left no opportunity to approach the same persons who held the key to form the new government. In no time, he managed to muster the required number by giving ministership to Monserrate, Pacheco and Pandurang Madkaikar of MGP.
 
 Few months later, Monserrate and Madkaikar were admitted into the party fold, but trouble started soon after Goa first hosted the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) in 2004. Parrikar couldn’t handle the dissension in the party. And by February 2005, there was a major revolt against Parrikar’s leadership leading to the collapse of the government. It only highlighted that in both the terms, stability eluded the BJP.
 
 Political analysts say that Parrikar, once again, proved his craftsmanship in cobbling up alliance governments over Saturday and Sunday. He was in touch with some possible winners before the counting of the February 4 polls. While the BJP tally fell short of the expected numbers, Parrikar was again quick to stitch an alliance, leaving the Congress which is the single-largest party and in the best position to form the government, dumbfounded and grounded. While the Congress couldn’t decide on their CM candidate, Parrikar completed the process of binding a coalition with the key players – MGP, Goa Forward and independents – with surgical precision on Sunday.
 
 
