PATNA: Two days after Times Now expose on the purchase of benami farmhouse by   chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest daughter and   Misa Bharti in Bijwasan in south Delhi, Bihar’s former deputy CM   on Saturday raised questions over Misa’s source of income and demanded a probe into the matter by   (ED).

 
  
 
 Reacting to the “clarification” of Misa’s husband Shailesh Kumar on Friday that the property was purchased at the Minimum Value Register or circle rate of the area, Modi said the money for purchasing the farmhouse was raised through fraudulent trade of shares of Mishail Packers and Printer Private Ltd of Misa.
 
 Furnishing supportive documents, Modi said Misa sold shares of her Mishail Packers at the rate of Rs 100 in 2008 to four “shell firms” three years after her firm was closed, and purchased the same shares again at the rate of Rs 10 per share 11 months later. The “profit” thus generated was used to purchase the farmhouse in Bijwasan, he added.
 
 “Why will any firm purchase shares of a closed firm and then sell them again at nominal prices? The whole idea was to turn the black money generated through the fodder scam by Lalu into white,” Modi said at a presser held at the BJP state headquarters on Beer Chand Patel Marg in Patna.
 
 Times Now on Thursday revealed a complex web of shady transactions by Lalu’s family members to purchase expensive property at throwaway rates by buying and selling shares in dubious front companies.
 
 Documents with Times Now showed that Misa and her spouse Shailesh acquired a farmhouse at Bijwasan, near the IGI airport, where the rich and influential own properties, for a mere Rs 1.41 crore. The couple also acquired a farmhouse at Sainik Farms through an intriguing transaction with the owner.
 
 The Times Now report stated that V K Jain and S K Jain, the entry operators who were arrested in March this year as part of government crackdown on black money, had also purchased Mishail Packers’ shares from Misa.
 
 Stating that the ED has registered a case of money laundering using shell companies against the Jain brothers, Modi demanded that the issue of involvement of their firm Shalini Holdings Limited in purchase of shares of Misa’s firm should also be probed along with the case of money laundering.
 
 Responding to the allegations made by Modi, RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said the documents furnished by Modi were already available in the public domain. 
 
 “Modi has tried to fabricate financial forgery by adding his own assumptions to the transactions done more than 10 years ago. Similar transactions done by top leadership in BJP are sacred, but false allegations are being made against us only to gain political mileage,” Jha said. 
 
 
