MANGALURU: The  , an organization of Muslim youths, has started a novel campaign of collecting   from recently married couples to help the poor. 

 It is quite common for couples to store away wedding clothes and not use them after a few months or a year. Considering this, the trust decided to place clothes collection boxes at masjids, shopping malls and other places in and around  . 
 
 Though the main aim is to inspire newly wedded couples to donate, the trust also pleads with others to donate clothes for the poor. The trust, formed through a WhatsApp group, plans to expand this initiative to all districts of the state to help the economically weaker sections. 
 
 Trust president Ismail Kana told TOI the objective is to help the poor by donating collected clothes. “Most couples do not use their wedding clothes after wearing it for two or three times. They should donate such clothes to the poor. I sought the cooperation of friends through social media networks. As a result, the Zawaj Charitable Trust was formed on February 28 after a meeting at Surathkal,” he said.
 
 Initially, the trust collected clothes directly from donors. Now, it plans to place clothes collection boxes at all major masjid premises, Forum Fiza Mall, City Centre Mall, Thokkotu, Moodbidri, Surathkal and other towns. “We commenced the initiative by placing a clothes collection box in front of the Kutchi Memon Masjid at Bunder in the city on Monday,” Ismail said adding that the collected clothes will be distributed to the poor during Ramzan.
 
 The trust also plans to extend financial support to marriages in poor families. “We have already distributed two sarees each to 39 brides and gifted a suit to a groom. With this new initiative of clothes collection, we expect more people to support us,” he added. 
 
 Trust convener Sameeruddin Padubettu said, “We’ll also collect used clothes from donors directly and distribute them among the poor and needy. Donors may contact 9686584868 or 9164435578 to hand over clothes to the trust.”
 
 
