Gurdaspur : The SAD-BJP on Tuesday staged a show of strength at Gurdaspur in support of their joint candidate Swaran Salaria. Majority of leaders from both parties, including late MP Vinod Khanna’s wife Kavita, were present on the occasion. 

 While addressing a gathering, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described Salaria as his friend and asked him to provide job to at least 1,000 youth from Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency. Criticizing the Congress government in Punjab, Sukhbir said development had come to a stand still since the party came to power in the state.
 
 Calling Sukhbir Badal as “babbar sher” (lion) and Sucha Singh Langha as “majhae da asli gernail” (real general of majha), Salaria urged the people to vote in his support .
 
 Former cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia, too, addressed the gathering. Taking pot-shots at Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, the former minister said that Sidhu was in the habit of hopping from one party to another.
 
 While the Akalis had ensured presence of their leadership at the rally, as Sukhbir began his address, many people got up and started leaving.
 
 On the other hand, Congress nominee Sunil Jakhar took up national issues during his public rally in the constituency. While addressing a gathering at Bhoa, he said Union finance minister Arun Jaitley should to give clarification on the impact of demonetization. “Let him come and tell the people about those who had benefited from demonetization,” he said, adding that only millionaires would be able to celebrate Diwali this year.
 
 He also claimed that the Union government had earned Rs 9 lakh crore in three years due to decrease in fuel prices in the international market. Focusing on Bhoa, he cited poor condition of roads in the area to highlight lack of development under the erstwhile Badal regime. “Badals had spent crores on building a 7-star hotel while ignoring basic development needs of Punjab,” he alleged, adding that the state required innovative agriculture techniques that the Amarinder Singh’s government would provide.
 
 Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, upped his campaign in the constituency. While addressing a rally in support of party candidate Suresh Khajuria at Gurdaspur, AAP state president Bhagwant Singh alleged that leaders of SAD-BJP combine as well as the Congress were in the habit of telling lies and making false promises. “Amarinder Singh had promised a job in every home, smart phones and complete loan waiver for farmers, but nothing of the sorts has happened and the BJP had given ticket to a rich industrialist, who lived in Mumbai,” he said.
 
 
