India’s beloved author from the hills,   is one of the 10 celebrity authors for  . Mr   was in New Delhi for the launch of his much-awaited   ‘Lone Fox Dancing’. We caught up with the 83-year-old author for a candid chat where he discussed about  ,   and the art of writing while often sharing memories of the good old days. Excerpts from the interview:

 
 There was Uncle Ken of mine about whom I wrote a lot of stories. I can always write stories about uncles and aunts and distant relatives, they have to be distant though otherwise you’ll be in trouble (laughs)! Or teachers or eccentric people, I guess there are so many!
 
 
 I am a compulsive writer. So if two-three days go by, then I would want to write something. That’s why a notebook or a journal is helpful in that sense...
 
 I can just write about anything. Like the other day, I had nothing much to write about. There was a fly which had come and it was buzzing around the window pane, trying to get out. And every time I opened the window, since I don’t kill things, it would go out but then it would find its way through another! So I was getting a little angry and desperate that I must kill that fly but then I would hold myself back. And I wrote this whole incident down into three pages (laughs)... and named it as ‘The fly on the window pane’! I finally got rid of it and closed the window, just to notice the buzzing sound coming from somewhere again. I noticed there were three flies! It had brought its friends too! (laughs)
 
 
 Yes, it wasn’t a great market earlier too. I mean publishers won’t take short stories much. After 'The Room on the Roof’ I wrote many short stories but they wouldn’t publish the collection of short stories. They would say that short stories didn’t sell; novels did and were more successful. So you had to be very well established or popular in order to get a story collection published.
 
 I wrote stories for magazines in those days, but the number of magazines who published short stories has diminished over the years. There were quite a few back in the 1940s and 50s, both here and abroad, but there are hardly any left now. And they do publish stories of their own type. Like the New Yorker, for instance, would publish two-three stories every month in their magazine but you would call them ‘New Yorker stories’ as they were in their own in-house style. Or say they would publish humour stories but then those would be a particular type of humour. And so they were published by only smaller magazines or magazines of university press which perhaps gave more variety. I remember there were a couple of London papers who would take up short stories in their evening news, back in the 50s and 60s. But again, the stories had to be let’s say 800-900 words long, it had to be light-punchy, sort of O. Henry-type of stories. So it didn’t give you much scope for literary flourishes.
 
 
 I have always discouraged young writers from self-publishing by which I mean, going to a vanity publisher and spending your hard earned savings, say some two-three lakhs, and getting your book printed. It’s not published, it’s printed! They’ll print the book for you and deliver 500 copies to you. But then what do you do with them? You give them away to your friends because that publisher has been paid, he has made his money, he is not going to sell the book or distribute it for you, put it in the book shops or make it available anywhere! You are limited to what you can do and selling your own book. So you can’t go and stand on the street to sell it... although, I know people who have done that! Back in the old days in London there was a poet I knew, he would publish little booklets of poetry and he would actually go and sell it on the streets!
 
 It can be frustrating and discouraging in a way. It is best to look for an established publisher who would give you a royalty because I have always felt that you must be paid, you must get something for your work! Of course it would take time to find a good publisher, but if your work is good, if you are persistent you will find one sooner or later and maybe even write a bestseller! 
 
 But self-publishing is self defeating in my opinion. Very rarely there have been cases that you self-publish a book and it does well. 
 
 
 Yes! Not necessarily write short stories but write essays or articles or keep a journal too. I keep a journal, like many writers do. It helps in writing a story as you can use an incident from the journal and put in your story.
 
 It's interesting to know there are thousands of would be writers or young people, who could be doing other things, who do write short stories or take part in these story competitions. It's a healthy sign. It means if they are writing stories they would also be reading them.
 
 
 I have come across many stories where there are good ideas, but unfortunately they are poorly written and I think it is all important that if you are going to write permanently that you work on your language and style, on respecting the language in which you write. So that is one. You should also first visualise the story in your head and then sit down to write it, so you know where it is going. I do that when I’m writing a story; I write it just like I dreamed it. In fact sometimes dreams do become stories so don’t ignore your dreams! There was a time when I used to record my dreams and they can even become stories.
 
 So many things do make a story—the world around you, the people around you, or if you are a very imaginative person you can write a fantasy and create a world of your own. But for that you need a certain power over your writing. 
 
 My advice to those who take part in Write India is-- read as much as you can because most writers, when they were young, were voracious readers.
 
 
 Occasionally, yes, if it’s a long work... unless I am ready with all my material and know what I have to write. It’s more when you actually run out of materials. In case of short stories, it’s already there in your head—it had a beginning, middle and an end. But in a longer work, it might run down a bit.
 
 In such situations, you can put your writing aside and come back to it a little later, maybe get some fresh ideas about it. Or show it to somebody and get some suggestions about it. Or as a last resort you use your waste paper basket (laughs). I have done that, I have torn up or destroyed things. I don’t preserve everything that I write. Over the years there are stories which I have written but I don’t put them in my collections, as I find them to be substandard.
 
 
 
