NAGPUR: On a stage which has seen many a young singer miss a beat, 25 contestants at musical concert ‘Utsahi Sur’ held their own with energy, enthusiasm and experience.   on Friday was packed with family, friends and well-wishers of the contestants, all above 60 years of age, who were participating in a musical contest designed especially for them by Swarved.

 This was the second edition of the contest which saw 140 entries this year against the 114 last year. The twenty five contestants who performed in the final round were picked up by musicians in the audition round held a fortnight back. Clad in glittering silks and kurta pyjama, the men and women took the stage, five at a time, to belt out hits of yesteryears along with a few Marathi songs and natya geet.
 
 “Mohd Rafi songs are a favourite though women have shown a preference for semi-classical numbers as their voice tends to quiver more with age,”  , founder of Swarvedh, told TOI. Otherwise too, there were more men than women among the participants.
 
 Starting with a soulful ‘Naa tum hamen jano’, the contest moved on to peppier numbers like ‘Lakhon hain yahan dil wale’, ‘Rim jhim gire sawan’ and ‘Yaari hai imaan mera’. 
 
 There were doctors, engineers and lawyers among the participants who enjoy music and were loving this opportunity to perform on stage.
 
 “During our other programmes we had observed the expressions of many senior citizens in the audience when a singer would go off key. We realized that they would make the most of an opportunity to be on stage,” Kulkarni said.
 
 And they did so as the audience, which included retired Supreme Court judge  , hummed along when songs like ‘Tasveer banata honn’ and ‘Zindagi bhar nahi bhulegi woh barsaat ki raat’ were presented. 
 
 “Good music has no boundaries of caste, religion or age. This is the perfect platform for senior citizens as singers can showcase their talent and the audience can enjoy music,” said former union minister Vilas Muttemwar, who is known for his singing skills.
 
 The first, second and third prize were bagged by Vimalrao Chaudhary, Neelima Mohite and   respectively. Four consolation prizes were given to Tribhuvan Meshram, Sudhir Meshram and Prakash Khot. 
 
 Awards of appreciation were given to Nitin Kurhekar, Dr Prafful Mokadam, Nandu Andhare, Prakash Deshpande, Gopal Chatterji and Vinod Dubey. The prize for bhav sangeet was bagged by Prabha Ghure. 
 
