CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Monday directed the   government to spell out its decision, if any, in the matter of displaying the   and photographs of late chief minister J   in government offices and welfare schemes in the wake of the Supreme Court verdict in the disproportionate assets case. The response shall be submitted to the court by March 20.

 A direction to this effect was issued when two PILs for removing Jayalalithaa portraits and for restraining the government from having them in offices and schemes, besides building memorials for her with public funds, came up for hearing on Monday.
 
 The first bench of acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice R Mahadevan, remarking that portraits in private offices or political party offices could not be gone into, said the government should respond to all queries raised by two PIL-petitioners –   legislator J Anbazhagan and Advocates Forum for Social Justice president K Balu.
 
 During argument, senior counsel and former additional solicitor-general of India P Wilson said Jayalalithaa was a convicted person and constitutionally debarred from occupying any public office. Noting that Jayalalithaa had not been sentenced to jail term and made to lose her public post only because she is not alive, he said merely because the appeals abated on account of her death, the government could not justify displaying her portraits in government offices and schemes.
 
 When the court sought to know about the penalty, Wilson said the Supreme Court had restored attachment of her properties. After it was informed that a representation to remove the portraits was submitted in person on February 25, the judges remarked, “Give them a breathing time. Let them take a decision on displaying the portraits in public offices post-conviction. Let them answer all queries raised by you.”
 
 Balu, on his part, said Jayalaltihaa had not been given a clean chit by the apex court, but, instead, found guilty of offences such as conspiracy and corruption. Though he submitted a representation to authorities on February 20, no reply had been given thus far, he said.
 
 The government, instead, spent several crores of rupees by placing advertisements on her birth anniversary on February 24, he said. Noting that her photographs were affixed on doles such as free table fan, mixie and grinder, besides school bag and geometry box, , Balu said even in a dictator-ruled nation it would not happen.
 
 To this, the bench remarked, “this is the style of administration that exists here for several decades.”
 
 Later, while Wilson said authorities were planning to introduce a lesson on the ‘constitutionally condemned’ Jayalalithaa for school syllabus, Balu said government should be restrained from building a memorial for such a ‘convicted and condemned person’ with public funds.
 
 
