PUNE: Nigdi resident Aditya Suryavanshi voted for the first time in the   on Tuesday. And he was partly inspired by  . 

 “I am politically aware and active on social media. Since I am eligible to vote, I have no excuse to complain about political parties if I don’t participate in the democratic process. To demand rights, one must exercise one’s basic duty to vote,” the 20-year-old Suryavanshi told TOI.
 
 In fact, a number of voters exercised their franchise for the first time in Tuesday’s elections. Some were youngsters like Suryavanshi, others were in their 30s and even 40s. A few of them had moved to Pune only recently.
 
 “I am not originally from this city,” said Shipra Gurung, a 34-year-old teacher who voted for the first time in the PMC polls. “I transferred my name onto the electoral rolls in Pune, and this was my first election since then. I feel that with all these   announcements, we must vote to see whether these politicians actually want to ring in those changes,” she added. 
 
 Dhanashree Kane was sailing in the same boat, having cast her first-ever vote at 37 on Tuesday. “I have been transferred multiple times to many cities, which is why I never had the chance to register and vote. Now that I have settled here, I got that chance. I logged onto the PMC and state election websites to locate my voting booth,” she said, while in the queue early on Tuesday morning in Vimannagar.
 
 First-time voters, especially youngsters, are careful in choosing their candidates — a clean image and humble living being primary deciding factors. For others, the candidates’ vision on various issues made or broke the deal.
 
 “On the whole, Pune has gone through many changes. So being a part of the change and choosing the right candidate is very critical. It’s not just the party’s reputation, but what the candidate has to offer and their vision that matters,” said 25-year-old Srishti Sinha, an advertising executive. 
 
 Online influence
 
 Nisha Jain, 21, voted for the first time in  . She was inspired to vote by an unlikely source — a video on Facebook and other social networking sites, which the state election authorities produced in collaboration with the comedy collective, All India Bakchod.
 
 “It was funny and focused only on the BMC elections in Mumbai, but it drove home the point that one needs to vote in the most consequential election of all. So I decided to vote in the PMC elections this time around,” she said, after casting her vote.
 
