KOLKATA: A   traffic sergeant went beyond his call of duty to recover Rs 20,000 belonging to a 63-year-old man. The money was in a wallet that was stolen by a taxi driver on Sunday morning.

 By the time the accused taxi driver was traced for the first time in the morning, he had already taken out Rs 20,000 from the wallet and returned the same with only Rs 1,400 in it.
 
 Biplab Mandal, a 2008-batch traffic sergeant now posted at Park Circus traffic gurad, called up the elderly businessman, Vijay Ganeriwala, and travelled with him for over five hours to trace the driver for the second time at his south Kolkata residence and recovered the money.
 
 “I did my duty. I don’t think I have done anything special. But it felt good when the elderly man held my hands and said I was like his son. He was also proud of the Kolkata Police force,” said Mandal (37).
 
 On Sunday morning, the businessman had kept the wallet — containing Rs 21,400 — on the bonnet of his car while changing his T-shirt near Quest Mall. “As I got into the car and started driving towards my swimming club on Strand Road, I realized I did not have the wallet with me. I checked the bonnet and went back to the place where I had parked the car but did not find it there,” said Ganeriwala, a resident of Moyra Street. 
 
 Meanwhile, the taxi driver had found the wallet lying on the road and picked it up. But, when he was picking it up, a man driving a car noticed his act and chased him. 
 
 The man cornered the accused near Don Bosco School in Park Circus where sergeant Mandal had just joined duty. The man took the taxi driver to the police kiosk and asked him to hand over the wallet. The taxi driver returned the wallet, sought mercy and left the place.
 
 “I found the owner’s card inside the wallet and called him. He came but said Rs 20,000 was missing. One of the constables had noted the taxi’s registration number and I immediately asked the control room to find its owner,” said Mandal.
 
 By noon, the taxi owner’s address was traced at Kudghat. Mandal and Ganeriwala got into a police car and started for the taxi owner’s Kudghat home. “The owner gave the driver’s Bhowanipore address but he could not be found there. From there, we obtained another address, which was near Paddapukur. The driver was found there,” Mandal said.
 
  Though he denied having taken the money first, he later confessed and returned it after seeing Mandal in uniform. It was already 5pm by the time they recovered the money.
 
 “We generally associate police with non-cooperation. But here, I found an officer who went beyond his duty to help me,” said Ganeriwala, who runs a glass showroom in Burrabazar.
 
 
