MYSURU: There is much at stake for   (KPCC) president   in the bypolls to the Gundlupet and Nanjangud assembly segments. Victory in both constituencies would increase his prominence within the party, at a time when he is seeking a third term as the chief of the state party unit. The Karnataka home minister spoke exclusively to TOI, while he was on the campaign trail at Kalale in Nanjangud.

 Srinivas Prasad has charged chief minister   with having undermined dalit leaders in the Congress, and has further said that he was contesting the   to restore dalit pride...
 
 I don't think Siddaramaiah has undermined dalit leaders in the party. Congress has always respected, and promoted, dalit com munities. Prasad raised the issue of dalit pride only after quitting the Congress. If he felt dalit leaders were being sidelined, he could have raised the issue when he was a minister. Why didn't he? Apparently, it's his personal pride at stake. He chose to resign, and contest the bypolls because he was power hungry. Welfare of dalits is the priority of the Congress, and the CM is working towards this goal. Prasad has become desperate, and repenting having quit the Congress.
 
 
 
 
 The two constituencies have been with the party for a long time, and will continue to remain with us. The   candidate is fighting the bypoll because of personal reasons, and not on ideological or developmental grounds. Congress is basing its campaign on the work done by our government under Siddaramaiah in the past four years.
 
 
 
 
 A 2-0 victory will further fuel our desire to return to power next year. I have no doubt that we will come back to power in the state. But we wouldn't look at the results as a referendum on the Siddaramaiah government even if we win, since the contest is limited to just two constituencies. Elections should be held in at least 50% of the 224 constituencies for bypoll results to be con sidered a referendum.
 
 
 
 
 I don't see that happening. Migration of leaders from one party to another during poll sea son has been happening since 1952. I admit senior leaders have quit the party. But many leaders joined us in 2004 and 2008. Even now, leaders willing to join us, which indicates we are still strong. Congress will increase its tally (compared to 2013 election results) and get back to power.
 
 BJP state chief BS Yeddyurappa has been campaigning for the past four weeks...
 
 It suggests that Yeddyurappa is under tremendous pressure to prove himself, after his party's performance in Uttar Pradesh. His campaign in the past four weeks is a sign of desperation. He has become so desperate that he's been making wild allegations.
 
