Nagpur: Small and medium hospitals (Small Health Care Organisations or SHCO) across the city are set for a major development under an accreditation program by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH).

 The project has been launched across the nation by NABH, jointly with Indian Medical Association (IMA), who are streamlining the whole process for hospitals.
 
 IMA’s Hospital Board of India (HBI) national secretary Dr Jayesh Lele was in the city on Sunday. He held a meeting with local IMA members in this regard, where he informed that July 2018 would be the last date for SHCOs to enrol under the program.
 
 HBI has been working for improvement of SHCO. Lele said, “Such hospitals (including nursing homes) which are less than 50 or 100 beds generally face trouble with various acts and laws. The   program was not being available to them.”
 
 Lele said, “We recommended NABH to initiate an entry level program for SHCOs since they are into treating majority of Indian population. Within the project we are assisting the hospitals in receiving the accreditation by polishing them up.”
 
 He said, “A year ago the program was launched across the nation where Maharashtra is giving the best response. About 700 SHCOs from within the state have enrolled with IMA. We have done inspection of about 250 hospitals. We are preparing gap analysis, by enlisting the lacunas of each hospital and thereby asking them to comply with it. Beside, we are also involved in training their staff members.”
 
 “Until now NABH had only the high-level accreditation which could be well complied with high-end corporate hospitals, but do all the patients across India need that standard of service,” he said.
 
 He said, “With the same idea with suggested NABH to an entry-level accreditation, where in the hospital will lesser elements to comply with. For instance, the OT standards, minimum staff requirement would be reduced. The area specifications of waiting room, OPD would be minimized.”
 
 “But at the same time there will be no compromise with the treatment guidelines and patient safety. We are not trying to sub-standardize the treatment,”
 
 IMA city president Dr Vaishali Khandait said, “The meeting we had today was for sensitizing the members. There are about 70 HBI members in the city. Now the process will soon gear up as we get in touch with local SHCOs. In coming days local IMA body will be involved in assisting such hospitals for the accreditation.” 
 
 
