HYDERABAD: TRS MLAs are being tactful in handling a situation that has arisen out of people from different parties joining the ruling party. The old versus new is a very present issue but TRS   Vemula Veeresham of   constituency, who has got 81,000 new members into the party, has adopted a strategy to ensure unity. 

 What is having to be dealt with is the heartburn among those who have been with the party for several years. Their fear that new members who have come from the TDP, Congress, BJP and communist parties might get preference has to be allayed.
 
 On April 23, 42-year-old TRS member   had hanged himself at the Prof Jayashankar Agricultural University. In his suicide note, he said TRS in   district was giving more importance to those who had joined the party recently.
 
 In Nakrekal constituency,   who understood that it was necessary to get both the existing members and new members to sail together, set up coordination committees at the mandal level. The committees have leaders whose main job would be to iron out differences among all the members. "It may so happen that the local TRS men who have been in the party for long may be apprehensive of the ones who joined from other parties. We are getting them to sit across the table to sort out their differences," Veeresham told TOI. Some of those who joined the TRS have been leaders in other parties and expect importance to be given to them. "These are tricky issues which are being handled delicately. Our approach is to see that no one is offended," the MLA said. For this, MLA said, he had made himself available to the partymen from as early as 6am till midnight.
 
 While the fact remains that everyone has aspirations, it is also a reality that every small leader would like to grow in the party rank and file. That is respected but partymen are being counselled to first show that they are united. "We have told everyone not to be misled by their coterie who may carry tales. Issues, if any, are to be sorted out openly and amicably," Veeresham said. This is what is happening at the village level in Nakrekal.
 
