A soulful performance by the six-member   group from Rajasthan at the   on Sunday marked the end of a very eventful day for heritage enthusiasts in the city. The Sunday do began with a contingent of 48 people competing in teams in a treasure hunt, which took them to the lesser known heritage sites in the city. 
The hunt was flagged off after twelve teams, comprising of four members each, assembled at the   in the afternoon. The teams were tasked with travelling to 10 different heritage locations in the city in their cars. The participants were seen scampering from one location to the other in search of clue cards. As part of the hunt, the teams 
 visited heritage structures like the  ,  ,   and  . By the time the sun set around the horizon, the teams finally made their way to the finish point at the Qutb Shahi Tombs.
 Visibly exhausted by all the running around and yet elated to have won the hunt, H Venkatesh, a teacher from Himayatnagar, from Team  , shared, “The experience of rushing from one end of the city to the other end in search of our clues was exhilarating. And not to mention the day has been quite informative too! Before this, if someone said the words heritage structures, I could only think of Charminar or Golconda Fort. But today I realised that even buildings like the   and Kachiguda Railway Station have a great history behind them.” And the organisers were seen smiling ear-to-ear as their mission seemed to have been accomplished. “We organised the event with the intention of learning about heritage fun, instead of the same old methods of walks and talks,” said Bharath Reddy, one of the organisers. 
 After a quick breather, the teams were then taken on a guided tour of the Qutb Shahi Tomb complex by an official from   department which was followed by a small ceremony to award the winners. As the dip in the temperatures signalled the night, the Seven Tombs resonated with the soulful music of Manganiar group who played to an audience of over 200 people. 
 
