MUMBAI: The state government has suspended a   for allegedly demanding a “bribe“ from a senior   for expedited permission to carry out kidney transplants. 

 Sources said the probe may extend to other senior officials. The complaint came in January from Mumbai Central-based B Y L Nair Hospital's nephrology department, whose head, Dr Kalpana Mehta, received three phone calls from Subhash Kumawat, a statistical assistant from the health department's Thane division. The calls came soon after a meeting for transplant approvals. The meeting was held to seek the hospital authorization committee (HAC) permission to carry out six kidney transplants. In the committee, a representative from the state's Directorate of Health Services (DHS) must be present to approve transplants within blood relatives. A health department official has been suspended for allegedly demanding a “bribe“ from a senior civic hospital doctor for speedy grant of permission to carry out kidney transplants. The official, not related to transplants, made calls soon after a meeting for six transplant approvals was held at Nair Hospital.
 
 Nair Hospital was granted permission to carry out all the transplants. Yet, Subhash Kumawat, who is an employee of the DHS but was in no way related to the committee, allegedly started calling Dr Kalpana Mehta, Nair Hospital's nephrology department head. “Kumawat apparently called Dr Mehta three times and asked her to do some `adjustment'. When she did not relent, he offered to meet her at Nair Hospital,“ said Dr Satish Pawar, head of DHS. Dr Mehta immediately brought the matter to institute dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal's notice, who in turn informed the DHS.
 
 “The BMC doctors were so taken aback by the demand that they put all six surgeries on hold. We then convinced them that since the permissions were in place, they should go ahead with the transplants,“ said Dr Pawar. “We suspended Kumawat within five minutes of receiving the complaint. Organ donation has already gone through a tough phase last year after the Hiranandani incident and we want to be absolutely intolerant towards any possibility of mischief,“ he said.
 
 Incidentally , Kunawat comes from the same office that had sent a representative to the hospital authorization committee of LH Hiranandani Hospital that was at the centre of a kidney racket last year (see box). Pawar said a preliminary inquiry has found Kumawat's possible involvement. “We have now ordered a full-fledged investigation,“ he said and added that no senior official was under the scanner.
 
 TOI has learnt that the possibility of the involvement of more government officials in the racket to grant transplant permissions will be looked into. In the Hiranandani case, state official Dr BK Kadam was found to be negligent.
 
 “It is the state official's job to call a hospital's bluff in case it is trying to flout transplant norms. It is for this reason that state officials are part of the HAC. But if they demand bribes to grant permissions, it only means that they are indirectly a party to transplant rackets,“ said a source. The incident has left the DHS red-faced as their scathing report against Hiranandani Hospital had led to the arrest of five doctors.
 
 Dr Bharmal said that Nair carried out over 60 kidney transplants annually . “We have never before come across such an incidence. We are fully cooperating with the inquiry . A few of those transplants have already been carried out,“ he said.
 
 Interestingly , the DHS is working towards setting up stricter operating protocols, so that the loopholes in the Transplant Act cannot be exploited. Among some of the ideas, the state plans to make Aadhar card verification mandatory for establishing the identity of both the donor as well as the recipient.
 
 In cases where confusion prevails, police verification is also likely to be sought. The standard operating protocols are waiting for a final approval from a high-level state committee.
 
