BHOPAL: The   is one step away from bringing   under a   that will not only give the state a say in fares but also maximise  . The new rules might be in force by April.

 Senior officials in the secretariat confirmed to TOI that the proposals have got the green light and the notification will be issued within two months. The file is now with the transport minister for approval. Once cleared, it has to go to the law department after which it would come into effect.
 
 There are two or three big players in the app-cab market in Madhya Pradesh, and a few others have hopped on the bandwagon, but the government has no rules for taxi aggregators. Officials said the notification would specify the mandatory criteria for providing such services — the aggregators would have to register with the transport department, pay fees to the government. Those applying for licence will have to have a minimum number of vehicles. The state will fix the minimum and maximum fares so that passengers aren’t fleeced and neither does any firm undercut the others.
 
 “It will be a fair deal for everyone — passenger and service provider,” said an official, adding that they aim to fix the lowest fare in such a way that it benefits passengers and doesn't hurt the firm’s bottom line either. Security will be a major aspect. Police verification for drivers will be made more stringent and GPS tracking of cabs made simpler and more accurate, say sources.
 
 While app cabs have changed the way of life in Bhopal, there is simmering tension with autorickshaw drivers who demand more regulation of the taxi aggregators. Auto-wallahs recently went on a two-day strike and warned app cabs to stay off railway stations.
 
 “The administration feels the need to regulate app-based taxi providers because they have been in operation across the state for quite some time now, yet everyone has different fares and terms and conditions,” said an official. Also, there have been crimes in app cabs. In July last year, a woman was raped by an app-cab driver in Bhopal. She had hired the taxi to go home from hospital, but the driver allegedly raped her in the vehicle. During the investigation, it came to light that there was no police verification of the driver before he was hired. In August last year, another app-cab driver was booked for drunken driving in city. 
 
 In the past, the MP government has issued certain guidelines and asked app-taxi providers to follow the Motor Vehicles Act, but this was only regarding issues like taxi permit and time-wise fare. This is the first time that an all-encompassing policy has been worked out.
 
