 couldn’t have been happier with the All India   Federation’s announcement that the Indian Super League ( ) and   will run simultaneously at least for the next couple of seasons. With several players struggling to find clubs and demand for footballers on the wane, the former India captain and now advisor to All-India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel feels this is the way forward. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with TOI…
 
  
 
  
  I think both leagues being played for seven months is the way forward. Right now, the biggest challenge to Indian football is unemployment (of players). Three years ago, you had some of India’s top players in peak form struggling to find clubs. The number of unemployment issues we hear at the FPAI (Football Players’ Association of India) has been rising. Players complain that there aren’t enough clubs. With both leagues playing for seven months each, the number of Indian players (participating) will triple. That’s what we want. Right now, 80-odd players who sign for ISL clubs then go on loan to I-League clubs. Once the two leagues are played simultaneously, demand for (Indian) players will increase; there will be a greater number of Indian players in high-level tournaments and more (players) will be employed.
  
  
 
  
  In the shorter run, that may be the case. But in the long run, I-League clubs can start producing their own players. They can (also) have top-quality players and have longer contracts.
  
  
 
  
  That happens around the world. You cannot help it. Today Real Madrid, Barcelona, Manchester United all take the best players. Richer clubs around the world buy the best players. Look at Leicester City; they won the Premier League and their best player then joined Chelsea FC, of course, at a price. Like what happens now (in India), players shouldn’t move for free. If I-League clubs develop a player and don’t want to sell, they can keep him.
  
  
 
  
  A footballer needs right guidance. You must play where you get opportunities to play and show what you have. That’s the key element of football. A lot of youngsters may get big amounts from bigger clubs but not the opportunity (to play). It’s here that guidance counts. Money is also important but for one or two years, if you are not running after money, you can benefit in the long run.
  
  
 
  
  Not a bad idea. You have top four from both leagues battling in the Super Cup. Anyway, in the Super Cup, you have to play as per AFC criteria which means three plus one foreign players.
  
  
 
  
  If they have seven-month leagues, it’s for them to decide. The FPAI has written several letters and had meetings asking for less foreign players. (FPAI president) Renedy Singh and (FPAI general manager) Cyrus Confectioner has been pushing for it. But if a seven-month league happens, we are still happy.
  
  
 
  
  If we are in the top 100, let’s be happy about it. Tomorrow, if we slip, people will start criticising AIFF again. In India, Fifa rankings are valued. Rankings obviously does not give you the correct reflection but a good ranking helps generate interest in the country. That’s what is happening in India at the moment. Getting into the top 50 is the bigger challenge.
