

 Jayesh Rathi knows he isn’t making any sense. Days before his  , the ICSE student is mouthing the kind of warped Hindi lines that ideally belong in a Rohit Shetty flick. "Lina ke RBCs Faraar Ho Gaye," says the Kandivli resident and follows it up with: "Nana Patekar Pass, Sab Bindaas".
 
 Nothing’s wrong with him. Lina’s RBCs are only absconding so that Rathi can recall the symbols of all alkali metals in one breath — lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), calcium (Ca) and francium (Fr), and Patekar’s academic success ensures that the entire nitrogen family — including phosphorus (P), arsenic (As), antimony (Sb) and bismuth (Bi) — queues up phonetically in a single file. It was Rathi’s elder sister Sneha who corrupted his brain   with these periodic-table cheat codes that had been burned into her memory in school seven years ago. Now, armed with the hand-me-down shortcuts, Rathi is chemically ready for March 22, the day of his Science paper. "I’ve even passed them on to my best friend," says the 15-year-old, referring to sentences including the inverted "First Class Biryani I Ate" [halogens flourine (F), chlorine (C), bromine (Br), iodine (I) and astatine (At)] and the accusatory "Chemistry Sir Gives Sanki Problems" [the carbon family -- carbon (C), silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn) and lead (Pb)]. 
 
  
  
 
 Collectively, such   or  , as they are called, form what’s perhaps the most underrated side-effect of the board exam fever: creativity. Every year, in the course of helping anxious teens mug up cryptic definitions, complex diagrams and convoluted formulae, armies of schoolteachers and coaching-class gurus become as inventive as street magicians or game developers. Out of their trickster sleeves tumble abbreviations, damaged enunciations, Bollywood analogies and whatever else it takes to game the demands of rote-learning. Everything from mangled Kuch Kuch Hota Hai songs such as "Sulphur paas aaye, Phosphorus mil jaaye" to tangential food chain-inspired rhymes like "Where the people don’t have culture, they become vultures," are part of this oral heritage that, like stubborn viral video tunes, will never really leave the students’ mental hardware.
 
 It was roughly ten years ago that Vanita Shetty, a teacher at Walkeshwar’s Gopi Birla Memorial School, first uttered the words: "King Henry Died. Mother Didn’t Cry Much" in her Maths class and her former students still come up to her and repeat it. Code for kilometres, hectametres, decametres, metres, decimetres, centimetres, millimetres, the line made conversion of units such as distance, weight, area and volume seem easy for droves of students. "It’s not original," clarifies Shetty but, a bit like Michael Jackson’s moonwalk which was really invented by someone else, it has become her fingerprint along with the other line: "Kings Play Chess On Fine Glass Sets" — a ready reckoner for the Class IX Biology classification: Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus and Species. Some time ago, Shetty’s students decided to return the favour when they infused the otherwise-colourless points of concurrence of things in a triangle — like median (MC), altitude (Ao), angle bisector (ABI), perpendicular bisector (PB) and circumcentre (C) — with a happy meal: "McDonalds Aao Abhi Pavbhaji Chato." 
 
 Even the famously dull Geography perks up with fun mnemonics. "Namami Trime", for instance, isn’t a Sanskrit mantra but shorthand for the seven northeastern states — Nagaland, Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram — invented by Padmaja Limaye, an English and Social Studies teacher at Vashi’s Father Agnel School, who always found Class X kids stumbling over the names of the Seven Sisters. "They find it difficult to mark these states on the map so I have been using this for long," says Limaye, who also knows several adult Indians incapable of naming the states let alone locating them. Another all-season Geography mantra comes from a local coaching class that etched the names of the icy rivers — Indus, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, Sutlej — into teenaged brains with the snowy apology: "I Can’t Run Behind Santa."
 
 "The entire purpose of mnemonics," says Sudhanshu Sinhal, managing director of an ICSE coaching class, "is to make learning effective and fun." To establish the "human touch", pop culture references, animations, movie titles and songs are useful, finds Sinhal, citing an ‘Element song’ by singer Tom Lehrer on YouTube which is responsible for many local students internalising the periodic table. When Sinhal’s students politely ask, "May I have a large container of coffee?", they are not looking for a supersized cappuccino so much as the caffeinated mathematical sequence of Pi. Counting the letters in each word in that question throws up the prized 3.1415926. In fact, more imaginary coffee flows in Sinhal’s history class when he reduces Liberalisation, Privatisation and Globalisation (LPG) and Capitalism, Communism, Democracy (CCD) to: "Agar ghar mein LPG khatam ho jaaye toh coffee peene CCD jao." The statement becomes more profound when you realise that it subtly hints at the impact of many of those six concepts. However, any embedded meaning, Sinhal assures, is purely coincidental.
 
