PATNA: RJD chief   virtually “dragged” his wife   from the kitchen and made her Bihar CM on July 25, 1997, to salvage his political legacy hours before his arrest by the CBI in the multi-crore fodder scam. Twenty years on, his entire family is facing corruption charges.

 The “nascent” political career of Lalu’s two minister sons – deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and health minister   Yadav – is at stake with central enforcement agencies tightening noose around arguably the most influential political family in present day Bihar for allegedly amassing “benami” properties and floating shell companies in multiple cities, including Delhi-NCR, Patna and Kolkata. 
 
 On Friday, the CBI raided the 10, Circular Road bungalow allotted to Rabri in connection with alleged irregularities in awarding of tenders for hotel maintenance in 2006 when Lalu was the railways minister. 
 
 On Saturday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths raided three places in New Delhi associated with Lalu’s elder daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti and her husband Shailesh Kumar against alleged money laundering and benami transactions though their shell firm Mishail Packers and Printers Private Limited.
 
 On June 20, the Income-Tax department “provisionally attached” over 12 properties in Patna and Delhi associated with Lalu and kin, including Rabri, Misa, Shailesh, Tejashwi, Ragini and Chanda.
 
 Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap is also not left behind as Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited cancelled the allotment of a petrol pump on June 16 citing violation of norms and submission of false information at the time of filing of application for the same in 2012. 
 
 The entire Lalu family – two sons and at least three of his seven daughters – are facing allegations of getting land “gifts” under quid pro quo in return of jobs in railways to individuals or election tickets and ministerial berths to political leaders. As per allegations recently made by senior   functionary Sushil Kumar Modi and earlier by JD (U) in 2008, the controversial land deals were struck between 2004 and 2008.
 
 “Lalu did not learn any lesson from fodder scam. Instead, he involved his entire family after that. His modus operandi was to take land for job or election tickets and other benefits. Lalu also formed a number of shell firms with the help of his close aide  , who was Union corporate affairs minister in UPA-I to channelize his black money. He involved his entire family – two sons and seven daughters – in these unlawful activities and they are now paying the price for it,” Modi told TOI.
 
 JD (U)’s   alias Lalan Singh and Shivanand Tiwari (presently in RJD) had alleged in 2008 that RJD MPs gifted land to Lalu and family to get berth in the Union cabinet. Those who received land from job seekers include Rabri, Tej Pratap, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Misa Bharti and Lalu’s brother-in-law Prabhunath Yadav. The JD(U) had also submitted a 600-page memorandum to the Prime Minister’s Office demanding action against Lalu family.
 
 “Members of Lalu family charged with benami properties and irregular financial transactions are likely to face serious action, considering the way different enforcement agencies of central government have initiated probe,” said V S Dubey, who was the chief secretary of undivided Bihar when the CBI had arrested Lalu on July 25, 1997.
 
