BENGALURU:   may be eyeing a 15-minute window to get   to reach those in distress. But there's still some ground to cover, if one looks at the   clocked by Hoysalas as on 5.30pm on Monday: 20 minutes and 23 seconds. This is according to information collated at the  

 “Of the 619 calls received till Monday evening, 141 were of actionable nature. Of them, 73 required intervention of Hoysala vehicles,“ said Nagendra Prasad, DCP , command centre.The distress calls attended to by Hoysala vehicles included road accidents and crimes like fights, robberies and other offenses.However, police sources said traffic was the biggest hurdle in meeting targets. There were also other reasons like callers' inability to provide the exact location where help was required.
 
 Police commissioner Praveen Sood, however, reiterated that his team was determined to bring down the response time to below 15 minutes. “It's just not acceptable.Hoysalas are meant for emergencies and they should reach the spot at the earliest. We shall make all efforts to bring down the response time to 15 minutes or below,“ Sood said. According to the top cop, unlike before, now there's no jurisdiction for Hoysala vehicles. “There was a time when these vehicles were under police stations and would have jurisdictions. Now, Hoysalas are stationed at specific spots and can be rushed anywhere and everywhere,“ he said.
 
 Sood visited the Hoysala control room on Monday evening and interacted with the staff.“We are developing a system where calls received by the control room can be transferred to others. If a caller speaks Telugu and the cop attending the call cannot speak the language, he or she can transfer the call to other colleagues who know the language,“ he said.
 
 
 
 Soon, calls made to the con trol room will be divided under three heads -Dire emergencies, less emergency and non-emergency, said a senior police officer. “All calls will be recorded on computers and the police officer who at tends to them will also segre gate them. Calls listed under `dire emergencies' category will be automatically diverted to the Hoysala control panel,“ said the officer, adding, “The `less emergency' and `non emergency' calls will be at tended to by the control room staff themselves. If needed, the calls will be forwarded to police stations,“ he said.
 
