When Akshay, a young Doonite, was taking a walk in Gandhi Park a couple of days back, he came across two men shouting at a girl who were also trying to hit her. But when he tried to reason with the two men, much to his surprise and amusement, he realised that the young men and the woman are a part of a professional   group and were practicing for an upcoming play. 

  While Akshay was amused at this goof-up, the theatre artists of the city say that their ‘situation’ is far from funny. Most of them have no designated place to practice for plays and this is just one of the many problems they face. One of the main issues lies in the fact that they have to shell out as much as `20,000 to organise a play in a  , which is the  . Apart from these, there are other issues too – from a lack of enough suitable places to stage plays to absence of green rooms for female artists, its problems aplenty for Doon’s theatre artists.
 
  
  Young theatre artists from Doon practice at Gandhi Park (Shikhar Dua/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  Deepak Bangwal, a theatre artist from Doon and the founder of the group called Awaaz, says, "The biggest problem that Doon’s theatre artists face is the lack of support and facilities. Imagine last year, when the state government had organised an event on world theatre day, the performances were held under a tent and not in an auditorium. Around five years back, we had to pay around `2,500 if we wanted to stage a play in Town Hall. But now, we have to pay almost `20,000 for one play."
 
  He adds, "There are so many vacant places that the government owns and as a theatre artist, we have requested them multiple times to let us practice there but no allotment has ever been done. It is only when the government supports us that the standard of the theatre will improve in the state. Then only can we expect people to buy tickets and come and watch plays."
 
  Abhishek Mandola, from theatre group  , says, "We, the theatre artists from the state, have no proper place to practice and perform our plays in Doon. We often have to practice in public grounds and parks for our plays. How can the Nagar Nigam people expect an artist to pay `20K for one play in Dehradun? Even the facilities in Town Hall are not very good. There are no proper entry and exit for the artist from the stage. You have to walk amidst the crowd at times."
  
  A play in progress at Town Hall (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  Gayatri, a theatre artist from Doon, says, "For female artists, the situation is worse. You don’t have washrooms in most of the places where we stage plays and often the door latches are broken. There is washroom in the backstage room that everyone has to share, so you have no place to go and do your touch up or makeup before a performance. Also we are hardly paid a good amount for our performances."
 
  Chanda Mamgain from Jan Samvaad Natak Manch says, "Most of the time, we practice at our own places like our house terrace or garage. But not every time, the family members like the entire group coming to the house for rehearsals. Also, when we practice at public grounds like Gandhi Park, people often stare at us and pass nasty comments. What our state needs right now is a designated place where not just theatre artists but also folk artists can perform and practice."
 
  
  A play staged at Town Hall (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
  
 
 
 
 Himani Shivpuri, a Doon actress who does number of plays in Delhi and other parts of the country, apart from Bollywood films, says, "The condition of theatre in Doon is disappointing. Despite the city having so many talented artists, nobody is actually working for our theatre in the city. For the past four years, I have been coming down to Doon to perform in a play every year but finding a decent place to perform has been the biggest challenge each time. Twice, I requested The Doon School to let us perform there but not every time can we take favours from a school. Doon needs a good theatre auditorium. Also, we need to take care of female artists. I remember performing in a government organisations’ auditorium where the washrooms were far away from backstage which is very inconvenient for a female theatre artist."
 
  Charanpreet Singh, a Doon actor who has been an active theatre artist in Mumbai, says, "When I visited Doon last month, I went to watch a play in Town Hall but the conditions ther e left me surprised and upset. The artists there told me how they had to pay 20K for the hall along with extra charges for additional things like generator and lights. Even in a place like Mumbai, for `30-40K, you get a decent auditorium where you can perform a play. So `20K in Doon, that too for a government auditorium, is too much."
  
  
 -- 
 
 
 
