Ahmedabad: Jasmin Shah of  , head of a bird rescue centre in Memnagar, has claimed that despite government officials collecting guinea fowl samples on January 3, they kept telling him for over a week that reports could turn out negative. They had said the same even on the evening of January 12, but suddenly, on the same night, they rushed to his animal rescue centre with police and culled the birds.

 Shah claims that at 6.30 pm on on January 12, he had talked to the animal husbandry department over the phone. “They had again confirmed that the report could be negative. So, I took about 70 birds in two baskets to drop them at another rescue centre in Motera and create space for manja-injured birds, which had already started coming in because of Uttarayan,” claimed Shah.
 
 However, about an hour from his phone to the animal husbandry department, Shah says he started receiving calls from cops and government officials to come to the rescue centre. “I was then informed that the report is positive and all birds in the rescue centre were culled on the same night,” Shah said.
 
 Shah claimed that 135 guinea fowls - dropped at   on January 3, were sent to his rescue centre and about 1,300 remaining birds were taken to   in Hathijan. The birds at Asha Foundation were culled on the next morning.
 
 He is still unable to understand what took authorities so long to confirm the   report, Shah said. 
 
 Sources from the animal husbandry department had claimed on January 11 that bird flu reports were positive. Despite the knowledge, officials didn’t cull the birds till the night of January 12, after Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit was over.
 
 Crime branch officials, meanwhile, said that the turkeys brought in from Mumbai and kept in Asha Foundation in Hathijan may have carried the deadly virus. “From about 300 turkeys brought from Mumbai, some had already died before blood samples were taken by the animal husbandry department on December 27 and 28, 2016,” said a crime branch official.
 
