CHENNAI: The year 2017 looks to be a promising for cab aggregators   and Chennai-based UTOO. The US-headquartered Uber and serial entrepreneur C Sivasankaran-backed   got permit within a fortnight to ply in  .

 The state, which has come down hard on taxi aggregators, is one of the first to have a comprehensive policy, governing their operations. 
 
 "On December 31, 2016, we received the Karnataka Aggregator's Licence from the state transport department. We will work with authorities to bring in progressive regulation that recognises ridesharing and allows Uber to best serve its drivers, riders and cities of India," said a Uber spokesperson.
 
 Karnataka was the first state to hit the brakes on surge pricing. In April last year, the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology Aggregator Rules, 2016, was implemented, mandating companies to cap surge pricing and fares -- at Rs 19.50/km for an AC car and Rs 14.50/km for a non-AC vehicle. 
 
 Among other requirements, regulation also mandates cabs to have GPS/GPRS enabled monitoring system, sharing data with the transport department, police and maintain a registry with commuters and trips made. Apart from security concerns, the regulation also addresses other aspects such as having thermal fare printers for automatic generation of invoices and a "yellow sign board" marking the vehicle to be a taxi.
 
 After Karnataka came down hard on technology cab providers, Ola was the first to get a permit to ply in the state last June. US-headquartered Uber subsequently dragged the government to court, questioning its authority to frame such rules. The company’s attempt to scuttle the rules suffered a jolt in November when the Karnataka high court upheld the state government’s right to frame such rules, giving Uber a month’s time to comply and get a licence to ensure smooth operations.
 
 In December, the Union transport ministry backed the idea of surge pricing on premium cabs while suggesting that states could continue to regulate prices of smaller cabs that are seen as an alternative to public transport.
 
 Joining the fray is UTOO, which currently operates in Chennai and Hyderabad. “We will launch in Bengaluru in weeks and have about 9,500 cars. Our drivers will get the same benefits their counterparts in Chennai and Hyderabad currently enjoy - housing, physical therapy, uniform and shoes,” said Sivasankaran, founder, UTOO.
 
 The startup, launched in June last year, aims at differentiating itself from incumbents by not going for surge pricing. Sivasankaran has also gone great lengths to attract drivers on his platform by offering multiple finance options for vehicles. UTOO intends to ride into Mumbai, Pune and Jaipur by March this year.
 
 
