As people in Saifai, the ancestral village of SP patriarch  , cast their vote on Sunday, one question is being hotly debated: Whom will Mulayam accompany when he comes to vote, brother Shivpal or son Akhilesh? 

 The SP leaders will cast vote in Saifai, which comes under   constituency from where Shivpal is contesting as SP candidate. Amid the protracted family feud, Mulayam has extensively campaigned for Shivpal in the constituency.
 
 Except those contesting assembly election, all other family members of Mulayam are expected to reach Saifai for voting after 9am. Youths sitting in the lush green lawns of CM Akhilesh Yadav's residence located opposite Mulayam's ancestral house, were busy guessing the preference of Netaji (Mulayam). "Akhilesh bhaiyya and his wife Dimple are expected at 9.30am, while it is not clear whether Netaji will come with them," they said.
 
 A large number of women, including elderly and middle aged, could also be seen animatedly discussing political scene in the verandah of Mulayam's residence. Far from these worries, Mulayam's brother Abhayram Yadav is a picture of composure. Prodded, he recounted the total number of votes in his family. 
 
 According to his calculation, maximum six votes are in the family of Mulayam, including that of his wife Sadhna, Akhilesh, other son Pratik and also daughters-in-law Dimple and Aparna.
 
 He said that his elder son and MP Dharmendra Yadav will come to vote, but other son Anurag Yadav may not be present as he is contesting assembly election. He added that chances of the arrival of Aparna are bleak. But, MP Tej Pratap and all members of Shivpal will definitely come to cast vote. 
 
 He, however, declined to reveal the number of votes of Ram Gopal Yadav's family and asked to visit his residence to know about it. He said this family has been   since Mulayam took to politics. 
 
 "He (Mulayam) has always motivated not only family members, but also villagers to exercise their right to franchise."
 
 In anticipation of high-profile visits, the administration has deployed scores of policemen and other security personnel at the houses of Mulayam and Akhilesh. The youths, who did not find the voters slip from booth level officers, could be found searching their slips at the compound of the houses.
 
