NAGPUR: In a clear case of double standards, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s general body has made it mandatory for L&T Construction to provide all 1,200 admissions in the proposed   free of cost. However, it has made no such demand to the Pune’s   for its 4,000 admissions in the proposed off-campus centre. 

 In what was probably the last meeting of the current general body on Saturday, the BJP-led ruling alliance witnessed strong opposition from its own corporators on the waste-to-energy project proposed at Bhandewadi as they wanted the dumping yard to be shifted to the outskirts.
 
 Proposals to allot 7,000 sq mt (1.72 acres) of land at Babulbhan to L & T and 75 acres at Wathoda to Symbiosis was tabled for discussion. Both were to get land for 30 years on nominal rents.
 
 Praful Gudadhe of the Congress and Suresh Talwekar of Shiv Sena wanted to know why land worth crores was being allotted at cheap rates. “The Wathoda land is worth over Rs180 crore. Also, the   should make the proposed reservation of 25% seats in Symbiosis free of cost too. It should not have amended the conditions in the pre-bid meeting before taking consent of the general body,” said Gudadhe.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke and ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari said L&T will provide all admissions free of cost as it is developing the centre under corporate social responsibility (CSR). “70% seats will be reserved to Nagpurians and remaining 30% for those from Vidarbha. But the same cannot be applicable in the case of Symbiosis. With a university like Symbiosis in city, students need not go outside for seeking quality education,” they said.
 
 Leader of opposition Vikas Thakre wanted to know why land cost at ready reckoner rate was not being recovered from Symbiosis. Reacting to this, additional municipal commissioner Ramanath Sonawane said there are provisions in MMC Act to provide land at nominal rent to educational and medical institutions if registered under the Public Trust Act.
 
 BJP’s Narendra Borkar and Pradeep Pohane said that engaging the consortium of Essel Infraprojects and Hitachi Zosen India at Bhandewadi would mean that dumping yard would not be shifted for the next 15 years. NCP’s Duneshwar Pethe, Congress’s Purushottam Hazare also made the same demand. 
 
 In reply, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the waste-to-energy project, as well as the existing waste-to-compost plant, will ensure that the entire 1,000 tonnes of garbage that city generates will be treated. “The 15-20% waste that will remain after treatment will be disposed off in a scientific manner,” he said.
 
 
