LUCKNOW: All students of government   in Uttar Pradesh from class I-VIII will get an  . The government’s decision is aimed at ensuring greater transparency and to increase overall efficiency by putting a check on fake registrations in schools. There are 1.78 crore students enrolled in 1.68 lakh schools, both primary and upper primary. Teachers’ salary, said officials, will also be linked to Aadhaar number. 

 Officials said they had been given an ultimatum by the basic education minister (independent charge)   to hold camps in schools and ensure each student has an Aadhaar number by July end. Various agencies involved in the process for government schoolchildren are already coordinating with each other, and soon camps will be held in government schools. 
 
 Once issued, the Aadhaar card will be the students’ identification document. It will also be required by students for receiving benefits under various school-related schemes. Union ministry of human resource development had earlier issued instructions where students across the country will get midday meals on sharing their unique ID number. 
 
 “It will be a game-changer for the basic education department of UP and the card will bring transparency to nomination of children in schools,’’ said joint director, basic education, Lalita Pradeep. 
 
 At present, the government is unable to track students in its schools. “We don’t know at which stage a student drops out but with Aadhaar, the status can be tracked the identification of students will be clean and clear,’’ said an official, adding it is a massive exercise to be completed by July. 
 
 Besides, on recommendation of director basic education Sarvendra  , Jaiswal has asked all basic education officials to utilise the summer holidays in image building for   schools. Every education official has been instructed to go beyond the school inspection and participate in the community. Each officer will visit one village and interact with parents, thus bridging gap between government and common public. The idea is to increase enrollment in government schools. 
 
