CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has restored the family pension of a widow of a   (BSF) soldier which was stopped due to her re-marriage to the the brother of her dead husband. Justice   passed these orders while setting aside the orders of   authorities stopping pension to  , a resident of Rewari district in Haryana and widow of late constable   of BSF, on the grounds that she had re-married.

 “Mere re-marriage as BSF thinks should not disentitle the widow to extraordinary pension, and if this view is accepted or upheld, it would lead to serious ill-effects and cause grave damage to the institution of marriage of widows, who are the most vulnerable section of society,“ observed Justice Raina in a order passed on April 7.
 
 “The policy may demand that a widow be re-married for her future security and this should not be a fetter or deterrent from getting remarried...,“ the court held. 
 
 When Surya Prakash joined the BSF in 2001, his family con sisted of his father, mother, two sisters and a brother, Harish Kumar. On July 10, 2005, he married to Namrata Pandit, but a couple of days after this, on July 12, he accidently fell into a well in his native village and died due to head injury. After his death, the financial benefits admissible to Prakash along with family pension under the Rules of 1972 were granted to Namrata.
 
 On August 24, 2005, the petitioner was remarried to the younger brother of the constable, Harish Kumar. On getting information about the remarriage, the pension was discontinued from December 2015 onwards by BSF under Rule 54 (6) (i) of the Rules of 1972. The petitioner had received ordinary family pension up to 10 years as per Rule 54(6)(i) of the Rules of 1972 as the husband of the petitioner died due to an accident while he was on earned leave. The rule entitles a widow to family pension, but only till the date of death or re-marriage, whichever is earlier.
 
 Aggrieved, Namrata had approached the HC on the grounds that she was entitled to these benefits as she supported the family of her dead husband.
 
 Allowing her petition, HC has set aside the BSF orders and directed them to re-start her pension within three months.
 
