THRISSUR: Family members of engineering student  , who hanged himself inside the college hostel last month, have released a recorded audio conversation of his fellow student at   (NCERC), Pampady, saying that bloodstains were seen on his body and the bathroom where his body was found. 

 His uncle K K Sreejith said that he had informed the policemen at Pazhayannur police station about the statements made by fellow student in the immediate days after his death, but the officers there had denied it at that point of time. He said that other student had seen bloodstains in Jishnu's mouth and also the bathroom. 
 
 This was revealed during a conversation between a fellow student and a journalist some days after Jishnu had killed himself.
 
 Sreejith said he had an audio recording of the police officer at Pazhayannur, denying the disclosure of the student. He alleged that police officers had not mentioned it in the inquest report too.
 
 He pointed out that a month after the launch of probe, the special investigation team had detected bloodstains in the rooms of college officials and later Jishnu's room. "All these indicate that there were attempts on the part of the police officers, who were conducting the initial probe, to derail the investigation," Sreejith claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, a section of the teachers at NCERC went on a strike on Saturday afternoon alleging that some students had attacked them. However, students alleged that the teachers were only 'acting out a play' scripted by the management.
 
 In another development, ABVP activists launched a protest at the office of the   (KUHS) PVC Dr Nalinakshan demanding that Krishnadas, who heads the trust running NCERC, should be expelled from the university senate.
 
 Meanwhile, KPCC vice-president   said the government should bring laws to rein in self-financing colleges in the state. Satheesan, who is leading the UDF central region march, made these observations while talking to reporters here on Saturday. 
 
 He said Kerala has become a free ground for goons and quotations gangs and chief minister   seems to have lost his grip over the police.
 
