 
  – India’s first ever conversational commerce app just launched a first of it’s kind   to help its users buy the perfect gift for Valentine’s Day. Powered by Archies – one of India’s premier gifting brands, the bot is going to be a selection of handpicked & curated gifts for both men and women. This is the first of the many contextual chat-bots that Haptik is planning to deploy on its platform in 2017, leveraging its core Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence-based technology. 
  
 With Valentine’s Day just around the corner, the chatbot will understand a user’s requirement, the kind of gift they are looking for and recommend potential gifts based on their budget. 
 
 “We are proud to partner with Archies to build the world's first Valentine's Day gifting chatbot.” said Aakrit Vaish, CEO, Haptik. ”Chatbots are finding applications in all types of use cases, and this is another attempt by Haptik towards that effort. We are confident people will love it!” 
 
 "Valentine's Day is one of the biggest gifting seasons in the country, and a native integration with Haptik made a lot of sense to drive more traction for Archies. We are very excited about leveraging this technology & creating a first of it's kind experience for our customers" ~ Anil Moolchandani, Chairman and Managing Director, Archies 
 
 Haptik recently launched the latest version of it’s app, with major updates including an in-built Haptik Wallet and have since seen a 3x growth in transactions done on the app. Partnerships with leading companies like Archies, further build relevance and strengthen the proposition of ‘getting real work done on chat.’ 
 
 Haptik processes requests for a wide range of services that includes travel bookings, food delivery, cabs, restaurant reservation, repair services, and many other. The app’s most popular feature is reminders, where users actually receive calls for day-to-day activities and chores. All of these features have made Haptik the highest rated app in India as of January 2017, with an average rating of 4.55 on Google Play with over 80,000 reviews. 
 
  The app is available for free on both iOS &  . 
  
 Press Release by Haptik via Brandwire.in
 
 
