Indore: The highest denomination tickets for the India v/s Australia third one day international at   on September 24 will be up for grabs from Monday through cash counters set up at the venue.

 Over the counter ticket sales for the Pavilion block (including the women’s only wing) will begin at 10am on Monday under tight security of local police personnel and private security guards.
 
 Cricket enthusiasts interested in buying tickets for the pavilion block will be able to enter through the Narendra Hirwani gate. They can collect the tickets at counters set up at the east gallery.
 
 The highest denomination tickets of the south pavilion (upper) will be available for Rs 5,120 including GST while the south pavilion (lower) will be available for Rs 4,480.
 
 To avoid any untoward situations and manage the crowd, MPCA officials have sought support from the police department.
 
 “When the tickets are sold online there is no need of crowd management but at the counter sale we need to manage the crowd and ensure that the process goes smoothly. The local police will be at the stadium along with private security personnel,” said Rohit Pandit, CEO, MPCA.
 
 The customers have been asked to bring a photocopy of their identity proof that will be kept with MPCA for record. A customer will be able to purchase only two tickets while only one ticket can be purchased under the student concession category.
 
 Leaving nothing to technology this time, MPCA will accept only cash payments for tickets. No debit, credit cards or e-wallets will be accepted by MPCA.
 
 “There have been a number of occasions where online transactions fail and in a crowed situation like counter sales, it will be difficult to manage if any mishap occurs. We have decided to opt for cash only to avoid any sort of inconvenience,” added Pandit. Water facility will be available for cricket enthusiasts.
 
 Spectators who require wheelchairs will be given one complementary ticket of the same block which will allow attendants to accompany specially-abled fans.
 
 Customers for the specially-abled block will have to produce an original government certificate from a competent authority.
 
 
