VADODARA: Condolences poured in from politicians as well as Bollywood for the family of  , the 27-year-old fashion designer from Vadodara, who died in the  .

 Union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, chief minister  , deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and several others called up Khushi’s father Ashwin Shah to offer their condolences and assure their support. 
 
 “Khushi’s father Ashwin is heartbroken as he had lost his wife just about a year ago and now has lost a young daughter,” said Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt who met the family on Monday. Khushi’s aunt had also died of cancer a year and a half back. 
 
 “It is a big loss even for Vadodara as a promising fashion designer who had made her mark at the age of 27 has died in the gruesome terror attack,” she said.
 
 “All the arrangements are being done by the MEA and the Indian Embassy at Istanbul to bring back her body and ensure that the family does not face any hassles in this time of grief,” she said, adding that she will liaison with officials at Mumbai and Vadodara airport. 
 
 Khushi, who studied fashion designing in the US, had settled in Mumbai for the last five years where she had opened a boutique named ‘Khushi Z.’ She was on a professional assignment along with four others to Istanbul.
 
 Khushi’s brother Akshay and her cousin left for Istanbul in a morning flight on Monday while the the ministry of external   in the Turkish capital were in constant touch with the family in Vadodara to bring back her body to India. 
 
 “Both of them have reached Istanbul and they have started the process to bring her body back. We expect their arrival by Wednesday,” said Nishant Ramani, business partner and close friend of Ashwin Shah, who is into chemical business.
 
 “I have asked Indian Ambassador in Turkey, Rahul Kulshreshth, to receive the families at the airport and make all arrangements,” Swaraj tweeted on Sunday night. “I have also spoken to Shri Ashok Shah father of Ms.Khushi Shah and conveyed our condolences (sic),” she had earlier tweeted.
 
 Vadodara district collector Lochan Sehra also met the family members at their house in Sevasi. 
 
 Bollywood mourns her death
 
 Vadodara: Khushi Shah was a promising fashion designer who had made her mark even in Bollywood. Mumbai-based Khushi had presented her collection at the   in 2012. In June, she had also designed a suit for businessman and husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty - Raj Kundra.
 
 “Shocked to hear my dear friend and designer @KHUSHIZ1 died in the Istanbul attack #RIP what horrible news to start the year!,” tweeted Kundra. 
 
 “Life is so unpredictable. My heart goes out to the families that have lost their near and dear ones. RIP @KHUSHIZ1,” Shilpa Shetty said in her tweet.
 
