NEW DELHI: For a year,   has been running from pillar to post asking for justice for his son   who drowned in the septic tank at   on January 30, 2016. Disheartened by the slow probe, he has now planned to move to the   seeking a chargesheet in the case.

 Meena and his wife, Mamata, have become loners and don’t even visit their relatives as they are reminded of their six-year-old child. “I could not bear the sight of his empty room, so we shifted to a new apartment,” said Meena, who works in the radiology department at AIIMS.
 
 The couple was blessed with a son last Christmas, who they believe is Devyansh reincarnated. “He even looks like Devyansh. We have named him Dev in his brother’s memory. When he grows up, I will tell him about how Devyansh died. I won’t be amazed if he is able to recall whatever happened that day,” Meena said.
 
 “The people responsible for my son’s death are still roaming freely. The inquiry seems to have fizzled out. I wish there were stronger punishments for causing death due to negligence,” said the distraught father.
 
 After shifting to the new house in Chhatarpur, Meena even set up a room for Devyansh. “We have not removed anything, including a collage of the family made by him days before the incident. I feel he is still around,” said Mamata, looking lovingly at Devyansh’s photograph in the drawing room.
 
 The family had moved a plea in the high court seeking a CBI probe in the case, but it is still under consideration.
 
 The school authorities have informed the police that they covered the tank and have taken security measures to prevent a repeat of such an accident. 
 
 However, Meena said he will not settle for an apology. “The high court judge promised us action, but the case is at a standstill since August last year. I plan to meet the new police commissioner with a plea,” Meena said.
 
 Police said the probe was concluded after forensic reports confirmed the death was due to drowning.
 
  “We have examined all angles pointed out by the complainant and we will soon wind up the legal formalities,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
