MUMBAI: Seventy-five-year-old Darshee Laad has spent most of his life inhaling thick sooty smoke that emanates from his   at Kumbharwada in Asia’s largest slum pocket of Dharavi. He may not have to endure the relentless air pollution for long, though, if a local initiative works out as planned.

 Laad is among 350 potters who recently welcomed a prototype 27-foot-high and six-foot-wide aluminum chimney for a potter’s oven, to resolve the decades-long smoke menace. The chimney releases smoke high in the air, providing much-needed relief to potters. In a first-of-its-kind endeavour at Kumbharwada, the potters collected funds and erected the chimney for one Dinesh Ramjibhai (48).
 
 Locals said this experiment will also pave the way for 150 “deshi bhattis” or traditional potter’s ovens to be converted into modern electrical ones, which would considerably reduce pollution in the locality.
 
 “During the recent municipal corporation election, we were discussing the plight of locals when we learned about the   that potters suffer. Independent candidate Paul Raphel raised funds and erected this model chimney, which was a success,” said Mohammed Ayub Shaikh, a fabricator who designed the chimney. 
 
 Paul lost the election to Shiv Sena candidate T Jagdish and the locals ran short of funds.
 
 Paul said the chimney, which is fitted with a high-speed exhaust fan, costs Rs 35,000. He said the potters would therefore require a government subsidy as well as soft loans to afford one.
 
 “Not only the residents of Dharavi, but even the entire Sion stretch, including Sion Hospital, is affected by the smoke. In the second phase, we plan to instal electric chimneys and convert the bhattis into electrical ovens. The pollution level in the densely populated Dharavi and its surrounding areas will subsequently reduce. We need the government’s support for the purpose,” said Paul. 
 
 The potters use raw synthetic material from the textile mills of Bhiwandi as fuel as the environmentally friendly cotton is costly and scarce, which adds to the pollution. “This sticky, sooty smoke not only affects our health but has even blackened our homes. We don’t wear light coloured clothes,”' said one Ramilaben. 
 
 Dr Rakesh Kumar, director, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), gave a thumbsup to the initiative. “Emitting the gases at a higher altitude could definitely help.” He, though, added that the initiative can be further enhanced by installing an air-cleaning system in the chimneys. “Of course, that would require more funding, space, water and electricity, but such a system can reduce the quality of particulate matter,” he added. 
 
 Sion Hospital that is located in close proximity of Dharavi and almost breathes the same polluted air has a busy chest department. But there are no numbers to suggest that people from Dharavi suffer from increased respiratory or lung diseases compared to the rest of the city.
 
