PUNE: The   has sent notices to 60 lease holders, largely  , having properties on   for violating the lease norms.

 On Tuesday,   reviewed the lease rules for the government land and said the government was expected to increase the penalty or fee of these plots according to the ready reckoner rates. Senior officials of the Mantralaya stressed the rules and regulations would be drafted for these plots, after which they would be handed over to the collectorate officials.
 
 These plots were leased out to the institutions almost three to four decades ago on various conditions and for different periods. As many as 346 institutions in the district were allotted 637 hectares of land on lease. Of these, 82 were found violating the lease norms and in case of 16 matters, the   was withdrawn from the lessee. The lease was renewed in six cases and 60 lessees were issued notices.
 
 These properties are spread over nearly 54.91 hectares of government land in the district.
 
 The drive to check leased government properties was initiated by the state government, wherein collectors across the state were instructed to check the lease norms and violations in each case and penalize them. This is also an effort by the government to fill up the depleting state exchequer.
 
 “The violations mainly pertain to non-renewal of lease, not using it for the intended purpose, not initiating any construction within two years or leasing the property to another person without intimating the collector,” said resident deputy collector Rajendra Muthe.
 
 Earlier, a CAG report had cited such cases of land violations and stated that it was “official ineptness which caused loss to the public exchequer defeating the purpose of allotments.”
 
 Revenue officials said each case had been looked into minutely and action had been taken accordingly. “There have been cases where the lessee responded within the time frame and the lease was renewed,” stated the official.
 
 Besides leased land, the government has also decided to focus on the plots granted to institutions on a subsidized rate after issuing norms in each case. The revenue authorities have identified 67 cases in the district with properties spread over 147.86 hectares, where notices have been issued.
 
 In the land grant matter, there have been 1,099 cases in the district over the last three to four decades. There were 69 cases of violations reported, of which lease of two properties were withdrawn from the owner and showcause notice was issued to 67 persons.
 
 These institutions were granted government land for a particular purpose, but it was not used for the same or they had not started anything even after the two-year time frame. “Recently, there was a case near Pune University, wherein a prime property was taken back because the land was not used for the purpose it was granted,” the revenue official said.
 
