DEHRADUN: With the dip in temperatures, people warming hands at tiny bonfires on street corners and   have become commonplace. The winter, however, means struggle for the city’s homeless who are spending their nights jostling for space at railway stations and premises of   to escape the biting cold.
 
  While not a single government-run night shelter is operational in the city yet, a rain basera inaugurated by Dehradun nagar nigam a fortnight ago is also yet to be opened. Nigam officials have claimed that in spite of floating tenders repeatedly, they have been unable to find an organization to run the shelter.
  
  Talking to TOI, Dr Kailash Gunjyal, health officer, Dehradun nagar nigam, said, “The night shelter is ready but it has to operate on a public-private-partnership (PPP) mode. But we have not been able to find an interested organisation. Only a single bid has been received after we floated the tender so things could not be finalised.”
  
  Gunjyal added, “Looking at the extreme cold, we have decided that nigam staff will manage the night shelter at Patel Nagar until a suitable organisation is found. We will get approximately Rs 6 lakh per year to manage the shelter which is quite less, hence we wanted a private company to look after it.”
  
  Local residents have also expressed concern over lack of night shelters in Dehradun. Dr Mahesh Bhandari, president, Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, said, “The homeless also deserve a roof over their heads, especially in such extreme weather conditions. There was a government-run night shelter in the city which shut quite some time ago. Now there is only a single private night shelter which is being run by an NGO.”
  
  The night shelter at Patel Nagar will accommodate 150 people approximately but some rights activists said it might not suffice. Karan Kapoor, member, Making a difference by being the difference (MAD), said, “We have been working with the homeless population in the city and according to rough estimates, there are at least 500 people in the city who need these shelters. Most of them are using premises of the railway station or government hospitals to escape the cold.”
