NEW DELHI: The embattled joint secretary of   Amitabh Choudhary wanted to postpone Friday's selection committee meeting, which is supposed to pick the India ODI, T20 and India A team for the rest of the England series, by dropping a mail to board's CEO  .

 Meanwhile, an email from the BCCI on Thursday had confirmed the timing of the meeting inside the corridors of the board headquarters at Wankhede Stadium as 12:30pm, but reporters at the venue were left waiting with initial reports being that two of the five selectors had not arrived. Within an hour, news emerged that the BCCI was apparently unsure of whether the meeting could proceed as scheduled, spreading confusion all around.
 
 According to an email sent to the  's   by Johri on Friday morning, it is clear how pressure tactics were applied to delay the selection meeting.
 
 "I have received an email from Mr. Amitabh Choudhary, the joint secretary of BCCI requesting that the meeting be postponed till evening so that he can convene and attend the same," Johri said in the email.
 
 The BCCI CEO also explained the legal implication of allowing Choudhary to attend the selection meeting. "We have received differing legal advice so far as whether a person who has completed nine years as an office bearer of a State Association would be disqualified from being an office bearer of the BCCI in terms of the order dated 2nd January 2017 read with the order dated 3rd January 2017 and have been advised to seek a clarification from the Hon'ble  ," Johri wrote.
 
 "Although   has completed nine years as an office bearer of a State Association, he has not completed nine years as an office bearer of BCCI," Johri said while seeking permission from the committee whether to go ahead with the selection committee meeting or "act on the instructions of Choudhary".
 
 In reply, Gopal Sankaranarayanan said: "It is clarified that Chaudhary stands disqualified and is no longer the joint secretary of the BCCI or an office bearer of the BCCI or a State Association by virtue of the orders of the Supreme Court dated 2.1.2017 and 3.1.2017."
 
 He then told Johri: "As a result, he has no authority to interfere with the BCCI and it's functioning or with the directions of this Committee. Please proceed with the selection committee meeting as scheduled."
 
