KANPUR: Launching a tirade against chief minister  , his   counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that after four and a half years of government, suddenly one day 'bhateeja' (nephew) removed his 'chacha' (uncle) from the cabinet. 

 "It was an orchestrated family feud where bhateeja (nephew Akhilesh) presented his clean image before the people of Uttar Pradesh," Chouhan said while addressing a public gathering at Sangeet Talkies crossing in support of BJP candidate Suresh Awasthi contesting from Sisamau Assembly seat in Kanpur.
 
 Stressing that alliance between   and   could do no wonders in Uttar Pradesh, Chouhan said, "Those who were against each other in the recent past, today joined hands and become one. Those who never wanted to see each other could be seen together everywhere. All the political parties are unitedly opposing Narendra Modiji. But let me tell you, they will not be able to stop the Modi wave and get submerged in it." He urged people to vote for BJP as it is a golden opportunity for them. Narendra Modi is MP from UP and it is his government in the Centre. "Do not miss this chance. Make sure that SP and BSP do not form government here," Chouhan said.
 
 Taking a jibe at UP cabinet minister  , Shivraj said that taking his name would make him take bath. "Better don't take his name," Shivraj remarked.
 
  "Should goons be treated on the basis of their religion? This is being done for vote bank politics in UP. What has happened to Uttar Pradesh?" he asked. He said that the law and order situation is really a concern here. If police get free hand it is not possible for the criminal to indulge in crime. "Here in UP, goons are backed by politicans. There is no law and order in Uttar Pradesh."
 
 "In MP, the criminals do not dare to come out of jails. They want to stay inside. The criminals who had flee from the jail in MP had met their fate. Everyone of you had seen that," Chouhan said while recalling the incident in which eight alleged SIMI terrorists, who had escaped from the Bhopal central jail, were gunned down by the police. 
 
 
