NEW DELHI: After the Japanese, the government is looking to set up a township for   following the massive investor interest seen in the Asian giant.

 The proposed township may be part of the national manufacturing zones that have been in the making for the past few years, sources told TOI. In the past, a Korean investment cluster, on the lines of the one with Japanese companies, was planned in Neemrana.
 
 The government is planning an investor summit for companies from   early next year, where red carpet will be rolled out for companies such as  ,  , Hyundai and TYM, many of which are already in India, said sources. The event will coincide with the Korean president’s visit.
 
 Commerce & industry minister Suresh Prabhu, who was in Korea last week, has received very positive feedback with prominent leaders telling him that the “elephant has been outperforming the dragon” for the past few years, an indication that companies as well as the leadership is betting on India, sources said.
 
 The minister has already conveyed India’s keenness to finalise an improved Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA), where easier rules for exporting shrimps and textiles are seen as priorities.
 
 “The message was clear that let’s not haggle over one product and another but let’s quickly move to enhance the existing CECA,” said a source, adding that the minister underlined the need for greater engagement in view of the growing size of the Indian economy.
 
 While India and South Korea signed a bilateral trade agreement covering goods and services in 2010, they are currently negotiating ways to expand the coverage by reducing import duty on more goods. The domestic industry has been critical of the CECA given that India had a trade deficit of around $8.5 billion with Korea last year with the total volume of trade estimated at $16.8 billion.
 
 South Korea wants addition of more products such as machinery and certain kinds of steel products. Both the countries are also looking at increasing trade in services sector besides enhancing cooperation in renewable energy such as solar power.
 
