TRICHY: As the work on attaching additional sheets to rations cards is set to start across the state on Monday, the Trichy district administration has urged card holders to visit respective PDS outlets on specific days to avoid rush. 

 Informing that PDS outlets will display the details of the dates on which card holders have to appear, collector   said that the temporary arrangement is aimed at extending the usage of the existing ration card for the next six months.
 
 Though the state government had planned to push forward e ration cards from the beginning of 2017, it could not meet the deadline, making the extension necessary, he said. 
 
 The existing ration cards issued in 2005 expired in 2009. The work on attaching additional sheets has been carried out since then once every year.
 
 There are a total of 2.3 crore (2,03,00386) ration cards in circulation in the state. Out of this, Trichy district alone has 7,54,419 ration cards in use. The state government has resolved to replace these ration cards with smart cards linked with   and National Population registry. 
 
 A tahsildar from the Trichy district administration said that this is perhaps the last time that additional sheets will be affixed to the existinf ration cards. He said that smart ration cards are likely to be issue within the next six months.
 
 Chennai: Leader of opposition and DMK treasurer   lashed out at the   government for being lethargic and failing to implement the smart card scheme announced as early as 2011. In a statement issued on Sunday, Stalin demanded to know what the government did with the 318crore allocated for the purpose. Mere announcements and exhibitionism have been the hallmark of the AIADMK government, he said.
 
 He demanded that chief minister   clear the six-year long confusion and ensure immediate implementation of the smart card scheme. The essential commodities disbursed through the public distribution system were important for the poor and middle class people at a time when inflation has hit them, Stalin said and stressed that the CM give utmost importance to the smart card scheme.
 
