BENGALURU: A season-ending injury to   skipper   during Friday's   group match against   has come as a rude jolt for the former I-League champions. It has also prompted club CEO Parth Jindal to shoot off a letter to the   ( ), highlighting the plight of teams competing in a cramped schedule and extremely hot and humid conditions in Cuttack.

 Bengaluru's semifinal clash against   on Sunday will be their fourth game in six days and comes less than 48 hours after their match against Bagan. Chhetri's injury rules him out of Bengaluru's remaining AFC Cup games and the national team captain is also doubtful for India's upcoming international friendly against Lebanon (June 7) and the Asian Cup qualifier against Kyrgyzstan (June 13).
 
 In a letter to AIFF president  , secretary   and competitions director Anil Kamat, Parth voiced his concerns over the tight schedule and choosing Cuttack as the venue for the tournament. "The 4pm kick-offs have seen teams take to the pitch in temperatures as high as 42 degrees. These conditions are in no way ideal to play quality football and the whole purpose of advertising Indian football is defeated," he wrote.
 
 "In making the semifinals, Bengaluru FC are playing their fourth game in six days - a schedule that is detrimental to the players' health to say the least. Bengaluru will be playing the semifinal less than 48 hours after finishing our last group game. Meanwhile, our opponents Aizawl FC have been handed the luxury of an extra day to rest and recover. Also, this will be our third 4pm kick-off in four games and it's taking a toll on the players," Parth said.
 
 Furthermore, the Blues have to also make a trip to Kolkata to face Bagan in their AFC Cup Group E game midway through the Federation Cup on May 17 and if they defeat Aizawl, they will have to be back in Cuttack on May 21 for the final.
 
 "Bengaluru are leaders of Group E in the AFC Cup and with a bright chance of qualifying for the knockout stages, we are left with no choice but to play a full-strength team against Bagan, making it five games in 11 days," Parth said, adding that he would have had the same concern if it was Bagan competing for a spot in the AFC Cup knockouts.
 
 In a last-ditch effort to keep his team fit and injury-free for both tournaments, Parth has requested the AIFF to consider rescheduling the final to May 24, if Bengaluru reach the title clash. "This will give our team enough time to recover from what has been a taxing two weeks physically and mentally," he said.
 
