KOLKATA:   announced at the   on Friday that her government has accepted the recommendations of the   Commission of Inquiry into the police firing at Esplanade during the Jyoti Basu regime on July 21, 1993 in which 13 Congress workers were killed.

 “Action will be taken against those held responsible by the Commission. The Commission has held that there was big conspiracy ,“ the CM said, prompting speculation on what would happen to the responsible police officers, the then home secretary Manish Gupta, who happens to be a Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP now and the then home (police) minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. The CM announced on Friday that the government will spare Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and Jyoti Basu.
 
 Mamata also announced that the government will drop all the criminal cases pending against protesters as recommended by the Commission. Around 400 such cases are pending with Taltala, Hare Street, Hastings and Burrabazar police stations.
 
 The announcement, however, has sparked a controversy in legal and political circles. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights (CPDR) has already expressed its dismay over the CM's making the Commission report public without placing it in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly . “Under the Commission of Inquiries Act, the government is liable to place the Commission report and its recommendations in the legislature. The legislature has to decide if it will accept the report. There are instances where the legislature didn't accept the   on Wakf properties in Bengal. The CM's making it public is thus bad in law and it has no legal value,“ said high court lawyer Arunava Ghosh.
 
 Even if the legislature accepts the Commission's recommendations, given the ruling Tri sion's recommendations, given the ruling Trinamool's strength in the assembly , the government has to lodge an FIR and conduct investigation against the accused before fixing responsibilities. According to sources close to the development, Justice Sushanta Chatterjee Commission didn't hold individuals responsible for the act. Instead, the Commission held that those in the home department, officials in the control room at Lalbazar and those on the spot during the firing are “jointly and severally“ responsible. “I have no access to the report. But from the leaks it appears the Commission's recommendation is of civil nature. Now the government has to lodge an FIR against unknown and conduct the probe,“ a retired Calcutta high court judge said.
 
 Officials pointed out that the Justice Chatterjee Commission report was gathering dust for three years since December 2014 at Nabanna till CM announced it on Friday . The CM, however, scaled down the amount of compensation to each of the victim families to Rs 2 lakh when the Commission had recommended Rs 25 lakh compensation for each.
 
