Karan Johar’s ' ', starring   and  , and helmed by  , is an instalment of the ‘Ki Dulhania’ franchise. The first in the series was '  Ki Dulhania' ('HSKD') two years ago. It clicked with the audience in a big way which led the film’s makers to construct another one and extend the franchise. While the first film was a love story that paid homage to 'Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge', this one is a more mature and responsible take on love, revolving around the aspect of respect in every relationship, especially the one between life partners. 

 
  
 
 
 
 Alia Bhatt: Often, we say ‘I love you’ without realising what we’re saying. Love comes with a lot of responsibility. 'HSKD' had a lot of puppy love. In this movie, we’re in a more mature space. It’s a responsible love story. It’s not easy to love someone because it entails a lot more than just love. When you grow older, you realise that a relationship is more than just loving someone.
 Varun Dhawan: Emotion wise, you can’t do melodrama now. I think that’s the USP of 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' and it’s because we have a director like Shashank Khaitan. He is from a small town, so he’s able to capture the pulse of it, yet his sensibility is such that he can make the film extravagant. 
 
 
  
 Shashank Khaitan: 
 When I came up with the story, it had nothing to do with any franchise. It’s a love story, the theme being of love and marriage, and respect in a relationship. When I shared the script with Karan, he felt there was a certain warmth and suggested the title 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania'. We took a few days to live with the title, to see if it works. I fell in love with the title. The film is not an extension of 'Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania'. Badrinath and Vaidehi are different characters, in a new world and respect in the relationship is important for this love stories to be successful. I’m happy with the response the trailers and the songs have garnered. I hope more and more people come to see the film and take back the message. It’s an entertainer for the entire family; for the young and old alike.” 
 
 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania', produced by Dharma Productions, releases March 10. 
 
  
  
 
 
