PANCHKULA: For the first time in the Tricity, Mata   will receive donations through Paytm on this Navratra, starting from Tuesday.

 Following the   to make devotees cashless in the temple, Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board officials said the Paytm barcodes have been placed at main donation counters and boxes. Officials said, through Paytm, the money will directly go to the Mata Mansa Devi Temple’s official account which will save time for the management to count donations or take care of the amount.
 
 Officials of the shrine board further talked about the preparations done at the temple for the devotees like 30 permanent toilets, 100 temporary toilets, 50 water posts besides volunteers giving water to the devotees during they are in the queue, among other facilities.
 
 However, no   would be issued to any person to in the temple and Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVN) officials will ensure 24-hour electricity supply to the temple area without any interruption or cut. Food inspectors will ensure the quality of prasad, water and all kinds of food and eatables at the bhandara places, while a team of doctors from general hospital, Sector 6, will install their medical camp around the temple premises for all the nine days to ensure medical services to the people.
 
 Assistant controller from Ambala Weight and Measures will remain to ensure   and counting by the shopkeepers in and around temple and a proper ban on manufacture, sale, distributors, stock and usage of plastic carry bags would be ensured by the administration.
 
 Along with this, deputy commissioner of police, Anil Kumar Dhawan, said the force of 700 cops will guard the temple from unsocial elements and further said that assistant commissioner of police level officer will work round the clock with the assistance of inspectors and other staff. Along with this, home guards will help them in managing the law and order in parking areas, managing the devotees queue and cops in civil dress will help in avoiding theft, snatching, pick pocketing and eve-teasing.
 
 Maps would be installed to guide the persons, sweepers from municipal corporation would take care of the sanitation, three fire tenders would be installed at Mansa Devi Temple and one at Kali Mata Temple, Kalka. Holticulture division will make arrangement for decoration of temple and landscapes nearby. Wildlife department will take care of the wild animals like Neelgai, monkeys, wild boars and bees. Maintenance of roads and removal of encroachment will be managed by the HUDA (Haryana Urban Development Authority) and MC officials. Parking would be paid and will be maintained by District Child Welfare Officer and District Red Cross Society.
 
 Chief executive officer of the shrine board, V G Goel, said, “Various necessary arrangements have been made and efforts to provide best services to the devotes is our main concern.” Besides this, officials informed that celebrities including Hema Malini, devotional singer and artist like Anuradha Paudwal, Anup Jalota, Saroja Vaidyanathan and Siddharth Mohan are invited by them to entertain the devotees with devotional performances.
 
 
