BENGALURU: The city police have arrested four people, including a graduation student, who 
  on January 1. 

 Police said the accused were arrested after analysis of CCTV footage from at least 4 cameras, other than the one that recorded the incident that night. The cops also questioned some suspects before arresting the four. 
  
 Praveen Sood, city police commissioner identified the main accused as Ayyappa, a delivery boy and a student of ITI. The other three arrested are Leno, a helper in private firm, Somashekar alias Chinni, a driver and Sudesh, a delivery boy. Police are also on the lookout for two more people. 
  
  
  “When we saw the video, it was clear it was a case of molestation. The accused had been stalking the girl for a few days. The night the incident took place, they were partying by the road. When the girl got down from the autorickshaw, one of them identified her. They then followed her near her house and molested her,” he said. 
 
 One of the accused lived close to where the girl stayed and started stalking her. 
  
 Talking about the survivor, he said cops are in touch with survivor. “We have got in touch with her following the arrest of these men, we have got in touch with her. We had to take some time to build confidence and she will cooperating with the investigation,” said Sood.
 
 
  
 Meanwhile, the city police chief revealed that four suo moto cases have been registered in connection with the 
  based on media reports. 
 
 Two cases were registered in Cubbon Park, one case each in Ashok Nagar and Indira Nagar. “We have been trying to contact people, who have been writing on social media and on spoken on media, but they haven't responded," he said. 
 
 “But taking into account the details on social media and TV, we have registered cases. We have issued notices to the media houses to share the information for registering of cases. Justice can’t be served by talking in the media but by bringing the cases before the court of law,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
