MUMBAI: Former India skipper   was the chief of the national selection committee which named   as the captain of the Indian team for the T20 World Cup in   in September 2007. The rest, as they say, is history.

 On Wednesday, Vengsarkar narrated an interesting anecdote to TOI about how his attempt to 'know' the man, who he was clear, should Indian team in near future, failed miserably, because Dhoni had dozed off while sitting next to him! “When I had decided to make him the captain, I didn't know him as a person at all, so I thought I'd have a chat with him. When I heard that he was going to Mumbai from Kolkata to watch a match, I changed my flight, so that we could talk a bit. Both of us were the only ones in the 'business class' of that flight, which was two-and-half-hours long, so I thought that that was the best time to know more about him as a person,” the 116-Test veteran recalled, before revealing how Dhoni left him 'stumped.' 
 
  
  
 “However, the moment the flight took off, he dozed off, and only got up when we arrived at Mumbai. I had thought of making him the captain of the Indian team, but I couldn't talk to him!” reminisced the 60-year-old.
 
 Vengsarkar remembers a young Dhoni as a “modest, humble and well-behaved boy”. Recalling his decision to appoint Dhoni as the T20, and then the ODI captain, the former chief selector said: “At that time, we hadn't played T20 cricket at all. I wanted guys in the team who'd bring energy. I thought that Dhoni could be the person who would do that. He had not even captained at the state level, but his overall approach to the game, the way he conducted himself on the ground, impressed me. I saw the spark of a good leader in him. He had a lot of seniors in the team, and he handled them very well.”
 
 Vengsarkar was supportive of Dhoni's decision to end his captaincy career. “It's a wise call. He played cricket on his own terms and went out on his own terms too. That's the greatness of a man. When he retired from Test cricket, I wasn't happy with that decision. He could've continued as a Test cricketer. He can play for a couple of seasons for Jharkhand; that would be a great contribution from him provided he has the motivation to do that. It's up to him to call time on what has been a fantastic career,” Vengsarkar complimented.
 
 Vengsarkar, of course, didn't anticipate the massive success which Dhoni went on to enjoy for such a long time. “When you appoint 'X,' 'Y', 'Z' as the captain of the team, you do it according to your gut feeling, that this man has the potential. How he creates history, is entirely up to him. When I picked  , I didn't have an idea that he would become an all-time great, and when I selected  , I didn't know that he would go on to become the best batsman of the world,” Vengsarkar concluded.
 
