THANE: In a tough deterrent punishment to perpetrators of gender crime, a special POCSO court has sentenced three youths from the tribal area of   to three years rigorous imprisonment for outraging the modesty of a 16-year-old girl on the pretext of playing Holi in 2016. Another accused, a minor, has been referred to the juvenile justice board.

 Special POCSO judge Ashutosh Karmarkar relied entirely tosh Karmarkar relied entirely on the testimony of the girl who narrated the humiliation and harassment suffered by her and after hearing the other side, sentenced   (20),   (28) and   (21) to three years RI and a fine of Rs 500 each.
 
 Public prosecutor   informed the court that the girl hails from farmer's family and would fetch drinking water from the well a little away from her home. “On the eve of Holi on March 23, 2016, the girl and another minor, a guest at her home, went to fetch water from the well around 5pm. When the girls were walking back with pitchers on head, the accused waylaid them and started to tease them saying they would drench her with the same water. The girl protested and pleaded not to do so, but they poured the water from the pitcher on her head,“ the prosecutor said adding that “Masmare and Batra caught hold of her hands while Bond touched her inappropriately“.
 
 The girl started weeping and ran to her home and narrated the incident to her parents, who approached the local police. A case was registered under the POCSO Act as well as IPC.
 
 Four witnesses testified in the court. The accused's advocate told the court there was some quarrel between the girl's uncle and the mother of the minor accused and that since the three men are the friends of the juvenile, they have been falsely implicated.
 
 After hearing both sides, the judge said, “Going by the several materials on record, the intention of the accused has been proved and also the testimony of victim even during the cross examination remained unshattered. Also, several other evidence on record proved that the acts was committed by the accused with sexual intent.“
 
 The judge further noted, “It appears that the alleged incident is against minor girl. In order to check such type of offence in future, the accused are to be dealt with and therefore, I am not inclined to grant benefit of Probation of Offenders Act to them.“
 
