MUMBAI: Days before his retirement in March this year, former vice-president of the   (Mhada) Sambhaji Zende-Patil pronounced that a layout recreation ground (RG) in JuhuVile Parle Development Scheme was not a green space.Within two days, Mhada even signed a lease agreement for development of the plot as a residential complex.

 This was not the only layout open space Mhada had opened for development. Another plot, also in JVPD, had been leased for development in 2015.
 
 On Wednesday , the Bombay high court, while hearing two separate writ petitions which it clubbed together, quashed the March 21, 2017 order of Zende-Patil and the 2015 lease agreement of Mhada, terming them an “illegality“ and “parting away with a gold mine giving enormous benefit to private parties without the public exchequer getting slightest benefit would come within the ambit of irrationality“. The VP's order, it said, suffers on the ground of “procedural impropriety and is totally against public interest“. The Bombay high court on Wednesday quashed an order that pronounced a layout Recreation Ground in the Juhu Vile Parle Development Scheme as not a green space. A division bench of Justices B R Gavai and   directed the BMC to take a decision on the proposal submitted by former vicepresident (Mhada) Sambhaji ZendePatil's predecessor to reserve the two open spaces as layout RGs within six weeks of the order. Commending the stance taken by Save Open Spaces group and other activists, the bench said, “As it is the cities are having very less number of open spaces which are lungs of the city .We have no hesitation to hold that an attempt to destroy the open spaces meant for garden with ulterior motive would be violative of the doctrine of public trust.“
 
 The matter refers to two layout RGs, one on plot no. 6 on 9th Wireless Road, JVPD, and the other on plot no. 3 on North-South, 10th Road.While the first is spread over 22,500 sq ft, the second is over 15,129 sq ft.The open spaces barely amount to 10% of total area of the two layouts.BMC's Development Control Regulations 1967 and 1991 mandate that for an area more than 27,000 sq ft, the open space must be 15% of plot area.
 
 The two layouts comprise 13 and 19 housing societies respectively , with one sub-plot in each layout reserved as open space. In 1967, the two plots were given to the Anjuman-eShiate Ali, a trust of the Bohra community . The trust had acted as an agent to hand over plots to 57 individuals and two co-operative societies for housing low-income members of the community . However, in 1999, Mhada submitted a revised plan of the JVPD scheme to BMC for updation, showing no reservations on these two plots. BMC approved the plan with conditions.
 
 The trust first approached Mhada, saying the open space on plot no 6 was not an open space and it should be allowed to develop it. Residents approached Mhada against any such move. In 2009, Gautam Chatterjee, then VP , Mhada, upheld the residents' plea.
 
 It was around this time that the state , independent of Mhada, had allotted the open space on plot no. 6 to Parasmani Society for development.This was challenged by the trust and the government cancelled allotment to Parasmani and allotted the plot to the trust. Parasmani moved court.Mhada then invited the two to sign consent terms and develop the property . This was challenged by locals.The court stayed agreement and asked residents to file a fresh plea, The residents approached Mha da when   was VP; he directed the chief officer,  , to conduct a hearing. The chief officer   upheld the residents' claim. Mhada also wrote to BMC in 2015 to correct the layout plan and mark the open spaces. In January 2015, when Zende-Patil took over as VP , the trust approached Mhada with a plea for development of both plots. The HC observed that the Mhada VP had lost sight of the doctrine of public trust.
 
 “If the petitioners had not approached the court at the right juncture, the land-grabbers would have been successful in their design of converting scarce open piece meant for garden into a residential complex for commercial exploitation,“ reads the order. The court has quashed the lease deed executed by Mhada in favour of Juhuraj Co-op Society and Juhu Lifestyle Co-op society . It has imposed a total cost of Rs 10 lakh--Rs 4 lakh on the trust, Rs one lakh each on Mhada and Zende-Patil, and Rs 2 lakh each on Juhuraj Coop Society and Juhu Lifestyle Co-op society .
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 This is a thumping verdict against systematic attempts to grab green spaces by some developers with help from state officials entrusted with protecting public property.Residents and citizen activists of JVPD need to be commended for pursuing this case doggedly The judgment comes as a boost for citizens concerned about the fast-vanishing open spaces. 
 
