BENGALURU: Angry passengers jumped onto the tracks at   station near   on Thursday morning and held a protest for more than two hours, bringing to a halt four daily trains heading towards and coming from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna (Bengaluru city) railway station.They demanded that their train- the Dharmapuri Bengaluru DEMU -be allowed to pass first, contrary to the usual practice of being made to wait while the others whizzed past.

 Activists said the protest was a reflection of the railway infrastructure struggling to cope with the demands of commuters between Benglauru and neighbouring towns.   (SWR) authorities blamed it on the single track between Bengaluru and Hosur (60km), doubling of which has not been approved till date. Five pairs of trains ply on the track daily.
 
 The Dharmapuri-Bengaluru DEMU entered the station around 8am and within moments, passengers got off the train and onto the tracks.They said their train was being held back to facilitate the movement of other trains, which delayed their journey every day, throwing their daily schedule haywire. The protesters demanded that their train be allowed to pass before three other trains approaching the station.
 
 The other trains -Seshadri Express, Nagercoil-Bengaluru Express and Kochuveli-Bengaluru Express -were only minutes away from Carmelaram station but were stopped well in advance, averting an accident on the tracks.
 
 Umesh C, one of the passengers aboard the Dharmapuri train, said, "It is chaos every morning. The train timings are always delayed by an hour or so because the track is single and the trains pass each other within one hour between 7am and 8am in the morning. But the trains are late by an hour. This disturbs our schedules because we all depend on the local trains to go to work and back."
 
 R K Saxena, divisional railway manager of SWR said, "Because it is a single track, we operate the trains in such a way that one train arrives at the station and the other one waiting there departs.That is the standard mode of operation wherever there is a single track across India. But the passengers got down on to the other track of the station and were upset with the timetable. We had to immediately stop the other approaching trains to avert any calamity .“
 
 Saxena said the doubling of the track was not considered in the last budget because of the low density of train movement unlike the Yeshwantpur-Bengaluru-Byappanahalli and YelahankaYeshwantpur lines.
 
 HSR Layout police rushed to the spot and made way for train services to resume. “What irked the commuters was the daily delay," a police officer said. "There are four trains that pass by Sarjapura, Bellandur and Anekal between 7am and 8am but they are always late and come between 9am and 10am instead. We promised the protesters that we would convey their concerns to the railway authorities and got them to board the train."
 
