The leak of information on budget proposals can attract offences under the Official Secrets Act, 1923. The Punjab-Haryana high court (Nand Lal More vs the state, 1963) and the Kerala high court (State of Kerala vs K  , 1960) had given verdicts to this effect while considering cases of disseminating and using information from the budget before it is made public.

 The case that came up before the Punjab-Haryana high court pertained to leaking information about the proposals in the 1955-56 Union budget by a foreman of the press to some business personnel through middlemen. The offences listed against the accused included disclosure of official secret (section 5.4), spying (section 3.4), use of official secret received (5.2), and retaining official secret (5.1.C). The high court upheld the conviction.
 
 
 
 
 In Kerala, the editor of 'Kaumudi' newspaper and correspondent were accused of publishing certain parts of the 1957-58 budget even before they were presented in the assembly. The Kerala high court discussed if the budget papers were official secrets and held that they fell under the definition of official secret.
 
 “...even though there is no written rule declaring Budget papers before it is presented by the Finance Minister in the Legislature as secret documents, it has always been treated as such. On a consideration of all these evidence and the views expressed in books on Constitutional Law about the matter, we are clearly of opinion that Budget papers are “official secrets“ which cannot be published until the Budget is actually presented in the Legislature and that contravention of the same would amount to an offence under the Act,“ the judgement said.
 
 Meanwhile on Friday, it was former chief minister   who brought the papers to the assembly towards the end of the budget presentation. The opposition members boycotted the budget presentation and wanted the government to present a fresh budget and remove Isaac from the post.
 
 “The opposition will not accept this budget. It is just a bunch of papers which were available in the market while the finance minister was presenting the budget. The budget has lost its sanctity,“ opposition leader   said.
 
 A surprised Isaac said the allegation levelled by the opposition leader was serious and he would make a statement in the assembly after inquiring into it. However, this did not satisfy the opposition, which started reading the budget documents. This created a ruckus and the opposition walked out of the house.
 
 The opposition leader presented the budget before the media later when Isaac was presenting it inside the house.Isaac, however, did not complete his speech. Though the budget presentation ended on a sore note, Isaac put up a brave face before the media by refuting the claims. He maintained that only the budget brief had leaked and it was not a serious matter.
 
