PATNA: The 30th convocation of   National Open University (IGNOU) regional centre, Patna was organised here on Thursday. Over 9,000 students were awarded degrees, diplomas and certificates in various disciplines at the function organised at Vidyapati Bhawan. Over 600 students from Patna and other places attended the ceremony. The degrees and certificates were distributed by vice-chancellor of Magadh University Qamar Ahsan. Regional director of   Dr Qaseemuddin Haider read out the annual progress report of the university.

 PU centenary: The much-awaited centenary celebrations of Patna University (PU) would commence on April 19 with a panel discussion on ‘How to revive the old glory of PU’ and a seminar on ‘History of Patna University’. As many as 10 former vice-chancellors of PU will participate in the panel discussion. A centenary celebration committee with PU students’ welfare dean   as its head has been constituted to work out the details of the year-long celebrations. PU vice-chancellor   said the inaugural function of the celebrations will be held at 3pm at Wheeler Senate House.
 
 Ambedkar Jayanti: Central University of South Bihar celebrated the 126th birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar on its premises on Thursday. Students’ circle Renaissance organised the special event under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Harish Chandra Singh Rathore. A panel discussion on ‘Ambedkar and nation building in contemporary India’ was also organised. The main speakers were S P Srivastava, dean, School of Law and Governance, Dr Alok Kumar Gupta, associate professor, Centre for Political Studies and Dr Jitendra Ram, assistant professor, Centre for Sociological Studies.
 
 Annual day: Three meritorious students – Chanda Kumari, Chandani Kumari and Khushbu Kumari – were awarded for academic excellence during the annual day function of Bapu Smarak Mahila Uch Vidyalaya here on Thursday. Muskan Kumari lifted the best sportsperson trophy, Shrishti Kumari got award for full attendance and best uniform award went to Shivani Kumari. The prize and certificates were awarded by the administrator of Bhoomi Vikas Bank, Ajay Kumar Singh. While addressing the gathering, Singh said the government schools are doing better than the private schools. School principal Dr Minakshi Jha congratulated the students and presented the annual report of the school.
 
