GANDHINAGAR: Despite PM Narendra Modi’s clarion call for a cashless India, a cashless marketplace was elusive even at ground zero of  , the  , where representatives from over 100 countries are participating in the summit.

 Artisans from remote villages couldn’t offer the facility of cashless transactions to foreign delegates and many upmarket stores also lacked electronic points of sale for two days. Though most food joints, owned by the city’s leading food chains, had boards mentioning cashless options, many delegates were seen making payments in cash.
 
 For last two days, much noise was made about the digitization of the economy and political leaders including PM Narendra Modi won applauses for  . However, their absence was felt at the Mahatma Mandir campus itself.
 
 As most artisans left their stalls on the second day of the mega event, only two were left on the campus, still selling their products. One of them was Jaimal Marwada, from the remote village of Bhujodi in Kutch district, and he did not have any cashless payment options on offer. This did not hinder his sales of Kutchi embroidery. “We accept payment in cash only and people do not have a problem paying in cash,” Marwada told TOI. He added that there was no point of having a point of sale (PoS) machine handy because he would return to his native village in just two days.
 
 From Surendranagar, Kamal Parghi and his family were selling double-ikkat saris called ‘patola’. They too did not have cashless transaction facilities. “We applied to a bank for PoS machine and have been waiting for one for two months. We accept payment in cash or cheque,” Parghi said. As the prices of patolas more than Rs 8,000, some customers do not have enough cash at hand. The Parghis have got a solution to this and don’t let potential buyers go without a purchase because of this handicap. “We ask them to make payment using the swipe machine at the government outlet, Gurjari. We have an arrangement with them in this regard,” he added.
 
 The cash crunch was also felt on the campus. Many returned unhappy from the only ATM there, put up by Dena Bank. This was because they failed to withdraw money on certain types of cards.
 
