Greater Noida: Most   of   (NIU), four of whom were assaulted on Monday, have stopped attending classes. The five Nigerian students, who were booked for allegedly abducting and murdering Manish Khari (16), also belong to NIU and are not to be seen on the university campus.

 Manish, who lived in the NSG Black Cat Enclave Society of Greater Noida’s Sector Chi II died of alleged drug overdose on Saturday evening, a day after he went missing. Before he died, the boy was found in an intoxiocated state in the society surroundings, residents said.
 
 Usman, Amir, Kabir, Abdul and Sayeed were picked up based on a complaint by the victim’s family members, who alleged that they had drugged the boy after abducting him. The five were released a day later for want of evidence.
 
 As one enters the premises of the grand university building decorated with flags of multiple countries, students from different states are visible but Africans are nowhere to be seen.
 
 A Kashmiri student of civil engineering, who requested anonymity, told TOI that there were about 1,000 African students but most of them were not coming to the university since Monday.
 
 “Some are our friends. We exchange notes whenever we meet, they invite us home. As far as we are concerned, they have been good to us,” he said.
 
 Some students said the Africans were too scared to step out of their homes and that they were helping them with getting food and other essential items.
 
 While many Indian students are all praise for their African friends, describing them as easy-going and friendly, there are others who link them with drugs.
 
 Some local students said the mob fury over Manish’s death was justified. Saying that the ‘Nigerians’ too had gone wrong, a student from Surajpur, who did not wish to be named, said, “The boy had died since he was drugged by the Nigerians.”
 
 Some students, however, admitted that drugs were not only consumed by the African students but local Indian nationals too. “If drugs are available, it means the locals are supplying them. Drug trade flourishes near university campuses because of police inaction,” a student of BArch said.
 
 Meanwhile, Manish’s family, which used to live in B-16, has left the NSG society, where an uneasy calm prevails. Some residents claimed that the Nigerians staying in the neighbourhood used to signal to Manish’s elder brother to meet them.
 
 “Manish was not at all a naughty person or an extrovert. He would mostly remain indoors. We have never heard of any misdemeanour by him. His elder brother has told us the Nigerians would gesture to him when he passed by their house. They were seen intoxicated most of the time,” said an elderly resident of the society.
 
 The accused Nigerian students, who still face the charges against them, have left the society. On Thursday, some shoes and empty soft drink bottles were strewn around the house, B-14, where they used to live.
 
 
