PATNA: At a time when CM   is pursuing with the Centre the issue of de-siltation of the Ganga to prevent annual floods in Bihar, the   (IEA) has proposed a ‘river basin management model’ to tackle the problem. The IEA has just fallen short of faulting CM’s approach.

 In this regard, IEA is organizing an   on ‘Floods and water resources management in the eastern region of the Indian subcontinent’ here on Sunday.
 
 “Much has been discussed on the issue, but the specialists, particularly the engineers having vast experience, are going to discuss it in totality,” IEA secretary general Prabhu Shankar Maharaj said on Saturday.
 
 He said experts from neighbouring countries like Nepal and Bangladesh, besides those from IITs would also participate in the seminar. 
 
 Incidentally, on Saturday, CM Nitish discussed the issue of de-siltation of the Ganga with PM Narendra Modi. It was a follow-up to the two seminars organized on the issue by the   (WRD).
 
 The first seminar was held in Patna in February this year and its output was called Patna Declaration, while the second seminar was held in Delhi this month to chalk out the next course of action. The Patna Declaration, among other things, demanded framing of a concrete policy on the de-siltation of the Ganga besides formation of a central body for silt management.
 
 In contrast to the CM’s approach, Maharaj’s lead paper for the Sunday’s seminar points out, “Floods are constituted by a lot of water, a lot of silt and a lot of energy — all in their devastating roles. However, all these three elements are vitally important and beneficial to mankind for their life and living. If these three elements are transformed from their devastating roles to beneficial roles (by adopting basin-wise water management approach), floods will be transformed from a bane to boon.”
 
 He also blamed the state government. Citing the case of recurred floods caused by river Kosi and the need for high dam in Nepal and adoption of basin-wise approach for its water management, both in the Nepal and Indian territories, he said, “There are enough evidences and instances to show that Bihar has failed to take commensurate interest and efforts in the matter.”
 
