MELBOURNE:   believes that   and   could be the fans' favourites to reach the final but has “a gut feeling“ that this year's   would produce a “new Grand Slam champion“ in the men's draw.

 “We could be seeing a couple of amazing stories here. Federer probably winning his 18th major title, and a Federer-Nadal final. But I have a gut feeling that at the end we are going to have a winner who has never won a Grand Slam before. We are going to have a new champion, it will be good for the game,“ Ivanisevic, the 2001 Wimbledon champion who is now a coach of World No. 10  , said on Monday .
 
 Only Federer and Stan Wawrinka in the top half of the draw, and Nadal in the bottom half have won a major before.
 
 Federer, 35, has been in rousing form in his first competitive tournament on comeback after a six-month layoff and will take on 50th-ranked German Mischa Zverev in the quarterfinals on Tuesday. Zverev, a 29-year-old southpaw, knocked out World No. 1 Andy Murray with a sizzling serve and volley game on Sunday , and Ivanisevic believed Federer would be a tougher challenge for the Moscow-born journeyman.
 
 “First of all Roger is his idol. So that's an early break straight away .But Mischa has nothing to lose and he is playing the tennis of his life,“ said the 45-year-old giant from Croatia.
 
 “It is a different match-up. Andy was standing back at the baseline.Even after 10 rallies he wasn't coming up. But Roger is going to attack.
 
 “Roger plays an aggressive game and he now believes he can win this.On this court he sees his chances and his body is feeling well.“
 
 Neverthleless, Ivanisevic wasn't surprised by Zverev's shock win over Murray . “For me the bigger surprise was Djokovic losing to Uzbek Denis Istomin in second round,“ he said.“He (Zverev) almost beat Djokovic in Shanghai (Masters) last year. Andy never thought he could lose to Zverev .He wasn't 100 percent prepared. And Mischa took away his rhythm.“
 
 Did he expect Federer, returning to the game after such a long break at the age of 35, to play as well as he has done here? “Yes and no. When we talk about someone like Federer, we have to expect that,“ Ivanisevic said.
 
 
