JAIPUR: Shortage of   in government hospitals has forced the health authorities to find alternatives to help the patients in remote areas for treatment.

 Now, health department has decided to give a boost to  . The department has roped in a private firm which will help in providing treatment and consultation to patients who are living in a remote place in the state through telemedicine.
 
 The private firm will set up a central site where specialist doctors would sit and they will remain available for consultation through audio-video online system (video conference). 
 
 Health minister   said that they have identified 100 hospitals and health centres across the state which will be connected through telemedicine. The private firm is based in Kolkata, which will develop a team of specialist doctors and set up its central site in Jaipur. From the central site, the specialist doctors will be connected through video conferencing with other 100 hospitals and health centres of the state.
 
 A health department official said that if there is a nephrology patient in Baran and there is no specialist doctor available in nephrology in Baran, in such a case the doctor or paramedical staff available in Baran’s district hospital will connect the patient with specialist doctor in nephrologist in Jaipur’s central site of telemedicine through video conferencing. The patient will take consultation from the specialist doctor. The doctor at central site will also generate a prescription for the patient for his treatment.
 
 Among the 100 idenfitied hosptials and health centires covered under telemedicine are 31 district hosptials, 19 sub-division hospitals, six satellite hosptials and 44 community health centres. In the first phase, the facility will be lauched in district hosptials, satellite hosptials, sub division hosptials from July and from August, the facility will be made available in community health centres. 
 
 The specialist doctors in gynaecology, paediatrics and general medicine will remain available from 8am to 8pm, while specialist in orthopaedics, gastroenterology, oncology, endocrinology, skin, cardiologist, nephrology, neurology will be available from 11am to 4 pm.
 
