Pune: France’s consul-general Yves Perrin said on Monday that Indians were unlikely to be affected by strict immigration control sentiment that is sweeping the western world.

 Perrin was in the city to inaugurate a new visa centre in Vimannagar, run by the visa consultancy firm VFS, which partners the government of France and 15 other Schengen area countries, which have signed the common visa policy of the European Economic Area (EEA). The centre also partners governments of the UK, the US, Australia, and other countries in issuing visas to Indians.
 
 “Relations between European countries, including France and India, have traditionally been very good. More than half a million Indians have visited France in the past year for education, tourism or professional commitments. Indians have a good reputation wherever they go. So they are unlikely to be affected by any potential changes in immigration policy changes anywhere in the world,” Perrin said while speaking to reporters before the inauguration.
 
 As for his home country France, where Marine Le Pen, the right-wing hardliner on immigration who leads in the presidential polls to be held later this year, Perrin said that even there, Indians need not worry.
 
 “No matter which party comes to power, all of them have high opinion about Indians, and our diplomatic ties are excellent. Our soldiers have even participated in India’s Republic Day parade in 2016. No potential changes in immigration policies made by whichever party comes to power will affect Indians,” he added.
 
 Currently, around half a million Indians visit France every year, a number which has seen an increase almost every year. Of the 48,000 visas that Perrin’s consulate - -which covers Maharashtra, Goa, and most of central India -- issued last year, 6,000 of the applications were from Pune. VFS officials say that there is more than a two-fold increase in the number of applications from the city, since 2014, which is why all of the city’s visa operations have now been brought under one roof.
 
 Perrin added that he would like to see more Indians visit France every year for tourism and cultural exchanges, especially when compared to India’s neighbour China.
 
 “More than a million Chinese people visited France last year. About 30,000 Chinese students are in various French colleges and universities. That number is just 4,000 for India. I would definitely like to see more Indians visit France, especially for tourism and education, especially as trade between the two countries has traditionally been strong,” he concluded.
 
 
