PUDUCHERRY: The   of the   on Wednesday brushed aside Lt governor  's call to hold a debate on a series of issues including the precarious financial position of the territory, sick public sector undertakings and imbalance in urban and rural budget allocation. The speaker of the legislative assembly V   instead directed the estimate committee and public accounts committee to assess the issues raised by Bedi and submit a detailed report. 

 After Vaithilingam read out Bedi's message, AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan sought to know whether Bedi expressed desire to address the assembly. When Vaithilingam said the Lt governor had the right to address the assembly, chief minister   intervened and said Bedi had written to him in November last year expressing her desire to address the assembly on initiatives to be undertaken in making Puducherry an open defecation free territory by October 2, 2017.
 
 Narayanasamy said he requested the Lt Governor to send the address so that the cabinet could accord approval. However, the Lt governor later said she will send a message instead of addressing the assembly, he said. AIADMK MLAs led by Anbalagan insisted on holding debates on issues raised by Bedi. However the speaker refused to grant permission and they walked out of the house in protest.
 
 Bedi, in her message regretted that Puducherry has been grouped in the list of States/Union territories performing poorly towards achieving open defecation-free status by October 2, 2017. "Only about 51% of the households in the Union territory have individual household toilets. Unstinted cooperation of all elected representatives is essentially required to achieve the target," she said.
 
 Bedi said Puducherry has a legacy loan of 6,500 crore and said the Union territory spends 700 crore every year towards repayment of principal amount and interest, and it would become 1,000 crore from next year. " We should reduce our dependency on external borrowings/loans and by raising the internal resources," she said. She also insisted on evolving ways and means to recover huge investments made in sick public sector undertakings. "The UT's public sector undertakings have have so far accumulated a loss of about 500 crore. To sustain them, government is spending annually 150 crore from the budget," she said. 
 
 Pointing out imbalance in allocation of budgetary resources between urban and rural areas she said in the absence of elected local bodies, the legislative assembly has more responsibility in addressing the needs of rural populace. 
 
