IMPHAL: BJP's first list of candidates for the upcoming assembly polls has left many Muslim party workers disappointed, who said none of the aspiring candidates from the community have been recommended by the party, with the sole exception of Muslim-dominated Lilong. 

 BJP has named 31 candidates in its first list; of the remaining 29 seats for which candidates are yet to be announced, Kshetrigao in   East is the only constituency left from which a Muslim candidate, A R Khan, is seeking a ticket. Besides Khan, who is a former IAS officer and vice president of the party's state unit, N Indrajit and former MLA Th Nandakishore Singh are in the running for the ticket to the constituency.
 
 "Apart from Lilong, not one   was included in the first list notified by the party's   last week," said  , a  . Leaders from the community had sought tickets from Keirao, Wabagai and Wangkhem seats, he said, adding, "With the exclusion of our community's aspirants, we feel isolated and sidelined."
 
 Another BJP worker Abdul Latif said a large number of Muslim BJP workers have decided their allegiances will be dependent on the announcement of the candidate for the Kshetrigao seat.
 
 Hussain echoed the sentiment. "We are now waiting for the second list of candidates. All our hopes now rest with the Kshetrigao seat. If our dynamic leader A R Khan is left out of the second list, we may be forced to switch over to the other party," he said.
 
 Of the 27 lakh people in the state, the Muslim community, known as Meitei Pangal, accounts for nearly 2.5 lakh, or 8.5% of the total population. Besides Lilong, seats like Wabagai, Keirao, Kshetrigao, Wangkhen, Mayang Imphal, Andro and Moirang, all located in the valley districts, have sizeable Muslim populations - enough to turn the tide in the assembly polls.
 
 Currently, Kshetrigao, Lilong and Wabagai seats are represented by Muslim Congress MLAs. Md Abdul Nasir, representing Lilong, is a minister in the Okram Ibobi Singh government. BJP has named Md Anwar Hussain as its candidate from Lilong.
 
 Lilong was the home-turf of Md Alimuddin, who had served as Manipur's chief minister for two terms and remains the only Muslim candidate to have won from the seat till date. Muslim candidates have won six times each from Kshetrigao, Wabagai and Keirao constituencies, two times each from Mayang Imphal and Wangkhem, and one each from Andro and Moirang.
 
 A BJP leader, however, dismissed the allegations, saying the allocation of tickets is based on the potential of candidates and not community or ethnicity.
 
 
