GURUGRAM: Two   women who have come to India on a New Year break were allegedly thrashed and molested by three   and owner of a bar in Sector 29 in the early hours of Friday. The women sustained minor injuries. The four accused were arrested by police and produced in a city court that granted them bail.

 Cops said the women — both medical students in their mid-20s — had gone to the Sense of Spirits bar for dinner on Thursday night. Around 1.30 am, when one of them was going towards the washroom, two bouncers who were standing nearby passed lewd remarks at her. Later they told her that the washroom had been closed. The woman soon called her friend and both confronted the bouncers. This led to an argument and the bouncers suddenly started beating the women. Another bouncer and the bar owner soon joined them.
 
 “I was going to the washroom when the bouncers passed lewd remarks at me. Later they stopped me, saying the washroom was closed. When I called my friend and confronted them, the bouncers suddenly started slapping and punching us. They also molested us and threatened to kill us. We were in shock but we could manage to call the cops,” one of the women said in her complaint.
 
 A PCR van soon reached the spot and minutes later, a police team led by woman sub inspector  , arrived there and arrested the four accused —pub owner Sumit, and bouncers Pankaj, Sandeep and Surender.
 
 On the basis of a complaint by one of the women, an FIR has been lodged against the four accused under sections 354 A ( ), 323 (causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Sector 29 police station. 
 
 “We got a complaint and took immediate action by arresting the accused. The women and they had an argument at a local pub before the incident happened,” said inspector  , SHO of Sector 29 police station. 
 
 “We have produced all the four accused in a city court, which granted them bail,” said SI Kumari, the investigating officer.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the bar owner could not be reached for a comment.
 
 
