LUDHIANA: If British Prime Minister   hailed the “exceptional“ contribution of British Sikhs in the UK's economy, charity and armed forces as the community marked the 350th birth anniversary of Guru  , Sikhs from across the world converged on Patna Sahib, the birthplace of the 10th Sikh master.

 May also went on to describe the “Prakash Parv“ on January 5 as a “very special anniversary“.
 
 There were global celebrations by the faithful to mark the Gurpurb, but Patna had never seen a gathering of non-resident Indians. Guru's calling, one might say.
 
 The event was held in remembrance of a man who was a great warrior, who sacrificed his young sons in battling injustice, a great human being, a philosopher and the epitome of values humans value most.
 
 Among the NRIs was was Gurmustak Singh, founder of Sikhnet, who flew in from US to be a part of this celebrations.
 
 His reason to be in Patna: “To be a part of this celebration was no less than a blessing for me.Nothing could be more important for me. Patna Sahib is so important a place for the Sikhs. The three-day event was perfectly planned with Kirtan Sangam and   being taken out. That atmosphere at   was soaked in devotion. It was a celebration where people from all walks of life walked in.It was as if the urge to be here during those days was irresistible for people“.
 
 A delegation of 125 American Sikhs, affiliated to “ Sikh Dharma International“ and led by Bibi Inderjeet Kaur Yogi, emerged as the centre of attraction at the celebrations.
 
 Takht Sri Patna Sahib Management Committee felicitated Bibi Inderjeet Kaur - she is the widow of Harbhajan Singh Yogi - and their son, Bhai Kulbir Singh Yogi, with a robe of honour (siropa) for their contribution in working to disseminate tenets of the Sikh religion and its philosophy, transcending global barriers.
 
 Bibi Inderjeet Kaur said it was a great feeling to be honoured on the birth anniversary of the guru. “It shows that I am on the right path, the path shown by him“. She said she was blessed and felt pleased to notice that her delegation, men, women and children elegantly dressed in the traditional Sikh attire, was accorded a fond welcome by the gurdwara staff and devotees.
 
 Apart from reciting kirtan, some members of this delegation performed “gatka“, a part of the martial arts Nihang Sikhs excel in. Sada Sat Simran Singh Khalsa, Jagatguru Singh Khalsa and   performed kirtan.
 
 It was roundly appreciated.
 
 Manpreet Singh from Paris said words failed him in describing how perfectly things were planned. A free bus service, langar, among other things. “The kirtan in Gandhi Maiden was mesmerising. Gandhi Maiden was converted into aspiritual city and we used to be there till midnight because the ambience was so positive, powerful, and spiritual that it attracted everybody“.
 
 Another NRI who came from London, Harjit Singh, said, “ I have come for such events earlier also. The 300th anniversary of Vaisakhi at Anandpur Sahib, for instance. We specially came for this celebration and no place could be better than Patna Sahib as this is the birth place of our Guru. Gandhi Maiden was beautifully decorated, and we visited other gurdwaras, too. This is one of the most memorable and unforgettable experiences for us“.
 
 Hardeep Singh from Birmingham, UK, said they were 20 friends who came together to Patna. “It was amazing. A lot of effort had gone into making this a grand celebration. I loved listening to kirtan. The Nagar Kirtan was very well organised.“
 
 Another UK resident, also named Hardeep Singh, said it was an important day in Sikh history. “Patna Sahib celebrations were a fitting tribute to the great guru''.
 
