

 For the last three days, some 20 young men and women have been camping outside gate no. 8 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. They are fans of Justin Bieber, the Canadian singing sensation who is scheduled to perform this evening at the  .
 
 Bieber, who was supposed to arrive in Mumbai on Sunday, has not turned up yet, but the delay has only intensified the anticipation of his fans who stand with eyes peeled, hoping to get a glimpse of him getting out of his private jet and walking into the terminal. Most chartered flights and private jets take off and land near gate no. 8, and the road outside the terminal offers a clear enough view of passengers.
 
 "We have not slept for two nights, you never know when he will arrive," said Animesh Kaushik, one among the many Beliebers keeping constant vigil outside the airport. Kaushik arrived in the city on Sunday with his sister Swarnim, 20, and after dropping their parents off at a hotel, they headed straight to the airport. "Sometimes we lie down on newspapers. I haven't showered for three days," he said, standing next to his sister who is fast asleep, her head resting on a duffel bag, oblivious to the scorching sun.
 
 Kaushik has never visited Mumbai before, but he is not interested in checking out the city's sights. Another fan, Hyderabad-based Kartik 'Justin' Gaikwad, a Commerce student, has given his final year exams a miss to be in Mumbai. "I will appear next year. I don't care about the exams," he told Mirror.
 
 Gaikwad is hosting a bunch of his friends from Hyderabad at his home in the city. Like him, Kartik's friend Sainney, 19, is not worried about his BSc exams that start from May 15.
 
 Bieber's fans, especially those who were camped outside the airport, feel that waiting for their star for a few days under a merciless sun is no big deal. "We have been waiting for Bieber to arrive for seven years. What's a few days," said Megha Dutta, 18, from Assam. She said that the measure of a true Bieber fan is not the amount of trivia one knows about him. "What matters is that you are always there to support him."
 
 The Beliebers pass time outside the airport connecting with other fans. Aishwariya, 19, from Nepal sat holding a poster with her friend Mohammed Zayed, 24, from Ahmedabad. She is eagerly looking forward to the concert, and the fact that they might have to wait a lot longer at the DY Patil Stadium - the singer is known to be temperamental, and has, at times, arrived several hours late at concerts - does not bother her. "He has changed. Besides, everyone makes mistakes. He had pressures of stardom from a young age," she said.
 
