NASHIK: City based management graduate Vinod Patil had planned to start two more   with the money he had amassed by duping gullible investors. 

 Patil, 28, was recently arrested in Mumbai and he told the police during interrogation that he had also brokered a deal with insiders in trading shares of Divinus Fabrics. 
 
 Patil was on the run since June last year after allegedly duping investors of Rs 494 crore. He fled Nashik ever since 304 investors approached the Gangapur police to register an FIR against his House of Investment for not clearing dues as promised. 
 
 The accused did not return even after his sister and wife were arrested for helping him in the scam.
 
 After the Mumbai Police arrested him on March 17, he was brought to the city by their Nashik counterparts. A court has remanded him in police custody till March 29.
 
 Investigation revealed that Patil had managed several investments even after knowing the fact that the police were looking for him and that his wife and sister were arrested. 
 
 “Patil changed his name to Umesh Sampat Shinde and rented an office at a mall in Malad. He would call the investors to meet him and present them investment plans with promises of hefty returns. This was apart from the profession as a tour guide he had adopted during his stay in Mumbai,” a police officer said.
 
 For two months, Patil had been avoiding meeting landlords as they insisted for police verification and registration agreement about the leasing out of the property. Patil had printed visiting cards in the name of   and  . 
 
 “While he claimed to be the MD of ‘Orange’, he was also the CEO of ‘Sobox’ along with one Urjit Sharma as the director of the company,” an officer said.
 
 Investigation officers said Patil had go in touch with insider traders in the share market and got investments from the already investors to get their money back.
 
 “He got in touch with an insider trader who dealt with shares of   in New Delhi. He was to get huge amount from the same using which he had plans to buy property,” an officer said. 
 
 Patil had paid Rs 1 lakh in cash and given a cheque of Rs 1 lakh for purchasing the vehicle required for tourist operation to a broker who got him a car. The cheque was not honoured.
 
 In the meantime, the police have arrested five of his agents for luring investors. Hunt for more agents is on. The economic offences wing (EOW) of Nashik Police has written to the Registrar of Companies asking it to take action against the employees who did not raise an alarm as HOI failed to file its audit reports and financial statements. The HOI, registered with ROC, was into consultancy only and not in investments. But the ROC still failed to take note of the fact that the company did not file any returns.
 
