CHENNAI: The sump in the house of   Ranganayakalu has remained dry for the past 20 days. About 50 families on  , where Ranganayakalu lives, have been checking their sumps to see if Metrowater has resumed supply. But whatever trickles down the pipes, say residents, resembles diluted coffee decoction.

 "We cannot wait for Metrowater to resume supply. We have to depend on borewells for our daily use," said Ranganayakalu.
 
 At the  , residents say homes get 500 litres of water per day. "But the water is contaminated and not suitable for use," said S Sayed Hassan, a resident. At Shastri Nagar in Adyar, residents have started depending on private water tankers. "The flow in Metro-water pipes has slowed as there is no pressure. We are calling private water tankers," said T D Babu, an Adyar resident. At Anna Nagar and Tirumangalam, residents TOI spoke to reported a dip in water supply.
 
 The situation may go from bad to worse and pipelines across the city could run dry for longer periods. Sources in Metro-water said the daily water supply in Chennai has been slashed in many areas although officially the agency maintains it is supplying the usual 830 million litres per day (MLD).
 
 A senior   engineer said the plan is to cut supply by more than 30% and supply once in two days so existing reserves can be used until June.
 
 Metro-water had reduced its supply to 580 MLD in 2013 following a poor monsoon, before resuming its regular supply of 830 MLD in 2015. Similar arrangements were made in 2001 and 2004.
 
 The measures follow a drop in the levels of city reservoirs which are at just 10% of their capacity. Also, water production at the desalination plants at Nemelli and Minjur has come down by 30% due to power failures. Water level at the   is also going down with no flow from the Cauvery. Supply from the Krishna in Andhra Pradesh was suspended just before Vardah and is yet to resume, although AP officials said Chennai will get up to 2tmcft of water in the coming months.
 
 With the fall in supply, the price of water is going up. Tanker operators are charging a premium, hiking trip costs by `200. Usually, this happens in May when there is a scarcity. Slum dwellers are also feeling the pangs. "Residents in slums where Metro-water supplies water through tankers are paying Rs 10 per pot to locals who take control of these tankers," said Guindy resident Lingaperumal. The only unfailing source of water — the desalination plants — is under threat due to power failures. The two 100 MLD plants are producing 70 MLD to 80 MLD each. "The two plants suffered damage during cyclone Vardah. We will get them back running in full capacity soon," an official said.
 
