GURUGRAM: Three persons, including a woman, lost their lives in separate   accidents in the past week.

 In the latest accident that took place early morning on Friday, a woman was crossing the road on Delhi-Jaipur expressway around Sidhrawali when she was run over by a speeding truck. 
 
 By the time an eyewitness, working in an eatery on the Jaipur side of the highway, reached the spot, the victim who had sustained severe injuries had died. She was declared brought dead when taken to a nearby hospital. 
 
 Sub-inspector Subhash Chand of Bilaspur police station said the deceased is yet to be identified. Her body has been kept in the morgue. “We have registered an FIR under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) against the unknown driver,” said Chand.
 
 In another hit-and-run case that took place at 8am on Thursday, 50-year-old Bhagwan Das was crossing the road at Rampura chowk near Kherki Daula when he was hit by a speeding SUV coming from Manesar side. He received severe injuries and was taken to Civil Hospital and then referred to Delhi’s Safdurjung hospital, where he died late in the night while undergoing treatment. 
 
 Das, who was working as a labourer in a factory in Manesar. He was from Teekamgarh, MP. 
 
 On the complaint of Ghamandi Lal, a resident of Aligarh, UP, and brother-in-law of the deceased, an FIR has been registered against the unknown driver under sections 279 (rash driving on public way) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of IPC at Kherki Daula police station.
 
 In yet another accident near Sacholi village in Sohna on Tuesday night, 28-year-old Sonu was killed after a speeding truck crashed the car he was driving from the front. The driver left the truck and fled. Sonu was driving the car while his relative Shiv Kumar was sitting in the back when they were hit. Sonu was severely hurt and was taken to government hospital in Sohna, then shifted to general hosital in Gurgaon and later referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. An FIR was registered under sections 279 and 304A at Sohna police station.
 
