KOLKATA: Red beacons atop two vehicles of Noor-ur   of Tipu Sultan mosque disappeared on Saturday morning amidst speculations that cops removed them in the morning while sources close to the imam suggested it was he who removed them after the “political leadership” chided him for violating the law.

  footage showed a few men approached Barkati’s car parked outside the mosque at 10.59am on Saturday and assisted the driver in removing the beacon. A man was also seen taking photographs with his cellphone camera.
 
 The Union cabinet had decided to scrap the practice of using red beacons by VVIPs, including the Prime Minister and the President of India, from May 1. Imam Barkati, who does not hold any constitutional or elected post, however, refused to abide by the diktat and claimed at a press conference on Thursday that he would not do so. 
 
 But the beacon was gone in less than 24 hours after the show of defiance. “Yes, I have removed the red light from both my cars. I had said that if everybody removed the beacon, so will I. After conducting a check and finding that nobody in the government was using it, I decided to remove it as well,” said Barkati.
 
 But sources in police said that cops in plainclothes went in the morning and assisted the driver in removing the red beacons.
 
 “Our officers had gone on Thursday also to request him to remove the beacon. On Friday we received instructions from our seniors to go and remove them,” said an officer.
 
 Senior Trinamool leaders are believed to have told   to remove the beacons from his vehicle though minister   who visited him in the afternoon said that Barkati removed it on his own.
 
 “He removed the beacon on his own. He said that if the chief minister does not use then even he will not use it,” said Hakim. 
 
 Several organisations of the imams openly criticised Barkati for flashing beacons on his vehicles. “He is an imam. He is setting a wrong precedent by flouting norms,” said an imam of a mosque in central Kolkata.
 
 
