Cuttack: It’s as if   FC know how to keep their supporters on their toes. After their thrilling come-from-behind 3-2 victory in the first match, the Mizoram club scripted another thrilling win in the second to book the first semifinal berth of   here on Tuesday.

 Khalid Jamil had kissed the ground, raised his hands and said a prayer after his boys scored the first goal against   in the 21st minute. That it came from a penalty and was a bit against the run of play was not a matter of concern. It was a just a sigh of relief for the Aizawl FC coach whose side had to struggle for the win against Chennai City.
 
 Although that goal was the highlight of the first half and most of the second half, little did he know that his wards were about to go through a nervous last few minutes as Churchill came back into the match, also through a penalty, in the 84th minute. But like true champions, the People’s Club sealed the tie in fashion with a diagonal cross to the tournament’s top-scorer, Laldanmawia Ralte, who put the ball in, beating the Churchill goalie in the 90th minute.
 
 The final whistle signalled heartbreak for the Derrick Pereira-coached side but it made Aizawl FC the first team to seal their place in the semifinal. Their six points put them on top of Group A, with East Bengal on four and Churchill Brothers on one point. Chennai City have not scored a point so far.
 
 Although Churchill — for whom it was a must-win game — began with gusto, they were unable to find a breakthrough. Ansumana Kromah and Brandon Fernandes were fed with balls by Meriton Fernandes and Surchandra Singh from the middle and the wings but the goal eluded Pereira’s wards. It was also made difficult by the fact that Mahmoud al Amna and Brandon Vanlalremdika were at their creative and pacy best, respectively. 
 
 Then Aizawl were awarded a penalty when Lalruatthara was brought down in the box by Keenan Almeida. Lalram Chullova stepped in and sent goalkeeper Naveen Kumar the wrong way to earn his team the breakthrough. With Jamil livid at the touchline and asking his defenders to hold on, all Churchill’s efforts for an equalizer went in vain and the first half went in favour of the I-League champions.
 
 The late kick-off at Barabati Stadium saved the teams from the tormenting sun but it seems the teams at this tournament cannot not stay away from the vagaries of nature for long. The second half started with a downpour, which was soon accompanied by thunder and lightning. It did come to Aizawl’s help as it helped slow the match down although they also lost Vanlalremdika to a fall on the wet ground in the 74th minute. Master tactician Jamil brought in his trusted lieutenant Ashutosh Mehta, who did not feature in the first match, in place of Zohminglianna Ralte to further boost Aizawl’s defence.
 
 Kamo Bayi missed a sitter in the 58th minute with nobody but keeper Kumar to beat and it was not long before his club realized the importance of that miss. Mehta looked to have brought down Brandon in the 84th minute and Kromah made no mistake in converting the resulting penalty.
 
 The last minutes were nervous with both sides going for the winner but in the end, it was once again the Aizawl team that managed to have the last laugh.
 
 
