CHENNAI:   had a stellar role to play - 18 wickets from 8 games - when Australia pocketed its maiden World Cup title back in 1987. More importantly, that win showed that Australia could clinch a major title on the sub-continent soil. That victory laid the foundation of the golden era in Australian cricket. As  's men look to regain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, they wouldn't have to look too far for inspiration.

 "We were the underdogs going into the competition and we had a team with a lot of unknown players but we came home as world champions," McDermott told TOI. The 51-year-old felt a lot of players made their mark in not only that competition but also post it. "A lot of the players from that squad went on to have very good Test and ODI careers for Australia. Myself,  ,   who was playing for some time, Geoff Marsh, Simon O Donnell, Dean Jones, Bruce Reid all had lovely careers," he recalled.
 
 McDermott, who took 291 wickets from 71 Tests, felt the trick to succeed on Indian soil was to master the conditions. "In those days we didn't know much about reverse swing but we do now. Our bowlers are probably as good as the Indian bowlers when it comes to reversing the ball. I did reverse but I wasn't swinging it as much as some of the sub-continent fast bowlers in those times. We had toured India a year before in 1986, and knew what to expect. We obviously were very comfortable with the surroundings, the food, heat and practice facilities. I remember the England and New Zealand teams were uncomfortable and took doctors and all sorts of things," he said.
 
 For the former Australian bowling coach, the performance of   will hold the key to his team's fortunes in India. "On any given day, he bowls 145 plus most balls and swings them as well. He can reverse it both ways and I reckon he is the best bowler in the world in all three formats of the game. The Australian team has the likes of   as well and the two have bowled very well together in the summer. We just hope our spinners can be up there to complement the pace pack," he said. 
 
 
