When legendary ayurveda doctor Venkatasu bramanya made   a century ago, little did he know that the product would give the   town a brand name. The pink-coloured tooth powder, with rice husk ash as base, soon became a household name in Karnataka and its neighbouring states, and continues to be sold even now.

 The Nanjangud-based Sadvaidya sala though has switched to manufacturing tooth paste with the same ingredients, it has not junked its most popular product. Venkatasubramanya, popular as B V Pundit, got the idea of making the tooth powder during a 'homa' at a relative's place, and started manufacturing it using rice husk. He named it after the town where it was made -Nanjangud. An instant hit, he sold over 10 lakh tooth powder packets every month.
 
 The tooth powder sale has plummeted with changing lifestyle over the years but still has a loyal clientele. “ We have retained the old packagi n g g ive n its popularity,“ explains B V Pundit's grandson N B Ramagopal, Sadvaidyasala's director (operations). “Thousands of people go down the memory lane remembering the tooth powder,“ he said.
 
 Seat to the ancient Sri Srikanteshwara temple and regarded as Kashi of South India, Nanjangud, 23km from Mysuru, is split into 27 wards, and has a population of about 60,000. The civic body was recently upgraded to a municipality.
 
 The Hindu pilgrimage town has a rich history. Mythology has it that the presiding deity Nanjundeshwara drank poison to save the earth. Nanjanagud literally means the place where Nanjundeshwara (Lord Shiva), resides. Located on the banks of Kapila river, the town has transformed over the years but religiosity remains to be its core. While thousands of devotees annually visit the Sri Srikanteshwara temple, an Archeology Survey of India-protected complex, the annual car festival in summer attracts more than 2 lakh visitors.
 
 But unlike earlier, the Nanjangud banana isn't easily available in the temple town. The Nanjangud rasabale, a variety of banana which has secured Geographical Indica tion (GI) tag, has become rare in the place if its origin. A Mysuru CII survey found it's on the brink of extinction. Except for a small chunk of land near  , the banana is not cultivated across the town like earlier. Among the major problems is pest, said farmers.
 
 “Cultivation of this special variety of banana needs extra care. Though it is profitable, you have to make additional efforts to cultivate it.“ A kilogram of Nanjangud banana costs Rs 70,“ said   from Kalale, who had cultivated it two years ago.
 
