NAGPUR: Pro-Vidarbha organizations observed black day on Monday on the occasion of Maharashtra Day to renew their statehood demand.

 Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi (VIRAA) started a signature drive with human blood on a representation made to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for fulfilling long-pending demands of people of separating Vidarbha from Maharashtra. Similar protests were reported from other cities like Akola, Gondia and Yavatmal, which evoked an overwhelming response.
 
 VIRAA conducted its campaign titled ‘Raktkranti Andolan’ under founder president Shreehari Aney at its office in Dhantoli. VIRAA president Ravi Sanyal and senior members Neeraj Khandewale, Surendra Pardhi, Shailendra Harode and Sandesh Singalkar accompanied him.
 
 Later, all of them gathered at Vishnuji Ki Rasoi for a flag hoisting ceremony organized by Vidarbha Connect. It was hoisted by former the advocate general Aney, who then raised slogans along with others against the government.
 
 Senior pro-Vidarbha activists including social worker Umesh Chaube, former Nagpur University VC Haribhau Kedar, former DGP PKB Chakraborty, economist Shriniwas Khandewale, Jan Manch president Anil Kilor and others were present.
 
 The protests at Vishnuji Ki Rasoi was held under VCan president Mukesh Samarth, along with secretary Dinesh Naidu, treasurer Tejinder Singh Renu, joint secretary Smita Singalkar and executive member Firdos Mirza.
 
 Vidarbha Raja Andolan Samiti (VRAS) also hoisted a flag under its chief coordinator Ram Nevle at its office in Giripeth. Some activists like Ahmad Qader were detained by the police when they tried to burn the CM’s effigy near his home at Dharampeth.
 
 Earlier, guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule hoisted Maharashtra’s flag at Kasturchand Park. Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, police commissioner K Venkatesh, collector Sachin Kurve and others were present.
 
 Later in the evening, Aam   workers distributed copies of declaration given by Gadkari prior to Lok Sabha polls for raising demand for Vidarbha’s independence.
 
 Speaking to the media, Aney called on PM to bring proposal for Vidarbha during the next parliament session and implement resolution passed in BJP’s conclave in Bhubaneshwar for carving out a separate state.
 
  also organized cultural programmes to observe Maharashtra Day on Sunday as well as Monday.
 
 
