NEW DELHI: In a horrific crash that brought home the terror of speeding trucks on city roads past midnight, four members of a family and their driver were killed while another person was left battling for life when an out-of control dumper crashed through the central divider on NH24 near   and fell on an Innova on the opposite carriageway, crushing the SUV beyond recognition.

 The family of eight was heading home to Meerut early Wednesday morning after picking up two of their relatives, who were returning from Iran, from IGI Airport. The accused driver fled the spot and is yet to be traced.
 
 Police said the dumper truck flipped in the air after hitting the divider and fell upside down on the Innova. Under the impact, the SUV turned turtle while the truck flipped again, coming to rest on its wheels. The crash was reported by an eyewitness around 4am.
 
 Gas cutters had to be brought to cut open the mangled car and extricate the nine occupants. Five of them had died by the time they were brought out of the car.
 
 The occupants were identified as Qumar Abbas Zaidi, 55, his wife Anjum Fatima Zaidi, 50, and their children Azhar Zaidi, 18, Juhi Fatima Zaidi, 13, Lamha, 8, and Abbas Zaidi, 16. Also in the car were Qumar’s sister-in-law Anjum, 45, and her son Ali, 15, who were returning from Iran, and the driver, Mehrazuddin.
 
 Police identified the dead as Qumar, his wife Anjum and their kids Juhi and Azhar, along with the driver.
 
 Three other children, Ali, Lamha and Abbas, are said to be out of danger. They were sitting on the last seat.
 
 Lamha and Abbas were Qumar’s niece and nephew. The driver, Mehrazuddin, was known to the family as they lived in the same locality. On Tuesday night, Qumar went to Mehrazuddin’s shop and asked him if he could drive them to Delhi to pick up their relatives in his car. Mehrazuddin readily agreed.
 
 One of the survivors told the police that the truck coming from the opposite direction suddenly took a turn towards the right, cut through the traffic and broke the grilles of the divider and overturned. Before Mehrazuddin could swerve to his left in order to avoid hitting the oncoming truck, it toppled and fell on the car. The front portion of the car was heavily damaged . 
 
 Qumar and Mehrazuddin were killed instantly. The truck, which had a Haryana number, dragged the one-ton Innova along for a distance as the car’s bonnet was stuck to the truck.
 
 As the dumper, which had an MCD sticker on it rolled back on his wheels, the driver managed to escape. A team led by DCP (east) Omvir Singh has been formed to track him.
 
 “An FIR under section 304 of the IPC has been registered and efforts are being made to trace the driver,” said Ravindra Yadav, Joint Commissioner (eastern range).
 
 Police said the victims were rushed to Lal Bahadur Shashtri hospital where the younger Anjum remains critical. Cops are probing whether the errant driver had fallen asleep on the wheels or was drunk. They are also probing if the dumper’s driver was trying to save someone and ended up taking a sharp left.
 
 The CCTV footage from the adjoining areas have been recovered to identify the driver. Incidentally, there is no footage available from cameras installed along the NH-24 as they have been switched off due the ongoing Meerut highway construction work. It was found that the truck was hired by the EDMC from a private contractor who has also been contacted to identify the driver.
 
