Along with the cinematic events that have been unfolding in the State surrounding the questioning and arrest of actor Dileep, we witnessed another baffling phenomenon — that of gleeful crowds thronging every public spot the actor was taken to, from the police station to the sub-jail. 

 An entire stretch of the arterial MG Road in Kochi was blocked in Kochi for hours recently when news spread that Dileep was being brought for evidence collection at a hotel there. And wherever he showed up, the crowds booed and hooted, almost as though they were at Kaloor stadium watching a cricket match. What is it that prompts thousands to leave everything and spend hours waiting for a glimpse of someone who has not even been convicted yet? Is it outrage at the star for allegedly plotting the assault of a woman, or is it plain joy at seeing the fall of someone rich and famous? 
 
 It is undoubtedly the latter, according to Maala Parvathy, psychologist and actor. “We never knew so many people were concerned about the safety of women!” she says, tongue firmly in cheek. “I notice a kind of joy on the faces of these people, but is it something to be celebrated, the fact that we have a criminal among us? It should be a matter of fear and concern.” If all these people were actually women-friendly, there wouldn’t be so many crimes against women in our country, she adds.
  This doesn’t mean that the accused is innocent, she is quick to add. “If he is guilty, he should be punished, 100 %. It is a heinous crime. But this mass hysteria is cruel, to say the least,” says Parvathy.
 
 And it is purely   that is behind this phenomenon, according to her. “If you call aside one person from the crowd and ask him his opinion, he might say this is all a bit too much. But to be a hero in front of cameras, he might boo.”
 
  
  
 However, writer Paul Zachariah is of the opinion that there is an inherent blood thirst inside everyone which only surfaces during such incidents. “Saritha Nair was also hounded and booed like this and Dileep is just the new candidate. The average lower middle class and middle class people are a credulous lot, and such incidents only awaken this blood thirst,” he says. “It is now being made out that he is the biggest enemy of society. If he is guilty, he will be punished, but there is a legal system here, let’s be patient.”
 One of the most popular film characters of the recent past has been the one played by Ramesh Pisharody in Amar Akbar Anthony, who pretends to be Mr Clean but turns out to be a drug dealer. 
 
 Dileep has been compared to the character in memes, and in real life too, people derive a kind of sadistic pleasure in seeing someone successful fall, many feel. “There is a certain sense of victory involved in knowing that ‘he’ is worse than us,” says Parvathy.
 
 And there is yet another reason for the envy, says Parvathy. Dileep managed to marry two of the most beautiful and popular actresses of Malayalam cinema, Manju Warrier and Kavya Madhavan! “A good number of Malayali men are jealous of him, because of this. So to see him fall is a different level of pleasure altogether. Another celebrity might not have attracted the same amount of crowds,” she says.
 
 Regardless of whether Dileep is guilty of not, the kind of behaviour exhibited by the public in the past few days is nothing short of obnoxious, most agree. “It’s anti-human and anti-civilisation,” says Zachariah, while James Vadakkancherry, criminologist, feels that Malayalis seem to have all the time in the world. “Curiosity is human, but in our country, our climatic conditions are favourable for people to hang around outdoors. There are no recreational activities or spots, and a lot of idlers are just waiting for something like this.”
 
 Anger at the attack on a woman is fine, but this is not the way to channel it, says Dr CJ John, psychiatrist. “People should show the same enthusiasm to react when a woman is attacked in front of them, or when they see injustice. What we see is a mental disease, the same kind you see in trolling celebrities who make a slip of the tongue. People are becoming a moral court, just like moral police.”
 
 
 
 
 Dileep has occupied a good chunk of prime time TV in the past few days and the question on everyone’s lips has been — Does he look guilty or not? James Vadakkancherry, criminologist, also a body language expert, says that the actor’s gait and facial expressions seem to suggest confidence. “There is no fear or anxiety in his facial expressions. A criminal usually tends to look down and turn away from cameras and people. Dileep is looking around and makes no effort to hide his face. His tone of voice is also confident, unlike that of Pulsar Suni, who speaks about dying declarations. Dileep seems confident about his ultimate success.” 
 Well, but then, he is an actor, and that is what makes him different from your average criminal, if he is one, of course.
 
 
