AHMEDABAD: Yasin Bhatkal, alias Ahmed Siddibapa, has denied having a role in the July  , in which 56 persons had died. It has come to light that in a statement given to a magistrate in Athwalines, Surat, the man accused in the serial blasts case and alleged  , said that he was not   but Ahmed Siddibapa. He also denied having a role in planting bombs in Surat in 2008.

 “Bhatkal was arrested by Surat police on April 19, and was taken to Surat from Ahmedabad with regard to the planting of bombs. He was taken to a court in Athwalines as wanted to register a statement before the magistrate on April 25,” said a police source.
 
 “In his statement, under Section 164 of CrPC, Bhatkal told the magistrate that his name is Ahmed Siddibapa and not Yasin Bhatkal,” said the source.
 
 “In the statement, running to five-odd pages, he said he had never come to Gujarat before he was brought here by crime branch in connection with the serial blasts case,” said a police source.
 
 “He said he had fled to Nepal out of fear on seeing posters with his photo as a wanted terrorist of the Indian Mujahideen,” said the source.
 
 Cops said Bhatkal used many aliases including “Shah Rukh”. Gujarat police sources said Bhatkal was brought to Ahmedabad from Tihar Jail in Delhi in March 2017, as he was wanted in the July 26, 2008 city serial blasts case. On July 27, 2008, police discovered 29 unexploded bombs from various areas of Surat. Bhatkal is a key accused in the Surat case.
 
 Bhatkal is named in 30 incidents of terror across India which resulted in more than 250 deaths. He was arrested in August 2013, from near Raxual in Bihar, about 1km from the Nepal border.
 
 Bhatkal and his four associates — Asadullah Akhtar alias Haddi, Tehseen Akhtar, Ejaz Shaikh and Pakistani national Zia-ur- Rehman, alias Waqas — were sentenced to death by an NIA court in Hyderabad for the twin blasts in a marketplace in Dilsukhnagar in February 2013. Eighteen people had died and 130 were injured in the blasts.
 
 Bhatkal was in Surat police custody when his statement was recorded in front of the magistrate on April 25, said Gujarat police sources.
 
