PUNE: The   on Wednesday nominated  , a member of the iconic Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak family, as the mayoral candidate and  's Navnath Kamble as her deputy, playing a masterstroke of social engineering formula in politics.

 By nominating four-time corporator Tilak, the BJP addressed its Brahmin vote bank in Pune.
 
 At the same time, it kept along the Dalit vote bank offering the deputy mayor's post to Kamble. Tilak and Kamble filed their nomination papers for the post of mayor and deputy mayor, respectively, on Wednesday.
 
 They are certain to win with the BJP and RPI alliance having a clear majority (over 100 corporators) in the 162-member House.
 
 This will be the first instance of Pune having a mayor from the BJP.
 
 The election for both the posts is scheduled on March 15, wherein corporators would be asked to raise their hands to cast votes. Candidates with majority votes would be declared the mayor and deputy mayor.
 
 The scrutiny of nominations would be held on the day of election. Before the procedure, candidates would be given 15 minutes to withdraw nominations. The NCP-Congress combine would contest for the posts, too.The  's Nanda Lonkar would fight against Tilak and the Congress's Lata Rajguru has been pitted against Kamble.
 
 Both the parties together have 49 corporators (39 of NCP and 10 of the Congress).
 
 The  , having 10 corporators, will also vie for the posts.
 
 It has nominated Sangita Thosar and Vishal Dhanawade for the mayor and deputy mayor's post respectively.
 
 Bapat for appointment of Up-Lokayukta
 
 Guardian minister Girish Bapat said the BJP would set up a separate team to keep tabs on the execution of its civic poll manifesto and projects mentioned in it. Bapat said “Up-Lokayukta“ could be appointed in the city if required. “The chief minister has mentioned about the appointment of “UpLokayuktas“ to ensure transparency in civic bodies.The Lokayuktas are already there and they can visit any city in the state and common people can express their views before them,“ Bapat said.
 
 He also hinted at the continuation of a code of conduct for corporators of his party and judging their performance.
 
