CHENNAI: Smart Cards meant to replace paper-based family cards are yet to reach all households in Chennai. About 35% cardholders in the city have received smart cards but not before the cardholders and civil supplies department have endured a range of problems. From reluctance to seed Aadhaar card details of family members, to wrong photographs and names misspelt by the software, the process has been glitch-ridden.

 According to government data, there are about 1.95 crore family cards in   of which 20 lakh cardholders reside in Chennai and its peripheries like Sholinganallur, Perungalathur, Avadi and Tiruvouttiyur. So far, 1.02 crore family cardholders have received smart cards across the state of whom 7 lakh are in Chennai.
 
 Selvaraj, executive secretary of the   and Puducherry, said uploading the photograph of the family head for smart cards is a hassle. “The official portal where the portraits need to be submitted is slow. Even after uploading details, we did not get any authorised confirmation,” he said. “When the hard copy is submitted with officials at fair price shops, they are refusing to accept saying it has not been authorised. People are approaching government authorised e-seva centres where they pay a fee to update or correct their details. Fees range from Rs 30 to Rs 200,” he said.
 
 A civil supplies department official said the portal was slow due to heavy traffic. A mobile application, ‘TNEPS’, has been made available for accessing various services including smart cards, he said.
 
 The department of civil supplies and consumer protection has asked people to verify their photographs and spellings online after registering for smart cards by seeding Aadhaar card numbers with their respective fair price shops. While the department accessed the photograph of the family head through the  , a choice was also offered for cardholders to upload their photographs. 
 
 However, in Chennai the process has been slow. Sources in the department of civil supplies said Chennai residents are reluctant to seed Aadhaar card details of all family members unlike residents in the rest of Tamil Nadu. “More than 90% cardholders in rural areas have seeded Aadhaar details of their entire family members. But the scenario is not encouraging in Chennai,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 The department has divided cardholders into two categories — those where all the family members have provided their Aadhaar details and those who are yet to furnish all the information. Sources said, the target of delivering smart cards by June 2017 has been extended.
 
 
