PUNE: Calls for judicious use of water seem to have fallen on deaf ears yet again.

 As per the irrigation department, the city has already consumed 11.79 TMC water till date. Going by the current trend, the city will end up using another 4.58 TMC water in the next four months, taking the total to 16.37 TMC, which is way higher than it’s allocated annual quota of 11.50 TMC.
 
 “The allocated quota is more than enough compared to the national water supply standards. However, the   ( ) has been drawing additional 4.87 TMC water,” irrigation department records stated.
 
 No lessons learned
 
 For the last ten years, the city has been facing water crisis during summer. Over the last few years, citizens have had to cope with major water cuts. Despite all these, the PMC has not taken up a single initiative to resolve water crisis. On the contrary, it has resorted to temporary measures, irrigation department officials said.
 
 The department brought it to the notice of the state government that four dams providing water to city also cater irrigation needs of 74,071 hectare in Velhe, Haveli, Daund, Indapur, Baramati and  .
 
 “Water situation in Pune rural is going to worsen in May. Also, if the monsoon is delayed, the crisis is only going to aggravate. However, the state has decided not to go for water cuts in Pune. But there is a possibility of cuts in the future, depending on the situation,” said a state official. 
 
 “The PMC has imposed water cuts in the middle of the summer each year for the last five to six years. Civic officials annually announce alternate plans and measures to save water, but nothing happens once the dams are full,” Archana Mane, a homemaker, said.
 
 Sugarcane crop 
 
 Civic officials have claimed that the PMC is taking all possible efforts to convince citizens to conserve water.
 
 However, activist   said the citizens must not face water cuts because of sugar cane cultivation. “Sugar mills are encouraging water guzzling crop of cane in rural Pune and diverting city’s water. The citizens pay water tax and the onus lies on the irrigation department as well as the state government to curb water thefts,” he said.
 
