With   mulling three days a month of menstrual leaves for its working women, the   debate is back again. BT explores the pros and cons, if such a leave is implemented in India. Read on to find out what city professionals have to say...

 It’s painful, it wreaks havoc on women’s emotions and it leaves them feeling drained. For some women, menstrual pain can feel as bad as heart attacks, as observed by noted obstetrician. And guess what you do, when even talking about it makes you feel like a pariah. Remember Rachel Green of FRIENDS stating it like it should be — No uterus, no opinion. Well, reality cannot be farther from that. When it comes to women’s bodies, especially stuff that are considered sexual, all and sundry have an opinion. However, with Italy joining a bandwagon of south Asian countries, who already have a provision for   leaves in place, the talks surrounding   have started again, which is always a step towards demystifying such taboos. 
 
 
 
 The prospect of such leaves being made available to Indian women seems like a thing of fantasy. And of course jubilation for some. However, it’s not as unattainable as it sounds in our heads. In fact, companies have already opted for these flexible leave options, with some bringing in the revolution as early as 2007.   government actually has a policy, under which some departments grant Special Leaves, defined as “All women staff is eligible to avail two days of special leave every month because of biological reason. This is in addition to all the other eligible leaves.” 
 However, the debate is much larger than whether or not period leaves should be granted to women. Because, one also needs to take into account the pros and cons of such a leave, which, many activists argue, will only increase the already prevalent gender bias in workplaces. Varsha Ranjan Berry, who heads Women’s Research and Action Group (WRAG) and coordinates the work of South Asians for Human Rights (SAHR) in India says, “There is absolutely nothing abnormal about menstruation for which women should get a leave from their workplace every month. This is nothing special or extraordinary. I can understand if somebody has a health issue during their periods and would thus want to take a day or two off. But to get a paid leave every month due to their menstrual cycle? The thought itself is highly regressive.”
 
  It seems that the prospect of a period leave, for some women, would defy the entire purpose of trying to break menstrual taboos. Says Nazia Syed, who works with an IT company, “I would not opt for a   even if my workplace provided one. I don’t know how such a leave would be feasible in India, where women are already considered the weaker sex. I don’t want to be considered weaker, because I opt for a leave in lieu of being a woman. It might even hamper my career prospects!” 29-year-old Richa Kulkarni, a content developer, opines that there might be a midway we can tread, which is both empathetic towards women and yet, not a threat to productivity or the cause of equality. “I would like the option to have, may be, five to six extra leaves each year that I can use during my periods, if I feel like it. But I’m not entirely convinced about an each-month allowance,” she says. On the other hand, there are women like Mayuri Bhattacharya, project head dealing with public sanitation, who believe that it’s not just about leaves, but also about providing better accessibility. “It should be a choice for women. Because it’s about basic hygiene and amenities. How many workplaces in India have loos that provide those amenities? Some workplaces are so male dominated, that the requirement of a wastebin does not even strike them. How many offices provide sanitary napkins? Or have a proper disposal system? That way, overall, we need better HR Policies,” she asserts.
 
 
 
 In India, the organised workforce is, to put it informally, largely unorganised. Being one of the worst in work-life balance, the Indian blue collar workers already suffer from guilt trips even when opting for entitled leaves! And then, there’s the 30 phone calls from office that one has to deal with, while on a leave. In such a scenario, what does a floating holiday of a couple of days mean for companies?
  “The initiative is no doubt great. But, I am not sure if the work culture in India is mature enough to seamlessly make such a shift. Talking biologically, these leaves would have to be floating ones — women can take these leaves without prior intimation. When it comes to mid to senior level employees, who deal with deliverables, unforeseen leaves such as these can be hard to deal with. Our cultures are such that, we don’t train people to step into each other’s shoes in cases of emergency. So, it will be difficult to find someone who can take on the responsibilities of the woman employee, even for a day. However, if a company can bridge that gap, then it definitely is something we also must start thinking about,” says Snigdhodeep K, HR business partner of a private sector bank.
 
  But then, there are companies that are granting women paid period leaves already. A digital marketing agency, right here in Mumbai, introduced menstrual leaves this Women’s Day, and it has seen tremendous support both from the women and men of the company. Bansi Raja, chief happiness officer or in formal terms, the HR head, is of the opinion that it all depends on the culture of the firm. “We pride ourselves on being an employee-centric firm. We take into accounts inputs and feedbacks from our employees everytime we formulate HR policies. This happened the same way. We worked with a focus group, comprising both men and women, who were all in favour of it. So that was that, and this step of the company has been lauded a lot on social media since,” says Raja.
  But what about the output? Does that not take a beating? “What Italy’s mulling is a three days leave. But we are not in favour of exceeding a day per month,” explains Raja, adding that these leaves for their female employees come with a work-from-home clause. “It’s about enabling women to work, but from a comfortable space. So, the output is not harmed. Also, these are entitled leaves, in addition to other paid leaves, and one does not need to get them approved by anybody.”
 
 “Someone from the Women’s Rights wing has to take this issue up and present it to the two houses of Parliament, for it to become an act. And once the bill is passed in both the houses, it will then come into force. That is when every company — private or public will have to legalise menstrual leave in their policies.” — City-based lawyer
 
