KANPUR/GREATER NOIDA: A 21-year-old, first year B.Tech. student of computer science at Galgotia’s   in   allegedly committed suicide at his home in   late on Thursday night. The grief-stricken parents of the deceased alleged that their son Mahendra Pratap Singh committed suicide due to constant harassment by seniors.

 SP Crime Etawah Jitendra Srivastava said, investigation into the incident is underway. “As far as the allegations of the parents while talking to the media that their son took the extreme step owing to harsh behaviour of his seniors at the institute, we’ve not yet received any complaint in this regard. So far, we’re treating it only as a case of suicide. No suicide note has been recovered from the spot. If the parents give a complaint against students or faculty, then we will certainly undertake probe as per the norms against them and initiate action,” he said.
 
 “We had got him admitted to Galgotia’s College of Engineering and Technology in 2016. He had come home for Dussehra. Our child had called us several times and told us that the atmosphere of college was not conducive and he could not stay there anymore. He was in depression. On few occasions, we had to send our elder son to bring him home,” said Sadhna, the grief-stricken mother.
 
 On Thursday night, Mahendra went to sleep in his mother’s room but around midnight, he went to his room where he apparently hanged himself from the ceiling fan, said family members.
 
 His father Awadh Pratap Singh, a subedar in Army, and a resident of Vijaynagar, Etawah, told TOI, “He always complained to us that his seniors used to rag and make fun of him. Prior to resorting to suicide, he had even narrated about his ordeal to his mother Sadhna that whenever he went to take bath he was made to wait outside bathroom for hours by his seniors. At times he felt guilty whether he would be able to fulfill the dream of becoming a computer engineer or not.”
 
 However, Galgotias University denied allegations levelled by Mahendra’s parents saying it cannot be a case of   as the student was not a hosteller.
 
 The university said that the boy was not attending the varsity from January 2017 onwards.
 
 The university has claimed that the student had low attendance (44 per cent) and was hence debarred from appearing in the IInd semester exams.
 
 “He has not turned up for the classes since January 2017 and was debarred from the IInd term exams. We organise examinations for debarred students in August every year but the student did not fill up the form for the same. The university never received any complaint from the student,” Renu Luthra, Vice Chancellor, Galgotias University, told TOI.
 
