CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of   (CAT) on Tuesday asked the Haryana government to inform what action has been taken against the then chief secretary ( ) for granting leave travel concession (LTC) to senior bureaucrat  . The tribunal has sought this response from the state after hearing the assertions of the counsel for the Haryana government that earlier order sanctioning LTC to Khemka was wrong.

 The matter is pending before CAT in the wake of a petition filed by Khemka challenging the chief secretary’s orders withdrawing the earlier sanction of LTC in favour of his mother for visiting hometown Kolkata.
 
 The chief secretary had also asked Khemka to deposit the amount of LTC reimbursed within one month. The Centre has already informed the tribunal that Khemka was not entitled to LTC as per the rules.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on Tuesday before the CAT, Khemka argued that the state government is fully competent to sanction LTC to   officers serving in the state. Under the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the All India Services (LTC) Rules, 1975, the concession to a member of the service serving in the state shall not be inferior to the   (LTC) Rules, 1988, he contended.
 
 Further criticizing the decision of chief secretary Haryana for allowing one month gross salary to the members of All India Services serving in the state without travel, Khemka stated that such rules are immoral, arbitrary, abuse of power and undue enrichment of officers at the cost of public money.
 
 A large number of officers of the All India Services serving in the state would receive in excess of Rs two lakh without travel or incurring expenditure, he added.
 
 “The self-aggrandizing policy has been framed by the chief secretary Haryana without approval of department of personnel and training (DOPT) under which I would be entitled to Rs 2.1 lakh without incurring any expenditure on travel. But I am being mentally harassed after three years for a mere Rs 12,397 as reimbursement for expenditure incurred in actual travel from Chandigarh to Kolkata and back,” Khemka argued.
 
 Khemka had applied for sanction of LTC in favour of his dependent mother for visiting hometown Kolkata from December 12, 2013 to April 30, 2014 for the sub-block 2014-15. A relaxation was sought to prepone the date of commencement of the outward journey to December 12, 2013 on the ground of hardship caused due to her health, as being old she could not tolerate the severe winters of the north.
 
 On October 14, 2013, the then chief secretary P K Chaudhary allowed relaxation to prepone the outward journey by 20 days as requested by the applicant.
 
 However, on June 1, 2016, present chief secretary directed Khemka to deposit the amount of LTC reimbursed within one month.
 
 
