PUNE: It is time to bring out your favourite comic characters’ costumes. The second edition of the Pune   will return on March 4 and 5. This will be the first event after the Comic Con franchise in India decided to make the city a permanent fixture on the calendar.

 Comic Cons, short for comic conventions, have come to be known as an assembly of geeks and pop culture fans around the world. At the first edition of the event in the city, pop culture and comic book giants, like Marvel and DC Comics, had set up shop to feature their newest merchandise based on comic characters. The most favoured event at the convention is the cosplay competition, where contestants dress as characters from popular culture across various categories.
 
 In India, the first Comic Con kicked off in Delhi in 2011. Over six years, the Indian franchisee has extended events to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Pune.
 
 “We have expanded the event in the city. Last year, we organised a Comic Con Express event but 20,000 people turned up. In March, we will host the first event after it was made a permanent fixture on the Comic Con circuit in India,” said Kavita Kataria, spokesperson for Pune Comic Con.
 
 The winner of the cosplay competition will get to participate in the all-India event. The winner of that competition will qualify to take part in the final global event at Chicago later this year.
 
 The Comic Con will host special sessions and workshops by famous illustrators and graphic designers. The highlight of the event is the fan meet-and-greet session with David Lloyd, the British illustrator who designed and illustrated the dystopian graphic novel V For Vendetta, written by Alan Moore. Lloyd will also conduct workshops for aspiring illustrators.
 
 The event will feature workshops as well as international pop culture giants. Moreover, the organisers are also promoting established and up-and-coming Indian illustrators and comics, who will showcase and sell their work at the convention. Watch out for old favourites, like  , and newer artists like  , who designed the popular Angry Maushi character.
 
