BHUBANESWAR: The BJD has described the raids conducted by the CBI in connection with the   chit fund scam as a political vendetta by the Centre. The CBI on Thursday raided more than 25 places, including the residences of BJD leaders and that of chief minister  's close aide Saroj Sahoo, in connection with the scam.

 Taking a cue from the  , members of the youth and students' wings of the ruling party staged a demonstration outside the CBI office here and burnt the effigy of petroleum minister   in protest against the raids.
 
 During the day-long operation, the CBI, among others, raided the homes of Balasore MP Rabindra Jena, the official residence of Choudwar-Cuttack   and Sahoo, known to be a close aide of the BJD chief. This is for the first time that the BJD took to the streets and held a demonstration outside the CBI office opposing the raids. The central investigative agency had earlier arrested the party's Mayurbhanj MP Ram Chandra Hansdah, MLA Prabhat Tripathy, ex-MLA Subarna Naik and had also summoned a number of leaders, including a minister, for questioning. But no such demonstrations were held then.
 
 Analysts, though, feel the BJD is following the Trinamool Congress to counter the CBI raids. The ruling party, however, justified the demonstration saying it had reasons to suspect ulterior motive and political vendetta behind Thursday's events. 
 
 "The CBI raids meet more than the eye. We suspect that the CBI is acting under pressure from Dharmendra Pradhan and the BJP leadership to gain political mileage ahead of the rural polls. The people of Odisha have successively reposed their faith on the leadership of Naveen Patnaik and they would give a befitting reply to the BJP," BJD youth wing general secretary Bijay Nayak said.
 
 In a press release, the party also accused the BJP-led NDA government of trying to tarnish the BJD's image. 
 
 "The BJP, that failed to garner public support in Odisha even after draining money, is desperately using the CBI to try and tarnish the BJD's image. We suspect there would be more such desperate efforts by the BJP," the press release quoting party spokesperson Pratap Deb read.
 
 Stating that the BJD leaders have always cooperated with the investing agency for the past two years, Deb questioned the sudden raid and its wide publicity. Reacting to the development, BJP national secretary Suresh Pujari said it is a welcome move by the CBI and the BJD's reaction was obvious. 
 
 "I have been tracking the modus operandi of the CBI. The CBI first collects sound evidence before swinging into action so that the culprits do not escape in the trial process. The mode of operation was almost the same in West Bengal as well," Pujari said.
 
