LUCKNOW: A joint delegation of the All India Meat exporters Association and All India Jamaitul Quresh Uttar Pradesh met health minister Siddharth Nath Singh, who is also spokesperson of the  , here on Tuesday in wake of the ongoing crackdown against illegal  . Headed by Sirauddin Qureshi, national president of All India Jamaitul Quresh UP, the delegation urged the state government to go a little slow on their drive in wake of the existing circumstances. 

 On his part, the minister assured the delegation that the Yogi government was not prejudiced. "We are not working with any preconceived notions against any caste, class or religious group," he said. Singh told reporters that he would place the delegation's version before the CM and work to ensure that their genuine interests were safeguarded. We want to tell you that we believe in ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’ which means that no one is excluded in any way." 
 
 "A large number of people are associated with the business of meat -- both as consumers and industry stakeholders. While consumers are not getting meat, merchants are losing revenue. The drive has created a ripple effect as well which is making small time vendors and meat sellers struggle for life. The drive has affected leather industry as well," said Qureshi. 
 
 He also said that the association had no doubt about the intention of the government but requested the chief minister to give a thought to their plight as well. 
 
 "We agree to the contention that slaughterhouses should not be opened anywhere and everywhere because garbage generated here poses risk of disease to those in the neighbourhood. We also don't want that to happen. It is for this that we had asked for modernisation of slaughterhouses, a proposal for which is pending with the government," said Mohd Yusuf Qureshi, the state president of Jamaitul Quresh . 
 
 Mohammad Shahabuddin, who represented four slaughterhouses in Lucknow, said, "We are open to any kind of scrutiny and promise support to the cause, but urge the government to speed up the process of awarding licences to us so that the industry doesn't suffer." 
 
 The association pointed out that the process of obtaining a license from the districts was cumbersome and involved multiple windows. "We have to approach different agencies like district administration, fire office, electricity department to obtain no-objection certificates of different nature which prolongs the entire process. Thus, we request the government to think about a single window option of licensing," said Shahabuddin. 
 
