Noida:To encourage young talent in golfing, Noida Gold Course, the 18-hole, full facility institute of Noida is all set to start a program for underprivileged children across six categories of junior level training.

 Representatives of the Junior Training Program informed that a word is being sent around the schools of Noida to curate and enroll children from age 5 to 17, both boys and girls to promote the free training. The junior level training is segmented into categories according to playing skills and age and time spent in coaching.
 
 “There are children from underprivileged families who may have the drive and tenacity to ace the game, but may not be able to learn it because of a lack of financial support. For a full year’s training a child needs Rs 1 lakh. So while we are now going to select children to groom, we would also look for sponsors to help train these young talents. We will train these children with our existing students and coach a strong junior batch of players,” Amit Dube, Chairmain, Junior Training Program,   to TOI.
 
 Golf Course officers inform, there is a general increase in interest in golf among parents and children. At Noida Golf Course, in id-2016, there were 100 students enrolled. This year, the current membership is 150, marking a 50% rise in over six months. The rush for golf training for children is expected to further increase during the upcoming summer vacation. 
 
 ‘It is good to see parents taking interest in golf for their children. While children of members automatically get an exposure to the game, it is nice to see, non-members in the city bringing their children for coaching,” Steven Menezes, General Manager, Noida Golf Course, said.
 
 The golf course has been running short summer courses of a week’s training for school children. “The short one week training helps children pick up basic golfing skills. If they show a knack for it, they can be enrolled for the year. Children get to participate in a tournament every month,” Dube added. The junior’s wing is divided into three sections: beginners, intermediate and advanced.
 
 “Children, if they practice regularly, get into the right shape and ability to win a tournament after first two to three years of training. Our program helps them progress steadily to reach that level. We have churned international level winners like 8-year-old, Zara Anand, in 2016,” Dube added.
 
 
