KOCHI: The monsoon is expected in another 10 days, and the   has done little to prevent   and outbreak of   As relaying of drains and de-silting, cleaning and deepening of major canals have not been completed, there is every possibility of the city to get inundated during the heavy rains. 

 Though the local body has been undertaking drain and canal cleaning works every year, it has failed to put in place an effective system to address flooding. According to corporation councillor  , "The corporation has provided Rs 3 lakh to each division to carry out monsoon preparatory works. This amount is insufficient to execute works in divisions which have a large network of drains. The bid for cleaning large canals so far not been finalized."
 
 Works standing committee chairman P M Harris said the work of Thevara-Perandoor canal would not be executed, if it was not be possible to complete it before onset of monsoon. It has been decided to carry out the works which is estimated to cost Rs 1.26 crore.
 
 Arguing for the need to put in place a scientific system for cleaning drains and canals councillor K J Antony said at many places it had become impossible to remove heavy concrete slabs and clear the drains. The workers engaged by the local take out the slit manually. "It is high time the entire process is mechanized. The local body should use modern technology and construct the drains scientifically. The corporation is clueless about the extent of drainage network in the city and the pattern of flow of water," he said.
 
 Poornima Narayan said that once there were about 180 outlets or water bodies which opened into the sea or backwaters. Over the years the mouth of these outlets were covered by sand and silt. She said no corrective measures were taken to clear them.
 
 The councillors also said that encroachment and construction of bridges and pathway across the canals have adversely affected cleaning works. "There are no roads on the sides of the canals to take vehicles and machines required for cleaning purpose," added Antony.
 
 Studies conducted by various organizations including Cochin University of Science and Technology have found that Mullassery canal, Thevara- Perandoor canal, Karanakkodam thodu, Koithara thodu, Edappally thodu, Poorni puzha, Changadampok thodu, Kharee thodu, and Puncha thodu are heavily polluted.
 
 The studies pointed out that as drinking water pipes pass through these canals any leakage would let the contaminated water enter the pipeline network resulting in outbreak of diseases.
 
 Meanwhile, district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla said measures would be put in place to prevent dengue programme. A campaign titled 'Maalinyam Akattaam Rogangalum' will be held from May 28 to June 30. The campaigns aims to create awareness on proper waste disposal, prevention of contagious diseases and mosquito eradication.
 
 He said cleaning squads would be formed in all local bodies across Ernakulam on May 23. According to district administration 83 dengue cases from 33 panchayats and regions around Kochi Corporation. The squads will visit the areas affected by dengue on May 24 and 25 and prepare a report. The report will be presented before a meeting scheduled for May 26, and necessary follow-up actions would be taken. It would be ensured that proper waste disposal, chlorination, destruction of breeding grounds are practiced at each house.
 
