NEW DELHI: Nearly a decade-long delay in constructing a public road near the airport has come back to haunt   ( ). 

 The Delhi high court earlier this week took DIAL to task for its failure to build the road linking a nearby village to the main expressway, despite giving an undertaking in 2007 to the court.
 
  has now asked the consortium to furnish its balance sheet of past three years to enable the court to evaluate how much cost needs to be imposed on the company if its role in the delay is established beyond doubt.
 
 A bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice C Hari Shankar also fixed a deadline of October 31 for DIAL to finish building the road as per specifications spelled out earlier, adding that if it fails to adhere to the time-frame, its managing director will have to personally appear on the next date.
 
 “We are pained to note that orders passed by the court on September 14, 2007 remain uncomplied with for a period of  ,” the bench noted in its order, saying that “public interest has been gravely prejudiced in as much as a public road which DIAL was bound to construct, is stated to have not been constructed.”
 
 Indicating that the company must be penalised, the court said the delay had “undoubtedly deprived road users of necessary amenities.” It said even if the deprivation can’t be compensated in monetary terms, “judicial time which has been expended on the matter needs to be compensated.”
 
 The court’s order came on a plea filed by locals accusing the company of reneging on its earlier promise to construct the road and urging the high court to step in to issue directions. The petitioners argued that an organisation of the size and repute of DIAL has failed to abide by an undertaking given to court, urging the court to intervene. The earlier road connecting the village to NH8 had been shut down due to airport expansion operations.
 
 On its part, DIAL maintained it had constructed the peripheral road and even offered it to the south corporation but as control was not taken by SDMC, the road was vandalised. DIAL also claimed its responsibility ended with building the road while other needs such as street lighting, pavement, drainage, etc. have to be fulfilled by civic agencies. However the bench was not convinced, and said it will examine the dispute on next date of hearing.
 
 
