PANCHKULA: Residents of Kalka and Pinjore that fall on Haryana's border with   got a chance to air their problems, and present solutions to them, in front of officials of district administration, as part of a roundtable organized by The Times of India.

 The residents of Kalka, Pinjore and Amravati Enclave may have inched a step closer to solving their problems of rampant industrial pollution, heavy traffic congestion, rising crime, and an almost absolute lack of civic amenities.
 Residents of the twin towns that fall on Haryana's border with Himachal Pradesh got a chance to air their problems, and present their solutions, in front of officials of Panchkula district administration, as part of a roundtable organized by The Times of India, on Sunday . Residents sought concrete steps for treating industrial waste generated in Himachal Pradesh's Parwanoo and Baddi towns. They said inaction now could have far-reaching impact in future.
 
 Traffic congestion was another problem. Residents said there had been no reprieve from heavy traffic in the twin towns even after the construction of the Himalayan Expressway . They squarely blamed police for the traffic problem and rising crime, saying violators went unpunished. They demanded more cops at police stations in Pinjore and Amravati. Replying to this, Kalka assistant commissioner of police (ACP)   said they were aware of the problem. “Top cops know the issue well. They have raised this concern with police headquarters. Soon, there will be an increase in the number of police personnel,“ he said.
 
 The problem of a fly epidemic in   and Barwala was also raised durig the meeting. Sihvalik Manch president Vijay Bansal blamed poultries in the area for the problem. “People cannot even sit in the open. Sleeping is another problem. Despite various complaints, nothing has been done,“ he said.
 
 Apart from the ACP, other officials who attended the roundtable included: Kalka sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Richa Rathi, Haryana Pollution Control Board (PCB) regional officer Vinay Gautam, and senior deputy mayor S S Nanda. They also noted down possible solutions given by the residents and assured them of an early solution.
 
