 is a man of many moods. Especially on a day he’s had back-to-back promotional appearances. As we settled in for an interview, the actor, his honeyed eyes giving away the fatigue, asked for a short breather. “I’ll take a break for five minutes if that’s okay,” he told us, before taking off. And the man’s as good as his word. In not more than five, we were talking about Kaabil, the challenges he’s faced in life and his irresistible urge to push the boundaries. Keeping him company was his co-star Yami Gautam, five years vintage on the Bollywood shelf but promising nonetheless. Saddled low on a couch and scribbling on a notepad, the poster boy of all things suave lets us into his headspace. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  
  
 : Yeah, that was back in 2000 and it still feels amazing to be here! My dida’s wish was that my first stage appearance be in Kolkata. I’ve Bengali blood in me, so the attachment with the city goes beyond words. Wherever she is, I’m sure she’s blessing me today. I really feel for this city — the love I get here is heartening.
  
  
 
  
  
 : Yes, Kolkata has given me so much love since then. We’ve been on hectic promotional rounds, but the city’s enthusiasm is contagious. I don’t think I’m been more charged up during a promotion.
  
  
 
  
  
 : Honestly, the idea scared me at first. I wasn’t sure if I’ll be able to pull it off. I knew I had to sink in my own self after a long while — go back to my own interpretations of my life and find the character, Rohan Bhatnagar, somewhere in there. I had to look for the vulnerabilities and the strength of the character in myself and I wasn’t sure if I was up for it. But I was immensely passionate about the project. When you are passionate about something, you get through even the most difficult things. I had to let go of the crutches of acting for Kaabil. I couldn’t speak in a set style — like an Aryan from Dhoom 2 or Rajveer
  from Bang Bang or Akbar from Jodhaa Akbar. I had to be completely honest, stripped off any put-on attitude and I looked for that composure inside of me. The journey has been beautiful because it reconnected me with myself.
  
  
 
  
  
 : Most definitely. It’s not easy to fake confidence and strength on screen unless you really are. As an actor, I always feel the need to identify with the character I play, otherwise it ends up looking fake. One must live life to the fullest, find the way out of adversities, ask the right questions, seek answers — because all of this builds our character. And one day, we will get a chance to depict all that strength and willpower that got us through our worst adversities. In fact, all the characters I’ve played have been a reflection of my interpretation of myself.
  
  
 
  
  
 : No. In fact, I like pressure. They don’t say no pressure, no diamonds for nothing! It’s a precursor to any kind of magic in life. It’s always a good thing.
  
  
 
  
  
 : That’s not how I look at things. When I signed Vicky Donor, I went by my instincts. I didn’t know it’ll be a hit and success will come to me overnight. I’m very clear in my mind about the choices of films I want make — they have to challenge my creativity. But when I joined the industry, I knew I can’t get my hands on what I desire, instantly. The way to get to success is to take small stepping stones towards it.
  
  
 
  
  
 : I truly believe that the day you embrace your failures and say ‘I love you’, that’s when magic happens. And for me, that magic was Kaabil.
  
 : (Cuts in) I must tell you that Yami’s role in the film was offered to almost all the actresses in Bollywood…
  
 : And then I said yes.
  
 : So basically, true talent lies in the choices you make.
  
  
 
  
  
 : We had a coach on set and that helped a lot. But it’s interesting to note that Yami’s prep for the role was distinctly different from mine. The approach to each of our characters in the film is different. When I meet friends of mine, who are visually impaired, I realise that no two blind are the same. Sometimes you feel as if they can see you, sometimes it feels
  the opposite. I’m glad we prepped for the characters — separately, going by our own instincts. This, I believe, has resulted in a beautiful visual on screen.
  
  
 : We didn’t want to look as if we were trying too hard. Personally, I feel, the visually impaired are the strongest. In the film, too, the characters do not exhibit helplessness — in fact, their zest for life is incredible.
  
  
 
  
  
 : Well, this is a question…
  
 : That I should answer!
  
 : (Laughs) I do have a starting point to this answer but I just don’t know where to end it! The experience has been inspiriting, to say the least. I’ve been a fan of the star Hrithik is until I worked with him in the film. Since then, I’ve been a fan of the person he is. I’ve come out as a different person from this journey. To me, he is a superhuman. I have immense love and gratitude for Hrithik in my heart.
  
  
 
  
  
 : I’m come out thoroughly inspired by the unsighted. Of all the visually impaired people that I’ve met in my life, there’s been one common thing — they are always smiling. It’s unfortunate that we, as perfectly
  functioning human beings, are blind to how much they are contributing to
  the society.
  
  
 
  
  
 : All the time. And that’s a good thing. He’s driven by his life experiences and I’m driven by mine. Sure, there’s a generation gap but through communication, we are able to tweak each other. He adds ideas from his generation and I add from mine and what comes together satisfies an entire spectrum of audience. This is why our combination works so great on celluloid — I respect his school of thought and he respects mine. We might argue at times but it’s always the best thought that wins.
  
  
 
  
  
 : What’s life unless you are pushing your boundaries? It’s only through doing things out of your comfort zone that you discover your potential. We are all here for a reason. It is upon us to find that reason. I want to find my ultimate potential, to know how much I can really push myself to. Yes, I may fail but that doesn’t mean I will not bounce back. Pushing limits is a beautiful way to come closer to God.
  
  
 
  
  
 : It’s not between me and Shah Rukh on a personal level. We are just actors and our equation remains fine. Having said that, if there are two good films made, they shouldn’t clash — it’s unfair. The only people who suffer as a result of it are the audience. It’s not feasible for them to watch both movies — it’s an expensive affair. At the end of the day, the industry too loses on about `100 crore worth of money. Every film should to be allowed to do their best — such a clash is not healthy.
  
  
