VISAKHAPATNAM: If the plans of AP state government turns into reality, the port city will have a 120 metres high   soon.

 It will be highest in the country if made on the lines of those in Singapore and New Zealand.
 
 A team from Germany Huss Park Attractions is visiting Vizag to have discussions with   (Vuda) over the proposed sky tower atop the Vuda’s Kailasagiri tourism spot.
 
 Confirming this to TOI, Vuda vice-chairman T   said, “We will hold discussions with a team from Huss on February 6. We are yet to come to a decision on the proposed sky tower tourism project. It is proposed to be a 120-metres tall tower, which can accommodate nearly 70 visitors at a time. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 60 crore. The estimations may vary after talks with the German team.” 
 
 According to Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority officials, Huss, based in Bremen in Germany, is a market leader in design, development, manufacture and sale of amusement rides for theme parks.
 
 “Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority will give land for the sky tower at the proposed site of Kailasagiri. The private party will have to construct the tower,” Baburao Naidu said.
 
 The tower will facilitate a panoramic 360 degrees view of the city from 120 metres above sea level. It will also have free wifi facility.
 
 The department of tourism and Vuda have initially shortlisted three locations to set up the sky tower — Kailasagiri, Madhurawada IT Sez and Yendada. However, it zeroed in on Kailasagiri as it is one of the busiest tourism spots in the city.
 
 Vuda engineers said the sky tower is likely to be built with special materials including steel and concrete. “As Vizag lies along the Bay of Bengal, it is prone to frequent cyclones and depressions. The tower will, therefore, be built with a capacity to withstand a wind speed of nearly 250 to 300 kmph,” said a senior official of Vuda.
 
 The tower will be fully air-conditioned with hotels, restaurants, amusement parks and children’s arena. The national flag will be hoisted atop the tower.
 
 However, sources at Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority said the viability of the project hinges on financial and technical conditions. “If Huss can convince us of the two factors, the project will be considered. Money is not a matter,” a source said.
 
