PUNE: Blue Ridge Public School’s standard X student Emmanuel Stephen secured the first spot in the district and fifth in the state at the National Competitive Potential Assessment (NCPA) test, which was conducted by the   of Learning. 

 The top 30 rank holders were felicitated by Easwar Aiyar, academic head, ICAD School of Learning, during a prize distribution ceremony held at Alpabachat Bhavan recently. About 60,000 students from Maharashtra had appeared for the test based on physics, chemistry, maths and biology in November. 
 
 “I prepared using some reference books and only attempted the questions I was sure of. In future, I would like to pursue something in innovation, research or engineering,” Stephen said. He was followed by Avanish Shinde (district rank two, Maharashtra rank seven) from Blue Ridge Public School and Debaditya Bhattacharya (district rank third, Maharashtra rank 10) from Global Indian International School.
 
 In Std IX category, Yash Dabhade from   bagged the first rank in Maharashtra. He said, “The aptitude test was based on logical application. I read the newspaper daily to update my general knowledge. I studied the textbooks thoroughly to fare well in the examination.” He was followed by Vaishnavi Kulkarni (Maharashtra and district rank two) of City Pride School and Shubham Bakare (district rank three, Maharashtra rank four) of Global Indian International School.
 
 From Std VIII, the top three positions were clinched by Anirudh Dash (district rank one, Maharashtra rank three) of The Bishop's Co-Ed School, Undri, Naman Agarwal (district rank two, Maharashtra rank five) of Wisdom World School and Johann Michael (district rank three, Maharashtra rank six) of Indira National School.
 
 The first, second and third state rank holders from Std VII were Atharva Kolte of Dr Kalmadi Shamarao High School, Ganeshnagar, Manas Sinha of JSPM’s Blossom Public School and Advay Argade of SPM English School respectively.
 
 The first topper from each standard received a cash prize of Rs 21,000, the second topper received Rs 11,000 while the third prize comprised Rs 5,000. Students who stood between fourth and fifteenth spot received a cash prize of Rs 1,001 with mementos. 
 
 Aiyar interacted with parents clearing their doubts regarding coaching and choosing career streams for their wards. “I believe students should enjoy learning. Once they do that, they will not be forced to study. Try to make your work into play. If we have to work, why not enjoy it,” Aiyar said.
 
 
 
 Shamal Shinde, sports teacher, Blossom Public School, was recently awarded with the best sports teacher award by president Dada Taras of Durga Devi Festival Club, Dehu Road.
 
 Sports teachers on the occasion were recognized for their hard work, dedication and inculcating healthy lifestyles in students through daily exercises and activities. Various sports activities were promoted on the occasion.
 
 
 
 
 A blood donation camp was recently organised at Nirmala Convent School in Kharadi. The camp was inaugurated by principal Sr. Leoni. Doctors from the Sassoon hospital performed the check-ups and coordinated the activity.
 
