A   a year ago from Pune was found in the Pali district of   during a police drive against   smugglers on Sunday.

 The car was intercepted on the  . When the driver of the vehicle was quizzed, it was found that it was stolen from Chatushrungi almost a year ago.
 
 The police have arrested the 21-year-old driver of the car and will also quiz his brother, currently lodged at Jodhpur jail on charges of smuggling narcotics, to find out the nexus of vehicle thieves.
 
 “We got a tip-off about the vehicle passing through the Jawai dam area. Our team stopped the car and questioned the driver, Raju Ram. When he couldn’t produce the insurance and registration papers of the vehicle, we grew suspicious and tracked the licence plate. It was found that an FIR regarding the car was lodged in Pune six months ago,” additional SP Ataurehman told TOI over phone on Monday.
 
 “It was given to Raju by his brother Bishna (30), an opium and poppy husk smuggler. Raju was asked by his brother to sell the vehicle. He was arrested when he was on a lookout for buyers,” Ataurehman added.
 
 The police will now apply for the production warrant of Bishna. “Both brothers will be cross-examined to find out if they stole the vehicle from Pune or if it was purchased from someone. We have also intimated the Chatushrungi police so that they can also interrogate them. It was found that a few others were also arrested by them in connection to the theft of the vehicle,” he added.
 
 Senior police officers said in previous seizures of narcotics and arrest of the accused, it was found that luxury vehicles stolen from other states are being used in Pali and nearby districts for narcotics smuggling.
 
 On July 29, 2016, the Mercedes-Benz sports utility vehicle (SUV) worth Rs 85 lakh was stolen from the parking area of the JW Marriott hotel in Pune.
 
 CCTV footage showed that a fair-complexioned man of around 25-30 years of age hovering around the shelf where the car keys were kept.
 
 He picked up a key and entered the P1 parking lot. He checked the cars in the area and then went onto the P2 level where he found the SUV. He unlocked the door and drove away with it.
 
 The main suspect Satendrasingh Indersingh Shekhawat alias Sanjay (35) of Rajasthan was arrested by the Delhi police on September 13, 2016 during a nakabandi operation. But the car could not be   from him. He told the police that he used to dispose of the stolen vehicles to trusted receivers who would use them to transport narcotics from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
