Chandigarh: The UT administration will axe 71 trees for the two   of constructing an underpass from Sector 16 to Sector 17 and an Urban Park in Sector 17.

 The authority has claimed that it will plant five times more trees at the same sites.
 
 The engineering wing of the administration has already allotted the work of both of the projects. The subway will cost Rs 6 crore, while the Urban Park Rs 9.50 crore.
 
 “We have received the permission to chop the trees to kick off the projects. The minimum trees which needed to be removed for the project have been identified. We will plant five times the trees that will be axed immediately on the same locations,” said an official dealing with the project.
 
 The subway from Sector 16 Rose Garden to Sector 17 Plaza is meant to enhance tourism in both the sites and increase the footfall. The idea is to give a better connectivity to the two tourist places.
 
 The Urban Park will integrate the existing football fields, the MC green belts in first phase and police grounds and home guard’s building in the second phase to create a green space in an area of 9.1 acre.
 
 Box:
 
 Work starts soon
 
 The engineering wing of the UT administration will soon fix the reserve price to axing the trees and allot the work. “We have initiated the exercise and the work will start soon,” an official.
 
 All About The Urban Park
 
 1: Re-orientation and excavation of football stadium and using the same earth for creating earthen hillocks (public hill, skating and cycling park). The intention is to give a better look to the area
 
 2 Public hill with integrated seating and amphitheatre is another feature planned in the Urban Park. Since the area is connecting the Sector 17 ISBT, there is a plan to erect benches
 
 3: Since the area is quite open and spacious, the authority has proposed multi-purpose play fields for basketball, tennis and badminton. The football ground is situated just adjoining the proposed park. Outdoor skating and cycling park is also planned
 
 4: The existing estate office store situated inside the proposed Urban Park site is likely to be used for food court and some portion for children’s play area
 
 5: There is a plan to have pedestrian walkways with integrated landscaping elements at the site to provide proper space to people. There is also a plan for providing floodlights and video screen for hosting national level matches and digital screen in football ground
 
 
