NEW DELHI: It had all the elements of a racy Bollywood film: a lonely, married woman; a wooer and the vengeful act of kidnapping the woman’s children from outside their school. Only, this story was played out in real life in in east Delhi and came to an end on Thursday with the arrest of the besotted man who had abducted the kids to force the   to leave her husband and marry him.

 The story began two years ago when a 28-year-old housewife received a   on her phone. Curious, she called back to find a smooth talker on the other side. The caller — now identified to be 22-year-old Zakir — seemed like a fresh breeze in her dull life and the woman apparently saw no harm in striking up a friendship. Not long after, the frequency of calls increased and Zakir even rang her up at odd hours.
 
 A few weeks later, Zakir, who identified himself as Raja to the woman, professed his love for her and began to cajole her into leaving her husband and marrying him. This sudden change in tone and texture of the conversations unnerved the woman. She rejected his advances and began to distance herself from him. The youth, angered by her refusal, called her incessantly.
 
 A few days ago, the woman finally decided to respond to one such phone call. The two had a heated discussion upon which she threatened to report him to the cops. Feeling humiliated, the man hatched a plan to exact revenge. On July 18, he kidnapped the woman’s children from school. When the kids, aged 8 and 10, did not return home, the family frantically searched for them.
 
 The cops were informed and an FIR registered. Police, already working to crack the July 6 case of a doctor’s kidnapping in an Ola cab, gave the new case of abduction the highest priority. Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner (eastern range) disclosed on Friday, “The woman received a call from Zakir on July 20 threatening to kill the children if she did not leave her husband and marry him. He also warned her against complaining to police.”
 
 Spooked by the turn of events, the woman broke down before her husband and told him of her friendship with Zakir. The cops were subsequently informed about the phone call and a manhunt launched. Zakir’s phone was found switched off. The addresses he had given the woman too turned out to be fake. The cops, however, scanned the youth’s Facebook and Whatsapp accounts and got clues about his presence in Prem Nagar in Loni on Thursday evening.
 
 A team led by AK Singla, DCP (Northeast), reconnoitered the area. After a combing operation lasting several hours, the cops tracked the two children to an autorickshaw in the locality. As they were being rescued, Zakir managed to escape but was nabbed after a short chase.
 
 Police have seized 14 SIM cards, apparently purchased on the basis of forged documents, and are investigating if Zakir was blackmailing other women too.
 
