MUMBAI: A three-member inquiry panel has been set up by   to inquire into the allegations of illegal sale of implants by the brother of an orthopaedic surgeon from the hospital’s premises. The focus of the inquiry, however, seems to be more tilted towards establishing the role of the agent, rather than finding the involvement of doctors.

 Head of JJ’s orthopaedic department Dr Eknath Pawar, unit head at GT Hospital Dr Swapnil Keny and deputy superintendent Dr Vikas Maindad are on the panel. Interestingly, two of the three members are orthopaedic surgeons. “The panel will find out how a stranger was occupying an official quarters without anybody noticing it. We will also screen the entire 14-storey building to check if there are any other illegal occupants,” said Dr MB Tayade, medical superintendent of GT Hospital. Tayade assured TOI that the role of doctors will be probed and said the report is expected within three days.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, on February 2, FDA officials raided room 306 on the third floor of one of the residental buildings on the hospital premises and found Vineet Pimpale storing and selling   to patients from the JJ Group of hospitals—GT, St George and JJ hospitals—without a licence. He was also illegally staying there. Officially, room 306 has been omitted from the GT Hospital’s allotment list since long as it has been labelled as a storeroom.
 
 The role of the hostel warden, Harshad Sonawane, is likely to come under scanner. 
 
 An insider from the hospital said Pimpale may have been living in the quarters for five years or more. “He was living on the same floor as resid-ent doctors. The investigation should also find out who passed on his phone number to patients,” said the source. 
 
 Authorities of both JJ and GT hospitals claimed they had stopped dealing with Pimpale nearly a year ago, but during the raid, FDA officials found recent receipts bearing the names of the state-run hospitals. “We have seized his bill book which shows recent purchases from GT and JJ hospitals,” said Om Sadhwani, joint commissioner, FDA. Pimpale had led the FDA officials to Nanded firm Asclepious Enterprises, where implants worth Rs 1.07 crore were recovered. The firm too, did not have a licence to sell or distribute implants. 
 
 Sadhwani said the investigation net is likely to extend to Yavatmal and Ahmednagar from Nanded. The FDA is yet to file an FIR in the case.
 
 Sources said Pimpale’s br-other, who was a resident doctor at JJ’s orthopaedic department and is currently practising in Solapur, routinely urged department heads to buy implants from his brother. 
 
 Doctors have demanded the state set up a panel of independent experts. “There have been instances where surgeons have refused to operate when they were denied access to agents of their choice. The role of senior doctors must be looked into,” said a JJ alumni.
 
 
