MARGAO/PANAJI: With 11.10 lakh voters eligible to exercise their ballot on Saturday, the emergence of a new ‘silent majority’ in many constituencies has kept every political party in the fray on tenterhooks. Each outfit hopes that this inconspicuous section of the electorate will help swing the result in its favour. Even veteran poll managers are not certain of how many seats their respective parties will win this election. 

 “Crowds are no longer a barometer of a candidate’s popularity in Goa. While people may have attended rallies to listen to candidates who aspire to represent them, it’s very difficult to get a voter to reveal his political preferences,” a political commentator said.
 
 The uncanny silence of voters has baffled political analysts as well, who agree that uncertainty prevails over who will enjoy a clear edge in many constituencies.
 
 Five years ago, the mood of the voter was clear; he or she wanted a change from the   regime, which was perceived to be corrupt. Thus, the BJP came to power, capitalizing on the angst against the grand old party. Yet, although the saffron party rode on the crest of high expectations, it ultimately fell far short on performance, leading the average Goan voter to lose trust in mainstream national parties altogether. 
 
 However, this is not the first time citizens have been uncertain about which party will form the next government. For, even during the past several elections, it has been the silent voters who exercised their franchise decisively and showed many senior war horses the door. Analysts say the situation may not be very different this time, too.
 
 The only dissimilarities that mark this election are the overabundance of candidates and the non-existence of like-minded parties. For instance, six to seven candidates are vying for a single seat in several constituencies. Velim tops this list with 12 contestants. All in all, there are 251 candidates vying for a spot in the 40-member state assembly.
 
 One of the reasons for these phenomena is the Congress’ undue delay in selecting candidates and forging an alliance, giving party workers very little time to campaign. Similarly, those waiting for an alliancethe NCP and   victims of this time lapse.
 
 Now, the Congress doesn’t have to fight the NCP alone. The entry of the AAP and the manner in which it has done its groundwork, has changed the face of campaigning in the state and jolted prominent parties out of their stupor.
 
 Apart from the entry of the AAP, the crisis in the Sangh Parivar following a rebellion in the RSS over the MoI issue, has also created a high degree of ambiguity among ‘Hindutva’ supporters regarding their political preferences. 
 
 “People who had, throughout their lives, voted for the Lotus, suddenly find themselves in a bind over the choice they now have to make. While the BJP is dear to them on account of their lifelong association with the saffron ideology, the breakaway faction of the RSS also appeals to them over their stance on the MoI issue,” an observer explains. 
 
 Vishant Rajadhyax from Curchorem (name changed to protect identity), a hardcore BJP supporter, exemplifies the dilemma. “While I subscribe to the ideology of the  , its alliance with the MGP is something that is fraught with inherent risks. And even if the GSM+MGP+SS combine comes to power, going by the MGP’s opportunist attitude, what’s the guarantee that the government will last its term? If it fails, what then?” The answer evades many like Rajadhyax.
 
 While an undercurrent of change is quite palpable in some areasfor instance in Sanguem, Curchorem, Sanvordem, Cuncolim, Benaulim, Navelim, etcit is this huge interplay of variables that makes prediction difficult. The entry of AAP and GSM on Goa’s political horizon has altered the calculus of Goa’s electoral politics, as for the first time the two traditional mainstream national parties are facing a threat from new and fledgling units.
 
 It is for this reason that efforts are now on for transfer of votes. In what is called ‘strategic voting’, workers are advised to shift allegiance for a bigger objective.
 
 For instance, there are reports of the BJP supporting some independent candidates to ensure that the Congress/NCP or MGP/GSM candidate doesn’t stand a chance. This has been clearly visible in a few constituencies, such as St Andre and St Cruz. In both these constituencies, BJP workers, based on directions from the ‘top’, are going to vote for an independent candidate, sources say.
 
 In some constituencies, candidates are coming together to defeat one common enemy. In Benaulim, the contestants of two parties are planning to support Caetano ‘Caitu’ Silvawho has the subtle backing of BJP leadersto keep   at bay. Alemao’s detractors had succeeded in a similar manner in 2012 when his daughter, Valanka, was defeated.
 
 In many constituencies, the confused voter who doesn’t want the BJP to come to power, is egged on to support the AAP as he/she believes it will facilitate the defeat of the Congress. candidate. 
 
 Yet, amid all the hurly-burly, one thing is certain. For every few boisterous, slogan-shouting individuals, there are several more who have silently observed the dance of democracy and will give their verdict today.
 
