NOIDA: BJP is trying to hit upon a strategy to improve on its poor show in the 2012 assembly polls when it won only one of eight seats in   and  . 

 The   seat was won by BJP strongman Mahesh Sharma, who subsequently gave up the seat to contest the Lok Sabha election from Gautam Budh Nagar. He won, and in the subsequent bypoll for the Noida seat, BJP’s Vimla Batham was elected.
 
 Noida was the sole bright spot. BJP’s performance was particularly poor in Jewar under GB Nagar and Modi Nagar under Ghaziabad, where it came fourth. In Jewar, its candidate had managed a little over 6,000 votes.
 
 But Batham’s win came on on the back of BJP’s impressive show in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls when Narendra Modi stormed to power at the Centre. The party decisively led by huge margins in all eight assembly segments, and went on to win both the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad Lok Sabha seats.
 
 With the date for filing nominations for the state elections drawing close, speculation is rife in Ghaziabad over the choice of candidates. Numerous local BJP leaders have staked their claims for the five assembly seats. 
 
 “We’ve received an overwhelming number of applications begging for tickets. They will, however, go to suitable candidates on the basis of social and political circumstances prevalent in the respective constituencies. Various equations, including winnability of individual candidates, will be considered before tickets are finalised,” president (BJP, western UP), Bhupendra Singh, told TOI.
 
 In Gautam Budh Nagar, too, the party is exploring several names with winnability. Sources in the party said Noida MLA Batham and functionary Manoj Gupta’s names are being discussed for the Noida assembly seat. Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s son Pankaj Singh’s name is also doing the rounds.
 
 The party is discussing the names of Nawab Singh Nagar and Master Tejpal Nagar for the Dadri seat, as they have relatively sound local networks. 
 
 For Jewar, names of Harish Chandra Bhati and Shri Chand Sharma are doing the rounds. “The final list will depend on the decision of BJP’s national executive meet in Delhi. The candidates’ list may be issued on January 15,” said Vinod Sharma, Noida BJP spokesperson.
 
 Party workers in the two districts, as well as the general public, are keeping their fingers crossed about BJP’s chances of repeating its performance in the 2014 general elections. “BJP’s chances will depend a lot on candidates chosen. The entire western UP is a BSP stronghold, as was evident from the 2012 assembly poll results. There was a huge upswing for the BJP in the 2014 general elections. But in assembly polls, local issues will be considered,” Lucknow-based political analyst professor Ramesh Dixit told TOI. He said effect of demonetisation will reflect in the voting pattern. 
 
 “Voters will also consider if BJP at the Centre has actually delivered upon its promises in the past two years, while casting their ballots for the assembly polls,” he said.
 
 
