RAJKOT: Buckling under pressure from Patidars, the detection of crime branch (DCB) lodged an FIR against “unidentified“ cops in connection with the alleged custodial death of two persons ­   (19) and   (35) -who police claim were killed in a clash between their gang members over looted booty near Aji river on January 1.

 The `unidentified' policemen have been booked for murder and criminal conspiracy on Wednesday late night after Lunagariya's father Devraj and   (SPG) leader   met police commissioner  , who gave them a written assurance of an impartial probe.
 
 M J Solanki, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), has been tasked with the probe. Sources said that several policemen of Bhaktinagar and Thorala police stations as well as DCB are likely to face action in the case.
 
 Since Wednesday , majori ty of the policemen including Gehlot refused to answer calls from the media, which further fuelled reports that attempts were being made to cover-up the custodial deaths. A few policemen who answered the calls refused to discuss anything over phone. Devraj, a Leuva Patel who now has solid backing of his community , stated in his complaint that he was informed about the death of his son by four policemen who came to meet him at Sarapdad village on January 1.
 
 At the post-mortem room of the Raj kot civil hospital, police remained silent when we asked about the cause of Prakash's death. I saw unusual injury marks which indicated police torture and informed my community members.
 
 Later, I got to know that policemen had illegally detained my son and Shaktisinh from Dhrangadhra and tortured them to death. They fabricated the loot story ,“ Devraj alleged.
 
 Before Devraj, it was Shaktisinh's mother Neetaba who had cried conspiracy, claiming that a day before her son was killed, the Bhaktinagar police had refused to allow her to meet him at the police station. However, policemen somehow convinced her to accept his body . Devraj and SPG members, however, remained unrelenting, which ultimately forced Gehlot to order an impartial probe.
 
 Shaktisinh has several offences registered against him, the most serious being murdering a police constable in March last year, unnatural sex with an inmate at the protection home where he was lodged being a minor and assault on a woman. Prakash was also arrested earlier for bootlegging.
 
