NEW DELHI: Despite Pawan Negi’s all-round show Royal Challengers Bangalore failed to break their losing streak with Mumbai Indians posting a five-wicket victory over them in Match 38 of Indian Premier League season 10 at the Wankhede Stadium, Mumbai on Monday. Skipper Rohit Sharma led the charge for the hosts with an unbeaten 56 as MI chased down a target of 163 with one ball remaining. RCB had posted 162 for eight riding on AB de Villiers 27-ball 43 and Negi’s 23-ball 35. Negi then got RCB back in the game for a brief while bowling a tidy spell of 4-0-17-2. With this win MI climbed to the top of the table with 16 points while RCB remained on seventh with five points 

 We break down the match in five: 
 
 
 
 
 Mandeep Singh showed positive intent in a bid to give Royal Challengers Bangalore a good start and he got two boundaries in the first over itself bowled by Mitchell McClenaghan. A third four in the next over by Lasith Malinga helped RCB to 16 for no loss in 2 overs. Hardik Pandya bowled a tidy over next up before Virat Kohli earned himself a six over long-on with a lofted drive off Karn Sharma, who was playing in place of Harbhajan Singh. But in the same over, Mandeep lost his wicket to a tossed up delivery trying for a slog only to find Hardik at deep midwicket. Kohli though looked in good touch when he whipped a slower one for six over long-on, but he perished to a nothing delivery from McClenaghan. Kohli went after a legside delivery and managed a chip straight to square leg. Kohli himself looked embarrassed with the shot and departed for 20 off 14 deliveries. 
 
 
 
 AB de Villiers started off with a six and a four off McClenaghan. Another four a six followed in Krunal Pandya’s second over, but the senior Pandya struck in his third removing Travis Head for 12 , caught at deep midwicket by brother Hardik. An over later, Krunal was handed the wicket of de Villiers when the South African went for a slog sweep that had earned him a six in the previous delivery, but this time he top edged one and Jasprit Bumrah did the rest at short fine. Shane Watson was cleaned up by Bumrah for 3 as RCB found themselves in trouble at 109/5 in 13.4 overs. The onus was on Negi and Kedar Jadhav to add quick runs for RCB and Negi went after Malinga taking the Sri Lankan for two sixes in the one over. Negi got a six off Bumrah and then hit a four off McClenaghan to push RCB’s score to 162/8. Negi made 35 off 23 deliveries. 
 
 
 
 
 In chase of 163, Mumbai Indians lost Parthiv Patel to a golden duck. Aniket Choudhary’s back of the length delivery climbed on Parthiv too much and he mistimed a pull that was caught at short midwicket by Yuzvendra Chahal. Nitish Rana and Jos Buttler then got MI back on track adding 61 runs for the second wicket. Rana got things moving for MI after Parthiv’s dismissal taking boundary off Choudhary and then hit Chahal for two boundaries in one over. Buttler got in to the act with three fours off one Adam Milne over. By the end of powerplay overs, MI had reached 55 for 1. 
 
 
 After starring with the bat, Negi turned things around for RCB with the ball. He first got the wicket of Buttler (33) when the England batsman chipped one to extra cover fielder Head. In his next over, Negi scalped Rana for 27. Rana connected with a slog sweep but Head at deep midwicket took a fantastic catch. Kieron Pollard then eased the tension with two fours but an injury and subsequent unavailability of Krunal Pandya dented MI. Krunal had been their best finisher this season and the wicket of Pollard taken by Chahal put the pressure back on MI.
 
 
 
 
 Despite the wickets falling at the other end, Rohit Sharma calmly accumulated runs and set himself for a big push. He got two back-to-back boundaries of Choudhary and then tonked Sreenath Arvind for a six to bring down the equation to 7 off from the last over. He brought up his fifty off 34 deliveries. Rohit then finished off the match with a four off the penultimate delivery of the match. 
 
 
