THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In every small group of men who huddled around with a game of cards on the beachside on Monday, there was a momentary pause. Someone would break the silence with an angry outburst, fiery words were flung at each other. Old faces with scraggly beard helplessly watched their younger ones fight with words and eventually settle into their games. None of them could just get on with the game. 

 ''We have lost one of our brothers, who should have been sitting here with us playing cards, waiting for work hours. We know that could happen to anyone of us tomorrow,'' Devasya, a man in his late 70s did not try to conceal his fear. The habits and circumstances they have lived with for years are making them vulnerable more than ever before. 
 
 It's a village where the feted ODF campaign becomes a farce. Waste management is still an alien term and the panchayat authorities have never bothered to alter it. Dogs always feed on fish waste and meat waste in abundance. When power fails in their houses and heat soars, the villagers step out and sleep on the beach just like   did. `` It has been our habit for years during every summer. All these years we never had to be scared of dogs and we slept peacefully on the beach,'' says Vincent, a local resident.
 
 Spending nights on the beach are no longer safe for the villagers. Dogs gather around the beach by evening and lurk in packs close to the slope that leads to the beach. `` We know that what lies at that slope, but we live by fishing and we have to go early in the morning to earn our bread,'' says   who was one among the fishermen who had taken Josklin to hospital on Sunday. All the fishing boats on the shore feature a long stick, the sole defence of fishermen against the dogs at night. They make sure they always go in groups, a fatal mistake Josklin committed which proved dearly for him. `` They have never attacked us when we are together. The moment we are alone, they chase us and the only option is to jump to the sea and wait for other people to arrive so The older, weaker ones may not be lucky to make it to the sea,'' Silva adds. 
 
 The villagers have even got into tiffs with anonymous trucks from Tamilnadu which reportedly unload dogs in their area. ``There was one instance when we waited for an entire night and had to send them back. The authorities have been informed about this practice so many times,” says Francis. 
 
