KOLKATA: The first two ODIs between India and England turned out to be absolute run feasts with over 700 runs being scored in each game. However, the last ODI between the two teams at the   here on Sunday is unlikely to be high-scoring one.

 The two teams are likely to encounter a different pitch at the Eden Gardens which underwent massive renovation work between November 2015 and February 2016. According to local ground staff it will no longer be the age-old slow surface with the ball keeping low. The re-laid soil base and the newly-grown Bermuda grass have settled down nicely. This in itself is likely to alter the basic character of the pitch. 
 
 “It will be hard and generate good bounce,” a member of the ground staff said. However, there is a fair amount of live grass on the track which is expected to help the seamers. The track selected for Sunday's tie had hosted the Delhi v Karnataka Ranji Trophy match earlier this season. Delhi were bowled out for 90 and 164 in their two innings. But Karnataka made a handsome 414 runs on the same track. “There will be something for both, batsmen as well as bowlers,” the groundsman said.
 
 Although last week's chill is missing and the day temperature has risen substantially over the last few days in the eastern part of the country, dew is still expected to have a significant impact in the second innings.
 
 
 
 
 There was bad news for England as opener   was ruled out of the remainder of the India tour with an injured hand. The opener injured his hand while trying to hold a catch offered by MS Dhoni on the deep mid-wicket fence during the second ODI in Cuttack on Thursday. Although Hales came out to bat, he was clearly uncomfortable during his brief stay in the middle.
 
 
 
 
 Team India opener   drove straight to a private hospital from the airport for a precautionary check-up. Dhawan apparently felt some pain in his left thumb which he had injured while batting against New Zealand at the Eden Gardens here last October.
 
