PATNA: The Patna bench of central administrative   (CAT) has quashed the charges and departmental proceedings against retired IPS officer Mansoor Ahmad. 

 The judgement was delivered by the bench of S K Pattnaik and A K Upadhyay on Thursday after the home department pleaded before the tribunal for the third consecutive time for three more months to finalize the proceedings against Ahmad.
 
 The matter was pending despite the fact that charges against him were not found true in the inquiry report submitted to the state government on August 18, 2015. He was also served a show-cause notice after almost seven months which must have been done within a fortnight, according to the rules.
 
 The state government had twice sent the proposal to Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for deciding action against Ahmad. The UPSC returned it due to several lacunas. The tribunal, while quashing the proceedings, said Ahmad’s matter was being tossed between the state and the UPSC, endlessly.
 
 According to the tribunal’s order, two miscellaneous applications were filed on different occasions earlier, in which the home department had pleaded for three months’ time to wrap up the proceedings.
 
 The tribunal, on the first application, granted three months’ time while the second time it expressed displeasure over the way the matter was being handled, but granted only two months’ time with the condition that if not completed, the entire proceeding against Ahmad would stand quashed.
 
 Ahmad, originally a Bihar Police Service officer, was promoted to the rank of an IPS officer in 2001 and departmental proceedings had been going on against him since 2014 after a complaint was sent to the department that he had encroached some parts of road at Sangam Vihar in Digha area.
 
 He was later suspended on April 21, 2016, after he sought permission for holding a press conference against alleged misconduct of the chief secretary and principal secretary of home department on January 29. His was denied permission
 
 Charges levelled against him were of indiscipline, insubordination and conduct unbecoming of an officer. Looking at the nature of charges, the tribunal had also rapped the authorities saying they had failed to apply their mind in the matter of Ahmad’s continuous suspension and if his continued suspension was required or not. The officer retired on November 30 last year with the proceedings pending against him. The tribunal quashed his suspension in November 2016. 
 
 The state government challenged the CAT order in the Patna high court, which dismissed the writ petition on May 4 this year.
 
 Mansoor said he would now submit a petition to the government to grant him the benefits as he was not promoted to DIG rank due to the proceedings against him. “My gratuity of Rs20 lakh was yet to be released and my pension is released after 10% deduction due to the proceedings,” he said.
 
 
