HUBBALLI: Students, who are preparing for SSLC,   need not worry about lack of   to reach the examination centre as the NWKRTC has taken steps for their benefit. 

 To tackle transportation problems during examination time from March to June, the NWKRTC, which covers six districts and eight divisions in North Karnataka, has strictly instructed its drivers and conductors to be sensitive towards the problems faced by students in reaching their examination centers due to inadequate bus facilities. They have been asked to stop the bus wherever students in uniforms seek help and avoid any delay in maintaining their daily schedules.
 
 The NWKRTC has also launched a WhatsApp group through which students can share their grievances. This group is managed by NWKRTC chairman and other divisional officers. Sadanand Danganavar, chairman, NWKRTC, Hubbali, said, "After taking charge as the chairman, I have been travelling in buses to gather first-hand information on the problems faced by commuters in villages and towns. I have come across many issues, mainly involving students. In many villages, students complained that they don't have adequate bus facilities and buses come to particular stops very late or, sometimes, don't come. Students in Gudenkatti, Mattikatti, Alagawadi of Dharwad district also complained of lack of proper bus facilities and mismanagement of timing by drivers which has forced many to stay away from school and college."
 
 Danganavar has instructed all divisional officers to provide better bus facilities to villages and towns to help students appear for examinations without any worry. "They should maintain punctuality in timings to avoid any delay in reaching examination centre particularly for students in villages and remote places. If ther e is delay in bus service or any driver does not pay heed to their request to stop buses, students can directly post their grievance in our WhatsApp group with bus number and other details. We will immediately take action against such errant drivers and also make arrangements to provide bus facilities to required area," he added. 
 
 Vivekanand Vishvajna, divisional controller, NWKRTC, Hubballi division, said, "We have already given standing instruction to all staff to take care of students in the region by providing timely service. We usually cancel low revenue trips, but this time we are not cancelling any trip even if it is under loss for the sake of students. There will be no curtailing of trip or schedule. Extra care will be taken to ensure students write their examination without bothering about transport facility."
 
