LUDHIANA: More than 100 village residents, mostly youths from   of Samrala have waged a war against   After years of sustained drug abuse in the village, the group has started a campaign, “Drug free Otalan”. They motivate families of drug addicts to get them treated and guard the village from   

 “Rampant drug abuse in my village saddened me. My cousin’s drug addiction claimed my uncle’s life. He has now stopped taking drugs. Even though I was a panchayat member, I felt helpless as the panchayat didn’t take action against the drug menace. Therefore, I decided to mobilize youngsters and other residents to form this organization, ‘Anti Drugs Committee’ comprising of 110 members. We made a list of 60 drug addicts in the village who are hooked to medical drugs, psychotropic powder (chitta), opium and smack and started persuading their family members to get them deaddicted”, said Indresh Jaidka, founder of the committee. 
 
 According to him, they have managed to get five addicts treatment for de-addiction and are getting good response from villagers. “We also made teams to keep a watch at entrances of the village so that no drug peddler enters. They normally conduct patrolling till around 11pm”.
 
 Team members are happy to be associated with the cause. “After my best friend started taking chitta, I was depressed and wanted to do something to get him de-addicted and save villagers from the poison of drugs. So I joined the committee to fight against the problem, which has given a bad name to our village and Punjab. I know the path ahead is rocky but we will fight the problem and save lives”, said Harpreet Singh, a 30-year-old member of the committee.
 
 Meanwhile, police appreciated the villagers’ initiative. 
 
 “People coming forward against drug abuse is a welcome step. The drug problem in Otalan was increasing but with this initiative from villagers supported by the police, we have been able to check the spread of drugs”, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Samrala G P Singh.
 
 Box: Setting an example
 
 On February 15, a group of villagers from Kamalpura area of Jagraon made a   of addicts in the village, uploaded it on YouTube and requested their parents to get them deaddicted or face police action and social boycott. Otalan village has a population of around 8,000. The committee mostly comprises members who have directly or indirectly suffered because of drug abuse.
 
 
