KOLKATA: The ruling Trinamool Congress on Wednesday further consolidated its position state-wide with early results indicating its hold over four municipalities among the seven which went to the polls on May 14.

 The party took unassailable leads in   in South 24 Pargans, Domkal in Murshidabad and Raigunj in North Dinajpur. However, celebrations are rather muted with Calcutta high court set to hear a petition moved by the Congress to cancel the polling in these three municipalities in the plains alleging widespread electoral malpractices. 
 
  
  
 Congress has also alleged that the SEC has also played a partisan role on May 14 turning its persistent demands for central forces and observers. All opposition political parties - Left Front, Congress and BJP - had withdrawn their candidates from the poll fray in these three municipalities on May 14. 
 
 Even today several opposition candidates and their agents chose to stay away from the counting booths. Given the backdrop, the BJP and Congress struck the only discordant note in Trinamool's winning script by snatching facile wins in some wards in Pujali, Raigunj and Domkal.
 
  
  
 In the hills, Trinamool finally appears to have broken a four-decade old status quo by winning the Mirik municipality. The 6-3 poll result in its favour marks the first concrete inroads by a party from the plains wresting decisive control over a hill civic body on its own. As expected the   appears to retain its hold over Darjeeling and Kurseong while Kalimpomg appears to be inching towards a hung verdict. The Mirik victory and Trinamool's gains in Kalimpong appears to vindicate chief minister Mamata Banerjee's decision to declare Kalimpomg a district and Mirik a sub-division for better administrative delivery and also promising to be resolve the vexed land rights issue in the hills.
 
 Experts also chose to interpret the results as a growing vindication of BJP emerging from the shadows of Left and Congress to lay claim over the primary opposition space in Bengal.
 
