ALDONA: Unlike in 2012, when an anti-Congress wave was sweeping across the state, the 2017 assembly election sees no such fervour in the air. And, in the constituency of Aldona, every second person will give you a different opinion about who is the favourite to win the assembly polls this year.

 This time around, it’s the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) turn to fear the anti-incumbency factor, and only a big split in anti-BJP votes is likely to put Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo in a comfortable position for a second term in the constituency.
 
 Aldona constituency comprises the villages of Aldona, Nachinola, Moira, Bastora, Ucassaim, Pomburpa, Ecoxim, the islands of Corjuem and Calvim, and the wards of Mapusa town—Duler, Peddem, Camarcazana and Acoi.
 
 After the delimitation exercise in 2010, the villages of Socorro, Salvador do Mundo and Penha de Franca were taken out of the constituency to form the new constituency of Porvorim. The village of Bastora, which earlier was a part of the Saligao constituency, was added to the Aldona constituency.
 
 The delimitation move was a political masterstroke for the BJP, as the addition of the wards in Mapusa, which are known to be strongholds of the party, enabled it to win the Aldona constituency for the first time in 2012, something that was seen as unachievable earlier.
 
 Crossing swords in the 2017 election will be sitting MLA Ticlo for the BJP, Congress’ Amarnath Panjikar, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Ursula D’Souza, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) Mahesh Satelkar, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Osbert D’Cunha and independent candidate Anandrao Nagvekar.
 
 The BJP and AAP candidates had a headstart before the rest of the competition with AAP gaining significant ground in Aldona village from where its candidate, D’Souza, hails. Many families, who had voted for the BJP in the last election, seem to be inclined towards AAP this time.
 
 “In the last election, there was an anti-Congress wave. Most of the people also didn’t want the Congress MLA getting another term in Aldona and wanted a change. The Calvim tragedy in which six people lost their lives also turned the election in BJP’s favour, as people were just yearning for change,” said a villager, requesting anonymity.
 
 “This time it is not so. People have seen what the BJP is capable of doing, and we don’t want to give them another chance. We have also seen BJP doing U-turns on the special status and removal of casinos issues. Hence, we’re turning towards AAP,” he added.
 
 While support for AAP is centred mainly in Aldona village, the party can expect to see pockets of support in other areas in the constituency as well.
 
 While the BJP’s support base in Aldona village has dwindled, it will find support in other areas of the constituency like Nachinola, Bastora and Mapusa. Another factor it will have to combat this time, is the MGP fielding its own candidate.
 
 MGP candidate Satelkar had fancied his chances of getting the Congress ticket and had even begun campaigning under the party’s banner. “Satelkar even came to our house as a Congress candidate. He also put up banners wishing people during Christmas and New Year,” said a resident.
 
 But, Satelkar did not get the Congress ticket, which went to Panjikar, and he decided to contest on the Lion symbol instead.
 
 While Ticlo gained a significant number of votes due to the BJP-MGP tie-up in 2012, he does not enjoy the advantage this time.
 
 Political analysts say Satelkar will poll votes in his home village of Moira, besides getting some votes in Pomburpa, Ecoxim and even Mapusa. “This will give the BJP a setback. It remains to be seen how much damage the MGP candidate will cause the BJP,” said a political analyst.
 
 Observers say that Congress candidate Panjikar, a higher secondary school teacher in Aldona, has got the backing of former Congress MLA Dayanand Narvekar, who still retains some loyal supporters in the constituency.
 
 Panjikar is expected to poll Congress votes across the constituency, plus votes from some of his students, who are now of voting age. Panjikar hails from the Corjuem island, and the islanders now seem to be divided in their support between the Congress and BJP.
 
 The Calvim tragedy in February 2012 saw a bus plunge into the river, killing six people, including four children. The incident went against Narvekar in the rest of the Aldona constituency, but the Calvim island itself went against this trend and voted for the Congress candidate in 2012. This year, the voting pattern may see a change with AAP making some inroads into this Congress stronghold.
 
 Political observers say that independent candidate Nagvekar has gained the support of former zilla panchayat member  , and it will be interesting to see how his candidature will make a dent in the vote share of other parties. NCP’s D’Cunha is an unknown factor this election.
 
 While the Mapusa wards of Duler, Peddem, Camarcazana and Acoi could give the BJP and Ticlo a significant lead over other parties, the silent voter in these wards could look the other way.
 
 “There are a lot of silent voters in the Aldona constituency. Ticlo may bank on the split in anti-BJP votes to see him through, but it is the silent voters who could spring the biggest surprise,” said a political observer.
 
 In the case of Aldona constituency, its wait and watch.
 
 
