BENGALURU: A wild tusker suspected to have strayed out of Bannerghatta forest trampled to death two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel at a training camp in Taralu village, near Kaggalipura, south of Bengaluru, on Sunday morning.

 The dead men are assistant sub-inspector H Dakshina  , 55, and constable Puttappa Lamani, 35. They were part of a CRPF platoon undergoing training at the facility that also houses a dog squad training centre.
 
 Murthy and Lamani were on sentry duty when the incident took place. Murthy went to answer nature's call around 6.30am, when the elephant trampled him.
 
 A source said the elephant had fallen into a trench and injured himself before getting out of it.
 
 Enraged by the injury , the tusker trampled Murthy and attacked Lamani, who went to rescue his colleague.Lamani reportedly tried to chase the elephant away with a stick. The sentry post had four personnel on duty , including the deceased.
 
 Murthy was from Vellore in Tamil Nadu and Lamani was from   district in  . Inspector General of Police Seemanth Kumar Singh, who visited the spot, said the bodies were sent to their native towns after postmortem. We inspected the spot and asked the district administration to take precautionary measures. Trenches have to be dug and fences erected to prevent wild elephants from entering the training camp,“ Singh said.
 
 Dipika Bajpai, deputy conservator of forests (Bengaluru Urban), described the incident as quite unfortunate. “My prayers are with the bereaved family. The chief wildlife warden will soon announce compensation to the families.“
 
 According to Dipika, the CRPF camp is located is right next to the Kaggalipura range of  , and the green cover there is quite dense.This could be another reason why the jawans may not have realized the presence of the elephant.
 
 “We got to know that a tusker was coming back to Bannerghatta National Park from   in Magadi, which is the usual corridor elephants in the region use.Two days ago, we had found dung remains of a tusker near BM Kaval and Tataguni areas, which could be of the same tusker,“ she said.
 
 Forest officials claiming ignorance of the wild elephant's movement in the area notwithstanding, CRPF personnel blamed foresters and said they had failed to provide an alert about the movement of a lone tusker. Forest officials formed three special teams which are involved in a combing operation, even as CRPF men vowed to find the animal themselves. By Sunday evening, a source said that the elephant had been safely guided to Bannerghatta National Park.
 
