The Thakshak snakes come back and tell   that they couldn’t get rocky. They tell her that   was taken away by another snake.   and Guruji are worried about Rocky's well being.
 
  
 
  
  Shivangi is not going to abandon rocky and Guruji asks her to help rocky as it’s his forst skin removing process today. Guruji tells her to bring the skin to him so that he can remove the effect of the dagger that was stabbed into him by Yamini.
  
  Yamini visits a Tantrik lady who gives her a ring that has a Magical bird in it. The lady tells her to make Rocky wear it so that his truth is exposed. Meanwhile at home, Rocky behaves very weird and gets angry at even the smallest things.
  
  Aliya tells Rocky that Madhav (Arjun Kapoor) and Rhea (Shraddha Kapoor) are her friends and that she has challenged them to a basketball match. After a lot of convincing, Rocjy decided to go and meet them.
  
  The whole family cheers for Rocky during the game. During the game Rocky starts losing his temper and Shivangi gets worried about him shedding his skin. Madhav notices that Shivangi is tensed and offers to help her. Shivangi tells him that she is a   and Rocky is a Nag. Madhav tells her that he will ask his friends to keep Yamini busy. Madhav takes Rocky inside and he starts shouting and transforms into a huge snake.
  
  Rocky sheds his skin and Shivagi gives it to Madhav to keep for a while. She also kills the bird in his ring.
  
  Even Shivangi sheds her skin and puts it in a nearby locker. Madhav hands over the skin to her and she wishem all the best. Rhea finds rocky in pain in the locker room. She calls an ambulance for him and while handing him over, she finds the female doctor a little fishy.
  
  The doctor kills the ambulance driver and transforms into a snake. She kills everyone and kidnaps Rocky. Shivangi takes the skin to Guruji who destroys the dagger's effect.
  
  Guruji tells Shivangi that Rocky has been taken to Thakshak world. At first we acnt see the snake's face but later it is revealed that it was Shesha. Shivangi vovs to save Rocky from the Thakshak world.
