CHENNAI: N Uthaman, son of a dailywage labourer, is in his final year of engineering and funding his studies hasn't been easy. But the 24-year-old, like a few others in the city, have made the most of their passion for cricket to ensure that they can complete their education. 

 Uthaman is part of a group of about 350 who do umpiring in various corporate, district and private cricket tournaments (excluding   league matches) across the city to support themselves financially.
 
 Most of them are not qualified  . A weekend could well see these amateur   earn 1,500 to 2,000. During the dog days of April and May, the income could go up. Additionally, the umpires are provided with food and soft drinks. 
 
 "I had represented Thiruvallur District Cricket Association (TDCA) at the U22 category and I represent my college. AV Loganathan (TNCA umpire and the chairman of TDCA umpires sub-committee) asked me if I was interested in umpiring. I agreed. Now I'm able to pay my college fees easily as I earn about 5,000 per month by umpiring," said Uthaman, who lost his farmer father when he was 17. For the first year of college, he was dependent on his mother, Rani, a daily-wage labourer in Dindivanam, and his brother in Chennai, to fund his education. "But it's no longer the same now. I have also planned to appear for the TNCA umpiring exam this year. What began as a parttime job has now opened up a career option for me," Uthaman added. 
 
 Loganathan, who has been a TNCA umpire for 14 years, said most tournament organisers spot cricketers who are keen on umpiring rather than those who do just for money. "As there are a lot of tournaments happening, there isn't adequate number of qualified umpires. Most of these non-qualified umpires are cricketers. I have spotted about 40 people and they attend umpires' seminars every year. The financial factor is there, but it's their passion for the game that makes them do the job," said Loganathan. 
 
 R Kaviarasu, who is part of the Kancheepuram U23 district team, has to pay about 80,000 per year for his engineering studies at St Joseph's Engineering College in Sriperumbudur. Son of a carpenter, Kaviarasu said: "I play during the week and do umpiring during weekends. I give whatever I earn to my father. I have a younger sister as well. Thus I'm able to contribute for her studies too." 
 
