AJMER: Soon, facilities at   in Pushkar will get better. The managing committee of the temple is planning to include online booking for pooja. Besides, it will install an elevator for the aged devotees coming to worship here. The committee is also planning to improve the surrounding area of the temple by planting more trees. It is the first time in the history of this temple that the state government appointed a managing committee for maintenance of the temple after the death of last mahant (priest) Sompuri on 12 January.

 The committee headed by the district collector   is looking for every aspect to improve facilities to Brahma Temple and studying the management at Vaishno Devi in Jammu and Akshar Dam of Gujarat, “The problem is that there is about eleven hector of land for the main temple but most of the surrounding is encroached and developed for commercial purpose“ said source.
 
 The committee first of all identified the encroached land to make it vacate, “We have planned beautification of the temple with facilities“ said official. The main strategy of the committee is to start online services to devotees who wanted to come to Pushkar but fear of standing in long queue, “The committee will provide online date for worship to any devotee as well as time and appoint the priest to these devotees before they reached Pushkar“ said official source.
 
 The committee is also planning for VIP and   darshan for devotees who do not wanted to wait for their number and will enter from the backside gate as like of many major temples in the country, “The money which will be charged from devotees for VIP and VVIP darshan will use to uplift the services and facilities to all devotees“ said source.
 
 Interestingly, the committee found that no better services were provided to devotees before by the previous temple trust even there is huge offerings coming to the temple. The actual condition of offerings coming to the temple revealed these days as the offering boxes of the temple filled with currency just in fifteen days where they were shown half empty even after a month“ further added source.The search made by the committee at the resident of last  , situated inside the temple premises also shows that large number of money coming to temple was dumped by the previous Mahant.
 
 The proposal which this committee is preparing is mostly on the facility and beautification of the temple, “Brahma Temple is the only Temple in Pushkar and there is no other   in the world and therefore it is an important abode,“ said priest of Pushkar.
 
