MUMBAI: Will capping   prices alone make   cheaper? While it is a step in the right direction, industry experts and health activists say this alone would be hoping for an exceedingly easy solution to a complicated problem involving market dynamics. 

 A debate on stent   has been raging across the country since the   ( ) proposed regulating the cost that range from Rs 21,881 to Rs 67,272. 
 
 Currently, hospitals charge anywhere between Rs 50,000 and Rs 2.5 lakh for stents varying in size, quality and type. The cost also differs as per the hospital or the class that a patient opts for.
 
 However, some fear the practice of most hospitals, particularly private ones, to bill patients for a complete   package and not individually for stents, could render the whole exercise ineffective. “Controlling MRP of stents is the right direction but it’s only the first step. Ultimately we need the Clinical Establishment Act or a drug policy not just to regulate costs but also for patient empowerment and awareness,” Dr Mira Shiva of the Delhi-based All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN) that has been at the forefront of the fight for stent-price regulation. She added that stents are just one part of the cardiac procedure that includes many other elements such as hospital cost, doctor and bed charges.
 
 An industry insider told TOI that a handful private hospitals in the city and the   have already started reworking their cardiac packages. “Since the price capping looks inevitable now, many hospitals have started thinking of ways to make up for the lost profits. But, one must understand that not every hospital charges exorbitant mark-up from patients. Some of the profit earned from stents is also diverted towards maintaining the cardiac catheterization lab,” the source said, adding that hospitals that are in the business to make profits will find a way.
 
 Transparency and patient education, according to Dr Arun Gadre of Jan Swasthya Abhyan, is where lies the solution to every clever innovation that a distributor or hospital may try to make money. “The problem of profiteering is not restricted to pricing of stents. A bigger concern is the unindicated use of devices. Price regulation is undoubtedly a good move but what we need is regulation and medical audits,” he said. Dr Shiva added that patients also need to question their doctors and demand choices. 
 
 Dr Tarang Gianchandani, CEO of  , said the medical sector needs to evolve from being purely doctor-driven. 
 
 Cardiologist Dr Brian Pinto also echoed the same but said the regulation should happen in such a way that it does not kill innovation and the advent of future technologies. 
 
 “If we club all generations of drug eluting stent under one price umbrella, it may be unfair. We must have a stringent and transparent way of determining MRPs,” he said.
 
 
