VISAKHAPATNAM: By collecting old story books, text books and educational magazines over the last few years, a couple of city-based NGOs are setting up a   room for students of a government ZP High School.

 The NGO Trendsetters Charitable Trust (TCT) had been collecting old books, clothes, toys and so on by putting up monthly collection points in various parts of the city. In the process, they have collected around 500 academic books, educational magazines, novels, children’s story books, text books of different classes, art and craft books.
 
 “Since the last three years, we have been collecting old books, clothes and toys under our Wealth out of Waste (WOW) programme. We gave away the books, which are in Telugu and English language to a social welfare organisation Srujanavani, which have been organising various educative activities for children of rural schools on the outskirts of Vizag,” said Vivek Rathod, president of TCT.
 
 There are some computer and law books, which are more suitable for college students who are taking up these courses. Accordingly, such books will be distributed to the needy rural students, said Rathod.
 
 Srujanavani members are now making the library room ready at   in Gopalapatnam. The students have no library in their school and neither have access to good text books or general knowledge books.
 
 Maruthi Prasad, organising secretary of Srujanavani, said, “We are in the process of setting up the library and segregating the books subject-wise, which would be ready in a week in the Science Activity Centre of the school. The students can also take some books home and return these after reading. There would also be books on personality development and on technical subjects, which would cater to the diploma and intermediate students. Earlier, we had set up the Science Activity Centre to enable the government school students conduct scientific experiments on par with their corporate school counterparts. Now, the library would help inculcate reading habit in them.”
 
 
