CHENNAI: The chaos inside the   — Asia’s largest wholesale market — may be limited to haggling and hollering, but the mayhem outside is turning life-threatening. On the   omni-buses, inter-state buses, mini-trucks and private vehicles create a a bedlam that is growing daily. In the midst is the man on the road often caught trying to dodge vehicles while trying to cross the road.

 In the absence of a   and commuters find it difficult to get on the other side of the road. “It is a nightmare to cross the road with continuous traffic plying on both sides of the Jawaharlal Nehru Road. Sometimes when the signal is not working and there is no traffic policemen it is impossible to cross the road,” said S Sundaresan a resident of Koyambedu. 
 
 Though foot over-bridges are not very popular among pedestrians, but the incessant flow of traffic in the area leaves people with no other option. Several pedestrians felt a foot over-bridge could help save time and avoid unnecessary risks while crossing the aroad, especially during peak hours. The nearest foot over-bridge is more than 500m away and connects the Koyambedu metro station to the other side of the road. Taking into account the number of people frequenting the area an over-bridge should have been constructed a long time ago, feel many. 
 
 At present to ease traffic congestion, a flyover is being constructed — from the entrance of   Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT) to the Kaliamman Temple Road Junction. But commuters say a foot over-bridge to connecting the omini bus terminus to the other side of the road close to the flyover has become essential to ensure safety of pedestrians. “There is an urgent need for a foot over-bridge as there is a huge floating population in Koyambedu and sometimes we feel sorry for those who want to cross the road but we cannot stop as the flow of vehicles never ceases. The authorities should come up with a solution,” said  , a driver at the omni-bus stand in Koyambedu. 
 
 But a basic foot over-bridge is not an answer, feels A N Sachithanandan, former president of the Institute of Town Planners India. “The foot over-bridge is only a temporary alternative and people often find it tiresome to climb the stairs. Escalators should be provided on both the sides of the bridge for easy access. Barricades should be constructed on both sides of the road to ensure there are no jaywalkers,” he said, adding that a ramp is a must on such bridges for access to all. 
 
 Recently the minister for housing and urban development,   announced at the state assembly that there were plans to improve the traffic conditions on the roads connecting the Koyambedu fruit, flower and vegetable market complex, mofussil bus terminus and omni-bus terminus but security of pedestrian traffic is another cause of concern.
 
