HYDERABAD: In a crackdown on poor food dished out in long-distance trains, Railway Board has asked senior   (SCR) officials to carry out extensive checks on the quality of food,   

 The move comes after passengers began complaining regularly about deteriorating quality of   on trains. 
 
 While SCR authorities launched a massive drive to check food quality and overpricing recently, the railway board’s strict directive sent on July 26 to all zonal railways to check ‘serious lapses’ is now being viewed seriously, sources said. 
 
 SCR has had a few instances of poor food served on trains, including the most recent one a week ago where a cockroach was found in canteen food. All the railway zones put together receive close to 200 complaints each day on social media alone. 
 
 Given the scenario, general managers have been asked to pay personal attention to the issue, oversee checks and send a report after the ‘rigorous drive’. 
 
 “In view of large-scale lapses reported in hygiene, over charging and   of food, the minister of railways has directed a 3-week joint inspection drive. It requires personal attention of the GM. All base kitchens, Jan Ahars, refreshment rooms on railway premises as well as outside should be inspected by officers of all levels, including chief commercial managers,” read the letter.
 
 While the railway board has advised authorities to dole out strict punishment against unauthorized hawkers and defaulting contractors, insiders believe that the food quality issue is largely due to the privatization of food catering and slack in checks by Indian Railway Catering and   (IRCTC). 
 
 “Almost all stalls at the railway stations, except one or two Jan Ahar stalls, are managed by IRCTC, which is basically outsourced to private caterers. However, there are no checks on food or even water bottles,” said a top source.
 
 The Railway Board has also asked zonal authorities to collect   samples for testing. “The samples must be collected and sent for analysis at officially approved labs. The drive should be taken up with all seriousness so that that there is a visible improvement in the Indian Railways catering and a message goes to all the contractors that any slackness will not be tolerated at any level,” the letter said.
 
