Khushboo Mehta, a working professional, felt out of place on her own city streets “There were only men around. I felt I would be stalked or harassed. Was I right to feel this way?“ questioned Khushboo. But she soon realised how her fears held her back all these years, when she recently rode a bicycle through a dark alley of Deccan, near Z bridge, a part of the challenge given to her by  ?, a group of individuals that aim to help women overcome such fears.

 
 
 Khushboo recalled asking friends not to talk or laugh loudly when she would go out with them during `odd hours'. “I never wanted to attract `the wrong kind of attention'. But I began to wonder why we need to be apologetic for step ping out into public spaces at night,“ she said. She is one of the many women who face such questions, says Foram Mehta, who coorganises Why  ? meetings once a month, at different public spaces, including gardens and streets. “Women are often expected to stay at home and stay safe. In the bargain, they are also denied equal opporunitity (like a night job). Society has become normalised to these notions. Our purpose is to break these constructs and assure women (and men) that these spaces will be safe if we step out more and encourage others to do so,“ says Foram.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Though the initiative is specifically focused on   for women, men are welcome to join the initiative. Arvind Hari, a member of the group, said, “Such issues aren't only faced by women, but men too. At our past meetings, many men have challenged society's strereotypes.“ Meets are held once a month at different public spaces, where recent incidents like those pertaining to women's safety are discussed.“We encourage participants to do something they haven't done before owing to social pressure or restrictions. After one of our meetings, Khushboo rode through a dark alley, Foram danced on the street, and another male participant put on dark red lipstick, wore a earring and walked down JM road,“ said Rucha Satoor, another member of the group. At another meet, people gath ered at Kamla Nehru Park to share poetry on various revoltuions. “The major belief is all people, irrespective of their gender and status in society, have a right to access public spaces. The group's meets have seen people from all walks of life taking part,“ Arvind added.
  
 
 Foram says that the group will soon ask participants to come along with their parents. She added, “Our aim is to share the thought with parents as well. If they understand the message and accept the need for free som, it will be the start of a changing mindset.“
 
 
 
 Taking the initiative ahead, the group is planning to meet and `loiter' at   across the city.“So called unsafe public places will be claimed. It's only when we start that others will also feel encouraged to access and use such places, making them safe in the long run. This will slowly change the general mindset about how we percieve public spaces as safe or not,“ Foram added.
 
 Starting with just three members, the group has grown with every activity and word of mouth publicity. Presently, over 25 women and men are part of it. Rucha Satoor, a co-organiser of the group, mentioned that the group derived its name from that of a book by author Shilpa Phadke after identifying with instances mentioned in the book. It presents a take on women's safety in cities of twenty-first century India.
 
  
  
