New Delhi: The Aditya Birla Group’s theatre initiative,  , has only grown in size and stature since its inception two years ago, winning accolades and audiences along the way. As it opens for the third time, it promises to get bigger and more exciting.

 Aadyam has previously showcased productions dabbling with genres ranging from drama, comedy, parody to thriller, musical, clowning and tiatr, through 10 plays that were staged across two cities. This year, the theatre initiative delves into newer spaces.
 
 “Staging is a part of how theatre becomes theatre. Aadyam was created on the dual mandate of building an audience for theatre, while pushing innovation and quality for its makers to produce performances of scale and substance. In our third year, it seems like a great time for us to facilitate this in a newer direction,” said Aadyam artistic director Divya Bhatia.
 
 This year will see productions Bandish 20–20,000Hz by Purva Naresh (Aarambh, Mumbai), Mother Courage and her Children by Quasar Thakore Padamsee (QTP), Under the Gypsy Moon by Akash Khurana (AK Various), Anand Express by Nadir Khan (Rage Productions), and Three Penny Opera by Imaad Shah (Motley).
 
 Aadyam will also extend a community building programme, Aadyam Spotlight, to engage people in conversation about theatre they’ve watched. This year, Aadyam Spotlight Dine Out will allow all members to download personalised card, giving them access to discounts/curated menus at discounted rates, at affiliated restaurants throughout the year.
 
 “Our goal has been to enhance the theatre ecosystem in India by backing talent that can produce to scale, offering committed theatregoers a wider range of genres and subjects, while taking the experience beyond the   to newer audiences. With Aadyam 2017, we’re looking to grow this community, work with newer genres and production houses while continuing our uncompromising approach to quality, scale and crafting memories,” said Aadyam’s spokesperson Brian Tellis.
 
 Kumar Mangalam Birla, of Aditya Birla Group and Patron of the event, said: “Through Aadyam, we’ve been trying to bring a shift in the way theatre is both produced and consumed in the country. While enhancing production values, we’ve also sought to expand the experience of consuming theatre beyond the defined spaces of a stage. This year too, Aadyam will continue to carry forward this vision while upgrading and updating itself through seven new productions.”
 
 
