NOIDA: The   federation held a meeting with newly elected MLA   on Sunday evening at the federation office in Sector 52 where   (FONRWA) members raised issues such as converting   leasehold properties into freehold, law and order, a dedicated police force for the city, quality drinking water and representation of   in the Noida Authority board and more.

 While Pankaj reiterated on Sunday that the district hospital should be handed over to AIIMS and has spoken to CM Yogi Aditya Nath, FONRWA also urged the MLA to take up the matter of transfer of permanent junior authority staff in order to check rampant corruption. “We want Pankaj Singh to work on junior authority staff transfers as they are the bane of all corruption in Noida Authority,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general of FONRWA.
 
 “We told MLA Singh that our request for the conversion of Noida lease-hold land into freehold has been pending for long, despite our repeated communications and pleas made at several meetings with Authority officials and earlier chief ministers. We have been explaining salient changed facts and circumstances, which fully justify conversion to freehold. Freehold land allotments have already been made for townships in G B Nagar itself, so why is Noida exempted from the said rule?” said N P Singh, president of FONRWA.
 
 RWA federation also raised the issue of federation representation in the Noida Authority board. “All functions relating to provision of civic amenities, development and welfare measures are taken by the Noida board headed by Noida Authority chairman and it has no public representation. As there is no publicly elected representative, the best interests of the citizens of Noida cannot be taken care of. We have been pleading that a local MLA, MP and at least two representatives from our RWA Federation be associated with the Noida board,” N P Singh told the MLA.
 
 FONRWA members also demanded strict compliance to Noida being a ‘no power cut zone’ notification. “Even though Noida has been notified as ‘no power cut zone’ in 1992, we have been experiencing power cuts frequently. We seek your support in ensuring strict compliance of this notification to ensure interrupted power supply to the residents,” said Dhawan.
 
 On the issue of law and order, the RWA body sought a dedicated police force equipped with electronic gadgets to tackle the daunting task. “Crimes in the city are continuously on the rise. Hence, there’s a need to enhance the strength of city police equipped with adequate electronic gadgets as the existing force and measures are extremely meagre for a large population of Noida city. Crimes on women have been quite enormous which require trained women personnel. Also, the district should be upgraded to the commissionerate level,” said Singh.
 
 Pankaj Singh promised action on all the problems after consulting Authority officials.
 
 
