KOCHI: The survey conducted by District Kudumbashree Mission has found that there are 3,539 street vendors in the district. The local bodies would rehabilitate them after identifying vending zones in its respective limits. As per the survey, the Kochi corporation limit has the highest number of street vendors (1,989), followed by Thrikkakara (235) and Tripunithura (230) municipalities.

  The  , which has the presence of highest number of migrant workers, has 174 street vendors in its limit. Most of them run businesses at Sunday market. But   said that the number of vendors would come down after the removal of merchants with more than one shops from the list.In the initial stage, the number of vendors in the corporation limit was 2,122, which came down to 1,989 in the   
 
 Meanwhile, the survey says 413 women are doing business in the district with most of them selling vegetables and fruits on roadsides. Of them, 198 were found running eateries. It has also been noted that 402 of the 3,539 vendors took loan from various banks and societies to do street vending business. Other than Keralites, people from Bengal and Tamil Nadu are also running  
 
  The challenge before the local bodies is to find out vending zones in its limits. “We have called for a meeting of the town vending committee on July 30. We are planning to set up a vending zone near national highway in Vallam. We have written to the state government to provide 75 cents of revenue land in the area to the local body. Large number of plywood companies, where most of the migrant labourers work, operate in Vallam.
 
  We can transform the land as a market by charging a certain amount from vendors,” said Nisha Vinayan, vicechairperson of Perumbavoor municipality. She said main roads in the municipality get crowded every Sundays and make it difficult for people to walk. “When we rehabilitate them, the local body can charge around Rs 500 from them per day. Most of the vendors are selling mobiles and textiles in Perumbavoor,” she said. Meanwhile, union leaders of the street vendors said providing identity cards to them would wipe out unholy affair going on  
 
