Union government data shows an 11% decline in Tamil Nadu’s immunisation coverage in 10 years. But a study by a national institute records a slight rise. 

 However, it isn’t this contrast that bothers public health officials whose monthly report has yet another estimate — an impressive 92% coverage on the immunisation front. What worries them is the change in attitude of doctors and the public towards vaccines. This comes at a time when the Centre is all set to introduce two new vaccines in the state. 
 
 Tamil Nadu, officials say, did see a dramatic drop in 2009 after the government scrapped outreach programmes following the death of four 10-month-olds within minutes of being administered anti-measles vaccine in Tiruvallur district. According to the district-level Household and Facilities-4 survey, the figure dipped from around 82% in 2007-08 to 56.2% within five years. Director of public health K Kolandasamy said that during this period the routine immunisation programme was limited to just primary health centres and government hospitals. "We used to cover close to 40,000 children per month through health camps. The number plummeted to 10,000 once we stopped."
 
 The drive picked up after the government re-launched the outreach programme in late 2011. This was reflected in the recent National Family Health Survey (NHFS) – 4, which pegged the percentage of children fully immunised at close to 70% in 2015-2016. Another study by the National Institute of Epidemiology under the Indian Council of Medical Research estimated the figure to be much higher at around 80%. Public health officials are confident that the state has resumed its position for immunisation in the top slot.
 
 But at a time when the Union government has introduced three new vaccines — pentavalent, injectable polio and measles-rubella — within a span of six years in  , and two more (rotavirus and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines) are in the process of being administered under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP), health officials say the growing mistrust among public and doctors for vaccines may bring back matters to square one. While vaccines production is being perceived as mere business and not an initiative to save lives, officials say their defense is barely audible above the arguments raised by anti-vaccine lobbyists. They say the recent state government drive that introduced the measles-rubella vaccine was also hit by rumours that it could cause death.
 
 Paediatrician Dr Benny Benjamin, who runs a clinic in Alwarpet, vouches for the efficacy of vaccines. But he is among doctors who are questioning the relevance of some vaccines — especially those they come under pressure from the market to prescribe. "There are talks that Hepatitis A vaccine could be introduced in the routine programme. It may be severe in adults, but even that is rare. In children it is mild. But the companies keep pushing it. Pharma representatives frequently approach me with dubious studies published in some unknown journal. They even offer discounts and junkets in return," said Dr Benjamin.
 
 The practitioner says he usually leaves it to the family to choose the vaccine it wants for a child. "Most prefer to go by the UIP schedule, some want an additional dose against a particular infection that is prevalent at that time, and there are others who don’t want their child vaccinated at all. Worryingly, that number is slowly growing," he said. There are at least eight or more vaccines and combinations that are outside the UIP schedule. The cost of many of these range between `500 to `5,500 per dose. 
 
 Dr Anupam Sachdev, president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics which works with UIP for implementation of various programmes, said vaccines are introduced only after a needs-based assessment. "But we need to look at lives saved against number of deaths due to infections that could have been prevented by vaccines," he added.
 
 Pointing to the growing suspicion among doctors on the sudden spurt of vaccines in the market he says, "Of course, it is a business for vaccine manufacturers, but we need to refer to our literature and educate the public accordingly," he said.
 
 Dr Kolandasamy said a lot of newly inducted doctors have also been dismissive about vaccines as the infections they are prescribed for are rare. This scepticism is more in urban areas than in rural areas. "They don’t sense the urgency because they don’t see the occurrence of cases like whooping cough and diphtheria. They don’t realize it’s because of our decades-long immunisation drive," he said.
 
 
