NAGPUR: Behind every successful man, there is a woman. This adage suits perfectly to  , husband of city's ace shuttler Arundhati Pantawane.

 Orange City's star badminton couple Arundhati and Arun played a vital role in   triumph in the   ( ), which concluded at New Delhi on Saturday.
 
 While Arundhati represented the team as a second women's singles player, her husband Arun was the chief coach of the side.
 
 The player-turned-coach of Chennai Smashers, Arun turned his maiden assignment of a coach to a dream result by guiding the southern side to triumph.
 
 In a hard-fought final, Chennai overcame the stiff challenge of   4-3. Although Arundhati did not get a chance to play because of the presence of PV Sindhu in the squad, her vast experience and important tips to her husband proved important in the ultimate analysis.
 
 Arundhati, who married to Arun last January at VCA Jamtha Stadium, shared her memorable experience with the team.
 
 "I am feeling so proud to be part of Chennai Smashers team. It was a great team effort. Sindhu was amazing throughout the league. I am particularly happy for Arun. He has done his job very nicely. This win will definitely help him in future," Arundhati told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Arun was all praise for Sindhu, Thailand's Tanongsak Saensomboonsuk and Adcock couple, who delivered most of the time.
 
 "I am really happy to guide Chennai to title. The journey began from the auction where I got the players I needed. I always believed that we can win the crown with this team. Everyone played well and did their role perfectly. Sindhu was in great form. As a captain she led from the front," said Arun.
 
 Arun thanked   and Chennai Smashers team owner   for giving him opportunity as a coach.
 
 "Tanongsak was not in great form and was struggling with shoulder pain but when the team needed him in the final he delivered for us by beating Ajay Jayaram. Adcock couple is very professional and won important matches for us and performed consistently throughout the tournament," said Arun.
 
