NEW DELHI: The   continued on Thursday, as Haryana didn’t release the promised quantity of water (200 cusecs) on Wednesday. DJB officials say only 125 cusecs was released in the river Yamuna, which has turned dry as their has been no water supply for the past 10 days.

 “We were supposed to get water by Thursday morning. But till 7pm, we didn’t receive it and it seems unlikely that we will get it by tomorrow morning,” said a DJB official.
 
 On Thursday, DJB officials wrote to   in this regard. Sources say 50 more cusecs of water was released on Thursday evening. 
 
 Due to depletion of pond level, pumping of water from Wazirabad to other water treatment plants has been adversely affected. The official said that this has resulted in shortage of water supply in various parts of the city, including VVIP areas. “By Thursday evening, Haryana had released 175 cusecs. But this is not sufficient,” said a senior DJB official. 
 
 Officials say more water is required to ensure that the flow between Haryana and Wazirabad pond is restored. “The canal has turned dry, as there is no supply of water for the past 11 days. Its parched bed has soaked a portion of the released water. As the water pressure is low, the water is yet to reach the city and is at 8km upstream of Wazirabad,” said a DJB official.
 
 Since May 8, there was shortfall of 70-80 MGD due to which production at water treatment plants at Okhla, Wazirabad and Chandrawal was affected. “For the past 10 days, the production of the three plants has dropped by 25%,” said a DJB official. Sources say efforts were being made to rationalise water supply to all the treatment plants so that adequate water is supplied to all parts of the city. “It has been 11 days since the water supply has got affected. The water level in the pond continues to be low, at 670.20 feet,” said a DJB official. 
 
 On Tuesday, deputy CM   directed DJB to file a contempt case against the Haryana government and warned that water supply will be cut for central Delhi areas which are home to VVIPs if water supply was not restored by Haryana.
 
 Several areas like Azadpur, Jahangirpuri, Timarpur, Mukherjee Nagar, Walled City, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh, NDMC areas, Shastri Nagar, Karol Bagh, Okhla etc were badly affected because of this.
 
