Former deputy mayor   received a major jolt in 2012 civic   when he lost to Prashant Dhawad of Congress. He then unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls in 2014 from Nagpur South. While he has got over the defeats, Sawarbandhe has decided not to contest 2017 civic polls but throw his hat into the assembly election ring in 2019. He shared a lot of insight about the journey of an unsuccessful candidate, with TOI. The excerpts...

 After losing the civic election in 2012, you must have done a lot of introspection. What were the reasons for your defeat?
 
 The main reason for my loss was that people do not   for development. I had done a lot of development of my area in last 20 years. I should not have lost under any circumstances if development was the sole criterion. The other reasons were my detractors within the party and the treachery of BJP, with whom my party had an alliance. Another factor was it was a straight fight between Sena and Congress, and Dhawad got all the anti-incumbency votes. Money power also played its role in my defeat.
 
 What is the reason for not contesting civic elections this time?
 
 I have been in Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) politics since last 20 years. In 2012, I had contested the civic polls for the fifth time. I had told voters that this was my last civic election and I will stick to it even though politicians don’t care much about such promises.
 
 Other factors are that every 10 years a new generation of corporators enters the NMC arena. I will have difficulty in being in synch with them. The coordination between ruling party and opposition is gradually disappearing, which is a dangerous trend. I don’t want to be a witness to it.
 
 However, I am desirous of contesting 2019 assembly elections and will do so if my party gives me the ticket.
 
 In addition, I am training the younger lot in my party in civic politics. I was the deputy mayor, leader of opposition, Sena party leader and standing committee member. I am using this experience to help them.
 
 Was there a change in attitude of people after you lost?
 
 No, people still come to me with their problems. I am still available for them for three to four hours every day. I use my good offices in NMC to get their work done. Now they have realized that Dhawad is not taking any interest in their problems. 
 
 
