MEERUT: Nearly a year after TOI first reported about Devika Sirohi, 30, who was the youngest member of a team of seven researchers which, for the first time, determined the structure of Zika virus, has returned to India on a short break. A resident of Meerut, Sirohi had cracked Zika’s structure in 2016, which is now being used to research for effective treatments by scientists. 

 In an exclusive interview with TOI at her residence in Meerut, Sirohi said she continues to work on different aspects of Zika virus and is closely observing the antibodies that are naturally formed in the body and can help cure the disease. Once such antibodies are identified, they can be administered as therapeutic biologics and cure the disease, she said.
 
 Sirohi, who was born and brought up in Meerut, spoke to TOI about the intense work behind the breakthrough. “Right after the discovery of Zika virus structure, scientists in our team at   started working on what regions in the virus are targets for antibodies. In simple words, we are researching on how antibodies – that are naturally formed in the body – can fight the infection and cure the disease,” said Sirohi, who completed her PhD last year and is now a post-doctoral research associate at Purdue University.
 
 She, along with a team of scientists at Purdue University, is working on the biochemical study of Zika virus particles and trying to identify regions on the proteins present on the outer surface of the virus, which are binding sites for antibodies. Antibodies are naturally produced during infection to get rid of the virus from the body but can also be administered as therapeutic biologics.
 
 In April last year, the seven-member team, including Sirohi, postdoctoral research associates Zhenguo Chen, Lei Sun and Thomas Klose; biological sciences professor Michael G Rossmann, Purdue Institute for Inflammation, Immunology and Infectious Diseases director Richard J Kuhn, and Theodore C Pierson, chief of the viral pathogenesis section of the Laboratory of Viral Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, Allergy and Infectious Diseases had cracked Zika virus for the first time.
 
 “I am also working on deciphering the biochemical makeup of the virus, which will help in gaining insights into the virus biology and can be used for quality control of vaccines,” said Devika, who is in India for 12 days. She flew down to deliver a talk at the annual technological and entrepreneurial festival, Techkriti, organized by the students of Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. She is also scheduled to talk at IIT, Roorkee, and at Meerut chapter of the   later in the week.
 
 “It has been a fantastic journey in the field of research but there is so much more I want to work on; I want to make a difference in the world and that is possible only when I am persistent in following what I mean to do. I hope my work will help in mitigating the cause of infectious diseases, that I am very passionate about” said Devika.
 
 She completed her schooling from Meerut-based schools: Class X from Sophia Girls’ School and Class XII from  . She went on to pursue honours in biochemistry from   and MSc in Biology from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. Both her parents, Dr SS Sirohi and Dr Reena Sirohi, are city-based doctors and have been her pillars of strength.
 
 
