GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat Maritime University, one of the biggest projects aimed at providing highly   for India’s  , has finally boarded the reality ship.

 The state assembly on Friday cleared the Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) proposal to establish the university under Gujarat Private Universities Act.
 
 GMB will spend Rs 800 crores in two phases set up the university on 100 acres land in the ‘Knowledge Corridor’ on the Koba-Gandhinagar stretch. Off campus centres are also proposed to be set up in Jamnagar and Bhavnagar on 50 acres each. Sources said that Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) is willing to give 50 acres of its reserved land in this area for the project. The university was conceptualized in 2014 considering that despite Gujarat handling approximately 40% of India’s seaborne trade, there were only three or four maritime education institutes, that too offering just technical courses with an intake of 280 students. 
 
 The main aim behind setting up this university was to meet glaring gap demand-supply gap between technical and commercial jobs in the sector. Chief Secretary and chairman of GMB, JN Singh said the maritime sector is expected to generate 2.5 million additional jobs in India by 2020. As against 40% jobs available on the commercial side, the supply is just 8% where there is an oversupply of technical pass-outs.
 
 “A detailed study undertaken through consultants revealed that the major focus of present universities in India is on technical courses like naval architecture, maritime engineering etc . For e.g. of the total annual intake capacity of 1,300 in all programs offered by Indian Maritime University (IMU), 88% intake (1150 seats) is for courses in technical areas and only 12% (150 seats) is for commercial areas,” said Ajay Bhadoo, chief executive officer, GMB.“By academic year 2017-2018, we will start management development programmes and executive development programmes for working professionals in the first phase,” said a GMB official.
 
 They will be offered courses like MBA in maritime management, shipping trade and finance, logistics, maritime human resource management, maritime and international trade law, marine insurance, chartering, ship-broking and others. In the first phase, the intake would be 1,000 students.
 
 Talking about the location for the varsity, GMB officials said since the major focus would be on   of maritime sector, there was no need to set it up at a coastal location. Also, urban centre would help attract more students and faculty. 
 
 GMB has already signed MoUs with two leading international institutes -   of Korea Maritime & Ocean University, South Korea and Plymouth University, the UK for strategic partnership for the university.
 
 
