The recently-implemented Goods and Services Tax (GST) spells a bad note for the Indian classical music scene in Mumbai. In a city where over 30 concerts are held every month before packed houses, the news that 28 per cent GST will be levied on tickets costing above Rs 250, cannot be music to aficionados’ ears. 
 
 ‘Will this genre of traditional and culturally rich music still manage to rope in as much audience as it used to?’ is one of the lingering questions on the minds of organisers, classical music enthusiasts and artistes alike. 
 
 Khusroo Suntook, Chairman, National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA), says, “The introduction of GST is a huge step in the right direction provided its complex applications and administration are both open to fair improvement and positive evolution. Its intention to simplify our tax regime, and make it easier for citizens to understand and accept it in the medium and long run, is its acid test.” 
 
 He adds, “Prior to this, Indian classical music bore no tax on the sale of tickets save a 15 per cent service tax. But now that it has been brought under the 28 per cent slab, the public will have to pay 13 per cent more to listen to our maestros. Similarly, audiences will have to pay 18 per cent tax on theatre and dance performances, which was not taxed previously.” 
 
 
 
 Under GST, the artiste will have to pay a service tax of 18 per cent, which is borne by the organisers in most cases. “This means that if you are an organiser and wish to feature a senior or eminent performer, you are expected to spend more but earn less,” says  , who heads Indian music at the NCPA. 
 
 Santoor player  , a doyen of Hindustani classical music, feels that GST will only make things more difficult for artistes and organisers. He says, “Instead of facilitating the artistes who perform traditional arts and music, and represent Indian music on global platforms, it’s sad that little thought has been spared on this matter.”
 
 Shashi Vyas, son of late Pandit CR Vyas, doyen of North Indian classical music and head of Pancham Nishad, has been organising classical music events and concerts across Mumbai and other Indian cities. 
 
 He says, “The economics of staging a classical music concert have become challenging. Tickets are more expensive, artistes cannot reduce fees and event sponsors are including taxes, so the organiser is left with nothing.” 
 
 
 
 Suvarnalata answers, “It is unfair to put Indian classical music in the same bracket as film music, which has high stakes. In India, we are already struggling to promote pure art-forms.” 
 
 However, there are some artistes who feel that GST won’t affect the smaller events. Flautist   says, “I think GST won’t affect classical music much because there are not too many big-budget Hindustani classical music concerts in any case. Even then, the government should waive off GST as music is our dharohar (heritage) and they have to protect and conserve it.”
 
 
 
 There is already a niche audience for Indian classical music.  , who heads the NSCI says, “The increase in taxes for ticket prices above Rs 250, which was previously capped at Rs 500, could lead to lesser turnout during shows.”
 
 Adds Suvarnalata, “The new amendment is definitely not going to help us. On the contrary, it will further shrink the audience. In the long run, this will discourage organisers, who are already finding it tough to raise funds for such events. Eventually, classical music will disappear from our culture.”
 
 Niladri Kumar, known for creating the zitar, believes that there is no logic in having different GSTs for different things. He says, “The number of people who are buying tickets for classical concerts is dwindling anyway, and to top that, if the ticket prices increase because of GST, neither the organiser nor the artiste is benefited. It’s possible that this will affect the attendance, with most people preferring to watch a podcast of the concert, instead.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
