GHAZIABAD: A video of a policeman in uniform being chased about and thrashed by a group of kanwar pilgrims on a busy street was shared widely on social media on Wednesday prompting the district administration of   to order an inquiry. The cop has been identified as senior sub-inspector   of  .

 However, the police seemed to downplay the entire incident and no case has been registered in the matter.
 
 The video clip is approximately 20 seconds long and was purportedly shot on Meerut Road in Modinagar between 9.30pm and 10pm on Tuesday.
 
 Police sources said a group of kanwariyas pulled out Singh from his car in front of Modi Steel factory on erstwhile NH-58 when he accidentally brushed against some of them in the crowd. The video shows a white car in the foreground even though Singh said he only owns a red WagonR. Incidentally, all private light and heavy vehicles, including cars, are at present barred from entering Meerut Road till July 21 in order to make way for kanwariyas who walk along the road.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Singh did not deny that it was indeed him in the video clip. “I was on duty on Kasba Road on Tuesday night. It needs to be verified as to how the video was shot at the place. I have only a red car but it’s a white car visible in the video. I was not seriously hurt and will decide in due course of time if at all I need to pursue a criminal case in the matter,” said Singh.
 
 Senior police officers completely denied the incident. “No such incident was reported from Ghaziabad. The place where the video seems to have been recorded is not Modinagar but might be   in Meerut district,” said Modinagar circle officer DSP Rajkumar Singh.
 
  Ghaziabad DM Ministhy S told TOI the incident would be unravelled through an inquiry. “I have ordered an inquiry into the entire incident through the sub-divisional magistrate of Modinagar. Appropriate action will be taken if at all an incident of this nature has taken place and the guilty will be brought to book. At present, our priority is to ensure that the   finishes peacefully without any breakdown in law and order,” she said.
 
 
