PATNA: As the examinations being conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) and the   Certificate Examination (CISCE) are about to be over, students are worried about their results.
 
  The pressure is clearly showing on thousands of students across the city. Students committing suicides are not uncommon. According to psychiatrists, students suffer from traumatic disorders due to the fear of examinations. “In the past 10 years, the pressure on students has increased by 50%,” said Pramod Kumar Singh, head of psychiatry department of   and Hospital.
  
  “Most of the students want to live up to the expectations of their parents and in doing so, they mentally torture themselves to score well in exams. Some even go the extent of committing suicide. Parents should not exert pressure on children to perform well. Examinations are not the end of the world. There are chances of weak students excelling in other fields,” said Singh.
  
  Another city-based psychiatrist Santosh Kumar, a member of Indian Psychiatrist Society, Patna, said he handles 3-4 such cases every day. “Students who attempt suicide later regret their step. During exam time, children may develop conversion disorder. It is a common yet seldom diagnosed disorder in children. Counselling can help students overcome this,” he said. “Between January and May, kids as well as their parents are vulnerable to nervous breakdown due to pre and post-exam pressure,” Kumar added.
  
  Binod Singh, a resident of Ashiana Colony, whose son appeared for the Class XII board exam, said he told him to take it easy. “He is good in physics and chemistry, but finds difficulties in mathematics. I suggested him not to worry and even consulted a psychiatrist. With each session, he is doing well,” Singh said.
  
  The stress is taking its toll on parents too. Another concerned parent,  , said, “I never compared my son’s marks with any of his classmates or relatives. It is the first time he is giving a board exam. I think counselling will be helpful for him and for me too. I keep reminding myself not to panic as it might affect my son.”
