COIMBATORE:   continues to spread across the district, despite mercury levels touching 35 deg C. This has sparked fears of virus strains mutating to survive the summer. However, doctors said   alone won’t kill the virus as there were many infected patients, who will continue to spread it by contact or touch. 

 At least four persons had died of H1N1 in the past two days in the   and Hospital (CMCH). All of them were first treated in private hospitals, but transferred to CMCH after their health condition deteriorated. They died of breathlessness hardly 12 hours after being admitted to CMCH.
 
 While more than 39 patients are undergoing treatment for H1N1 at CMCH, seven patients were tested positive for the virus at the PSG Hospitals on Wednesday.   and Hospital has also at least 10 patients with H1N1.
 
 A week ago, the director of public health, Dr  , had said the H1N1 virus was slowly fading away. “The virus, which began infecting people in December, has already started withdrawing. It seems to be infecting less people since February 1,” he had said.
 
 However, private hospital doctors said there were fresh H1N1 cases every day. “The virus is definitely mutating and is able to survive the onset of summer,” said consultant (internal medicine) at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital, Dr S V Irania. “Around seven years ago, the virus it was believed to survive only during winter,” he said, adding “The virus is likely to come down in virulence in a week.”
 
 Some doctors were of the opinion that high temperatures alone won’t kill the virus as it primarily spread by contact or touch. “Though mercury levels are on the rise, the maximum temperature is not lasting long enough. Mornings are still foggy,” said pulmonologist at PSG Hospitals, Dr R M P L Ramanathan.
 
 “80% of the patients get infected by contact or touch, rather than droplet transmission. So, in public places like cinema theatres, buses and bus stands etc., an infected person can touch a seat, railing, door or a pillar. The chances of another human touching the same in a few minutes are high. So, the virus is not exposed for long enough for the heat to kill it,” he said. “This happens when there are a lot of infected patients in crowded areas,” he said.
 
 Hand washing by people and infected patients, doctors said, was critical to stop the spread of the virus. “The best way to stop spread of the virus is to wash hands regularly immediately after visiting a public place. Also, people should abstain from touching their faces when in public places,” said Dr Ramanathan. “Infected people should do the same so that they don’t place mucous or droplets in public places. If the virus stops getting transmitted, it will get killed or neutralized by March-mid or end,” he added.
 
