BHUBANESWAR:   and   completed their bachelor degrees in the same subject, pursued their doctorate degrees in the same subject and have now cracked the   with enviable ranks. In addition to their vast and almost similar academic achievements, Swain and Baral have one more thing in common - a home that they share together. 

 The married couple of Lalasahi in the Jagatsinghpur district had dedicated their lives to the study and practice of the veterinary sciences, until now when in one of the most challenging examinations in the state, Pallavi has topped among women candidates (with an overall rank of 3) and her husband has secured the 16th position among 670 candidates.
 
 The son of a retired banker, 33-year-old Shibashish has been a reseacher of veterinary science at the   in Haryana since 2013. The daughter of a social activist, 28-year-old Pallavi works as a veterniary assistant surgeon at Junagarh in the Kalahandi district. This was her very first attempt at the   Commission-conducted exam.
 
 This was Shibashish's second attempt at the examinations. "I had cracked the examination last year and got the revenue service cadre. But I didn't join in the service. I aimed for a good rank in the examination," he said.
 
 The couple had married in January, 2015. After the wedding, both Pallavi and Shibashish began higher studies at the Haryana National Dairy Research Institute. Pallavi was recently appointed as a veterinary assistant surgeon at Junagarh. 
 
 "During our stay at NDRI, we were busy preparing for the examinations. My husband's experience helped me to focus on specific subjects. He was a mentor and guide during our preparation days," said Pallavi. 
 
 The couple did not attend any coaching classes to prepare for the exam. " We even spent our leisure discussing possible questions!" Shibashish said. 
 
  The couple had chosen forestry as one of their their common optional papers in order study together for it. "I was very nervous the whole time and never imagined that I'd come third!" says Pallavi.
 
 Now raring to join the  , they advise more couples to prepare for the same examination. "They will have a common goal to achieve, which will make it easier for them," said an elated Shibashish.
 
