THANE: An armed gang which broke into State Bank of India’s branch in  , along the  , sometime between Saturday and Sunday, were forced to return empty-handed as the steel vault proved impenetrable to their gas cutters and other equipment.

 The well-panned heist turned into a futile exercise for the bank robbers who made their way inside the branch after breaking its wooden door and opening the iron grill on its rear side.
 
 Police said the entire operation was executed with precision as the robbers opened the lock of the grill using duplicate keys. They also opened the bank counter and reached the vault room which, surprisingly, was not locked. The incident came to light only on Monday when bank staff reached office after a long weekend.
 
 “When the manager   went inside, she found someone had made a desperate attempt to cut open the safe. They could not succeed and a thick mountain of grey powder from the safe covered the floor,” said a senior police officer. It is learnt the safe contained Rs 8 lakh in cash and jewellery amounting to Rs 8.5 lakh.
 
 Surprisingly, the bank has no security guard whereas a nearby ATM has a security person for 24-hours. Police suspect that an insider could be involved, as well as the infamous Jharkhand gang could also be a part of the heist attempt.
 
 The robbers had smashed the CCTV camera and left with the DVR unit. Even the alarm system was broken, according to the police complaint by the bank manager.
 
 Police registered offences under sections 454, 457, 380 and 511 of the IPC at Kapurbawdi police station. The crime branch started a parallel investigation and picked up several persons but could not find anything substantial with them. “A few persons who were doing a POP work nearby were questioned and even an office help was questioned, but so far nothing substantial has been found,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Thane police commissioner   said, “The banks as well as financial institutions needs to be extra cautious about their security. I have directed all the senior police inspectors 34 police stations to visit the banks and check the security for the banks.”
 
 
