Nagpur: The Congress will hold a demonstration in front of the Reserve Bank of India building here on Wednesday to protest demonetisation of Rs1,000 and Rs500 notes. Senior Congress leaders including ex-chief ministers Prithviraj Chavan and Narayan Rane, leader of opposition in state assembly Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, and AICC general secretary Mohan Prakash will lead the agitation.

 A press release by the city unit general secretary Gajraj Hatewar said city president Vikas Thakre, on the directives of AICC, is facilitating the protest at Samvidhan Square between 11am and 3pm. Deputy chairman of legislative council Manikrao Thakre, deputy leader in assembly Vijay Wadettiwar, ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar, ex-ministers Satish Chaturvedi, Nitin Raut and Anees Ahmed will participate, the release said.
 
 “The BJP government at the centre as well as in the state have become adamant and insensitive. It seems power has made them blind to sufferings that millions of people had to endure because of the thoughtless ban on notes two months ago. Far from getting in control, the situation is worsening by the day. Even RSS-affiliated trade union Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh has acknowledged that over three crore workers in unorganized sector lost jobs and were forced to reverse-migrate,” said Muttemwar. He said the public demonstration will make people aware of the disaster of economic slowdown waiting to happen.
 
 “The Congress agitation comes at a time things have returned to normal; there are no queues at ATMs and banks, industries are reopening. This shows mental bankruptcy of the party,” said Girish Vyas, BJP MLC and party spokesman. “With no issues left and unable to counter BJP’s development agenda in state and centre, the Congress is trying in vain to politicize demonetisation policy with an eye on the municipal corporation elections next month,” said Vyas.
 
 After firm assurance that they would not pose any threat to the high-security RBI, the police have permitted the Congress party to hold a peaceful demonstration.
 
 
