VADODARA: The   (VMC) began razing structures coming in the road line on the Alkapuri side of the railway station to widen the road. The civic body will be clearing around one lakh sq m land at the site for making a 30-feet wide road.

 The razing included those structures in the railway premises on one side of the road and private compound walls of private properties on the other side. There was some resistance from members of the   (WRMS), but the issue was resolved later.
 
 VMC commissioner Dr   said that a meeting was convened with those in possession of properties along the road on Wednesday morning. “They have all agreed to accept transferrable floor-space index in lieu of the land that will be acquired for the road,” said Rao.
 
 High drama ensued when the demolition team of VMC reached to raze part of the WRMS office. WRMS office-bearers led by the union’s president   sat on fast unto death when they were told that the corporation will bring down the office six m inside from the road line.
 
 “Earlier, we were told that only our fencing nearly 1.03 foot from the road will be removed to which we had agreed. But when the machine started razing our office, we objected to the drive and sat on hunger strike,” said Pathan, who was joined by several railway employees in the protest.
 
 Things calmed down when WRMS general secretary and vice president of the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen J G Mahurkar, who was in Ahmedabad, received an assurance from Rao that the union’s office will not be demolished. “Both Rao and mayor Bharat Dangar later also assured us that the office would not be razed and hence we ended our protest,” said Pathan.
 
 Rao said that while the space for the road will be cleared immediately, the road margins will be cleared only after alternative space is given to offices of the unions. “The railway is working on this,” he said.
 
 The owners of heritage properties on the stretch have decided to demolish compound walls on their own.
 
 
