In an interesting twist to the beginning of the year, we discovered that it’s Indore’s school students (of classes 11 and 12) who are making enquiries for informal farewell parties this month, as opposed to the college bunch that usually does this. It seems informal farewells are no longer just the college goer’s prerogative. We take a look at the trend.

 
 
 
 Students of class 11 are sparing no expense in organising a party for their seniors. The students of a city-based school recently organised a party at a high-end   in the city, and also hired a DJ and photographer to cover the event. The photographer, Sanskar Mulani shares, “The camaraderie of the seniors and juniors was great. It looked no less than a red carpet affair. The girls pouted for the camera and boys were seen dancing to the beats of the DJ.” Piyush Sahani, a class 12 student of the same school shared, “To make things easy for our juniors, we contributed `300 each so that they don’t feel overburdened. They payed the pub and also the DJ and photographer.”
 
 
 
 
 Besides organising games, the juniors do their best to make the evening special for their seniors. Gurpal Sanga, a class 11 student shared, “We made a clip of the precious moments spent on campus in the last year and showed it to our seniors at the farewell. They enjoyed every bit of it. This was our way of making them feel special.” 
 
 
 
 
 In a bid to look their best for the day, students leave no stone unturned. 
 Prishita Gupta, who is looking forward to her   this month, says, “Our farewell is in the last week of January and I want to look my best. I have already started exercising and am sticking to a proper diet.” Adding to this, Sakshi Jain another class 12 student says, “I got a sari designed for the day. It is a copy of what Deepika Padukone wore in the song  . Can’t wait for the big evening.” 
 
 
 
 
 While some would think that these parties would be all fun and no safety precautions would be taken into account, students like Aman Singh Jadhav insist otherwise. “My friends call me a bouncer, because I’m a little overweight. So, doing complete justice to the tag I will be making sure that no one consumes alcohol and misbehaves at the party,” says the class 12 student. 
 And on the note of safety, Avinash Singh, manager of a club that hosts farewell parties shared, “We allow students to host these parties under complete supervision of bouncers. Drinks aren’t allowed and the timing is allotted keeping in mind that the students need to reach home before 
 . No late night parties are entertained especially when school students are involved.”
