PATNA: The city residents will have to wait for some more time to see   running in the state capital as the Centre has halted the project till the new national metro policy is framed.

 State urban development and housing department (UDHD) special secretary Sanjay Dayal said the Centre has written to the state government to wait for the new policy. However, the officials at state UDHD were not very clear as to what will be there in the new policy.
 
 The sate UDHD had already made the DPR at a cost of around Rs17,000 crore. It was submitted to the central government for approval. After the Centre raised certain objections, the state government had sent quick mobility report and no-objection certificate from all the departments concerned.
 
 Bihar UDHD minister Maheshwar Hazari criticised the central government for politicizing the metro project. “New metro policy is nothing but an excuse to intentionally delay our metro project,” Hazari said, adding, “Our DPR was ready and we got NOC from all the departments. But now, after the new policy, we will have to modify the DPR which will incur monetary loss and delay the project.”
 
 Hazari even accused the NDA government of favouring Nagpur and Lucknow which had submitted the DPR with Patna but got the go-ahead. “Nagpur got the approval because Nitin Gadkari was pressurising the Centre, which also nodded to the Lucknow plan because assembly election was due there. Though I had met then Union urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu four times and visited the department numerous times, they have ignored us,” Hazari added.
 
 He also said the state was ready to bear the entire expenditure and just needed the Centre’s approval.
 
 The DPR of the metro was cleared by the state cabinet in February this year. It was proposed to be connecting two corridors of the city, east-west and north-south. The east-west corridor was proposed to run from Mithapur Bus stand to Saguna Mor via Bailey Road and Patna Junction. The north-south corridor was to start from Patna Junction to the proposed bus stand at Bairiya on Patna-Gaya Road via Ashok Rajpath, Gandhi Maidan and Rajendra Nagar Terminal.
 
 
