PUNE: Roads of the city continue to remain just as unsafe as last year for   alike, year-on-year   compiled by the traffic department reveal. 

 The total number of offences for which penalties were imposed by the   highlights how citizens continue to play with their lives and that of other road users.
 
 According to traffic police records, as many as 410 citizens lost their lives on city roads in 2016, just a notch below the total tally of 435 in 2015, but higher than the total deaths in the preceeding two years. None of the 170 people who died while riding their motorcycles, scooters and mopeds in the year gone by were wearing helmets, statistics further show.
 
 Signal jumping is the most common offence across the city, with more than 3.3 lakh cases, translating into 900 cases daily, registered by the police in 2016. Arguably, two-wheeler riders make up the chunk of the offenders. Road safety experts point out, it’s not only the drivers whose lives come under a risk when they drive through a ‘stop’ signal, but also that of innocent road users who may have actually been on the right side of the law.
 
 Illegal parking is the second most common offence, reflecting a total disregard for traffic rules and road discipline among citizens.
 
 Not using seatbelts, driving on the wrong side and riding without helmets make up the remaining of the top five traffic offences in the year gone by. While driving on the wrong side endangers all road users, seat-belts and helmets ensure safety of the driver.
 
 It is the duty of every citizen to follow traffic rules for their own safety, asserted  , deputy commissioner of police (traffic), who said repeated challaning, or action against every offender are not solutions to the problem. “Pune’s traffic problems are not new. However, matters deteriorate when citizens brazenly flout traffic laws. We are trying to strike a balance between enforcement and traffic management to ensure that roads are safe for all users,” she said.
 
 Defiance of the helmet rule is a grave matter in the city, Baravkar admitted. 
 
 “Despite so many awareness campaigns, citizens refuse to comply even though it is for their own safety. Families have suffered because someone in their home did not consider the helmet essential. Road fatalities can be brought down sizeably if people start respecting the helmet more,” she said.
 
 According to road safety experts, fatalities can be reduced only by stricter enforcement of rules. Saji Cherian, director (operations) of SaveLIFE Foundation said, “If citizens are allowed a free run on the roads without enforcement of traffic rules, it will only result in the roads becoming more unsafe and increasing the fatalities. Traffic management and enforcement are different issues and must not be confused. Where man-power crunch is the main reason for lack of enforcement, technology should be relied on for the same, especially rules like signal jumping or helmet use”. Activists and road safety experts also point to a larger problem of mindsets which they emphasize require to be changed as part of a continuous and year-long effort through stricter enforcement and awareness campaigns, rather than through the observance of Road Safety Week annually.
 
