GURUGRAM: The   has decided to rope in   to fill up vacant posts of   at   in a move that will help tap experienced workforce and boost healthcare services.

 Under the new scheme of things, doctors, who have just retired or about to retire on attaining the age of 58 years (the prescribed age for retirement), are being given an   of seven years — till the age of 65 years. The only requirement is that doctors on extension would have to serve as specialists at government hospitals.
 
 If health department sources are to be believed, 81 retired doctors — three former director-general of health services, four chief medical officers, 24 deputy medical officers, 38 senior medical officers and two doctors of medical science — have already been shortlisted for the purpose.
 
 “Over a hundred former doctors, including those who had attained the retirement age a few years ago, had applied for the posts. The shortlisted ones are expected to get the extension by the end of this month and they will join their posts by next month,” said Dr MP Singh, vice president, Haryana Civil Medical Services Association.
 
 “However, those who have departmental inquiries pending against them will not be considered for the jobs till they are cleared of the same,” he added.
 
 Moreover, Singh added, the doctors on extension would not be given any administrative post and would have to be involved entirely in treatment of patients. Nevertheless, the selected doctors will be posted at the hospitals of their choice.
 
 Officials in the health department said the government took the step after it failed to attract enough doctors — both general physicians and specialists — to fill up vacancies at hospitals across Haryana. Despite repeated attempts, only 178 candidates applied for the 662-odd vacancies advertised by the health department in November 2016. The officials added only 15 specialists had joined the state health department in the past 10 years.
 
 Currently, there are only 1,700 doctors, as against 3,250 sanctioned posts, to take care of a population of 2.25 crore across Haryana. 
 
 The actual situation is even worse as the number of sanctioned posts has not been revised in over a decade, and, in an ideal scenario, there should be at least 6,000 doctors in Haryana. Similarly, in Gurgaon, 45 out of 160 sanctioned posts are lying vacant at General Hospital. 
 
