BHOPAL: Countdown has begun for reopening of  . Construction of washable apron and platform number 1 continue at a feverish pace. Contractors and labourers are rushing to finish work within the set deadline of January, they are not sure if the would be able to beat the deadline. 

 Division officials are confident the work would get finished ahead of the deadline as work was specified to them. More than 90% work is over and the rest will be complete in remaining time, they say.
 
 "Tr ack and washable apron construction have been almost complete. We are giving finishing touches, which will be completed by 9, or a day before or after, provided there is no technical glitch," said Junaid Usmani, contractor for washable apron at  . 
 
 Labourers, requesting anonymity said, one more week than deadline is required. We are working throughout the day, but lack of some facilities is delaying the work.
 
 A couple of days after the construction of platform began, WCR chief engineer, Jabalpur, inspected the work. contractor was instructed to get all machines so that the work can be completed on time. It was delayed and contractors continued to work manually instead of machines to mix concrete and lift floor blocks.
 
 "There will be no delay. Contractors have been working round-the-clock to complete the project till January 9. Renovation of platform will give station a different look. As soon as we get the nod, it will be open for people," said I A Siddiqui, spokesperson for  .
 
 In new makeover of platform 1, the height of platform has been raised. The floor has been engraved with disabled-friendly tiles so that those who cannot see, can estimate the distance from train and catch the train.
 
 Works, which remain incomplete finishing at platform slab, construction at both ends of platform and washable apron, construction of general and woman waiting room and, of course, a trial before platform one opens for trains and passengers.
 
 "As there was fewer footfall in female waiting room and in general it was increasing, we decided to extend general and decrease the area of ladies waiting room," said a senior official. 
 
 
