LUCKNOW: The crackdown on petrol pumps indulging in unfair practices continued across the state on Wednesday. Microchips for tampering were found in two fuel dispensing machines at a   in Moradabad district on  . The machines were sealed, though no arrests were made. A device was earlier recovered from a filling station and was sent to the oil firm’s regional office in Meerut for further investigation, a report on which is awaited. 

 The joint exercise by the administrative authorities and oil companies to check tampering at fuel stations continued for the fifth day on Wednesday. Officials under the supervision of district supply officer Sanjeev Kumar raided a petrol pump under the jurisdiction of Dalpatpur police station on Wednesday. Police officials, two magistrates and employees from weights and measures department and staffers of oil companies conducted the raid.
 
 Out of six petrol pumps inspected so far, machines in two were found tampered. Kumar told TOI, “We discovered two chips in the dispensing units of the pump, which had been forcibly removed from inside the motherboard of the machines. An FIR has been lodged against the fuel station staff. “A seven-member police team has been constituted to conduct more raids at fuel pumps in the days to come,” the DSO added.
 
 Meanwhile, in  , the inspecting team sealed a petrol pump owned reportedly by a politically connected person. District supply officer Deepak Kumar Varshney told TOI, “The petrol pump against which we took action was delivering 20 mililiters less in 5 liters. We conducted raids on other petrol pumps too, he added.
 
 The   district administration conducted a random cheking of petrol pumps on Wednesday to detect unfair practice in sale of petrol and diesel and though no electronic chip was found in any dispensing unit, the seals of two units were found broken at a petrol pump. Officials of district administration and oil companies raided a petrol pump of Indian Oil Corporation in Civil Lines area and checked four dispensing machines. They found one of the machines dispensing less fuel than value for money. The machine was sealed.
 
 In another raid conducted in Bahawarnath bypass area, the seals of two machines out of four were found broken. These machines were also sealed. The acting district magistrate P P Singh said legal action would be initiated against the petrol pump owners for irregular sale of fuel. He added that there are 161 petrol pumps in the district and the checking drive would continue.
 
 
