DEHRADUN: A war of words has broken out between the Congress and the BJP in Uttarakhand with two   —  , the  , and urban development minister   — locking their horns over decisions taken by the   government in the past two months.
 
  Firing a fresh salvo at the BJP government on Friday, Hridayesh alleged that the state’s excise policy was “against the women and aimed to benefit the liquor mafia”.
  
  Hridayesh alleged that women of Uttarakhand had been protesting for over a month against opening of liquor vends, but “their voices remained unheard.” However, at the same time, the leader of opposition criticised the government for opening liquor vends for just six hours in nine hill districts, stating that it would promote illegal sale of liquor.
  
  Buttressing her argument, Hridayesh said, “Former chief minister B C Khanduri too had restricted liquor sale up to 8pm, but it was again extended to 10pm under pressure. The Congress is against liquor sale in the state, but the BJP should make its stand clear on the issue. At the one hand, the BJP government wants to reduce dependence on liquor for revenue generation, while on the other, it has raised the excise collection target.”
  
  Taking up the issue of Ganga cleaning under the Namami Gange project, the Congress leader criticised the state government for knocking the Supreme Court’s doors, citing technical, geographical and administrative issues on according “living status” to the Ganga and Yamuna rivers.
  
  However, taking exception to allegations levelled by Hridayesh, Kaushik said, “She is the senior most leader in the assembly, and we welcome if she gives an important advice to the government, but such childish statements on serious issues are not expected from a seasoned campaigner.”
  
  On the issue of excise policy, the BJP leader said, “In a sting video, an employ of former CM Harish Rawat was found negotiating changes in the excise policy. Therefore, the Congress has no right to criticise the BJP, which is dedicated for the people of Uttarakhand.”
  
  He also reminded Hridayesh that the Centre had released Rs 800 crore under the Namami Gange project. “They (Congress) failed to work on the project and convince the Centre, but now they are coming with baseless allegations,” said, the minister, adding that Hridayesh needs to get her facts corrected on the issue of approaching the apex court.
  
  “Why should be the chief secretary of Uttarakhand held accountable if the Ganga is polluted in   or Bihar? We wrote to the Centre that we should have been given an opportunity to put our views before the Supreme Court. There is no need for Hridayesh or others to overreact in the matter,” said Kaushik.
