 was supposed to headline the Gurgaon edition of the EDM festival VH1 Supersonic on February 12. The DJ, who is making his India debut with this tour, was to play at the   Grounds. However, now, the gig stands cancelled since Section 144 has been enforced in Gurgaon due to Jat agitation. 

  
 
 In anticipation of the Jat agitation, which has resumed in Haryana from January 29, authorities in Gurgaon enforced Section 144 in the district. The order prohibits gatherings of five or more people. Even though initially the order was from January 27 to January 30, it has not been lifted yet. 
 
  To avoid any problem, the organisers have decided to cancel the gig, anticipating security concerns. They issued a statement on their Facebook page on Thursday, which said, “We regret to inform you that due to the developing scenario in and around Gurgaon and the imposition of Section 144 of the IPC, we are forced to cancel Eric Prydz’s event at HUDA grounds, Gurgaon... We understand that this cancellation is enormously disappointing to Eric’s fans but under the circumstances, feel that we have no other option.”
 
  Prydz’s Pune show, however, remains unaffected. In order to make it up to the DJ’s fans, the organizers are offering a three-day pass for the Pune leg of the festival to those who bought tickets for the Gurgaon gig. Despite this exchange deal, music fans are not happy with the cancellation.
 
  
 Gurgaon has had a chequered history with concerts of international artists. While the Millennium City is a preferred choice for gigs with global musicians, often, gigs have been cancelled in the past due to administration or other issues. In 2011, Metallica’s highly-anticipated concert was cancelled due to poor crowd management. In 2015, Alt-J’s concert was cancelled due to bad weather, and last year, Major Lazer’s gig was cancelled due to the Jat agitations.
 
  Music lovers who were looking forward to the February 12 concert are a disappointed lot. Ashutosh Kumar, who works as an IT manager in Gurgaon, says, “Whenever a big gig is scheduled in Gurgaon, I feel ki pata nahin yeh concert hoga bhi ya nahin. It’s disappointing when you plan in advance for events and they get cancelled.” 
 
  Sushil Kashyap, a college student who lives in Gurgaon, says, “They are offering Pune tickets, but what about the airfare? And for attending a concert in Gurgaon I only need a half day. To attend the Pune concert, one would need at least two days.”
 
  Also, Prydz is known for travelling from show to show by bus, train or ship. Shweta Thakur, a hairstylist who calls herself a die-hard fan of Prydz, rues, “He doesn’t like flying and he was coming to India for the first time. It was indeed a big deal for us. But now that he is not coming to Gurgaon and Supersonic is giving three-day tickets for Pune, I might attend the Pune gig just to hear him.”
 
  
  
 Eric Prydz
 
 
 It wasn’t just music lovers who lost out on a concert. Gurgaon’s runners couldn’t participate in events either.   had organized a trip to Dighal, a village in Jhajjar district. But they had to cancel the trip. “We had organized a trip to Dighal which is a paradise for bird watchers. We had scheduled the trip for January 29, but when we got to know about the Jat agitation, we thought it was better to cancel the trip. Since a lot of kids, as well as women, were part of the trip, we did not want to take any chances,” says Anushree Mishra, founder of Gurgaon Walkers. 
 
  Keeping in mind last year’s cancellations due to the Jat stir, many annual events have been scheduled to a later date this year. The Amity Gurgaon Half Marathon, and the Women on Walk organized by an NGO, were cancelled last year. This year, Amity’s marathon is scheduled for February 26 and Women on Walk is in March, and the organisers are hopeful that Section 144 will be lifted by then.
 
  
 
 
