NAGPUR: Slamming the police’s mala fide intentions, the Nagpur bench of  , on Friday, quashed two FIRs lodged against   ( ) at Hingna, terming it as “abuse of process of law”.

 Citing advocate general (AG) Rohit Deo’s reports granting clean chit to the association’s office-bearers, a division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Indira Jain made it clear that “no offence was made out of rash and negligent acts from the VCA’s part”.
 
 They blasted police commissioner K Venkatesh for showing utter disrespect to the highest constitutional authority — AG — by not adhering to his opinion. “This is highly deplorable conduct on their part. We deprecate such practice on the part of government officer (CP) in going to extent that he wants to examine opinion of state’s highest law officer. Even chief secretary abide by his opinion,” the judges tersely noted after CP sought two weeks to reply on AG’s affidavits. 
 
 They orally questioned on how can a subordinate police officer examine AG’s opinion. “You want to dig out something just to prove your charges. You first requested them (VCA) to take back their allegations and after their withdrawal, you added new charges against them. This is volte-face done by you. In fact, the cheating charges should be slapped against you,” they said, before orally apologizing the AG for cops refusal. 
 
 They also flayed the policemen, who were seen in the CCTV footage during the T20 match between India and England played at VCA’s Jamtha stadium. “It shows that all of them were looking in front and camera is at their backside. When they’re claiming that stadium was unsafe and cause danger to the public, they should be looking towards the cameras instead of looking in front (for watching match). Their investigations too, didn’t point out any material to go ahead with the offences,” the judges added, while allowing two criminal applications filed by VCA.
 
 The court set aside FIRs lodged on January 31, first regarding offences under Sections 188 and 336 of   and Sections 131(a) and 135 of Maharashtra Police Act, 1951. The second was related to offences under Section 15(1) of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, read with Rules 5(1), (2), 7(2) of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000.
 
 Earlier, Deo, who was personally present in the court, submitted two affidavits related to two FIRs where he denied all charges made against the VCA office-bearers, who were made accused without any specific role attributed to them. He made it clear that neither the   makes any reference to the commission of offences, nor there was any factual foundation. 
 
 “The IPC sections, under which VCA office-bearers have been charged, don’t contemplate any vicarious liability. In absence of specific allegations against them, it would not be appropriate or legally permissible to continue criminal proceedings against them for offences allegedly committed by the VCA,” the AG mentioned.
 
 He clarified that absence of occupancy or completion certificate can’t be termed as rash and negligent act attracting Section 336. “There is no material to suggest even prima facie that the construction is not stable or possess any danger to human life or personal safety. By no stretch of imagination can alleged transgression of not obtaining MPCB consent, be a rash and negligent act with criminal culpability. Neither the FIR, not investigations report throws any light on how VCA officials flouted rules.”
 
 Deo also stated that offences under Environment Act, can’t be lodged by any police officer as they’re not authorized to do so under Section 19. He referred to the central’s notification of April 16, 1987 where various officers were authorized to lodge the complaint, but no policemen are covered in that. “I would strongly suggest that there is no justification for continuing with prosecution in both FIRs,” he stated.
 
