RAIPUR: Not ready to sing duet songs with your boss in the Railways? Then, be prepared to face the music. A woman clerk in Bilaspur   has been shunted out and a   notice has been slapped on her for refusing to sing few duet songs to be sung with general manager during a get-together function. 

 While Railways argue that the women employee, appointed under 'cultural quota' cannot refuse to obey instructions, Railway employees unions are all set to raise the issue with National Women’s Commission. 
 
 The issue came to light after women senior clerk was issued a show cause notice, stating that "on January 15, during the final rehearsal for cultural program, you failed to obey instructions of DRM, Raipur, in connection with preparations of a few duet songs to sing with general manager during a get-together function organised on January 16." 
 
 "During the said programme on January 16, when South East Central Railway(SECR) general manager expressed his desire to sing a particular song, you flatly refused to sing the duet song saying that you have not come with preparations to sing the song. You being an employee appointed under cultural quota cannot suppose to refuse to perform when clear instructions in advance were given by DRM, Raipur", the notice read. The notice also said this showed her irresponsible attitude towards work and DRM has taken a serious view of the incident, adding that thus she has committed gross misconduct and failed to maintain absolute devotion towards her duty. 
 
 The notice says that the woman clerk concerned has "failed in maintaining the devotion to duty and she is supposed to do nothing unbecoming of a railway servant. Thus she has contravened the provisions of Rule 3 (ii) (iii) of Railway Servants (Conduct) rules 1966 and thereby rendered herself liable for disciplinary action under Railway Servants (Discipline and Service) Rules 1968 as amended from time to time." 
 
 Sources said the get-together function was organised in connection with the send-off of Bilaspur Zone general manager Satyendra Kumar, who is attaining superannuation by the end of this month. 
 
 Meanwhile, a railway spokesman said in Bilaspur that the matter of issuing such a charge-sheet to women clerk concerned has come to the notice of general manager, who has promised to take appropriate steps to rectify it.
 
