BEIJING: The Doklam stand-off between India and China and the consequent peace agreement is one of the issues that will figure prominently in discussions at the upcoming   on October 18.

 Many among the Chinese elite and party rank and file were not in favour of going for the agreement on troop withdrawal after weeks of the border standoff, David  , research director at Beijing-based consultancy China Policy, said in his lecture here on Tuesday evening.
 
 Kelly said, “It (border agreement) is a big publicity loss... The newspaper-reading public is not satisfied. Readers believe that if the   can attack, it should attack”.
 
 Apart from discussing the Doklam issue threadbare, the Party Congress comprising 2,800 delegates will elect the new set of leaders in the party’s Politburo standing committee, led by the general secretary and president Xi Jinping, who is expected to get a second five-year term.
 
 The ordinary Chinese believe that their country is a dominant military power in Asia, so there was no need for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “to stand still” on the border for six long weeks and finally enter in to a peace agreement if it really believed that Indian troops had invaded Chinese territory, analysts said. The agreement has somehow raised questions concerning the government’s claim about India invading Chinese territory, they felt.
 
 The situation was very different when the International Court of Justice delivered a judgment against China’s claims on the   in July last year. All sections of the Chinese public and the intelligentsia were with the government in rejecting the verdict because they firmly believed that much of the sea area rightfully belonged to China.
 
 Kelly said this was not the case during the border standoff with India, which resulted in diverse opinions being voiced across different platforms in the Chinese media and by the strategic analysts. There are signs that the government could not get full endorsement of its actions from all sections of the public.
 
 Some analysts felt that a military issue of this kind would involve decision making at the highest level, which includes president Xi Jinping. Some other analysts thought that military commanders posted in the border region may have made pre-emptive moves that need to be supported by the political authorities in the government, Kelly said.
 
