Tau Devi Lal Stadium, in the heart of Gurgaon, hosts more political rallies and events than sporting events. So, it was a different scene in the stadium when hundreds of fans gathered for a sporting tournament. The reason was cricketer  's presence. Yuvraj, however, wasn't wielding a willow this time around. He was in town as the chief guest at the inauguration of a corporate cricket league to be played all through March and April at the stadium.

 
 The league, organised by the  , has ten teams representing different corporate houses from the city battling it out against each other in weekend fixtures over the next month. Commenting on the importance of cricket in a corporate city like Gurgaon, Yuvraj said, "This is a city of corporates. A huge population here works in these MNCs and I think after a day of hard work in office, coming out and playing some sport is important to break the monotony. So, it's good that all those corporates who like cricket and want to play are getting this platform. Corporate cricket is a good fit for Gurgaon!"
 
  
  FIt in a frame:   takes a selfie with his young fan in Gurgaon
 
 
 
  
 While celebs are usually notorious for their lack of punctuality at events, Yuvraj created a mini commotion by doing just the opposite. He reached the venue half an hour before his scheduled arrival, which caused a frenzy among the organisers, who were caught a bit unprepared. "I just couldn't wait to be here," joked Yuvraj. In fact, the Indian all-rounder even quizzed the media personnel for being 'late'. He said, "Phir aap log kehte ho ki main wait karaata hoon, jab ki khud hi time par nahin aate aap sab."
 
  
  (L-R) Shabnam, Yuvraj's mother
 Zorawar Singh, Yuvraj's brother (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The tournament is supported by Yuvraj's cancer charity and the opening match was attended by underprivileged cancer survivors supported by the charity. Yuvraj even interacted with these kids. “When you are undergoing treatment for cancer, it's not easy to get out and have fun because the disease is weighs you down at all the time. So it's good for the kids, because they need to get out and forget their worries for some time. This time, they should just enjoy the game. I know how important it is because I have been through this, and back then, I yearned for chances to go out and have fun," he later said.
 
  
 The 10th season of the Indian Premier League begins next month, and Yuvraj has started preparing for it. This is the first time that a sizable number of English cricketers will be playing in the IPL and Yuvraj has quite a history with English opponents. His most memorable feat – hitting six sixes in an over – was against England 10 years ago. However, Yuvraj admits that since then, the bowlers have become more skillful and it's next to impossible to repeat the feat now. "I would love to repeat that feat some day, but it’s getting tougher every year. The bowlers of today are much more skillful than back then. It’s not an easy feat to begin with, and now, with the variations these new bowlers have, batsmen have their work cut out for them. Yes, batsmen still dominate, but it’s becoming almost impossible to repeat that."
 
  
 
 
