CHENNAI: It looks like TTV Dhinakaran and V Dhivakaran, the two prominent but warring members in the   general secretary V K Sasikala’s family, have called a truce. “There are no differences between us and we will work together for the betterment of the AIADMK,” Sasikala’s brother Dhivakaran told reporters in Thanjavur on Friday.

 The platform for the two to shake hands though was not created by any deft political manoeuvre. It was rather a death in Sasikala’s family.
 
  and Dhivakaran’s elder brother, Sundharavadhanam’s wife,  , who was undergoing treatment at a Chennai hospital, had died and the last rites were performed on Friday at her residence in Thanjavur. Dhinakaran is the son-in-law of the deceased. 
 
 Both Dhivakaran and Dhinakaran were in Thanjavur to attend the funeral. Sasikala, who is serving a prison term in Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara jail, could not attend as her application for parole was reportedly rejected by prison authorities.
 
 At the Thanjavur residence, both Dhinakaran and Dhivakaran were seated next to each other, seen consoling family members and also exchanging pleasantries with partymen.
 
 “We have assembled here for a bereavement in the family. Hence, I do not want to discuss politics,” Dhinakaran told reporters. Divakaran said AIADMK was going through "challenging times" and compared the party to Mahabharatha's Abhimanyu, who is killed after he enters the 'Chakravyuh' battle formation.
 
 "(Lord) Krishna taught Abhimanyu how to enter chakravyuh but not on how to come out. AIADMK (today) is like Abhimanyu," he said. He was confident that AIADMK would emerge from its "present troubles". Dhivakaran said. He said Edappadi K Palaniswami was doing a good job as chief minister.
 
 Palaniswami, meanwhile, revived hopes of a merger when he told reporters, "I believe the unification will happen." Sasikala family loyalist MLAs and party leaders including Senthil Balaji, Vetrivel, Thanga Thamilselvan, Jaggayan and Palaniappan were present.
 
 The patch up between the two warring family members has its significance politically, with just about a week to go for the August 5 deadline fixed by Dhinakaran for getting back actively to handle AIADMK affairs. 
 
