ROHTAK: More than two years after registration of a case in the  , a   on Friday acquitted all the three accused after finding them innocent.Sisters   and Aarti, then students of Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA), had become an overnight sensation in 2014 after a video that showed them beating up three youths they claimed were harassing them on a moving   bus was circulated online. The sisters from   were hailed as `bravehearts'.

 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harish Goyal observed, “There is no material which can be used to frame charges against the accused....“ The Haryana government had even decided to award the girls for their bravery, but backtracked when some passengers on the bus claimed that the fight was over a seat on the bus and the boys had not molested them.
 
 Subsequently, a case was registered on November 28, 2014, against the trio of Mohit, Deepak and Kuldeep, residents of Asan village, under sections of outraging modesty of women and voluntarily causing hurt of the Indian Penal Code. They were arrested but later granted bail.
 
 However, another video of the girls beating another set of boys had raised questions about the authenticity of the events.
 
 A local khap and village council had moved to sort out the issue at personal level but could not succeed following the intervention of State Women Commission.
 
 Defense counsel advocate Pardeep Malik said 40 witnesses had recorded their statements in favour of the accused, saying that the row was over a seat in the bus, and not a case of molestation. The then deputy superintendent of police, Yashpal Khatana, had led a Special Investigation Team probe in the case. According to reports, a lie-detector test conducted on the accused suggested that they were not lying about the incident.
 
 Prosecutor Attar Singh Panwar said they would move the high court to seek justice in the case.
 
 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harish Goyal observed, “ There is no material which can be used to frame charges against the accused in the case. Hence discharged.“
 
 
