Contract killer, thug, henchman are not quite the description that fits a writer of children's stories, but for actor and theatre director   it's the range of his creativity and personality. Known for his baddie roles in films like 'Kabali', he is also the writer of quirky yet simple stories in both English and Tamil.

 For Amarendran, who has been writing for the stage for more than two decades, penning for kids helps him escape into a world of fantasy. "Penning stories for children is special because it has allowed me to go back to my childhood when imagination ran wild with Nick Carter-style heroes set in some obscure Indian village," says Amarendran, who also works as a translator, being well-versed in Tamil, English and French, when not under the arc lights.
 
 His latest offering, a picture book called 'Salim the Knife-sharpener', was picked up by the   (OUP), Pakistan, last year. It tells the charming story of a knife-sharpener, and how he finds unusual customers in a forest. "Over the years OUP, Pakistan, has republished a lot of books from our stable. This particular story must have interested them as it resonates with children across the sub-continent who are likely to have come across a knife-sharpener. It's a fascinating tale and not something we often come across," says Deeya Nair, senior editor at  , which has published all of Amarendran's books.
 
 Though stories are always "simmering in his mind", Amarendran's first published work, also a picture book for pre-school kids, happened by chance. "That book, 'Siri's Smile' (2011), was written in 45 minutes in between shoots in my caravan. It was meant to be a small story that would also serve as an invitation for an acquaintance's daughter's first birthday. But when I sent it a publisher, they liked it," he says. Fantasy, imagination, rhyme, a not-so-didactically-told moral are the signature of his narratives. "Stories help children find their voice and through my writing I like to offer something that provokes a child to imagine and explore," says Amarendran, who has scripted, directed and produced several English and French plays in the city. 'Siri's Smile' was also selected by NCERT for its   2012-13 as suggested reading to promote the habit of reading in youngsters.
 
 A prolific writer, he already has half a dozen stories for children, which has nuggets of wisdom about the environment, friendship and homecoming. Having travelled extensively as a translator and interpreter to countries like Algeria and Congo, the 53-year-young author plans to move on from picture books to novellas for young adults. "I have a number of ideas, including one for an Anglo-Indian cook book and a political thriller. But I will keep writing for children. I am happy I could bring a smile to children's faces and want to keep doing so."
 
