PUNE: The   (PMRDA) will soon ensure   to   in a bid to  .

 At PMRDA’s first meeting with Lavasa authorities on Thursday, it was decided to do away with Lavasa’s gated city status and make it more welcoming for tourists and vacationers. The PMRDA now wants to call Lavasa a “city for all”.
 
 It was only last month that the government had cancelled the special planning authority (SPA) status of Lavasa and made the move to give PMRDA full control over the hill station. On July 3, the planning authority received the official notification from the urban development department, and said it would review all permissions taken after December 4, 2015. 
 
 “The main objective (here) is to provide tourists from Pune, Mumbai and their outskirts a hill station within Pune district. We want to develop Lavasa as a tourism destination, and we will set up an office here to develop it accordingly,” PMRDA chief   said after Thursday’s meeting.
 
 Issues like exorbitant parking fees, or for that matter any issue that does not come under the ambit of the hill station, stands to be reviewed, said Gitte. The meeting on Thursday was attended by PMRDA planner Vivek Kharwadkar, planners Suresh Pendharkar and Mukund Rathi, and senior vice-president David Amalraj.
 
 The PMRDA also plans to develop the government land in the area covered by 18 villages which come in the hill station limits. The hill station was formed in 2001, and covered the villages spread across the Mulshi and Velhe talukas of Pune district. Lavasa the city occupies 10,500 of the 23,000 acres of hill station land. 
 
 In 2008, the previous state government gave Lavasa SPA status to enable development of 14 of the 18 villages. According to revenue officials, the government had decided to revoke the SPA status as, with the setting up of PMRDA in 2015, there was no need for any other authority. 
 
 SPA gave the developer power to draw up land-use plans for its jurisdiction, develop said land, sanction constructions and take action against irregularities. All this will now be done by PMRDA.
 
