GURUGRAM: On a sweltering summer’s day, the laboured huff and puff of a steam engine, punctuated by its faintly melancholic whistle, almost made one forget about the heat. For a moment, it felt as if a time machine had taken you back to an era when these magnificent machines chugged their majestic way across the Subcontinent.

  After restoring the 1953 Jung  , the Heritage Transport Museum on Saturday fired up the engine, bringing it hissing and tooting back to life. The era of the steam engine, all sepia tones, may be long over, but there’s clearly plenty of interest in – and nostalgia for – these huffing and puffing monsters.
 
  For the last couple of decades, the ‘Jung’ had been lying feeling snubbed in the premises of  , in Dehri-on-sone, Bihar. It took 10 days to lug the 40-tonne beast to Taoru village in Haryana, and 34 days to transform it into an impressive work of science and art that wouldn’t have seemed out of place in the heyday of the steam engine.
 
  Usually, high-grade coal would have been used to fire the engine but for lack of the said constituent, the museum had to make do with wood blocks.
 
 On a day as hot as this, it took a brave soul to venture close to the boiler, where temperatures ranged from 900F to 1,100F, and observe the alchemic process. The true hero of the restoration operation is likely  , an unassuming and genial retired senior section engineer, who joined   (Perambur, Chennai) in 1963. It has been as much a labour of love for   as it has been for Tarun Thakral, founder and managing trustee of the museum.
 
  “There’s so much in the country that is of historical value which many of us don’t appreciate,” offered Thakral. “Because of this lack of appreciation, a lot of it gets consigned as scrap, and sold as scrap.” Indeed, scrap was what the 1953 Jung Steam Locomotive once was, until Rangaswamy, Thakral and their teams managed to salvage it, in a devoted effort to preserve a fine piece of India’s transportation past.
 
  What a sight the steam locomotive would have presented back then! The only thing missing on Saturday was a pith-helmeted Englishman or three nearby, waiting, no doubt, to head indoors to nurse a gin and tonic.
 
