TRICHY: Consumer protection council has taken strong exception to the city corporation charging residents for solid waste management. The council urged the corporation to roll back the charges as citizens were already paying various taxes for the corporation to discharge its duties. 

 However, the city corporation maintains that it has been charging only nominally towards solid waste management than any other civic body. Besides, they were only following the norms laid out by Swachh Bharat Mission. A resident who is liable to pay Rs 500 as property tax every half yearly has been charged Rs 5 per month. The solid waste management charge for those paying up to Rs 1,000 every half yearly is Rs 10. 
 
 “But if a resident has to pay Rs 3,000 as property tax to the corporation, they have to pay Rs 90 towards  . There are no such charges collected by other corporations in the state,” says secretary of consumer protection council S Pushpavanam.
 
 The civic body has been collecting property tax, professional tax, water charges and underground drainage maintenance charges. Its primary duty is to keep the city clean by clearing garbage, providing sanitation by constructing and maintaining drains and disposing of sewage besides laying and maintaining roads. For laying and maintaining roads, it gets special funds from the state government which also accounts for its deficit and special projects.
 
 “Now they levy charges on solid waste management. But if we allow them to do so, tomorrow they may also levy charges for cleaning the streets, maintaining drains and paying salaries to staff and fuel charges for officials,” said Pushpavanam. Dismissing claims that other civic bodies were not charging for solid waste management, city corporation commissioner and special officer N Ravichandran said many of the municipalities had been charging it in their respective civic body and Trichy has been charging the minimum. 
 
 “We have so far been levying charges for solid waste management in commercial establishments only. It was only now that we started charging residents,” said the commissioner while adding that it will not be an additional burden to citizens.
 
