PUNE: A sessions court here has sentenced a 25-year-old youth from Niradharnagar in Pimpri to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a four-year-old girl in November 2014.

 The girl had returned home from her playschool around noon on November 12, 2014, when her mother went to visit a nearby market after asking a woman in the neighbouring house to look after the child. Sometime between noon and 4pm when the woman had gone to her house to attend to a phone call, accused Chivlya, alias Ram Madhukar Kare, committed   on the   girl. He hurriedly left the house when the woman returned.
 
 The girl narrated her harrowing experience to the woman and later to her mother. Following her medical examination, her mother lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police and Chivlya was arrested.
 
 The complainant died during the course of the trial and since the girl's father was not staying with them, she was kept under the care of an NGO working for kids in distress.
 
 Public prosecutor Rajesh Kavedia examined total nine witnesses in support of the prosecution's case. The accused claimed in defence that he was falsely implicated as the complainant’s family was not on good terms with her neighbours. He also claimed that the evidence provided by the survivor was tutored.
 
 In a ruling on April 10, additional sessions judge S. M. Menjoge dismissed the defence arguments, observing that the same was not backed by sufficient evidence. The judge relied on the steady and credible evidence given by the survivor and held that the NGO looking after the girl had no grouse against the accused so as to tutor her.
 
 The court sentenced the accused to 10-years rigorous imprisonment for the offence under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and to seven years imprisonment for each of the offences under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of   Act and Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The sentences are to run concurrently, the court ruled, and added that the amount of total fine of Rs 25,000 imposed on the convict be given to the victim.
 
 The court, while refusing any leniency to the accused, cited   rulings, which held that the measure of punishment in a case of rape cannot depend upon the social status but, must depend on the conduct of the accused. The accused had sought leniency on the grounds that he was a married person.
 
 Judge S M Menjoge observed, "The victim was four years’ old when she was raped by the accused. The court cannot forget the sorrow, grief and traumatic condition of the minor girl. Accused is a married person yet he raped the minor to fulfil his lust. Now, it is time to handle such cases with an iron hand when charges are proved beyond reasonable doubt, particularly after the unfortunate Nirbhaya incident. Therefore, no leniency can be shown to the accused in such a heinous offence, otherwise victims and society will lose faith in judiciary."
 
