NEW DELHI: The   case reverberated in   after a long interval on Monday with   members Nishikant Dubey and Meenakshi Lekhi raising the demand for re-opening the payoff investigation in the light of evidences and reports of the CAG that have not been finalised.

 New Delhi MP Lekhi said there were documents pertaining to discussions between the then Indian PM Rajiv Gandhi and Swedish leader Olof Palme which pointed to a mutual accommodation.
 
 BJP’s Godda MP Dubey said, “CBI should open and re-investigate the case. The CBI had sought permission earlier as well, but the UPA government did not allow them.”
 
 Dubey was referring to the response recorded in the CAG report on Bofors which states that the CBI request to file an appeal against the Delhi High Court order acquitting the Hinduja brothers and the firm Karyongen Kemi Och Forvaltning (formerly AB Bofors) was turned down by the UPA government.
 
 The department of personnel and training, the administrative control of the CBI, was intimated on September 8, 2005 that “CBI is of the view that it was a fit case for moving the government of India for filing a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the judgment dated 31.5.2005 of the high court”, the action taken on the CAG report noted.
 
 Dubey is a member of a sub-committee of the Public Accounts Committee that examined the pending Bofors report and asked then CBI director Rakesh Asthana whether the investigation that dated back to 1990 could be reopened. Asthana told the committee that he would seek the government’s view and get back.
 
 The CAG report recorded how Italian businessman Ottavio Quattrocchi’s London bank accounts with 3 million pounds were unfreezed and CBI’s bid to reverse the order failed. The funds were promptly withdrawn by Quattrocchi, now deceased, on January 16, 2006.
 
 The BJP clearly intends to raise the corruption issue against Congress, calculating that while several persons in the Bofors saga are no more, the Hindujas are around and were investigated in the payoffs case.
 
 Referring to a TV channel report, Lekhi said the genie of Bofors was out of the bottle again. Her remarks came when opposition members from Congress and TMC were demanding a discussion on ‘gau rakshaks’ and lynchings.
 
 “According to Sten Lindstrom (Swedish police official who led the investigation), documents related to that discussion (between Rajiv Gandhi and Olof Palme) are still somewhere with the government. To say that it is an old case and it should be forgotten is wrong, because when old issues are not settled, their ghosts return to haunt,” Lekhi said.
 
