KOLKATA: On December 21, model-turned-actress   had written a post saying: "U'll never feel my anguish!" While 27 people had "liked" her comment, one had pressed the sad emoticon. But perhaps, nobody had truly felt her anguish. If they had, less than two months later, the semi-decomposed body of "Kalkijug", "Banchha Elo Phire" and yet-to-be-released "Baghini" actor would not have been found in an upscale residential township on EM Bypass. She would not have reached a point of no return where the only option left for her was to slit her wrist before hanging herself.

 This incident is an addition to the existing list of three suicide cases in Tollywood in the past two years. The question being asked is obvious. Is depression becoming an epidemic in the glamour industry with few asking for help before it is too late?
 
 Bengal's film and television fraternity has had a history of depression cases. If some have hit the bottle, others have slit wrists. Many have withdrawn into a shell too. It's only in recent times that depression has claimed four lives in such quick succession.
 
 Way back in 2003, Mita Deb Roy, who had played Prosenjit Chatterjee's heroine in " ", had succumbed to depression after two of her films were shelved and she was deserted by her husband. Mita was then found begging on the streets. Actor Roopa Ganguly, who was then the secretary of West Bengal Motion Pictures Artistes' Forum, had given Mita and her seven-year-old daughter shelter in her own house.
 
 In 2010, Roopa had appeared in a show titled "Sach Ka Saamna" where she was asked if she had regretted having attempted suicide. Roopa had replied in the affirmative. She had also gone on record about how she had thrice attempted suicide - once before her son was born and twice later. Thankfully, she was rescued on all occasions.
 
 But the recent suicide attempts yielded fatal results. On July 11 last year, actress Puja Aich had tried to commit suicide after she had set herself alight. Later, she was rushed to the SSKM hospital by her in-laws. Though she underwent treatment with third degree burns, Puja had finally succumbed to her injuries.
 
 In the same month, Tollywood hairdresser Dipa Mullick had committed suicide at her residence in Regent Park. She was supposedly upset with her mother after quarrelling with her for some days.
 
 On April 9, 2015, 23-year-old actress Disha Ganguly of "Tumi Ashbey Bole" fame had allegedly hanged herself inside her room at her residence in Parnashree.
 
 Four cases of suicide with depression resulting from friction in emotional space being one of the major causes has got the industry thinking. Why is depression leading to such fatal outcomes in recent times in an industry where everyone is compelled to portraying a perpetual "all izz well" image? After all, all shootings there seem like picnics, everyone is a friend or family and life is always a joyride. At least, any interview with a star always projects such an impression. However, the real lives of reel stars are often far from being picture perfect. Job insecurities are high and the real problem often is the increasing gap between aspiration and reality. It is common for stars having to put up a façade irrespective of the secret emotional tsunami that they have to negotiate every other day. Fragile relationships add to the vulnerability. Yet, the world that worships its idols must never see the stars licking their wounds. So, slit wrists resulting from heartbreaks have to be hidden under layers of makeup. Umpteen number of "happy and happening selfies" have to be posted even when one has reached the nadir of despair.
 
 Actor Arunima Ghosh, who had suffered from emotional trauma post a heartbreak, insists that depression is on the rise in Tollywood. Recounting those days of depression, she said, "I had become numb and would stay awake all through the night. I had no friends and gave up all my work assignments. My father is a doctor and I bounced back because of my family's support. Those suffering from depression out of heartbreaks need to be told that one breakup isn't the end of the world," she said.
 
 Unfortunately, that's not happening. Leftover carcases of emotional trauma are closely guarded secrets of many depressed actors who don't have trustworthy friends to share their scars. "Most of them stay alone and don't have their families to fall back on when the going gets tough. They return to empty houses at night and have no one to counsel or comfort them," Arunima said.
 
 Even today, if she stays for long in the washroom, her mother goes to check on her. "But when a depressed person is living all by herself, there is no such scope for anyone to provide the much-needed shoulder to lean on. Bitasta's Facebook posts reveal how depressed she was. I wish someone was there to help her heal," Arunima pointed out.
 
 The imbalance between what can be achieved, what is achieved and what is aspired for is another huge concern. Most of the newcomers are extremely ambitious. They are hungry for success at a quick pace. They might often get a role but there is no guarantee that it will be followed up by other offers. Depression sets in when assignments don't come at regular intervals. What's worse is the way some acting schools mushrooming in and around the city are selling dreams to gullible wannabes. The newcomers enrol into such acting schools with the hope that a red carpet will be assured to them once they complete the course. Casting, they are made to believe, is guaranteed. But life gets very difficult once they smell the coffee after passing out of such schools. Living up to their parents' and own ambitions of being an actor with multiple plum projects in their kitty is difficult. An uncertain future provides no balm to their despondency.
 
 According to consultant psychiatrist Dr Rima Mukherjee, the new generation of stars have often not learnt to handle failures. "They come with high ambitions and want to portray a larger than life image," she said. Added to job insecurity is the competition to hit the headline frequently, be the talking point on social media, deliver hits in an industry that is seeing box office droughts and pressure of being seen at every important dos in the city. Being present at every party means having to afford a new dress all the time because the thumb rule for such attendances is that an actor can't be seen repeating a dress twice over. Life only gets harder if work doesn't trickle in and the pressure to network carries a baggage of such expenses.
 
 Name and fame become addictive and many newcomers are known to go to any extent just to ensure their visibility. "Some actors are so desperate that they themselves get hold of financers for producers to announce a movie for them," said a producer on conditions of anonymity.
 
 In the television industry, depression results from stars clocking insane hours at work doing megaserials. "They return very late and leave early. This leaves them with absolutely no time for family. The depressed can't talk about it because of a taboo. They fear that revealing this might turn them into outcasts," said actor Arindam Ganguly, secretary of West Bengal Motion Pictures Artistes' Forum.
 
 According to actor Locket Chatterjee, at least 60% of actors around her suffer from depression. "There are too many people with too less work. Earlier, I used to earn Rs 4 lakh- Rs 5 lakh a month. In the film, television and show industry, I am now completely out of work. Politics is an uncertain field. Had I not set my priorities in life differently, I would have easily succumbed to depression now. I know, many would have done that but wouldn't have talked about it," Chatterjee said.
 
 Throwing caution to the wind, Bollywood star Deepika Padukone had famously spoken about her depression. Back in Kolkata, Mir is perhaps the only actor to have spoken out openly about seeking the help of Dr Rima Mukherjee to address his depression issue. But according to Mukherjee, too few actors are reaching out to psychiatrists for help. Confidentiality, she said, is an issue. Even if they come during a crisis, they discontinue once that is addressed. The bigger problem is perhaps the lack of assurance that speaking about depression will not make them more redundant in this industry. With four recent suicide cases, perhaps it is about time to do away with the taboo. After all, living in denial and suffering in silence are not doing any good to anyone in the industry and beyond.
 
 
