LUCKNOW: A show of bonhomie among their top leaders notwithstanding, the cadre and ticet-seekers in   and   are confused over the seat-sharing arrangement in the  . When TOI took a close look at a clutch of seats going to polls in the third phase of UP elections on February 19, it turned out candidates from both the parties have filed their nomintion papers in at least eight assembly constituencies despite a formal announement of candidature by one or the other. The last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is February 3. 

 The confusion is especially acute in the urban pockets of Kanpur and Lucknow. In Kanpur’s Govindnagar constituency, SP’s Yogendra Kushwaha has filed his nomination despite Congress declaring Ambuj Shukla as its nominee, while in Arya Nagar, INC’s Pramod Jaiswal has filed his papers even though SP declared Amitabh Bajpai as its’s candidate. In Kidwai Nagar, Congress MLA Ajay Kapoor was in for a shock when SP’s Om Prakash Mishra turned up to file his nomination, while Congress’s Sohil Akhtar Ansari’s candidature has been challenged by SP’s Mohd Hasan Roomi on the Kanpur Cantonment seat.
 
 Even though Congress had not included Kanpur’s Maharajpur constituency in its first and second lists, the seat made a retrospective entry on the third list on Thursday, well after the last date for nominations, but just in time for withdrawing candidature. It has accommodated, in the process, Congress’s former Akbarpur MP Rajaram Pal. SP’s Aruna Tomar, however, has also filed her nomination from this seat. 
 
 The deepest crisis, however, has surfaced in assembly seats in Lucknow. Even though there was no formal declaration of candidature by the Congress, known Akhilesh Yadav aide Anurag Bhadauria filed his nomination on a Congress symbol from Lucknow East, and its nominees Abdul Maroof Khan, Naresh Balmiki, and Harshvardhan Shyam were asked to file their nominations from Lucknow Central and Mohanlalganj, respectively. 
 
 The last-minute confusion was so intense that Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Raj Babbar first directed Balmiki, and then Shyam to file their candidature from Mohanlalganj. With 3pm on January 31 the deadline for filing nominations, Shyam’s candidature, with an incomplete set, was rejected by the returning officer. When TOI spoke to Balmiki, he said, “I was asked by the Azad ji and Babbar ji to give an undertaking that I am withdrawing my candidature in favour of Shyam. Now, I came to know his candidature has been rejected. I’m just a worker and I don’t know whether I am expected to contest or not. I will wait for directions and do what I am told to do.” 
 
 SP’s Ambrish Singh Pushkar, in the meantime, has also filed his nomination from the Mohanlalhganj seat. 
 
 Confusion also prevailed in Barabanki’s Zaidpur assembly constituency as well where Congress’s Rajya Sabha member PL Punia’s son Tanuj filed his nomination even though he wasn’t named as a Congress nominee. The reserved seat has been allocated to SP’s Ram Gopal, who had won in 2012 assembly polls.
 
