PATNA: Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday demanded a probe into the purchase of soil by the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, or Patna zoo, from a firm associated with environment and forest minister   Yadav.

 “A mall near Saguna Mor is being constructed by Meridian Construction (India) Ltd, a company owned by RJD’s Sursand (Sitamarhi) MLA Syed Abu Dojana. The plot was dug up to create underground space, and the soil thus generated was purchased by the Patna zoo for Rs 90 lakh,” the BJP functionary alleged, adding tenders were not floated for the deal.
 
 Modi said the two acres land on which the mall is coming up is owned by Delight Marketing Company Pvt Ltd. Deputy CM   Prasad Yadav and his brother Tej are on the board of directors of Delight, Modi said.
 
 Modi, who is the leader of opposition in the legislative council, recalled JD (U) minister Lalan Singh during the NDA government in Bihar in 2008 had accused the then minister for railways, Lalu Prasad, of selling the railways’ two hotels at Ranchi and Puri to the Sujata Hotel Private Limited at throwaway prices.
 
 “It was Sujata’s director Harsh Kochar who transferred the two acres of land at Saguna Mor to Delight as part of thanksgiving exercise. RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP and former   minister Prem Chand Gupta’s wife Sarla Gupta held 70% of the shares in Delight at that time. Lalu’s two sons Tejashwi and Tej were made the company’s directors in 2014,” Modi told reporters on the sidelines of his weekly ‘janata darbar’.
 
 Modi alleged the state forest department, headed by Tej Pratap, drafted a bogus beautification scheme for the Patna zoo to facilitate the purchase of soil from the Meridian. “And they did it so brazenly that they didn’t care for even floating tenders,” he added.
 
 According to him, the forest department claimed the soil was used for development of a track inside the zoo. 
 
 “Now the track is over 3ft high and looks like a bund,” he said, wondering if the track really needed to be elevated.
 
 “Can a minister purchase soil for his department from his personal land, and that too without floating tender? It’s an obvious case of conflict of interest,” the opposition leader said and urged CM Nitish Kumar to sack Tej and ensure a fair probe into the matter.
 
 Will sue BJP leader: Tej Pratap: Bihar forest minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Tuesday evening tweeted he would file a defamation case against BJP MLC Sushil Kumar Modi for defaming him and his family. 
 
 He was reacting to Modi’s allegation that the Patna zoo purchased soil for Rs 90 lakh from a firm associated with the minister.
 
 Tej’s party RJD termed Modi’s allegation as fabricated. “Our party MLA Syed Abu Dojana will also soon sue Modi for defamation,” RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari told TOI, claiming the zoo followed the due procedure while purchasing the soil.
 
 Patna zoo director   said the firm, which supplied the soil, was empanelled with the zoo. “We followed the procedures. Also, only Rs 19 lakh was spent on the soil purchase,” the zoo official told this newspaper.
 
