NEW DELHI: On  , students’ collective  , which is known for fighting for the rights of girl students, protested against the recent “hormonal outburst” remark by Union women and child development minister  .

 Pinjra Tod members said that “this is not a day for commemorative celebrations but to fight and take back our rights.”
 
 Maneka Gandhi had given the comment when asked about hostel timings for girl students. Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita said, “Maybe she is under pressure from how women have started fighting back in universities across India. What she said is in contravention to what HRD ministry and UGC have said about curfew timings,” said the DU student.
 
 The students tried entering Shastri Bhavan, which houses the WCD ministry, but were stopped by the security. Sabiqa Naqvi, a member of the students’ collective, said, “She in a position to bring about substantial change, but she instead makes such statements.”
 
 “She probably gave the comment probably because the concept of women breaking away and thinking about their rights does not fall within her government’s idea of culture,” Naqvi added.
 
 The group members had earlier protested against UGC for its “inability to strictly implement the 2015 regulations on the prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment of women employees and students in higher educational institutes.”
 
 The protest started after the demand of the students that UGC officials come out and accept their memorandum was not met.
 
 For many months, the students’ collective has been demanding implementing of the UGC circular issued in May 2016, which includes constitution of an internal complaints committee (ICC) against sexual harassment with elected student representatives and dissemination of information on sexual harassment and redressal mechanism.
 
 The group demanded quick implementation of gender sensitive infrastructure, counselling of staff members, abolition of discriminatory rules restricting mobility of women students and construction of women’s hostels on a priority. 
 
