CHENNAI: Top companies like Google and Facebook believe that constant engagement, experimentation and creativity in a workplace motivates employees towards success. The otherwise monotone-loving Indian Railways coach production unit, the Integral Coach Factory in Perambur Chennai has implemented a similar philosophy for hundreds of its shop-floor workers, by having artists cover the 20-feet walls inside the factory with colourful graffiti. Associated with dull colours and a basic functional space, the facility’s newly-painted walls now give off a vibrant vibe. 

 “The administration thought that paintings would not only beautify the area but also motivate the labourers and give them a break from the monotony of work,” said a senior   official.
 
 In the furnishing factory, where the seats, fans and other furnishings are added into a coach shell, on the New Avadi Road, walls are smeared with striking mix of red, yellow, green and blue. It’s not just random art, there is a method to the madness — as the paintings on the wall are inspired by grease stained hands on the floor. The heavy duty work of the men at work — lifting, drilling, welding — are replicated on the larger canvas. From their safety gear like the colour of gloves, boots and safety harness and the equipment the paintings are a reflection of their daily routine. “The wall art is a way of engaging with the workers and sensitising them to safety; art is a stronger way of sending out a message as compared to seminars or pamphlets or plain instructions,” said another ICF official, in-charge of the shop-floor activities. 
 
 The ICF has extended the   culture to all exterior wall spaces within its jurisdiction, including administrative buildings. A refreshing change when one usually associates walls at a shop floor or railway buildings with posters, banners or worse, spots where people spit or relieve themselves. 
 
 The new environment may be to motivate workers to achieve ICF’s dream to compete globally as it is getting ready for an on-track showdown with the world's top coach-makers in the hope that it can provide metro rail companies in the country with the most efficient and cost-effective rakes.The Chennai coach manufacturing unit, owned and operated by the Indian Railways, has approached metro rail companies, including Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL), for a trial order of one prototype rake -coaches that form an entire train -so they may compare its performance against those manufactured by firms like Germany's Bombardier and France's  , whose coaches Indian metro rail companies currently operate.
 
