MARGAO: In a major heist in the intervening night of Tuesday-Wednesday, unidentified burglars effected entry into a   society,   V K S S Society Limited, at  , Paroda, and made off with valuables worth several lakhs of rupees from the bank’s lockers.

 Quepem PI Pravin Gavas, who is investigating into the case, told TOI that 16 safe lockers were targeted by the thieves. “The society has altogether 18 lockers, but only 17 are made available for its customers. Of these, only one was found to be intact, while the rest 16 were found to be broken open – 10 were fully broken open, and the rest six which contained only some documents, were partially opened. The exact value of the valuables stolen will be known only after all the 16 lockers are checked and verified after summoning the locker owners,” Gawas said.
 
 The police have verified only two lockers so far. Of these, while one was found to have contained nothing, the other contained Rs 3.96 lakh which has been robbed. 
 
 The incident is believed to have occurred between 12.30am and 5.30am. The theft came to light when one of the employees entered the locker room at 9.30am following which the police were informed. The society is located on the first floor of the building located just off the Quepem-Margao road. 
 
 Police sources said that the intruders gained entry into the society by climbing up the wall and then entered the locker room through a ventilator. 
 
 “Renovation work of the society premises was underway, and the work of installing CCTVs was also in progress. The CCTVs were to be functional from today,” Gawas said, adding that they have ruled out the involvement of labourers in the theft. 
 
 A sniffer dog squad and fingerprint experts were pressed into service. “Two chance fingerprints have been lifted, and we are working on identifying them. The statements of the employees and their finger prints have been recorded. Investigations are underway,” Gawas said. 
 
 The Quepem police have booked an offence against unknown accused for theft. Police suspect the involvement of at least 3-4 people in the crime.
 
