Gurgaon: Residents of   are fed up with the persistent sewage problem, that they are facing for the past one month. Residents said there was no solution even after they took up the matter with the  .

 Residents said   was getting accumulated in front of the residential plots and was giving away stench, thus becoming a potential health hazard.
 
 “Today is the 34th day since we have been facing this problem,” said Col Omed Singh, president of Sector 21 RWA. “The problem with this sector lies in its very structure. Sector 21 starts near Dundahera and as it progresses towards where we live, the topography has slope. As a result, whenever it rains, the water is accumulated near our homes. Plus, the sewage too starts concentrating here.”
 
 Singh said there are two nullas that flow through Sector 21. “There is one open nulla here, then there is one coming from   near  ,” he explained.
 
 “There is also a 28 acre vacant Huda land in our vicinity. The land is embroiled in a court case and until the case is resolved, no construction should have ideally been allowed on the plot. But look what’s happening, sprawling residential plots are coming up whose drains are again directed towards us. All these drains together aggravate the sewage issue in our area,” said Col Singh
 
 Another resident, Bharat Kumar, said the sewage lines in Sector 21 are only eight inches wide. “Yet it has to carry sewage coming from all three different pipes. These lines are fully clogged and as result it leaks out and pools right outside the street, therefore we see this mess,” he said.
 
 There are many residents living in colonies near Bijwasan Road and Ayyapa Mandir pocket, who are receiving water mixed with sewage. “Due to the sewage blockage, the waste has mixed with water lines meant to supply drinking water. I got complaints from residents saying they receive contaminated water which is mixed with sewage,” said Singh.
 
 When contacted SS Rohila, MCG spokesperson, promised swift action. “The area falls under MCG. I will forward the issue to the concerned team and get it done as soon as possible,” he told TOI.
 
 
