MUMBAI: It was a 'bouncer' which   knew was coming the moment he accessed his Twitter account on Sunday morning. Exactly six years after he had to endure the pain of seeing Sri Lanka lose the World Cup final to India despite his classy hundred in front of a raucous and packed Wankhede crowd on April 2, 2011, the former Lanka captain was addressing his first presser as coach of the high-profile   team.

 Sportspersons normally don't like to be reminded of defeats, but the elegant batsman was graceful as ever when asked about the occasion. "I did not even remember it until I accessed my Twitter account this morning. To be part of a World Cup final is always brilliant and to walk out at the Wankhede with 50,000 people screaming gives good memories," Jayawardene said on Sunday. " A lot of things hurt in life. I have lost four (ICC tournament) finals out of five.We learn from every mishap that happens and move on," said the stylish batsman.
 
 Right now, the 39-year-old, who's been a batting consultant to England whenever they've toured Asia, is keyed up to meet the biggest challenge of his nascent coaching career. As a player, Jayawardene has featured in quite a few   matches, playing for Kings XI Punjab, Kochi Tuskers Kerala and  , but the pressure can be quite different when you replace someone like Ricky Ponting as coach of one of the most high-profile teams in the league. Over the years, the MI coaching staff has resembled the who's who of the cricketing world. The likes of   (brand icon), Anil Kumble (mentor),   (fielding coach), Shane Bond (bowling coach), with John Wright (coach and later talent scout), would attract equal attention in the dug-out as players on the field.
 
 For starters, 'Mahela' knows that he can never garner the same media attention as his predecessor Ponting, but he seems cool about that. At the pre-tournament media meet, the soft-spoken islander was happy to let skipper Rohit Sharma take the limelight. "It's my first big role. I have worked as consultant (with England). Coaching is different. I need to step back and give players the freedom to go out and express themselves. We will give them as much ammunition as possible. We have a talented group of players to work with," he said, before recalling how playing against MI was always a "tough challenge," for him.
 
 "I was involved with three different franchises before. Whenever we played against Mumbai it was a big challenge as they had a different DNA in the way they approached the game. It was tough. When IPL started Mumbai had icons. It's a different role for me. I now have to learn the culture and DNA from within," he said.
 
 Having made a 'small' matter of 11,814 runs in 149 Tests, and 12,650 runs in 448 ODIs in an epic career, the Lankan batting great naturally commands a lot of respect from India's star bat and MI skipper Rohit Sharma. "I'm looking forward to working with him. We've seen him over years from the other side, but it's finally good to have him with us. He's been one of the legends of the game. The way he's led his country is amazing. His experience and knowledge about the game is something I'm looking to tap. I'm sure that once we get into the tournament, at any given point, he'll be able to guide us if we see ourselves in trouble," complimented Rohit.
 
 Having been at the receiving end of his IPL captain's record innings of 264 at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata in November 2014, Jayawardene remarked in jest that he was "happy I'm not on the park, especially if it's Kolkata, where he's in full swing." 
 
 
