NEW DELHI: Family members of the 29-year-old man who was shot thrice by three bikers in east Delhi on Friday night have alleged that timely treatment could have saved him.

 “Abhay bhaiya was shot around 9.30pm barely 100 metres from his house in  . He was bleeding profusely from the chest and abdomen. I rushed him to a local nursing home immediately, but they refused to treat him saying it was a critical case,“ alleged Naveen Soni, the tenant and family friend of the victim. “I then took him to Hedgewar and Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospitals, but even they denied him treatment citing unavailability of necessary equipment or specialists,“ he added. He said that doctors at GTB said they didn't have vacant beds with ventilator support.“Helpless, we rushed him to Max hospital in Patparganj, but by then Abhay bhaiya had died,“ Soni said.
 
 Dr Sunil Kumar, medical superintendent of GTB hospital, said that he was unaware of the case. “I have not received any complaint and we will take necessary action if the charges are found true,“ he said. GTB hospital, which has 1,500 beds, has only 50 ventila tors. The MS conceded that demand for ventilator-supported beds often exceeds the supply leading to a crisis.
 
 Police said that the victim,  , had been living with his wife and two children in Kanti Nagar since 2006.They were to leave for their ancestral village in Bhagalpur, Bihar on Saturday . “The family has left for home, but with Kumar's body ,“ said a relative.
 
 Kumar's wife, Shweta, said that she was preparing dinner when someone from a nearby CNG kit shop informed her about the incident. When she saw her husband lying in a pool of blood, Shweta lost consciousness and fell down.
 
 Ashok Kumar, the victim's brother-in-law, said, “Everything happened within two hours. We tried our best to save Abhay , but he died because he was denied treatment.“
 
 Police are scanning CCTV footages of the area where the incident took place. Police suspect personal rivalry into the shooting. “The victim owned a television and computer repairing centre in Krishna Nagar.He usually returned to his house at 9.30pm and there are chances that the men recced the place before attacking him. His family members and colleagues are being questioned to know if he had enmity with anyone,“ said a police officer.
 
