KOLKATA: More than 24 hours after a gang of three armed robbers looted an gold loan agency office and allegedly shot at a woman customer at Khardah in   on Saturday morning, no one has been arrested in this connection yet.

 A section of officers, though, suspect that it was the handiwork of a Bangladeshi gang. According to police sources, a special team of detective wing from   has already launched a hunt in border areas, including the Bongaon-Petrapole border. 
 
 “If any   is involved, they will try to cross the border with the booty. The officers are also searching some areas adjoining the border, particularly the home-stay facilities,” a senior officer of the Barrackpore city police said, adding that they would also discuss the matter with the BSF. They are also probing whether some local criminals were involved. 
 
 The Khardah incident took place within a week of a robbery-cum-shooting at a Sonarpur jewellery shop on the southern fringes of the city. Police probing the Sonarpur heist have already arrested a Bangladeshi. In the Khardah case, the CCTV footage revealed at least two of the three goons were carrying guns.
 
 Police on Sunday said the CCTV footage from the   (IIFL) office shows three men entering soon after it opened around 9.20 am. “Two of the three, in their early 30s, posed as customers and entered the office leaving the third man outside. The footage at 9.23 am shows the duo beating up three employees, including branch finance manager Biswajit Dey, employee Arka Sarkar and security guard Janbox Mondal, holding guns at them. The duo then started looting the vault after putting Dey at gun point,” an officer said. 
 
 In another part of the footage, it was found that one of the goons holding a gun attacked a woman customer as she tried to raise an alarm, police said. 
 
 The 38-year-old homemaker,   who had gone to pay an installment against a gold loan, was allegedly shot at during the attack. Her kin alleged the bullet struck her on the right side of head. Police, however, said X-ray and CT scan reports show there’s no bullet lodged in her head.
 
 Police said preliminary probe suggested that cash and jewellery of more than Rs 1.80 crore was looted. “The probe is in a preliminary stage. We are looking into all aspects. The CCTV footage is not sufficient to identify the culprits,” said Subrata Mitra, police commissioner, Barrackpore. 
 
 
