NEW DELHI: Fragmented and without a coherent strategy at the moment, the opposition must construct its own narrative rather than obsess about how to stop the  , say social scientists and political commentators.

 The opposition is splintered and has no idea how to fight the BJP, said political scientist  . “Unlike the BJP, which is able to revise and recast its strategy in each election, the opposition seems to be waiting for a natural erosion of its main rival.
 
 Unless the parties involved develop a sharper ideological thrust and its leaders keep personal egos aside, they are unlikely to make any electoral impact,” he said.
 
 In the UP polls, the BJP and its allies romped home with 325 seats out of 403. BJP alone bagged 312 seats and polled 39.7% votes. In contrast, the main opposition parties — SP,   and   — mustered a combined 50.2% votes though it fetched them only 73 seats (SP: 47, BSP: 19, Cong: 7). 
 
 Dalit political commentator Chandrabhan Prasad said a grand alliance of SP, BSP, Congress, RLD and the Communist parties is need-ed to counter the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. “But even if they don’t join hands, BJP’s aggression will push many of those who voted for them into the other side,” he said. 
 
 Prasad recounted what a friend from east Uttar Pradesh narrated to him a few days back to illustrate his point. “He said that those celebrating the BJP victory were blowing the shankh (conch). As you know, the conch has traditionally been a victory symbol indicating brahminical hegemony. My friend was worried whether the old days would be back,” Prasad said. 
 
 Social scientist   said that the opposition must think of something more than just how to stop BJP. “That should be a byproduct, not your main goal. If you are only thinking of how to stop the BJP, you cannot do anything positive. You must put forward something of your own,” he said. 
 
 Gupta felt that it is difficult for SP and BSP to come together. One might recall that the roots of BSP-SP animosity goes back to 1995 when BSP supremo   was attacked allegedly by   workers in a Lucknow guesthouse. “SP is identified with   and the Yadavs. Yadavs have been the main perpetrators of violence against Scheduled Castes. It is unlikely that Mayawati will gain any advantage by aligning with the SP,” he said. 
 
 Gupta also said that one must dissect every election in its context. “Elections results are looked at and analysed as a victor’s story. We don’t pay attention to those who lost: how they lost and in what context they lost. After all, the same Modi lost in Bihar and won in UP,” he said.
 
