LUCKNOW: For this  , it was not a happy   after 20 years. For before they reach their village, they   to   and this doesn't go down well with their mom. 

 In a meme of a popular Hindi film, prepared by Panchayati Raj department to dissuade people from open defecation, the mother, who was desperately seeking her sons till a few minutes back chanting relentlessly 'mere Karan Arjun aayenge', shuns the two when she sees them defecating in the open.
 
 "Chhi....chhi......Was it to see this that I waited for you two all these years," chides the mother. Disappointed, one of the sons asks, "Humse kya bhool ho gayi ma, ki bees saal baad bhi humein gale nahin lagaogi (what wrong have we do to make you not want to embrace us even after 20 long years)." The woman says, "Khule mein shauch karte ho aur poochhte ho kya bhool ho gayi? (You defecate in the open but don't know what wrong you have done)". Her sons say they sat in the open as they were not sure their home would have a toilet. 
 
 The meme shows the mother convincing her sons that if she, being old and all by herself, could get a toilet constructed in the house, why can't they. "It's not difficult to get a toilet made by spending Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000," says the mother. The two sons pledge to use the toilet like their mother. The five-minute meme makes a public connect with the actors mimicking the super stars who acted in the original film. 
 
 "The videos are shown to villagers in meetings by master trainers and now, even villagers are making such videos," said state consultant, Swachh Bharat Mission, Panchayat Raj department, UP, Sanjay Singh Chauhan. 
 
 Some of these videos like the one showing cat defecating in the garden are real and shows a cat covering its waste with mud knowing by instinct that open defecation is not safe. 'It's high time humans learn too,' is the message. The videos are among the tools for Community-led Total Sanitation programme of the department, telling people not to defecate in the open.
 
