Madurai: A 54-year-old woman from Chennai, who went missing in Madurai over a month ago, was found to have been murdered allegedly by her son-in-law and his friends. 

 The body of M Jothi, buried on a private land on the outskirts of the city, was exhumed in the presence of revenue officials on Monday.
 
 The murder came to light after the city police recently received a woman missing complaint from her son, based on which they started an investigation. Jothi’s daughter Sharmila had fallen in love with A Selvin, 33, from Mudakkathan in Madurai and got married to him a few years ago. 
 
 Police said Jothi’s parents were affluent with properties both in Chennai and Madurai. They suspect that the woman could have been murdered due to a property dispute. 
 
 According to the police sources, Jothi went missing on July 31 from a hospital in Madurai where she was undergoing treatment. She came here since her daughter Sharmila could take care of her. Jothi’s son Harish from Chennai approached the police after she mysteriously went missing and all efforts to contact her went in vain. Karimedu police registered the woman missing complaint on August 19 and began searching for her.
 
 Investigations revealed that the woman was taken from the hospital by none other than her son-in-law Selvin. With the police looking out for him, he recently surrendered before a court in Chennai. 
 
 Karimedu police got him in custody four days ago and grilled him. While he managed to misguide and take the police on a different course initially, he spilled the beans later. Based on the information he gave, a police team went to a private plot near Pulloothu on Monday and recovered the body. 
 
 As it was already decomposed, a postmortem was carried out in a nearby crematorium. The police also arrested Selvin’s friends K Arun Pandi, 23, from Arapalayam and I Kadher Sherif, 28 from Ponmeni whose role was under investigation. 
 
 Further investigation was under way to determine whether it was a planned murder or was she killed during a dispute. It came to light that Selvin had a tiff with Jothi as she was playing spoilsport in his getting a share of their property.
 
 
