PATNA: An estimated 1,500 idols were immersed into the Ganga in different parts of urban Patna, and almost 90% of these idols were made of synthetic materials and toxic paints which must have further polluted the already polluted river. 

 Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal admitted that though the administration had called upon the puja organisers to opt for eco-friendly idols, only 10% of the idols in the state capital were made eco friendly.
 
 “That’s why we have decided to award the best three idols this year only from among the eco-friendly ones. The awards will be announced soon,” Agarwal said, hoping the trend of eco-friendly idols would increase in future.
 
 Environmentalist Ashok Ghosh also cautioned against the use of synthetic materials in making idols as they adversely impact the quality of water when immersed into it.
 
 “Idols earlier used to be made of clay, straw and natural colour like turmeric. Now, the artisans use plaster of Paris (PoP) as it makes the exercise easier and also the idol dries up faster,” he said.
 
 Organic puja materials like flowers, which are also immersed into the river, increase the bacterial concentration in water. “People should dispose of such materials in the pit. I know most of us believe in immersing puja materials into a river, but we forget the harm we are causing to the river,” he said.
 
 Ghosh also lamented the increasing violation of environmental laws. “With each passing day, the rulebook on environment is becoming thicker, but its implementation is poor,” he said.
 
 According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s guidelines on idol immersion, puja articles like flowers, clothes and decoration papers and plastic items should be removed from the idols before their immersion. Such items may be collected separately for further processing.
 
 Within 24 hours of the immersion of idols, the guidelines say, the leftover material near the water bodies should be collected and disposed of. 
 
 These guidelines are, however, hardly followed.
 
 
