Chennai: A passenger falling off a train due to his/her own negligence is still entitled to compensation from the railways.

 Underlining the legal principle established by the Supreme Court, according to which, “...the liability of   is strict, and even if it were to be assumed that a passenger fell down from train because of his own negligence, it will have no effect on compensation payable…” the Railways Claims Tribunal here has awarded Rs 8 lakh compensation to a passenger whose leg had to be amputated after he fell from an overcrowded compartment.
 
 In his complaint, A Mohammed Thahir of Avadi said on April 27, 2014, he bought an unreserved ticket and boarded the Rameswaram-Chennai Express at Paramakudi. Because the coach was crowded , he travelled on the footboard. As the train was crossing a railway gate, he fell off the coach. He was admitted with grievous injuries to a government hospital where doctors amputated his left leg beyond the knee and right foot. He was later shifted to a private multi-specialty hospital and discharged on May, 7.
 
 Thahir then moved the Railway Claims Tribunal in Chennai, seeking compensation, saying he was unable to get employment because of the amputation. Before the accident, he had been a bearer at a city hotel. Thahir was also suffering from depression and taking medication as his father, a cook, could not afford his education. In his cross-examination, he said the   was not related his mental ailment and he lost his purse containing the Rs 150 ticket while being taken to hospital on an ambulance.
 
 His counsel V S Suresh said the railways report denied compensation blaming Thahir for travelling on the footboard. The report contravened relevant provisions of the Railway Accidents and Untoward Incidents (Compensation) Rules, 1990, amended in December 2016, he said. According to rules, Thahir was entitled to a compensation of Rs 8 lakh, said Suresh.
 
 Denying the arguments, Southern Railway said Thahir travelled on the footboard despite being warned by the railway police. The accident occurred due his negligence and he was not entitled to compensation, it said.
 
 A bench of judicial member Mukesh Kumar Gupta and technical member S Mohan said according to the railway investigation report, travelling on footboard was a negligent act, punishable under the Railway Act, 1989. But the railways did not claim Thahir was not a bonafide passenger, nor was the argument pertaining to negligence in consonance with the apex court’s precedent. Agreeing with counsel’s arguments, the bench said Thahir was entitled to Rs 8 lakh as compensation under the amended rules.
 
 
