The idea of racing with powerful 3000 cc engine-laden beasts on treacherous terrains of a rainforest amid adverse monsoon showers may not seem like a good idea for even the most valiant of drivers, but for a few Hyderabadis, it’s an adrenaline rush they long to surrender to. 
Meet the enthusiastic off-road racers from the city, who swear by words like muddy creeks, slippery trails and insidious hill climbs, and when behind the wheels, they make sure to give tough competition to even the most experienced of off-roaders. 
 Gearing up to participate in the upcoming week-long   (RFC) starting from July 22 in Goa,   (co-driver T Laxmikanth Reddy), Dr. Chaitanya Challa (co-driver Shabarish Jagarapu),   (co-driver Rohit Conyers),   (co-driver C. Dhanraj Reddy),   (co-driver Karthik Varma) and Jithender Nath A 
 (co-driver Pradeep Kumar) will represent Hyderabad in the esteemed championship this year. Touted as the toughest off-road motorsport event in the country, the participants have been prepping their vehicles for years to challenge the off-road tracks of the Western Ghats. “It’s all about the coordination between man and his machine,” says Prabhu.
 
 
 
 Though the sport is still at a nascent stage in Hyderabad and the city doesn’t host any of the top notch races, these Hyderabadis are confident that they will put up a good show. How? “I have been 
 practising on tracks in Shameerpet. They are private properties but good for practise. Hyderabad’s geographical demography, with the rocky terrains, is pretty good for off-roading. And thanks to the rain, the practise sessions have been very close to what we are about to experience in the rainforests of Goa,” says Prabhu.
 Abhinav Reddy, who has been participating in RFC for the past six years and has won the ‘General Man’ award twice in the last two years, says the city has practise tracks, which during incessant rain, become even more difficult to drive on than race tracks. “We usually practice on tracks at Toopran. The terrain has lakes; it’s hilly and during rain, it is akin to rainforest tracks. All the teams from the city, which participate in the world-class races like the RFC, practise in Toopran,” he says, adding that RFC organisers look out for participants from Hyderabad as they are known to give tough competition to other racers. 
 For 65-year-old Jithender Nath, the oldest participant of this year’s race, Hyderabad and Bhopal are the two hubs for off-road racing in the country. “Recreational off-road drives have been a tradition in Hyderabad since the time of the Nizams. They used to go for hunts and those expeditions were nothing less than today's off-road races,” he says.
 
 
 
 For recreational off-roading experience, one can take out a regular 4x4 vehicle, but when it comes to off-road competitive events, it’s a different ball game altogether and requires a lot of effort, money and technical know-how, say the participants. More than the driver, they say, it’s the machine that can earn one the title. “I have been preparing my vehicle for the past six years. Every time you participate in off-road events, you get to learn a lot about your machine and what you need to be a winner. This is going to be my second time in the competition and I can’t wait to steer my wheels on the muddy terrains of Western Ghats’ rainforest,” says an excited Vengala, who is taking a 3.1 turbo diesel engine-laden 4.4 to the competition.
 Devineni, who will be participating in the race for the first time, says a lot of research and development goes behind preparing a vehicle for an event of such international repute. “I visited RFC last year and did a lot of research on the terrain and what all I will be needing to put up a good show. My team is ready with the vehicle and I hope, irrespective of winning or losing, it will be a learning experience to compete against some of the best drivers from around the world,” he says. 
 Highlighting the contribution of co-drivers, Dr Challa, who has been participating in the event for the last two years, says, “An off-road vehicle requires two drivers. More than the one behind the wheels, it’s the co-driver who does most of the work. Be it accessing the terrain, working with the vehicle if it gets stuck on the way or knowing the vehicle in and out, he does half of the hard work. It’s ironic that at the end of the race, it’s the guy behind the wheels who gets to enjoy all the limelight. Actually, it should be the other way around.”
 
 
 
 For the fourth edition of the RFC this year, the organisers have tweaked the format of the race a little to add more excitement. For one, they are planning to throw new challenges at the racers and have introduced night races. “Last year, there was hardly any rain during the race week. But this time, I hope we get ample rain since it makes the race more exciting and tests the endurance of both the vehicle and the men driving them. I didn’t know they are introducing night races this year. It would be treacherous to go off-road during the night in the rains, but exciting for sure,” says Prabhu.
 Dr Challas says he is prepared for any challenge the race is planning to throw at him. “I have tasted success the last two times I took part. And as far as night race is concerned, my vehicle is prepared for it; it’s well lit. Though I had little time for that — about a month — I am pretty sure how things would turn out for my team,” says Dr Challa, who secured the first place in the ‘3000CC And Above’ category in 2015 and came 
 second last year in the same group. 
 
