BENGALURU: At the ripe age of 77, Faiyaz Husain continues to be the sole breadwinner of his family. He has a unique talent that unfortunately is not appreciated by his own family. He is able to transform a piece of paper into a woodland scene with animals and plants using just one tool - a pair of scissors. 

  "In my prime, I was invited for paper-cutting demonstrations in art schools. An article about my work was even published in a newspaper. People used to marvel at my work, but praise doesn't feed empty stomachs," said Husain, who had travelled to Mumbai at the age of 19, albeit unsuccessfully, in search of greener pastures. 
 
  What began as a harmless classroom distraction became a serious vocation for 13-year-old Husain, who dropped out of school in  , where he grew up, to pursue his passion. But there weren't many takers for his craft. "I would spend hours cutting intricate shapes out of paper I found in the classroom with my father's shaving scissors. My father beat me a lot when I gave up studies, but I thought I would be successful. Sadly, the dream didn't materialize. I had to take to garland-making to survive," rues the resident of Kurubarahalli, west Bengaluru. 
 
  His attempts at earning acclaim in Mumbai came to nought when people in the industry called him "too young" despite his successful exhibition at  . At present, he makes money mainly through flea markets and craft exhibitions at the Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath, but that is not enough. His cousin,  , has been helping him expand his business. 
 
  "We are trying to sell his art to people in other cities as it is not recognized in Bengaluru. He takes two or three days to complete one of his larger works and people buy it for a few hundred rupees. They adorn it with a fancy frame and sell it for higher prices. None of his kids cared to learn his skill," said Syed, a former government school headmaster. 
 
  Today, Husain lives in a 10 ft x15 ft apartment with wife Sharfunnisa and a 25-year-old son. Nine of his 10 children don't assist the family financially or visit them. Any income earned is sporadic and insufficient. "The neighbour's kids often ask me to make paper horses and elephants. I happily oblige. They are my only clients," says Husain, who can create any animal from paper in less than three minutes. 
 
