KHELAKHONG (  WEST): It's an overcast afternoon. But there's no rain.Deep in the valley's rural interior that straddles the Thoubal and   constituencies, the paths winding past Rohu-rich fish farms on one side and barren fields on the other are no more than a cycle track. It's symbolic, for they seem impossible for the Congress and BJP election bandwagons to access in this high-stakes Manipur polls. But they're perfect for a solitary figure on a bicycle kicking up a little dust.

 Irom Sharmila's team calls it `unstructured campaigning' -a good play on words. Design or not, her new party , too, the Peoples Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA), spells out into `praja' or public, in the fashion of the Aam Aadmi Party -a philosophy Sharmila can owe her party's spiritual existence to. Arvind Kejriwal's recent Rs 50,000 donation to her party carries financial weight and a psychological push.
 
 Much like Kejriwal's Varanasi candidature challenging Narendra Modi in 2014, Sharmila chose Manipur's toughest seat to cut her teeth in electoral politics. Thoubal is the stronghold of Ibobi Singh, Manipur's three-term CM. Such is his sway , he doesn't even need to show up to campaign in these parts.With BJP's Bhim Singh, the other heavyweight contesting, locals are laughing off Sharmila's quest.
 
 “CM ka maane kuch hota hai key nahin? (Doesn't it mean a lot to be the CM)“ thunders Syed-Ur-Rehman, asked about Sharmila's decision to challenge Ibobi.Rehman, 42, holds court in the marketplace of Thoubal's Muslim-dominated Moijing village, where one member from each family has been given a job with the police or other depart ments. He minces no words.
 
 “Ginati mein bhi nahin aati hain Sharmila... (Sharmila isn't even the reckoning.)“ What Rehman didn't notice IPUR was another first in Sharmila and PRJA 's scheme. As she ped alled from Moijing to Leishathem in the adjoining Wabagai `kendra', she was joined by fellow candidate Najma Phundreimayum, also on a bicycle. As the women rode together, few realised that Najma is the first Meitei Muslim to fight for an assembly seat.
 
 Yet, Sharmila finds little support, especially among women. Anamika Sa rangtham, who was minding a tiny au tomobile lubricant store on the Imphal Myanmar highway , said, “You know why we laugh at Sharmila? We loved her so much. She shouldn't have called off her fast. She should have seen it to the end.She's lost all our support.“
 
 Anamika was echoing what most locals feel. The person on the streets speak so casually of her called-off fast and their disappointment, it's staggering.
 
 Perhaps her solitary cycling isn't a matter of choice, they really have deserted her, maybe cut her free. “They were possessive of their version of my identity,“ she said in the Capital last year.
 
 A lone voice of support comes from a retired teacher and CPI cadre, Memma Phijam, 68. “Fifteen years is no joke,“ she says. “She tried. Maybe when it didn't work, she chose the best option.When did fighting a poll become such a bad thing? She's still fighting alone...“
 
