It was in 2013 that   was slapped with spot fixing charges and a lifetime ban on playing cricket by the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India), or so we thought. The cricketer claims that he has never received the intimation of such a ban officially on paper! In a bare-all chat, Sreesanth asks why he was never given an official letter about the ban, why he is not allowed to play, now that he has been cleared of all charges, and how he wants to be allowed to start an academy in Kerala.

 
 
 It was only to the media that the BCCI said I have been banned from playing cricket for life. The case was in 2013, but till date I have never received an official letter from the BCCI saying I am banned. All I received was a suspension letter, which is for 90 days, according to law. No district cricket association, tournament or club has received a signed letter from the BCCI saying I should not be allowed to play.
 
  No one can stop me from playing the league match on the 19th. I also tweeted that I will be playing the match. It was the responsibility of the Ernakulam Cricket Club to write a letter to BCCI on my behalf but they didn’t do it. I myself wrote a letter to the Club secretary asking for permission to play in the match which they forwarded to the BCCI. The BCCI official N P Sreedhar replied only to the Kerala Cricket Association secretary Jayesh and the Club saying that I should be banned from playing. All that they showed as proof was a copy of my suspension letter. Of what validity is a suspension letter from 2013 now?
 
  I’m going on the ground on the 19th. If the umpire gives me the official letter stating the ban, I will be more than happy. I can then go to the court and file a case.
 
 
 
 I had asked for an NOC letter last month from the BCCI to play in Scotland but I didn’t get it. All I got was a one line rude reply saying this player cannot be given an NOC. IPL is club cricket. Why can’t I play in a different country, even if they find me guilty here? There has been no ban by an international cricket council on me, they’re only respecting the ban of the BCCI.
 
  The court has acquitted me of all charges, I’m completely clean now, but still they’re treating me like a criminal. They’ve taken away my livelihood. I can do films and politics after 45. I’m a cricketer, I want my respect back. When my kids grow up I don’t want to be a criminal in front of them.
  Also, I want to know the exact reason why the rule is different for me and other people. The Lodha committee has found 13 cricketers as accused. It was the BCCI which asked the Lodha committee not to make the names public saying it will affect cricket. My name was not in the Lodha committee but why was it not protected when I was accused?
 
  I went to Tihar jail, my family and friends were affected. Kerala cricket got affected. It’s not that I want the 13 names out as I know what a player and his family go through when he is accused.
 
 I don’t want to take names since these are all players I have once played with or against, but a Pakistani player who was found guilty while playing an international game is a star now. Be it Mohammed Asif or Salman Bhat — they are playing club cricket in Pakistan. Lots of players from across the globe got banned only for two or three years, but Sreesanth got banned for life.
 
 
 
 I’m taking a chance here, I’m 34 and I just have six years of good cricket ahead of me. My club team is really strong and I want to perform there and then get into the Ranji Trophy. I have been bowling every day, clocking 130. I don’t want to rest.
  The BCCI has to give me an answer. They can’t hide behind the walls anymore. Even criminals get acquitted after a while and get on with their lives. I have played for India and has been Man of the Match but still I get treated like an offender. I went through the toughest days of my life when I was 29-30. My dad got two heart attacks during that time period. My entire family went into depression and my niece couldn’t go to school for long. Nobody can give me all that back.
 
  But I didn’t run away, I stayed in Kerala and worked hard. I have decided that I will give my best to the game and I have been practising religiously. My club is supporting me too but the higher ups are not responding to my requests.
 I used to prove myself on the ground but now I don’t get a chance for that either. Everything is under the BCCI so I had to practice on my own ground. I’m not asking for sympathy but for my right to play cricket, to get back my livelihood and my respect. I want to start my academy in Kerala and pass on the knowledge that legends have passed on to me. I’m not asking to play for the country, I’m just asking to lift the ban on me so I can play for my Kerala team, my club team and improve cricket in Kerala. 
 
 
