JAISALMER: The   had planted 22 lakh   along the canal to avoid   in Jaisalmer, but the Indira Gandhi canal department is not providing water due to which plants worth lakhs of rupees are on the verge of getting damaged. To strengthen the banks of canal in Ramgarh and Mohangarh canal area in Jaisalmer district, the forest department had launched plantation campaign, but due to lack of water, the plants are dying.

 The forest department said every day there is need for 42.5 cusec water but the Indira Gandhi canal department refused to give water as there is little water coming in the canal, even farmers have not been getting enough water for irrigation. In this tug of war between both the departments, it is the plants that are suffering.
 
 If forest department officers are to be believed the canal department told them that their demand for water is not in regulation. Also there is very little water coming into the canal due to which even the farmers are not getting full benefit for irrigation. Under such circumstances how can the forest department get water, said the canal authorities.
 
 Sudeep Kaur, deputy conservator of forests, said that as per the circular, the canal department is bound to supply water, but now for quite some time, the department has not done so. The matter has been put before senior officers and ministers, but to no avail.
 
 Kaur said if the canal department does not provide water as per the demand then lakhs of saplings will die for want of water in Mohangarh and Ramgarh area. This year, 22 lakh saplings were planted in surrounding areas of   (IGNP) stage II. Initially, when the saplings were planted, the canal released water, but due to lack of rain, now there is not water for the plants.
 
 K L Jakhar, additional chief engineer at IGNP said, “Water is released in the canal on priority basis and in such a situation water cannot be given. At present there is very little water in the canals and the priority is for drinking water projects and farmers. We cannot supply water if the rules don’t say so. If the forest department wants water then it should send a proposal. It is only after this that the decision at senior level will be taken.
 
 
