HYDERABAD: In another big catch, excise sleuths have arrested a Dutch  ,  , for peddling drugs in the city.The sleuths recovered 2.6 gms of DMT (Dimethyltryptamine), a psychedelic substance, from his possession.

 Mike, a solutions architect with US' San Francisco Bay-based company Innominds, was arrested by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) sleuths of the excise department from his flat at Nanakramguda, where he has been living with his Indian wife and a child, on Tuesday night.
 
 Police got initial leads about Mike while interrogating some of the   from the IT industry. “We folowed the leads provided by some of the techies, who have been purchasing drugs from the 19 arrested peddlers and a few of them mentioned about Mike as a supplier,“ an SIT official said.
 
 After gathering information about Mike's activities in Hyderabad, the SIT sleuths arrested him from Gachibowli area on Tuesday night and seized 2.6 gms of DMT (possession of above 2 gms is considered as commercial quantity, which amounts to peddling), and other narcotics from his possession. When the excise sleuths brought him for interrogation, Mike asked them how difficult a situation he was in.
 
 “He quickly understood that we were thorough in our probe and started enquiring about the gravity of charges that would be brought against him. He wanted to know about the likely punishment,“ the SIT official said.
 
 Based on the information provided by Mike, the excise sleuths might carry out more raids. Mike Kamminga, who has contacts with drug peddlers in his home country, had been procuring them directly through international couriers and supplying them to known people.
 
 The 33-year-old has visited Hyderabad four times in the recent past and has a valid Indian visa till June 2018. “We have arrested a Holland national, Mike Kamminga, in possession of narcotic substances and he will be produced before court,“ director enforcement, prohibition and excise, Akun Sabharwal said.
 
 The LinkedIn profile of Mike indicates that since 2007, he has some connection with Hyderabad. As a CTOcum-COO of W3 Offshore De velopment Centre (p) Ltd, Hyderabad, between 2007 and 2013, Mike claimed to have been responsible for incorporation of the company in the city.
 
 Mike's another association with Hyderabad is as a partner-cum-CTO of city-based social media marketing firm, 84ideas India, from 2010 to 2013. Mike mentions that his firm had clients from Tollywood.
 
 The SIT sleuths seized incriminating evidence, including a laptop and a cell phone of Mike Kamminga, after his arrest. Mike would be produced before court and remanded in judicial custody. The   would also be informed about his arrest, the officials said.
 
