COIMBATORE: A couple posing as managers of   was arrested for cheating a doctor of 7.75lakh. The couple had offered him insurance and collected Rs7.75lakh from him at his clinic in Saravanampatti. 

 They opened a current account with SBI insurance firm using fake documents and deposited the amount in the account. The doctor became aware that he had been cheated a few days ago and lodged a complaint with the city crime branch (CCB) police who arrested the couple on Sunday.
 
 The arrested couple was identified as S Karthick, 32, a native of Vijayamangalam in Erode district and K Radhika, 31, of Moolapalayam in Erode district. Police said, Karthick had completed MBA and was working in a private insurance firm in Erode. Radhika had pursued Msc (bio-technology) and was working at SBI insurance firm in Erode. Both of them were in love and got married few years ago. The couple have two children. They were dismissed from their jobs for misappropriation of funds.
 
 The couple used fake documents and opened a current account at a corporation bank at Saravanampatti in the name of  . Last June, the couple approached private hospital managing director Dr Marisamy, 60, of Saravanampatti, offering him various insurance plans. They told him that for a 5 lakh investment, he would get 12,000 a month in pension after retirement. He had paid 2.75lakh in his name and invested 5 lakh in his son Dr Srinivasan's name. The couple issued fake insurance policies to the doctor. 
 
 A weeks ago, the doctor approached SBI insurance authorities and came to know that his policies were fake. He lodged a complaint with the police who registered a case against the couple under Sections 120 (b), 465, 467, 471, 420 and 506 (i) of the IPC and arrested the duo on Sunday. They were remanded to judicial custody on Sunday night.
 
 The investigation revealed that Radhika had previously been arrested by Singanallur (crime) police for attempting to cheat private hospital managing director David V Rajan in June 2016. She was released on bail a few weeks ago. 
 
 
