NAGPUR: The   (BOI), which has been at loggerheads with the   over the ‘cheque scam’, has sought two weeks for refunding Rs 32 lakh. Earlier, the bank officials were reluctant to do so while passing the buck on Canara Bank. But after NU threatened to snap its three-decade old ties, they softened the stand.

 NU had earlier taken decision to sever its ties with the bank and its finance officer Raju Hiwase had even moved a proposal in this regard, which was supposed to be put up before Wednesday’s management council meeting. But VC SP Kane informed the members that when the bank sought time the proposal was kept in abeyance.
 
 “If they fail to pay the amount by March 22, we will conduct an emergent meeting of council and brake off ties,” Kane told TOI.
 
 Speaking on NU’s tough stand, he added that they had no other alternative, as Rs 32 lakh were siphoned off from NU’s general funds, part of which comprised fees collected from students. “If they can’t protect these Rs 32 lakh, what’s the guarantee that they would safely keep our other funds,” the VC asked.
 
 Among other decisions, the council cleared NU’s yearly report needed for preparation of its annual budget. “A   meeting would be conducted on March 18 for the purpose,” the VC said.
 
 NU would be notifying four new posts on Thursday, as per the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. Only the nomenclature has been changed for all these posts while the present incumbent would continue to hold them till their term is over. It included director of knowledge resources (formerly librarian), director of exam and evaluation (formerly controller of examinations -- COE, director of students’ development (formerly director of social work), and one more.
 
 The VC shared experiences of orientation workshop on the new law organised by the State Higher and technical education Department in Mumbai on Friday. “We were told to start process of elections and notification would be issued on April 1. However, there is still no clarity on the appointments of four deans, who will be full-fledged officials of the university. I’ve given them suggestions to nominate four deans for first time till regular appoints are made. The government however left it on us to carry forward the implementation. On Thursday, We’ve convened a meeting with all our officials in this regard.”
 
 Kane said government was still in process of drafting common statues for all 11 non-agriculture universities which would take another two weeks or so. “Thursday’s meeting would have faculties in the agenda, as new Act allows only four – science and technology, commerce and management, humanities and inter-disciplinary sciences. We need to squeeze out nine faculties into these four.” 
 
 He informed that NU would soon ink pact for   project which is a digital repository of theses and dissertations submitted to Indian universities, maintained by INFLIBNET Centre of the UGC.
 
 
