COIMBATORE: Households and home makers might soon find some relief as   that skyrocketed as a result of fall in cultivation and inflow to market in the past two weeks have started to drop, thanks to the beginning of the Aadi season. However, prices are high compared to previous Aadi seasons. 

 Farmers say it is in the Tamil month of Aadi they start harvesting the summer crop. As the harvest has commenced and inflow of vegetables to markets has resumed, the prices have dropped.
 
 Tomato prices, which hovered around Rs 90-Rs 95 per kg last week, have dropped to Rs 80 on Tuesday morning. The price of small onions too has come down to Rs 85 per kg from Rs 95-Rs 100 in the past one month. Garlic, which cost Rs 200 per kg two months ago, is now priced at Rs 100 per kg.
 
 “Vegetables such as onions, chillies, tomatoes, and brinjal, among others, are ususally harvested this time of the year. And prices drop as they are easily availabile in markets,” said Diriviyam, a farmer who comes to   in R S Puram. Since farmers anticipate a shortage of labour in the coming days, they have started harvesting whatever is grown. “Several labourers will go on a pilgrimage in Aadi month. The crops, meanwhile, will start rotting after the onset of rain. So, we want to finish harvest as soon as possible,’’ said a farmer.
 
 The prices are, however, still high compared to the previous Aadi months. Farmers say Rs 80 per kg for tomato is very high for this period of the year. Usually, vegetables such as tomato would be sold at throwaway prices during Aadi. This year, the cultivated area was less compared to previous years, due to water shortage. Also, the yield per acre has come down. “On a normal year, the summer harvest will yield 10-20 tonnes of tomato per acre. Because of water shortage and extreme heat, the yield has dropped by 60% this year,” said  , a tomato farmer from Madhampatti.
 
 Farmers said they didn’t expect the prices to drop further, a phenomenon usually witnessed as Aadi progresses. “We have postponed harvest of onion to September after the rains,’’ said Vijaykumar, a farmer, hinting that if at all there was a further price fall it would be after September. However, the cost of green chillies has been steadily increasing over the past one week, from Rs 30-Rs 40 per kg to Rs 88 on Tuesday. “This is because chillies are coming from Mysuru. We are yet to get local stock from Erode, Chettipalayam and Thalavadi,’’ said R Satheesh, a vegetable vendor at  
 
 
