MUMBAI:   desperately wanted   to sign an exclusive business contract for his music magazine Rave and alienate him from his regular band and the rest of the music industry, the deceased pianist’s father, Bengaluru-based paediatrician Dr Thomas Joseph, said on Monday, breaking his silence on the matter.   fell off the media entrepreneur’s 12th floor   on September 9.

 Dr Joseph also said Karan’s mother received   from Rishi Shah’s secretary Vidhi Shah two days after Karan’s demise asking for help and “threatening consequences if help was not given”. The family has forwarded the message to the investigating officer, Inspector Prabhale.
 
 Urging the police to "set aside motivated statements and independently investigate Karan’s death", Dr Joseph in an eight-page public statement has laid bare several incriminating details pointing at the Indian-American Rishi to be at the “root” of the tragedy. Dismissing “rumours” suggesting that his son was depressed or financially weak or otherwise unstable as “patently untrue”, Dr Joseph said Karan was being “enticed and coerced by Rishi Shah” to sign the contract, which Karan had deferred. Therefore the matter had become “a huge bone of contention between Karan and Rishi”.
 
 Dr Joseph said that despite his “clear, written complaint of murder” against an unknown person, “the investigating officer did not register a case under (the relevant) section 302 of the Indian Penal Code”.
 
 Highlighting the phone messages that Karan sent out to certain friends on the fateful night, the family feels that the “last communications” should be given the status of a dying declaration.
 
 “The messages, including one to Randolph (Correia), clearly show that all was not well and indicate that there was a person or persons intimidating him to a point that ultimately resulted in his death,” Dr Joseph said.
 
 He said some of Karan’s belongings were not found in his rented apartment in Khar, including Karan’s laptop, which is yet to be recovered. “Rishi Shah's staff and other people who were in the apartment had many hours and could have destroyed or tampered with evidence,” he said. “Karan's cellphone was in someone else's possession before it was handed over to the police.”
 
 Karan’s parents feel the statement made by a woman living on the 11th floor of Concorde, the building where Rishi’s flat is on the 12th floor, that she saw a “thin and bald boy” being dangled on the ledge four days prior to Karan’s death (a fact TOI found and reported on September 14) has been “brushed off” by the police. The police’s explanation, based on Rishi’s statement, that Karan was trying to retrieve some currency notes from the balcony, has been rejected by Karan’s family, which includes his mother, Tina, and brother Aashik. “This seems preposterous since currency would have been blown away from the ledge on the 12th floor with sea breeze,” Dr Joseph stressed.
 
 “We need a fair investigation,” he said. “We will not hesitate to move court for a monitored investigation or a CBI probe.” Dr Joseph said the “only reason” why he and his wife visited Mumbai in August was because “Rishi Shah contacted the family and requested us to come to Mumbai to discuss the contract”. “He made tall promises and we blindly believed him assuming he had Karan’s best interests at heart... Considering the events that have unfolded in the aftermath of Karan’s unnatural demise we now realize that his intentions were not correct.”
 
 Dr Joseph said, “My wife, Karan and I wanted time to carefully consider his proposal... Karan not signing the contract would mean a great loss for Rave.” He said Rishi’s attempt at suppressing any mention of the contract in his statements was because “this is the root cause of the incident”. He rubbished Karan’s financial difficulties, citing his recent run of music assignments, which “vouchers and pay stubs clearly reflect”, and confirmed that Karan was “not suffering from depression nor was on treatment or medication of any kind”.
 
 
