NEW DELHI: Coming to the aid of domestic budget flyers, the aviation ministry has directed   ( ) to take immediate steps for decongesting the choked terminal 1. Three low cost carriers (LCC)-IndiGo,   and GoAir-operate domestic arrivals and departures from T1, leading to the terminal handling more traffic than its capacity and causing massive trouble to flyers in peak hours. 

 "We have asked DIAL to work with airlines and decide as soon as possible which LCC goes where. Once this is decided, the summer scheduling of airline slots will happen accordingly as that will depend on passenger handling capacity," aviation secretary R N Choubey said. CISF chief O P Singh said his force was gearing up to provide the manpower, which will be required at T2 and will be able to do so whenever told by the aviation agencies.
 
 For several months, DIAL and the three LCCs have inconclusively been discussing on how they should redistribute their flights between T1 and T2 (the old international terminal). DIAL has suggested shifting some airlines or flights from T1 to T2 but a consensus has remained elusive. DIAL has so far not commented on this issue.
 
 The delay could cost Delhi dear as the   ( ) is going to hold meeting with airlines to finalise the summer schedule for flights from February 14 to 17. If both T1 and T2 are used, then the capacity available at IGI Airport will be higher. "Ideally, this decision should be taken in a few days so that IGI Airport and airlines know exactly how many domestic LCC flights they will be able to operate to and from Delhi and then slots are finalised accordingly," said an official.
 
 Explaining the reason for delay, an airline official said: "For flyers coming from Delhi side (and not Gurgaon), T1 is much closer than T2, which is next to T3. Airlines fear that shifting to T2 may mean loss of some business as T1 offers a locational advantage in terms of choosing airlines to flyers who may prefer a terminal that is closer to the city."
 
 The LCCs have made it clear to DIAL that they will not split their domestic operations between T1 and T2, which means one or two airlines will have to be shifted totally to T2.
 
 Apart from budget flyers who are fed up with the peak-hour mess at T1, airlines too are not happy with capacity constraints. They say despite having three runways, IGIA's aircraft handling capacity is much lower than what it should be. "We don't get any slots in peak hours. London Heathrow, with two runways and night curfew, is able to handle more flights than Delhi," said another airline official.
 
 
