LUCKNOW: For Anil, a college dropout, elections have brought employment. In the last two weeks, there has not been a day when he went without earning Rs 500 daily. “My father has even allowed me to drive his bike since I can afford to buy petrol now,” said the elated 19-year-old.

 He’s diffident about revealing his source of earning. “I distribute pamphlets of two political parties and, at times, also go for door-to-door campaigning.” His father, Shambhu, said the boy was always the neta of his mohalla. 
 
 Social media hasn’t yet diluted the importance of door-to-door campaigning and the word of mouth matters during elections. At the same time, many candidates may not have a crowd of supporters campaigning for free. That’s where volunteers like Anil come in.
 
 “Political parties do not have a huge strength of workers so paid volunteers are hired,” said Delhi-based   A K Mishra. The crowd with candidates is a mix of supporters and hired  . 
 
 “A keen observation would even make the hired strength stand out. Their behaviour would look different from that of the supporters,” said Mishra. To make these hired foot soldiers merge with the supporters, political consultancy firms choose them with care. The chosen ones should have an interest in politics and be aware of local issues, candidates in the fray and preferably be youth.
 
 “In every colony, you would find people who assume the role of the neta.We tell political parties to rope in such people,” said a Gurgaon-based consultant working for digital and IT campaigns of political parties. If women are hired, it’s usually for a short duration, mostly on a day-to-day basis. They are mostly kept out for safety and security reasons.
 
 Volunteers are paid anything between Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 on a daily basis. The payment depends on the expertise; the ones with good communication skills are paid more. The location is also a factor and payments could also be made on a monthly basis. The money paid includes the cost of food and lodging besides transportation. 
 
 Chennai-based political consultant Kumar said, “In assembly elections, paid volunteers are used more. Some of them, influenced by the ideology of the party, may go on to be lifetime workers. We have held sessions where we have apprised the volunteers of party’s ideology or on promoting the candidate’s image and work.”
 
 Consultants agree money is not the only factor that can draw volunteers to a candidate. It’s the image of the candidate which is the biggest attraction, followed by the party supporting him. 
 
 Planning a political campaign comprises four components; strategic, tactical, operational and technical. “The most important component is strategic which aims at studying the political environment and then is tactical which is about managing smaller areas, like a village or a district,” said Mishra. Foot soldiers are required for operational purpose also, like running an office.
 
 Hiring volunteers and training them for door-to-door campaign may cost at least Rs 5 lakh to a political party or a candidate.
 
