Gate crashing a wedding is no longer just about trying to enjoy a free meal. Recently, at a city-based wedding, a crasher dressed up in a suit was caught on camera as he grabbed the   with cash and jewellery worth lakhs and left calmly. Another case in point is that of a gang of   from MP who were recently caught in Delhi while gate crashing   there. This gang had trained a young boy to sneak off with the cash while noone was watching. We spoke to a few city-based wedding planners to find out just how grave the situation really is.

 
 
 Medium-budget weddings seem to be easy targets for these miscreants, since access to the venue is rather easy. Nikhil Khandelwal, a wedding organiser, says, “We have been noticing a number of gate crashing cases at weddings this year. Some youngsters just want to see what it feels like to gate crash, while thieves come in pairs and can be spotted communicating in sign language. When we notice such people, we take them out politely, because the clients don’t want the mood of the wedding to be spoilt.”   Ankit Macwana explains that it’s easier to gate crash a medium-budget wedding because the venues have a lot of entry points. “Most of the time, we 
 ignore instances where youngsters come to enjoy themselves, unless we foresee a threat. Also, it’s easier to mingle with the crowd at medium-budget receptions, so people enter confidently.”
 
 
 
 
 With cases of trespassing at weddings increasing, it has become necessary to be able to spot fake guests. Ramesh Chouhan, whose daughter’s wedding was gate crashed last year, says, “Eight strangers walked in dressed decently. The moment two of them started wandering near the stage we caught them and the others fled. They pleaded, and since we didn’t want to spoil the mood, we released them. But we’ve become very vigilant. This year, at the other two family weddings, we ensured that security guards were posted near the stage.” Adding to this, wedding planner Dhairya Jain says, “Besides ensuring security, we also take a good look at the guest list. We select one relative each from the bride and groom’s side to help identity guests from gate crashers.” Dhairya also adds that volunteers are deployed at parking zones since parts of vehicles are also often stolen at such functions. Wedding organiser Paridhi Jain agrees, saying, “We have even noticed people entering the kitchen to talk to the cooks. When they leave, expensive food supplies are also gone.”
