NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, on Thursday, granted an interim stay on National Power Training Institute’s (NPTI) plans to stop admissions to its BE ( ) course from the current year. It stayed the NPTI’s governing council’s decision of December 2 last year, in this regard. 

 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Atul Chandurkar, also directed the college authorities to continue admissions for forthcoming 2017-18 academic session, during pendency of the petition. The court further issued notices to the respondents, including centre and state governments, asking them to reply within four weeks. Notices have been issued to union secretaries for power and human resources development, NPTI director general in Faridabad and Nagpur branch director, AICTE, state Department of Higher and Technical Education’s secretary, technical education director, State Common Entrance Test Cell through its commissioner and  .
 
 Taking a suo motu cognisance of media report on NPTI’s plans to close the course, the court had appointed Bhanudas Kulkarni as amicus curiae and directed him to draft the PIL.
 
 The trouble started after NPTI director general RK Pandey took a decision to close down BE courses, which was being run at four places in the country, including Nagpur. He had also dispatched a letter to NU vice chancellor   for stopping admissions for 2017-18 batch. He sought a no-objection certificate (NOC) from NU for closure of its popular course having 60 seats.
 
 He had also apprised of the joint director of technical education office for not including their names in the centralized admissions process (CAP).
 
 Interestingly, NPTI was one of the most sought after colleges for the engineering aspirants, despite being a non-granted college. It was primarily due to the fact that it had 100% placement record as most of power companies are located in and around Vidarbha region. The decision by NPTI, located on  , was also opposed by its current and former students.
 
