KOCHI:   said that the ‘alleged rape’ of the popular south Indian actor was not an isolated incident and that three more persons from the film industry were abused in a similar fashion.

 “DGP Loknath Behera told me that this was not an isolated incident. In recent times, there were three such instances that they were forced to suppress either due to the fear of humiliation or because they received money to keep quiet,” said Lal, whose helped the actor, soon after the incident.
 
 He was addressing a gathering of cinema professionals, who came together to support to the actor who was kidnapped and abused in a moving car.
 
 Praising her courage, Lal said that she decided to seek aid with her fiancé’s support. Lal attacked the media and he found support in actor Dileep, who said, ‘the police is investigating the incident honestly and the media must not twist the story.’ Producer   said that the producers association has decided to vet every single person before employing them, amid questions how a historysheeter was hired by the film unit.
 
 AMMA president Innocent said that the government should ensure a comprehensive inquiry and ensure that justice is delivered. Speaking at the sidelines of the event, director   (Major Ravi) said that he had spoken to the actor after the incident and she was shocked that her driver (the accused) was part of the plot.
 
 “There are many drivers who have taken me and several other actors to their home safely, even at odd hours. This a result of criminal conspiracy and we want the police to arrest those conspirators,” said Manju Warrier.
 
 Mammootty praised the victim for her brave stand and called her the ‘symbol of defence’. “The film fraternity and the whole of Kerala stands with her in her fight for justice,” he added.
 
 Most film personalities present at the event were shocked that such an incident happened in Kerala.
 
 “There are many people among us who are scared to speak out. This is a lesson. This is a blow for Malayalis and their arrogant belief that Kerala is above such immoral behaviour. There are people who suffered like Soumya and now it is my colleague. It is a matter of great shame. We need to accept that criminal activities taking place in the industry. Till now, we took pride that despite all this nothing happened to our friends and family but that is not case,” said director Kamal.
 
