KOLKATA: Pooja  , a 16-year-old girl and a resident of B.T. Road close to Tallah water reservoir died after the roof of a century-old building collapsed and fell on her. Pooja was buried under rubble and died almost instantly. Pooja became the sixth victim of a spate of collapse of insecure buildings in past two months. The accident could have claimed more lives had Pooja’s parents and brothers stayed at home.

 While Pooja’s mother along with the eldest brother went to a relative’s place on Friday evening, her father and elder brother were taking rest outside the house because of ‘hot and humid’ weather. The incident occurred at little past midnight (Saturday) and Pooja’s father Sailendra Gupta and her elder brother watched helplessly as no one was around. When neighbours rushed to the spot and rescued Pooja there were no signs of life in her. She was declared brought dead at R.G. Kar Medical College & Hospital.
 
 According to a   building department official the civic body had declared the building as insecure 16 years ago. But tenants refused to shift out of the building. The civic engineers rushed to the spot a month ago when parts of the roof of the building collapsed. An elderly woman narrowly escaped being trapped under the debris. This time a couple of tenants decided to move out of the house while eight others chose to stay back.
 
 Sailendra Gupta an auto rickshaw driver blamed incessant rains that he felt had further weakened the already insecure structure. This apart Gupta said that a section of tenants chopped a tree on Wednesday which had been acting as a support to the dilapidated roof. “I find no consolation as my daughter died in front of my eyes and I could not do anything to save her,” he said.
 
 According to Raja Guha, a neighbor Pooja had stayed back home though she was supposed to go to her maternal uncle’s house along with her mother. Guha said the tenants were asked to move out of the highly dilapidated building but all requests from the civic administration fell on deaf ears. The KMC building department on Saturday decided to demolish the entire structure. “We had warned the tenants of the building several times. Now we have decided to pull down the entire structure,” a KMC building department official said.
 
 Quick facts: 
 Number of insecure buildings in Kolkata: 2500
 Number of high-risk insecure buildings: 100
 Number of deaths in past two months: 6
 
 Areas where the dilapidated buildings collapsed:
 A. Indian Mirror Street, July 25  : 2
 B. Shib Thakur Street: September 5: Casualty 3, members of the same family.
 C. B.T. Road September 16, casualty 1 
 
