CHENNAI: Hours after a moneylender’s   bolted up a 55-year-old man in his house in   on Tuesday morning over a   of Rs 1 lakh that he had failed to repay, the debtor hanged himself to death.

 A police officer investigating the death identified the debtor as B Loganathan, a coolie who lived in Nachiyar Chathiram, Thiruninravur. Facing mounting debts three years ago,   had borrowed Rs 1 lakh from a relative, Sumathi, promising to repay the money with interest within a year.
 
 A year passed but Loganathan failed to repay the sum and had also started to default on interest payments.
 
 “Sumathi tried to get Loganathan to repay the money but failed,” the investigating officer said. “On Tuesday, she sent her cousin Damodharan to act as her enforcer and collect the money from Loganathan.”
 
 Damodharan went looking for Loganathan. When Damodharan spotted him approach his house, Loganathan ran inside his house for cover.
 
 “Loganathan feared that Damodharan would abuse him in front of his neighbours and shame him by revealing that he was in debt,” the officer said. “But instead of going into the house, Damodharan bolted the door from the outside, trapping Loganathan inside.”
 
 “He spoke to Loganathan through a window and demanded that he pay the money he owed Sumathi immediately,” he said.
 
 Loganathan tried to convince Damodharan to open the door, vowing to pay back the loan soon. But there was no swaying Damodharan, who walked away. After a few hours, Damodharan decided to go back to Loganathan’s house.
 
 “Damodharan called out to Loganathan but there was no response. He looked through a window and saw the coolie hanging from the ceiling,” the officer said. “He took Loganathan to a private hospital but doctors pronounced him dead on arrival.”
 
 Damodharan went back to Loganathan’s house, placed the body on the floor and fled the scene.
 
 Loganathan’s daughter told police she had received a call from his father, who told her that Damodharan had locked him up at home. She lodged a complaint and police arrested Damodaran.
 
