BENGALURU: Differences between the state government and the railways over the funding pattern for the city’s   network could delay the project.

 Bengaluru development minister   has said that Karnataka was ready to enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the railways for the project. Railway minister Suresh Prabhu is scheduled to visit the city on January 16.
 
 George said, “We want to make it a joint venture, with 50-50 equity funding. We have also sent our suggestions on the draft policy proposed by the Indian Railways.”
 
 As per the draft policy, the state needs to bear 20% of the project cost, raise loans to cover 60% and the railways will contribute the remaining 20%. The draft also enjoins on the state to handle all land acquisition in Bengaluru, and other cities in the state that are in need of suburban railway networks.
 
 However, Bengaluru Central MP PC Mohan told STOI that the state government wasn’t keen on taking ownership of the project. “The railways is responsible for operating freight trains, and long distance passenger trains. Suburban rail network is a state subject. But, the Karnataka government is not taking any initiative to set the ball rolling,” Mohan said.
 
 Pointing out that the state was willing to spend Rs 2,100 crore on the steel flyover that would connect a small stretch, Mohan added: “The RITES study reveals that the suburban rail network can provide transportation to 25 lakh people daily. A flyover is a short-term fix. Suburban railway is a more sustainable solution.”
 
 Mohan said that George was constantly maintaining that the state government must not spend its money for the suburban rail network. “Bengaluru South MP and Union minister Ananth Kumar also suggested to Siddaramaiah that the state cabinet ministers should meet their central counterparts and lobby strongly for the project. But they seem uninterested,” Mohan added.
 
 Meanwhile, officials in the South Western Railway told STOI on Saturday that the joint venture between the two stakeholders is going to be on the formation of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to execute the suburban rail project.
 
 “The joint venture is the first step to set up a body that will add projects needed to develop the suburban rail infrastructure and work on the lines of the urban development department of state government. The draft policy is on funding of the project which can be discussed later,” said SS Soin, additional general manager of SWR.
 
 Rs 360 crore spent on replacing diesel coaches 
 
 The Karnataka government has agreed to replace 15 pairs of diesel multiple unit (DEMU) rakes with mainline electric multiple unit (MEMU) coaches, at the cost of Rs 360 crore, in what is the first step towards improving suburban rail connectivity in the city.
 
 South Western Railway (SWR) has also augmented one train from Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna station (KSR) that will have three services to Whitefield during the morning peak hours. It has also introduced a rail bus – a small bus-like coach from Yeshwantpur to Nelamangala. SWR will also run long-distance trains from Mandya and Ramanagara, which will be linked to the Kengeri Metro Station, which will be developed in the second phase of the  .
 
 
 
 
 Railway minister Suresh Prabhu will lay the foundation stone for the Byappanahalli coaching terminal on Monday. “This terminal will help us divert some of the trains to run to and from Byappanahalli. The project is worth Rs 130 crore and will be expanded with seven platforms. Three of the platforms with additional amenities will be ready by August 2018 and the remaining will be completed by 2019. After this, we can divert 15-20 trains to be operated from Byappnahalli alone,” said Sanjiv Agarwal, divisional railway manager of Bengaluru division of SWR.
 
 Prabhu will inaugurate a new train from Bengaluru to Shivamogga on January 16. SWR officials said the regular service will start from Yeshwantpur station to Shivamogga from January 18 and will be an overnight journey.
 
 
 
 
 Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) will submit a signature campaign to the railway minister on Monday. A total of 22,106 citizens have already signed the campaign to demand suburban railway as an immediate and long-term solution for urban mobility.
 
