JAIPUR: A day after voting in support of closing down the only liquor shop in Rozda panchayat in Amber near the city, villagers celebrated the occasion and distributed sweets on Monday.

 And even as Rozda celebrated, protests broke out in the nearby   panchayat against another liquor outlet.
 
 “Though the liquor shop in Rozda will close down, the government is opening fresh outlets in Maheshwas Kalan in Jalsu tehsil. We don’t want new shops here,” deputy pradhan Achraj Kanwar, Jalsu, said.
 
 On Monday afternoon, villagers gathered at Maheshwas Kalan and said they would not let anyone open a liquor shop in the area.
 
 The agitation by Rozda villagers had continued for 354 days before they voted to shut down the outlet. This has not happened for the first time in the state. A similar voting was held at   in Rajsamand district, which became the first to vote in support of closing down the only liquor shop in the village.
 
 Rozda panchayat has only a single liquor shop. “It’s Diwali for us, we are so happy. It was a difficult fight. Whenever we went to officials asking them to close down the shop, there was no response. But, now, the villagers are a happy lot,” said Rozda sarpanch  .
 
 In Rozda panchayat, there are 4,206 voters. Among them, 2,521 voted on Sunday. “While 2,270 voted to close down the only liquor shop, 140 people voted in support, which means 93% voted against it,” he said.
 
 Over the last 354 days, villagers and even children took out protests and held ‘dharnas’ several times. Finally, the district administration took notice and called for voting. “We organised the voting in Rozda village. The returning officer will send his report to the excise department,” sub-divisional magistrate Baldev Ram Bhojak, Amber tehsil, said.
 
 According to government norms, if 51% or more villagers of the total population voted in support of closing down a liquor shop, the government will not issue licence to the shop.
 
 Now, the district administration will send the report to the excise department, which will act on it. However, the shop at the village continues to remain open as its contract will expire only on March 31.
 
