COIMBATORE: State school education and sports minister   has directed officials of the state government and   to prioritise on continuous drinking   to residents for the next two months.

 As complaints of   and protests over irregular supply surfaces everyday, Sengottaiyyan asked officials during a review meeting on water supply situation in Erode district on Thursday to attend to every complaint without fail on a war footing. He also wanted the officials to take stern action against water lifters. He also said that funds for Kodiveri combined drinking water project would be allotted in the coming budget.
 
 “Collect funds from the district administration to set right faulty water pumps in Erode, Kodumudi and Modakurichi areas and submit a report about the same in a week. Ensuring proper water supply should be your priority for the next two months. Whenever there is a shortage of water, bring it to the notice of the district administration,” he told officials from revenue, Tamil Nadu water supply and drainages board, local bodies and other departments during the review meeting. The meeting was co-chaired by state environment minister  .
 
 He asked officials to conduct review meetings everyday. “All complaints received from the public should be acted upon in a timely manner,’’ he said.
 
 He said water managers should ensure that drinking water was not wasted. Faulty pipelines should be set right to prevent wastage of water, he said. ``If borewells were dug, Tangedco officials should provide electricity connections within 48 hours to facilitate pumping of water,’’ he said. 
 
 “Electricty department as well as police, PWD, revenue and local body officials should take stern action of illegal water tapping,’’ he added.
 
 Environment minister K C Karupannan asked the officials to make spot visits in case of complaints of water shortage. “A point person should be appointed to collect all the complaints regarding irregular water supply which should be passed on to relevant authorities,’’ he said.
 
