CHENNAI: To help students be better prepared to face challenges of national-level competitive examinations, the   government has decided to introduce public examinations for Class XI from this academic year (2017-18). The syllabus too would be revised in the next academic year (2018-19) for Class XI.

 Tamil Nadu now joins   and Kerala in implementing an examination system that has drawn both criticism and appreciation. While   introduced public examinations for Class XI in 1978, Kerala did so in 2008. Sources said TN is trying to adopt the Kerala model to provide equal weightage (in terms of marks) to higher secondary classes. "We will give 600 marks each for classes XI and XII. Modalities of subject-wise marks, including practical papers, are being worked out," said a senior government official, seeking anonymity. The plan is to reduce the exam time to 2½ hours from the present three hours to reduce stress on students. A government order is expected on Friday.
 
 The move comes in the wake of recommendations by an academic committee of Anna University, which wanted equal weightage to be given to both classes as students find it difficult to cope with higher education. Educationists found at least 21% students of affiliated colleges of   failed in engineering maths in the first semester last December. This included those who scored full marks in maths in Class XII board examinations. At least 50% of students from   and 42% from   and   districts failed in the subject. Chennai was no different with 13% being unsuccessful.
 
 Sources said in 2013, Anna university's department of mathematics recommended that government examination be held for Class XI and equal weightage given for both higher secondary classes. During interactions, faculties found schools skipped Class XI syllabus to move to the Class XII subjects. "These students have poor fundamental concepts," a professor, seeking anonymity, said. The varsity conducted bridge courses based on the Class XII syllabus. Many autonomous arts and science colleges in the state introduced the Class XI syllabus as a separate paper in the first semester.
 
 The question pattern of NEET too has portions on Class XI and XII. "Why are the students afraid of NEET? It means something is wrong," said former vice-chancellor of Anna University, E Balagurusamy, who is batting for revision of syllabus on a par with CBSE. Insisting on the revamp, educationists cite a poor 16.6% pass percentage of candidates from TN in NEET last year.
 
 Paadam Narayanan, founder of  , said the public examination for Class XI is a step forward. "But, holding public exam alone is not enough unless the question pattern is changed to move students away from rote learning toward thinking, application and problem solving. Teachers too should be given a crash course or orientation," he said. A high-level panel for syllabus revision has already met under school education minister   to set the ball rolling for the move. The state is keen on adopting NCERT curriculum in addition to the local content.
 
