MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday refused to stay an amendment to the Bombay Police Act, 1951, which makes “pre-censorship” of   mandatory in  . 

 But the HC expedited final hearing of a petition by actor   challenging validity of a section of the Act under which the police commissioner framed rules in 1973 requiring that all theatre performances be scrutinised by Maharashtra State Performance Scrutiny Board.
 
 Palekar’s advocates sought an interim stay, saying “other plays are suffering a similar fate and it is a problem theatres are facing in Maharashtra”. But a bench of Justices Shantanu Khemkar and Anuja Prabhudessai, posting the hearing in December, sought the state’s reply, saying “at this stage, we do not find it appropriate to stay the impugned Act and rules”.
 
 Palekar’s petition said scrutiny by the board curtailed artistic freedom and was an unreasonable restriction on fundamental rights to equality and to practice any profession. Arguing for him, senior advocate Shreehari Aney, assisted by advocates Abhay Anturkar and Ajinkya Udane, said only Maharashtra has censorship for plays under BPA, and this was impermissible as the Act was “for regulation of law and not dramatic content”.
 
 Referring to the early 1970s controversial play, ‘Sakharam Binder’, Aney said several scenes had to be deleted. To the judge’s query, he replied that after deletions, the play was issued a certificate, but there was no public performance. Aney also cited the example of the film ‘Daddy’ on gangster Arun Gawli “which is accepted for public consumption, but if it has to be shown on stage, police would say you are glamorizing him”. He added, “We are all flawed individuals. And every artiste has a right to display such flaws.’’
 
 Aney said the censorship board had been set up only in Maharashtra. Also, in other states, after a performance, if someone is aggrieved, he may file a complaint and an investigation is carried out. “In Maharashtra, first you have to give the script for censorship, and only then permission is given,’’ he added. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said issues raised by Palekar were covered by a 1972 judgment after which the amendment was made.
 
 
