NAGPUR: The state education department on Friday laid the ground work for the   State   ( ), one of its most ambitious projects ever which aims to benefit lakhs of school students. It will start operations from the 2018-19 academic session with a vision to provide quality and skill-based education to students right up till Std XII. 

 State education minister   told TOI that the MSOS will ensure a “drastic reduction in school drop outs”. “It gives an option to continue education as per the convenience of the students,” he said. Details about the local centres in districts are expected to be declared in a few months.
 
 The open school system is similar to the Indira Gandhi National Open University and the Yeshwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University. Currently, school students from Maharashtra have the option of enrolling at National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) but the usual mindset of many is to question the credentials of a non-regular education system. 
 
 Promising academic parity with those attending regular schools, Tawde said, “The credentials of MSOS’ future students will be at par. Based on the academic certificates issued from MSOS, students can get admission in the next higher class even at a traditional school or college.”
 
 The minister said the state is introducing MSOS after a lot of diligence. “I studied what are the options available for open schooling and realized that there were none that offered curriculum in Marathi. Also, we needed focus on skill-based curriculum to empower these students apart from ensuring that the dropouts in traditional schooling system reduced,” said Tawde. 
 
 According to government estimates, five lakh students drop out of school annually. 
 
 Though MSOS will operate with a great degree of independence with a separate curriculum, it will remain under direct administrative control of the Maharashtra state education board. The state board chairman will be the default head of MSOS too. 
 
 At least for now the administrative body for MSOS will comprise of state education officials and manpower will be sourced from board office as and when required. 
 
