AGARTALA: The state’s West Tripura and Khowai districts remained tense on Friday, two days after Bengali journalist   was allegedly killed by tribal activists of the   (IPFT).

 Vehicular movement in all north-bound roads from the city except   remained suspended. Deployment of central paramilitary forces in Khumlung, Mandwai and few locations of Khowai continued for the third day on Friday, besides extension of Section 144 of CrPC and a continuing ban on mobile data.
 
 In the two districts, most schools and hospitals in mixed-populated areas have not been functioning for the past two days. Following a series of clashes between workers of the CPM and the IPFT earlier this week, tribal people are reportedly staying away from non-tribal dominated areas and vice-versa. Supply of vegetables has been affected as tribal farmers are not venturing into the city’s markets and non-tribal businessmen are not daring to go to tribal villages. However, the railway service has been undisturbed so far.
 
 The administration in the   headquarter at Khumlung, about 25 km south-east of Agartala, has not been functioning because of low turnout. Authorities have stepped up security in hostels of schools and colleges were tribal students reside.
 
 Police said two tribal youths were injured in police firing on Thursday at Baijalbari in Khowai when IPFT supporters attacked a police outpost after the arrest of five suspects in connection with the September 19 violence between the IPFT and the CPM at Shonkhola. The scuffle left at least five security personnel, including two police officials and TSR jawans, injured. Superintendent of police (Khowai) Nagendra Debbarma said a local court sent five tribal detainees to five days’ judicial custody, which further enraged the IPFT supporters. After the detainees were brought to the Baijalbari police outpost, policemen posted there came under attack from unidentified tribal youths at least three times on Thursday night.
 
 As many as 23 policemen have been injured so far in violence in the two districts of Khowai and West Tripura in the past four days. At least 20 police vehicles have been torched and several party offices of CPM and BJP have been set on fire.
 
