Greater Noida: Nearly a week after the murder of a dairy owner in Devla village, the police have   a former employee of the district supply office and a retail shop owner for the murder. One of the accused, Kapil (26), a retail shop owner, had allegedly planned the murder in collusion with the wife of victim Virendra, as the woman was in an illicit relationship with him. The other accused, Akash (23), an employee of the district supply office, shot dead Virendra on September 12. 

 Kapil took the help of Akash to murder Virendra so that he could live with the latter’s wife.
 
 Akash shot dead Virendra between 1.30am and 2am from a close range using a country-made pistol. The pistol belonged to a youth who stays at Kapil’s house on rent.
 
 The arrests came after police examined the crime scene and questioned the two children of the victim. “All four family members were sleeping together and it was a close shot. We found it strange that nobody, including the wife and children, got to know anything. It was clear that someone had entered the room and killed Virendra,” SP (rural) Suniti said. “The two kids, nine-year-old Gaurav and 11-year-old Aditya, told us, the accused fled via the main gate. So it was clear that the gate was opened by someone from inside,” she added.
 
 Virendra and his wife had shifted to Devla village from Jewar six years ago and the woman had come in touch with Kapil, a retail shop owner, four years ago. 
 
 According to police, Virendra would often fight with his wife over her alleged affair with Kapil, who is already married.
 
 “Akash, a resident of  , was earlier working at the district supply office where Kapil met him and they became friends. The woman is yet to be arrested,” Manish Saxena, public relations officer at the SSP office, told TOI.
 
 The two men were arrested after Virendra’s brother Rajveer, who lives in Tilapta, registered a complaint against them at Surajpur police station around 4pm on Sunday.
 
 Four mobile phones, a pistol, a bike and a live cartridge have been recovered from the two men. However, they have no criminal past, police said.
 
 
