Chandigarh: Two days after the Bombay high court turned down the interim bail plea of owners of Ryan group of institutions in the Pradhyumn murder case, they on Saturday approached the Punjab and Haryana high court. 

 Apprehending arrest in the case, the group owners -- Augustine Pinto, his wife and managing director (MD) Grace Pinto and their son and CEO Ryan Pinto -- requested the HC to issue directions that they should be released on bail in case of arrest pertaining to the FIR registered at Bhondsi police station of Gurguram on September 8 for murder, under the Juvenile Justice Act and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSPO) Act 2012. The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Tuesday.
 
 In their plea for interim relief, Pintos, all residents of Borivali (East) Mumbai, told the court that they posed no risk and there could be no apprehension of their absconding. “We unconditionally undertake to join the investigation and participate in any manner that the investigating agency sees fit and to abide by the terms and conditions," they submitted in their plea.
 
 While declining to give any relief, the Bombay high court had on September 14 only stayed their arrest till Friday evening when they sought transit bail. Their passports were impounded on directions of the court.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, Ryan International Group’s northern zone head Francis Thomas filed a regular bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana high court in connection with Pradhyumn’s murder.
 
 The Gurgaon Police had arrested Francis and the school's human resource head under relevant sections of the IPC and the Juvenile Justice Act on September 11 after the child’s body was found in a washroom with the throat slit. The application was filed in the high court registry on Friday, but was returned with certain objections.
 
 Francis justified the filing of the bail application directly before the high court by submitting that two separate resolutions were passed by the Gurugram and Sohna Bar Association that no advocate would represent accused in the matter.
 
 
