KOLKATA: After years of delay, the   is now keen to connect Barasat in   to the existing   in Kolkata. Though sanctioned in 2010, the 18 km Noapara-Barasat via Bimanbandar project had remained a virtual non-starter till recently due to encroachments. Piling work along a 700-800 metre stretch between Noapara and Jessore Road will finally commence in the next few days with the state helping in the relocation of 573 encroachers from railway land. Metro Railway now plans to commission the Noapara-Dum Dum Cantonment-Jessore Road stretch by June 2018. “As soon as we complete the stretch up to the airport, we shall start construction towards Barasat. MP Dr Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar has assured all assistance and told us to commence work. It may not be possible to proceed beyond Madhyamgram at the moment due to encroachments but we shall go as far as possible with assistance from the state government,“ said M C Chauhan, general manager, Metro Railway.

 The sanctioned cost of the project is a whopping Rs 3,159.59 crore, second only to the Rs 4,259.50 crore allotted for the 32 km Dum Dum Air port-New Garia via Rajarhat stretch. Till March, 2016, only a paltry Rs 190.21 crore could be spent for the Barasat link.The project received Rs 220 crore in the 2017-18 budget.According to a senior Metro official, at least two tenders had to be cancelled as land was not available in the Noapara-Barasat via Bimanbandar stretch.
 
 “It seems that the state has finally realised that the Barasat and Barrackpore links are the last of the projects that would be funded by the Ministry of Railways. A decision has already been taken that any new Metro project, anywhere in the country , will henceforth be undertaken by the state government with private assistance if necessary . If there is any more delay , the railways may consider abandoning the Barasat and Barrackpore links altogether,“ the official said.
 
 According to Dastidar, there are no encroachments between the airport and Madhyamgram. “The Metro is saying there are encroachments between Madhyamgram and Barasat. Let the project progress till Madhyamgram at least. The state government is providing all assistance. While this work is on, we can look into the problems between Madhyamgram and Barasat,“ she said.
 
 Metro officials also believe that once work starts and people realise that it will end at Madhyamgram, there is bound to be a public outcry .People in Barasat will speak out against the encroachers and the problem may get sorted out. If all goes according to plan, the Airports Authority of India will hand over land at the airport to Metro Railway for an underground station by October, 2017. Commissioning of the airport metro link is likely to be possible by the end of 2018. Work for the Airport-Birati-New Barrackpore-Madhyamgram will commence after that.
 
