VARANASI: The Left Front will field candidates on 140 Assembly seats, including 70 from eastern Uttar Pradesh. In 2007 and 2012, the party had failed to open its account.

  (Marxist) state secretary Hiralal Yadav and CPI state secretary Girish Sharma, on Thursday, announced that “the Left Front comprising CPM, CPI, CPI(ML) Liberation, SUCI(C), Forward Block and Revolutionary Socialist Party will field candidates only on those 140 seats where they have strong presence and took up issues of public interest recently”.
 
 Releasing the list of candidates, they said CPM’s Shivnath Yadav will contest from Varanasi City South,   of CPI from Varanasi Cantt, CPM’s Shyamlal Maurya from Sevapuri and Shyamlal Singh of CPM from Pindra. CPI(ML) will announce the name of its candidate for Varanasi City North seat, they said adding, the names of candidates for Chakia, Bhadohi, Gyanpur, Madihan, Chhanbe and Mirzapur City Assembly seats have also been finalized.
 
 The Left Front leaders alleged that “faulty and anti-people policies of Modi government had benefitted capitalists and increased poverty, inflation and unemployment in the country”. They also targeted Modi government on the issue of demonetization. “It broke the backbone of stakeholders across all sectors of the economy, making farmers and weavers the worst sufferers”.
 
 Targeting SP, BSP and Congress they said that “in case of UP, the policies of ruling SP, BSP and Congress were not very different from those of BJP. “Hence, our front is contesting to save democracy and secularism in the state,” they added.
 
 Talking to TOI, Hiralal admitted that Communist parties could not win even a single seat in 2007 and 2012 Assembly elections in UP. According to him, best performance of Left parties in UP was in 1974 when they won 34 Assembly seats. 
 
 “Assembly segments like Kolasala and Gangapur in Varanasi, Mohammadabad in Ghazipur and Ghosi in Mau have been known as citadels of the Left,” he said. Left Front’s Raj Kishore had stood second in 1991 and 1996 parliamentary elections in Varanasi.
 
 Hiralal said that the Left did not want to contest on all seats just to show its presence. “We assessed our stronghold before deciding upon assembly areas for fielding the candidates,” Hiralal said. 
 
 He added that of the 140 seats where the Left Front candidates would be in the fray, there are chances of victory at 24 places.
 
