LUCKNOW: Popular street food items like  , poori, kachauri, maalpua, makhan-malai, etc is taking a toll on the health of elderly in Old City’s   area. A study conducted by King George’s Medical University’s geriatric mental health department found over 50% of the elderly population in Chowk suffering from one lifestyle disease or the other. 

 “Our team conducted a door-to-door survey and we found 52.38% senior citizens in the area suffered from   mellitus, while 56.86% were in the grip of hypertension. Besides, 58.26% had abnormal levels of lipids in blood (dyslipidemia),” said Prof Sarvada C Tewari, head of geriatric mental health department, who led the research team. 
 
 The study is part of KGMU’s ongoing research sponsored by the Indian Council of Medical Research on the health profile of Lucknow. “More alarming is the fact that diabetes among people of   could be highest within a community of elderly in the country. Similar study for Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Chandigarh indicated that elderly in Chowk were way ahead,” added Tewari. 
 
 In Tamil Nadu, 36% of the elderly were suffering from diabetes while in Maharashtra and Chandigarh, its prevalence was less than 15%. “Lifestyle diseases, diabetes in particular, deal a simultaneous attack on different parts of the body. Our detailed survey indicates that faulty eating habits and lack of physical activities were the main reasons behind the trend,” said the expert. 
 
 Findings demand a higher degree of attention compared to previous studies for the city. Citing from a study conducted by the medicine department of   in 2015, he said, “38.3% of older adults were found suffering from diabetes, so as per the recent study, there is an increase of 14%.”
 
 In the door-to-door survey, information was gathered related to a subject’s medical history, psychological variables and cognitive status like memory or time taken to perform a task, emotional health, etc. It covered 357 senior citizens belonging to 1,627 families residing in Chowk area.
 
 FRIGHTENING FINDINGS
 
 *   affect one in two elderly living in Chowk area 
 
 * 52.38% suffer from diabetes mellitus, while 56.86% have hypertension. 58.26% have abnormal levels of lipids in blood (dyslipidemia)
 
 * Diabetes among elderly in Chowk could be highest in country
 
 * Similar estimate for Tamil Nadu is 36% while for Maharashtra & Chandigarh, it is below 15% 
 
