PUNE: MBA student   (22), the daughter of  , was attacked on Monday morning by one of her classmates with a   barely a few meters away from the main gate of her  .

 The assailant chopped off the little finger on Ashwini’s left hand, while three other fingers suffered deep cuts. She also had injuries on her palms and lips.
 
 The Wakad police arrested the assailant, Rajesh Bakshi (23), having his roots in Haryana and currently residing at Wakad. He has been booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 354(D) [stalking] of IPC.
 
 Ashwini is a first-year MBA student of one of the institutions of Sri Balaji Society at Tathawade near Wakad. She knew the assailant for six months. Prima facie investigations revealed Bakshi was harassing her for the past few days, following which she had stopped talking to him.
 
 Ashwini on Sunday had contacted the college authorities and had complained against Bakshi.
 
 The president of Sri Balaji Society, A Balasubramanian, had warned Bakshi and sought a written undertaking from him stating he would not contact Ashwini henceforth. Barely a few hours after giving the written undertaking to the college authorities, Bakshi assaulted Ashwini, said an officer of the Wakad police.
 
 Ashwini’s father, Wani MLA Bodkurwar, rushed to Pune from Yavatmal district with his wife after the incident. He said, “Ashwini’s condition is stable.” When TOI asked him if he and his daughter could be named, he said, “I am OK with it.”
 
 Ashwini completed her engineering course in IT from an institution in Yavatmal. Thereafter, she opted for MBA. She has been staying at a private hostel, a few metres away from her college campus.
 
 Ashwini and her roommate were going to an ATM kiosk between her hostel and the main gate of the college around 8.30am on Monday when she was attacked. “Before she could reach the kiosk, Bakshi approached her and tried to talk to her. When she refused, he suddenly started assaulting her with the sharp weapon,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone-III) Ganesh Shinde.
 
 A student of the college, who was at the spot, said Ashwini tried to grab the weapon, but in vain. Bakshi attacked her with full force and the little finger of her left hand was chopped off. “Three of her teeth, too, were broken,” the student said.
 
 When Bakshi started assaulting Ashwini, two students rushed to her help. One of them caught hold of Bakshi from the rear. Bakshi assaulted the student with the weapon and the latter suffered injuries in stomach. The other student immediately came to his rescue and covered Ashwini. Despite the injuries, the first student snatched the weapon from Bakshi and threw it away. “The duo then caught Bakshi, while others rushed Ashwini to the hospital,” the eyewitness said.
 
 He said Ashwini’s chopped finger was found at the spot after half-an-hour of search.
 
