THANE: The 380kg iron road was placed across the railway tracks near Diva station on January 24 to win a Rs 2,000 bet, said the police who arrested five Mumbra residents for their alleged involvement in the crime.

 On January 24 night, over 700 passengers on   had a close shave as the pilot Harendra Kumar assistant loco pilot Harish Chinchole halted the express train 25-30m ahead of the 7m long   of rail. Though the train was moving at 15kmph, had it hit the piece of rail, it could have derailed. 
 
 The   were carrying out a parallel investigation into the ‘sabotage’ along with Government Railway Police (GRP) and anti-terrorism squad (ATS). 
 
 On Thursday night, Mumbra senior police inspector Ravindra Tayade got a tip-off that a robber gang was planning a dacoity on Mumbra bypass by waylaying vehicles. The police laid a trap and arrested Danish Shaikh (26), Suraj Bhosale (25), Mohammad Shabbir Shaikh Mohammad Nasim Shaikh (34), Nasir Sayyed (24) and Jayesh Pare (30). A search revealed the five men were carrying knives, swords and nails, said Thane police commissioner Param Bir Singh. 
 
 During interrogation, they reportedly confessed to placing the rod on the tracks near Diva station on January 24. “They said Maila Makandar, a history-sheeter, had placed a Rs 2,000 bet with them if they could stop or derail the train. Hence, they placed the rail piece across the tracks,” said Singh, adding that Makandar has over 50 cases registered against him at various police stations, including railway property theft.
 
 “As Makandar is presently lodged in Taloja jail, the police will seek his custody for interogation,” Singh told TOI. “It is still unclear as what was Makandar’s motive for making them place the rail piece on the tracks. We have not ruled out terror angle, but will also investigate if it was a case of mischief or  .” 
 
 The Thane police commissioner said they are now trying to check if the five men have any links with gangs that indulge in sabotage on railway tracks as well as the six similar incidents in the state—at Kalamboli in Panvel, MIDC Taloja, Nashik, Nanded, and Akola.
 
 The five accused could be handed over to the GRP and ATS for further investigation, a police officer said.
 
