PATNA: Thousands of postgraduate (PG) students from different universities of Bihar will appear in the UGC’s National Eligibility Test (NET) scheduled to be held on  .

 On behalf of the  , the test will be conducted by the   (CBSE) to determine the eligibility of candidates for   (JRF) or the post of assistant professor in Indian universities and colleges. The CBSE will conduct NET in 84 subjects at 90 selected examination centres spread across the country. Patna and Bhagalpur are the two cities in Bihar where NET is held at selected centres. Admit cards of all the applicants have been uploaded on the CBSE website (www.cbsenet.nic.in).
 
 Candidates, who qualify for the Junior Research Fellowship, are eligible to pursue research in the subject of their postgraduation or in a related subject and are also eligible for the post of assistant professor. The universities, institutions, IITs and other national organizations may select the JRF awardees for full-time research work in accordance with the procedures prescribed by them. The award of JRF and eligibility for assistant professor both or eligibility for assistant professor only will depend on the performance of the candidate in all three papers of NET. However, the candidates qualifying exclusively for assistant professor will not be considered for award of JRF.
 
 The UGC has been introducing new subjects almost every year for the NET. Yoga has been introduced from the current year. There are several offbeat subjects in which NET is held. There is no dearth of candidates selecting subjects like comparative study of religions, defence and strategic studies, folk literature, Rabindra Sangeet, percussion instruments, dance, museology and conservation and several Indian and foreign languages, including Chinese, French, Spanish, Russian, German and Japanese.
 
 The NET has assumed greater significance in view of its desirability for the ongoing interview for assistant professors in different universities of the state through Bihar Public Service Commission. The state government has announced that besides the ongoing appointment thousands of additional teachers would be appointed soon for different colleges and universities of the state.
 
 
