PATNA: Patna and several other parts of central and   are expected to witness partly cloudy conditions this weekend under the influence of a western disturbance.

 However, the cloudy conditions are unlikely to cause any major change in the temperature as both the minimum and the maximum temperature conditions are expected to remain normal. A gradual northward movement in the mercury column is likely to be witnessed from February 14, paving way for the onset of the summer season.
 
 “A western disturbance over north Pakistan and neighbouring areas is expected to hit Bihar around February 11, leading to cloudy conditions for three days. The cloud cover will, however, be shallow,” said meteorologist   on Thursday, adding there was no possibility of rainfall under the influence of the approaching western disturbance.
 
 Western disturbances are low pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the  , the   and the Caspian Sea. While moving eastward, they cause winter rainfall in the northwestern Indian subcontinent. The frequency of western disturbances is usually the highest in January compared to December and February. This winter most disturbances passed from the upper latitudes, giving Bihar a miss.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet has stated that dry and cool northwesterly winds blowing in most parts of east India are likely to drop the minimum temperature in the region by 1 to 2°C. The winds would strengthen further in another 24 hours, paving way for a chillier and cooler weather, the Skymet forecast for eastern India stated on Wednesday.
 
 According to meteorologists, it is winter in Bihar if night readings stay below 13°C. Usually, winter bids adieu to Bihar in the second week of February. “Though the minimum temperature is gradually rising at most places in the state, it is unlikely to cross the 13°C mark in the next seven days,” said Arpita.
 
 Bihar has witnessed a warm winter this time. Normally, four to five cold wave spells are observed in the state between mid-December and mid-January, but this time only one such spell was observed in the beginning of January.
 
