Mumbai:   on Monday blamed   waivers for a jump in non-performing assets ( ), stating that 60% of incremental bad loans was from the agri segment. The bank said that anticipation of waivers led to farmers from several states avoiding loan repayment. A strong 24% loan growth, however, resulted in the bank recording a net profit of Rs 3,894 crore for the quarter ended June 2017 — an increase of 20% over Rs 3,239 crore in the corresponding quarter last year.

 The bank said that its gross NPAs rose from 1.04% as of June 2016 to 1.24% at the end of June 2017. In March 2017, the ratio of gross NPAs to loans stood at 1.5%. “Of the total increase in gross NPAs, 60% pertained to the   segment. Recoveries from agricultural advances were impacted during the quarter by borrower expectations of farm loan waivers arising out of policy announcement in certain sates,” said Paresh Sukthankar, deputy managing director, HDFC Bank.
 
 The bank’s loan book grew to Rs 5.8 lakh crore — an increase of 23.4% over end June 2016. Loan growth was driven by 25.5% expansion in wholesale and a healthy 22% rise in retail loans. The bank has a 54:46 retail-to-wholesale loan mix.
 
 Sukthankar said that besides making additional provisions for the telecom sector, HDFC Bank had provided for its loan exposure to the iron and steel industry as the bank board took the view that these segments were riskier. He said that the share of low-cost current and savings account ( ) deposits fell to 44% from 48% as of March 2017 as the bank increased fixed deposit mobilisation to fund the growth in wholesale lending.
 
 He said that there has been an increase in bank deposits following demonetisation and also because of low inflation. “Partly because of low inflation regime, there have been inflows into financial assets like bank deposits and more in  .”
 
 Sukthankar said that the bank did not have immediate plans to raise capital as it was able to plough back profits. He also said that the focus was on organic growth and not on acquisitions. “For our size, opportunities that will help us move the needle are very few. Our general position on this is that we have the momentum to achieve our growth target. Having said that, it would be foolhardy to say that we will never chase an opportunity,” he added.
 
 
