This bunch of   are taking the promenade by storm, hoodies and beanies in place, a rapper swagger in every step, sometimes fleeing from cops, at other times from visitors to the beach other times from visitors to the who've come in the line of a fire-cracker.

 “You just cannot stop us.We love it too much,“ says Sathish D, of SICK -an acronym for Skateboarding In Chennai Krew. In fact, on June 21 last year, while the rest of India got down to meditating in honour of International Yoga Day, SICK had their own celebration of sorts, racing down from   to   on their skateboards, since it was, after all, World G Skateboarding Day. “Yoga day was a bit of a bother because it disturbed Go Skateboarding Day ... all those people doing asanas near the beach,“ says Tanzeem Ahmed, a second year student of  , at   in Pallavaram. “We want to promote the sport in the city,“ he adds.
 
 The SICK boys -most of them students at local colleges -meet up every weekend by the Gandhi statue at Marina Beach and skateboard for three to four hours at the very least. “The Marina is a fantastic place. It's got flat surfaces, ledges, stairs, and slopes, everything you need to try tricks,“ says skateboarder and professional dancer Jacob Dan Paul, listing them out as the beginner's level ollie (where the rider and board leap into the air without the use of the rider's hands), the flamboyant kickflip (a varia tion of the ollie where tion of the ollie where the skater flips the board 360° in the air) and rat-a-tat firecracker (where the skater goes down stairs), and a nervewracking 180 (an ollie where skaters turn their bodies 180° either toward their frontside or backs). “The cops get a little hassled when they see a girl skateboard,“ says Rosy H, Tanzeem's classmate at Vel's and one of the two skateboarding girls in the group. “I've had policemen come to me and say this is not what a girl should be doing, but I don't care,“ she adds.
 
 The youngest in the group is Aish warya, a Class VII student at   Baines, Kilpauk, and Sathish's little sister, who insists on tagging along with her brother every time he hits the beach. “She is interested and so I bring her with me. I try and make sure she does the safer stunts,“ says Sathish.
 
 But Aishwarya does try to get into the whole groove. While Sathish and Co were showing off their handstands on a skateboard trick, Aishwarya was seen trying her luck balancing on four skateboards piled one on top of the other. Even as the Marina walkers stopped to watch, and the policeman glanced disapprovingly a few feet away.
 
