Ever heard of an   doing  ? In a rare instance of its kind,  ,   (CEO)  , actually joined hands with labourers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ) who were desilting a tank at the Ummathur gram panchayat in Chamarajanagar district. 

 MGNREGA aims at enhancing the livelihood security of people in rural areas by guaranteeing 100 days of wage employment in a financial year to a rural house hold whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work.The incident to0ok place on tuesday.
 
 Hephsiba told BM it was a spontaneous action on her part. She said, during a field visit, she first went to one gram panchayat. “It was around 12 pm. I had crossed the Ummathur gram panchayat where the tank desilting work was under progress. I got a call from a member, saying that my vehicle just passed and she requested, if I could come back as they were doing some work and they wanted me to see it. About 20 women were engaged in the desilting of the tank work and had to carry the silt on the slope and deposit it at a higher level. The tank was roughly about 10 feet depth. There was nothing planned, I just joined them. I did one round and felt it was good and hence went for another round. When doing this, I also interacted with women. I asked them how many of them had toilets. We are having a drive to promote rural sanitation targeting women and girl students. Only three of them had no toilets. I immediately spoke to the Ummathur Gram Panchayat president Geeta who also participated in desilting work of the tank and told them about the scheme. This is also a model GP that actively participates in all activities and hence when they called, I could not deny them.”
 
 Hephsiba has done such work earlier too. Not just in her school days, but as the assistant commissioner of Basavakalyan sub division in Bidar, she had done work in the region. “This is a labour intensive community work. It would also lead to rejuvenation of the water bodies. These activities will make the district less prone to drought.
 
 Nodal officers have been appointed for about 6-8 gram panchayats. The district has about 130 gram panchayats. I am expecting the nodal officers too to participate in such activity. The women told me that legend goes that there was a golden chariot and it was buried in one of the tanks. It could be a good thing to discover a golden chariot under NREGA work,” she said with a smile.
 
 NREGA project aims at providing employment especially in a drought situation where there is scope for migration. “The situation is grave here and in the last two months, we have adopted a lot of strategies one after the other, to keep the momentum going, so that everyone is given employment,”
 
