NASHIK: Most of the commuters travelling in the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation ( ) in the city will not be able to use the free   services kick started by the transport utility.

 For, most of the   used by the corporation are from   National Urban Renewal Mission ( ) that is old and it is technically non-feasible starting Wi-Fi services.
 
 The MSRTC had recently promised free Wi-Fi services for its commuters across the state and slowly started delivering on the same.
 
 “The JNNURM buses are the property of Central government that is being run and maintained by the MSRTC. Any modification in the electrical system will require Centre’s nod. Besides, they are too old for any kind of development,” a senior   division official said.
 
 The Nashik city in all has 191 buses in service, plying from one part of the city to the other and connecting the neighbouring cities, towns and villages. “Of these there are 100 JNNURM buses. These buses are delicate and expensive for maintenance and the additional feature will require drawing of power supply that is likely to affect the performance of its buses. Hence, modifying them is out of bounds,” the officer said.
 
 The buses were delivered to Nashik in 2003-04 just before the Kumbh mela, and are still running in the city. Now, limited number of buses having Wi-Fi facility will mean that commuters will have to board non-JNNURM buses to get access to free internet.
 
 “This means I will have to look for the MSRTC-built bus instead of the one provided by the Central government through JNNURM to access the Wi-Fi. But as far as providing services in these buses are concerned we don’t think it is impossible for the MSRTC as it can get permissions through proper channel expeditiously for its pet project,” said Ankush Gaikwad, resident of Nashik Road who has to travel to Ambad for his job daily.
 
 Pranitee Patil, another resident from Ambad, said, “The MSRTC should find some way and get the services installed in all the buses. Why should we suffer if there is no regular (MSRTC) bus other than JNNURM on our route?”
 
 Free Wi-Fi fails to impress commuters: The MSRTC’s free Wi-Fi system on the buses plying to the interior parts of the district have not found many happy takers.
 
 Not only are the commuters disappointed with the strength of the connection but also want to be able to access social media.
 
 “I have been travelling by the bus from Nashik to Sukene on a daily-basis and accessed the Wi-Fi system through www.kivi.com, as instructed. Not only is it limited only to entertainment, but the fact is that all 30 days the order in which the movies are listed has not changed,” said Aniket Borade, an interior-designing student from a city-based college. 
 
 The Wi-Fi system is poles apart from what the MSRTC makes it seem to be. “I live in Deola taluka of Nashik district, which is about one-and-half-hour by road. I logged on to the wi-fi system only once and decided not to do it again. Being an engineering student I would want to access study material – albeit restricted – but videos and images to delve deeper in my areas of studies,” said third-year BE student Ketan Deore. 
 
 The transport utility officials said that the Wi-Fi facility was the MSRTC’s first step into digitization. “Neither is MSRTC investing anything in this service from its pocket, nor charging consumers for the same. The consumer-oriented free service will take shape in a few months as the content will be revised,” a senior MSRTC officer said.
 
