Three songs — Sanje Hothu,   and   — of his latest album, Tarak, are ruling the Mirchi charts, with   at the coveted number-one spot. No doubt   is revelling in all the praise coming his way, but composing music for the film, he says, was a risk, considering that this album sounds nothing like those of other films starring Darshan. “I was afraid of Darshan sir’s fans, since I didn’t know how they will take it. But I had to do something different; it’s important not to repeat music. So, it was a risk, but it worked out well,” says Arjun.

 The album is a mix of high-energy and melodious numbers, so which does Arjun personally like composing? “I like all the songs, since each has a unique style. If you look at Darshan sir’s introduction song, it’s a new style of song for him. I have even changed the tone of the singers and the orchestration. Birugali Yondige is a pathos song, but it sounds romantic. Kudi Maga is a pub-style song, but the lyrics are really nice and the beats are catchy. Sanje Hothu has a fusion of classical and folk music, which I really enjoyed, while  , which is an upbeat number, is based on a raga. Tarak is a ‘class’ movie and a family entertainer, so the album sounds trendy and peppy. I am happy that I got space to deliver new style of music for Darshan sir. Each song has unique style,” says Arjun.
 
 
  
 While he likes to experiment with music, he says that the support to do so is important from filmmakers. Which is why he credits director-producer   for giving him leeway with his creativity. “Prakash is very professional and the most educated director that I have worked with. He stays cool and explains exactly what he wants, which is why it was very nice working with him. He told me that he didn’t want to compromise on the songs, and while they should be hits, they had to sound different. That’s music to the ears of a composer. Most filmmakers give me the reference of my own songs; doing the same thing over and over again doesn’t push you to do better. I composed the music for Darshan sir’s   as well, but the music of that film and Tarak is completely different. That is what makes me want to work, otherwise I will get bored,” he says.
 
 
  
 Arjun has done the background score for the movie as well, which he says was a challenge since Tarak is a musical love story. “Music is everywhere in the film. Prakash had told me that the music should tell the script and not just be a filler; it should be like a character in the movie. So, it was interesting to design it. I can never forget the rerecording for Tarak. The movie is made very well and the music blends so well with the movie that it uplifts it,” says the music man, signing off. 
 
