SURAJKUND: The Haryana government will prepare a special plan for the expansion of the popular Surajkund International Crafts fair, which began here today.
 
 Addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 31st edition of the annual mega event in Faridabad district, Chief Minister   said, "The state government is going to prepare a special plan for the expansion of the crafts fair."
  
 Telangana, partner state of Haryana under the 'Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat' programme launched by Prime Minister  , would be the partner state in   next year, he said.
  
 While extending greetings on the occasion of 'Basant Panchami' and birth anniversary of Sir Chottu Ram, the Chief Minister said the fair was reducing distances as "people from all over the world participate in it".
  
 Welcoming the artisans, craftsmen and weavers of 'theme state' Jharkhand, he said the state was blessed with rich minerals.
  
 He also congratulated the artists, who came from 23 countries in the fair, and said that the event would provide a platform for exchange of art as well as an opportunity to learn and understand each other.
  
 Khattar said last year, 17 lakh people had visited the mela.
  
 "In view of the enthusiasm towards the event, expansion on additional three acres of land had been made this year. More than 1,000 stalls have been set up at the event as against 850 last year. Any conflict works to break the society whereas art, culture and music work to connect the society," he said.
  
 The BJP leader said his government was observing the present year as ' ' (golden jubilee) as Haryana was carved out as a separate state 50 years ago.
  
 He said the government had been working to connect the people with the mantra of 'Haryana Ek-Haryanvi Ek'.
  
 Giving a push to cashless transactions, the Chief Minister purchased a shawl from the stall of Nepal, a hand made portrait of Prime Minister Modi and his own from Sri Lanka stall by using Mobikwik App and POS system.
  
 He also made a visit at the stall of partner country Egypt, where Ambassador of Egypt to India Hatem Tageldin, welcomed the Chief Minister.
  
 The 15-day long Surajkund fair will come to an end on February 15.
 
