PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Just as the citizens of Pune chose Aundh-Baner-Balewadi as a model area for  , Those staying in the twin-township of Pimpri Chinchwad can choose among Nigdi-Pradhikaran, Wakad-Pimple Saudagar, Sangvi, Moshi, Pimpri-Chinchwad station area, Bhosari and Chikhali as the model area to be replicated as part of the scheme. 

 With the twin township included in the Smart City mission just before the municipal elections, the corporation has begun the process of public participation. Various questions including problems faced by citizens, areas that to be prioritized for development, aspirations for the city, and smart solutions that can be adopted will be put forward to residents. 
 
 A few options for city-wide implementation are, improved traffic management, e-governance, Wi-Fi spots, smart parking and pollution monitoring, civic officials said. 
 
 The   (PCMC), which will be handling the development projects, will put a questionnaire on the municipal corporation's website, and also launch a mobile app on Saturday for easy access. The survey forms will also be given to various households across the city, and distributed through students of schools and colleges. 
 
 Around 1.5 lakh messages will be sent to various citizens, officials said.
 
 According to officials, the municipal corporation, through various civic departments such as medical, engineering, water supply, town planning and LBT, is also seeking views of industrial and business associations, developers, on various aspects on how to make Pimpri Chinchwad a smart city. A meeting of NGOs was held on Friday at Auto Cluster for discussing the Smart City proposal.
 
 In the first phase of the smart city proposal, the central and state governments are likely to grant PCMC nearly Rs 1,000 crore. The funds would be used for various development projects, including expansion of BRTS corridors, Wi-Fi service for the twin township, 24X7 water supply , and e-learning in municipal schools.
 
 Citizens suggestions are also being sought from Central government website - mygov.in. The webpage says, “the economically vibrant city of Pimpri-Chinchwad is one step closer to fulfilling its smart city aspirations. The city is required to prepare a smart city proposal which will document the cities planned interventions for becoming a smart city”.
 
  Citizens have also been asked to prepare the Smart City logo. After receiving the suggestions, a proposal will be sent to the Central government in a few weeks. 
 
 In July last year, Pimpri Chinchwad was ranked fourth in the smart city competition. The state government had sent a joint proposal that included Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Pune was selected in the list. After Pimpri Chinchwad’s exclusion, citizens, activists and political leaders raised their voices in protest. 
 
 In December, just before the municipal elections, chief minister   announced that the twin township has been included in the Smart City mission, by excluding Navi Mumbai.
 
