BENGALURU: Heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds for the second consecutive day on Saturday led to power outages across the city, uprooted at least 20 trees and flooded several houses in Bilekahalli and Arekere on Bannerghatta Road and the surrounding areas. The city recorded 34.9 mm rain up to 8.30pm.

 The BBMP control room in Bilekahalli claimed to have received at least 50 complaints from Arakere, Bilekahalli and nearby areas about water entering houses. Of ficials blamed it on the overflowing rajakaluve in Hosakerehalli.
 
 The heavy showers also threw traffic out of gear in several areas, particularly in Majestic, Gandhinagar, K R Market, Shanthinagar, Mysore Road and Corporation Circle as roads were flooded.Motorists had to wade through knee deep water on Vittal Mallya Road. In east Bengaluru's Vivekanagar, several autorickshaws were stranded.
 
 Waterlogging was also reported from west Bengaluru areas such as Nagarabhavi near Outer Ring Road, resulting in long traffic jam.The   junction, Shivananda Circle, Chandra Layout, RPC Layout, Nayandahalli junctions were also flooded.
 
 Bescom helplines remained busy on Saturday with complaints of power cuts 7pm onwards.
 
 Earlier on Friday night, heavy rain had left several areas in the city powerless, uprooted trees and damaged cars. The level of foam on   had increased and spilled on to the road following the rain. Bescom received 5,024 complaints till 11pm Friday, most complaints poured in from   (756), followed by Hebbal (686), HSR Layout (680) and Koramangala (648). Saturday saw 1,964 complaints from midnight to 7am, of which 296 were from HSR Layout alone. Bescom could resolve only 3,270 complaints till Saturday morning.
 
 Long outages were witnessed in Koramangala and west Bengaluru's Malleswar am on Friday and power could only be restored by Saturday afternoon. The residents of 18th Main Road of Koramangala 6th block could not take their cars out of their houses because the BWSSB has dug up trenches and filled them with wet waste, and the rains opened them up.
 
 The city received 83.4mm of rain from Friday evening till Saturday 8am, and 86.4mm in and around KIA. The rainfall accompanied with wind storm uprooted 76 trees, damaged 13 cars and 8 motorcycles, according to the BBMP control room records. Only 42 trees could be cleared till Saturday morning.
 
 Mayor G Padmavathi, who was at the BBMP control room till late Friday, directed the special commissioners at the control room to inspect the rainaffected areas on Saturday.
 
 Inputs by Aishwarya C and Aieman Zoha Rafeeq
 
