AHMEDABAD: After having become an IPS officer, from being a banker, IGP Prisons, B S Jebalia, is all set to don the black coat and become a lawyer post retirement. He hasn’t applied for any extension or government assignment after he retires today. Jebalia has the distinction of serving in the police for 27 years.

 A 1995-batch IPS officer, B S Jebalia says his decision to join the courts as a lawyer was prompted by the plight of undertrials. He says many are languishing in Gujarat’s jails for want of proper and effective legal help, and he will be representing such people free of cost.
 
 “I was moved by the case of a 75-year-old woman, a   accused, lodged in Junagadh Jail. Too frail to stand and walk on her feet, she had to drag herself to the spot of roll call. But the old woman could not apply for the bail because of her poor financial condition,” said Jebalia.
 
 He recalls that he had instantly directed his subordinates to arrange legal aid for the old woman. Though the scene had made an impact on him, it was the case of another woman undertrial, lodged in Vadodara jail, that made Jebalia determined to join the profession of a lawyer.
 
 “Despite government directives to allow a 15-day parole for all woman undertrials this Diwali, this woman prisoner, a native of   opted to stay back in jail,” Jebalia said.
 
 It came to light that the woman had no money to celebrate the festival, and hence preferred to stay behind bars instead of visiting home to celebrate.
 
 “This was the moment I decided to become a lawyer and fight for these underprivileged prisoners instead of going for an extension,” said Jebalia who already holds a law degree.
 
 Jebalia’s better half Chandrika, who also holds a law degree, can join him as a lawyer to fight cases of prisoners who are languishing in jails for want of legal help.
 
 Jebalia said his elder son, Nirav, is suitably employed and the younger one, Siddharth, is in the final year of MBBS. “I will get a pension of approximately Rs 88,000, which is enough to survive,” he said.
 
 Of about 12,500 prisoners lodged in 28 jails of Gujarat, 65% are undertrials. Most are languishing in jails for want of adequate legal help. 
 
