Panaji:   Industrial Development Corporation has identified 111 companies who were allotted land in different industrial estates since 2010, but have failed to utilize the land for manufacturing even two years after getting approval. In several cases, allotted land remains vacant, or construction of industrial sheds is underway five years after   issued the allotment letter.

 GIDC has released the data under right to information (RTI), but when asked whether showcause notices had been issued to all the identified companies, officials said that the “information is not readily available”.
 
 A quick perusal of the data would indeed paint a bleak picture of Goa’s industrial activity and entrepreneurial scenario. For example, a company was given 3,200 sqm land in 2005 at Pissurlem industrial estate to manufacture paint thinners and industrial solvents. 
 
 According to GIDC, as on May 20, this year, the unit is yet to commence industrial operations.
 
 There are as many 15 industries identified at Pissurlem which remain defunct or “under construction” despite being allotted plots between 2005 and 2013. According to the documents released by GIDC, none of these plots have been taken back.
 
 Tuem industrial estate in Pernem does not help matters either. Out of the 116 companies allotted plots at Tuem industrial estate, 37 companies failed to start construction even two years after plots had been allotted.
 
 GIDC regulations say, “Construction of the industrial building must start within six months of allotment and possession and the building should be completed and commercial operations should be started within three years from the date of possession.”
 
 Acres of vital industrial space appears to be unutilized even as Goa’s   and government complain of lack of space for manufacturing facilities.
 
 However, as reported earlier by TOI, failure on the part of entrepreneurs to start manufacturing activity could often be the result of Goa Industrial Development Corporation’s lethargic approach.
 
 Information obtained through right to information shows that several entrepreneurs have complained that allotted plots lacked basic infrastructure such as water, electricity connections and demarcation.
 
 GIDC officials and entrepreneurs also suggest that several companies take possession of plots with no intention of starting commercial activity. The plots are then sub-leased to other individuals who require plots for their manufacturing units, official sources said.
 
 GIDC officials said, the government is expected to notify revised and simplified rules for sub-leasing of plots to enable land locked with certain companies to be utilized by entrepreneurs.
 
 
