CHENNAI: There were a lot of expectations around last year's Chennai Open finalist   but it all fell flat on the first day itself. World No. 48 Coric was defeated by Korea's  , ranked 104, 6-3, 7-5 in a match that lasted a little over two hours.

 Chung, who thrashed Austrian former world No 8 Jurgen Melzer in the second qualifier to make the main draw, carried forward the momentum and controlled the match from the word go. “Playing the qualifiers and coming through helped my confidence. This was the first time I was playing him at an ATP tournament and I just tried to make him toil more,“ said Chung after the match.
 
 Coric, who was coming back after an injury lay-off, began on a shaky note and was broken in the first game itself, but he immediately broke back.
 
 Chung, with his big serves, made the World No. 48 work for each point and made him play long rallies to tire him out. Coric faced another break point in the third game but he saved it firing an ace. But things were not looking good for the Croat after he committed a double fault to concede another break. Chung didn't let this opportunity go and wrapped up the set 6-3.
 
 The second set looked to tell a different story in the beginning. Chung squandered three break points in the second and fourth games which allowed Coric to gain some ground. The Croat held on to his serve to make it 3-3, but Chung, too played well under pressure in the next game to save a break point.
 
 Coric then got a golden chance to get back into the match when he broke Chung in the ninth game. But his joy was shortlived as the Korean broke him right back to draw level. Coric's serve let him down again in the 12th game and Chung made no mistake to script the first upset of the tournament. “I wasn't serving well and lost a couple of points due to that. My forehand too wasn't working. There was no problem with my injured knee and I was completely fit coming into the game“ Coric said. “The way he played wasn't a surprise for me though. I knew he was a great player,“ the Croat said.
 
 Chung will next challenge Israel's Dudi Sela, who defeated Bosnia and Herzegovina's Damir Dzhumhur 6-2, 6-2. Another qualifier to make the second round was Slovakia's Jozef Kovalik, who beat Portugal's Elias Gastao 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-2 win in two hours and 20 minutes. The Slovak now faces tournament favourite  , who had got a bye in his opening round.
 
 Russia's Daniil Medvedev also made it to the next round on Monday with a 6-3, 6-3 win over Brazilian Thiago Monteiro.
 
 
  D Medvedev beat T Monteiro 6-3, 6-3, D Sela beat D Dzumhur 6-2, 6-2, S Darcis beat N Mektic 6-2, 6-3, J MelzerR Olivo beat A BegemannY Lu 4-6, 7-6, 11-9
 
