GURUGRAM: Holi this year will be lacklustre for the 30,000 labourers across Gurugram and neighbouring Rewari district. They have decided to shun celebrations in protest against the conviction of 31 workers in the  , the verdict on which came on Friday. They have also decided to skip food on March 16, the day before the convicted workers are sentenced. 

 Amid heavy security, around 200 members of 150 unions held a meeting at   in   on Friday evening to brainstorm their next course of action. Unions participating in the meeting included six from Maruti Suzuki and Gurgaon chapters of AITUC, CITU and Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS). “Workers have decided to skip Holi to show solidarity with the 31 convicted workers. On March 15, unions from Rewari will join us. Another meeting will be held at Tau Devi Lal park in Manesar at 11am, when the next legal course will be decided,” said Khushi Ram, member of the provisional working committee of the Maruti Udyog Workers Union (MUKU). 
 
 There were around 100 labour department officers from each of the sensitive zones, including Manesar, Sector 18 and Kherki Daula, deployed at the park, along with over 500 cops. Section 144 CrPC has been enforced on Gurgaon since Thursday and will stay imposed till March 15. Earlier, ACP (crime) Mahender Sethi briefed the reserve police companies wearing anti-riot gear at Kamla Nehru Park.
 
 On March 16, workers from Gurgaon, Manesar, Bawal, Dharuhera and Tapukara will skip lunch and dinner to protest Friday’s verdict. They will not consume meals provided by their company, nor bring tiffin.
 
 Around 6,000 Maruti workers have planned to contribute a minimum amount to the aid of families of the convicted.
 
 “We’re most worried about the 13 charged with murder, as it is a non-bailable offence, though we’ve decided to re-appeal for all 31 convicts in court,” said Kuldeep Janghu of MUKU.
 
 “Whatever the court’s decision is, we can re-appeal if we’re dissatisfied with it. We’ll be in touch with the unions to ensure peace prevails till March 17, when the court pronounces quantum of punishment,” said Jaibir Singh Arya, additional labour commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 Under prohibitory orders, around 2,500 cops deployed in Gurgaon will stay on high alert.
 
