Nagpur: The state government had begun the process of developing the metro almost six years ago, but the final work hasn’t been laid out yet. The ambitious project has been aiming for a well planned expansion of the city. However, it is all set to be delayed further as the government is in fix over the railway’s proposed area. It raises a big question on the project’s special planning authority- Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) and its planning as it was them who had drafted the development plan. Guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule told TOI that the government is rethinking on the metro’s area. “Draft of development plan has been prepared for 25km area from city limit. I believe area should be restricted up to 10km. Accordingly, I have recommended a revised plan for the same,” he said. Bawankule added there were few more issues in draft of development plan that required to be examined. “Reservation for a jail has been proposed on the agriculture land. I think it should be on a hillock area. Similarly, reservation for garbage dumping yard has been proposed on an agriculture land which we believe requires a rethinking. We need to look into whether reservation of dumping yard can be shifted to places comprising abandoned stone quarries,” he said. Bawankule also said many changes are required if the government revises metro region area to 10km instead of the existing concept of 25km. “All reservations as per area will have to be changed. It will take at least 20-25 years for developing the 10km area so better not go beyond it,” he said. The BJP-Shiv Sena government in the state will not finalize the draft of development plan with Zilla Parishad elections around. The state election commission has not announced ZP elections in the district following stay from the High Court. Now, the district administration will again begin the process of delimitation and then elections will be announced. Therefore, ZP elections might be postponed to May. BJP will not take any chance by finalizing the development plan as already majority of people covered in the plan are opposing the draft prepared by the NIT. Convener of farmers organization Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Prashant Pawar said government was delaying approval to draft of development plan fearing setback in ZP elections. “NIT started the process to prepare draft in 2011 and came up with most controversial plan. NIT appointed a foreign company Halcrow Consulting Private Ltd as consultant to prepare the draft and paid it in crores. NIT completed suggestions and objections on the draft and submitted to the government four months ago. What did the government do all these years?” he questioned. Pawar said Jai Jawan Jai Kisan exposed various faults in the draft but NIT neglected it. “Government should set aside the draft and again begin the process. The draft is in favour of layout developers and totally against innocent farmers,” he said.