New Delhi: Presidents of the top   have recently assured  , particularly those from India in high-tech courses, that they are still in demand by top American industrial and business enterprises notwithstanding the recent noises to change  , according to an Indian-origin CEO and president of Michigan-based top technological university.
 
  “The   in US universities have no reason to get unduly perturbed if they are seeking placements in   after finishing their courses. Presidents of top universities in America in a recent move have assured the Indian students that their talent is very much acknowledged in the USA. Top American firms are keen to employ Indian students like before notwithstanding noises over changes in  . The universities in the USA are with the international students including those from India,” Indian-origin president and CEO of Lwarence Technological University Virinder K Moudgil, currently on a visit to India, told ET.
  
  Moudgil, who is meeting Indian students aspiring to enroll in US universities, assured them that   are safe and efforts are being made to promote multi-culturalism. He described the recent controversy as a ‘blip’ which will disappear.
  
  Claiming that USA was a hospitable place to study and prosper, the senior academician said that American universities provide best of research environment for any student to excel in his or her chosen discipline. “Indian students in the USA do well because they are not only talented but also hardworking. Therefore, they are at an advantage and are sought after by the American firms across disciplines,” Moudgil explained.
  
  He recalled his own success story from a boy in Ludhiania who went on to become president of an US university. “I went to the USA for higher studies in early ’70s. I returned back and got a cushy job as a lecturer in a top university in Punjab. But I went back to the USA as it was giving me the opportunity to excel in my area of research. Thereafter I charted a different course and even had the opportunity to even lead an American university,” said Moudgil. 
