PATNA: The   (SIT) probing the Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) paper leak scam searched the house of its former chairman Sudhir Kumar’s in-laws at   in Jharkhand on Saturday. A 1987 batch IAS official, Sudhir is in jail and has been suspended for his alleged involvement in the case.
 
  The SIT had got the search warrant from a Patna City court on Friday. However, the details could not be known as the search continued till the last report came in. The SIT is looking for the two sets of question booklets and answer keys which were allegedly made available to Sudhir’s nephew Ashish Kumar at the Hazaribagh residence. Ashish and his brother Arun Kumar, Sudhir’s sister-in-law Manju Devi and two other relatives, Hariom Kumar and Ranjan Kumar, were the candidates for the clerical grade posts for which the Intermediate level examinations were to be conducted in four phases. The government had scrapped the exams. After his arrest, Ashish confessed that Sudhir had made the questions and answer keys available to him.
  
  The search operation is very important for the SIT as the cops are looking for more concrete evidence against the IAS official. The SIT is also searching for Delhi-based evaluator Anand Barar, who would be a major link in the scam.
  
  When asked, SSP (Patna)   said the search was mainly to recover the two question papers and answer keys supplied to Ashish at Hazaribagh. “Police are also searching for suspicious cellphones,” he said.
  
  Ashish had sold the questions and answer keys to Random Coaching Classes owner Rameshwar Kumar, who supplied the material to Verma ITI Coaching Institute owner Nitin Kumar alias Sanoj. Nitin also made money by circulating the questions and answers among several touts.
  
  One of the touts was government schoolteacher Atal Bihar Rai, who had earlier worked for   proprietor Ramashish Rai. The school, which was disaffiliated by the CBSE, had been made one of the centres in Patna for conducting the BSSC examinations. The questions were leaked on February 5 morning from the AVN School and went viral on WhatsApp. It was found during the investigation that questions of all the four-phase examinations were leaked.
  
  The SIT is also awaiting forensic reports on the handwriting in the answer keys. “SIT is documenting all evidences properly only after which any major arrest would be made further,” said a senior police officer.
