MEERUT: Two months after the   government came to power in the state,   in the district are a disgruntled lot with more than Rs 6,000 crore of dues still pending. The saffron party, during the election campaign, had promised to clear farmers’ payments in 14 days’ time. Newly appointed CM Yogi Adityanath also announced on March 23 that all dues will be paid by April 23.

  “The BJP made tall claims about being a party with a difference. But we have realized that they are not different from any other party. My dues of over Rs 3 lakh this year are yet to be settled. There are pending dues from the previous year as well,” said Sheeshpal Rathi, a cane farmer of Muzaffarnagar.
  
  “I voted for the saffron party hoping the BJP will do something for farmers. But, it has done absolutely nothing. They made big promises but failed to deliver. They asked for votes but now there is nobody to listen to us. I have to go to the sugar mill every day and beg for payments,” said a farmer in Daurala, who did not wish to be named.
  
  Farmer unions are growing increasingly concerned about the situation. “The government should realise that farmers are not a high-income group of people. They earn little and have expenditures for which they have to pay with the help of payments received from the mills. Making assurances and not keeping them is akin to cheating,” said Rakesh Tikait of the   (BKU).
 
  “The payments should have been made. The government did not keep its initial promise of paying off dues in 14 days. The farmers are growing increasingly anxious with the situation,” said Pushpendra Singh of the Kisan Shakti Sangh.
  
  Suresh Rana, state cane minister, however, claimed that payments were made in record time under the new government and the remaining amount will be cleared soon. “We have made record payments in the last few days that we have been in power. We have cleared substantial amount of dues. You should also look at the positives. The remaining dues will also be cleared soon,” he had said.
