SHIMLA:   in Himachal Pradesh cannot be sold for other  . However, the   in the state is now reportedly bringing a policy that will allow sale of tea gardens. This has irked the opposition BJP, which has claimed that the policy would prove disastrous for the heritage  , which is already struggling for survival.

 While the cabinet has yet to discuss and approve this policy, the leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal has started questioning the intention of the government. Dhumal said before the 2012 assembly elections, the Congress had promised to revive the ailing tea industry of   by launching a rejuvenation scheme.
 
 In the last four years, no scheme to improve the tea industry has been launched, Dhumal said. Rather, an attempt is being made to wipe out the existence of the tea industry in Himachal Pradesh. He said it was reliably learnt that government is going to amend the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holding Act, 1972 by bringing a proposal before the cabinet to allow the sale of tea gardens.
 
 Dhumal said that act was framed to save the tea industry of state and protect it from outsiders. He alleged that the amendment would benefit none but the land mafia and builders – he termed it a conspiracy to ruin the state’s tea industry. 
 
 Dhumal said people travel from across the world to see the lush tea gardens of Kangra. To prepare the special Kangra tea, the Centre had established a tea board in Kangra district, he said, alleging that the government, instead of strengthening the local industry, wanted to raise concrete jungles.
 
 Ruining the tea gardens would result in killing off tourism in Kangra, Dhumal said, adding that the BJP would not allow that to happen. 
 
 18 big planters remain
 
 In 1947, there were around 500 tea growers in Kangra district with average holding of 25 hectares. Today, 1,100 hectares of tea gardens are abandoned in the state. At present, Himachal Pradesh has total 1,500 planters but of them only 18 are big planters with tea gardens spread over 10 hectares or above. 
 
