After conducting a cricket tourney, the  , under the aegis of Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community, will organise a   on June 17 and 18. What makes this event special is the   ‘Stem Cell Donor Registration Drive’ alongside.

 Naresh Shenoy, a trustee, said: “We decided to make this kabaddi event meaningful by organising a stem donor registration drive. We have joined hands with Datri, a not-for-profit organization founded in 2009 to save lives of people suffering from life-threatening blood disorders like blood cancer and thalassemia. When we came across a three-year-old boy Ishu from Mumbai in need of a donor, we decided to help him,” said Shenoy. 
 
 According to Datri, people suffering from life-threatening diseases can be cured through a bone marrow or a Peripheral Blood Stem Cell (PBSC) transplant. For a successful transplant, the patients’ genetic typing needs to closely match with that of the donor. Every patient has a 25 per cent chance of finding a match within the family. However, the rest of the patients don’t find a suitable donor within the family. In such cases, there is a need to find an unrelated donor or a cord blood unit.
 
 Donor registries work towards creating a diverse database where the search of a life-saving donor meets a match. There are over 50 donor registries and more than 18.5 million registered donors across the globe, with a very few Indians being a part of it. This reduces the chances of finding a possible match for a patient of Indian origin. India is in real need of a functional registry with donors belonging to diverse ethnic backgrounds. A patient is more likely to find a possible match within his/her race/ethnicity, that is with people sharing the same cultural linguistic, biological traits and so on.
 
 “This drive is not restricted to the community alone. This will help building a data bank,” said Shenoy. Earlier, the cricket tournament raised Rs 6 lakh for the kin of two accident victims — Santhosh Nayak (34) and Charan Pai (21) —who died when they returning from Goa.
 
