Until 2012, the compound of LIC building, Mohan Nagar, used to be filled with heaps of carbon papers and other refuse from the four corporate offices that operated there.  The building houses two offices of LIC, Central bank and Hindustan Petroleum. Foul smell emanated from the waste, which occupied majority of the parking space in the compound.  Today, it would be difficult to imagine that this clean and green premise was once a dump yard for office waste. “All the change we see today is the effort of that person,” says Ashish Ingale, a security guard, pointing to Sunil Bhagwat who is sweeping at a distance.  “I have been seeing him regularly all these years. He comes to the premise by 6.30 in the morning, starts by watering all the plants, and sowing new ones, and then sweeping the compound, which goes on till about 9,” he adds. Bhagwat was the faculty at Central Bank’s zonal staff training centre in 2012, who not only spent Rs18,000 then to get 18-truck worth of garbage cleaned, but also used to sweep the premises everyday before joining the duty. Till today, two years after his retirement, he comes every morning to clean the area. Last year on January 26, a small part of the compound near Central Bank was officially inaugurated as Tan-Mann-Dhan park, having several varieties of plants, some of which now bear bright and colourful flowers, all sowed by Bhagwat. He has also formed an organization to maintain the area, with members from the four offices. “He doesn’t take support from anyone,” says Attadeep Shende, a newspaper vendor of the area. “An 80-year old tree had fallen here. Bhagwat planted another tree in the same place. The stretch of soil along the walls of the bank had turned into a spittoon. Bhagwat did planting there, and now, no one spits there. He keeps telling me to plant a tree too,” he adds. Talking about his purpose, Bhagwat says that the earth is his mother. “This is my worship. When I water these plants, I feel I have performed by rituals. This is an agreement I have with God. People litter barren spots, defecate there or spit there. I sow plants to discourage this,” he says. Bhagwat was hailed as an unsung hero by then CM Prithviraj Chavan in 2011. He has also carried out cleaning projects in Dharampeth and Akola and wishes to continue this task, that holds spiritual meaning for him.