Illustrious alumni from different fields, far and wide, will be in the city soon to celebrate the 200th birthday of their alma mater  , the country's oldest institution for higher studies. Till this weekend, almost 20,000 former and present students -a significant population now settled abroad -have evinced interest to be part of the  . As word of the reunion spread far and wide, hundreds headed home for the   have deferred their arrivals, air tickets for December hurriedly pushed back to the second week of January .

 “I miss Presidency , the place and its ambience. I miss some of my great teachers.And I miss my old friends, who gave the lessons of life. I have no connection with this year's official programme, but I am looking forward to a reunion of the batch of 196972. I will be meeting friends I haven't seen for the last 43 years! That makes me excited,“ says Sekhar Bandyopadhyay , head of School of History , University of Wellington and a Rabindra Puraskar winner. Whether they are flying in from the US, UK or New Zealand, most of Presidency's alumni are eyeing the Founders' Day on January 20 to spend an entire day in college. And not everyone has managed the government pass needed to attend the programmes. But that has not ebbed the enthusiasm and no one is complaining.
 
 Many have made their own “arrangements“ and the city has already been witness to a number of informal reunions.Those flying home say the nostalgia and excitement of meeting classmates ­ many of them after decades ­ and the hope to “return something back“ is dividend enough.There are of course personal favourites to look forward to, they add.
 
 By Saturday , Presidency College Alumni Association had to shut down registrations for its January events -a heritage walk and later a lunch at Coffee House, a keynote addresses by President Pranab Mukherjee and former PM Manmohan Singh and a play directed by alumnus thespian Arun Mukhopadhyay . Registrations for the celebratory cricket match at Eden Gardens is the only gala event where one can still register online.
 
 “We received an overwhelming response and accommodated as many as possible.But there are security protocols and we had to stop registrations,“ said Sandip Kar, chairman of the sub-committee on global relations, Presidency Alumni Associa tion. Kar is a top-notch bank executive in eastern India.
 
 Sanmoy Mukhopadhyay , a 1972-batch physics student and now technical adviser to the Los Angeles County Department of Human Resources, is excited for a different reason. Presidency remembers him for being the founder-member of the Presidency College Students' Association. “I remember a person who represented the other political faction with whom I had umpteen number of debates. I had last met him on a road in 1978 and debated Indira Gandhi's imposition of the Emergency . I heard he is coming. I want to sort it out this time,“ says Mukhopadhyay , tongue-in-check.
 
 The comparatively “younger“ generation has plans of meeting up “several times“ towards the end of January . “You know I still like my old introduction approved by the legendary Dilipda. It says roll number 7, entering class of 1986 and only 66 short of 69, physics pass class,“ says  , who studied geology between 1986 and 1989. Presently the corporate fellow and director, Urban Dynamics Institute, Oak Ridge National Laboratory , he will reach the city on January 19 from Knoxville in the US. “Who on earth will miss the 20th? But it is the cricket match that will ensure me and my gang have a blast at Eden Gardens,“ he says.
 
 Ajanta Guha, a geography student who visited the city last year after a gap of 19 years, will be making a second trip this time too from New Jersey .
 
 Ritika Sen, one of the youngest, is from the 2001political science batch. Now the founder and co-owner of a fintech firm in London involved in digital currency research, Sen has already attended a reunion on the last day of last year. “You know that there are certain odd memories I linger on to from my college days -walking barefoot in knee-deep water, the mutton Afghani of Coffee House to the rickety shop outside the main gate selling cheap momos for Rs 15. But when I walk into the college, I will be looking out for those,“ she says.
 
