KOLKATA: With the torrential downpour uprooting trees and snapping cable wires across the city, thousands missed the Barcelona magic on Wednesday night. Even as Messi and company tamed the challenge of PSG by a whopping 6-1 margin, soccer-lovers across south and parts of east Kolkata fumed and fretted. All that they could watch were blank television screens that refused to spring back to life for more than 24 hours in some areas.

 The cable outage affected Alipore, Chetla, New Alipore, Garia and   the most. In parts of Chetla and New Alipore, the blackout lasted more than 24 hours. “I was eager to catch the Barcelona match for days. On returning home from office, I was surprised to find all channels blank. My cable operator told me an uprooted tree had snapped wires and the repair would take around 12 hours. I was heartbroken for a match like this happens once in a decade,“ said Samrat Ray, a private firm employee from Chetla.
 
 Multiple-system operators (MSO), ho wever, claimed there was no disruption on their part. “The local operators wires may have been affected. But our systems were not disrupted, despite Wednesday's showers,“ said Sudip Ghosh, director of MSO Manthan. Scores of Manthan subscribers, on the other hand, complained their screens went blank shortly after 3.30pm. “Immediately after the showers ceased on Wednesday, my TV went blank. Icalled my operator who said an uprooted tree has snapped cables. The repair work took more than a day and my TV remained blank till 5pm on Thursday,“ said  , a New Alipore resident.
 
 Snapped wires will continue to affect cable TV services, said   of  . “We have been insisting on underground cables that are safer and cleaner. But most MSOs have overhead ones which will obviously be affected in such weather. More than 80 per cent of the cables in the city are in a bad shape and fixing them is difficult.Such disruptions are unfair on the subscribers but it cannot be helped,“ said Chatterjee.
 
 Barcelona fans across Kolkata were, however, did not accept such arguments. Raja Gupta, a Tollygunge resident, went over to a friend's place in Kasba after midnight to catch the match live. “It would have been a crime to miss the match. And my decision to travel to my friend's place turned out to be a wise one. But as a cable subscriber, I felt cheated,“ said Gupta, a Manthan subscriber.
 
