Gymming in Noida just got a lot cooler, literally! Replacing confined spaces and sweaty people are   in the city’s parks, and despite the cold, residents don’t want to give working out here a miss. Usually, when you think of a gym, you think of a crowded place with loud music and bulky men admiring their biceps. But now, Noida’s out to change that imagery. Now, rather than working up a sweat in a closed space, Noidawallahs can work out in parks while enjoying the cold weather. Last February, Noida Authority had revealed its plans to start open air gyms in 15 of the 27 parks that are owned and maintained by the authority. 

 The first two of these gyms – in Sector 36 and Sector 50 – were launched in November last year, while a third came up in Sector 108, and became operational just before the New Year. Since their launch, these gyms have caught the fancy of local residents, who visit them regularly. And despite the cold weather, Noida residents aren’t ready to give up exercising.
 
 
 In Sector 108, the gym is located at the SP-1 Park. Like the other two gyms, it provides 17 different machines for users, ranging from free weights to exercise bars. Residents say that while the gym is almost always occupied, it is particularly crowded on weekends, when people from nearby sectors also come to exercise.  , a Sector 137 resident, who visits this gym every weekend, says, “Many societies and apartments here have their own clubhouses and gyms, but not everyone can afford to go to the fancy gyms here. It’s good for people like us, as it pushes us to step out of our houses, and allows us to enjoy some fresh air while working out. The cold doesn’t bother us, and you can go as per your own convenience, without any timing restrictions.”
 
 The Sector 36 open-air gym is a hit with female residents from nearby sectors, many of whom say that this not only saves money spent on indoor gyms, but also kills the monotony of working out in an indoor setting. Rajkumari, a resident of Sector 36, tells us, “It’s been particularly great for female residents. Till now, the only physical activity that we did was walking in the park. Not all of us want to go to gyms here, we prefer to be out in the open. Even though it’s cold, it’s preferable because you can come during the day, when the sun is shining.
 
  
  According to most women, these open-air gyms not only save money spent on indoor gyms, but also kill the monotony of working out in an indoor setting (BCCL)
 
 
 For Noida’s youngsters, these gyms have replaced their evening recreational activities, like playing football or cricket. Raghav, a Class XII student who goes to the Sector 108 gym everyday, says, “Earlier, we would play football in the park in the evening, but now, this gym has taken over. It’s more fun, especially when we try to outdo each other. Aur achha hi hai, khel khel mein body ban jaayegi.” Saurabh, a 16-year-old student from Sector 93, says, “My friends and I go to the Sector 108 gym every evening now. It’s great fun, and the best part is that our parents are cool with it. If we go out to play cricket or football, they say don’t waste so much time playing. But they are totally fine with gymming. It’s a win-win situation.”
 
 
 While the three gyms are replete with the latest machinery and equipment, some residents are still hesitant to use them, as they say they don’t know how to operate them. Preeti, who has visited the Sector 50 gym twice till now, says, “I’m a novice when it comes to gymming, but I do know that unless one exercises properly, they can do more harm than good. Most of us don’t know how to exercise on those machines. If there was a trainer to help us, that would be great. Maybe the authority or the RWAs could do something in this regard. ”
 
 
 Some residents say they are worried about young children getting hurt at these gyms, as they try their hand at all the different machines, treating them like something to play with.  , who is a regular at the Sector 50 gym, says, “Little kids treat it as their playground, as if these are swings or something. It’s good if they want to exercise, but that needs to be done properly. There is no trainer here to monitor them, which is why it could be dangerous. That is one drawback that I see.”
 
 The gym at Sector 36 has even put up a notice asking kids younger than age 16 to refrain from using gym equipment. The RWA officials who have put up the notice say that this has been done to ensure safety of the kids.  , president of Sector 36 RWA, says, “People come with kids as young as age three or four to the gym. This is gym equipment, and not some swing for the kids to play with. If they get injured, who will be responsible? Hence, we have requested residents not to send young kids to the gym, and have put up a notice to that effect. We had even posted a guard near the gym to oversee things, but residents would fight with him, so we told him not to come.”
 
  
  Few residents are worried about children getting hurt at these gyms (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
