NEW DELHI: With municipal elections just a month away, International Women’s Day is an opportunity for the women members of the outgoing corporations to turn the mirror on themselves and assess their status as empowered leaders. Politics, associated with cynical power play and corruption, is not an easy field to tread, but the women councillors have learnt to take things in stride, and most of them today scorn the assistance of men in the practice of politics.

 Many councillors who entered the electoral fray on the back of the 50% reservation in seats introduced in 2012 have since turned into seasoned politicians. “I was interested in public life, but the seat reservation was important in my entering the system when no one in my family had ever run for a public post earlier,” testifies  , an economics don-turned-politician and a first time councillor from Naharpur. “My husband has been supportive, but I have retained the power for myself,” adds the former deputy mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. 
 
 Goyal concedes that there were serious doubts about the reservation policy achieving its aim of empowering women when husbands and male relatives loomed large in the background. But things are gradually changing, she says. “Even the corporators who were initially meek and relied on their husbands have, over five years of public exposure, become confident,” claims Goyal.
 
 Agreeing that the reservation would prove real only when women councillors became independent, Swati Gupta, BJP councillor from Dilshad Garden, did in 2012 what her husband Anil Gupta could not do. She won while her husband lost the polls by 12 votes. A symbol of women empowerment in the ward ever since, Gupta has seen to several development projects and justifiably boasts, “I built a mini stadium in the municipal school, opened the Panchkarma hospital, started a nursing college and and established a central medical store.”
 
 However, Neetu Chaudhary, elected for the first time from Sarita Vihar, thinks the issue of spousal independence is irrelevant. The promotional material in her office describes her as “Neetu Manish Chaudhary”, the middle name a concession to her better-recognised husband. “I had no experience in politics but my husband, who was DUSU general secretary, helped me. It was teamwork,” she asserts, when told that residents of her ward commend the efficiency with which she had worked.
 
 “Many women have been encouraged to come and complain because I am a woman,” adds Chaudhary. “This, in turn, is encouraging more women to come into public life.” She might have stood in for her husband in 2012 after Sarita Vihar was reserved for women, but is today all gung-ho about a possible second term. 
 
 Like Chaudhary, Geeta Sharma, councillor from IP Extension, has been sensitive to the needs of women constituents, passing on to them the empowerment she got after winning a seat in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. “I focused on the health and fitness of women, so necessary for wellness in the family,” says Sharma, having spent a big portion of her councillor funds to start modern, all-women gyms in the ward.
 
 This gutsy attitude of women who tentatively took up civic leadership and have grown into their roles makes North Corporation councillor Shobha Vijender, wife of BJP leader and MLA Vijender Gupta, say they stand more empowered than before on International Women’s Day, 2017. “Reservation allowed women to enter politics, and the councillors have since facilitated women’s political participation at the grass-roots level,” she smiles.
 
