BENGALURU:  , Bengalureans were fervently hoping for some respite in the form of   last week. But, when the sky opened up on May 20, and the city received an initial burst of 30mm rainfall in as many minutes, Bengaluru was left with   and more than 100   -a clear indication of its  .

 Meteorologists pointed out that the total rainfall recorded on Saturday was 40.8mm, which meant that more than 75% of the rain had come down in half an hour.
 
 Scientist and director in charge of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru centre, Sundar M Metri said instances of high-intensity rain spells, coupled with gusty winds and thunderstorms, were on the rise in recent times. “The total rainfall that Bengaluru has received this season, beginning from March 1, is 200mm, of which 120mm was recorded in the past seven days. While departure from normal quota of rain was 29mm on Saturday , it was 49mm for the rain that lashed the city on Monday ,“ Metri told TOI.
 
 Officials with the weather department said should the city receive two or three spells of similar high-intensity spells of rain in the coming week, Bengaluru could well be staring at the wettest May since 1957; 60 years ago, the city received 287.1mm rain in May .The highest rainfall recorded in a span of 24 hours this month was on May 6, 1909 (153.9mm).
 
 Gusty winds, coupled with concretization of pavements that have led to the roots not getting sufficient nourishment, have seen scores of trees crashing down in the city . “The wind speed recorded was 48kmph on Saturday . It was faster on Monday night, at 56kmph,“ said IMD officials.
 
 
 
 
 Pointing to Bengaluru's waning water retention capacity , urban experts said the city was ill-equipped to handle high-intensity rain spells, and gusty winds. Arvind L Sha, who works on climate impact assessment at the Public Affairs Centre, said: “In the past three decades, mean temperature has increased, and the weather system has gone haywire as a result. High-intensity rain, and gusty winds, could be a consequence of heat island effect as well,“ he said.
 
 Sha was, however, quick to add that Bengaluru wouldn't have faced any trouble handling such a downpour 20 or 30 years ago. “Our waterbodies were in good shape, and there were enough trees to absorb and re lease rainwater. The damage that the city has faced is as much a result of climate change, as it is of the mistakes we citizens have made,“ he pointed out.
 
 Professor of agro-meteorology at the University of Agricultural Sciences, M B Raje Gowda said the number of extreme weather events are likely to increase in the coming days. “It's high time the state and central governments took cognizance of the problem and came out with a comprehensive action plan to tackle it,“ he said.
 
