NEW DELHI: Theirs is a love story that is not just taboo, but breaks the   and is a social   in a conventional society. Two cousins,   (names changed), wanted to live together, but met with stiff resistance from their families. This compelled them to elope in 2014.

 Three years later, police managed to track them down. A reward of Rs 20,000 had been announced for information of their whereabouts. This bizarre love story was reported from northwest Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar. The girls met in 2013 at their unwell grandmother’s house and with time grew fond of each other’s company. Their family got concerned due to their increasing closeness as the girls would get rebellious if not allowed to talk or meet.
 
 Simran lived in Delhi whereas Karishma lived in Rajasthan’s Deeg. Having faced harassment at everyone’s hands, they left their homes and settled down in Jaipur. “She had left home for college after fighting with us when we asked her never to talk to her cousin,” said Simran’s father.
 
 The family filed a missing complaint on November 6, 2014. Two days after Simran went missing, even Karishma left her house. This was when the families fought and blamed each other for kidnapping the girls.
 
 The case got even complex when Simran’s younger brother went missing a week later. He returned home three days later alleging that Karishma’s family had kidnapped him. “A kidnapping charge was added to the case and a team led by SHO Bharat Ram started a search for the girls,” said DCP (northwest) Milind Dumbere. A case under the same sections was also found registered at Deeg police station.
 
 “I was trying to locate my sister for the past three years and travelled to Aligarh, Faridabad, Alwar, among other cities, to get a clue,” said Simran’s younger brother.
 
 While going through old records, police zeroed in on an address in Jaipur. The girls had rented a flat in the city. “When the police found Simran, it seemed like she was with another man. However, a close look revealed that she was with none other than Karishma who had cropped her hair short and was dressed up as a man posing as a ‘normal’ couple,” said Dumbere.
 
 While Simran was brought to Delhi, Karishma was handed over to Rajasthan Police. The girls say that they are willing to stay with their families if they don’t object to their relationship,” said a police officer.
 
 
