Ben nu dhyan raakhjo (Take care of Anandi Ben)“.

 This parting request in 2014 made by PM-in-waiting   to leader of opposition Shankersinh Vaghela in the state assembly, spoke volumes of the latter's might to bring about another political upheaval after he crafted the Khajuraho rebellion in the mid90s which split the BJP down the middle.
 
 Vaghela left CM Anandiben unscathed but shook the already shaky Congress on Friday by quitting the party he had adopted in 1998. Vaghela spent the first 30 years of his fivedecade-long political career with Sangh Parivar outfits. In fact, he was among the key RSS and Jan Sangh members who traversed the length and breadth of Gujarat, several times with Modi, to strengthen the BJP after being inducted into the saffron fold in 1969.
 
 In his own words, Vaghela's public life began when he was in class 9 when his Gandhian class teacher Ranchhod Patel inducted him into Seva Dal in Ladol near Vijapur. Later, he was ushered into the Jan Sangh after being trained by RSS stalwarts like Kashinathji Bagavade, Anantraiji Kali and Laxmanravji Inamdar.
 
 They travelled to 16,000 of the 18,000 villages of Gujarat, on trucks and on foot where no transportation was available.They survived on peanuts and chana, and braved adverse weather, all this to strengthen Jan Sangh. Later, after the Emergency when Vaghela was jailed, Jan Sangh was merged into Janata Party and subsequently emerged as BJP when the alliance against Congress collapsed.
 
 Born to a farmer family in Vasan village near   in 1940, this economics postgraduate displayed his might in 1995 by rebelling against  , who was made the chief minister after BJP got a landslide 121 seats.
 
 As a Godhra BJP MP then, the Kshatriya strongman rushed around 55 rebel BJP MLAs to Khajuraho and later became the chief minister in 1996 by forming a government with the support of Congress to his newly-formed Rashtriya Janata Party (RJP). However, his government was shortlived and got decimated in the 1998 assembly polls, which led to RJP's merger with Congress.
 
 Vaghela has the distinction of being the only political leader to helm both the major parties in Gujarat as their state presidents. With Congress in complete disarray ahead of the 2002 assembly polls, the high command chose Vaghela to restore order and appointed him the state party president, much to the chagrin of other senior leaders.
 
 After the defeat in the postriot polls, Vaghela even launched Shakti Dal (Danda Sena), the baton-wielding brigade of youngsters.
 
 
