CHENNAI: When leg-spinner   emerged from oblivi on to excel for Rajas than Royals in   2013 at the age of 41, most people felt he was a one-season wonder who would soon fall by the wayside. Almost four years later, Tambe is still going strong and will play for   in the 2017 edition.

 After a three-year stint with the Royals, Tambe represented   in the IPL last year but was released in December after a return of five wickets from seven matches. Unperturbed by the snub, Tambe went on to be the leading wicket-taker for Mumbai in the inter-state T20s earlier this month with six wickets at an economy rate of 6.60 and was duly rewarded with selection in the West Zone side for the inter zonal competition.
 
 Tambe's performances clearly didn't go unnoticed. The Mumbaikar was shrewdly picked up by SRH for his base price of Rs 10 lakh in the recent IPL auction. "SRH is a well-run franchise. They are defending champions as well. Hopefully, I will get a chance to play a lot of matches. It doesn't matter which franchise I'm playing for as my only goal is to perform well," Tambe, who is in the city as part of the Mumbai squad for the Vijay Hazare Trophy, told TOI on Friday.
 
 When asked if he was disappointed with Gujarat's snub, the veteran spinner said he took it positively as he never lost hope to play in the IPL again. "It's a part and parcel of every sportsperson's life. I have never taken such things negatively. I played seven matches for Gujarat last season and did well apart from maybe one or two matches, which is inevitable especially in the T20 format," he added.
 
 Interestingly , Tambe ­ who is just a few months shy of turning 46 - will be making his List 'A' debut if he is picked in the Mumbai playing XI for their opening game against defending champions Gujarat at Chepauk on Saturday .
 
 "I was selected in the Mumbai squad for the Vijay Hazare knockouts back in 2013, but I didn't get to play and we lost that game. I have performed well for both Mumbai and West Zone in the T20s recently. So I am hoping to play this time around," Tambe said.
 
 Ever since Tambe's entry into the limelight courtesy his IPL exploits, he has been pigeonholed as a T20 bowler and has played only a couple of Ranji games for the 41time domestic champions. Tambe, though, enjoys playing the five-day format as much as the shorter formats.
 
 "I enjoy the longer format as much as the shorter formats. But I have got most of my chances only in the T20 format. I cannot do anything about it," he said.
 
 While Tambe is certainly not getting any younger, there might still be a faint chance of him adding to his two first-class appearances considering the fact that he is in no mood to hang up his boots. "Only when you keep saying that I'm 45, am I reminded of my age. Otherwise, I don't think about it. I feel I am extremely fit and can do all the things on the field that are required. Till the time that I am enjoying the game, I will keep playing," Tambe signed off.
 
