CHENNAI: A 42-year-old woman committed suicide in front of her   residence on Sunday evening, with her family alleging it happened after police came to arrest her husband and son and harassed her. 

 Police identified the deceased woman as M   and said her husband Mohan was a history-sheeter.
 
 The couple's children Priyanka, 24, Pradeep, 19, Sanjay, 17, and Sneha, 16, lodged a complaint with city police commissioner   demanding action against the erring police personnel.
 
 The family had been living in a slum clearance board apartment on   in Chintadripet and shifted to   a year ago after police came looking for her husband frequently, said one of the victim's daughters. Mohan runs a cable TV business in Mylapore.
 
 Padmavathy, her daughter said, on Sunday received a call from her tenant that the Chintadripet police station had come searching for her husband and son. Padmavathy rushed to the Chintadripet building where her mother was also staying. Sub-inspector Kumar then questioned her about the whereabouts of Mohan, her daughter said.
 
 "Though my mother told him she did not know my father's whereabouts, he hurled abuses. He asked one of our tenants to vacate the house, saying he may also face arrest," said her daughter.
 
 Padmavathy ran into her mother's house, brought out a can of kerosene, poured its contents over herself and set herself on fire. A few residents of the complex rushed her to   where she died on Monday afternoon.
 
 Ezhumalai, a neighbour, said, "The family shifted to Mylapore after police kept picking up her son and husband for questioning in crime cases." Padmavathy insisted that they move out considering her son's future, he said.
 
 The entire family had participated in the recent pro-jallikattu protests in the city and this may have provoked the policemen to target them, he said.
 
 When contacted, a senior police officer said Mohan was a history-sheeter and his son Pradeep was also into committing petty offences. He, however, denied harassing the woman. "We received an alert that a rival gang was planning to murder Mohan's son, which forced us to look for Pradeep and make a preventive arrest," he said.
 
 
