NEW DELHI: Seven years after they were accused of gang-raping an MBA student of Amity University in Noida, a Delhi court acquitted nine men on Thursday for lack of evidence.
Of the 11 accused in the case, one died during the trial and another was not produced in court as he was a juvenile at the time of the offence.
 
 The survivor, who shifted to the UK later, had claimed that she was raped by the men while returning from a mall in Noida with her friend on January 5, 2009.
 
 She had alleged that their car was stopped by the 11 youths who then drove it around and raped her.
 
 Special judge Shail Jain freed the accused, saying there was lack of evidence against them. A detailed copy of the judgment is awaited. According to the prose cution, the girl and her male friend were returning in their car when they were forcibly stopped by 11 youths brandishing cricket bats. She alleged that once they stopped the car, the accused got in and drove it around Noida's Garhi Chaukhandi village and raped her one by one.The complaint was lodged with the   by the victim's friend.
 
 The accused in the case were Pushpender alias Tuiyan, Srikant, Sanjay , Gautam, Sudhir, Little, Omkar and Pushpender, Sashikant, Golu and a juvenile, all residents of Garhi Chaukhandi. Pushpinder alias Tuiyan died during trial. The accused were all on bail.
 
 The trial was shifted from a Noida court to   in Delhi on  's orders after the victim's friend approached the apex court saying there was a threat to his life. He also told the court that he was being pressured to withdraw the case.
 
 Advocate Pradeep Sharma, who appeared for some of the accused, welcomed the judgment and said his clients were falsely implicated in the case.
 
 In 2012, the survivor had identified 10 of the accused as those who raped her.In her testimony , the survivor also denied allegations by the accused that she had levelled fake rape charges because the local villagers had spotted the duo in a compromising position in the car and beaten them up.
 
