Gorakhpur: Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, on Friday, praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for completion of three successful years of NDA government with its policy of ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas’ and setting new milestones for development.   called him as a global leader and praised him for taking India forward on path of becoming a super power. The CM urged the BJP workers to get ready for 2019 Lok Sabha. He also showed a book titled ‘Sabka saath sabka vikas’ and asked workers to popularise it so that everyone could be aware of the policies of the government and derive benefits. 

 Praising the PM, Yogi said that it is the first time that the country has got ‘Janta ki sarkar’(people’s government), which works without discrimination for people of all religions, caste and creed. “It seems that people have got a government which is working for them irrespective of religion, caste and creed. The initiatives like ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padao’ have been successful in filling the gap between male-female ratio. After 40 years of demand, the PM implemented ‘one rank one pension scheme’. With Skill India scheme, PM is helping the youth of the country in becoming financially independent,” Yogi said.
 
 The CM said that policies and schemes of NDA government has helped the farmers, labourers, housewives and all sections of the society. Jan Dhan Yojna helped 25-30 crore people to have bank accounts, Rs 5,000 credit and Rs 2 lakh insurance. Cooking gas reached to poor man’s kitchen under Ujjawala Yojna. As many as 2.5 lakh SC/ST youth moved towards financial independence under ‘stand-up start-up policy’. Jeewan Suraksha Jeewan Jyoti gave Rs 4 lakh shield on saving only Rs 1 per day. Farmers are benefited by the crop insurance policy, soil testing scheme and irrigation policy, Yogi said. 
 
 Yogi claimed that by 2021, people will be able to get pure Ganga dip at Sangam. “The PM has focussed on cleaning of Ganga and allocated Rs 20,000 crore for Namami Gange scheme. The NDA government has given a clean administration, with no graft charges on ministers or leaders in past three years,” he said. 
 
 Asking the party workers to help people below poverty line get free power connection on the lines of Ujjawala scheme, the CM said that Centre was extending full help to state government in electrification of villages. “Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, Centre is planning to build 27 lakh houses for poor and in UP. Work on five lakh such houses will begin from this month,” he added. 
 
 Citing the example of cut in prices of coronary stents used in heart surgery, the CM said: “Revolutionary changes have been brought in health services to benefit common man. The stents, which were earlier sold between 1.5 lakh to 1.25 lakh, will now be available between Rs 30,000 and Rs 33,000. As many as 1,000 Jan Aushadhi Kendra (medicine centres) selling 10 times cheaper medicine will be set up at government hospitals, CHCs and PHCs.”
 
 In a first, 150 life supporting ambulances, equipped with ventilators, have been initiated in the state, with two in each district to help save life till patients being taken to hospitals, Yogi said.
 
 Under Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojna, plans are afoot to connect hilly areas and villages with population of 500 by road. Yogi said that he has proposed the same for villages inhabited by 250 people.
 
 
