LUCKNOW:There is more inconvenience in store for commuters as there is no word from either the   or the   on when the Gomti   would reopen for traffic movement. The route was closed six months ago to facilitate construction of huge trunk drains beneath the bridge along Gomti’s banks. 

 It is one of the busiest roads in the city connecting Gomtinagar to Cantonment area and is used frequently by residents of Dalibagh, Jopling Road, Rana Pratap Marg and those coming from Ashok Marg to reach Lohia Path. The SP government had proposed to beautify banks of Gomti and clean its water under the   project. 
 
 Though water was cleaned along the 14km stretch, two parallel trunk drains were also made along riversides to prevent further flow of sewage into the river. Their construction required heavy tunnel work under the bridge which led to deep cracks on the barrage road. The construction caused caving in of the approach road near Samta Mulak Crossing while the erstwhile irrigation department’s office on the other end was damaged too. 
 
 To avoid accidents, irrigation department closed the route on December 10, 2016 and diverted traffic through Samta Mulak Crossing. People coming from Dalibagh or Balu Adda crossing now reach Samta Mulak via 1090 crossing and the commuting time has doubled, also because of the hectic congestion around these two crossings for most part of the day. 
 
 The contractor has already missed three deadlines since the route closed. Irrigation department claims the work has been moving at a snail’s pace since February because of elections. Irrigation department officials said, “We have given repeated reminders to the contractor but there is no response. The work is suffering because of his disinterest. We have given final warning to compete the work by June, or face strict action.”
 
 The irrigation department’s worry to fix road before monsoon is understandable as rains will cause more damage to an already broken road. The contractor claims the work is hampered because of nonpayment of bills by the department. He told TOI, “We have completed work on both sides of the drain and only 5metre stretch is left to be repaired. If we get the funds, we will make the route ready to open in 15 days.” 
 
