GUWAHATI: A retired junior commissioned officer (JCO) of the  , who was posted in Secunderabad, Gurdaspur, Chandigarh, Kota, Tawang and   during his 30-year-long service, has been asked to prove his Indian citizenship and show that he is not an illegal immigrant from Bangladesh.

 A foreigners’ tribunal, set up by the   government to identify illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, has sent a notice to Kamrup-based Azmal Haque, who retired as a JCO last year after serving the Army for 30 years, asking him to prove his Indian citizenship.
 
 The notice said that Haque had entered the country without valid papers after March 25, 1971, the cutoff date for being eligible for Indian citizenship under the Assam Accord, and so he needed to prove that he was an Indian.
 
 Haque, 49, had joined the Army’s engineering corps in 1986 and retired on September 30 in 2016.
 
 “Is this what I have to suffer after serving the country? We had taken a pledge to give our best for the country under any circumstances. There was a series of police verifications before I was inducted into the Army. I am ready to prove my Indian nationality,” an emotional Azmal told TOIon Sunday.
 
 “This is nothing but harassment. I am ready to fight my cause,” he added. In 2012, the foreigners’ tribunals had asked Haque’s wife Mamataj Khanam to prove her nationality, which she did.
 
 “In 2012, I was posted in Chandigarh when the court had served a notice to my wife.
 
 “I had to take leave and come to Assam to sort it out. It was mentioned that Mamataj was my wife and no questions were asked about my nationality then,” said Haque.
 
 Haque’s son studies at the Rashtriya Indian Military College, the country’s premier institution which acts as feeder to the defence services, and his daughter is in the   at Narengi here.
 
 The Army has decided to stand by Haque. Defense PRO Lt Col Suneet Newton told TOI, “We have learnt about the matter and we are looking into the details. Required assistance will be provided to the individual.”
 
