I am surprised and shocked. And very sad. The entire day (Tuesday) I saw different politicians speak about the  . I do not understand politics. I am sad that I could not save all the passengers in my bus. I will never be able to come to terms with the 
  though I could save over 50 people and take the bus to a safe spot. Those who escaped with minor injuries later came up to me and thanked me.

 A lot of them said, “Salimbhai aapko salaam”. “Bhaijaan, you saved our lives,” they told me. But I could not respond because the sight of blood and death had left me scared. It was only after about 90 minutes after the terror attack that I could really take stock of what was happening. Today, the honourable Chief Minister also spoke to me when we met at Surat airport. I am told I will be 
  . To be honest, it was Harshbhai, seated in the cleaner’s seat who told me not to stop the bus and move fast. He was the one who advised me to duck.
 
 So after the first few bullets, I lay on the floor. I did not know where the bus was going, but kept my hand on the steering wheel. Harshbhai, meanwhile, fell to the bullets that I would have received had I not crouched. I am an Indian. And I am proud to be one. Like most Indians I know, I don’t understand politics. I would want shanti in our country so that people like me can earn their salary in peace. In Valsad, we do not discriminate. That is why I was in Amarnath. And that is why I have been in Amarnath at least four times before.
 
 My Maalik saved my life. Allah and Shivji perhaps guided me. I am not an intelligent person. I do not know from where I gathered courage. I had also gone for darshan to Amarnath and got prasad which I was carrying back home for my family. I am not educated or enlightened to comment like politicians, eminent citizens or the media on whatever is happening in the country. All I can say is that I am an Indian and proud of it. I was very scared. For a few seconds, I thought it was a stone that was hurled at the right-side window.
 
 But soon, I realised these were bullets. All of them were coming in from the right side. I think that within two seconds there were over 40 bullets piercing through the right side of the bus that I was driving. It had been a long day. A puncture had delayed us by over two hours and twenty minutes. This was after 8 pm and most of the passengers were sleeping. Harshbhai, the son of the bus owner, was seated on the cleaner’s seat. As soon as they began firing bullets, he asked me to lie down. His presence of mind was phenomenal.
 
 Maalik, bhagwan, suddenly gave me courage. 
  . There was some agitation among the passengers, too. While I was driving and the bullets kept coming in a lot of passengers started screaming and giving instructions. I however tried to concentrate as Maalik was guiding me. After about two kilometres, I saw the presence of armymen. I stopped the bus and rushed to tell them what had happened. They were very helpful. They gave me and the passengers courage and moral support. We had seven deaths and several injuries.
 
 The military personnel made us feel safe. People came and told me, “Salimbhai Salaam”. But I have to tell you that the military was very co-operative. And brave. In fact, they also took down my cell number and name. They have assured me they will soon get the terrorists who attacked my bus. In fact, the officer sir told me that he will call me on my cellphone when they get the terrorists. I will come to know before you (media) find out when the terrorists responsible for the attack are nabbed by our military. Behnji, when death or bullet comes, they do not see any one’s religion.
 
 They just come. And when they come, you don’t think of religion. All you think of is saving your life, saving others and helping them during such crisis. I didn’t even thank Maalik because I was sad to see so much violence and blood. And that we had lost seven members. May Maalik bestow peace. My family is glad that I am back home alive. To be honest, my dharma and iman is my job. If Allah and Shivji desire, I will go back to Amarnath. Again. I don’t know yet. I didn’t know till the terror attack happened. I don’t know how life works. 
 
 
 I am about 55. At least for the past 45-48 years, I have been a staunch Shiv bhakt. That is why it felt divine when I got a chance to visit Amarnath. I was travelling with my husband Rajendra Mistry. I first thought someone was throwing stones at the bus. I had exchanged seats with someone so I missed the bullets. I am not injured and I am home. My son Parthav is looking after me. But I am terribly shocked. All I can say is that last night, Salimbhai became the Shivji, my bhagwan. He saved my life. Now the few years that I live, I will consider Salimbhai my bhagwan.
 
 God has no religion. Salimbhai is Shankar bhagwan for me and for several of us. May God bless him and his family. I would want to personally meet him and thank him some day in my life. Today I was praying to God for saving my husband and my life along with other tourists. While praying, Salimbhai’s face came to my mind. I thanked him from my heart, said Bhavnaben Mistry, tourist on the bus that was attacked.
 
 
 
 
