NEW DELHI: Telecom Regulatory Authority of India ( ) chairman   has said a section of telcos was making “too much of noise”, while dismissing their demand that the interconnect usage charge (IUC) be fixed as the minimum price of a voice call.
 
  Incumbent telcos — Bharti  ,   India and Idea Cellular — have told the regulator that IUC of 14 paise a minute should be taken as the floor for retail voice tariffs, and that   Infocomm’s free voice call offer should be banned.
  
  “There is too much of noise saying that the regulator must fix the minimum price. I don’t think that’s really a correct thing to do for a regulator. The price is under forbearance; both the top and bottom should be under forbearance.
  
  It cannot be that for customers you can raise as much as you want, but you can’t take it below a certain threshold,” Sharma told ET.
  
  IUC is the charge paid by a caller’s operator to the receiving party’s operator. Jio’s free voice and data offers had helped the new entrant notch up 100 million subscribers in 170 days since its launch in early September.
  
  Since April 1, Jio has started charging for data but it has promised free voice calls for life for its customers, adversely impacting established competitors, who still earn 80% of revenues from voice.
  
  Sharma said Trai believes that unnecessary interventions don’t help. “In the long run, there should be a minimalistic intervention and regulation.”
  
  Asked to comment on the slew of accusations and counter accusations being levelled by Jio and the incumbent telcos at each other, Sharma said there was competition in the industry.
  
  “Sometimes it becomes a little shriller than what it should be, which seems to be the case here,” he added.
  
  Trai has been accused by incumbent telcos of being biased in favour of Jio, an allegation the regulator has strongly denied.
  
  The telecom department had also waded into the controversy a few months ago when it blamed the sectoral watchdog for what it said was the deteriorating health of the sector.
  
  Sharma, however, said the overall health of the telecom sector was the primary concern of Trai.
  
  “The telecom industry is very mature, vibrant, competitive, which is a good thing. I trust the wisdom of the players in this space, they’re mature enough to realise what is in their long-term interest,” he added.
  
  Trai is currently in the midst of a slew of consultation processes, including one on the globally critical issue of net neutrality, a concept which guarantees a free and unbiased access to the Internet for all.
  
  Sharma said Trai will hold at least three open house discussions and consult experts and academicians on what is globally a hotly debated subject and come out with its recommendations by the first half of July.
  
  “When we make recommendations, we will certainly be cognizant of what is being done internationally but at the same time, we will make appropriate recommendations which are good for our country,” Sharma said, when asked to comment on the fact that the US is relooking its policy on net neutrality under the new regime.
  
  Trai will, within a couple of months, also start a consultation process on the pricing of 4G and 5G spectrum for the next round of auctions, after a reference sent by the government.
  
  He said that while the right time for auctions would be determined through the consultation process, a sale was possible this fiscal year, which ends on March 31, 2017.
  
  “It (auctions) can happen (this FY). We will certainly give our (pricing) recommendations before December,” Sharma said, adding the regulator will carry out a fresh consultative process on the pricing of all bands, including the coveted 700 MHz band used for 4G which went unsold in the last auction due to high reserve price.
  
  Sharma said the regulator was open to taking a relook at the base price. “Everything is on the table, including the reserve price of various spectrum bands,” he said.
