KOLAR/BENGALURU: The state government’s plan to use the Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) to make big bucks by processing waste generated in Bengaluru has drawn the wrath of the opposition and the miners’ community, who are striving to reopen the   (BGML).

 On Monday, the furore spilled onto the streets, with the BJP calling a KGF bandh, and getting into an altercation with pro-government Congress workers.
 
 Over the last few days, both BJP and Congress have engaged in mudslinging over the issue of garbage from Bengaluru being dumped at KGF. Reports suggest that some 1,000 acres of land has been identified near Marikuppam in KGF for this purpose.
 
 Soon after Kenche Gowda, chairman of   (KCDC), reportedly said waste from Bengaluru will be dumped near Marikuppam, the BJP, under the banner of ‘Save KGF’, launched an agitation against the proposed move and called for Monday’s bandh. The strike was total, with almost all vehicles, including private buses and autorickshaws, staying off the roads. Many educational institutions too were shut for the day. Tension prevailed near   in Robertsonpet, where BJP and Congress workers came to blows during a protest rally called by the former. Police had to step in to disperse the rival groups. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Robertsonpet city municipality commissioner A L Srikanth said that so far they hadn’t received any official communication about the proposal to dump garbage at KGF. “The civic body doesn’t have land to accommodate garbage from Bengaluru,” he said. 
 
 However, a senior KCDC official confirmed the proposal to identify waste parks around Bengaluru, and use them to process garbage. As part of this proposal, the KCDC official said 1,000 acres of state government-owned land has been identified in Marikuppam of Kolar and Madhugiri of Tumakuru. 
 
 When asked about opposition from miners, the official said: “There’s a misconception that we are planning to dump waste in these areas. Our plan is to set up a processing unit, and there won’t be any hazard to the environment. Private parties will be invited to invest in the state-of-the-art waste processing technology.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Kolar district-in-charge minister K R   said he was unaware of any such development. 
 
