NEW DELHI:   veteran Yashwant Sinha’s attack on finance minister   for mismanaging the economy marks a very public breakup of their relations that once saw Jaitley defending the senior leader against a determined opposition attack over the UTI scandal in 2001.

 The NDA government led by A B Vajpayee was under fire for the collapse of Unit Trust of India’s (UTI’s) iconic US 64 fund with   neta Priya Ranjan Dasmunshi leading a strong attack on Sinha who was then finance minister. “The finance minister totally denied his responsibility as if he was unaware of the development in UTI and was not in knowledge of what had happened,” Dasmunshi had told  .
 
 The matter was serious and middle-class investors, seen as a core constituency of BJP, had lost millions due to injudicious investments by UTI and the government faced flak for poor supervision.
 
 Responding to the demand for Sinha’s resignation, Jaitley, then minister for law and justice and company affairs, said UTI was managed on commercial considerations and its board was an autonomous independent body.
 
 Jaitley argued the problem went back to 1998 when UTI started declaring dividends not in consonance with profits and began to eat into reserves. “In June 1998 when this problem arose, US 64 had become a negative network scheme,” he said.
 
 Jaitley pointed out that the Sensex stood at 4,241 but on March 13, the day the Tehelka tapes exposure broke, it dipped to 3,540. UTI lost between 20-25% and he said the nature of decisions needed to be examined.
 
 “The Unit Trust of India, a large body where the Reserve Bank of India, IDBI and everybody is represented, is wrong. They may be bona fide and yet erroneous,” he said. Jaitley said he was sure Sinha would deal with the questions and resolve UTI’s issues.
 
 If the government were to start interfering, it would set an unhealthy precedent though investor protection was its responsibility. Sinha said he’d explain a roadmap to secure investor interest, and suggested that the discussion consider options to revive UTI.
 
