Both   and  , who will be seen playing the lead roles in the upcoming show Aisi Deewangi Dekhi Nahi Kahin, hail from Rajasthan.When AT took these actors to the Laxmi Vilas Palace for a photo-shoot during their recent trip to Vadodara, they seemed quite awestruck.Jyoti told us, “I was amazed when I was told that the front side of this grand palace combines the architecture of different faiths. It's such a lovely thought, no?“ Pranav chipped in, “I was told that some big-budget Bollywood films have been shot here and I would love to shoot here someday .“ These two telly town newcomers were in the state to promote their show along with veteran actors Rasik Dave and Seema Bora. Interestingly , a significant part of this show, which is set in Gujarat, has been shot extensively at locations like Rajpipla and the actors told us that the overall experience was quite fabulous.
 
  FAB FOOD, MASTI AND MORE
  
  The actors say that shooting at the Rajpipla Palace was an unforgettable experience.Pranav shares, “ At times, we shot for around 15 to 17 hours in a day and the outdoor shoots would be tiring. But the locals were very helpful and even the royal family treated us really well.“ Adds Jyoti, “I am a huge foodie and no matter which city I travel to, I love trying out street food.There were a couple of golgappa outlets right outside our hotel in Rajpipla, and I vis ited both of them every day without fail. And since Rasik (Dave) sir is a Gujarati, we got treated to some authentic Gujarati food on the sets. I loved gorging on khakhras, fafda and jalebis!“ Seema Bora, who hails from Nainital, adds, “When I was living in Delhi, I didn't have much idea about Gujarat and its people. But I have got to know several Gujaratis after shifting to Mumbai and it has been a real pleasure. Gujaratis are really helpful and know how to enjoy life.“
  
  YOU WANT TO KEEP COMING BACK TO GUJARAT
  
  Rasik Dave, who is a big name in Gujarati theatre, says that he just can't stay away from Gujarat, “I have been born and brought up in Mumbai but even today, whenever I come up with a new play, the entire experience feels incomplete un less we perform it in Gujarat. I visit Vadodara almost every month and all my plays have about eight to 12 shows, as audiences really value good plays.“ Adds Pranav, “I have visited Gujarat earlier for a documentary film which was made by the Akshardham Temple authorities, and the entire experience was really memorable. Back then, I never knew I would shoot for a TV show in the state.“
  
  AUDIENCE NEEDS TO DISCOURAGE BAD GUJARATI FILMS AND PLAYS
  
  As someone asked Rasik Dave about Gujarati plays with double-meaning dialogues doing well in the state, he shot back, “If one watches such comedies, the makers will obviously continue making them. The audiences need to encourage those who come up with good plays in the state. Look at the kind of good work that people like Saumya Joshi are doing. We need a lot more plays like 102 Not Out.“ So is he game for taking up a Gujarati film in future? In his inimitable style, Dave responds, “I am glad that there is a positive buzz about the Gujarati film industry and while a handful of good films have been made, I am very selective when it comes to TV and films. Unless a role really excites me, I will not do a Gujarati film just for the sake of money .
