GURUGRAM: Every couple has a story about how they encountered the initial jitters they encounter on learning about their pregnancy. Nurturing, soothing, and protecting your infants, and taking utmost care of  ,   and other uncharted territories are important aspects to give your children an absolutely best start to their lives and also in ensuring they grow up as emotionally capable adults.

 As wonderful it is to bring home a newborn, the birth of a baby is the biggest challenge couples face, especially those in the  . Lack of sleep, little or no sex, and conflict over evolving new roles are some of the major challenges new parents are faced with. Doctors agree that these problems are surmountable and the only strategy that can solve them is communication. However, support groups can help them in cope with the situation. On Sunday, “Columbia Venus – Parent Craft” a pregnancy support program was attended by 30 couples who learnt how to enjoy the experience of childbirth, while everything else is taken care of.
 
 Dr Amita Shah, Senior Consultant and Coordinator, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Columbia Asia Hospital said that “The holistic birth classes takes patients right from the preconception phase, all along through their antenatal period and then the post-delivery phase too. The intent and motive of these workshops is to motivate parents to have a Normal Delivery, by preparing them psychologically as well as physically”.
 
 Myths associated with childbirth, and breastfeeding are busted, fears are allayed and scientific inputs are given for the same.
 
 “Pre-conception counselling sessions with our patients, prepare them for parenthood, guide them with all relevant investigation. Post-delivery counselling sessions are also done for the new mothers, helping them to deal with postpartum blues, taking care of their babies and how to get back into shape,” said Dr Jagpreet Bhatia, Paediatrician, Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurugram.
  
 “As nutrition requirement is on higher side, due to changes in the pregnant woman's body and the fetus growth. The energy requirement is additional 350kcal a day and additional protein requirement is 24gm a day. The diet includes milk and milk products, green leafy vegetables, pulses, fruits in the daily diet. Dry fruits and nuts are too a good sources of of Vitamin E, calcium, energy & protein,” said Dr Shalini Bliss- Consultant, Nutritionist.
 
