SILIGURI/DARJEELING: Defence minister   on Sunday said it was the government’s prerogative to decide who would go where on Indian soil.

 Parrikar’s remarks at Bagdogra airport followed Chinese concern over the Dalai Lama’s proposed visit to Arunachal Pradesh in April. Beijing had said the trip would damage bilateral relations and warned New Delhi not to provide the Tibetan spiritual leader a platform for anti-China activities. Minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju, who is from Arunachal, is to meet the Dalai Lama during the visit.
 
 Speaking on nationalism, which is in the news after the recent Delhi University row, Parrikar said: “Education teaches you nationalism. Those who are not properly educated will not understand it. One should be loyal to their country. The world knows how a person without loyalty towards their nation is treated. I only have to say that when you live in this country and eat what it offers, then you should be loyal.”
 
 Parrikar was in Darjeeling to inaugurate a newly constructed building of Rama Krishna Siksha Parishad Model School built by   using central funds.
 
 Promising that the Centre would fulfil all needs of the Army deployed in this region, he said: “The Army has an important role to play in Sikkim and North Bengal that share borders with China, Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan. Though the area is small, it is strategically very important.”
 
 Parrikar said the instrumental landing system (ILS) at Bagdogra airport would boost its capacity. Once ILS is fully operational, the airport will function technically for 24 hours and operationally for 16 hours. The number of flights will be doubled as the problem of visibility will disappear.
 
 Parrikar also promised to resolve land problems for extension of the airport. “The Centre will speak with the Bengal government about it,” he said. Bagdogra airport is controlled by the Air Force.
 
 In Darjeeling, with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) president Bimal Gurung by his side, Parrikar avoided giving a direct reply on the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland. GJM, its youth wing and ex-servicemen owing allegiance to GJM submitted a memorandum to Parikkar with the demand. He said he would brief the Centre about the seriousness of the issue. “I will give a full briefing to the home ministry as the issue is in its jurisdiction.”
 
 
