PATNA: The   ( ) will probe the case of Muzaffarpur boy  , whose marksheet of the Class XII examination held in February-March last year has the ‘Marks Obtained’ column blank.
 
  On the day TOI reported the yearlong ordeal of the L P Shahi Intermediate College-Patahi student, BSEB chairman   said strict action would be taken against the concerned if the BSEB was responsible for the error.
  
  “As of now, however, one cannot rule out the possibility of a mistake on the part of the student,” the   officer told this newspaper on Monday, adding the case would be investigated.
  
  Incidentally, Deepak’s is not a solitary case. Results of at least 42 examinees are pending even a year after they wrote the Class X examination conducted by the BSEB in 2016. There were several such cases involving Class XII examinees as well.
  
  “Pending cases constitute just 0.01% of total examinees... In many cases, we detected mistakes on the part of students. They had given incorrect roll number or roll code on the answer sheets,” the chairman said, pleading helplessness to disclose the number of pending Class XII cases offhand.
  
  Kishor’s claims apart, BSEB sources admitted lack of a policy to resolve such issues. They also said some of such harried students get trapped by middlemen who make false promises of getting the problem solved.
  
  The chairman claimed the BSEB was seized of the issue. “We will soon launch an online grievance redressal facility... Complaints uploaded to our website will be disposed of within a time frame. In case of delay, the matter can be referred to an appellate cell headed by a senior BSEB official,” he said and added, in response to a query, the online grievance redressal arrangements would be in place within four months.
  
  Meanwhile, Kishor said the BSEB has decided to open a computerised centre each to assist students in every district to fill up their examination forms properly.
  
  The BSEB introduced the system of online submission of forms for the Class X and XII examinees from 2017. In many cases, schools and intermediate colleges arranged help for their students, but many others had to run to the cybercafé for the purpose.
  
  “When we had the manual system till last year, the data had to be keyed-in by an operator who was paid against the number of entries he handled. As he would be in a hurry to handle maximum number of cases, he would make spelling or numerical errors,” Kishor recalled and added now the forms would be filled online at a centralised venue in every district and students given a hard copy of the completed form to verify the same within a given time after which the submission would be made.
