NEW DELHI: Bijnor, the gateway to scenic Uttarakhand, has been on the map of the central security agencies’ counter-terrorism operations for a long time. The district shot to infamy for its deep connections with fugitive Dawood Ibrahim’s syndicate in 1994 when a close associate of Dawood, Mohammad Salim Mira, also known as Salim Kutta, was arrested from a village here and a large cache of sophisticated weapons were recovered from him at that time.

  Over the years, many incidents here have led security agencies to believe that the region has emerged as a hub of jihadi bomb-making. Many local youths were found to have been influenced by al-Qaida’s   literature and some of them were even caught trying to put together explosive devices. 
 
  The first major catch in this direction was made in June 2007 when UP Police arrested two Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HuJI) terrorists along with seven kilograms of RDX, six detonators, five watches including three improvised watches equipped with timer wire, two batteries and a switch remote. The duo, identified as Mohammed Yaqub and Nasir, both residents of Bijnor, were reportedly trained in Pakistan and wanted to carry out blasts at railway stations, bus stands and religious structures in various parts of the country.
 
  In August 2015, Gujarat ATS arrested Ishtiyak Ahmed Ansari, a close aide of   and an accused involved in the Gosabara (Gujarat) RDX and arms landing case of 1993, from Kiratpur in Bijnor. According to the investigators, Ansari was part of a conspiracy in which Dawood Ibrahim allegedly sent a huge cache of RDX explosive and other arms, including AK-47 rifles, from Karachi in Pakistan through the sea route to Gujarat in 1993.
 
  A low-intensity blast in city kotwali area of Bijnor on September 12, 2014 led cops to a house, owned by an 80-year-old, Neelo Devi, who rented it to one Sheikh Mehboob, who too had suffered burns on the face and hands in the blast. The ATS which probed the case had found that the blast occurred while the accused were assembling a timer device. After the blast, police recovered a large quantity of matchsticks, explosives, half-assembled bombs, a laptop, a .32 calibre pistol, three voter ID cards bearing Hindu names and two Urdu books. The house owner told cops that the three youths stayed in the house while another three were there at the time of the blast.
 
  The accused, identified as Sheikh Mehboob alias Gudoo alias Malik (25), Amjad alias Pappu alias Daud (25), Zakir Hussain alias Sadiq (32) and Mohammad Salik alias Sallu, were later killed in an encounter with Madhya Pradesh police in November 2016. Another two, Mohammad Aizazuddin and Mohammad Aslam, had died in a police encounter in Telangana in April 2015. All of them were SIMI operatives.
 
  In a multi-state joint operation in April 2017 again, the police teams of Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh, arrested four suspected terrorists belonging to the Islamic State’s Khorasan module and detained six others. Two of them, identified as Mufti Faizan and Tanveer, allegedly connected with the ISIS, were arrested from Bijnor.
