A 37-year-old   from Hadapsar was recently honeytrapped into parting with over Rs 11 lakh by  . A   and got in touch with the victim on a  , asking for help during her travel to India. A few months into their interaction, she contacted him saying she had been detained by customs officials and he needed to bail her out with money. But, once he did, she severed all contact.

 That is how the IT professional figured out that he had been duped and approached the police. The Solapur Road resident filed an application with the cybercrime cell of Pune police. Based on that application, a case was registered at Hadapsar police station on Monday. Cops have slapped charges of cheating under sections 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant sections of the IT Act against the woman, identified as Sandra Robinson.
 
 Inspector (Crime) Anjum Bagwan of Hadapsar police station, who is investigating the case, told Pune Mirror, “In September last year, the victim got a friend request on Facebook from someone called Sandra. He accepted the request and they began chatting regularly. The woman told the victim that she is a resident of London and asked him to share his mobile number. The victim believed her and shared his contact number. After that, they would often have conversations over the phone. In December, the woman told the victim that she wanted to travel to India as she likes the country, and asked him to be her guardian once there.”
 
 The very same month, the victim got a call from a Delhi number, where a person introduced himself as a customs official from the Delhi airport. “The man told the victim that they have detained Sandra at the Delhi airport as she had lost some of her documents. The official also told him that the woman was carrying multiple smartphones, laptops, diamond jewellery and some foreign currency with her. He asked the victim to deposit some amount of money if she was to be released. When the victim spoke to the woman, she started crying. So, he deposited around Rs 35,000 into the bank account given by the man,” Bagwan added.
 
 But, after paying the amount, he got a call from the man again, saying that they would require more money for her release. The victim deposited a total of Rs 11,43,500 in different bank accounts through multiple transactions. “When there was no reply from the woman even after paying the amount, the man got suspicious. On digging deeper, he realised that it was a honey trap. Based on the account numbers given by the victim to us, we found that these bank accounts are from various parts of the country. We are now taking the help of the cybercrime cell to trace the fraudsters,” the inspector revealed.
 
 
 The man told the victim that they have detained Sandra at the Delhi airport as she had lost some of her documents. He asked the victim to deposit some amount of money if she was to be released
 
 — Inspector Anjum Bagwan, Hadapsar PS
 
 
