Urjit Patel's appointment last year as Governor of the Reserve Bank of India was greeted with some scepticism and surprise. Here was a guy so extremely low profile that he hardly spoke in public. Hardly gave any interviews. Apart from a few people in  , nobody seemed to know him.
 
  Tongues started wagging that this was the   government’s way to keep media and financial markets at bay. Appoint a low-profile governor who wouldn’t talk much and feed juicy quotes about the state of the economy and politics. Former Governor   may have enjoyed excellent rapport with prime minister Modi but there was no doubt that many ministers and bureaucrats in the administration were rankled by his frequent statements about the economy and the soundness of government policies.
  
  Patel’s image as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s man was strengthened by two unrelated events, coming one after another.
  
  The 25-bps rate cut in the October policy meet and the RBI board’s decision to approve the government’s request to pull out 86% of the currency notes in circulation on November 8. The first decision was praised but critics snickered that the governor is just fulfilling one of the government’s long-standing demands.
  
  The second was heavily criticised and the RBI came in for a lot of flak about the way the decision was implemented. The central bank was also panned for silently giving assent to the demonetisation move without any ‘protest’ or debate.
  
  Critics assumed, wrongly in my view, that the RBI governor and the board should have pushed back against demonetisation and stood up to the Modi government.
  
  As if the central bank can go against the government’s wishes when it is framing a critical national economic policy.
  
  Six months later, it appears that the RBI and   critics have to eat humble pie. The governor and the central bank have shown to be anything but fanboys or ‘yes’ men of the Modi government. The recent decisions of the monetary policy committee on asset quality show a certain ruthlessness, an unwillingness to compromise and a focused approach.
  
  Take monetary policy for instance. In December last year, at the peak of demonetisation-induced chaos, the RBI declined to cut rates. The decision shocked the markets and investors who were expecting a rate cut and possibly a substantial one. The monetary policy committee reasoned that it is better to wait for full and final effects of demonetisation to play out, and the available data actually show a mixed picture of the economy. Not a precipitous decline in growth as many doomsday critics argued.
  
  Two months later in February, the RBI sprung another shock. Against all expectations, the MPC changed the monetary policy stance from accommodative to neutral.
  
  Bombshell. Shock and awe. Not only were rate cut hopes dashed but the decision also meant that future cuts were not a certainty.
  
  As if this was not enough, April provided more examples of RBI’s steely determination to keep the pressure on the bad loan problem.
  
  Firstly, it ordered YES Bank and IndusInd Bank to provide for the bridge loan sanctioned to the Jaypee Group. This was bridge financing to the Delhi-based group till it receives money from UltraTech for the sale of cement plants announced last year. The RBI told the banks that they should provide for the loan as the transaction has not been concluded and the money has not been received.
  
  This is not all. All banks were then ordered to provide for telecom loans even if they are standard. In a stunning and possibly unprecedented development, banks were told to make provisions even if a client is making payments on time.
  
  There is enough uncertainty in the telecom sector, the RBI said, and banks should set aside money.
  
  In 2015, Raghuram Rajan shocked the entire country, financial markets, the government and corporate leaders by ordering banks to undertake massive asset quality reviews (AQR), and provide for dodgy, doubtful quality loans. Something which they were reluctant to do till then. This paved the way for massive losses to public and some private sector banks. Their share prices imploded and market capitalisation shrunk. It was a bloodbath.
  
  Under Rajan, the RBI set the stage for inflation targeting under a monetary policy committee and drastic action to force banks to provide for NPAs. All this was unprecedented in India. Urjit Patel was expected to provide some relief, by cutting rates and easing off on bank provisions on bad loans.
  
  What he has done so far is exactly the opposite. He has not diluted the focus on fighting inflation and nor has he eased off on provisions that banks may have to make on dodgy loans. All this can only be good for India’s fight against inflation and the fight against an easy credit culture. 
