PUNE: The customs authorities on Thursday arrested two men in connection with the   of seven “illegally imported” high-tech drones, collectively worth Rs 1.2 crore, on September 30 last year.

 The suspects, identified as Prateek Shrivastava and Saurav Mishra, were senior employees of Bavdhan-based  , an FDI firm, sources privy to the matter told TOI. 
 
 “While both of them were granted bail by a court on Friday, investigations have revealed that they had sold a   to a party in New Delhi, which had exported it to  ,” they said.
 
 “While Mishra was the managing director of Wabonise Private Limited, Shrivastava was working as a senior official looking after the marketing part of the company. It has come to light that the duo had floated a smaller company by the name of HeightsNext to divert the attention of the investigators,” the sources said. 
 
 The suspects were taken into custody soon after they appeared at the customs office around 7pm on Thursday. “Despite several summons, they had been evading physical presence before the customs officials citing medical reasons. They were produced before the court on Friday, which granted them bail on the condition that they will appear before the customs officials as and when required,” they said.
 
 How they were seized
 
 The drones were seized following a tip-off received by the customs authorities, which stated that the drones were being illegally imported from Canada into the country to be sold to various parties in New Delhi and Ahmedabad. Investigations initiated after that led officials to Amit Takta and Vikas Kumar. 
 
 “While Amit was an employee with Webonise, Vikas was with HeightsNext. Amit was arrested for illegally importing the drones and Vikas for concealing and selling these units,” sources said.
 
 “Customs officials had recovered three drones from the office of HeightsNext in Narhe, one from the residence of Vikas and one from the office of Webonise. Amit and Vikas were questioned and based on their information, a team went to Ahmedabad and recovered two more drones. All these are made by US company PrecisionHawk. Earlier, customs authorities were under the impression that HeightsNext was a benami company. However, now it has been revealed that the same men (Mishra and Shrivastava) had floated it just to create a diversion and fox the customs,” the official added.
 
 
