What’s most significant about Bengaluru is that it houses both cultural and historical landmarks and the high rises that add to its IT city tag with equal ease. It is no wonder that areas like Chamarajpet, which is home to many historical monuments and culturally significant landmarks, evoke as much interest among the city folk as the hotspots in the Central Business District do.   recently celebrated its 125th birthday with a procession that saw the participation of many folk artistes who displayed the rich dance forms of Karnataka like veeragase, dollu kunitha, yakshagana and hulivesha among others. The celebrations saw the participation of Bengaluru South MP Ananth Kumar and the   Royal family members, which included Pramoda Devi, along with the currently Mysuru king Yaduveer   and his wife Trishikha Kumari. Coincidentally, Chamarajpet happens to hold the distinction of being one of the earliest planned localities in Bengaluru. The locality, which saw its existence in 1892, has been named after the then Maharaja of Mysuru, Chamarajendra Wadiyar. Records state that it was originally named Chamarajendra Pete, but the name was then shortened over time to its current version — Chamarajpet.
The area is known for its cultural vibrancy and its emphasis on the importance of Kannada. In fact, the famous Fort High School Grounds here is home every year to the biggest musical extravaganza in Bengaluru during Ramanavami, which has seen the biggest names perform on that stage. The Kannada Sahitya Parishat is based out of Chamarajpet, as is the Vedanta Book Store, which has its own cult significance among bibliophiles.
 The area is also a rich amalgamation of people from different faiths. The Kote Venkateshwara Temple here is seen as one of the most powerful shrines in the city, while the Idgah Maidan in Chamarajpet is the place which sees some of the most vibrant celebrations of Eid festivities and prayers. 
 The Summer Palace of Tipu Sultan also is found in this locality, albeit there is the need for better upkeep of this historical landmark. 
 When it comes to recreation, the Makkala Koota Park is one of the most significant parks in South Bengaluru, while Chamarajpet has a dynamic street food culture. In fact, spaces like the Karnataka Bhel House are popular among both young and young at heart. 
 
