BHOPAL: In a special one-day session, the   assembly unanimously passed   2017 on Wednesday. It’s the fourth state to do so. 

 “GST will benefit small traders and entrepreneurs. The government has extended VAT relief to traders with an annual turnover of Rs 20 lakh. This will prove a big relief to small entrepreneurs, too. The government has offered the composition scheme to traders with annual turnover of Rs 50 lakh on paying one-time debt,” state finance minister Jayant Malaiya said while introducing the bill. It was passed by voice vote after a discussion. 
 
 When Congress benches tried to corner BJP, by saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposed the bill earlier and is now pushing for it, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan stepped in. Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh pointed out that the GST Bill was first drafted in 2004, and PM Modi, who was then chief minister of Gujarat opposed it, saying it will destroy the country. Intervening in the discussion, CM Chouhan said that during UPA regime the states had raised some issues, which were not solved or addressed by the Centre. Now, PM Modi has “cleared all doubts and accepted all the demands of the state governments”, which has resulted in a consensus over GST Bill. 
 
 Malaiya said the state GST Bill is a reflection of the central GST Bill which enables small traders and entrepreneurs to give one tax rather than 16-odd taxes. Registered traders will be eligible for input tax credit across the country which was so far restricted to purchase within the state, he added. “We have done the ground work to educate people about GST. Tax consultants and CAs have held more than 300 workshops across the state. We will set up a help centre in the department head office,” said the minister.
 
 Replying to a question from a legislator, Malaiya said GST Council has conducted 13 meetings with representatives of 31 states and 90 political parties. Every time there was consensus over decisions taken in the council, he said. “After implementation of GST, traders will have to file only one tax return through self-assessment. Inspection will be done on the basis of risk-break parameter,” said Malaiya.
 
 Opposition benches demanded that the government include liquor and petroleum products in GST slab and reduce tax on these goods. Congress raised objections to 55 corrections mentioned in the GST format. “The state government has prepared GST format in haste and is trying to get it passed in the House without any objection and debate. The GST concept was moved by Congress during UPA regime and BJP and allied parties opposed the Bill. Now, the same is being repeated, but Congress is supporting the Bill,” said Congress MLA from Sheopur, Ramnivas Rawat. The chief minister thanked the Opposition for unanimously clearing the bill.
 
