NEW DELHI: Investigations into the brutal assault on journalist Aparna   will mainly revolve around drug addicts and local criminals who throng the park after sunset to either consume smack or get together to plan a crime, police said.

 The weapon of offence, a big stone, is also indicative of the modus operandi adopted by the drug addicts to target walkers. However, the police are also looking at the possibility of Kalra falling on the stone and bleeding on it. The size of the wound will be matched with the stone to verify whether it was used in the attack.
 
 Around 50 smack addicts of the area, besides petty criminals, have been questioned and their whereabouts corroborated with the evidence. Those who were present in the area on Wednesday evening were shortlisted and interrogated at length.Extensive local inquiries are also being made by the special staff. The   has also been roped into the probe.
 
 “We are exploring all pos sible angles and several teams are working on available leads,“ said joint commissioner  .
 
 The police have not ruled out professional or personal rivalry. Robbery is not suspected to be the cause of the crime as the victim was brutally assaulted. Robbers usually don't resort to such violence unless they face stiff resistance. Also, Kalra was not carrying her phone or wallet and she did not have any money on her. However, given the fact that the robbers wouldn't know whether she was carrying any money or valuables, robbery as a motive has not been completely ruled out.
 
 Sources said the police are also looking at a stalker given the grievous nature of the assault, which indicates that someone may have wanted to harm her. Her call records are being scanned to ascertain if she was being stalked or harassed.
 
 Footage from CCTVs from the colonies outside the park is being scrubbed to ascertain the identity of people who frequented the area between 5.50pm and 6.30pm. There are no CCTV cameras installed inside the park. Cops hope to get some clues from electronic surveillance on the area, the details of which are being withheld.
 
 The three gardeners of the park who spotted her first have been questioned to recreate the scenario. There are no eyewitnesses to the crime.
 
