Veteran ghazal singer   needs no introduction. Having sung classics like  , Jiye To Jiye Kaise, Ahista and Na Kajre Ki Dhar, the ghazal singer from Gujarat has been a household name, thanks to his mesmerising voice. He also entered the indie music space with songs like Aur Ahista Kijiye Baatein. Pankaj was in the city recently and crooned some of his classics, much to the delight of his fans. He speaks to Chennai Times about his earliest memories in the city, ghazals not being part of Bollywood anymore and more…

 
 I have fond memories associated with the city — this place is very close to my heart. When I was in college, I had already started singing professionally. Once, I was invited to perform in Chennai — I think I was in my 20s then. That was my first visit to the city. I don’t remember the name of the auditorium — it was a small place and I performed a mix of ghazals and Bollywood songs.
 
 
 
 I have a huge body of work and sometimes, it becomes difficult to heed to all the requests that come from audience. I divide my shows in various segments — bring in popular numbers, followed by serious numbers and towards the end, I present a medley.
 
 
 
 I believe that such songs cannot be made every day. You cannot sit down to make such songs, they just happen. I was there when the song was created. I know precisely what has gone behind its making. Chithi Aayi Hai has got an evergreen status — it remains fresh even today. At one point, my father listened to Chithi Aayi Hai. I belong to the next generation — I, too, listen to it and enjoy it in the same way. The song released in August 1986, but even today when I meet children, the first song that they sing is this. The biggest surprise is that even now when I drive around in Mumbai, children surround my car and immediately start singing Chithi Aayi Hai. An entire generation has gone by, but people can still relate to this song.
 
 
 
 Music in India has taken a very sad turn. I feel there’s tremendous space in terms of creativity. There has been a time when I’ve sold cassettes in millions. I remember distinctly, audio labels used to tell me, ‘We have sold 5 million cassettes and 6 million CDs’. I have seen that aspect of business and we have also seen the popularity of non-film music. Today, the focus is only on Bollywood. There is no scope for young talents to explore the independent space and be popular outside of the film industry. Not just me, but many in the music world are all concerned about this trend. I have nothing against Bollywood, but other genres are unable to grow. There are so many kids who can do wonders with independent music, but lack that chance. It is not necessary that every child should become a playback singer. For example, Raghu Dixit has made a name for himself. If they are popular and can generate revenue, then audio labels will give them an opportunity and back their work. 
 
 
 
 It is very important for an artiste to stay abreast of changes and move ahead with time. And, I have done the same. I have my own YouTube channel and have also collaborated with a digital platform so that I can reach out to more people. I try and live stream my concerts. I have shifted over to digital, because that is in the interest of my work.
 
 
 
 Yes, there has been a dip. But at the same time, I have to insist that there are a lot of people who listen to ghazals across the world. The new generation may not have the taste for ghazal, but I feel that they enjoy poetry and express their thoughts via shero-shayari.
 
 
 
 There was a time when I sang several ghazals for movies. In fact, I’d think say helped ghazal reach out to more people; it was the backbone for ghazal. But today, the industry is on a different trip and I think they’ve been promoting Sufi a lot more. But I am optimistic and I feel that ghazal will come back.
 
 
 
 Singers like   and Jagjit Singh are people who laid the foundation for this art form, especially in India. In Pakistan, there was Mehdi Hassan. They played a major role in taking this form of music to different generations. And now, we are responsible to take it further. My contemporaries like   and   did just that. Jagjit’s absence is definitely felt and his contribution is something which we cannot overlook. 
 
 
