NAGPUR: In a victory of sorts for tigers, the district level committee for forest rights headed by the collector has rejected fishing rights in Totladoh reservoir inside Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR).

 In 2010, the Forest Rights Committee, New Totladoh (Wadamba), on the fringes of the tiger reserve had submitted proposal to Ramtek sub-divisional officer (SDO) granting community forest rights (CFR) for fishing in Totladoh reservoir under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006.
 
 In May 2016, SDO recommended fishing rights to 425 Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (OTFDs) from Wadamba. The SDO agreed that fishermen can be granted CFR in 11 reserve forest compartments, which are currently under water inside the tiger reserve.
 
 The proposal later went before the district level committee headed by collector. TOI was first to report the matter. Talking to TOI on Sunday, district collector Sachin Kurve said, “After a thoughtful process, the committee rejected the proposal around 6 months ago.”
 
 The Wadamba forest rights committee pleaded ignorance in the matter. Secretary of the committee   said, “We have no intimation about rejection of claims.”
 
 AK Ghosh of  , who helped the villagers push the proposal too said he was unaware. “We will meet the collector on the issue. If we were ineligible, why did SDO recommend our case?” he asked.
 
 The Ramtek SDO’s recommendation on fishing rights had caused flutter among the forest officials and wildlife conservationists. Then, chief wildlife warden  , too, had opposed the SDO’s move.
 
 In his representation to district collector, Satpuda Foundation chief Kishor Rithe had pointed out that these villagers were basically labourers, who have continued to stay put in Pench even after Totladoh dam work was completed in 1990.
 
 These villagers had moved the high court against their evacuation by the forest department. In 2002, the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court had rejected their claim and directed them to be removed from Pench. These encroachers were resettled at Wadamba by the administration in 2002.
 
 “When these encroachers were denied any fishing rights by the high court in Totladoh, how can the same encroachers get fishing rights in Wadamba?” he had asked and demanded to reject CFR inside the reserve.
 
 In another representation, Srushti Paryavaran Mandal’s Sanjay Deshpande, through his lawyer Kartik Shukul, had said that the claimants were not traditional forest dwellers as contemplated under FRA. The SC has already stated that there can be no fishing activities in the reservoir which is part of the tiger reserve.
 
 “Pench has been declared a critical tiger habitat (CTH) and allowing fishing in a CTH will set a wrong precedent. It is also against SC directives,” said Pench field director Rishikesh Ranjan hailing the move.
 
 The recent expose of major tiger poaching racket involving Pench fishermen bares it all. These fishermen are involved in killing herbivores and consuming meat right inside the tiger reserve. The arrest of 6 fishermen, who are now lodged in jail, confessed to killing 4 tigers.
 
 Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar to welcomed the verdict saying when the irrigation department quarters inside Pench are being vacated to make the tiger reserve inviolate, how can fishermen be allowed inside.
 
 "Moreover, the 11 compartments under water sought by the villagers for fishing have not been denotified yet, and their status continues to be reserve forest,” he adds.
 
