‘My   thinks I lack basic etiquette because I come from a small city’

  The news of 20-year-old Ramesh Bisht from   being pushed to his death by his landlord, following a scuffle in Gurgaon, has left many   – both youngsters studying in NCR and other metros as well as their parents – disturbed. Ramesh and his friends, who were living in Gurgaon, were facing acute water and electricity shortage in their apartment and had been complaining about the same to their landlord, Satbir Singh. But this left Satbir fuming and on Wednesday, allegedly in a drunken state, Satbir got into a fight with the boys and eventually pushed Ramesh off the balcony. While this is a rare and extreme case, Doon’s youngsters confess that many of them face rude behavior and have to put up with snide comments from landlords in NCR, who often take a dig at them, saying they are from small town and lack sophistication. 
 
  
 
 
  Pawan*, who belong to   but is staying in Delhi for last two years, says, "I love Delhi but getting a flat there on rent was a headache. My flat owner actually gave me a set of rules by which I should live. And it was unbelievable - he said things like I must take shower and wipe the floors.” He adds, “The landlord even told me that he has to draw these lists specifically for small-towners as they lack etiquettes." 
 
  
 
  Shivam, a photographer from Doon currently working in Noida, says, "Finding a flat in Delhi within your budget is a challenge and especially if you come from some smaller cities. We are often victims of stereotypes - for instance, my landlord would often tell me that humne suna tha pahad ke log seedhe hote hai and isiliye tumhe ghar diya, par tum toh raat ko late aa rahe ho. While I had to hear all this, they never said a word to my roommate who was from Delhi. He was really biased. But thankfully, after shifting, I have a better landlord." 
 
  
 
 
  Aayush, who has been living in Delhi for one year, says, "My girlfriend and I rented a flat in Lakshmi Nagar in Delhi and my landlord would often pass snooty comments saying things like: ‘tum jaise chote shehar wale bhi live-in karte ho?’ While they didn’t bother about my Delhi friends who were also living with their girlfriends, they would not spare an opportunity to take a dig at me." 
 
  
 
 
  The mishap in Gurgaon has left parents worried. Rekha, from Nehru Colony, whose daughter has rented an apartment in Delhi, says, "The first time when I read this news, I could not believe that someone can be this cruel. I got very scared as my daughter is also staying in Delhi. I called her immediately and asked her whether her landlord was behaving well with her. Though she said there was nothing to worry, I have advised her to move to a PG as I feel it’s safer." 
 
  (*Names changed on request)
 
  -- 
 
 
 
 
