PANAJI: The   (MGP), on Thursday, withdrew support to the   (BJP)-led government in Goa, formally bringing to an end the almost five-year BJP-MGP alliance, and further ruled out all possibilities of a pre-poll alliance with the   for the February 4 assembly polls.
 
  MGP also announced the name of senior party leader, Ramkrishna Dhavalikar alias Sudin, as its chief ministerial candidate.
  
  The decision to withdraw the support was taken at the MGP central committee meeting held on Thursday morning.
  
  In a letter to governor Mridula Sinha and speaker Anant Shet, MGP said their central committee had decided to break the alliance with immediate effect.
  
  MGP president Pandurang Dhavalikar alias Deepak told reporters after the meeting that the central committee had passed a resolution to break the alliance and that the decision has been forwarded to both, the governor and speaker.
  
  “Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) has agreed to MGP’s chief ministerial candidate,” Deepak said and added that the party has not kept any doors open for an alliance with the BJP. MGP will finalize the alliance with GSM by Sunday he informed.
  
  MGP will announce its candidates on January 11, 12 and 13, said Deepak and added that the party has received applications from candidates for 18 constituencies including Shiroda, Savordem, Sanguem, Curchorem, Ponda, Marcaim, Priol, Pernem, Mandrem, Mapusa, Dabolim, Vasco, Mormugao, Bicholim, St Andre, St Cruz and Valpoi. MGP has decided to contest 22 assembly seats, informed the MGP president.
  
  A rift developed between BJP and MGP after MGP demanded that BJP change its chief minister   before starting alliance talks.
  
  “We have had several differences with the BJP, but they never paid any heed to the differences. If they had sorted out the differences then, the BJP-MGP alliance could have continued for the next 15 years,” Deepak said.
  
  Asked whether MGP had also closed its doors for a post-poll alliance with the BJP, Pandurang, dodging the question, said they were trying to get elected in maximum seats. “Our candidates are getting good response,” he added.
  
  “We have decided to field former independent MLA Naresh Sawal from Bicholim,” the MGP president said and added that Sawal, Jagdish Bhobe from St Andre, Vijay Gaonkar from Valpoi and a few others will be joining the party on Sunday.
  
  The MGP has constituted a parliamentary board, which will be headed by Sudin.
