NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: MPs in faction led by former chief minister   on Thursday met chief election commissioner Nasim Zaidi, urging the top panel to declare V K Sasikala’s election as party general secretary “null and void”. They said she did not fulfil the eligibility criteria of continuous membership of the party for five years to get a party post. Sasikala was expelled between December 2011 and March 2012. 

 In Chennai, former CM Panneerselvam said he would continue the dharma yudh and would not allow those hands sullied by the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to be associated with the party. The party cadres and the general public are angry at the governor for inviting the Sasikala faction to form a government based on the numbers shown in paper. 
 
 “The truth is that MLAs are held captive in a resort and not allowed to come out of the resort,” the former CM told reporters. Panneerselvam will also go on a state-wide tour to explain to the people the “conspiracies” of Sasikala and her family. “I take a vow in the name of Amma that I will retrieve the party through peaceful protests,” he said. 
 
 The AIADMK delegation led by Rajya Sabha MP V Maitreyan met the EC officials in the afternoon and requested that no decision taken under Sasikala’s leadership be recognized as she was not fit to be general secretary in the first place. The decisions being challenged include, naming Palaniswami as AIADMK legislature party leader, appointment of Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dinakaran as party deputy general secretary and the recent expulsion of around 20 ‘rebel’ leaders, including Panneerselvam.
 
 “The main contention made by the lawmakers in their 42-page submission to EC is that Sasikala was expelled by Jayalalithaa from AIADMK between December 19, 2011 and March 31, 2012, whereas Clause 30(5) of the party constitution requires a person to be a primary member for five consecutive years before he or she can contest the elections. The break in her membership makes Sasikala ineligible to be AIADMK general secretary,” said a legislator, who was part of the delegation.
 
 The Panneerselvam camp has also faulted the validity of Sasikala’s election on the ground that she was chosen by the general council of AIADMK and not by the cadres, as required by the party constitution. The delegation, in its meeting with the EC, argued that the general council’s job was to frame policies and programmes and not elect the general secretary.
 
 
