BENGALURU: An Axis Bank  , suspected to have been fitted with a   by gangsters who allegedly cloned data of numerous bank cards and walked away with thousands of rupees, is now under lock and key. 

 Several victims who lost money in recent   cases live in the vicinity of the   and have used it at some point. Police said they have recieved 26 cases of card fraud in just 12 days due to ATM skimming and put the loss at Rs 13 lakh. The suspects are believed to have duplicated customer cards by copying data through skimmers planted at ATMs and captured their PINs using hidden cameras. 
 
 Infosys staffer Ravishankar, a Geddalahalli resident, was perturbed after losing Rs 90,000 — nine withdrawals were made from his ICICI Bank account by unknown persons on July 1. “They withdrew the cash from two ATMs in RT Nagar. A few of my neighbours are also victims of ATM fraud,” said the chartered accountant who’s a resident of Mantri Splendor, an apartment complex near the Geddalahalli ATM. Six residents of the complex have lost money to card scamsters. 
 
 Kiran Alex, a software professional who stays near the closed kiosk, lost Rs 1.30 lakh to illegal withdrawals on July 2. “Many of the complainants in card fraud cases have used this ATM at some point,” said Alex, who recalled withdrawing money from the kiosk on June 29.
 
 “The ATM kiosk is shut for more than a week. Policemen keep visiting the spot for inspection and often question the guard who lives in the adjoining enclosure,” said a salesperson at Pink Berry, a liquor store adjoining the kiosk.
 
 While police refused to comment on the matter, Axis Bank authorities confirmed that the kiosk was compromised in what appears to be a skimmer attack. “Axis Bank condemns unscrupulous elements, which are clearly at play in the reported incident. We are fully cooperating with the authorities. We urge customers to be vigilant while transacting at ATMs and immediately report to us if they find anything suspicious,” the bank said in an official statement.
 
 
 
 In a case of card fraud reported with Adugodi police on May 31, a techie lost Rs 40,000 through four illegal withdrawals from a private bank ATM in Omkar Nagar, Arekere. The techie decided to track down the suspects. “With the SMSs I received on the withdrawals, I tracked the ATM code and headed to the private bank in Syndicate Bank Colony, Arekere. The authorities told me to come back with cops,” said the software professional on condition of anonymity. 
 
 After noting down the timing of the withdrawals (SMSs), he went back to the bank with an Adugodi policeman and matched it with the timing on the CCTV footage of the kiosk. It showed two African men withdrawing cash from his public sector bank account. “Authorities of my bank found out it was a fraudulent withdrawal (done using a cloned card) and have promised me a refund, which I am yet to receive,” said the victim who is awaiting action.
 
