Ghaziabad: In tune with the poll promises made in the BJP manifesto during the assembly elections, an   of the   police hit the streets and rounded up 32 youths on Wednesday. 

 Though most of them were let off after a warning, in Vijay Nagar area, six youths were challaned under Section 151 of CrPC.
 
 “We found six youths near ABES college loitering around. When they were quizzed, they failed to come up with a satisfactory reply. So they were brought to the police station and challaned under Section 151 of CrPC,” said Neeraj Singh, SHO, Vijay Nagar police station. 
 
 “Though they were let off, it should serve as a warning to them. In the meantime, their credentials are verified,” said Singh.
 
 In Indirapuram, nine youths were rounded up from near schools. 
 
 “Since they were in early twenties, we did not make any arrest. However, we ensured that their parents were summoned and warned,” said Anup Singh, chowki incharge.
 
 In Kavi Nagar and Sihani Gate area, fourteen persons were warned after they were found to be hanging around near colleges. In Modinagar, four persons were issued warning.
 
 An anti-Romeo squad comprises five to six personnel including a woman cop who have been directed to patrol the areas in the neighbourhood of schools and colleges during peak hours. 
 
 “They have been directed to keep a vigil in plainclothes and in uniform. Suspicious persons are immediately questioned and if need be, even arrested,” said Manish Mishra, circle officer. 
 
 “The squad has been attached to every police station and its modalities would be worked out in detail after direction from the government,” said Mishra.
 
 Meanwhile, some said the way the teams function blurs the line between crime control and moral policing.
 
 According to senior police officers in Lucknow, in major cities every police station will have four or more squads depending upon the deployment requirements. 
 
 The squads will be deployed at schools and colleges in the morning and day time when schools get over. Thereafter, they will stay mobile at malls and market places. 
 
 
