MUMBAI: A game which had threatened to become a dead rubber has suddenly come alive, and there's plenty at stake when the   take on   at the Wankhede Stadium on Thursday night. Having come back from the brink when they stunned the Kolkata Knight Riders at Mohali on Tuesday night, the Kings, egged on by their enthusiastic co-owner, actor Preity Zinta, have infused life into a tournament where the playoff spots seemed sealed going into the last leg of the league phase.

 Needing to win all of their last three games to sneak into the knockouts,  's boys have knocked one down, and now need to beat MI today and then the Rising Pune Supergiant in Pune on May 14 to guarantee 16 points -a tally which would see them climb up from the fifth position that they currently occupy on the points table. At the same time, they would also hope that Sunrisers Hyderabad, placed just a spot above them at fourth with 15 points, lose their last game to the Gujarat Lions in Kanpur on May 13.
 
 MI, on the other hand, sit at the top of the tree with 18 points, but must ensure that they eventually do finish in the top two to have two bites of the cherry. They would be keen to play the first qualifier at home on May 16a fixture which allows them the luxury of a direct entry into the final should they win it, and a chance of staying alive through a Qualifier 2 if they lose it. The team looked jaded and demotivated during its seven-wicket loss in its last game against the Sunrisers Hyderabad, and must quickly re-energise itself for one last dash at a top-two finish.
 
 The thrill, of course, lies in seeing if Kings can stay alive here. Theirs is a story of the underdog finally discovering that it can bite too. Ever since they charmed everyone by reaching the final in 2014, the Mohali-based franchise have flattered to deceive, finishing last in the next two years.
 
 With Sehwag now in charge of their cricket operations, though, the team has delivered a far better performance this season, winning six out of its 12 games. The bold call to appoint   as captain seems to have paid off, as the dynamic Aussie seems well in command of the troupe, besides chipping in with useful contributions with bat, ball and energetic fielding in the deep. While his big hits are always a treat to watch, the 'Big show' is proving to be more than handy with the ball while bowling his off-spinners.
 
 The real stars for the Kings, though, have been the Indian bowlers-the two Sharmas, Sandeep and Mohit, and Axar Patel. While Sandeep Sharma (16 wickets in 11 games@21.50) has been excellent with the new ball and difficult to score off the old too, Mohit (11 wickets in 12 games@31.54) has been fantastic with his variations. Patel, who must consider himself unlucky to miss out on a berth in the Champions Trophy, has delivered with both bat and the ball (13 wickets@24.69 & 186 runs in 12 games), while leggie Rahul Tewatia, who took two for 18 in four overs to swing the game around for Kings in their last game, has emerged as a surprise weapon.
 
 One man the Kings would badly miss at this stage is experienced South African opener  , the only batsman to have cracked two hundreds in   10, who had to leave for national duty.
 
 Around 20 days back, the Kings were hammered black and blue by MI at Indore. Riding on Amla's unbeaten 104, they'd put up a formidable 198 for four, but a brilliant 77 off just 37 balls by   saw the visitors chase down that target in the 16th over itself. Kings would be relieved that with MI preferring to open with Lendl Simmons and  , they don't have to bowl to the dangerous England 'keeper-bat now.
 
 Not that Simmons is any less dangerous. In his very first game as Buttler's replacement, the Caribbean smashed a 43-ball 66 in a massive win against the Delhi Daredevils at the Kotla on May 6. Wankhede holds special memories for Simmons. Around a year back, arriving just a couple of days earlier as a replacement for Andre Fletcher, the Trinidadian had smashed an unbeaten 51-ball 82 to help the West Indies beat India in the WorldTwenty20 semi-final here.
 
 The Kings, though, do have the resources to stop him and the other MI batsmen. Can David bring down Goliath here?
 
