PALANPUR: As death toll in the flood fury mounted to 218, the focus has now shifted to rehabilitation of thousands displaced in the worst-hit Banaskantha, Patan and other areas.

 On Monday, chief minister   announced housekeeping allowance and household assistance to over 3,000 flood-hit families in north Gujarat. Rupani is camping in Banaskantha for five days since Sunday to oversee the relief and rehabilitation work.
 
 He said that those who have lost their houses due to heavy rain will be paid Rs 60 per day per person up to 10 days. Household assistance will also be given to 3,000 family in next two days. However, the amount of household assistance was not specified.
 
 “Entire administrative and state cabinet ministers will camp in flood-affected talukas and efforts will be made to bring normalcy to Banskantha by the first week of August,” Rupani said.
 
 He added that since the rains have stopped, entire administration is involved in relief operations.
 
 Rupani reiterated that relief works in the Banaskantha was his top-most priority. The CM visited Thara, Dhanera and Tharad villages affected by heavy rains and met the villagers. 
 
 He also assured that animal carcasses in villages will be disposed of as per guidelines by Tuesday.
 
 In next one week, videography of the goods and grains are lost in floods will be done to decide on assistance to be provided.
 
 Principal secretary, revenue, Pankaj Kumar said 200 teams would be working to assess loss to crops and land in Patan. Also, 43 teams are working in Patan for disposal of dead bodies. Till now, carcasses of 1,189 animals have been disposed.
 
 Union information and broadcasting minister Smriti Irani also visited the flood-ravaged Dhanera and Deesa. She was accompanied by Balwantsinh Rajput, BJP’s Rajya Sabha candidate who recently quit Congress. She also visited Dhanera and Deesa and lauded the services being rendered by the voluntary organizations.
 
 Rupani too visted Nanpura and Badarpur villages in Radhanpur taluka of Patan.
 
 Meanwhile, Arun Acharya, chief medical officer, Banaskantha said two employees including a doctor were terminated from the serivce while one laboratory technician was transferred for negligence in duty during flood relief work in Kankrej taluka.
 
