SHIMLA: Will the meeting of state Congress leaders with   on Friday will ensure the patch up between chief minister   and state president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu whose ongoing tussle has posed a big question mark on the “mission repeat’ campaign of party ? .

 This question has cropped up in the minds of many with hours before the proposed meeting, Virbhadra Singh, who since long is demanding the removal of state president, made his intentions clear by attacking Sukhu on the issue of organizational elections.
 
 While addressing a public meeting at   in Shimla on Thursday, Virbhadra Singh said that   became the president of   State Youth Congress not through nomination but by virtue of elections in a democratic manner.
 
 With this statement Virbhadra Singh has once again attacked Sukhu as he was nominated as state president by the party high command and Virbhadra Singh is since long is demanding that there should be a duly elected party president.
 
 Tussle between Virbhadra Singh and Sukhu has already left the party divided in Himachal Pradesh that too when just a over month has left for the assembly election. Virbhadra Singh is the only leader in tate Congress who has equal mass following across state.
 
 In the meeting of Congress Legislative Party held in Shimla on August 23, majority MLAs had stated that Virbhadra Singh is the tallest and only acceptable leader of the state who is capable of leading the party to victory. Majority MLAs had demanded free hand to Virbhadra Singh ahead of polls but party higyh command has not taken any decision on this demand.
 
 Sources said that Friday’s meeting would decide the fate of Congress party in coming election as if Virbhadra Singh is not given free hand then his annoyance would cost dearly to party in the election. It is expected that during his meeting with Rahul Gandhi, Virbhadra Singh would once again seek free hand for himself in the election.
 Sources said that during the meeting, strategy for the assembly election would also be discussed and decision on various committees like ticket allotment committee, manifesto committee, campaign committee and some other committees could also be taken.
 
 With few days left for the election party high command wants to put a united show but the way Virbhadra Singh and Sukhu are on warring path, unity in state Congress seems a difficult task, sources said.
 
 In one such attempt to bring warring leaders together, transport minister   and Ghumwarin MLA of Congress Rajesh Dharmani had held closed door meeting Virbhadra Singh at his private residence Holly Lodge on Wednesday. Both Bali and Dharmani were considered from the rival camp and in past they have lodged their protest against Virbhadra Singh.
 
