PATNA: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has set up 73 centres across the state for evaluation of answer books for Intermediate examinations. Eight centres are located in Patna alone to evaluate answer books of science, arts and commerce streams.   Patna district education officer Ashok Kumar said A N College, B D College, College of Commerce, Arts and Science and J D Women’s College have been made centres for answer book evaluation. “Government Girls’ School, Shastri Nagar, Patna High School, Gardanibagh, B N Collegiate, Mahendru Ghat and Baldeva High School, Danapur are other centres for evaluation of answer books,” he said adding the BSEB has taken steps to ensure foolproof secrecy of answer books at all the centres.    Kumar said the BSEB has issued appointment letters to head examiners and examiners to join these centres with immediate effect. The board has also asked the evaluation centre directors to ensure joining of head examiners and examiners from March 15 onwards so that the evaluation work could start at the earliest.    According to sources, the BSEB has introduced barcode system on each answer book to maintain secrecy this year. The roll number system has been done away with by the board to check any kind of malpractice or tampering with the marks awarded to examinees, sources said, adding the evaluation will continue for about 10 to 12 days.    About 1.8 lakh answer books of arts stream are to be evaluated at B D College centre, while answer books of commerce and science streams will be evaluated at A N College and College of Commerce, Arts and Science centres, respectively, sources said.     The BSEB has extended the date for conducting Intermediate practical examinations for science subjects to March 27. Earlier, the exams were support to start from March 17. Centre directors have been asked to announce group wise batch of examinees for practical examinations latest by March 25 so that examinees could know the exact date of their practical examinations at their respective centres, sources said.     The Degree Part III examination forms will be filled up at all constituent colleges of the Magadh University till March 23. Most of the city-based colleges witnessed a huge rush of students to fill up examination forms on Thursday. A section of students, however, protested the decision of the university not to allow those students to fill up examination forms who have not cleared Part I and Part II examinations so far, sources said.