KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi   has contended before the Kerala high court that CBI's allegations against him in SNC Lava lin graft case are baseless.

 CBI's counsel had informed the court earlier that it was Vijayan, the then minister for power, who made the proposal for building a cancer centre at Thalassery. The state exchequer had suffered a loss of Rs 374 crore in the deal finalized in 1996 for the renovation and modernization of Pallivasal, Sengulam, and Panniar hydroelectric projects at an exorbitant rate, CBI had argued.
 
 A note filed by Pinarayi Vijayan's counsel to the court said the allegations are baseless, incorrect, and not supported by any materials or documents. The note said KSEB acted as an independent entity in signing the deal with  , that Pinarayi Vijayan had no role in the initial contract, and that providing funds for Malabar Cancer Centre was not part of the original contract between KSEB and   but that there was a separate memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Lavalin and the state government.
 
 Vijayan and former KSEB chairmen   and PA  , who have been arraigned as accused in the FIR registered by Vigilance and anti-corruption bureau in 2006, had no role in the initial contract and the alleged conspiracy surrounding the contract, the note said.
 
 Though CBI alleged conspiracy at later stages of the deal, there is nothing to suggest that there was a conspiracy in the materials and documents produced, the note submitted by Vijayan's counsel stated. “There was no allegation that there was meeting of minds between the accused in order to commit any illegal act or any act by illegal means,“ it said.
 
 The original MoU did not envisage the setting up of the Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC) or providing of any fund for its establishment and the idea was mooted in the meeting with Canadian governmental agency CIDA that was held in October 1996 when Vijayan and other officials visited Canada, the court was told.
 
 However, the establishment of MCC and the renovation and modernization projects had no connection and no such offer was made by Lavalin to KSEB, Vijayan has contended. The MoU regarding arrangements of funds was made between SNC Lavalin and Government of Kerala, it is argued.
 
