CHENNAI: "We haven't got a rank turner since the Nagpur Test against South Africa in October 2015." 

 R Ashwin was probably trying to put the ball in the curator's court ahead of the series against Australia. They wanted to strike early in the series and that's why 'rank turner' was the order of the day. Team India got what they wished, but in two weeks' time, the theory has come back to haunt them.
 
 It's true that the spinners' job becomes a little easier if it's a turner, but what Ashwin and company probably didn't factor in was the fact that they would also have to bat on the same tracks. And what has emerged over the three innings in Pune and Bengaluru is that this Indian batting line-up isn't the best equipped to play on turning pitches against spinners who have come well-prepared.
 
 WV Raman, the NCA batting coach, feels India should take a leaf out of Australia's book in handling spin. "It is crucial that on turning tracks, the batsmen play beside the line of the ball, something that   did so brilliantly in Pune. It meant that he was playing for the ball that was coming in and when the ball was turning too much, it was missing his bat," Raman, who is currently in Bengaluru, told TOI.
 
 "The Indians on the other hand are putting their feet on the line of the ball and that is creating all the trouble. If you do that, there's a chance of getting leg-before and the umpires these days are very strict, even if you are on the front foot," Raman explained.
 
 The Australians, it seems, had decided to follow this theory before they came for the tour.  , who has played a lot in India, was probably the only one who was putting his foot in line and got leg before in the second innings in Pune. But he, too, has made the necessary adjustment and in Bengaluru, he was playing Ashwin beside the line.
 
 This isn't the first time in recent times that India have struggled on tracks that have turned sharply. In Mumbai against England during the 2012-13 series, the Indians were almost sitting ducks against   and  .
 
 Incidentally an off-spinner and a left-arm spinner, tutored by Monty himself, is making life difficult for India once again. So the question that needs to be asked is whether it was judicious to go first up on tracks which are turning so much without a knowledge of what the Aussies had to offer.
 
 "It was obviously a strategic blunder. I don't know why we thought that Indians are the greatest players of spin? The Australians have good spinners and we should have gone for pitches similar to the England series, where the game lasted five days," former India allrounder Karsan Ghavri.
 
 But that's done and India have to do something spectacular both with the bat and the ball if they are to harbour hopes of winning back the Border-Gavaskar Trophy.
 
 
