Surat/Vadodara: “Will we get trapped near Bharuch?” This is the first apprehension for anyone starting a road trip to Mumbai from Ahmedabad or Surat to Ahmedabad. The fears are not out of place given how notorious these towns have become for the serpentine traffic snarls almost every day.

 Memories of September-October 2015 nightmare are still fresh in the minds of sufferers. The Sardar Bridge was closed for three days due to heavy rains and the queue of vehicles stretched up to 22 km till Panoli on the Ankleshwar side and 12 km in the direction of Vadodara. 
 
 The jams are even caused job losses in this highly industrial belt with people reaching late to office, thus drawing the management’s ire many a times.
 
 One accident or a big pothole is enough to bring lakhs of vehicles to standstill and the jams have spared none—be it politicians, senior IPS officers or even the critically ill patients being taken in the ambulances.
 
 The crucial police staff that could have dealt with crimes was many a times deployed for days together only to ensure smooth flow of traffic. 
 
 Rajesh Joshi, a manager with an industrial unit in Ankleshwar, said, “ I had started at sharp 6pm from my factory to be home by 7pm to attend to guests. But there was a 12 km long queue on the NH8 got stuck on Golden bridge and reached home only by 10 pm when the guests were about to leave.”
 
 Transporters in Vadodara have been some of the biggest victims. 
 
 “There would be nearly 200 trucks from Vadodara which move towards Surat and Mumbai on daily basis. So far, all the truck drivers had to face minimum three to four hours traffic jam at Bharuch. The drivers also had to listen to abuses while lot of diesel used to get wasted during the waiting period. Hopefully there could be some respite with the new bridge,” said Sanjay Chauhan, president of the Baroda Road Transport Association.
 
 Anand Kapoor, a petrochemicals and gas transporter “Drivers who had to spend sleepless nights without food and water would at times meet accidents. As the bridge is being inaugurated, there will be two way movement of traffic and time consumption will reduce by minimum 2 to 3 hours.”
 
 
