Armed with an “intimate“ photograph, Bengal police are desperately looking for one of  ' girlfriends, who was once a resident of the posh   in Bhopal.
Police want to know if she is alive. What worries them is the way Udayan reacts whenever he is asked about her -he feels uneasy and start fidgeting, just as he did when confronted with his parents' pictures in the early days of the probe.
 
 TOI is withholding the name of the woman. She is seven years older than Udayan and lived near   when the two allegedly were in a relationship, said an officer of Bankura police, who are questioning him for the murders of livein partner   and his parents.
 
 Police haven't been able to find any trace of her. She may have been a student of Nutan College. Investigators were drawn to this woman after seeing an intimate picture of her with Udayan at his house after the discovery of Akansha's tomb. “There were bunches of photographs, but this one leapt out at us,“ said an officer.
 
 “When we questioned Udayan about girl, he replied with the same uneasiness that was seen when we interrogated him about his parents (police didn't know then they were murdered and buried in Raipur). It makes us suspicious. We fear he may have eliminated her as well, but it needs to be investigated and verified,“ said a senior officer of Bankura police.
 
 Udayan is talking a lot in custody but not all of it is true, say police, adding that he is always trying to find a way to mislead them. But when they confront her with this girl's picture, he clams up and starts acting nervous.
 
 All he has said is that they had an affair and she lived in Arera Colony then. Asked how they met, he grudgingly said that their mothers were colleagues in the statistics and planning department in MP.
 
 An investigating officer said, “His uneasiness makes us suspicious. He is ready to answer a lot of things but when we start questioning him about this girl, he starts behaving weird. When I interrogated him in Bhopal about the whereabouts of his parents, he reacted exactly the same way . We need to find out if she is alive or not to clear our suspicion.“ Udayan claims he broke up with her in 2010 and doesn't know her whereabouts. He also claims her brother was a friend of his.
 
