Love is in the air— electromagnetic waves flutter like heartbeats and every time there is a surge of romantic emotions, you have a platform readily available to express the feelings deep inside you at your fingertips. Love in the time of technology is all about texting, voice chats and exchanging emoticons. 
On this Valentine’s Day, we bring you the endearing love stories of a few couples for whom different avatars of technology played Cupid. 
 
 
 
 
 Cupid: whatsapp 
 Calicut-based-fashion designer Radhika and Trivandrum-based entrepreneur Vishnu P K had registered on a leading matrimonial website. “We both had come across each other’s profile in the website but never bothered to ‘express interest’ to each other. Later, we happened to see each other’s profile on Facebook and we could sense a vibe. After becoming friends on the FB, we exchanged the numbers too. Then, started the Whatsapp conversations which sometimes went on till the wee hours. It’s through Whatsapp that we came to know each other better. Though our families were not supportive of our decision to marry citing long distance as the reason, we stood our ground. Finally, love won and we are a couple today,” says Radhika, who got married to Vishnu last year. 
 
 
 
 Cupid: CHAT ROOM
 Actress Jomol refers to herself as the one of the pioneers to adopt technology to romance. “It was in 2001, when the chat rooms were active. There were only Yahoo! chat and Hotmail those days. We started off in a public chat and then moved on to private chats. Chandu had portrayed himself as an elder man. In real, he didn’t know much about me as an actress as he wasn’t watching Malayalam films. I fell in love through the virtual media with his personality rather than age. And I still remember the day I first met him. There was this handsome young guy and I did not have the slightest clue that it would be Chandu. We are now married for 16 years and are blessed with two children,” she says.
 
 
 
 Cupid: FACEBOOK
 A break up, directing a super hit film and falling in love with a fan of his movie — Jude Anthony Joseph’s love story is an eventful one. “Post the release of Om Shanthi Oshana, I noticed that a girl named Diyana had liked the film’s Facebook page. I immediately took a liking for her and it was love at first ‘like’. From her social media profile I found out that Diyana and I have similar interests. We soon took our social media friendship to the next level. We started chatting over mobile and got to know each other better. Without Facebook, I don’t think we would have ever united. We will always be grateful to Facebook for connecting us,” says Jude Anthony who is celebrating his second wedding anniversary on this Valentine’s Day.
 
 
 
 Cupid: Orkut
 It was the now defunct social network Orkut that brought Devi from Trivandrum and IT professional Anoop from Kothamangalam together. “I was in Class 12 when I first spoke to Anu. I used to see him as my frequent profile visitor and out of curiosity, I casually chatted with him for a while. However, we didn’t bother to keep in touch. After seven years, I got three marriage proposals through a matrimony site and I was elated to see that one was from Anu. We got connected again through Facebook, spoke over the phone and fell for each other. We got married in 2014. We are now parents to a baby boy, Neil,” she says.
 
 
 
 Cupid: SKYPE
 Frequent telephonic conversation and video calls helped Aiswarya and Gokulchand sustain their long-distance relationship. “We were in the same school in Trivandrum while in Class 12. But back then, we hardly spoke. In 2009, when I was doing my graduation, I got a call in my landline from Gokul, who was in Goa. I felt nice to hear from him and the calls continued. Eventually, we switched over to mobile phones. In the beginning, I was in Trivandrum and Gokul in Goa. Later, I shifted to Bangalore and he to Nashik. So, we couldn’t meet in person till 2012. But thanks to Skype, we never missed each other. We were so involved that he would even help me choose my birthday dress. We realised we are inseparable. As we were from two different castes, we had to face some trouble from the families. But we crossed those hurdles and got married last December,” says Aiswarya.
 
 
 
