CHANDIGARH: At a time when talks are going on between   and   government for withdrawal of criminal cases registered during the February 2016 violence, the   has ordered completion of the trial related to burning of finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s residence in Rohtak within six months.

 The apex court passed the order while dismissing the bail plea of Dilawar Singh, an ex-serviceman, who was said to be leading the mob that had set Abhimanyu’s house on fire. “We do not find any ground to interfere. The special leave petition is accordingly dismissed. However, we direct the trial court to conclude the trial as far as possible within six months from today,” a division bench comprising Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and Uday Umesh Lalit observed while dismissing Dilawar’s bail plea.
 
 The hearing before the SC had taken place on January 31 but the order was released last week.
 
 Dilawar had taken voluntary retirement from the IAF and returned to Haryana in February. Immediately, after that he was arrested for his alleged involvement in the incident.
 
 He had approached the apex court after the Punjab and Haryana high court had dismissed his bail plea in December 2016, observing that his release may lead to tampering of prosecution witnesses. “Prima facie, the petitioner was the leader of the mob, which indulged in arson, loot and burning of the kothi of Capt  . The offences are serious and there is every likelihood of tampering prosecution witnesses if the petitioner is released on bail. In that view, the prayer for grant of regular bail to the petitioner is rejected,” the HC had held in its December 2, 2016, orders.
 
 The matter is presently investigated by the CBI after the Haryana government had handed it over to the premier agency in August 2016. Dilawar has been seeking bail on the grounds that the matter had been taken over by the CBI, which might take its own time in investigation. His another argument was that there was no offence against him nor any recovery had been made from him and as such, he ought to be released on bail for he had been already behind bars for over nine months.
 
 The prosecution, however, had claimed that two eye witnesses had named Dilawar in connection with the overt act of damaging Abhimanyu’s house.
 
 
