JAIPUR:   is going through boom phase. Students who are not able to make it up to  , but want to pursue their   can apply for a course in  . Introduction of this course has led to an increased number of opportunities in the medical industry.

 The course is offered at bachelor’s as well as diploma level. Bachelor’s program is for three years plus a year of internship. After graduation, students with science background can take up diploma courses offered for two years (DMLT). The course aims at providing an efficient and balanced training in lab technology. The course prepares students for clinical profession.
 
 Lab technologists are responsible for diagnosing, treating and preventing disease through clinical laboratory. The study deals with areas such as blood banking, clinical chemistry, haematology, immunology, microbiology, cytotechnology, phlebotomy, urine analysis, coagulation, parasitology, blood sample matching, drug efficacy test, serology.
 
 With the growing complexity of the course, scope of this course had expanded over the years. Medical technology in India has a whole variety of fields. Some of them are CT scan technicians, anesthesia technicians, laboratory technicians, MRI technicians, X-ray technicians, dental machines, Operation theatre technicians, pathology technicians, optical laboratory, physiotherapy technicians, plaster technicians, renal dialysis and radiology technicians.
 
 Apart from the lab opportunities, you can pursue research in the further field or get into education line. Medical lab technicians can find employment in hospitals, medical pathology labs, research labs, urologists office and pharmaceuticals.
 
 Malu, an 18 year old girl who wants to pursue career as lab technologist says,” I couldn’t clear medical entrance exam but medicine has always interested me. So I decided to get into lab technology and make a career out of it.”
 
 Colleges which provides a bachelor’s as well as diploma degree are AIIMS Delhi, Kanyakumari government medical college Tamil Nadu, Calicut Medical college Kozikode, Goa college of pharmacy, Medical college Nagpur and Institute of paramedical management and technologies New Delhi. 
 
