LUCKNOW: Since college, businessman   had remained apolitical but UP chief minister   changed that. On Sunday, as Akhilesh and Rahul steered through the crowded Nazirabad, Asif and his family waved at the CM from their terrace.

 “There are two reasons for this,“ Asif told TOI, adding, “This party is in tune with India's diversity together and secondly , CM Akhilesh Yadav is a man of his words. His commitment to development is visible.“
 
 About the alliance, he said, “Though Congress is a bigger gainer, the union will cement the cause of unity in diversity.“
 
 Like Asif, many Muslims lauded the CM and favoured the alliance. Rida, a class II student of   caught the attention of Samajwadi sup porters as she waved a placard that read: `Welcome Akhilesh Uncle, Rahul Uncle'.
 
 Owner of a chikan clothes shop Nawab Alam said he had been waiting for the roadshow to pass the Aminabad vicinity since morning and added, “Alliance ka achha asar hona chahiye...agli baar Akhilesh ji pe bandishen nahin hongi (alliance should have a positive impact... next time, Akhilesh will be free of restrictions),“ he said.
 
 An Aminabad street vendor Furqan Pasha had clim bed atop a pole for a clear view. Initially a Congress supporter, Furqan had followed   after the   demolition.Seeing Akhilesh and Rahul together, he said, “Achche log saath aa gaye hain to ab achcha hi hoga (good people have come together, so everything is going to be all right).“
 
 Builder Abdul Azim of Moulvi Ganj's Astabal Charbagh Mohallah said, “For the first time a CM has come so near my doorstep. I will return the gesture with my vote.“
 
 `Historical place for historical day'
 
 Thousands gathered at Clock Tower to attend the first public meeting by Rahul and Akhilesh hours before it began. The crowd reciprocated with thunderous applause when Akhilesh described the historic Clock Tower as the most appropriate place to hold an equally historic event. “What better place their could have been for this event than the historic Clock Tower,“ Akhilesh said.
 
 Ear to the ground
 
 Muslims welcomed Akhilesh and Rahul whole-eartedly and the CM reciprocated it suitably. As Rahul addressed people at Hussainabad, the sound of azaan (call for prayer) emanated from a mosque nearby. Hearing the call, Akhilesh asked Rahul to stop for a moment till it was over.
 
