MUSSOORIE: Even as Dhanaulti received fresh snowfall on Friday morning, the   in the town shot up. The   party’s Manmohan Singh Mall who had been named the candidate for the seat filed his papers at around 1.30 pm amidst much cheering and slogan-shouting by supporters but soon after, got a jolt when he heard that the party might take the ticket back from him.
 
  A visibly upset Mall rushed straight to Dehradun to speak to  . He told TOI, “There is no question of me returning the ticket. There are sentiments of thousands of party workers attached to my nomination. This ticket will go only if Congress throws me out.”
  
  Mall who is currently serving his third term as Mussoorie municipal council president has been a Congress old-timer who has been associated with the party for almost four decades. He had contested the Dhanaulti seat in the last assembly elections in 2012, securing 10,933 votes as against 12,081 of BJP’s Mahavir Singh Rangar.
  
  Rumours were rife since Friday afternoon afternoon that the 55-year-old leader had been denied the ticket and Congress would now support cabinet minister Pritam Singh Panwar of the   Kranti Dal who has already filed his nomination as an independent candidate on Wednesday.
  
  However, when TOI contacted Panwar, he refuted the rumours. “I have heard no such thing. I wanted to contest as an individual and I have filed my papers as an individual.”
  
  Dhanaulti seat, with almost 76,000 voters was a reserved seat until 2012 is considered important because of its proximity to Mussoorie as well as being a well-known tourist destination.
  
  Interestingly, BJP is also facing opposition to its candidate Narayan Singh Rana, 65, father of shooter Jaspal Rana. Rana, once a Congress supporter, was the first sports minister of the state from 2000-02 and was given preference over sitting Dhanaulti MLA Mahaveer Singh Rangar.
  
  While the candidates fight it out amongst themselves, many voters like Deepa Devi, 81, who understand little of political games summed up the sentiments of many voters in the area, “All that matters to us is that our fields should stay, we should have enough water for them and school for our children.”
