RAJAHMUNDRY: The fight over   appears to be heading for a climax with the pro-sport people bringing pressure on politicians to ensure that the activity is allowed unhindered this Sankranti even as cops on Tuesday constituted 42 teams to prevent the fights from happening.

 The   had banned cock fights and directed the district administrations of East & West Godavari, Krishna and Guntur to ensure that the game is not allowed to be held. People engaged in organising cock fights and betters have been claiming that it is a tradition held every Sankranti. However, apart from animal lovers who oppose the sport on the grounds of cruelty, law enforcement agencies are of the view that crores of rupees are exchanged during the peak of the activity that happens from January 12 to 16.
 
 In view of what appears to be a likely showdown as the festival nears, local politicians from the village to constituency level are now in a dilemma. “Cockfights have been a tradition since our forefathers and nobody can stop it. If we stop it, our opponents will cash in on it,” said a senior TDP leader from Bhimavaram. 
 
 Chintamaneni Prabhakar, TDP MLA of Denduluru in West Godavari, on Monday told media persons that human beings may respect court orders but roosters won’t. “Cock fighting is natural when two roosters face each other. Nobody can stop it,” he said while speaking to the media in his constituency. 
 
 Meanwhile, organisers have been going ahead with the preparations for cock fights in the confidence that they will be backed by their local people’s representatives despite the court orders. “Our people’s representatives are giving assurances that they will secure permission for the cock fighting to be held,” one of the organisers of the sport at Polavaram village in   told TOI on condition of anonymity. Many organisers have announced guest list including popular political figures in their arenas. 
 
 On the other hand, East and West Godavari cops have formed 48 teams that will fan out in the coming week and ensure that the sport is not held. till date, West Godavari cops have arrested three persons when they were tying knives to roosters in Unguturu mandal and booked bindover cases against 500 persons. West Godavari cops are also telecasting a short film in all cinema theatres to create awareness among the people. 
 
 
