BENGALURU: Police and intelligence agencies investigating the three Pakistanis staying illegally in Bengaluru, aided by an Indian national, said they have no evidence yet to suggest they were conspiring against the country.

 In fact, the version of events narrated by the suspects says that Samira, one of the Pakistani women, was kept under   in Karachi by her father, on learning that she had married an Indian. During this time, she underwent an abortion as well.
 
 India was, in fact, their only refuge. Realizing that they would never see each other again, Mohammed Shihab smuggled his wife Samira into the country. With them came their friends Kirhon and Khasif, hoping to get a chance to live together.
 
 On Thursday evening, all four of them were produced before a metropolitan magistrate court, where they were remanded to 14 days in police custody, for further questioning. 
 
 Shihab told police that he met Samira in 2012, when she was working as a stenographer. During this time, Samira’s mother passed away and her father, who married again, was not in regular touch with her.
 
 Shihab and Samira fell in love and married three years later. When she was pregnant with their first child, Samira’s father learnt about her marriage and reached  . Furious with her for marrying an Indian, he took her back to Karachi, where she was kept under house arrest.
 
 But Samira was able to stay in touch with Shihab with the help of her cousin Kirhon, and her husband Khasif. On realizing that her father would not allow her to go back to Muscat, Shihab made a plan to get them all into India.
 
 Kirhon and Khasif, whose families opposed their marriage, decided to join the runaway couple. Shihab sent them some money for the journey, and the trio raised the rest. In 2016, they managed to escape from home and catch a flight to Muscat, from where they travelled to India.
 
 Sleuths questioning them said their story, though heartening, is told by many suspects caught for illegally entering the country and acquiring false documents. “We don’t believe this story, as yet. Interrogation will continue,” said a senior police officer. “We will also provide the pregnant woman all necessary medical facilities.”
 
 
