AHMEDABAD: Waseem, one of the two   links, had stayed in Juhapura loclity of Ahmedabad for about 18 months. Sources in the   said he used to stay in a rented house and worked as a graphic designer for a private firm.

 ATS officials claimed this is where he had allegedly come into contact with UP-based cleric, Mufti  , who used to visit the city to deliver religious speeches.
 
 Sources in the   said that during his stay in the city, Waseem had also come into contact with four other youths. “They together used to go to hear Qasmi’s speeches. Qasmi was later arrested by the NIA from UP,” an ATS official said.
 
 Police officers said they had identified all the four youths who are in the age group of 25 to 35 years. “We have summoned them for questioning as they were found be in touch with Waseem even after he had left for Rajkot,” said an officer. 
 
 “Waseem later left the graphic designer’s job and shifted to Rajkot. Here he got in touch with   handlers through the internet and was completely radicalized,” said an ATS official.
 
 Meanwhile, during interrogation, Waseem told investigators that he often felt offended when people commented on his beard. “He told us that people would taunt him that his beard looked like a bush. Waseem has also alleged that people would often look at his wife with bad intentions,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 Sources said Waseem had told the police that he used to get angry at such comments and decided to launch terror attacks after he came in contact with ISIS handlers.
 
 Sources in the ATS said they had more evidence against Waseem than his younger brother, Naeem. “Naeem used to chat about jehadi ideology with Waseem but was always reluctant to accompany his elder brother to execute a terror plan,” an ATS official said.
 
 Both brothers had run into losses in their garment and scrap business. 
 
 “They were looking for jobs when they came in contact with ISIS handlers through the internet. The ISIS handlers spotted their need for money and promised them cash along with escape to Iraq,” an ATS official said.
 
