CHENNAI: The cash paid to voters in R K Nagar would have been the deciding factor on April 12, the day the constituency would have gone to poll, a survey has revealed.

 Late on Sunday night, the   decided to cancel the byelection to the R K Nagar constituency. The   order attributed the decision to rampant voter bribing and corruption.
 
 The move came a couple of days after the income tax department raided TN health minister Vijayabaskar and reportedly seized evidence of voter bribing.
 
 A team from research institute   met 1,020 voters across 51 booth locations in the constituency between April 1 and 9. The results of their study, released on Monday, revealed that cash (between Rs 2,000 and Rs 4,000) paid by certain political parties over the last few days would have influenced voters' decision the most, on polling day, among other variables.
 
 The study revealed that on the basis of the cash distributed across the constituency, those who would have gained the most were AIADMK (Amma) candidate T T V Dhinakaran (38.8%), DMK candidate Marudhu Ganesh (29.5%), AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) candidate E Madhusudhanan (8.7%) and 2.6% for Deepa Jayakumar, niece of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, who was contesting as an independent.
 
 Recent surveys by Puthiya Thalamurai and Vikatan had predicted victory for Madhusudhanan, followed by Marudhu Ganesh.
 
 S Rajanayagam, Director, People Studies, who conducted the study along with his team, said that the cash paid to voters was the "supervening variable subsuming other variables" - such as caste, allegiance to a party or leader, religion, impact of cinema/media, candidates' credibility and infrastructure and civic issues in the constituency.
 
 "Irrespective of caste, religion, age, education, people did not feel guilty about accepting money," he said.
 
 The majority of the voters (65.3%) also felt that the cash and gifts distributed would affect the final results, and only 15.5% felt there would be no impact.
 
 
