BELAGAVI: Villagers of Sulaga are relieved and happy. Finally, after several requests and pleas a dead lake in the village will be rejuvenated, and hopefully ease the water crisis. The   has reached their village with excavators and tippers, to commence work on desilting and reviving the lake.

 After rejuvenating a dead lake at Prabhu Nagar in Khanapur taluk, Pyaas Foundation, an NGO established a year ago to meet the drinking water needs of villages suffering from drought, now plans to rejuvenate another lake in  . 
 
 Sulaga, a village 10 km far from the city, is one among the severely drought-hit villages with depleted groundwater table. There is a dead lake which was once the main water source for villagers. It was destroyed when big rocks from the hilltop rolled down in to lake decades ago. Villagers then started depending on groundwater by digging borewells. There are over 30 borewells in village but most have dried up. Only one borewell has water and it meets the drinking water needs of villagers. But to wash clothes and for other purposes, villagers have to travel 2 km where a water tank is located.
 
 Pyaas Foundation has taken it as a challenge to end the water crisis in the village by rejuvenating the dead lake. This work could have been taken up under the MNREGA scheme. But as machines are needed to remove the big rocks and also to dig the stony bed of the lake, work never began.
 
 Aravind Patil, GP president, said, “we have approached several authorities over the years, urging them to desilt the lake and bring it back to life. It was impossible to take up the work under MNREGA as we needed excavators. Then we approached Pyaas Foundation. Now rejuvenation work has began and we are hopeful that the dried borewells will get recharged if this lake get filled during the monsoon.”
 
 Madhav Prabhu, president, Pyaas Foundation, said that after developing 40-feet and 4,000 sq ft lake in Prabhu Nagar in 2016, they decided to take up rejuvenation work of the lake in Sulaga when villagers led by panchayat representatives approached members of the Foundation a year ago. “Apart from contributions from the Foundation, funds have been raised from donors for this work which will be completed in about 15 days," he added.
 
 
