KOLKATA: Mitrajit Basu hasn't drawn a single note out of an ATM or bank since Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes were banned on November 8 last year. The senior operational engineer with a navigation technology company in Bengaluru had no trouble paying the local grocer or the auto rickshaw driver in plastic money.

 But home is where it hurts the most. Back to his Jadavpur residence last week, Basu is surprised to find his   almost useless. “I have Rs 12,500 in my e-wallet.But since I have come to Kol kata, I could only pay app cab fares using it. Even some of the big stationary stores are refusing to accept plastic money . I have borrowed cash from my father,“ says Basu. The day demonetisation was announced, Basu -who lives at CV Raman Nagar in Bengaluru -had just finished paying his house help and car cleaner. “I was left with Rs 1,900 in cash,“ he says. “The first thing I did after hearing the announcement was to check if I had any Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 notes with me. Thankfully , I had just one Rs 500 note. I was relieved.“
 
 His worried father called him soon after, asking what his `cashless' plans were.“It's simple,“ he says. “When I needed vegetables at home, I'd call for it from   by using  . For travelling, I paid with  .“
 
 His car cleaner and maid had bank accounts, so paying their December salaries wasn't an issue either. Engineer Mitrajit Basu, who lives in a ren ted apartment in Kaggadaspura locality with his brother, says: “Before demonetisation, I spent cash only when I had to take short rickshaw rides and for paying the house help, cleaner and the local grocer. That amounted to around Rs 25,000. House rent and payments for movie tickets and restaurants were always made online.“
 
 After notebandi, the local grocer and other shopkeepers in his area had switched to plastic money. Many had started using Paytm and the rest had installed card-swiping machines. “I still had Rs 800 left in my wallet. I never felt the need to go to the bank or an ATM.“
 
 “There are times when I felt like having a cold drink or ice cream or a round of the pub at night. I have a few chaat and snack shacks that don't take plastic money . Earlier, I used to call them to deli ver food or drinks and pay in cash. That's something I don't do any more,“ he said speaking of the challenges. “I think if people spend judiciously they can manage being without cash.“
 
 But his fantasy broke when he came back to his hometown in Kolkata.“The prepaid ticket counter at the airport was not accepting cards and they had no e-wallet transaction feature. I booked an Uber. But then as I got down to buy two packs of cigarettes from a big stationary shop at Baguiati, even they did not had any card or e-wallet system,“ says Basu.
 
 Over the last few days, Basu has tried using cards or e-wallet at several places -the local market, grocery outlets, stationary shops, yellow taxi, auto rickshaws and medicine shops -and turned down everywhere. “I cannot rush to Spencers or Big Bazaar to buy a pack of noodles.“
 
 “Old habits die hard.My city is a perfect example of that. I used to think my parents and friends here were over-reacting to the situation, but now I understand why people were queuing up outside ATMs,“ he says.
 
