BENGALURU: A GPS tracker that can help you tail whomever you want comes cheap and is easy to use. According to merchants, a good tracker, capable of telling you the real-time location, can be bought for anywhere between Rs 6,000 to Rs 9,000. 

 “The demand for these products has increased over the years, particularly after a court order mandated   be installed in school vehicles and cabs,” said a merchant in SP Road.
 
 While most of these purchases for cabs and school buses are made in bulk, there are customers who are buying these products for their personal vehicles too. “With smartphones, it’s easy to track the vehicle using a mobile app. This too has led to an increase in demand,” he added.
 
 But all this doesn’t end with tracking vehicles alone. There are mobile apps which can track and even spy on others’  . These mobile applications, which can be purchased from app stores, websites and even some detective agencies, come with features that can be worrisome.
 
 Marketed as a parenting tool, several mobile applications can track the location of a  . Over the years, the demand for the products has increased and from a child-tracking product, it has become a partner-tracking device. The clear change in the marking of these products reflects this.
 
 From marketing campaigns like, ‘Keep your family safe’, ads have now become straightforward, even claiming to be able to keep track of your partner. Many of the apps available now can read the messages from a person’s mobile phone and even have access to the conversations. However, these services come for a cost of Rs 40,000 to Rs 70,000.
 
 According to a senior police officer, the legality of these services is still a grey area. While police demand   for cabs and school buses, they can’t be denied for private vehicles, as they could be ostensibly used as an anti-theft device.
 
 However, mobile phone tracking is allowed as long as the person being tracked concurs. “But spying on your partner or anyone else can invite a case under several sections of the IT Act, if the person being tailed files a police complaint,” said a senior police officer.
 
