(Cleared/ Gopa)

 With the temperature hovering around 38 degree Celsius in the district, the heat has begun to take a toll on the   of   people. Their frequency of check-ups has increased and several   ailments have also surfaced, say doctors. 
 
 Many elderly patients turning up for monthly check-up with their doctors have been making at least three visits to the hospital in the past two weeks. Doctors say this is because the rising afternoon temperature affects senior citizens more than the others.
 
 Says geriatrician Dr N Raja, ``Usually, elderly patients come for monthly check-ups for their diabetes or hypertension, but now three of ten patients come for heat-related issues like urinary infection.’’ 
 
 Heat strokes affect the older people more as their body conditions do not adjust to the sudden change in temperature. Doctors say some of them may not show any warning signs and suddenly slump in the place they are sitting or resting. The afternoon temperatures in Madurai are usually lower in the month of March and start rising in April. 
 
 Dr Raja says that the main reason for elderly people developing health issues with the increase in temperatures is malfunctioning of the sweat mechanism. Their body temperatures continue to rise as they do not sweat as much as required to cool the body. Also, the thirst mechanism will be suppressed and some of them will get dehydrated easily as they do not feel thirst and avoid drinking water.
 
 What is important is that the older people have to drink not just water, but liquids like lime water to maintain the electrolytes in the body. ``They have to drink at least two litres of fluid and not just water,’’ he said. As elders take drugs for diabetes and hypertension, dehydration could lead to a drop in the blood pressure causing them to faint. So such persons should be monitored regularly, he said.
 
 Head of the Department of Medicine, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, Dr P Krishnamoorthy said that one thing that should be adhered to strictly is the timing of walking. ``It is the elders who usually go for morning and evening walks. They should avoid going for walks between 8 a.m and 6 p.m,’’ he said. Drinking chilled water from refrigerators is not advisable. Instead, have water from mud pots. 
 
 
