Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea against illegal dumping of the remains of dead animals into the forest and a water channel by a slaughterhouse in Mewat district. A division bench headed by justice A K Mittal issued the notices to state’s additional chief secretary (environment), Haryana Pollution Control Board, local authorities in Mewat and the proprietor of the slaughterhouse after hearing a petition filed by Jakir, 38, a resident of Kotla in Mewat district.

 The petitioner has sought directions to protect environment and seeks to stop illegal dumping of dung and flesh of the animals in the forest and   distributary by the proprietors of slaughterhouse AOV Agro Food Private Limited.
 
 The bench was visibly upset after going through the photographs produced by the petitioner regarding the pollution caused by the dumping of dung and meat from the slaughterhouse. The court observed that the authorities should send the supervising officers on the spot for inspection and submit a report. The case would now come up for further hearing on October 7.
 
 The petitioner submitted before the HC that residents of dozens villages irrigate their fields with the water of Nuh distributary and fill up ponds. Due to dumping of dirty meat in the forest and the distributary by the employees of slaughterhouse, residents were apprehensive of outbreak of epidemic in the area.
 
 “Due to this behaviour of the company, health of the residents has been compromised. Not only this, the residents of the village are hesitating to irrigate their fields, to fill up the ponds and to give water from the distributary to their animals. Due to flies on dirty meat, there are strong apprehensions that it may cause the diseases of aspiration, lungs and of other various kinds in the villages”, argued the petitioner.
 
 It was also stated that complaints were made to Mewat police, irrigation department and district civil surgeon by the residents and villagers but no action has been taken till date.
 
 
