KOLKATA: In India, engineering agencies responsible for delivering products and services do not give any quality assurance, so the question of lack of reliability remains a blind spot. The idea struck IIT-Khargpur faculty members when they visited Kolkata to find out the reason behind   flyover collapse. And prompt came the solution. The institute has come up with an all new school of study, which is a first of its kind in the country. 

 The School of Quality and Reliability (Q&R) will start operating from the academic session beginning August. The idea is to bring every student — right from the undergraduate level — within its fold so that quality assurance becomes a part of the overall academic training. Modules on quality and reliability will be designed in the school with an eye on engineering processes and their impact on environment and life in general. All the different application domains in each discipline will be addressed by the Q&R school so that each student of a discipline leaves the gates of the institute with the guarantee that he is “quality assured” and can be “relied upon”.
 
 “Quality affects not only products and services. One has to understand that lack of it can cause life risks. It is crucial for us to introduce the domain of quality in formal engineering education so that our students, as trained quality conscious, applies their training while designing end products. This will automatically see an overall improvement in the quality of life of people,” said IIT-Kharagpur director Partha Pratim Chakraborty. 
 
 The school is the brain child of  , an alumnus who is globally recognized as a quality guru. Chowdhury runs the US-based ASI   and much like Vinod Gupta, who started a school of management (VGSOM) at his alma mater, had dreamt of setting up a quality school. Chowdhury has donated a $1 million for the school from Subir & Malini Chowdhury Foundation. The institute has organized for a matching amount.
 
 “Though IITs churn out top engineers, so long their degrees did not train them on ‘quality assurance’ as part of their ‘personal responsibility’. So while they are versed in theory and have enough practical knowledge, the quality processes taught need a thorough upgrade,” Chowdhury said. 
 
 The ASI Consulting Group is drawing best brains from the industry to work with faculty members of the different engineering disciplines to draw up academic materials, labs and hire fresh faculty for the school. While the modules will be introduced as a year-long programme all to BTech students to start with, gradually MTech and MS in quality and reliability engineering will develop as an independent discipline, expectedly from the 2018-19 academic session. Dual degree programmes from the BTech level will also start then, informed Chakraborty. 
 
