MUMBAI: The   issued an order on Wednesday terminating its agreement with   (HHPL), and asked it to hand over possession of the premises--two floors within the NMMC hospital in Vashi --within a month. Commissioner   also directed HHPL not to admit new patients from the date of the order. “Breach of agreement has been proved on all accounts. While HHPL services were sought for super-speciality, even non-speciality services were being provided,“ said additional commissioner Ramesh Chavan. The findings were based on site inspection con ducted by a team of civic officials on September 27, 2016 where it was concluded that of the150 beds only 46 beds had patients availing super-speciality treatment.

 “Around 60% of patients were availing non-speciality treatment on chargeable basis when the same service NMMC is providing for free of cost,“ Chavan added. The order came a month after Mundhe held a hearing on the matter. Earlier on November18, 2016, the administration issued a show cause notice to HHPL. Later, HHPL filed a writ in the  . “The court allowed NMMC to act in accordance with the law following which a hearing was held on December 23, 2016,“ Chavan added.
 
 NMMC terminated the agreement with HHPL primarily on three grounds--failure to operate a purely super-speciality hospital, indirect transfer and assignment of obligation and duties to Fortis Healthcare Ltd and displaying the name `Fortis' instead of `Hiranandani' hospital at vantage points. NMMC had entered into an agreement with Hiranandani Healthcare in 2006 for superspeciality facilities as it didn't have the expertise to provide the same. Accordingly , the fourth and fifth floors of the NMMC hospital building in Vashi were decided to be used for the purpose.
 
 However, HHPL sub-let the property to Fortis, without the civic body's consent. “While the agreement of NMMC is with HHPL, the hospital is run entirely by Fortis Healthcare Ltd. Through inspection it has emerged that the corporation's land had been commercialized for earning profit which was never the intention of NMMC,“ said an official.
 
 Corporators have frequently alleged that unfair means were used to lease the property to HHPL in both general body as well as standing committee meetings. The termination order has its source in a PIL filed by activist   in 2005, alleging plots meant for charitable hospitals were being fraudulently leased to set up commercial interests. He also made a submission in 2010 against NMMC's contract with HHPL, which NMMC acted against the New Bombay Land Disposal Act of 1975 by leasing out a plot meant for charitable purposes to commercial entity .It prompted HC to rap Cidco.
 
 The matter eventually gained momentum after Cidco in January 2016 terminated its lease agreement with NMMC for alleged breach of terms and conditions by subletting the civic hospital premises to a private party . “This was the trigger for NMMC to get its act together. It was directed by the urban development department to act as per law, following which NMMC conducted a site inspection of the hospital wherein all the violations were observed,“ said a source.
 
 
