MYSURU: With Chamundi patrolling vehicles zooming up and down, students of Maharani’s College, which has nearly 10,000  , feel safe commuting between home and college in  .

 The patrol, an initiative of Mysuru City police, is a deterrent to stalkers, roadside Romeos and other miscreants who trouble girls on their way to college.
 
 Before the exclusive patrolling vehicles began doing the rounds, an all-woman police team, except the driver, ensure   to women near bus stops, stands and near colleges was on the streets to prevent any misbehavior with girls walking from bus stops to college, or home.
 
 JP Jayashree, final-year BSc student at Maharani’s College, said, “The girls feel safe after police jumped to our rescue. I had helped my college mates who were being harassed by a youth just outside our college by tipping off a policewoman attached to the patrol vehicle. The very next day, the harassment stopped as police identified the youth and warned him of action.”
 
 NR Rakshitha, final-year BSc student, were annoyed with a bunch of bike-borne youths standing outside the college gate during the opening and closing hours of college. They would stand and stare at the girls, who are now happy that the Chamundi force has solved their problem by 70%.
 
 Anusha HU, another student, wanted police to deploy additional patrol vehicles as some boys arrive soon after the police vehicle leaves the spot. If police add more vehicles, it will help the girls, she said.
 
 English department HoD M Nethravathi told TOI that students feel safe and secure as police have helped them by warning the miscreants. Usually the cops visit the college twice a day and sometimes stay till 6pm on the college campus.
 
 “We warn youths if they unnecessarily trouble girls outside their colleges and near bus stops. If they continue to trouble them, action will be taken against the wrongdoers. We have also educated students not spend time aimlessly outside the college and instead suggested that they go to the library,” said CCB ACP Gopal said.
 
 
