GURGAON: Commuters will have to wait a bit longer for a smooth and snarl-free drive across the city. 

 Having missed the first deadline of December 31, the   of Gurgaon (MCG) has now set a new time limit - till July 15 - to repair all broken roads across Gurgaon, and spare citizens the nightmarish experience of city traffic.
 
 If MCG officials are to be believed, the corporation has managed to remove all hurdles, mostly bureaucratic, to put the ambitious project on the fast track. Under the Rs 104-crore project, a total of 250km roads will be built or repaired to ensure bump-free drive across the city.
 
 "We have allotted the work (to various agencies) and the roads will be ready by June 15," MCG commissioner T.L. Satyaprakash said, adding that emphasise would be on the quality of work to ensure durability of the roads.
 
 Asked about the delay, Satyaprakash said there were some practical problems that posed hurdles for speedy execution of the project. "We, however, have now managed to address those issues and the work is on the fast track," he said.
 
 The project was announced by chief minister   in the wake of a massive traffic snarl in July 2016 when thousands of commuters found themselves stuck in an unprecedented traffic chaos near   and on Sohna Road, which put commuters in trouble for several hours.
 
 To prevent a recurrence of a similar situation, the civic body had then decided to repair all crater-riddled roads and build new stretches across the city. Some of the worst-affected stretches, which are being taken up under the initiative, are Sector 40 main sectorial road, NH-8 service road near Airtel, multiple internal roads in Sushant Lok, Sector 5, and the stretch connecting Hero Honda Chowk with Sector 10A. These apart, the stretch near Vodafone Belvedere towers in the Cyber city and   between Sector 23 intersection and Gurgaon One crossing also need repairs.
 
 "I can bet that there is not a single road, which is not broken, across Sushant Lok . All are in a shambles. And the funniest thing is whenever we approach the authorities, they say the area does not fall under their jurisdiction," said Akash Singh Chauhan, a Sector 23 resident, who works with Convergys. 
 
 
