Sunitha.Rao

 Bengaluru: Attempts to construct a temple on the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Government High School campus in Wilson Garden are several years old, transport minister Ramalinga Reddy, who studied class 3 and 4 in 1960-62 in adjacent Government Primary School, revealed.
 
 “As long as I was the district in-charge minister till a couple of years ago, I used to get several requests to allow a temple to be built on the school campus, but I put my foot down and said no,” Reddy told TOI. Contributions from Reddy’s development fund, in fact, were used to build the school a couple of decades ago.
 
 But after Reddy’s exit as in-charge minister, things eased for those who wanted the temple. The construction on about 20ft by 30ft area in front of the high school was monitored by a certain Ravichandra, husband of former corporator Vasantha Ravichandra. 
 
 “It’s the people of this area who want this temple. The statues of the deities have been at the ashwathkatte (platform around peepal tree) for more than 100 years. We have safeguarded the deities in the school sump. The temple will not cause any disturbance to the school. It will cost about Rs 25 lakh and all funds have come from the public,” Ravichandra said, before the Lokayukta intervened.
 
 Asked about plan sanctions and other approvals, he said, “We don’t need any plan sanction. It’s not government land. It was donated by someone to the government.” 
 
 The construction will be completed during summer and the temple will be named ‘Shesha Sai Mandira’, he said.
 
 When TOI contacted Chickpet MLA RV Devaraj, he said he had not given any funds for the construction of the temple. “As I know, there was a peepal tree there even before the school came into existence. The land was donated to the government by a rich landlord. School begins at 10am. The temple will not cause any disturbance to the school as it opens at 5am and closes by 8am. The public wants a temple there,” he claimed.
 
 TIMES VIEW 
 
 Kudos to the young activists of a government school for pointing out a grave wrongdoing on their campus, and also asserting their rights. Essentially, it is a conflict between children and adults, and the latter should realize that they are infringing students’ rights to play and move freely on campus. Local politicians, no doubt, have votes in mind as they go about brazenly encroaching a school ground for their selfish ends. While the Lokayukta has taken the first step in the right direction by stopping work, BBMP should act strictly by the rules and not be cowed by politicians and temple advocates.
 
 
