 / SHABBIRPUR: Soon after assuming their respective charges both the district magistrate (DM) of Saharanpur, Pramod   and senior   (SSP)   rushed to Shabbirpur on Thursday to visit the   on May 5 and May 23.
 
  They both visited every affected home in the village and appealed to the masses to observe restraint. Speaking to TOI, DM Pandey said, “There appears to be a pattern in the recurring violence but we are looking into every angle and until the investigations are over, it would not be appropriate to elaborate on it further.”
  
  However, at many places women confronted the two top officials demanding immediate release of their “innocent” boys.  , a local Thakur resident, said, “The authorities themselves are of the firm belief that outsiders came into the village on both instances and perpetrated violence here. Then why are our sons in jail?”
  
  Similarly, a Dalit woman, Kusum Devi, said, “Eight boys from our community are in jail despite the fact that our homes were burnt on May 5. Is this justice? And because of fear of police many of our youths are staying away from the village.”
  
  In all, 17 youths were arrested in the May 5 violence. Eight are from the Dalit community and nine are Thakurs.
  
  SSP Babloo Kumar said, “I have just taken charge of the district and one thing that I can assure the people of Saharanpur in general and Shabbirpur in particular is that we are going to be as transparent as possible. Not a single person who is innocent will harassed in any way. We are in the process of a proper screening to study the cases of those in jail.”
  
  Kumar also said that his primary aim would be to bridge the trust gap among two communities. “I have witnessed a huge amount of mistrust between the two communities and our primary aim is to bridge that gap through constant and regular meetings. I am sure compromise will be arrived at.”
  
  During their survey of the village, the victims of violence elaborately exhibited their charred homes and belongings after which Pandey directed the concerned officials to expedite the loss-survey process in order to initiate compensation process.
