Launched in September 2012, Times Celebex is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of February 2017.

  and   top the Times Celebex powered by Zoom list for the month of February 2017
 Akshay Kumar was in the news for the positive response to his turn as a lawyer and a dutiful husband in Subhash Kapoor’s 
 Jolly LLB 2. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Saif Ali Khan - Leaps from the 42nd rank to the 18th rank -He made news for his role in 'Rangoon'.
  - Leaps from the 34th rank to the 17th rank - His performance in 'Irada' garnered appreciation. 
  - Leaps from the 22nd rank to the 9th rank - He was talked about for his film 'The Ghazi Attack'.
 
  
  
 
 
 Ayushmann Khurrana generated buzz for his next with Bhumi Pednekar.
  was in the news for his turn in the film 'Irada'. 
 Harshvardhan Kapoor made headlines for making his displeasure felt over not winning an award. 
 
 
  Sunil Grover, Ali Zafar, Jimmy Sheirgill, Gurmeet Choudhary
 
  
  
 Deepika Padukone was in the news for the on-going international promotions of her first Hollywood outing, 'xXx: Return of Xander Cage'.
 
  
  
 
 
 Kangana Ranaut - Leaps from the 47th rank to the 16th rank - She was in the news for 'Rangoon'.
  - Leaps from the 49th rank to the 29th rank - She made news for her film with 'Dhanush'. 
  - Leaps from the 15th rank to the 3rd rank - She made news for her comeback in 'Jolly LLB 2'.
 
  
  
 
 
 Taapsee Pannu made news for her upcoming film 'Naam Shabana'.
  was in the headlines for the impending film debut of her daughter Jhanvi and her film, 'Mom'.
 Kiara Advani was in the headlines for her film 'Machine'.
 
 
 
  Zareen Khan, Daisy Shah, Lisa Haydon
 
 
 
 
 
 The box-office of 'Raees' kept him in the news. 
 
 
 He garnered buzz for his turn as a soldier in 'Rangoon'.
 
 
  He was talked about for 'Kaabil’s box-office and his reunion of sorts with wife Sussanne Khan. 
 
 
 He was in the news for his endorsements and the sequel to 'Ek Tha Tiger'. 
 
 
  He made news for endorsements and for the screening of 'Pink' in Rashtrapati Bhavan.
 
 
 He was in the news for sweeping top awards for his turn in 'Dangal'.
 
 
 He was in the news for his endorsements and his upcoming films.
 
 
 He made news for the upcoming sequel to 'Baahubali' and 'The Ghazi Attack'.
 
 
  He grabbed headlines for his film, 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania.
 
 
  She was in the news for her appearance on a popular celebrity chat show hosted by Karan Johar. 
 
 
 She was in the headlines for her performance in 'Jolly LLB 2' opposite Akshay Kumar.
 
 
 She made news for her upcoming film 'Drive' with Sushant Singh Rajput.Sonam Kapoor: She made headlines with her pictures with businessman Anand Ahuja.
 
 
 She made news for flagging off 'Ittefaq’s remake and knocking off weight.
 
 
  She was in the news for grabbing Dibakar Banerjee’s next with Arjun Kapoor.
 
 
  She made news for flagging off promotions of her second home production, 'Phillauri'. 
 
 
  She was in the news for the reviews she received for her act in 'Kaabil' opposite Hrithik Roshan. 
 
 
 She made news for her film 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' and moving into her new apartment.
 
  
  
 
