PUNE: The second-year Bachelor of Arts distance education students at   were handed an out-of-syllabus English   on Wednesday morning. The resultant confusion caused a 40-minute delay in the examination.

 The online agency in-charge of e-mailing question papers to all exam centres mistakenly sent the paper meant for students of the regular course. After the error was brought to the notice of the exam centre heads, it was reported to the open university and the university officials emailed a new question paper after 30 minutes. The exam, which was to begin at 11am, was eventually re-scheduled for 11.40am due to the confusion.
 
 As per procedure, the centre receives the question paper an hour before the exam. Officials at the centre print out the question papers and distribute them among students. 
 
 College principal   said, “The varsity had issued the correct question paper. However, the glitch occurred due to the online agency that sends the paper to all exam centres. They issued the paper meant for the regular course, which created the confusion.”
 
 Students were clearly surprised on receiving a paper that featured a different pattern and questions.  , a student, said, “Some students in the exam hall discussed the matter with the supervisor. Other exam halls also came across similar complaints so the supervisor reported the matter to the head of the centre.”
 
 Jumle explained that the staff contacted the varsity’s Mumbai office to inform them about the issue. “In the next 30 minutes, we received the correct question paper and the print outs were distributed among students. About 30 to 40 minutes were lost in the process and so extra time was allotted to students.”
 
 Even on Tuesday there was confusion regarding filling up of details about students in the answer sheets. Supervisors told students about the exact procedure after they saw that students were not following the prescribed format, Jumle said. Students, who had filled in wrong details, were issued fresh answers sheets so they would be able to re-enter details in the correct format.
 
