This weekend, Indore’s skies will be dotted with   of myriad shapes and sizes. The onset of  , which falls 
 , will herald celebrations galore. While quirky would be an understatement for the kinds of kites that have hit the market this time, Indoreans are more so planning to 
celebrate responsibly, with the   on use of manja still on. Here’s taking stalk of the celebrations in store and measures to ensure safety of the environment as well. 
 
 
 
 
 We’ve come across those trendy wallets fashioned around the new currency notes introduced post demonetisation. Looks like the new currency fashion is here to stay for a while though. Move over quirky cartoon-print kites. Kites fashioned around the newly introduced `500 and `2000 notes are catching the attention of shoppers this time. Praveen Rathaur, third generation partner of a kite manufacturing business in the city, shares, “These kites have taken the market by storm this time. Besides these, there are those bearing messages, like Swacch Bharat, Swasth Bharat and Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, which are also in demand this season.”
 
 
 
 
 Kite-flying calls for an occasion to boast of the most intricate shapes and designs. The markets are filled with a host of interesting kites. Pranamya Patel, a kite vendor, informs, “We have ones shaped like birds and rockets. These are particularly popular among the little ones, and cost anything starting from `20.” There are the more detailed ones made from a fine cloth as well, ranging between `20 and `200 in cost.
 
 
 
 
 P Narhari, collector of Indore, informed, “A complete ban has been imposed by the NGT ( ) on the buying, selling and usage of Chinese and glass-coated manja, since it poses a threat to the birds, the environment and human beings too. In order to ensure that this is followed, 
 random inspections are being conducted across shops selling kites to ensure that no vendor is still selling Chinese manja. If anyone is found still selling it, strict action would be taken.”
 
 
 
 
 After the festivities, manja is often left attached to tree branches, poles and rooftops. These continue to pose a threat to animals, birds and even and human lives. Ornithologist Dev Kumar Vasudevan shares, “On a recent trip to Sirpur Lake, we were horrified to see a night heron stuck high up in a tamarind tree, entangled in deadly glass-coated manja. Luckily, some labourers were passing by, and one of them volunteered to rescue the bird. Thousands of birds and small animals end up getting injured during the kite-flying season, and often, there’s no timely medical attention available. There are horrifying statistics of birds getting injured or killed by manja during the kite-flying season. It’s great to see the ban being implemented strictly in Indore.”
 
 
 
 
 According to kite vendors who specialise in making and selling manja, the locally-made manja is prepared from cotton, and unlike the Chinese manja, it isn’t as sharp, and is biodegradable. It can be broken easily and is less likely to cause grave injury. It makes for a safer alternative while flying kites.
 
 
 
 
 Priyanshu Prashant Jain, a facilitator of a city mobile animal clinic, informs, “Our ambulance will be actively functional from 
 . We urge people not to fly kites between 
  as most of the birds fly back to their respective habitats during this time. People must report cases of injured birds or animals as soon as possible so that timely treatment can be given.” One can contact 9479713971 to avail of the animal ambulance service. 
 
 
 
