A good night’s sleep has been long considered as an indispensable beauty aid. Not only does it enhance appearance by reducing under-eye dark circles and giving a radiant glow to your skin, but also acts at a subtle level by keeping the mind and body fit.   leads to increased  , a precursor to   (1). It lowers good cholesterol (2), may reduce the prospect of breast cancer survival (3). Brain activity during sleep is also elemental to memory formation and consolidation (4). 

 Studies suggest that one night’s sleep deprivation is as detrimental to insulin sensitivity as six months on a high fat diet. In other words, the body has to produce more insulin to keep the blood sugar stable. Unstable blood sugar results in Type-2 diabetes. Ostensibly, it can also result in increased food consumption and an overall increased risk for metabolic diseases (1). 
 
 Previous cardiac studies suggest that lack of sleep may aggravate cardiovascular disease (2). Currently researchers have proved that sleep loss leads to reduced activity in genes responsible for regulating cholesterol levels. It interferes with the capacity of the body to maintain healthy HDL cholesterol level. HDL is the good cholesterol that helps remove LDL, the bad cholesterol from the body. More LDL in the heart can block arteries and increase the risk of heart attacks (2).
  
 Experimental studies have proven that just 1 week of insufficient sleep begins to change the body’s immune response and metabolism (2). Studies on cancer have found that sleep problems may boost tumor growth and reduce cancer survival (3).
  
 All these assert the importance of a good night’s sleep. Sleep is critical in maintaining the equilibrium in the body. The only way to ensure that you get sufficient sleep is to actually spend that time sleeping. Sufficiency of sleep is subjective. The accepted average is 7-8 hours of uninterrupted sleep every night. Ideally, every person knows how much sleep is actually required by him/her. Be aware of your “subjective sleep sufficiency” and ensure you find sufficient sleep everyday of your life. 
 
 A beautiful skin, dazzling eyes, a strong loving heart, a brilliant brain and a fit body. All these can be yours for just a few hours of sleep. Make sleep a top health priority.
 
 Good night, Sleep tight.
 
 
 
 
 
