ALLAHABAD: The   on Monday directed   and state authorities to maintain law and order and facilitate registered voters to freely cast their votes in Kairana of Shamli district and other   of   in the Assembly elections.

 The court passed the order when an application was moved in an ongoing PIL seeking CBI probe into mass exodus of Hindus from Kairana, alleging that goons were threatening Hindus that if a particular party won from this area, they should move out or face loss of property and life.
 
 Appearing for the petitioner in the PIL, his counsel V C Mishra requested the court to provide adequate security to the Hindus so as to protect their life and property and also facilitate them cast their vote fairly and freely in the Assembly polls. 
 
 It was also requested in the PIL that either votes of migrated Hindus be transferred to the places where they have been shifted or a separate booth be provided in Kairana with full security so that they may cast their votes without fear. 
 
 Today, when the PIL filed by a social worker Lokesh Kumar Khurana was taken up by the court, a request was made on behalf of the state government to grant it further time as its officials are busy in doing election duty. 
 
 While conceding the state’s request, a division bench comprising Justice Vimlesh Kumar Shukla and Justice Sangeeta Chandra directed the state government to file reply (counter affidavit) within six weeks and fixed March 21 as the next date of hearing. 
 
 On an earlier date, the court had directed the state government to apprise it within two weeks about the steps taken to ensure safety of Hindus in Kairana. The court had also asked the state government to inform it about the whereabouts of the families that had left Kairana fearing communal violence and what was done to ensure their safety and facilitate their return.
 
 It was alleged in the PIL that the ‘majority community’ in Kairana was committing crimes in the name of ‘jihad’ and such criminals were being called as ‘jihadis’. Hence, if no immediate steps were taken, places like Kairana will become another Kashmir where only one community resides after ousting the rest. The state police was not investigating the issue fairly under political pressure, the PIL had added.
 
 The PIL had alleged that Hindus have become target of communal violence, specially in areas where they were in a minority, due to the appeasement policy of the state government. Many Hindu families had left such areas. Kairana is one such example where mass exodus of Hindus had taken place and as many as 346 Hindu families left the locality, it was argued.
 
 It was also alleged in the PIL that though the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) had taken cognizance of Kairana incident and even issued notices to UP DGP and chief secretary to appear in the case, neither the officials were assisting the commission, nor were they appearing before it.
 
 A request was also made in the PIL to direct the Union ministry of home affairs to take cognizance of such incidents and take action in accordance with law. 
 
 Central government, through its principal secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh government through its chief secretary, principal secretary (home) and DGP, DM and SP of Shamli and DM and SSP of Muzaffarnagar have been arrayed as respondents in the PIL. 
 
 With a majority Muslim population, Kairana had witnessed communal riots in 2013.
 
 
