MARGAO: “You are here to care for the safety of human lives, not to protect the interests of the mining lobby. People are losing their lives on killer mining roads and you allow mining transportation to violate all norms with impunity. We have lost all our patience. It’s nothing but mining terror that happens on the roads. You are forcing us to become terrorists. If the situation continues, don’t blame villagers if they take to guns in the near future,” an agitated  , convener of Mission Bypasss, a front for people affected by mining, told Quepem deputy collector  , on Wednesday. 

 Kakodkar was leading a group of villagers from Cavrem and surrounding areas, protesting “reckless” and “unregulated” mining transportation through the villages. 
 
 His assertion summed up the mood prevalent in South Goa’s mining belt at a time when mining activities have only just begun after a three-year-long hiatus. 
 
 On their part, villagers told the Quepem deputy collector how trucks transporting mineral ore drive through their locales at breakneck speed. “Just today morning, a mining truck would have mowed down my wife and daughter, but they had a miraculous escape,” a Cavrem local told Shirodkar. Kakodkar also pointed out that several minor migrant people are found to be illegally driving trucks, while the authorities turn a blind eye. 
 
 The Mission Bypass convener further told Shirodkar that all the directives he’d issued to mining companies in December last year were being violated with gross impunity. He said that although people were assured of a cap of 150 trips by mining trucks along the Quepem-Tilamol-Curchorem road on a daily basis, no such restriction was enforced. 
 
 “We have reason to believe that the authorities are hand-in-glove with the mining lobby and have no concern for the wellbeing of citizens using these roads,” Kakodkar said. 
 
 Shirodkar, however, failed to provide any assurance of action against mining companies for violating his directives with respect to trip restrictions, overloading and overspeeding. 
 
 James Fernandes, Sanjit Dessai, Joao Fernandes and   were among the others who participated in the discussion.
 
 Mission Bypass has now decided to confront the   and the directorate of mines and demand an explanation to the issues raised by it. 
 
