MANALI: Ahead of the assembly polls in  , the sales of green and maroon caps, which represent Congress and   respectively, have gone up. There is an increasing demand of these caps among the party leaders, campaigners and followers.

 "The demand has increased by 30% to 40%. It is expected to increase further in the coming month. We have also increased the production of the caps of both the colours," said one of the cap sellers in Kullu Devi Ram.
 
 Himachali caps are donned by a large number of people across the state, especially by the elderly citizens. The sale of Himachali caps generally go up at the peak of tourist season in May and June.
 
 However, it has been a trend in Himachal for many years that workers of BJP and Congress wear the cap representing a particular political party to show their support towards former chief minister from BJP Prem Kumar Dhumal and present chief minister   of Congress.
 
 With the elections around the corner, most people including the youngsters are wearing these Himachali caps. The campaigners can be identified by the colours of their caps. Now, given the huge demand of the caps, the weavers have increased the production too.
 
 According to Budhi Singh, a cap seller from  , the hometown of present chief minister, the entire region has "almost no demand of maroon caps". However, there is a high demand for green caps throughout the year. "Majority of the population here supports Virbhadra and Congress. The green coloured cap is our traditional cap, which is also worn by the people of Kinnaur. This cap is synonymous as Virbhadra Singh’s cap. Since elections are coming up, the demand of caps has also increased," he said.
 
 According to the senior citizens, Himachali caps had no political connection until Dhumal started wearing the maroon cap. At present, the followers of Congress never don the maroon cap whereas the BJP followers maintain a clear distance from the green Himachali cap. A few days back, Virbhadra Singh had refused to wear a maroon coloured cap and had thrown it on the table in the presence of union health minister JP Nadda.
 
 "I am selling approximately 10 to 30 caps on an average. Those who do not want to openly support a particular party are going for caps in different colours," said shopkeeper Jayant Kumar.
 
