JAIPUR: The state government’s efforts to settle the quota demand of the Special Backward Classes (SBC) received a jolt on Wednesday, as Gujjar leaders boycotted the meeting called on the subject by a cabinet sub-committee. The   led by   accused the state government of backtracking on its promises made in past meetings and renewed their demand for separate SBC quota within the 50% limit.

 The Rajasthan Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti even talked of re-launching the agitation for reservation if its demands remained unfulfilled.
 
 “We boycotted today’s meeting since the government backtracked on its promise to give appointments to candidates already selected against the SBC quota,” Bainsla, who heads the Samiti, told TOI. Samiti’s spokesperson Himmat Singh Gurjar said the cabinet sub-committee assured at an earlier meeting that nearly 4000 SBC candidates selected for different posts would be given appointment letters but the government failed to do so. “In fact, three candidates were given joining letters earlier this month but the government has now withdrawn these,” said Gurjar. He added that criminal cases against Gujjars booked in previous agitations were not withdrawn as promised. “Eighteen of our people were convicted at Ramganj-Mandi (Kota) three days ago as the government misled us,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The sub-committee comprising cabinet ministers Arun Chaturvedi, Rajendra Rathore and Hem Singh Bhadana held discussions with government officials and advocate general N M Lodha, as the Gujjar leaders declined to attend the meeting. All three ministers, who have been vocal on the subject so far, remained tight lipped to reporters’ queries about the meeting on Wednesday. The social justice and empowerment department later issued a statement saying the state government was committed to its assurance on the ‘appointments that were in the pipeline’. The government claimed it would get the SBC quota legally restored.
 
 The Rajasthan high court struck down the SBC quota in December 2016 and the state government failed to get a stay from the  . Following this, the Gujjars and four other communities in SBC category have been caught in an unusual state.
 
 These communities were earlier covered under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, which is entitled to 21% quota in government jobs and education institutes. In the 2015, the Vasundhara Raje-government removed these five communities from the OBC category and granted them 5% separate quota by creating the SBC category. Now, with the SBC quota stuck in courts and the OBC benefits being withdrawn by the state government, the Gujjars and others were currently getting no reservation benefits.
 
 “We want restoration of OBC status as well as 1% SBC quota, which is legal. As a permanent solution, we now want bifurcation of the OBC category to accommodate our demand for 5% separate quota within the 50% limit set by the Supreme Court,” said Gurjar, the Samiti spokesperson.
 
