PUNE: With new captain   at the helm and MS Dhoni playing without the captain's tag, the   (RPS) would be anxious about cross their first hurdle -   - as they begin their campaign in this edition of the   on Thursday.

 Dhoni had an eight-year stint at Chennai Super Kings (CSK), who were kicked out from the league for two years by the Supreme Court after the spot-fixing scandal. However, in their first season together last year, Dhoni and RPS looked like a couple forced to stay together.
 
 Dhoni, who had never let CSK finish out of top-four in eight years, could manage only five wins from 14 games as RPSG's skipper last season. They had finished seventh out of eight teams, a clear low for Dhoni.
 
 Smith's relationship with Pune has a large dose of serendipity. He shares a special history with RSP's home venue the MCA Stadium at Gahunje. Other than having played here for the now defunct Pune Warriors, he represented RPS in IPL last year. The Australian's 109 at this venue in their win against India in the first Test in February this year only strengthened his bond with the stadium.
 
 Despite R Ashwin's absence, Smith has two leg-spinners at his disposal South African Imran Tahir and Aussie Adam Zampa - and left-arm orthodox spinner  , who can be a surprise weapon. Kiwi pacer Lockie Ferguson and another Pune regular Ashok Dinda will add to RPS's bowling attack. However, Pune have to zero in on their 'death bowler'. Pune's trump card would be their most expensive buy of the season, Ben Stokes. The English all-rounder, who was bought for a whopping 14 crore by the franchise, will be under pressure to justify his worth. He was seen sweating it out during the practice sessions, making him a sure starter.
 
 Though Pune's bowling isn't too strong on paper, Smith has got some big names in the batting department. The Aussie himself is in the form of his life and Dhoni got runs leading Jharkhand in the Vijay Hazare trophy recently. Ajinkya Rahane, South Africa captain Faf du Plessis, Usman Khawaja and Stokes make a formidable lineup.
 
 For the star-studded and inconsistent visitors Mumbai Indians, skipper Rohit Sharma's return to fitness is a big positive. With names like Hardik Pandya, Ambati Rayudu, Parthiv Patel, Keiron Pollard, the have got enough ammo in the batting department. With the return of left-arm quick Mitchell Johnson in the side, the Mumbai pace attack, which also boasts of 'death bowling' specialist Jasprit Bumrah, looks strong. The presence of off-spinner Harbhajan Singh and legspinner Karn Sharma gives them a decent 'Indian' balance.
 
 Mumbai are expected to see some change in their approach with former Sri Lankan skipper Mahela Jayavardene taking over as coach from Ricky Ponting.
 
 Pune is not among the venues which sees consistent scores in the excess of 160.With former national selector Surendra Bhave drafted in to look after the strip, one can expect more consistency and good bounce like it was during the first ODI against England earlier this year. Though the Test match pitch, an early turner, was reported as 'poor' after the match, things would be different now. The bowlers from either side could stay interested.
 
 
