Nagpur: With the festival of Holi just five days away, roadside shops and vendors on footpaths have mushroomed in the crowded Itwari area and other locations, displaying mounds of colours and festival paraphernalia like masks, water guns and the stylishly packed herbal colours.

 Describing business as dull this year, Anand Jain a wholesaler who supplies to various towns of the region says, “The scary masks and brightly coloured caps made of synthetic plumes are popular. This year there are golden and multicoloured wigs, bird plumes in bright colours but this stuff sells round the year as people buy them for theme parties.”
 
 Jain says that the craze for Herbal colours too is on the wane this year though new ones in the market made with fruits have just arrived. “We have orange, pomegranate and Jamun colours at a cost of Rs40 per 10 gm. They smell nice but people still prefer the kuccha rang or the stronger red and green powders. These are mostly for the fashionable and sophisticated set who buy and gift them.” Sandalwood and Multani Mitti mix is also on the shelves for those who prefer a less boisterous celebrations.
 
 So far the customer is only coming to give the stuff a look says Faiyyaz Khan a stall owner near Shahid Chowk selling water guns. “Politicians are not so popular this year, though for the last two three years we had images of Modi and Kejriwal on water pumps. Cartoon characters continue to be a big hit,” he says.
 
 Scary masks and hairy hand gloves with long nails add excitement to the festival but have a purpose too. “Masks help protect facial skin,” says Suresh Devikar another vendor in Itwari. Half masks covering just eyes are also available in silver, golden and other shiny colours. But this year it is the goggles in various shapes and colours which are a big hit. “These are very popular among kids and youth,” says Devikar. 
 
 As much as the colours and water sprays, funny sounds made from handmade ‘poongi’ and horns add to the fun level. “The pressure horn is used for making these strange sounds. But as it costs around Rs 120 most go for the local carton made poongi which is for just Rs 10,” says Sadir Ali who has set up a stall for just these items.
 
 The patriotic sentiment too is dull during Holi as most products on sale are China made. But vendors from Delhi and UP are here to sell paper caps, indigenous water guns and colour at very low prices. “The dirt cheap prices makes our stuff so attractive,” says Akunsh Soni who has come from Hathras in UP. “Hathras is famous for colours which are strong and safe. We are selling 10gms for Rs 10 and the water gun is for Rs 25. This is so affordable and sales are good.”
 
 
