KOLHAPUR: The  , in a week-long survey, has identified 26 spots across the city where waterlogging takes place   and has   such as laying the   the nullahs to avoid  

 According to the report, waterlogging leads to flood-like situation and affects more than 20,000 families directly. Moreover, grave inconvenience is caused to the citizens due to traffic jams and diversion of the traffic flow.
 
 The identified spots are from areas such as Lakshmipuri, Venus Corner, District Collector Office, Shahupuri, Nagala Park, Jivaba Nana Jadhav Park, Ford Corner, Gokhale College, Gangavesh and some parts from low-lying area of the city.
 
 The report cites incidents of waterlogging in the basement of buildings and people being disconnected from rest of the areas. The civic authorities claim that heavy rains along with increase in water level of Panchganga River leads to waterlogging.
 
 The KMC has drafted a separate report referring to the damage caused to the roads due to waterlogging. Netradip Sarnobat, chief city engineer of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said, “We have undertaken cross drainage works at spots prone to waterlogging. In the recent rains, we observed that cross drains were helping in draining out water effectively. Currently, the work is going on at ZP office and Mahavir College — the area that was inundated during last monsoon season.”
 
 He added, “One reason for waterlogging is the faulty road construction in Integrated Road Development Project. The level of the drains and the road surface is not uniform and this creates problems in draining out water. We have proposed cross draining network in Lakshmipuri for which Rs 40 lakh will be spent.”
 
 The KMC is going to share the survey report with the city traffic police and disaster management cell of the district administration. The traffic police are going to plan the diversions at the places where water gets logged for long hours.
 
 In last five years, the KMC has set up a storm water drainage network of 90km in the low-lying areas and channelised an 8km stretch of nullahs. Despite this waterlogging takes place at many places.
 
 The civic authorities claim that garbage and debris stop the storm water network or nullahs to drain out water effectively. Such situation was observed during recent rains where first lane of Rajarampuri got completely inundated under water.
 
 Every year, the KMC faces a loss of Rs 2 crore due to damage of roads owing to waterlogging. Last year, the roads with total stretch of 49 km were damaged. Once the measures initiated to avoid waterlogging completes, the quality of the roads can be guaranteed.
 
 “The health department is completing the work to clean the nullahs which will help reduce the flooding effect and thereby reduce damages caused to the roads. We are listing number of roads that are recently constructed and are in the defect liability period. It will be totally contractor’s responsibility to repair the damaged roads. We are hopeful that the waterlogging incidents will at least reduce by 50% once the works of cross drains are completed,” said Sarnobat. 
 
 
