Kolhapur: The police will launch a step-by-step drive against motorists without helmets, special inspector general of Kolhapur range, Vishwas Nangre Patil, promised the all-party forum on Thursday.

 Citing figures on road accidents in the Kolhapur range, Patil said that the police will start a drive to spread awareness about traffic norms and enforce the rules in the city. Meanwhile, they have started taking action against errant bikers on state and national highways and city roads.
 
 At the meeting, mayor Hasina Faras said, “Our opinion is that people should use helmets for their safety and not because the police is forcing it upon them. We are aware about our safety and those who are aware will use helmets and police should not have to make it compulsory or fine people for not wearing it.”
 
 MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar said that there is an urgent need to spread awareness about the traffic rules. “Police should emphasise on spreading awareness among people than insist on the use of helmets. All the roads in the city are not wide and police should exclude these roads from action. They can launch the drive on the roads that are accident prone and where people speed. Bad roads and lack of infrastructure is one of the major issues for casue of accidents and we must insist on the government machinery to generate funds for development of roads. Police should also take steps to regularise traffic in the city,” he said.
 
 R K Powar, convenor of the all-party delegation said, “Considering the geographical condition and inconvenience in the use of helmets by bikers, the police officials should take back the decision on implementing compulsory helmets for bikers. We request them to make it compulsory for the areas 10km away from the city.”
 
 Raising objections against the police drive, a member of the delegation, Subhash Vora said, “When the rule is not new, why are the police suddenly making it compulsory? Before making helmets compulsory for bikers to avoid injury, they should go to the root cause and find a way to minimise the accidents by repairing roads and effective traffic management.”
 
 Prakash More, former president of Kolhapur District Bar Association said, “The distance one has to travel from home to office or to other places is hardly 2km to 3km and it causes inconvenience to carry a   for such a short distance. We are of the opinion that the police should not make it compulsory in the city.”
 
 In response to the objection raised by the delegation, Patil said, “After successful implementation of the compulsory helmet drive on the state and national highways in the Kolhapur Range, we decided to implement the drive in the cities. Around 10 days ago, we called a meeting of the police officers from five districts, where it was decided to implement the drive in a phased manner step-by-step. We will initially spread awareness about the use of helmet among the bikers, educate them and then enforce the law. We have already issued notices to the dealers of the motorcycles to ensure that they sell two helmets to those who buy new motorcycles.”
 
 Initially, the focus will be on the roads that are entering in to the city and major roads in the city that are accident prone. “We have identified these roads in the city and will take action against those who ride without helmets. Step-by-step we will spread the drive in the inner parts of the city too,” Patil added.
 
 
