A conversation with   is always interspersed with some soulful singing. Amidst casual renditions of 'Aaj Mere Piya Aavenge' and 'Chaandan Mein', the singer, who has been awarded the  , opened up about his struggle in Mumbai, why he prefers indie music over   and how he’s on a mission to preserve the dying Indian languages and instruments. Excerpts…

 
 I’m 43 and I have been singing professionally only for the last 11 years. So, it was a big surprise when I was told that I’ve been awarded the Padma Shri. I’ve been nominated for it a couple of times before. But to finally receive it is like a dream come true. I’m thrilled that my name is among people who inspire the youth, like Virat Kohli, and musicians I admire, like Anuradha Paudwal. When I was told over the phone about the award, I went silent for a few seconds. I was reminded of my formative years, which were full of surprises and many ups and downs. When I left the comfort of my home in Delhi to make a career in music, not many had trust in me. In fact, even I was in doubt of myself. Now, I’ve been recognised for my work in the same field. I wish my parents were with me; they would have been the happiest.
 
 
 
 I was 13 when I left my home to pursue music professionally. My parents didn’t think I could make a career out of my passion. They thought only engineers and doctors earned well. For them, music was a waste of time. People surrender to life and take up things they don’t love. I wanted to prove everyone wrong. Maine unse kaha ki main unko apna chehra tabhi dikhaaonga jab main kamyab ho jaaonga. I approached a few masters to learn music, but they told me I wasn’t cut out to be a singer. I was dejected and demotivated. But when I sang, I felt nice. That’s when I decided I wouldn’t give up, no matter what. I sang nirgun sangeet, called Sufi in a layman’s term. Today, I’ve sung more than 1,000 songs in various languages and have also done more than 1,000 live concerts and 500 jingles.
 
 
 Even if I record one song in a year, I want it to be good. I’d sung just one word — Subhanallah — in Chand Sifarish (Fanaa), but I won a Filmfare award for it. I’m grateful to God for keeping me busy. I’ve been doing concerts with my band 'Kailasa'. That’s more impactful than singing several songs just for the sake of it. I’ve had the opportunity to be a part of music festivals across the globe, where legends like ' ' have performed. I remember people were waiting from 7 am for an afternoon concert at the Stern Grove Festival in San Francisco. I’m gearing up for the World Music Festival in Udaipur. Also, there are not many who support indie music. Big labels and production houses back film music, but people don’t realise that India’s music is vast, and films are just a small part of it. Film music is like rabdi, a mix of folk, classical and even international music.
 
 
 I’ve supported NGOs, colleges and associations that lack sponsors. The idea is to take 'Kailasa’s music to every corner of the globe, because I believe that awakening through music is bigger than entertaining. I’ve always educated people at my concerts about the importance of civic sense and following traffic rules. I’ve been vocal about the need for a separate ambulance lane on roads. When PM   nominated me to carry forward the Swachh Bharat campaign, it encouraged me to do more. 
 
 
 For me, music is beyond region and religion. Asli bhasha toh bhavanon mein hai. It’s not like I didn’t have the option of using English words and opting for newer forms like rap, but I won’t succumb to fads. I like to use words, instruments and sounds that are reflective of India. For instance, in one of my songs, 'Chaandan Mein', I could have easily replaced ‘chaandan’ with ‘chand’ or ‘chandni’, but the word ‘chaandan’ is filled with emotions. That’s how most people in villages would call the moon. It’s in these modest ways that I try to preserve dying words. I want to bring extinct words and sounds alive. That’s probably why 'Kailasa’s sound is so unique.
 
 
 
 Several classical and folk singers don’t get a platform to showcase their talent. So, they make music their hobby and move on in life. If a singer launches only his own kith and kin, how will others get space? Bad product and good marketing can take you everywhere. That’s why I’ve decided to flesh out talents from across the country. I’ve launched two bands — 'Surfira' and 'Indie Routes' — recently. Javed sahab (Akhtar) and Shabanaji (Azmi) had presided over the event. Javed sahab said, ‘At a time when one singer is jealous of the other, Kailash has launched singers. If every big singer launches new talents, music would reach newer levels’. That was the biggest compliment for me.
  
  
