When the price of tomatoes soared up like never before this year, to occasionally cost even more than `100 per kg, it got a few folks in the State pondering what should be done to counter it? 

 While a few homemakers started looking for cheaper alternatives, others depended on international methods to tackle it.
 The response was similar to when chicken prices shot up and many wanted to wait till the price fell. Better Kochi Response Group, a community that consists of doctors, chartered accountants, civil servants and more, has been urging people via various online forums, to stay away from tomatoes for the next fortnight, by which they believe the price should dip.
 Will it, really? Kochi Times quizzed fiscal experts, customer behaviour analysts and more, to see how such a tactic might play out.
 
 
 
 Customer behaviour expert Sony V Mathew says, “I don’t think anything can stop customers from buying an item, at least in smaller quantities. However, they can have an effect on the price when they become responsible buyers. For example, many shopkeepers tell me that people now buy tomatoes in quantities ranging from 100 grams to just two pieces.” That, in turn, will affect a perishable product like tomato, explain analysts.
 Is it illegal to influence an item’s price, collectively? “If someone tries to increase the price artificially, it is unacceptable. But there is nothing wrong if the buyers decide they want to stay away from buying a costly item,” Sony says.
 
 Jose Sebastian, a Kochi-based fiscal expert, says, “Tomato is a perishable product and therefore, if people decide not to purchase it, sellers will be naturally forced to reduce the price, especially in a State like Kerala where people can do without this product. Those belonging to the lower strata of the society will avoid it as soon as the price increases.”
 
  Currently, the price of tomato is on the higher side because of the short supply and also due to higher income groups buying it at the steep cost, he says. 
 “However, if they too decide to steer clear off tomatoes as a result of social media campaigning, ideally, the prices must come down,” explains Jose.
 
 Elaborating on this strategy, S Gopakumar of Better Kochi Response Group explains, “This is a model of protest that has been successfully used in countries like Japan. Around the time we started the protest a few days ago, the cost of tomato was around `110. In the following days it came down to `85 and I am sure that it will go down further, if we persist with this strategy. Our target is to stabilise it between `50 and `60 and we are spreading this strategy through mediums like Whatsapp.”
 
 
 
 Tomato is a relatively new entrant in Kerala cuisine and can be easily done away with, say culinary experts. Renowned chef Noushad says, “It’s mostly when we prepare North Indian dishes that we use tomatoes. It can be easily replaced in our dishes. In sambar and rasam, it can be replaced with tamarind. In avial, curd can do the trick. Even in salads, it’s not an absolutely necessary item.”
  He observes that households use tomato while preparing dishes like butter chicken and chicken roast. “Even for these, we can use tomato puree,” he says.
 
 
 
 Sony says that the price rise has also started out a positive trend. “People have started growing tomatoes in their own homes. What they need for a few curries on a daily basis can be easily sourced from a kitchen garden, a few customers happened to tell me. If the price rise can at least push more people into cultivating enough for their own kitchen, it should be helpful in the long run,” he says.
 
