MADURAI: The   upheld the life imprisonment given by a sessions court in Madurai on February 19, last year, to a man who killed his wife within one year of their marriage. 

 One Umamaheswari was working as a lecturer in a polytechnic in Perambalur. She was married to one Asaithambi who ran a photocopy shop. Since the time their marriage took place their marital life was not peaceful as he suspected her infidelity. This resulted in frequent quarrels between them.
 
 On August 27, 2014, his wife took him to hospital as he was ill. They returned home the same night, during which time the woman’s father and brother were also present in the house. At around 3.45am, they heard her screams and when they opened the bedroom, they saw Asaithambi strangling her. They immediately retrieved her and took her to hospital but she died on the way.
 
 The   police registered a murder case against Asaithambi. The sessions court found him guilty and accordingly awarded him life sentence. Challenging the conviction, the man preferred an appeal before the high court bench. 
 
 The division bench of Justice A Selvam and   heard it.
 
 The appellant explained that he took medicines for depression and fever during the night of the incident and after that, he felt drowsy and fell asleep. When he woke up in the morning, he found his wife lying dead, he claimed. 
 
 After hearing, the bench observed that the injuries sustained by the deceased indicated that she struggled with her assailant and under those circumstances, it was impossible to believe the version of the accused.
 
 “The appellant said that he is not in full possession of his faculties. But, it is important to note that the accused has chosen not to examine any doctor to speak about the medicines he has taken and the effect of those medicines. In the absence of such evidence, the explanation offered by the accused cannot be accepted. The version of the accused, in our considered view, is not reasonable and it does not accord with probabilities. Therefore, adverse inference must be drawn against him,” the bench said. 
 
 The bench also said “Having regard to the above said facts and circumstances of the case, we hold that the prosecution has sufficiently and satisfactorily established its case against the accused beyond all reasonable doubts. The trial court analysed the case in its proper perspective. The judgment of the trial court, therefore, deserves to be upheld,” the division bench said and dismissed his appeal. 
 
 
