THIRUVANANTHPURAM: You might not be far off the mark, if you thought that something is rotten in the state of Kerala, vis-a-vis vegetable procurement and storage. The problem becomes crystal clear when   admits that indolent   managers in various districts and other department officials concerned are responsible for the wastage of vegetables being procured by the agency from farmers in the state. Tonnes of vegetables, piled up at various godowns of Horticorp (Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation) across the state, are now rotting.
 
 Horticorp's newly-appointed   alleged that that these erring officials have the support of `middlemen and politicians', who want to torpedo the state's initiative o f achieving self-sufficiency in vegetables.
 
 Admitting that the news reports on vegetables procured from Idukki district getting piled up at Hor ticor p's godowns were true (which included around 10 tonnes that rotted in Kozhikode), the agriculture minister said the managers were responsible for the situa tion. "We have the required institutions and systems in place, but officials concerned are clinging on to their posts, doing nothing. We have to make them active this year onwards," he told TOI.
 
 Now, the minister and the Horticorp chairman have promised corrective measures and strict action against indifferent officials, implementation of a proper marketing strategy, air-conditioned storage facilities and reconstitution of institutions like pricing board under the agriculture department.
 
 Though the impending drought situation in the state has cast a gloom over vegetable cultivation this summer, the minister is hopeful of scripting another success story in procurement and supply, something that was achieved during Onam last year.
 
 "The agriculture department, Horticorp and Vegetable and Fruits Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) are joining hands for the first time in this venture. We have made a convergence of these three entities for proper intervention in the market," he said.
 
 As Sunilkumar points out, it's not possible for Horticorp to sell the entire vegetables it procured through its own outlets. "There are supermarkets to which Horticorp can ensure a regular supply of vegetables at a fixed wholesale rate. We have given directives to marketing officials, to identify such potential buyers in each district. The target is to achieve a daily supply of two tonnes vegetables in each district," he added.
 
 Besides, these vegetables procured from farmers can also be sold through department's 'eco-shops' across the state, the minister said.There are over 200 eco-shops through which organic products are sold. In case there are excess vegetables despite these measures, the directive is to distribute them to orphanages, hostels and similar institutions for free, he said.
 
 The recent state-level workshop and the district-level ones that preceded have helped the department in coming out with a `crop calendar', which will be playing a vital role in production, procurement and marketing this year.“There are other institutions under the depart ment like the pricing board, which have to play a key role to help the state achieve self-sufficiency in vegetables. In pricing board, people are sitting idle and we have decided to reconstitute it. The forecasting unit at Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) is another entity that requires overhaul,“ he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the Horticor p chairman added that he will make a sincere effort to eliminate 'middlemen and illegal suppliers', who bring toxic vegetables from Tamil Nadu.
 
 "I know that I will have to face the wrath of these suppliers, who have a political backing. The plan is to revamp the entire system at Horticorp, besides establishing airconditioned godowns in all districts, so that vegetables procured can be properly stored," he said.
 
 Vinayan, who has already visited around 50 Horticorp outlets, said that there was an urgent need to raise the standards of these outlets, 'which are currently in poor and unhygienic conditions'.
 
