BHOPAL: The ancients who looked at stars seemed to be right, after all. The first day of ‘Nautapa’ — the dreaded nine days of severe heat predicted by the Hindu astronomical calendar — started with a 43.4-degree scorcher.

 Thursday’s was the second highest temperature recorded in Bhopal this season — just three decimal points below the high of 43.7 recorded on May 13. This surge in temperature ended with a sudden darkening of skies before sunset and quickening of wind but the promised thundershower didn’t come. There was more dust than drizzle but after the day’s blast of heat and humidity, Bhopalis were glad for any relief.
 
 One down and eight to go. The Met guys find no scientific basis for   but warn that the temperature in the city and across the state will remain on the higher side, as it usually does in the final week of May. There would be severe heat during the day and ‘thundery’ development towards the evening due to moisture incursion. It is the usual pre-monsoon weather that will be seen till monsoon breaks here, a weather official said.
 
 The day’s maximum and minimum (28.3) temperatures were two degrees above normal. The nights have got increasingly uncomfortable over the past week or so due to humidity and heat. Even at midnight, the mercury hovers above 30 degrees, sometimes as high as 32 or 33 degrees. Buildings, roads and homes that bake in the sun all day don’t get time to cool down before the heat assault starts as early as 8am the next morning.
 
 In the last four days, the maximum temperature in Bhopal has risen by 2.7 degrees — it was 40.7 on Monday, 41.2 on Tuesday and 42.4 on Wednesday. What added to the torture on Thursday was hot winds that blew at 20kmph. In the evening, it sped up to 30 kmph.
 
 Temperatures have gone up in other parts of the state as well. The highest temperature in MP on Thursday was recorded in Damoh at 45.5 degrees Celsius. Met officials said the temperature could touch 47 degrees in parts of state, while in Bhopal it may rise to around 45 degrees.
 
 The forecast for Bhopal for Friday is a maximum of 43 degrees and minimum of 29 degrees. There is the possibility of a thundershower in the evening. So pray for some rain relief. Light rain is forecast at isolated places in Morena, Bhind, Gwalior, Datia, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna, Damoh, Jabalpur, Anuppur, Dindori, Mandala and Balaghat. 
 
