MUMBAI:   aspirants from the   have moved the   and challenged the Aurangabad bench order allowing candidates who did not sit for Class X from Maharashtra but hold a domicile certificate to take admission in government medical colleges. 

 Data from the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), which conducts the state-wide admission to all medical and dental courses, showed that 48,977 candidates have not appeared for Class X from the state, but taken the Class XII exam. At the same time, an almost similar count of 49,768 students are the ones who have taken Class X and XII exams from the state. This year, the Aurangabad bench of the Mumbai   ruled that students who did not take the Class X exam from the state, but took the Class XII exam from Maharashtra and have a domicile certificate would be considered as state students. 
 
 “But there are some students from other states who have taken the Class XII exam as external candidates and we also know how easy it is to get a domicile certificate,” alleged parents who moved Supreme Court. This means, for instance, that a student from Kerala can apply to all the colleges in his state and also for the 15% all-India quota filled by the DGHS, for the 85% seats in all deemed universities across India and because of the Aurangabad order, even for 85% seats in government and private colleges of Maharashtra, said the parent. 
 
 On the other hand, the same student from Kerala without Class XII from Maharashtra would be categorized as an out-of-state candidate and would not have access to the state’s government medical colleges or to 85% seats in private colleges either. 
 
 “This puts the state students at a huge disadvantage,” said Rajesh Jain, member of Parents Association of Medical Students, Maharashtra. With the DMER not verifying certificates and documents before releasing the list, many said that several out-of-Maharashtra candidates are on it. The disparity was seen between the previous years’ results and the 2017 rank list confirms that, said Jain. 
 
 Parents said the DMER must scrutinize the documents closely. “In 2013, when the same process was followed, a lot of students from north and south India who were seen in the provisional list did not turn up to take admission after filling the preference form as a writ petition was filed in the high court,” added Jain.
 
 
