NAGPUR: Even as filing of nomination forms for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections is slated to begin on January 27, two major political parties—BJP and Congress—have decided to further delay the list of candidates. 

 The two bigwigs will release list of candidates in phased manner beginning from January 30. The announcements will stretch up to last date of nomination on February 3. The candidates will get about 17 to 21 days for campaigning in four-member ward comprising huge area.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress has finalized an alliance with Lokmanch and is taking offers of  ,   and Republican Paksha (khoripa) positively.
 
 BJP city President Sudhakar Kohle said first list of the party is likely to be announced by January 30. Congress city President Vikas Thakre said candidates’ names will be announced in phased manner and all by last date of nominations.
 
 Kohle said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union minister for road transport and highways   will finalize names of candidates. “BJP’s core committee meeting was held in presence of Fadnavis and Gadkari on Monday and road map for elections was finalized. Parliamentary board will meet and finalize candidates and then submit it with the two leaders for green signal,” he said.
 
 On alliance with  , Kohle said the party does not need to join hands with them. “Leaders of Sena have already made it clear that they do want any alliance with BJP. We too not require them. BJP will think about it only if Sena submits any proposal for alliance. Fadnavis and Gadkari suggested that we should think about it only if we receive any alliance offer from Sena. BJP is prepared to contest for all 151 seats,” he said.
 
 BJP sources told TOI that about 25 to 40 candidates’ names will be declared in the first list. “It will feature names of candidates from wards that do not have any dispute. Mayor Pravin Datke, Sandip Joshi, Satish Holey, Dayashankar Tiwari etc are likely to make the cut,” sources said.
 
 Sources added that the BJP will retain around 50% of sitting corporators and some senior leaders. “Candidates will be a mixture of senior and young leaders. Few corporators will be kept happy by giving tickets to their wives.”
 
 Thakre added alliance with Lokmanch has been finalized and talks are on with other political parties that submitted offers.
 
 Lokmanch had sought 11 of 151 seats from Congress but later had to be content with 9 or 10 seats. Republican Front has asked 32 seats from Congress that will come down to a great extent if alliance gets materialized. Citing alliance in UP elections, Samajwadi Party has asked for 8 seats. Congress is likely to become strong with Lokmanch alliance. Unity with more secular parties can be an additional advantage for them.
 
 Alliance between Congress and NCP is still pending as of now. NCP city working President Pravin Kunte told TOI that NCP state parliamentary board met on Wednesday and left alliance decision with district units. “I don’t think NCP and Congress alliance will materialize. NCP will have alliance with   and one or two more Republican parties,” he said.
 
 Though 76 is the magic figure, the parties will have to win around 100 or more to gain complete power in the NMC.
 
