DEHRADUN: September saw the death of two trekkers – one of a Pune trekker on 110km Harsil-Kyarkoti-Lamkhaga Pass in Uttarkashi trek due to heart attack — and now of   (IOC) officer near   glacier in Rudraprayag. Shockingly, neither of the teams had taken mandatory permission from district administration as well as forest department for these high altitude trek. As the authorities concerned were clueless about these expeditions, it took them time to start the rescue act. The tourism department is now going to frame new guidelines for trekking and, registration of tour operators including for a separate category of high altitude trekking tour operators.
 
 Maan Singh, conservator of forests of   in whose area IOC trekkers got stranded said, “The state government should take strong punitive action against the trekkers especially the tour operators who flout the regulations. This would send a strong message for others.”
  
 He said, in case of IOC trekking team, the tour operators was not even from  . It has been seen that in order to avoid the entry and other related fees, the tour operators from outside who bring tourists from other states sneak into the forest area secretively.
  
 He said, any body projecting himself as tour operator with even little bit experience has been leading such trekking expedition and putting the lives of people at great risk so there should be proper registration of tour opeators/travel agents within state as well.
 
 With two deaths in these trekking expedition, the tourism department too has swung into action mode to plug the loopholes. Tourism secretary, R Meenakshi Sundaram told TOI, “Both of these were high altitude treks where tourists have stranded and casualties have happened. A tour operator who led such groups need to be well trained in high altitude treks and rescue operations. They should also be carrying the essential items regarding trekking and rescue suitable for high altitude. Satellite phone is one of the essential items.” 
  
 He said, all these norms are now going to be part of the regulations. The tourism department will be devising the norms with the consultation of forest department and other stakeholders and get it approved in the board meeting of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board. Along with this, he said, all the tour operators including a separate category of high altitude trekkers, who meet the set guidelines, would be registered. 
  
 Meanwhile, Uttarkashi forest division has slapped a legal case against the trekking group from Pune for trespassing into the forest of the division without taking its prior permission which is mandatory before embarking on any trek in the region. The officials have also made it compulsory for the trekkers to have a member of local accredited   for assistance for adventurers trekking into the region henceforth.
 
