MUMBAI: Over four decades, Ramesh Joshi, 73, has seen it all: the rapid deterioration of the city and the rampant corruption in India's largest civic administration. “It is Mumbai's vastraharan (disrobing) to satisfy the lust of the land mafia,“ said the former corporator, who first entered the municipal corporation's portals in 1976 as a nominated member of the civic education committee.

 A decade later, he won his first election as Janata Dal candidate from Chincholi in  , a ward he represented from 1985 till 1992.
 
 In 1997, Joshi came back again, this time as a nominated corporator from the   . But he quit two years later. “The party wanted to represent just one community and I opposed it. I resigned before my term expired,“ he told TOI on Thursday . Joshi was also under pressure to raise “funds“ for the party , something he defiantly refused.
 
 Between sips of coconut water at his Parel office, Joshi reminisced about his encounters with the late   supremo   , who once chided him that “elections are not won by carrying a `jhola' and wearing torn clothes“. Joshi retorted such appearance and commitment was sufficient to shake up a crooked political dispensation.
 
 March 31, 1986, was a watershed; it was the final day the city's development plan was to be approved in the corporation. “The late Congress corporator Rustom Tirandaz and I fought tooth-and-nail because development plans of some of the major wards were not placed before the house for discussion,“ he said. The then mayor   using the brute majority of the Sena in the BMC, bulldozed all opposition and passed it, he said.
 
 “This was the first big op portunity for politicians to tamper with land reservations.They suddenly realized the value of real estate,“ said Joshi.“The planning committee of BMC kept on surreptitiously changing the plot reservations, giving benefits to private land owners,“ he added.
 
 The term `Bhookand Cha Shrikhand' (making money from land) became a rallying cry of the opposition against the then state government headed by Sharad Pawar. “It was Mumbai's biggest scandal when the government wanted to dereserve 285 plots meant for public purposes. The then superintendent of land records was under such political pressure that he died of a heart attack,“ Joshi said.
 
