NEW DELHI: The Border Security Force’s use of targeted firepower on farms and residences of Pakistan’s serving and former army officers near the border resulted in   suing for peace.

 Codenamed ‘Operation Arjun’, the measure has seen   framing a robust response to Pakistan’s use of snipers to kill jawans, besides firing on civilians and shelling villages along the border over the last month.
 
 The border force’s counter-offensive on Pakistan’s pain points saw the latter seek a ceasefire three days ago.
 
 BSF has particularly targeted farms and residences of retired Pakistan army, ISI and   officers who have been given land near the Indian border to facilitate their task of guiding infiltration and providing logistical help in anti-operations India, top sources said.
 
 Following the BSF action, Pakistan Rangers’ Punjab DG Maj Gen Azgar Naveed Hayat Khan called BSF director K K Sharma twice last week requesting a stop to the firing. 
 
 
 
 Sharma lodged a strong protest on Pakistan’s unprovoked firing causing loss of life and property of civilians. The first call to Sharma was made on September 22, while the two DGs spoke again on Monday.
 
 Sharma told Khan that his junior, Lt Col Irfan, commanding officer of 12 Chenab Rangers, had the tendency of acting in a provocative manner, raising the risk of retaliation. 
 
 As part of ‘Operation Arjun’, the BSF used small, medium and area weapons, causing heavy damage on the Pakistani side and the death of seven Pakistan Rangers personnel and 11 civilians. 
 
 Several border outposts and structures of Pakistan army and Rangers were destroyed using long-range 81 mm weapons. 
 
 Officials said following Pakistan’s repeated firing on villages and its posts, the BSF restructured its operations along the western border and decided to hit the adversary where it hurt.
 
 Sources said the tactic was on the lines of the three-month ‘Operation Rustam’ carried out last year after Pakistan fired intermittently following the September 19 surgical strikes by the Indian Army. At that time too, BSF’s retaliation forced Pakistan Rangers to wave the white flag.
 
 
 
 
