An   battling controversial developer   of   says he stopped the potentially   of a   owned by Pujit’s father and company promoter, Ravi Kiran.

 Ayush Bagla, who is seeking over Rs 2 crore from the financially troubled company, alleges the car was advertised for sale on social media recently even though the Bombay High Court has prohibited the firm’s directors from selling any assets. The order was prompted by allegations that Pujit had duped investors.
 
 Pujit, Orbit’s managing director, was arrested in September last year over cheating charges brought by financial institution Capri Global Capital. The Mumbai police’s Economic Offences Wing filed a chargesheeet against him in November, following which a court rejected his bail plea.
 
 Ravi Kiran, who is Orbit Corporation’s executive chairman, told Mirrorthat he had nothing to do with the social-media ad and that misinformation was being spread by “vested interests”. But Bagla said Sunil Bhatia of Super Cars, one of Mumbai’s largest preowned luxury vehicle dealers, posted a picture showing Ravi Kiran’s white Rolls-Royce parked in a showroom last week. One of the tags said “for sale”. The picture was removed after Bagla contacted Bhatia and informed him about the high court’s order on the assets.
 
 Bagla’s Kolkata-based firm, Paradigm Finance, had lent money to Orbit Corporation in 2013. It filed a case against Pujit last year after cheques issued towards loan repayment bounced.
 
 According to Bagla, Orbit promised to repay him the money through the sale of the white Rolls-Royce in September last year. The deal could not materialise because the high court issued orders against sale of any of the company’s assets following Pujit’s arrest.
 
 Bagla mentioned these details in his letter to Bhatia, urging him to pull the car from the sale.
 
 “We advised him [Bagla] to issue an official communication asking Super Cars to take necessary steps to protect itself from any contempt of court by involving in sale of this asset at Orbit Corp,” said Vishal Manghnani of Wishman Consultants, which is representing Bagla in the cheque-bouncing case.
 
 Bhatia said he was only trying to help the Aggarwals by advertising the car and he had removed the pictures from his social media profiles. “I was trying to help the family to sell this car, but then I learned that there are legal cases going on and which is why I withdrew from the matter,” he said.
 
 
 
 Mirror emailed queries on the Super Cars ad to Ravi Kiran. “I have never advertised for sale of any car in Super Cars showroom in Mumbai. It is not clear to me as to which investor has objected to sale of any vehicle of mine. All this propaganda is being done by some vested interests with mala fide intentions,” he said.
 
 Manghnani, meanwhile, said to secure Pujit’s appearance in the cheque-bouncing hearing, the Kolkata chief metropolitan magistrate’s court had issued an order to attach his property on Laburnum Road, Gamdevi. The Gamdevi police have been asked to execute the order, a copy of which is with Mirror.
 
