NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has observed in its order acquitting filmmaker   of the charge of rape that there could be “myriad circumstances" surrounding consent and it may not necessarily always mean “yes in case of yes or no in case of no". Some legal experts TOI spoke to on Monday do not agree.Senior lawyer Rebecca John expressed “absolute distress". She said the judgment unfortunately enforces every stereotype that women have been fighting.“I am deeply concerned with the language.It is an absolutely incorrect interpretation of consent, which has statutorily been defined already . The judge has gone legally untenable. The language used is neither legal, nor factual. This is the same misogynistic response we have fought for years," she said. The court said that the “normal rule“ is that consent has to be given and it cannot be assumed, but recent studies have revealed that in reality , most of the sexual interactions are based on non-verbal communication to initiate and reciprocate consent.

 John said that soon after the order was pronounced, a rape survivor spoke to her, saying she was “frightened". The senior lawyer added: “I am deeply distressed by this incorrect understanding of law . In three decades of my experience, I have not seen a study (Rape Trauma Syndrome) the court has relied upon. It is about principles. It is about the language, which never should be part of a judgment of a constitutional court. The premise is so terribly erroneous," she added.
 
 Supreme Court lawyer Karuna Nandy said prior sexual history has explicitly been made irrelevant under the law. The distinction between the “no" of an “intellectual" and a “no" of a “conservative" person seemed a little bizarre . Explanation 2 of IPC Section 375 is crystal clear and says consent may be communicated verbally or non-verbally. Only if `unequivocal' consent was communicated either verbally or non-verbally after a woman has said 'no', is sufficient to exonerate a rape accused, in my view of the law,“ she said.
 
 However , senior Supreme Court lawyer   said that in case of oral sex, it should be presumed that it is consensual as it cannot be forced. “The judgment of the high court is right. The question is whether a “no“ is a no or not. Oral sex and drinking together are two circumstances which point towards consensual sex, given that there are no injuries."
 
 Senior criminal lawyer   observed that the allegations of rape or molestation are taken very seriously. In the Farooqui case, said Memon, though he has been acquitted by the high court now , he has undergone a tremendous amount of hardship, anxiety and turbulence. “It is necessary to carefully scrutinise facts of each such case before rushing to arrest the alleged rapist and destroy his reputation," he asserted.
 
