NOIDA: To run a fair estimate of the number of votes which can swing to the None Of The Above (NOTA) category in the upcoming election from Gautam Budh Nagar, home buyers’ association, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (Nefowa), have floated a poll on social media platforms on Friday.

 The home buyers have been dissuading buyers who are invested in the Noida extension properties from participating in the elections. They have been running a poll-boycott campaign and a campaign to encourage buyers to press the NOTA or none of the above button of the voting machine, on February 11.
 
 The poll was started late Friday afternoon and will run on social media pages of Nefowa till February 10. The home buyers of Noida and Greater Noida have been running a hashtag campaign #NoHouseNoVote over last few months. The poll floated on Friday afternoon has shown a definite swing towards   over any particular political party. This poll is only for those buyers who are invested in Noida Extension apartments and have voting rights in the upcoming polls from Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 “We have set up the poll to get a realistic estimate of how many people may finally cast NOTA in the upcoming polls. The entire campaign has been driven to resist from participating in the politics of the elections as no political party has spoken for or taken up the buyers’ cause,” Abhishek Kumar, president, Nefowa, said.
 
 Noida Extension presently has over 58 ongoing builder projects which host over three lakh apartment units. The projects have been largely delayed as farmers in the regions challenged the land acquisition in the Allahabad High Court resulting in a stay on construction activities from 2009-11. Most buyers who are invested in the area are waiting for their flats for 3-5 years beyond promised dates of delivery.
 
 “We have also asked for a meeting time with Union minister for urban development and housing, and will visit his residence on January 29. We will also take our appeal to the BJP headquarters and the congress headquarters the same day,” Shweta Bharti, general secretary, Nefowa, said.
 
 “The objective of running a #NoHouseNoVote campaign has been to keep the buyers agenda alive for the upcoming polls. Noida Extension with its 3 lakh apartments is going to be a major vote bank in upcoming years and if the political parties or the government do not want to address our issues, we will run a continuous movement to stay away from being used during elections,’ Indrish Gupta, co-founder, Nefowa, said.
 
