COLVA: Concerned citizens of Goa, at an emotionally-charged protest rally at  , demanded the resignations of MLAs who fought on an anti-BJP manifesto, but formed an alliance with the BJP after winning the election.

 This demand was part of three resolutions passed by citizens at the meet. The meet also resolved that the people will never vote for the candidate who had betrayed their mandate. The people further urged the Centre to dismiss   for having failed to invite the single-largest party to form the government as per the popular mandate.
 
 Speaker after speaker lambasted Vijai Sardessai,   and Manohar Parrikar for usurping power without have the mandate of the people.
 
  (NCP) office bearer Avinash Bhonsle demanded recall of the governor, and to reform the electoral process with the right to recall the elected representative.
 
 Margao-based physician Francisco Colaco said Sardessai, along with his “altar boys”  , Mohandas Lolienkar and Dilip Prabhudessai, dressed as angels and used them for their credibility and goodwill among the people.
 
 Ramakant Khalap dared the chief minister to dissolve the assembly and seek fresh election.
 
 Terming it as the biggest betryal, businessman Datta Naik urged the people to throw Goa Forward into Sonsoddo (garbage dump).
 
 Tiatrist Francis de Tuem said his fight against the government will begin soon and he would see that this betrayal does not fade in the people’s minds.
 
 Social activist Aires Rodrigues tore into Sardessai’s election manifesto. “Sardessai said he brought in development, while opposing the BJP government over the last five years. His reason now for bringing back the same government for development cannot be acceptable,” he said.
 
 Jose Maria Miranda said voters rejected BJP as it had destroyed the environment over the last five years, while in power. “Vijai, by supporting the same party he used to criticize, has stooped to gutter level and betrayed the people of Goa and constituents of Fatorda,” he said.
 
 Others who spoke included journalist Rajan Narayan, AICC general secretary Girish Chodankar, Rahul Basu of Goenchi Mati, Swati Kerkar, and Tensing.
 
