CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress president   condemned the blast, in which three people were killed and 15 injured in Maur on Tuesday night, describing it as a conspiracy against his party.

 The incident, said Amarinder in a statement issued from here, had proved his worst fears that armed criminals and goondas had been let loose by the rival political parties in a desperate bid to scuttle the Congress ride to a sweeping win in the elections.
 
 The former CM demanded further strengthening of the security in poll-bound Punjab, saying the situation was highly volatile, with the entry of AAPsponsored outsiders escala ting the tension triggered by reports of criminal gangs being given a free hand by the Badal government to create mayhem during the polls. He urged the Election Commission to deploy additional central security forces in the state to ensure peaceful polls.
 
 The Nabha jailbreak and the Fazilka incident had thoroughly exposed the complicity between the criminals and the Akali lea dership, led by chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, said the PPCC chief, warning of more trouble ahead.
 
 The Naxal-Khalistani nexus promoted by Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party had transformed the state into a tinder-box waiting to explode, said Amarinder, expressing apprehensions of further violence over the next four days, up to the pol ling on Saturday.
 
 The PPCC president said he had already communicated his fears to the EC, pointing out that 50,000 outsiders brought to Punjab by AAP from states Bihar and Uttar Pradesh had further charged the tense atmosphere in the state.
 
 He demanded immediate steps by the poll panel to eject these outsiders and strong steps to crack down on the armed criminal gangs. He alleged that there was a clear bid to disturb the poll process, as was also evident in the incidents of sacrilege reported from different parts of the state.
 
 He cited Kejriwal's controversial stay at the house of a Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) extremist, saying these instances pointed to a vicious agenda by antinational forces to destroy the democratic polity of the state.
 
