She feels tribal rights issues in Bastar, one of worst Maoist-affected regions, are not getting due attention in political mainstream. 

 Asked about reports about her joining former chief minister  's party, Sori said "He is a tribal leader and I have been working in sync with him. However, I have not given a thought to it." Jogi, who is on a state-wide campaign to expand base of his newly-formed regional party, said Soni Sori is a brave woman, who follows Gandhian principles to fight for rights of tribals of Bastar. She considers me as an elder in her family. We have not discussed politics and it is up to her whether she wants to join our party or not.
 
 Indications are that Soni Sori may visit Delhi later this month to call on AAP national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the present situation in tribal Bastar. Many activists, including Soni Sori have been raising their voice against the alleged police excesses, fake encounters and other human rights violations in Bastar during the ongoing anti-Maoist operations in the region.
 
 Sources in Dantewada said a tribal school teacher-turned-tribal activist Soni Sori had shot into limelight in 2011 when the police arrested her on charges of acting as a conduit for Maoists and slapped numerous cases on her. This triggered a national outcry, with many alleging she was tortured and sexually assaulted by policemen while being in custody. Subsequently, she was acquitted by court in cases against her. 
 
 After her release, she began campaigning for the rights of tribals caught in the conflict between Maoists and the security forces.
 
 With Sori emerging as a face of tribals democratic protest in Bastar, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) fielded her to contest Bastar (ST) Lok Sabha seat, which she lost to Dinesh Kashyap of the BJP in 2014. In February last year, Sori was attacked by some unknown assailants. 
 
 The attackers threw some substance on her face, causing severe burning sensation. Later, she was flown to Delhi for the treatment. TNN 
 
 
