CHENNAI: Heaping praise on the  , calling him 'a towering personality and statesman', chief minister   on Wednesday invited   to unveil the portrait of former chief minister   in the legislative  .

 This was one of the chief minister's key missions in meeting Modi in New Delhi.
 
 Besides extending a personal invite to Modi, the chief minister in an official letter to Modi said, “Sir, a towering personality and statesman like you, who has upheld the finest traditions of our vibrant democracy and maintained the cher ished values of our parliamentary system, would be the befitting person to unveil the portrait of our revered leader. The people of Tamil Nadu would be extremely happy if you kindly consent to unveil the portrait. I seek your convenience to grace the occasion on any day during the month of July 2017." 
 
 He also requested Modi to articipate in the conclude participate in the concluding celebrations in December of former chief minister  's centenary year. 
 
 Portraits of former chief ministers, from C Rajagopalachari to M G Ramachandran, as well as portraits of Mahatma Gandhi, Periyar, Muthuramalinga Thevar and Tamil poet Thiruvalluvar hang on the walls of the assembly hall.
 
 In his letter, Palaniswami said the former chief minister had dedicated her life to the cause of Tamils worldwide and left an indelible mark on the Indian political landscape.
 
 But the move to place Jayalalithaa's portrait in the assembly hall has drawn strong criticism from the opposition. They point to the fact that she was convicted in a disproportionate assets case, though the sentence abated due to her death, and say her portrait should not find a place in the assembly .
 
 “The former chief minister has been convicted by the Supreme Court in the disproportionate assets case. Three people, including Jayalalithaa's friend V K Sasikala, were convicted in the case and are in prison. It is improper to install a portrait of a convicted person in the assembly and inviting the PM to unveil the portrait is even more atrocious,“ deputy leader of opposition Duraimurugan told TOI.
 
 DMK has opposed portraits of Jayalalithaa being put up on the walls of government offices. DMK working president and leader of the opposition M K Stalin had written to chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan, asking her to have Jayalalithaa's photos removed. But the portraits continue to adorn government offices.
 
 The last time a portrait went up on the assembly hall was in 1992, when Jayalalithaa unveiled a picture of MGR.
 
 “The chief minister unveiled the portrait on January 31, 1992 in the presence of speaker Sedapatti R Muthiah, finance minister V R Nedunchezhiyan and others,“ the assembly records say .The records add that the entire hall was decorated and the chief minister was given a red carpet welcome.
 
