Bhopal:

 In order to give a fillip to the sluggish   market in the city, the district administration is weighing the option of revising the collector’s guideline rate for properties at select locations. The district administration has listed 57 colonies and some villages on the outskirts of the state capital where the lower guideline rates would apply.
 
 After  , the revenue generated after registration of properties has taken a bad hit. An estimated 40 per cent registration of property documents stopped immediately. Many people who were scheduled to register documents backed out for fear of coming under the scanner of the income tax department.
 
 Indications are that around two per cent to five per cent drop in the guideline rate can be expected in 57 colonies. “We expect a drop in the guideline rate to propel more new property registrations”, said an official.
 
 District Sub-Valuation Committee started the survey of property rates in December across Bhopal. A full report is expected to be submitted to the district  , who heads the District Valuation Committee.
 
 The panel’s proposed new formula and criteria for rate hike aims at encouraging new registration of properties, said an official with the district administration on the condition of anonymity.
 
 “Focus is on new colonies that have been brought into the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) limits. Colonies around Gandhi Nagar, Katara Hills, Ayodhya Nagar and areas near Islamnagar are being considered. It includes Godarmow near Jail Road and Gandhinagar along with the developing colonies at Katara Hills, Rasla Khedi (Vidhisha road), Salaiyya, Ayodhya Nagar and Sangh Khedi,” said the official.
 
 “Besides the 57 selected, nine new colonies have been identified with the help of BMC and our survey team,” said the official, adding that the district administration was focused on colonies that have reported a spurt in registration in the pre-demonetisation period.
 
 Reeling under the impact of ‘note bandi’, CREDAI, the apex body of private real estate developers, had been demanding a relook into the existing guideline rates. According to industry estimates, there are about 5,000 homes that are ready for possession but without takers.
 
 
