Coimbatore: A 19-year-old youth was murdered and two of his friends were brutally assaulted by rival gang members at Karunanidhi Nagar in Sowripalayam here on Sunday early morning.

 The deceased was identified as K Sathish alias Sathishkumar, 19, of Vinayagar Kovil Street in Sowripalayam. He had completed Class XII and was unemployed. An alcohol addict, he was often found roaming with his friends K Murugan, 21,  , 23, and Pandi, all from different parts of Sowripalayam, police said.
 
 Pandi had taken a room on rent at Karunanidhi Nagar in Sowripalayam for catering services and the four used to gather there often to consume liquor, the police added.
 
 Three weeks ago, a rival gang member, identified as Ramesh of the same locality, had joined the four after he fought with the gang members.
 
 On Saturday night, Sathishkumar and his friends gathered at the rental room to consume alcohol. After drinks, Pandi and Ramesh left for their houses, while Sathishkumar, Murugan and Prince stayed back in the room.
 
 On Sunday around 2am, seven members belonging to the rival gang entered the rental room with an intention to assault Ramesh. They picked up a fight with Sathishkumar and his two friends. The gang attacked Sathishkumar with a beer bottle and stabbed him on his chest and back, killing him on the spot.
 
 The gang members also stabbed Murugan and Prince but the duo managed to escape with injuries. As the commotion prevailed in the area, local people alerted the Peelamedu (law & order) police, who rushed to the spot and sent the body to the   and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. The injured were also admitted to the hospital.
 
 The gang members have been identified as Akilan, Muruali, Karthik, Sumesh, Madan, Vibin and Sathish. According to the police, they had previous enmity with the deceased. The seven, the police said, were also involved in minor assault cases.
 
 The Peelamedu police have registered a case and detained Akilan and Sathish in connection with the case. The remaining five are on the run.
 
 
