Nagpur: With a view to attract students for Bachelor of Para-Medical Technology (BPMT) course, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to change its name. Now the courses with specializations like X-ray, MRI, CT- Scan and forensics would be renamed BSc, as per the norms framed by University Grants Commission (UGC).

 According to MUHS pro vice-chancellor Mohan Khamgaonkar and registrar Kalidas Chavan, the proposal had already been submitted and final decision would be taken during Academic Council meeting of Nashik-based university slated this week. “The change would be implemented from next academic session and would attract students as the new nomenclature is familiar for them,” Khamgaonkar told TOI.
 
 The three-year course was started under vocational category in 2010 in all GMCs in the state. First two years of this course were common for all students while last years were for specialization.
 
 Chavan stated the Central government brought in major changes in norms for teachers-students ratio for postgraduate courses.
 
 “Now one teacher can guide three students instead of one. It would lead to increase of 600-700 postgraduate seats in the country. The two Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in Nagpur would also benefit. It could even get a new postgraduate department. MUHS vice-chancellor Dilip Mhaisekar, who is on the panel that decided this, would soon announce the increase in seats,” he said.
 
 The two further said the Medical Council of India (MCI) had asked all healthcare universities to implement biometric attendance system for staff and students. It is already there for the staff. The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) has opposed the move.
 
 The advent of instrumentation and technological advancement in healthcare has created a need of manpower having technical expertise. BPMT graduates answer this need. However, the course failed to attract many students.
 
 Currently, MUHS has 56 colleges, including medical, dental, homeopathy, Unani and Ayurveda affiliated to it across the state together having over 1.25 lakh students.
 
 
