JAIPUR: The fight for post-graduation seats in medical courses between non-service   and in-service doctors has now reached to Supreme Court.

 The Apex Court has agreed to hear the plea filed by non-service doctors challenging the double bench April 7 order of   to government to give incentive at the rate of 10% of the marks obtained for each year of service in remote and/or difficult areas up to the maximum of 30% of the marks obtained in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test.
 
 The plea was filed by a MBBS doctor   and other doctors, who belong to non-service category. Since, these MBBS doctors are not in government service, they did not get the incentives in marks like in-service doctors (those who are in government service). “The Supreme Court has agreed to hear our plea tomorrow. We have challenged Rajasthan High Court’s order, in which it has mentioned that incentives to in-service doctors ‘has to be given’ but in Medical Council of India’s regulation 9, it is mentioned that incentives ‘may be given’,” Dr Bagra said.
 
 He said that the non-service doctors also mentioned that the health department has not defined remote and difficult areas. “As per MCI regulation 9, the incentives of marks, should be given to only those in-service doctors who are posted at remote and difficult areas. But, here in Rajasthan, the health department has not defined primary health centres (PHC) as in remote and difficult areas. They have given the benefit of incentives to almost all the in-service in merit list prepared by them for counselling,” Bagra said, adding that in top 200 in merit list, there is only one non-service candidate, others are in-service candidates as they got incentive marks upto 30% depending on duration of their service. 
 
 In the plea, the non-service candidates mentioned that the process of selection for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2017 had begun in September 2016 but, still the government is changing its rules in the mid of the process of admissions.
 
 The counselling for the PG courses completed on Tuesday. Now, seats will be allocated from April 16.
 
 However, the government has also cleared its stand on it. Health minister   said, “If court makes us party, then we will clear our stand. We issued directions on March 20 in which we have mentioned giving 10% incentives to in-service doctors.”
 
 But, Rajasthan High Court in its order on April 7, quashed the para 3 and para 4 of government order issued on March 20.
 
 The government had mentioned in para 3 that 50% of total seats (degree/diploma), which come under,   (i.e. 25% of total seats), will be only for the students who have received degree from Colleges affiliated to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences/Rajasthan University. In para 4, the state government had mentioned that for the purpose of equating the in-service candidates for the grant of benefits, as per the previous policies of the State, the candidates who had worked for two or more years of regular service in Hilly/Desert/Tribal areas (difficult areas) and three or more years in other rural areas (remote areas), maximum of 10% of the marks obtained in the NEET as bonus marks as per the service actually rendered by the in-service candidate in the remote and/or difficult (rural) areas will be granted as an incentive.
 
 
