HYDERABAD: Far from Lord's, where   marshalled her troops in the  , an unassuming 13-year-old quietly announced his arrival in Hyderabad cricket circles on Sunday .   smashed 316 in the Hyderabad Cricket Association's school league match to set up Delhi Public School (DPS) Nacharam's 595-run win over Sultan-ul-Uloom. The teenager smashed 41boundaries and 13 sixes in his 142-ball 316.

 
 The teenager was so focused on this match that he skipped going out for a movie with his family on Saturday night.It turned out to be a dream debut for Manikanta, who hit the bowlers to all parts of the ground.
 
 “I hadn't expected to get so many runs in this game. My focus was to get a century or 150 but as I got into the groove the runs began to flow,“ Manikanta told ToI on Sunday .
 
 The Class IX student forged a 518-run opening partnership with his skipper Gaddam Aryan, who remained unbeaten on 159 (129; 16x4).
 
 Was the bowling below par? “There was nothing wrong with the bowling as such but the fielding was not on par. They missed a lot of run out chances and a couple of catches as well,“ an ever modest Manikanta, who himself benefitted from a dropped catch. Manikanta started playing cricket seriously when he was in Class IV . Initially, he went to the St John's Sports Coaching Foundation in Secunderabad but after joining Delhi Public School he shifted to the coaching camp in the school itself.
 
 Manikanta has set his heart on notching up a few more centuries in the League this season so that he can make it to the state team.
 
 This knock, however, is just the beginning for the youngster, who has a long way to go before establishing himself as a  
 
 Eleven years ago ­ November 2006 ­ two 13-year-olds had created a record by hitting triple centuries each. It was the first instance of two triple centuries being scored in the same innings in limitedovers cricket.
 
 B Manoj Kumar and Mo hamed Shaibaaz Tumbi registered a world record partnership of 721 runs in an inter-school match. The 13-yearolds had wiped out the longstanding record of 664 runs achieved by   and Vinod Kambli for the third wicket in 1987-88 for their school Sharadashram Vidyamandir in Bombay .
 
 Manoj had cracked 320 off 127 balls studded with 46 boundaries while Shaibaaz hit 324 laced with 67 hits to the fence for St Peter's High School against St Phillip's High School at the Parade ground.A decade later neither of them has made it big. Manoj turns out for Evergreen in the A-1 Division (3-day) League while there is no news about Shaibaaz.
 
