Mangaluru: An abandoned   in the city has now become a perfect  .

 The road roller, which was lying abandoned for years, was given a facelift and converted into a beautiful background for a perfect selfie. The idea of converting abandoned road roller into a selfie spot was conceptualized by a dentist-turned-artist Pradeep Kumar. Meanwhile, Ramakrishna Math, Mangaluru, that has been undertaking Swacch Mangaluru Abhiyan, came forward to support this initiative and finally with the help of the artist, the ‘road roller selfie spot’ is now ready for inaugural.
 
 The abandoned road roller near Jeppu market in Mangaluru has caught the attention of Dr Pradeep, who is popularly known as‘Varnodhar’. Specialized in making caricatures, portraits, concept art and comics, Varnodhar decided to do something aesthetically to turn the abandoned road roller on the roadside near Jeppu market into a beautiful spot. With this in mind, he met Swami Jithakamanandaji, the head of Ramakrishna Math, Mangaluru. He shared his idea of having a selfie spot with the mutt officials, who have initiated Swacch Mangaluru Abhiyan.
 
 Swami Ekagamyanandaji of Ramakrishna Math told TOI that the mutt officials extended all support to Varnodhar and the project was taken up recently. “Being an artist, Varnodhar offered his voluntary service for the success of our Swacch Mangaluru Abhiyan. As a part of our Abhiyan, he also expressed his willingness to   walls near Hampankatta. We have plans to create a garden in the surrounding areas near the road roller,” he said adding that a formal inaugural ceremony will be organized soon.
 
 Varnodhar said the Arise Awake team of Ramakrishna Math has extended support for his effort. “They took the necessary permission and we undertook the task. About six volunteers supported in the painting task including purchase of acrylic spray paint that went upto Rs 10,000. We started working on a Saturday at around 5.30am. We realized that the road roller was rusted and had to be given zinc coating. We worked on it for two days. With the Ramakrishna Math officials plan to create a lawn here, this spot will soon become an attraction among everyone,” he added.
 
 
