Curiosity is bound to be piqued when a poster for a   workshop reads, “Learn the basics of Argentine Tango, breaking the traditional framework of   roles. Discover a new way to connect with fellow humans: physically and spiritually.” Tango, a dance form that originated in  , evolved with fixed gender roles, with the men always leading and women following. The idea of breaking the fixed   and letting dancers choose what they wanted to do, regardless of their sex, had been simmering within Shrek Deodhar — a scientist who has a passion for tango, and is an instructor of the dance form — for 2-3 years. The result was the first-of-its-kind   Tango workshop.

 “Given current social conditions, I find men always leading unnecessary. Dance is dance, and you should be allowed to pick any role you want. And that’s what we did with the workshop,” says Shrek, who encourages this mix-up in his the regular classes as well. “The   decides where to go on the dance floor and the follower decides how to move. By switching roles, a person is able to feel the responsibility and pain that the other goes through in their role, and they, thereby, respect and truly understand each other. This helps you connect with your partner better,” he adds.
 
  
  
 
 One of the main reasons tango is popular is because of the connection that you make with the other dancer, even if it is a stranger. Just by dancing with them, you get to understand the kind of a person they are — do they have an imposing personality or are they open minded. “And when you switch roles, you get to understand them even better. The changes can be subtle, but sometimes it can be really deep,” says Shrek. For example, a woman who has been a follower, recently decided to try her hand at being a leader, and the changes were quickly evident — she was less passive, spoke more actively and understood that when she was dancing passively, it was taking away from performance.
 
 Shrek, who personally enjoys being the lead and the follower, has had mostly positive reactions to the switch. In every batch, he begins with the traditional roles and then encourages the students — who are usually in the 20s-30s age group — to mix things up. And while they may not be too happy or comfortable with the idea initially, they soon warm up to it. 
 
