LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has lagged in progress and development compared to other states and under the new dispensation, the state would achieve what it has not in the last several years, said chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath, addressing as Leader of the House at the first meeting of the   on Thursday.

 Yogi was felicitating the unanimous election of senior party leader   as the new Speaker of the House.
 
 The chief minister said more than 22 crore citizens of the state have voted the MLAs to legislate and formulate new policies and programmes for their welfare and the House should utilise maximum time to achieve this end. Seeking cooperation of the Opposition , the chief minister said he was confident members of the opposition would cooperate in planning of new schemes and programmes. The newly elected Speaker thanked the house members including Yogi and Leader of Opposition and Leader of the SP Legislature Party, Ram Gobind Chaudhary and assured the House that his efforts would be to give adequate time to all members to raise issues related to public welfare.
 
 Dixit said he discussed this with the chief minister who said the House should for longer and that he would try to make that happen. The Speaker said he would also see to it that members of the Opposition find him objective and impartial in his functioning in the House. He said in other states, there are no rules and regulations for smooth functioning of the House but UP Assembly has a detailed rulebook and the new members should go thorough it and may even come to him for guidance. The chief minister said Dixit is a learned person with specilised knowledge of Constitution, law, history and the vedas and has been elected unopposed as Speaker of the UP Assembly by these virtues.
 
 Leader of Opposition, Ram Gobind Chaudhary thanked the chief minister and BJP Legislature Party for electing such an enlightened person as Speaker. I am surprised why Dixit was not made Speaker of the Assembly in the past as he deserved this office much before,” said Chaudhary, a long time friend of Dixit.
 
 Lalji Verma, Leader of the BSP Legislature Party, Aradhana Mishra of the Congress and Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhiayya showered praises on Dixit too. Aradhana Mishra requested the chief minister and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna to enhance funds of Vidhayak Nidhi and double it from the existing Rs 1 crore per annum.
 
