Kirlampudi: Kapu leader   Padmanabham seemed to mount pressure on the government on Friday by giving security forces a hard time.

 On Friday, cops relaxed restrictions slightly, allowing media to into the former minister’s house. Speaking to media, Padmanabham said that he is neither in London nor Pakistan; he is residing in the jurisdiction of the police station. “Why should I be scared of the government or cops when I have not committed any crime. I am yet to get stay orders in cases like chief
 
 Speaking to media the Kapu leader alleged that he is not in London or Pakistan. He is very much in the jurisdiction of state government’s police station. “Why should I afraid of cops or the government when I have not committed any crime. I have not got the stay orders in cases like the privileged chief minister Chandrababu Naidu,” he rued.
 
 The former minister said Naidu may send him behind bars or award him with capital punishment or life imprisonment just because the CM has the power to do so. “I have not gone into hiding. I am fighting for my community. The home minister says that I can’t walk. Let him grant the permission, I will show him that I can walk. DGP is degrading the prestige and honour of IPS officers, only to get hold of a one-year extension,” he added. Padmanabham further mocked DGP Samba Siva Rao. “I will not go anywhere. I will be in the house even if I fall sick. I will not retreat,” he said.
 
 Sources said that the former minister’s all hopes were dashed when the members of his community could not congregate in large numbers to protest against the confinement of their leader. Before mulling over the padayatra, he was said to have called his community leaders to raise voice on a massive scale and mount pressure on the government in case of his arrest or illegal confinement.
 
 However, the Kapu leaders’ arrests and the strategy formulated by cops did not give Padmanabham much air to fulfil his expectations. Now he is planning to resort to the padayatra any day after cops leave his place. “Given this situation cops will not remove forces from Kirlampudi. So he is trying to put pressure on the police department,” one of the senior police officers said.
 
 
