Surat:  ,   

 Airports Authority of India (AAI) is unlikely to give clearance for the proposed skyscrapers as the proposed land falls in the funnel area of Surat airport. The maximum height of structure that could be granted clearance would be 107m, which means only 33-floor building can come up there.
 
 Moreover, the formation of special purpose vehicle (SPV) for redevelopment of Surat railway station by Indian Railways Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) is also not complete, delaying the Rs 5,000 crore project. 
 
 The memorandum of understanding (MoU ) for formation of SPV was signed by Indian Railways, Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on August 17, 2016.
 
 The SPV was named Surat Integrated Transport Development Corporation Limited (SITCO) with Indian Railways having 63% stake followed by GSRTC at 34% and SMC 3% for development of over 2.50 lakh sq m land of the railways.
 
 MD and CEO of IRSDC Sanjiv Lohiya told TOI, “Formality of formation of SPV will be completed in a few days. I have had discussions with AAI chairman on the issue of maximum height of construction allowed and appropriate procedure to be followed once SPV is formed.” 
 
 “This is first of its kind project in the whole country and no one had envisaged its scope in the past. Concerns of large number of stakeholders needs to be addressed. We have completed addressing most of them,” Lohiya said.
 
 AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra talking to TOI said, “It is very clear and open for all that an appellate committee is there for addressing grievances after an aeronomical studies. It could be approached for issue concerning height of the railway buildings.” 
 
 ——————————————————————————-
 
 IRSDC TO TAKE UP CONSTRUCTION OF MULTI-MODEL TRANSPORT HUB ON PRIORITY 
 
 HimansshuBhatt@timesgroup.com 
 
 Surat: With new minister taking over the ministry of railways, the project of modern Surat railway station is unlikely to take off before 2019. Changes in priority and procedure suggested by the ministry is likely to delay the entire project. However, construction of Multi Model Transport Hub (MMTH) may be taken up on priority by Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) on EPC (Engineering Procurement and Contract) basis. 
 
 IRSDC has shortlisted six private players for development of over 2.50 lakh sq m land. SMC has decided to provide FSI (floor Space Index) of four for this project. The special purpose vehicle (SPV) — Surat Integrated Transport Development Corporation Limited (SITCO) — is likely to start work on MMTH once formed. 
 
 “When fully completed the project will have a transport hub that will integrate BRTS, city bus, metro rail, High Speed Rail Corridor, private transport, public transport like autorickshaws and taxis,” an official from Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said. 
 
 “However, now with emphasis on setting up MMTH on priority, the work is likely to begin soon,” he added. 
 
 IRSDC CEO Sanjiv Lohiya told TOI, “The process of taking the decision is going on and would be completed soon. We hope to complete the work on time.” 
 
 The whole project is envisaged to be completed in seven to 10 years, once groundbreaking ceremony is done. 
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The saying too many cooks spoil the broth is proving true for ambitious Rs 5,000 crore project. Surat being one of the fastest growing cities in the country Multi-Modal Transport Hub is need of the hour. Administrative delays, which can be avoided, could prove costly for the government exchequer. The state government should make some effort to speed up the process by taking it up with the Union government.
 
 
