CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government   to a  , probably by April next year, with the state government on Wednesday constituting a   to recommend suggestions based on the 7th Pay Commission. The Union cabinet had cleared the recommendations of the   in June last year.

 The financial outgo for the TN government will be around Rs 20,000 crore more each year once the pay commission is implemented. The state-constituted committee will have to submit its report by June 30 this year. More than 18 lakh government employees, teachers, pensioners and family pensioners will benefit.
 
 In an official release, chief minister K Palaniswami said he made the announcement after he held a meeting with a group of four ministers and senior officials, including chief secretary Girija Vaidhyanathan.
 
 “The committee comprising finance secretary, home secretary, school education secretary, labour secretary and a member-secretary will suggest measures to implement the 7th Pay Commission recommendations for central government employees. The committee will have to tweak the recommendations to adapt them to local requirements,“ the chief minister said.
 
 The state committee will consider the 7th Pay Commission recommendations as well as the changes effected during its implementation, the chief minister said. All recognised trade unions and government employees' unions can submit their suggestions to the committee.
 
 Representatives of the government employees' union told TOI that while they welcomed the government decision to set up a committee, there were other issues like pension that needed to be resolved.
 
 “It is nearly a year since former chief minister J Jayalalithaa said the committee will be set up. Now, we are worried that the committee may seek more time to submit its report as was the case in the year 2006 when it took more than a year for the committee to submit its report,“ Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association general secretary M Anbarasu told TOI.
 
 “The new committee will have settle all the issues with regard to last pay commission. We also want the government to announce at least 20% of the present salary as interim relief. This will also give us an assurance that we will definitely get higher salary next year,“ said Anbarasu.
 
 “In all pay commissions, the existing pay and dearness allowances will be merged and taken as basic pay. Beyond this, a grade pay will be announced and this is applicable to employees, who are promoted and cross a grade. Then grade pay is treated as part of basic pay,“ said another employees' union chief, seeking anonymity .
 
 While central government employees got a percentage of their basic pay as house rent allowance, in the state, the employees are paid a consolidated amount. Similarly, there will be differences in other allowances, he said.
 
