MUMBAI: It has been a dream season for Nagpur juniors. They have dominated the scene in  . Now, it’s time for their senior counterparts to live up to the expectations.

 The   at Khar Gymkhana will be a very good opportunity for the senior city players to prove that they can match the in-form juniors.
 
 The mixed team format of   introduced by the   throughout the country in 2016 means every team must have quality men’s and women’s players in their squad to achieve better results.
 
 Nagpur always had talented female players in its ranks. It is the quality men players that the team lacks.
 
 In the present team also, Nagpur have  ,   and  , who are among the best in the state. They can win women’s singles and doubles matches. In mixed doubles also either of these three players can chip in with key performances.
 
 However, in the best of five matches tie, men’s singles and men’s doubles play important roles. This is where Nagpur don’t have shuttlers who can put up a fight with the players from Mumbai, Pune and Thane.
 
 Pranav Lokhande, Pratik Bode and Gaurav Mithe will have to raise the bar and play out of their skin. Young Gaurav can pair up with one of the talented girls in the mixed doubles if the tie goes into decider.
 
 Nagpur has a tough draw and chances are that they will run into formidable Thane in the quarterfinals. They need women’s players to rise to the occasion.
 
 On the other hand, defending champions Mumbai Suburban are in the relatively easy top half of the 32-team draw. They don’t face a tough rival till the semifinal stage, where they are expected to meet Greater Mumbai.
 
 The six-day meet promises a three-way battle for supremacy. Defending champions Mumbai Suburban might get a tough challenge from Pune and Thane in the tournament. The team championship will be played on the first two days followed by the individual events.
 
 With young guns like Kaushal Dharmamer and Chirag Shetty in their ranks, Mumbai Suburban had surprised holders Pune 3-1 in the final at Aurangabad last year. Mumbai Suburban coach Mayur Tawde is confident of retaining the title despite having a depleted team this time around.
 
 Last year’s key performer Chirag Shetty is not available as he is preparing for the forthcoming World Badminton Championships at Glasgow.
 
 
