AURANGABAD: The projects proposed under the Union government’s   scheme received a major push on Saturday when Apurva Chandra, principal secretary of the state industries department and mentor for the   asked the concerned authorities to come out with   in the next meeting. 

 In the meeting attended by municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar, district collector Naval   and other directors of the special purpose vehicle formed to execute the proposed project, Chandra said that the authorities should shift gear to faster mode so that the SVP could float tenders within a month. 
 
 While reviewing the preparations of the SVP with regard to developing various civic amenities under the Smart City project, Chandra also said that the municipal body should initiate process of land pulling for the proposed greenfield development scheme. 
 
 It was the second meeting of the special purpose vehicle. 
 
 Meanwhile,   nodal officer for the smart city scheme, said, “The civic body has decided to use solar energy in its main administrative building of the civic body. Under the smart city scheme, we will install solar panel on the roof top of our main office building,” he said.
 
 Sikander also said that the civic body has identified 550 acre land for greenfield development scheme. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has identified a land in Chikhalthana to develop it using innovative planning with provisions for affordable housing, especially for the poor. The developments would be carried out to address housing needs of the city’s increasing population. The municipal authorities said they would go for land pulling in place of acquiring the land.
 
 Apart from this, the civic body has proposed to introduce modern techniques to handle the solid waste management system. 
 
 The civic body recently appointed a Singapore-based firm CH2M as its project management consultant for its ambitions smart city project. The PMC will assist the municipal body for next three years in execution of various projects. 
 
 As a part of the smart city project, the civic body will receive funds from the central government to provide adequate water supply, assured electricity supply, sanitation - including solid waste management, efficient urban mobility and public transport, affordable housing especially for the poor, robust IT connectivity and digitalization, sustainable environment, safety and security of citizens, health care and facilities for education. 
 
