NEW DELHI: The Centre told   on Thursday it could not promulgate an ordinance to revoke a ban on   since the matter was sub-judice, but would support any step taken by the state government to hold the sport while adhering to certain dos and don'ts to address the element of cruelty .

 The assurance from the Centre, which has been sympathetic to the state's view against the ban, came during a meeting between PM Modi and Tamil Nadu chief minister   here. The CM rushed to the capital as protests against the ban spread across Tamil Nadu. 
 
 It is learned that the Centre would take any step only after the Supreme Court's final call on the issue. It would, however, support the state if it moved the apex court afresh. Tamil Nadu has the right to make a law allowing jallikattu as sports as it is a state subject under the Constitution. In that case, the state law will have to address the element of cruelty in the sport and impose strict punishment and penalty or both for any violation.
 
 “While appreciating the cultural significance of jallikattu, the Prime Minister observed that the matter is presently sub-judice. The Centre would be supportive of steps taken by the state government,“ the PMO tweeted after the meeting where the issue of drought in the state was also discussed.
 
 The PMO said, “The Prime Minister also assured the chief minister that all possible assistance would be provided to the state to address the drought situation, and a central team would be deputed to the state shortly“.
 
 As protests demanding the lifting of the ban on bull taming sport jallikattu spread across Tamil Nadu, Paneerselvam rushed here to meet the Prime Minister with a request for an ordinance. “We will soon take steps with the backing of the Centre for the holding of the sport. You will soon see (the steps). All is well that ends well. Wait, good will happen,“ Paneerselvam said after his meeting with the PM.
 
 Speaking about how the impasse can be broken, attorney general Mukul Rohatgi told a TV news channel that the state can pass its own law.
 
 “Sports falls within the domain of the state, it does not fall within the domain of the Centre. Cruelty to animals falls within the domain of the Centre and that is why there is an act on it. So, if the state is desirous of allowing or promoting this sport, the state must bring out a law, if it so chooses. And the law must concern and take into account all the concerns of cruelty“, Mukul Rohatgi told the news channel. 
 
