CHENNAI:   has been a season of turnaround for  . When   (RPS) bought him for Rs 30 lakh at   auctions earlier this year, a far cry from the Rs 1.6 cr he fetched in 2015, the left-arm seamer was not complaining. Having played only one game each for   and Kolkata Knight Riders in the past two years, all the pacer wanted was more game time. With Ashok Dinda failing to deliver, the RPS team management backed the 25-year-old and he repaid their faith, emerging the second highest wicket-taker behind Bhuvneshwar Kumar with 22 scalps in 11 matches. With RPS already in the final, Unadkat has a chance to clinch the purple cap.

 Unadkat has become Steve Smith's go-to man with his ability to bowl slower ones and off-cutters at the death. With the skill of swinging the new ball both ways, he has also been able to pick up wickets up front. Unadkat credits  , with whom he worked at KKR during his initial days, for his success. "I was too star struck by Akram. But I did manage to learn the art of swing bowling from him. I also learnt different ways of gripping the ball which I was not aware of. I have come a long way but the lessons with Akram taught me the basics of bowling," Unadkat told TOI.
 
 Unadkat has not only taken wickets but has also been economical at 7.24. He feels it has a lot to do with accurate field placements. "Both Smith and ( ) Dhonibhai know my strengths so well that they set the fields most of the time. These two guys work in tandem. If one is handling the bowlers, other instructs the fielders. In the end, I am only focused on my bowling," said Unadkat.
 
 But achieving success was never easy for Unadkat, especially after suffering a stress fracture in 2014. In his comeback trail, he had to change his action. He did get 40 wickets on his return to Ranji Trophy but could never translate the success in shorter formats. "The change of action was more to do with my non-bowling arm. Earlier, the momentum was going backward and I had to exert more force. But now, my body is in sync with my action at the point of delivery. With this reworked action, I am able to impart more pace," said Unadkat.
 
 In an IPL season where the Indian bowlers impressed, Unadkat stands out because of his controlled aggression. With Zaheer Khan retired and   at the twilight of his career, does he see himself fitting into the national side? "I don't want to think about national call-ups and lose my focus. My immediate target is to develop my yorkers during the off-season after the IPL. Since I was getting success with my cutters and slower ones this season, I didn't want to try anything new," Unadkat said.
 
