AHMEDABAD:   (CBI) on Monday arrested director of postal services, Manoj Kumar, and senior superintendent of post, Sanjay Akhade, in connection with gross discrepancies in exchanging   that took place post demonetization. A special   court granted a two-day police remand of the accused for custodial interrogation.

 While the figures of the scam is expected to cross Rs 62 lakh, the two officers have been arrested for their alleged role in unauthorized exchange of Rs 6,59,800 in legal tenders against demonetized currency on a non-financial day.
 
 CBI officials said searches were conducted at about nine places in and around the city leading to the recovery of incriminating documents and cash of Rs 2.66 lakh from residence and office premises of Manoj Kumar.
 
 Demonetization was announced on November 8, 2016, and November 9 was a non-financial day, said CBI sources. “It was discovered during initial inquiry that unauthorized exchange of demonetized currency to the tune or Rs 6,59,800 had taken place in legal tenders of Rs 100, Rs 50, Rs 20 and Rs 10 on November 9, as shown by daily closing figures,” said a CBI official.
 
 Earlier, the postal department had lodged a complaint with CBI on March 7 naming the senior postmaster of Navrangpura head office, V K Darji, postmaster R C Vaghela, and assistant postmaster, M A Sabuwala, along with unknown others in currency exchange scam post demonetization.
 
 According to the FIR, there were discrepancies in the amount reported in the record books of Navrangpura head office and what was reported to the senior superintendent of post office (SSPO) during the period when new legal tenders were exchanged against old notes by the postal department.
 
 The   mentions that the total amount exchanged was reported to be Rs 2, 52, 37,500 while the amount reported to SSPO was Rs 1, 90, 34,000. “Therefore, Navrangpura head office reported Rs 62, 03,500 less to the SSPO. The discrepancies in the amount reported is largely due to those reported on two days, November 14 and November 23,” said a CBI official
 
 The FIR also mentions that there were discrepancies in the number of currency exchange forms collected by Navrangpura head office and total worth of demonetized cash received. “1,496 currency exchange forms out of the total 5,667 did not have dates on them,” added a senior CBI official. 
 
