It couldn't have been a better entry into showbiz for   Ramesh Shetty. Since September 2016, she has won two international titles ' Miss Supranational 2016 and Miss Supranational Asia and Oceania 2016 ' and having signed the magnum opus   opposite  , Srinidhi is looking at a long career in showbiz. With the votes received online on http://www.itimes.com/polls, along with our vote, Srinidhi has been chosen as the Bangalore   Most Desirable Woman 2016. Currently nursing a fracture on her leg, she spoke to us about her idea of desirable and more...

 
 You bet! The past five months have been amazing for me. I've seen so much happening in my life and so soon. I had dreams of entering showbiz, but I never imagined getting all of this so quickly. I am enjoying every moment of this as of now. 
 
 You know, I used to religiously vote for people on this poll till last year. I would be spellbound looking at the women who made it to the final list. I used to choose women based on their persona, and not only their looks. I understand that looks are a given for being desirable, but I would also choose women based on how they conduct themselves, their nature and more.
 
 I think it is my smile, and I thank my mother for this. In fact, even in my pageants, I have been crowned the one with the Best Smile. 
 
 I've looked up to  . The way she carries herself, her beauty, her brains and her talent make her complete. I have always been in awe of her.
 
 Oh, it has to be Shah Rukh Khan! He is so charming and wonderful. He tops the list easily, even though he is so much older than I am.
 
 Among Kannada actors, Yash has been my favourite. I've always cheered for him when watching his films. He's currently the best there is in Kannada films, and I'm happy that I am getting to work with him in my debut. Former Mr India runner-up Rahul Rajsekharan Nair is also a worthy contender.
 
 It has to be his eyes. I also look at his dressing and personality, and the way he carries himself. Long-term, though, compatibility is the clincher for me. 
 
 I'm single, happy and living it up!
 
 
