BENGALURU: For two months now, Church Street, Bengaluru's tony avenue known for its eateries and pubs, is literally in tatters. Work to relay the road under TenderSURE has started, but the snail's pace at which it's progressing has irked traders and citizens who love to meet friends at the many watering holes that dot the place. 

  While the Karnataka State Hotel Association put the losses suffered by eateries and pubs on the street at 70%,   officials said the project will take another six months to complete. 
 
 Trenches have been dug up on both sides of the narrow street to lay conduits of utilities - sewers, water pipes, electricity and fibre optic cables. This has made parking impossible on most stretches of the road. As the carriageway has shrunk by more than half and pavements vanished completely, people have to to walk amid moving vehicles. 
 
 If traders and visitors find Church Street miserable, life is nothing short of a nightmare for residents of Church Street and Rest House Crescent Road.
 
  "As this project was long overdue I am okay with the inconvenience caused," said K P  , a resident, adding that it was however frustrating to see senior citizens unable to move out from their homes as walking on the road has become risky. 
 
  Big loss for businesses 
 
    members say they have resigned to suffering losses. "But how long can we bear with this? The trench dug up near the   station is over four months old now and civic agencies have still not completed laying the footpath in this part. The BBMP started to relay Church Street and MG Road as per TenderSURE conditions, but work on MG Road is going at a faster pace than on Church Street," said  , a trader. 
 
 Madhukar M Shetty, secretary of Karnataka State Hotel Association. told TOI: "There are around 86 eateries and restaurants on Church Street, making it a prime business space. At such places, the government has to take up the initiative of allotting alternative parking spaces to help hoteliers sustain their business. An average of 60% to 70% of their business is being affected due to parking problem." 
 
  The limited pay-and-park slots in the area is inconveniencing workers at these establishments as well as commuters. Domonic Aprem, manager of Nosh & Tripple, said, "As we do not offer valet parking and it has become difficult to park on Church Street, we have suffered business losses to the tune of 75%. I am really worried about the next six months. I hope government agencies speed up work." 
 
 Said BBMP executive engineer M Lokesh: "It'll take another six months to complete the project." 
 
 By Dhriti M Shetty
 
