BENGALURU: When Divya Prakash moved into the city a year ago, she was thrilled to quickly find a house she could rent in Koramangala. Then reality hit her. "There were so many things to fix but I didn’t know where to start and whom to approach. I was new to the city and didn’t know Kannada," she says. But finding an odd-job man wasn’t such a task—she downloaded an app and booked the services of an electrician.

 "He came home within two hours and cleaned and changed the battery of the water purifier," says Divya. Since then, she’s used the app for countless odd jobs.
 
 Technology-enabled aggregators of home services have streamlined the largely unorganized sector, making it easier to find plumbers, electricians and handymen. Startups have also brought professionalism into the sector, ensuring that workers arrive on time, don’t overcharge and clean up after themselves.
 
 "That is one of the key things we want — professional delivery of services without having to spend time and energy on supervising work. Plus, the   give us an option for grievance redressal," says Kalpana Shivshankar, an interior designer from Indiranagar.
 
 Prashant K, a Jakkur resident has found a yoga instructor who comes home to teach, using an app. "There are no good gymnasiums where I live. So my wife requested for a yoga trainer through an app. We have fixed the number of classes and the time for him to come home," he says. 
 
 Sarmila Karmakar has used apps to find beauticians who come home. "I had to attend a party but didn’t have time to go to the salon. So I booked a service, and the beautician came to my house. She was very professional," she says. Since then, Sarmila has been using the service every month. She says she also gets good discounts now that she’s a regular.
 
 From home services to laundry, there’s no service that can’t be availed with the tap of a button. Anurima Roy, a student of Mount Carmel College, says, "I use an app to have someone pick up my laundry, get it done and drop it back."
 
 Apps like Dunzo do all sorts of odd jobs from delivering documents to getting your laptop repaired. Ashray Patel, an analyst with a bank, says the convenience and affordability of apps like Dunzo make them indispensable. "I recently had my shoes picked up from a friend’s house. It only cost me Rs 80. Had I gone, it would have cost Rs 300 in cab fare," he says.
 
 Devisha Singh, 22, a student at  , says she uses Dunzo at least thrice a week. "During my final exams, my laptop charger stopped working. I asked Dunzo to get me a new one. They went to two stores to find it, and kept me updated all the while. Instead of wasting an hour and a half trying to search for a laptop charger, I was able to study," she says.
 
 
