PATNA: Railway minister Suresh Prabhu’s stress notwithstanding, catering services on running trains are still far from satisfactory. The general refrain is that food quality has deteriorated further on running trains. Stale food, inflated bills and demand for tips are some of the most common complaints passengers register during or after their train trips. 
 
 Most of the passengers of   (12309) TOI recently talked to alleged that the quality of meals has deteriorated in the premier train. “In the name of meals, passengers are being served stale food in the Rajdhani Express,” said one of the passengers travelling in the train.
 
 According to the aggrieved passengers, while quality of both vegetarian and non-vegetarian meals served in the   is poor, the quality of tea and breakfast also needs to be improved. “Railways is charging flexi fare in the Rajdhani Express from passengers. Thus, elite passengers expect better quality of meals in the train,” said Ashutosh Sinha, an aggrieved passenger. 
 
 The plight of passengers does not end here. All trains originating from Patna Junction are reaching Delhi abnormally late these days due to foggy weather condition prevailing in the north central region. The passengers, therefore, are served just rice and pulse or rice and ‘chhola’ as ‘additional food’. Poor passengers have no option, but to fill their empty belly.
 
 Railways has taken over catering services from Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) under the new catering policy of the Indian Railways. However, IRCTC is still providing catering services in Rajdhani Express and   trains. 
 
 “Railways has directed all its zones to set up a cell for strict monitoring of supply and quality of meals and other items served to passengers on running trains or at railway platforms,” an IRCTC official said. According to sources, Railways has set up a team of commercial inspectors in every zone to carry out surprise check of food quality served to passengers on running trains. These inspectors are authorized to check premier trains like Rajdhani Express and   to ensure supply of quality food to passengers.
 
 Maintaining cleanliness and hygiene while serving food to passengers on running trains is a must for pantry car staff. Under the new catering policy, the Railways has also decided to maintain quality, quantity and price (QQP). However, all these measures, it seems, are on papers only as the ground reality is quite different. “The Railways should implement its proposals and improve quality of food on running trains,” said Amal Gupta, another passenger of the Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express.
 
