Mumbai: Global investor   Capital is attempting to pull off the biggest M&A deal in the Indian healthcare industry through a possible consolidation of   and   Enterprises, people directly familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. This would create the country’s largest healthcare services group rivalling current leader  , if talks fructify.

 TPG has held discussions to buy a large stake along with management control in Fortis Healthcare, owned by Delhi-based billionaire siblings Malvinder and Shivinder Singh of Religare. One of the world’s largest buyout funds, TPG is in simultaneous talks to increase shareholding in Manipal Health, even as it considers an eventual merger between the two, which are the second and third biggest hospital networks in Asia’s third largest economy (see graphic).
 
 Sources cautioned that consolidation talks are still in early stages, and may not lead to any transaction. “We follow a strict disclosure policy and hence are unable to confirm or deny these suggestions,” said a TPG spokesperson. Ranbaxy’s Singh brothers were not available for a comment on the development. Manipal Health Enterprises declined to comment.
 
 TPG owns a 22% stake in the privately held Manipal. Another private equity investor True North (formerly India Value Fund) wants to offload its 18% stake in Manipal and has engaged with TPG and Singapore’s Temasek Holding, sources mentioned earlier in the report said.
 
 The deal-making is likely to be a multi-staged affair, possibly spanning over the next 18 to 24 months, as TPG would initially acquire about 26% ownership and follow it up with a management takeover of Fortis. Last year, a Singapore arbitration panel asked the Singh brothers to pay Japanese pharma giant Daiichi Sankyo Rs 2,500 crore for withholding critical information while selling Ranbaxy Laboratories a decade ago.
 
 Though the two brothers and their holding company have contested the ruling, it would prevent them from transferring majority control straight away, sources said. TPG will pursue a merger to create a healthcare behemoth, but that’s dependent on the progress they make with Fortis, sources added. Recent media reports said Fortis promoters have been in sale talks with multiple investors like KKR and Bain Capital, though TPG is seen as a strong contender.
 
 Given that Fortis is a key rival, TPG will be forced to offload its Manipal shares in the event of the merger not going through.
 
 For now, the Singh brothers are expected to retain minority shares in a proposed combination with the Bengaluru-headquartered Manipal, which is spearheaded by the 43-year-old Ranjan Pai. The combined entity’s market value is estimated at $2.5-3 billion, compared to Apollo’s $2.55 billion at present. Apollo has about 10,000 beds across 70 hospitals, while Fortis and Manipal together would equal or just surpass that figure.
 
 Fortis Healthcare shares closed at Rs 192 on Wednesday on the BSE, pegging its market value at Rs 9,900 crore, or close to $1.5 billion. Manipal Health Enterprises is being valued at slightly over $1 billion as True North looks to sell shares.
 
 India’s healthcare industry is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 13%, hitting Rs 6.85 lakh crore by 2020, on the back of improving healthcare affordability, changing disease patterns, greater health awareness and rising insurance coverage.
 
 The country has 1.3 million hospital beds, translating into nine beds per 10,000 people, which is well below WHO standards. The Indian government runs 6.5 lakh beds, nursing homes and neighbourhood clinics managing 4.2 lakh beds, while 1.8 lakh beds are with standalone private hospitals. The country’s top hospital chains own only 60,000 beds, leaving the industry ripe for consolidation.
 
 In September last year, Fortis shareholders had passed an enabling resolution allowing the company to raise up to Rs 5,000 crore through qualified institutional placements, FCCBs or any other options.
 
 
 
 
