Chandigarh: The municipal corporation (MC) will begin recarpeting 230km of city roads at a cost of Rs 40 crore by next week.

 The engineering wing of the civic body has prepared the financial estimate in a manner so that the work can be started at one point of time instead of preparing the estimates time and again throughout the year, except in some exceptional cases.
 
 Since the three   divisions of the MC have a total of 10 sub-divisions throughout the city, the engineering department has completed the entire exercise during the monsoon period.
 
 The civic body has covered entire area of the city under the project, where recarpeting is required. The project covers sectors, colonies, villages and Industrial Area. Mostly, roads dividing the sectors of the city and dividing sub-sectors have been covered in the project.
 
 “From preparing the estimate of each work of each sub-division till the issuing of allotment work to the successful contractor, everything has been done. We had started work around four months ago to compile the list of each road of the city. Since all the work will be done in one-go, almost all roads requiring recarpeting will be covered,” said a senior official.
 
 A senior officer of the MC said, “Since we have taken all works covering different areas of the city, where condition of roads is pathetic, work will start together and municipal councillors will not have to force us to start work at their respective areas after watching each other’s municipal ward.”
 
 The normal period of road recarpeting is five years and the junior engineer and other senior officers of the sub divisions have to prepare the financial estimates. But, if any problem comes on any particular road before the stipulated period, the officers have to explain the need and tell the valid reason.
 
 GIVING A NEW LOOK
 
 1: Dividing road of sectors 19 and 27
 
 2: Dividing road of sectors 27 and 28
 
 3: Dividing road of sectors 17 and 18
 
 4: Dividing road of sectors 21 and 22
 
 5: Dividing road of sectors 48 and 49
 
 6: Dividing road of sectors 49 and 50
 
 7: Dividing road of sectors 52 and 61
 
 8: Dividing road of sectors 24 and 15
 
 9: Dividing road of sectors 10 and 11
 
 10: Dividing road of sector 14/15
 
 11: Dividing road of sectors 24 and 25
 
 
