:

 In 2015, a case was registered against Hardoi district inspector of schools JP Mishra for facilitating cheating mafia and for giving clearance to three examination centres, debarred by the government for rampant copying
 
 
 :
 
 In 2014, a class X   student in Firozabad, Neeraj immolated himself after he was not allowed to appear for exam for refusing to pay 'protection money'. The boy had claimed the centre superintendent, allegedly associated with cheating mafia of the school which was the exam centre, demanded Rs 3,000 for permission to take exam
 
 
 :
 
 In 2012, a class X UP Board student in Gonda exposed the cheating racket. He recorded activities of the invigilator who dictated answers of the question paper to the students against payment of Rs 15,000
 
 Education mafia stops at nothing to facilitate mass copying in UP Board exams. Within 15 days of the exams, 1,700 cases of cheating were registered with the UP Madhya mik Shiksha Parishad, Asia's biggest examination conducting body. Of these, Ballia leads the pack with 225 cases, followed by Allahabad with 162 cases. Mathura is on the third spot, reporting 136 cases so far.
 
 With each passing year, education mafia has maligned the value of UP Board and in the absence of any strong initiative by successive gover nments to stop cheating, barring introduction of an anti-copying ordinance in 1991-92, the state's then education minister Rajnath Singh, education mafia has thrived in the state over the decades. Cited among rea sons for BJP's loss in the 1993 UP polls, the anti-copying act even provided for sending students caught cheating to jail. Later, the act was amended and reintroduced in a milder form.
 
 Board mafia comprises mostly managers of private (self-finance) colleges who ensure `sure success' charging students high 'fee'. From running fake institutions to mass copying on contract, the nexus involves even political bigwigs.
 
 UP Secondary Teachers' Association state secretary   said managers rope in underpaid, temporary teachers to run the 'copying business'. A subject expert is given a wrong identity card so that a Hindi teacher can pose as a math or English teacher and help students cheat in the Hindi paper.
 
 Students who fail in classes X and XII of different boards are charged huge amounts for pass certificates and division of their choice.“With forged documents, it is proved that the student was enrolled in a particular school for the previous two years,'' said a top education official, pleading anonymity.
 
 Lately, the number of private, unrecognised schools has grown and they are money-spinners run by education mafia, explained Mishra. Since these schools are not affiliated with the board, they show student enrolment from a recognised school, turning them into regular candidates.When there are 500 students from unrecognised schools and 400 from recognised, at the time of filling the form, the recognised schools show 900 students--a surplus of 500--who actually belong to unrecognised schools. All this, said Mishra, takes place in connivance with education officials who help all this take place for a fee.
 
