KOLKATA: All eyes were on the   on Monday and as the clock ticked, a collective groan went up as ‘Lion’, a major part of which is based in Kolkata, lost out on the  

 However, ‘Jungle Book’ — that captures young Mowgli’s heroics in an Indian jungle — bagged the   in the ‘Visual Effects’ category, giving Bengal a reason to cheer.  , who was part of a Bangalore team that worked on the movie’s VFX, is now waiting to hold the statuette a second time in four years. As part of the ‘Life of Pi’ team, he was one of the privileged ones to pick up the Oscar when it was brought down to the company he works for in 2013.
 
 “I was part of the roto-prep department in ‘Jungle Book’. For example, when Mowgli is moving, the animal characters shown on screen — be it Bagheera or Baloo — are in reality dummies or actors in suits. Our job was to prepare these figures such that they can be seamlessly replaced with CGI,” said 30-year-old Abhishek.
 
 His dream run hasn’t been smooth. Rather, it was pockmarked with hurdles. After completing a course at a Park Street centre, he boarded a train to Mumbai to try his luck and took shelter in a friend’s room, handing out pamphlets to earn a little. Multiple interviews at animation studios later, he finally got a call and landed his first screen credit with ‘Tron: Legacy’ (in 2010 as digital compositor). 
 
 “When the time came to decide on a career, he said everyone is aiming to be a doctor or engineer but he wants to pursue his dream. I was scared as we had no contacts in Mumbai but he’s so strong mentally, everything has fallen into place,” said his father Subhash Chandra Ghorui, a retired coal official.
 
 “After Plus 2, I had taken up computer science at a college under Calcutta University. But programming didn’t attract me at all. So I decided to give VFX a go. When two of the films I has worked for were nominated, I was hopeful to be part of Oscar history. But the surreal moment came when ‘Life of Pi’ bagged the top prize and the statuette was brought to our office,” Abhishek told TOI on Monday.
 
 While he waits to get close to the golden icon, this time it could be double the dizziness. “We won the BAFTA earlier this month and it’s likely the two awards will travel together to the country,” he said. Of course, he wouldn’t miss a photo-op for the world.
 
 A lot has changed between ‘Pi’ and ‘Jungle book’. “I got married, for one. Then, career-wise, whereas I was an artist, I am now the show leader for my team,” Abhishek reflected. 
 
 The Durgapur boy is now waiting for the release of Ridley Scott’s ‘Alien: Covenant’, where he is credited as a digital artist. The legendary Scott, who has so far been nominated four times for his masterpieces ((Thelma & Louise, Gladiator, Black Hawk Down and The Martian), is yet to bag an Oscar. Will Abhishek turn out to be his lucky charm next year?
 
 
