VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when   is expected to revamp the H1-B and L-1 visa programmes, representatives of   firms are of the view that such a move will not adversely affect companies operating from Vizag and having clients in the US. 

 Instead, according to IT and ITES firms, a reverse migration may actually help the companies to lure talent in the senior management level, which has been difficult until now, to the port city.
 
 At the same time, IT and ITES companies say cost of running projects may increase for US clients as they will have to replace IT professionals from India with a more expensive work force available in the US. Also, several consultancies, which were till now using H1-B visas to send IT professionals to the US, may take a hit in the coming days.
 
 Speaking to TOI, president of the IT Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAAP)   said, “The IT component of exports from Vizag is about 20 per cent whereas 80 per cent of the exports are from the KPO/BPO (knowledge process outsourcing/business process outsourcing). The impact on Vizag due to H1-B overhaul is going to be low as not many people are sent from here. But, the cost of projects may go up. Eventually, the cost will be passed on to the US clients.”
 
 Further, he said, “Usually, only about 10 per cent of a team handling a project is given H1-B and the remaining 90 per cent of the team works from India. So, outsourcing of work will continue.” He also said, “There are already a lot of people who want to come back. So some of them may come and start their own enterprise.”
 
 Referring to the possibility of reverse migration, ITAAP secretary   said, “As of now, there is a lot of confusion. However, we can expect some reverse migration in the next two to three months. Even though Vizag doesn’t have as many opportunities as compared to cities like Hyderabad or Bengaluru, many companies which are looking for senior management people, may be able to fill the positions due to reverse migration.”
 
 Another senior IT executive, who didn’t want to be named said, “There is a buzz that many of the companies are making some kind of termination of   holders. Also, some of the Indians working there are feeling that there is a slight increase in racism during the recent past. But, overall, offshore development will continue to grow as the cost will be higher if US clients decide to hire local resources.”
 
