THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   minister   on Wednesday blamed the international funding agency World Bank for the poor performance of the second phase of   ( ).But shifting the blame is unlikely to help the state government hide systemic failures that led to delays in project implementation.

 More than four years after the KSTP-II project was launched, it could spent only 27% of the loan disbursed by the World Bank. According to the assessment report published by World Bank after its mission visit in April, of the $216 million released, the KSTP-II spent only $58.22 million. The remaining $157.78 million is yet to be disbursed.It is worth noting that PWD minister has pointed fingers at the World Bank on a project, which is being probed by vigilance after PWD's own internal vigilance found various irregularities.
 
 It seems that the project of ficials and government has learnt nothing from the implementation of first phase of KSTP. If land acquisition was the major hurdle in KSTP-I, reluctance of officials to clear pending arrears is creating issues for KSTP-II.
 
 Like in the case of KSTP-I, contractors of KSTP-II are planning to approach arbitration tribunal with claims that may bleed the state exchequer.In KSTP-I, contactor Pati-Bel, which did a Rs 214 crore project had filed for an arbitration claim of Rs 125 crore, while   which won a contract amount of Rs 92 crore, claimed Rs 70 crore arbitration, Road Builders  's claim is for Rs 80 crore. In KSTP-II, the Es sar-Sacyr consortium was terminated for its failure to take up Rs 234-crore ThalasseryValavupara project. It has filed an arbitration for Rs 150 crore.Following the delay on part of the KSTP to release pending payments, most of other project contractors have decided to go for arbitration. Pending dues of contractors would come to around Rs 150 crore.
 
 As per the agreement with World Bank, FIDIC contract developed by International Federation of Consulting Engineers, is applicable for work.Compared to PWD manual, which is biased to government, FIDIC gives equal prominence to both contractor and the employer. As per FIDIC rules, the fund has to be released within 15 days after submission of bills. If the employers need any clarification, it has to be sorted out and fund must be released within 56 days. However, many KSTP contractors have been waiting for over eight months.
 
 The government is delaying the payment of contractors following doubts raised by the Chief Technical Examiner (CTE) on certain works. World Bank is of the view that   has no role in the agreement between contractor and the KSTP. Only a steering committee headed by chief secretary could take a decision on the pending payment and that too should be cleared within 56 days. Sources said that consultants also tried to delay the project for undue gains.
 
