(Cleared/ Gopa)

 When C Anandaraj visited the Government Rajaji Hospital with his wife for a dental problem a few months ago, he was shocked to realise that the biggest government hospital in the state did not have facilities other than for filling or removing decayed teeth. However, he refused to leave it at that and took the matter to court. The court ordered installation of dental ceramic lab not just in GRH but in all medical college hospitals in the state before the end of March 2017. Each lab roughly costs about Rs 20 lakh and is essential to carry out treatments such as root canal which has so far been considered as cosmetic treatment. 
 
 Armed with public interest litigation (PILs) petitions, Anandaraj has done miracles in the health service by pressuring the government machinery. He has been single-handedly bringing about monumental changes in government hospitals. He has secured orders directing the state government to bring cadaver organ transplantation facility in all medical college hospitals and headquarters hospitals, MRI scan facility in all the 32 headquarters hospitals, biometric attendance for doctors, computerisation of stocks in pharmacy and filling up of all vacant doctor posts in southern district hospitals. 
 
 So what drives this 35-year-old man’s public health activism? Son of a load man, Anandaraj saw his father spending all his earnings on treating ailments in a private hospital. It had a big impact on him and got him thinking. Why is it that government hospitals are unable to provide better treatment that private hospitals, which the poor cannot afford, are able to. “It was then that I started working in the health sector which directly impacts the poor in their everyday life. For me, it is the primary responsibility of the government to spend on education and health care. It cannot shrug off its responsibility and let private players capitalise on it,” he says. 
 
 In his observation, a substantial saving of one’s income is spent on health. People go to private hospitals because of unavailability of facilities in government hospital, overcrowding and the stigma attached. “Gone are the days when leaders like C N Annadurai and Kakkan were treated in government hospitals. The biggest challenge working in the health sector is identifying the lacuna or deficiency of service since it is full of jargons and technical aspects,” he says. 
 
 Although he has filed more than 100 PILs and got orders in favour, he has not been invited the ire of judges even once. He has acquired more than 3,000 pages of documents through RTIs and also meets students occasionally to create awareness about health activism. His aim is to motivate the youth to be vigilant of the ways the hospitals are functioning and pressurise the management. He also inspires law students to file PILs for the welfare of the poor people, while he himself has now enrolled for a degree in law. 
 
 Showing a huge chunk of documents related to court orders, Anandaraj says his responsibility has now doubled as he has to follow-up on all of them and see that everything was implemented properly.
 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 ORDERS ANANDARAJ’S PILs ACHIEVED
 
 Post dentists and install ceramic dental lab in all government medical college hospitals before March-end 
 
 Start separate unit in all MCHs to sensitise relatives and harvest organs from brain dead persons
 
 Facility for organ transplantation in all the 32 headquarters hospitals in three years. 
 
 Computerise stocks in government hospital pharmacies
 
 Install MRI scans in all government headquarters hospitals in a year
 
 Ensure biometric attendance of doctors in all hospitals in four months
 
 Perform cochlear implant surgery in GRH free of cost
 
 Over 40 children have benefited from this so far as cochlear implant surgery costs around Rs 8 lakh in private hospitals. 
 
 
