NEW DELHI:   has vehemently denied allegations by the   (ED) that its overseas hotels were purchased with “illegal money”. In a statement, the group said, “There is no illegal money in Sahara.

 Sahara has submitted with   3.03 crore investor application forms and 2.24 crore redemption vouchers, all original, receipt where of Sebi acknowledges. Sebi is yet to verify those documents and conduct verification of investors. As such the allegations are not only absurd and unfounded, but misleading also.”
 
 The statement came in response to reports that the Enforcement Directorate has moved the   seeking provisional attachment of the group’s three hotels and four other properties abroad which the agency alleged were acquired with illegal money.
 
 The agency said market regulator Sebi came to know that   had together collected Rs 25,000 crore from around the crore investors through unsecured optionally fully convertible debentures (OFCDs), which were later declared illegal by the Supreme Court, after Sahara Prime City Ltd filed a draft red herring prospectus for a proposed initial public offer on September 30, 2009.
 
 In its statement, the group further added, “Saharas’ RHP was registered by registrar of companies/ministry of corporate affairs, whereas Sebi had claimed jurisdiction over the said issue and the Hon-’ble Supreme Court observed the same a ‘Deemed Public Issue’ meaning we did not register ourselves with Sebi for our private placement of OFCD. 
 
 Though we were registered with ministry of corporate affairs and we all along knew ministry of corporate affairs is our Regulator. We used to submit returns, balance sheets etc. to ministry of corporate affairs and they used to inspect, investigate us and above all ministry of corporate affairs only gave us the written permission to raise OFCDs.”
 
 “As such, when every penny is accounted for, then how can, under  , ED talk about ‘money laundering’? How can there be two different allegation(s) for one Act?” the group asked.
 
