PUNE: An early morning blaze on Tuesday   — five two-wheelers and two four-wheelers — parked along a road near  .

 The fire triggered panic among local residents. Soot blackened an adjacent building, right up to the first storey. Firefighters acted quickly, putting out the fire inside 15 minutes.
 
 Balasaheb Surve, senior inspector of the Vishrambaug police station, said that the motorcycles destroyed in the fire were scrap, and parked there by a mechanic who was asked to vacate his garage. “There was garbage near the parked vehicles. Someone must have set the garbage on fire in the wee hours, causing the damage,” Surve said. 
 
 Anil Karde, from the Pune fire brigade, said they got a call around 5am. “When we reached the spot, we saw five bikes and two four-wheelers, including a van, had gone up in flames. The van was completely destroyed, while the tyres of another car had started to burn. We doused the fire before it could reach the engine,” Karde said. 
 
 The fire was extinguished before it could damage the other cars and two-wheelers parked nearby.
 
 Girish Shinde, whose friend owned the van that was gutted, was alerted to the fire by his neighbours. “I had parked the van near my house as I was going to buy it from my friend,” he told TOI.
 
 Police have registered an offence under section 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) of the Indian Penal Code, against unidentified persons. “Further probe is on,” police said.
 
 Jilted lover a suspect in   incident
 
 Investigations by the Bibvewadi police have revealed that Sunday’s incident was the outcome of an alleged love affair turned sour. Cops have arrested four persons under section 435 of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 As per the police, one of the suspects was seeing an engineering student, who ended the relationship a few months ago. She later started seeing another youth from the same area. 
 
 “The suspect, in his words, was driven into a fit of rage when the youth sent him a few of her photos. He gathered three of his friends and set the youth’s motorcycle on fire,” said inspector Santosh Barge.
 
