Changing rules and policies regarding the nightlife sector is something that restaurant owners in NCR are now used to. But the recent Supreme Court ruling that sale of liquor will not be allowed within 500 metres of national and state highways came as a shock to restaurateurs in Gurgaon. There were speculations that the ruling might lead to hotels and restaurants in   and Sector 29 losing their liquor licence. Now, all fears have been laid to rest. Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi has told the Kerala government that the order applies only to liquor vends and not bars and restaurants that serve alcohol. The AG’s view could apply to other states as well as the court-imposed deadline to shut down liquor vends from April 1 approaches. The AG’s clarification has been welcomed by restaurateurs, who say that it is important to understand that pubs cannot be equated with tin shed vends that can be relocated anywhere.

 
  
  
 
 
  
  Last month we had reported on the panic in Gurgaon's nightlife sector regarding the SC order
 
 
 
 Rahul Singh, vice-president of Nation Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) and owner of Beer Cafe in Cyber Hub, says, "The SC order had directed state governments to not renew licences of liquor vends operating within 500 metre of state and national highways after April 1, holding them as a prime reason behind fatalities caused by drunken driving. Liquor vends sell liquor which is potable and carried outside the shop. Restaurants and hotels serve liquor to patrons for on-premise consumption – with a safe and secure environment, and under the various standards and regulations set to operate the establishment. They can’t be equated with tin shed vends that can be dismantled and relocated anytime. We are ecstatic with the decision of the Haryana government to protect the interest of the industry."
 
  Zorawar Kalra, owner of   in Cyber Hub, says that this clarification is a big relief for the restaurant industry. "I would really like to thank the judiciary for stepping in and giving this clarification, and also the excise department for their support. They had told us about the confusion and asked us to get a clarification. We needed a clear statement for distinction between liquor vends and hotels and restaurants. We are against drunken driving and the guests we cater to have a different profile, we can’t be put in the same category as liquor vends," he says.
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
 Recently, the excise department had agreed to Gurgaon restaurateurs’ appeal that serving liquor in open air seating should be made legal, provided the restaurants fulfill certain conditions. However, the final clearance was still awaited. Restaurateurs say that the excise department was waiting for a clarity on the Supreme Court order. 
 
  "Though the SC order clearly stated liquor vends, there was still some confusion and even the excise department was trying to get clarity before taking any final decision. Agar restaurant hi band ho jaata toh hum terrace permission ka kya karte? This clarity will make make the process of getting terrace permissions faster," says Sharad Madan from   in Cyber Hub. 
 
  Ashwini Chaudhary from Soi7 Pub and Brewery adds, "No one wants to take any risk when the Supreme Court passes an order. So it was understandable that the excise department was taking its time and trying to get clarity. There hasn’t been any final communication to us so far in this regard, and we will wait for a written order now."
 
  
 Though restaurateurs were sure that they did not come under liquor vends, they say that they needed clarity before they could apply for licence renewal, appoint new staff and chalk out expansion plans. 
 
  "We wouldn’t have been able to sustain business without selling liquor. I was already thinking what would happen if I needed to relocate my business, what would happen to the staff, investments. Now we can think about expansion plans. We want to share our happiness with our guests as well, and we will soon come up with some special offers to celebrate this news," says Inderjeet Banga, owner of Prankster at Sector 29. 
 
  Sahil Sambhi from Molecule Air Bar in Sector 29 adds, "Though my restaurant was just outside the 500 m radius, there was still this fear of losing business. We needed clarity to go ahead and apply for licence renewals and plan for the new financial year beginning April 1."
 
  
 Before the clarification, the Gurgaon excise department had identified 43 liquor vends and 143 pubs which could be affected by the Supreme Court order. After the Attorney General’s statement, an excise official tells us, "We have completed our survey and we are waiting for a response from our legal experts. We have not made any move yet and will comply with the order. If the order doesn't apply to pubs and restaurants, that will hold true for the whole country, not just Gurgaon. We will take action only after we are clear about the order."
 
 -With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
 
