KOLHAPUR: In order to ease rush at the  , the ministry of road transport upgraded the   of fees for licences and other-RTO related work across the district.

 The newly developed licensing system   has been facing technical glitches for the past few days now.
 
 According the RTO officials, the internet speed is very slow adding to pending license work. Besides, slow internet speed, there is an acute shortage of technical staff causing delay in day to day work of the citizens. The staffs also complain about the authority’s negligence towards proper infrastructure at the district RTO office.
 
 Sarathi 4.0 online system of licensing has been started on a pilot basis. The online system is used for online license appointment and online examination of applicants for their learning license.
 
 The office has deployed only three computers for applicants appearing under learning license examination. On a average there are around 140 applicants invited daily for the online license learning examinations and due to shortage of computers the whole process is been delayed.
 
 A candidate who was appearing for online examination said, “I have applied for the learning license. I had fixed an appointment for examination. But, after coming here the server has not been responding which has delayed our exam by four hours. The examination process took entire day for completion. The RTO officers claim the system but they are also not proficient in their work.”
 
 Regional Transport Officer (RTO) D T Pawar said, “The RTO system is very slow. We are trying to figure out problems and find solutions for proper functioning of the system. We are trying to find a solution for the problem in the coming fortnight. Our officers are technically sound to manage to get back the system into proper track.”
 
 A RTO official said, “We lack basic infrastructure to operate district RTO operations. The situation is so bad that we don’t have electricity back up when the power goes off. The computers are in a bad shape. It will take time until which we will have to try and co-operate with the operations. Apart from infrastructural issues, the system is bound with high level of corruption which must be cleansed as soon as possible.”
 
 
