PUNE: Keeping in with its aim of improving voter   to 70% at this month’s civic elections, the   has reached out to the corporate sector.

 In separate meetings with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), state election commissioner J S Saharia suggested encourage employees to vote by offering them an incentive. 
 
 “They were very receptive to our appeal,” said Saharia. He said most employees do not belong to the state, but hoped they had registered as fresh   for these elections.
 
 Studies conducted by local institutes found that two sections of the society record low voter turnouts — the IT sector and the labour class. 
 
 “ Companies anyway give the necessary half-day leave. In addition, if they can announce a team programme in which the team with the maximum voters will be rewarded, it will go a long way towards ensuring they go vote,” said Saharia.
 
 The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), meanwhile will conduct a meeting ahead of the elections to encourage its 3,000 members as well as employees to vote. 
 
 “We were not a part of this meeting, but we will ensure that we hold meeting and urge everyone to vote in the corporation elections,” said Anant Sardeshmukh, MCCIA director general.
 
 However, there are those who are against giving such incentives. “We already give all employees time-off to encourage them to vote. Voting is a duty, and to give incentives will not be right,” said Anand Deshpande, founder and CEO of Persistent Systems.
 
 Meanwhile, those in the IT sector feel this drive should have begun a long time ago. “Not finding our names on the list for the Lok Sabha elections had put us off,” said Sharada Srivastava, an IT professional working in Hinjewadi. “We had moved from Nagpur eight years ago and registered to vote here, but we could not find our names. Online, only one of our names can be found,” she said.
 
 Another IT voter said the EC should have ensured those who have lived here for more than 10 years are registered as voters. “I do not think IT professionals don’t vote. They stay away as they are registered to vote in another state. But there are many who have registered and we hope they find their names,” said Nimrit Kaur, a voter said.
 
 
