VASCO: The   on Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) proposed projects saw demands for a   to be registered against   and the agency that filed the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report for “fraudulent details in the report” and also for failing to answer objections raised by speakers. 

 Meanwhile, the team of MPT officials, who had no answer to the discrepancies in the EIA report, said that they would submit their replies in writing.
 
 After a two-day gap, on Tuesday, the hearing took up the adjourned issue of the dredging of the channel by MPT.
 
 Secretary, Goencha Ramponkaracho Ekvott, Olencio Simoes said that MPT, in a reply to National Green Tribunal (NGT), had mentioned that 65% of dredging had been completed, whereas the EIA report put the figure at 55%. 
 
 Officials of the MPT and the agency responsible for the EIA report had no answers to the inconsistent figures and additional collector Johnson Fernandes said that the same has been recorded in the minutes of the hearing. “The MPT team has violated the norms of public hearings by not being able to give suitable replies to queries,” he said.
 
 Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, criticizing MPT chairman I Jeyakumar for calling Goan “outsiders” said, “We are Goans first and then Vascoites. NGOs and activists have produced facts about Vasco, which the MPT seems to be unaware of.” 
 
 Almeida questioned environment engineer of Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), Sanjeev Joglekar, as to what action the board had taken against MPT for the pollution it has created in Vasco, which finds mention in the GSPCB report. He asked GSPCB to withdraw MPT’s permission to operate and said, “Permission for expansion in coal handling should be denied, instead regulate the coal that is already coming to the port.” 
 
 Leader of Congress Legislative Party, Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, did not get an opportunity to speak, but he told reporters on the sidelines of the hearing that the CLP will pass a resolution to oppose MPT’s expansion plans. “We will raise relevant questions in the assembly,” he said and added that the party will come out on the road, if needed, in protest against both, the MPT and central ministers who are forcefully trying to get the projects through.
 
 Also present were Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes and Nuvem MLA Wilfred D'Souza.
 
 Simoes raised questions like whether any study had been carried out on the impact of dredging activity on the rock bed and on Goa’s fishing community, especially those of South Goa. 
 
 Vasco resident Abhijeet Prabhudesai said the EIA report made no mention of an air pollution monitoring unit or any flora and fauna study. Saying that the report shows Vasco as being at a distance of 5km from MPT when, in fact, MPT falls within Vasco’s jurisdiction, he added, “The MoEF has completely misled the people of Vasco. When the other works carried out, like that of constructing an over bridge, double tracking of the railway line were targeted at facilitating MPT’s expansion plan, they have shown the two projects as independent of each other. It clearly proves this public hearing to be null and void, as the EIA report has been illegally done.” 
 
 A businessman from Vasco, Parshuram Shety, said that it was a shame to the country that it has such incompetent engineers and scientists, who could not answer simple questions. 
 
 A resident of Raia, Cedrick D'Souza, said that his family had to move out of Vasco after the coal pollution started increasing. “It is high time the MPT moved out of Goa. The people of Goa are fed up.” 
 
 Judith Almeida from Goa Civic and Consumer Forum said MPT was on a 99-year lease, which was nearing its end. 
 
 A civil engineer,  , asked the chair to brief the public that if tomorrow, due to the expansion, there was any loss to life and property, who would be responsible and what would be done to recompense the people. 
 
 The hearing, that was initially scheduled for three days, will continue for the sixth day, on Wednesday.
 
