BHATINDA: On a day of political leaders in Malwa region changing loyalties,   (SGPC) member Gurpal Singh Gora left the SAD and joined Congress along with six Akali sarpanches in Giddarbaha, while Punjab Youth Congress general secretary Gurkimat Singh Sidhu resigned from the party to join the   (TMC) in the presence of the party’s state president, Jagmeet Brar, in Barnala.

 Former AAP member  , who had resigned from AAP on Saturday, joined TMC in Bathinda. At Talwandi Sabo, AAP youth wing state committee member Mandeep Kaur Brar ditched the party for SAD.
 
 Gora had won the SGPC election from Giddarbaha on September 22, 2011, with the biggest margin across the state, 37,000 votes. There were talks in AAP in October 2015 that Gora had joined AAP and accepted an AAP scarf from the party’s then state convener,  . At that time, Gora clarified that he had not joined AAP, but only met Chhotepur.
 
 Gora joined Congress in the presence of Youth Congress president Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, former finance minister   and Congress MLA Ajaib Singh Bhatti, and announced to work for Warring’s victory. “I was feeling suffocated in SAD. There is no value now of old guards in the party. I decided to join Congress with a heavy heart,” he said.
 
 Joining TMC, Sidhu said though the Congress had promised to give tickets to youth, only few of them had been fielded. “I will ensure TMC leaders win in this election,” he said.
 
 A former office-bearer of AAP’s trade and industry wing, Gill joined TMC in the presence of Brar. She has been appointed as the convener of the party’s campaign committee. Gill said AAP had distributed tickets wrongly. “Tickets have been given after throwing merit in the dustbin. Going by the wrong distribution of tickets, I decided to join TMC,” she said.
 
 Brar, who was AAP’s student wing state vice-president, joined SAD in the presence of Talwandi Sabo MLA and SAD candidate Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu and announced to work for the victory of Akali candidate.
 
 ‘AAP was selling tickets’
 
 AAP’s student wing office-bearer Mandeep Kaur Brar claimed while joining the SAD on Sunday that she resigned from the party because it was “selling tickets”.
 
 Kaur said though she was ineligible to contest the elections because she was aged 22, she wanted the ticket to be allotted to a leader e on merit. A BSc in mathematics and computer management, Brar claimed that she had campaigned for AAP in the Delhi elections and was also a part of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s Lok Sabha election campaign in Varanasi in 2014. 
 
 Mandeep had accused some Akali activists of her village of regularly abusing her in September 2016. On joining SAD, she said the “misunderstanding” had been cleared by SAD MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu. “I along with many other youths had sacrificed our studies for revolution in Punjab through the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, but all our hopes have been dashed,” she said.
 
