In a report released on Wednesday, the Bill &   Foundation praised India's efforts at digital financial inclusion, citing Aadhaar as a system that has made banking simpler and more secure for the poor. The report called Goalkeepers: The Stories Behind the Data points out that two billion people worldwide still live completely outside the financial system. It references research conducted by Rohini Pande, professor of public policy at  , whose studies show that women who received wages in their own bank accounts worked more and saved more. Having used a bank account changed their sense of self, notes Pande, adding that they began describing their occupation as “worker“ instead of “housewife“.

 The research also showed how payment banks in villages helped women access financial services easily, a key factor in poverty elimination.
 
 The report is also a grim reminder of what could happen if governments and donors grow sluggish. An example of this is HIV, a focus area for the Gates in their initial years in India. The  , in Seattle, estimates that a 10% budget cut would cost an additional 5.6 million lives globally by 2030, over and above current projections.
 
 While noting the success in reducing child mortality under 5, the report points out that the projected number of children who will die if efforts slide is a whopping 3.3 million by 2030. But if efforts are stepped up, it could fall to 2 million. Malawi came in for praise for work in this area. One in four children died here in 1990.Today, it's one in 16.
 
 The Goalkeepers report also draws attention to successful interventions that can be widely emulated. For instance,   managed to promote family planning with help from unlikely and influential quarters its religious leaders. The Islamic Network on Population has trained over 3,000 imams on the benefits of contraceptives, and these men, who were once rigidly opposed to the idea, now propagate it.
 
 The report is the first in a series the foundation plans to bring out till 2030 target year for the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
 
