CHENNAI: In a shocking incident, a total of 52 motor accident compensation case bundles have gone missing from   courts located on  . Interestingly, all 52 bundles belong to one advocate, which indicates professional rivalry among lawyers, as well as collusion among lawyers, court officials and brokers thriving in 'accident compensation' cases. 

 "All the bundles belong to one advocate, and the cases were pending in the first six small causes courts functioning on the Madras high court campus," a court officer told TOI, adding that several court officials, some of them on judicial side, have been issued memo. "But the real problem is reconstructing the case bundles which looks impossible, as the cases were in different stages of hearing. It is a clear subversion of judicial process," he said. 
 
  Chennai has six small causes courts, besides two special courts, for motor accident claims cases. A total of about 8,500 new cases are filed every year in these courts. At present, each court is burdened with anywhere between 2,000 and 3,000 cases. That explains why the case bundles are kept under lock, and are treated like trash by bench clerks and those assisting them. 
 
 But, the loss of   belonging to one advocate, that too from six different courts, have left the entire subordinate Bar in a daze and judicial officers in utter embarrassment. So much so that now a couple of court halls are locked even during lunch breaks. Also, lawyers who used to go near the podium and physically verify case bundles, have been barred from going anywhere near the stack. The bundle theft is also attributed to 'misunderstanding' among lawyers, police personnel and brokers over sharing of the compensation amount in specific cases. It is common knowledge in motor accident claims tri bunal circles that the top 10 lawyers dealing in such cases have a big network of brokers, and they also keep police stations in good humour by paying even advance money ranging from `2 lakh to `3 lakh.
 
 “It is not possible to independently walk into a police station and come out with all relevant papers, unless we are assisted by the brokers who are always present in police stations, or lawyers `attached' to such stations,“ said a veteran lawyer. Once an ac cident is reported, it is the broker and these lawyers who get the tip-off from police.
 
 If a different advocate enters the scene, he is not given even a copy of the FIR which would be flaunted by the broker. The station lawyer-broker duo would then directly approach the victims and offer money to take up the case.“
 
 “Road accident victims are entitled to `1lakh compensation from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. Police would require to get endorsements from victim's family , tahsildhar and district collector to claim the dole. And this formality would be endlessly delayed if the case is not han dled by `station lawyers'.“About 90% of cases go only to `station lawyers',“ said a lawyer. Rivalry over bagging accident cases has now spilled over to courts, and resulted in bundle theft, too.
 
 One solution being offered by lawyers to smash the broker menace in police stations, is to bring the traffic investigation wing too under intelligence section (IS) scrutiny.
 
 “At present only crime and law and order police are under IS radar. If traffic investigation wing too is monitored by IS, it would reduce the scourge to a large extent,“ he said.
 
