HYDERABAD: For someone with such clarity of thought and mind, it's a tad unfortunate that   D   was third time unlucky . The 26-year-old from Hyderabad, who has lofty ambitions, slipped in unnoticed after a bronze medal performance at the   in Tehran -a repeat of 2012 in Khanty-Mansysk and 2015 in Sochi. None the worse for the wear after some nerve-wracking battles, Harika was her usual, candid self. Former knockout World Champion   of Russia also won the bronze as both semifinal losers are awarded medals.

 “I've always expected to win gold,“ No. 4 seed Harika told TOI on Monday . “If I look at it one way, bronze might look a lesser achievement, but winning that in a World Championship, back to back, in knockouts is also not so easy . I should at some point be gentle on myself and happy with what I've achieved.“ The need for gentleness is not unfounded given the stiff competition she faced in the semifinal against No. 9 seed Tan Zhongyi, who clinched the first of the two-game match, leaving Harika on the brink. “I have enough experience to understand the knockout system, not put myself under pressure and to be always positive. It just happened at the last moment. In my head I was sorted. I was confident and I did my best. I don't have any regrets or complaints at the way I played.“ No regrets, indeed, not after the way she stormed back to draw level after 162 moves. Especially , after many wondered if she had forgotten the W manoeuvre to mate in classical variation.
 
 “We learn the mate from bishop, knight and king. It's a normal, basic thing, but you never experience it in a serious tournament. Of course, I know how to do it, but there's such tremendous pressure. Even by mistake, if something goes wrong, I'm out of the Championship. I was also tired after such long hours of play . Every day was a fight, every day I was playing and preparing off the board too. So, I was more cautious than normal.But that game was very important to win and come back.“
 
 “When you lose one and win one, you just try to focus on the game and that's what I tried to do. It's a bit unfortunate that towards the end I blundered a pawn in the second tiebreak. I started to be more cautious and somewhere in the end, I didn't have much time, blundered and lost. But I know these things happen.“
 
 Mental fatigue, probably , had something to do with it. “It was 14 long days and that was the 15th day and I was still fighting.Off the board you prepare a lot. It takes your whole energy and can lead to tired ness. Like I said, in my head I was sorted, but I think unknowingly , tiredness made me a little slow than my usual self.“
 
 Harika has herself to blame, though.For in each of her four match wins from Round 1 to quarterfinals she needed rapid tiebreaks. It meant no rest days as tiebreaks are played a day after two-game mini matches of classical chess. On the other hand, No.2 seed Anna Muzhychuk of Ukraine won each of her five matches so far without needing a tiebreak once.Her clear superiority in the longer format against her opponents gave her the deserved rest days instead of playing shorter time control tiebreaks.
 
 The year gone by also saw Harika achieve her best in terms of ranking at No. 5, but being the numero uno is her goal. “I've always set higher targets for myself. I want to be world No.1.“
 
 
