THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , arrested for alleged   of housewife, is likely to continue as MLA as the   is apprehensive of its prospects in a bypoll.

 The assembly constituency,  , located in southwest Thiruvananthapuram, is dominated by Nadar, Ezhava and LatinCatholic communities. The segment, which favoured the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in six consecutive elections before 2016, swung in favour of the United Democratic Front ( ), which fielded dark horse Vincent of the Congress. One of the reasons that helped Vincent win over sitting MLA Jameela Prakasam of the Janata Dal (Secular) by a margin of 2,615 votes was the presence of Bharat Dharma Jana Seva (BDJS) candidate T N Suresh, who garnered 30,987 votes.
 
 The state leadership of the Congress is aware that an ambitious BDJS had then eaten into the LDF vote share, giving UDF the leading edge. A year later, BDJS has lost its sheen, and the district Congress committee stands divided. The LDF, meanwhile, has mustering support from all corners, employing unconventional and innovative methods.
 
 The UDF knows well that going for a bypoll in Kovalam will be suicidal. The reality of a bleak chance in Kovalam--more than love for Vincent--reflected in KPCC acting president M M Hassan and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala's words that the arrested MLA need not resign.
 
 The same political pragmatism has also led senior leader and Vattiyoorkavu MLA K Muraleedharan to toe the party line, deviating from his usual style.
 
 The parent party's decision, however, has not gone down well with Mahila Congress state president Bindu Krishna and former president Shanimol Usman. Both have been clamouring for Vincent's resignation on moral grounds. Shanimol went a step further and said the Vincent she knows would not wait until the party asks him to resign. She was soon proved wrong as the MLA declared in front of Neyyattinkara police station that he would continue, and wage a legal battle.
 
 Congress sources said that the KPCC leadership asked women leaders to tone down. Hassan, while asserting that the arrest was politically motivated, added that Mahila Congress leaders enjoyed the freedom of opinion.
 
 The timing of the case has put the Congress at a disadvantage.Chennithala and Hassan had been vociferous in criticising AMMA leadership when Dileep was arrested. Instant support to Vincent and accusations of political motivations exposed their double standards, while CM Pinarayi Vijayan used the opportunity to reiterate that the government would not interfere in probe.
 
