The writing of   spans so many genres, from comic strips to noir fantasy and books for young adults, that it is hard to pigeonhole him. Gaiman is now completing his new project called Norse Mythology, a retelling of Norse myths. He spoke to 
 over the phone from London about his work, collaborations and influences

 
 It will be a retelling of the Poetic Edda, which is a long cycle of poems in Old Norse. In Iceland, these poems were preserved, mostly for and by poets themselves, in the pre-Christian era. But as Christianity moved from Germany to   and finally to Iceland around 1,000 years ago, with rapid conversion, the Norse gods and their tales were threatened. I wanted to bring those stories back for a modern readership.
 
  
 
 Well, for hundreds of years, these stories were taken as literal truth by those who told them and heard them, in the sense that the Bible is taken as literal truth by Christian believers. These stories were also guides to survival in a very cold, harsh world. Their world was very different, say, from the Hellenic world, with grapes, wine, peacocks, pools and time to admire your reflection in the water. The Norse world is relentlessly hostile, it’s a place that wants to kill you…
 
  
 
 Isn’t it? In Norse, Hel is a place where people go to die. It’s presided over by a female deity also called Hel. The Norse make a distinction between ways of dying. One is to die like most people, in sickness, old age or childbirth; the other, better way to die, is in battle. Fight to the finish, have fun and meet Odin in Valhalla. That’s why Thor’s hammer or his amulet are objects of such veneration in these tales. 
 
  
 
 Oh yes. You see, Loki is a trickster, a shape-shifter, a character who is hard to pin down exactly. Sometimes he helps the gods and sometimes acts in utterly capricious or malevolent ways. He’s also the father of Hel. I suppose it’s his ambiguity that makes him interesting.
 
  
 
 Definitely in the original context, but I’ve tried to make these tales more appealing to modern readers, who might find some parts of a straight translation confusing or find it hard to identify with certain things in the original Norse context, which is so far away in time.
 
  
 
 Oh, it all started with a chance meeting at a pub with Dave (McKean, who drew all the covers). The thing about freelancing and being young — we were both in our twenties — is you tend to have time to hang around in places where you expect to meet interesting people. We got talking and he asked, “What do you do?” And I said I write, and he said, “Well I’m an artist.” And then we started collaborating on Sandman. We never expected it to become the sensation it became.
 
  
 Well, initially, it was tough, I mean the only option was to go and hang around places where painters and artists did, go to exhibitions of relatively new painters. But these days, since I’ve become better known, it works both ways. I’m often approached by artists to collaborate with them. 
 For example, sometime ago, I wrote a book about a princess and a tiger set in India, called Cinnamon. I wanted an illustrator with Indian sensibilities and lo and behold, I discovered Divya Srinivasan who did a wonderful job.
 
  
 Oh, when I was doing Sandman, I would refer a lot to his Masks of God volumes. He is an utterly brilliant, original mind, and he spans so many cultures and their myths. But then I read about a third of his The Hero With A Thousand Faces, which is all about the Hero archetype, and I thought, “No, I’m not going to let his concepts overpower me. If I’m going to create heroes, I’ll create my own.” But of course, his knowledge, erudition and writing 
 is brilliant.
 
