CHENNAI: As the director of  ,   realised that in Chennai, not many people come into galleries to look at art work. And that's when he decided to launch an initiative that would take art to public spaces. On February 14, he will launch the ' ', an avenue where artists can showcase their work at a temporary venue on a monthly basis. 

 "The idea is to make sure that a lot of people get an opportunity to showcase their art work at various venues," says Senthil, adding that he wants to take works of art out of the four walls of a gallery to where the general public can view it.
 
 "People have a lot of misconception about art and galleries. The common man doesn't go see a gallery a a place where he can spend quality time with his family," says Senthil. The common notion is that they can't afford art or understand art, so it is not their cup of tea, he adds.
 
 The Wall of Celebration will be a mobile one that will come up at different parts of the city - in cafes, restaurants, and maybe later, in other public spaces. "Depending on the cafe and space availability, the wall will be put up in a place where it won't hamper or disturb the flow of the restaurant or space," he says, adding that while quite a few cafes and restaurants have agreed to be part of the initiative, he is also looking at other common public spaces such as parks and other exhibition spaces. "But that is yet to come through," adds Senthil.
 
 The first wall will be inaugurated at That Madras Place, a restaurant in Adyar on Valentine's Day. Aptly, the theme for the month will be 'Love'. "The venue, theme and art work will keep changing," says Senthil, adding that the works of art will be on display for two weeks. "Since we need a few days to collect, curate and display the works, each wall will come up in the middle of every month," he says. The exhibition will also be on display as long as the venue is open. The displayed artworks will also be available for sale.
 
 "Works are chosen on the basis of the merit of the art work," says Senthil. "Our focus is more on giving a platform for amateur and upcoming artists." Artists from anywhere in and outside the city are welcome to send their works, provided artists adhere to the theme and A3 size. "Any medium is allowed. Even photographers are welcome," says Senthil.
 
 For March onwards, artists can send in their entries with details of the art work, including a photograph of the work, the size, medium, title and the price to splatterstudio@gmail.com
 
 
