NAGPUR: The   announced an amnesty scheme, including 90% and 75% waiver of interest and penalty on payment of outstanding property tax from March 16 to March 31. The scheme was announced by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar at a press conference on Wednesday. Mayor  , standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare and assistant municipal commissioner Milind Meshram were also present in the conference. 

 “Against 5.31 lakh property owners, as many as 1.78 lakh defaulted on the property tax. The   have crossed Rs191 crore while the outstanding amount of the current demand is just Rs43 crore,” he said. 
 
 The decision was taken by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar by exercising his power vested under Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act. The one-time settlement or amnesty scheme will be implemented in two phases, Hardikar said and clarified that it will be implemented on the lines of amnesty scheme which the state government launched to recover dues of local body tax.
 
 Under the scheme, 100 % payment of property tax dues after March 16 till March 23 will get 90% waiver on penalty on interest amount. The waiver on penalty and interest will be given on outstanding amount accumulated up to the current fiscal, he said. Similarly, those who will pay the tax between March 24 and March 31 will get a benefit of 75% waiver of interest and penalty on full payment of dues. 
 
 The scheme will be applicable to all types of properties, including, residential and commercial. The waiver will be available for assesses who have not paid property tax till the current fiscal, said Hardikar.
 
 However, the amnesty scheme will not be implemented for those having court cases pending and those having illegal constructions. 
 
 “The scheme is being introduced in view of the huge backlog of dues over the years. Many tax payers including some government agencies expressed problem in paying the dues along with significant amount of interest and penalty,” he said.
 
 Hardikar admitted that the civic body’s shortcomings has led the cumulative arrears to pile up to Rs191 crore over the years. He clarified that there are multiple reasons including inefficiency of recovery, pending disputes over property tax cases and system flaws. 
 
 When asked about the new tax system, he said the   is committed to implement it from next financial year and said the demand notes will be generated by November this year. 
 
 To a query over the BJP’s earlier demand of scrapping of fines on property tax, the mayor said currently the ruling party will support the civic administration in this drive. She also stressed the need for imposing fines on defaulters or nobody will pay the taxes sincerely. 
 
 Meanwhile, with a view to recover outstanding property tax dues, the NMC has started the process to auction properties of 232 defaulters. 
 
