BENGALURU: A consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist with  ,   has added a feather to her cap, rather her coat. She’s become the first robotic surgeon in India to conduct nine complicated surgeries using robotics in a short span of 17 days. She’s broken the record set by a Coimbatore doctor who performed nine robotic surgeries in 33 days.

 Dr Lavanya, 38, trained at the Institute of  , a joint initiative of   launched in September 2016. Intuitive Surgical, the official partner of the da Vinci Surgical System, used for training doctors in robotic surgeries, declared her the first surgeon to have performed the maximum number of procedures in the shortest period.
 
 In five months, 10 trained surgeons completed 100 successful and subsidized robotic surgeries at Narayana Health. “The system helps us operate with accuracy and precision. Its magnification (10 times more powerful) and 360-degree end wrist movement helps us access unreachable places more easily. With barely any chances of complications, patients can go home after a short stay at the hospital,” said Dr Lavanya.
 
 Trained surgeons at Narayana Hrudayalaya have used robotics in gynaecological, gastro-intestinal, urological, oncological and paediatric procedures.
 
 Dr  , senior consultant gastrointestinal surgeon at Narayana Health, said: “From benign to malignant conditions – right from esophagus to the rectum — various procedures have been done using robotic surgery. The most challenging one was the Whipple’s Procedure, done in the upper abdomen.”
 
 Explaining the challenges of performing a robotic surgery on kids, Dr Sanjay Rao, head of the paediatric surgery department at Narayana Health, said: “Compared to the large robotic system, the child is very tiny, and operating on such patients become difficult. With advancements in technology, more instrumentation will be available to operate on smaller children.”
 
 The institute is currently training the in-house surgeons, of whom some have gone for a certification course. These doctors, with help from the Intuitive Surgical team, will train doctors from outside in a few days.
 
 
 
 
