ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Sunday rejected reports that an Indian woman married to a Pakistani man was being held hostage at the   building in  .

 Tahir Ali, a resident of Buner town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in the northwest, had lodged a complaint at Islamabad’s Secretariat police station to help him recover his Indian national wife, Uzma, who had gone into the Indian embassy but did not return.
 
 Local media, however, said that foreign office spokesperson Nafees Zakaria had rubbished reports that the woman was being held hostage inside the Indian High Commission building.
 
 Ali had met Uzma in Malaysia eight months ago where he was working as a taxi driver. Police said Uzma came to Pakistan on May 1 via   border and the two contracted a court marriage two days later in Buner.
 
 Later, Uzma called her brother in New Delhi and informed him that she had tied the knot. According to Ali, her brother asked her to visit India on honeymoon and told her that to contact a person named Adnan at the Indian embassy who would sort out their visas issue for the trip.
 
 In his complaint to the police, Ali alleged: “At the Indian embassy window she asked for Adnan. A while later, a man came out and took her inside through gate number six. I waited and waited, and then at 7pm, I asked the embassy staff at the gate if my wife was inside. They told me no one was inside.”
 
 “I then returned to the main gate on a shuttle bus,” he said, adding that none of the three phones surrendered to the embassy by them at the time of entrance were returned to him.
 
 When police contacted the Indian High Commission, the officials there said Uzma was in their office but refused to release her, saying that negotiations on the matter will be held through the foreign office. The foreign office said it was in contact with the Indian High Commission and the issue would be resolved soon.
 
 An Indian government source said the woman had sought help from the Indian mission on May 5. “The high commission is providing necessary consular assistance to the woman and is in touch with the Pakistan foreign office and her family in India,” he said.
 
 
