

 
 They are not ‘unemployable’ but they are ‘underemployed’. The industry says 60% of our graduates are not fully prepared. So they need further training, which means to start with these students may not get the same salary as compared to 40% of their peers. Instead of starting with a salary of Rs 4-5 lakh, they are not even getting Rs 1.5 lakh per annum.
 
 
 
 We have made   mandatory to fill the gap so that they become suitably employable. Each student is to undergo two summer internships with the industry of two months duration each. There are over 10,000 technical education institutions in the country. AICTE alone cannot monitor the implementation of the internships. We will ask the universities to make the internships mandatory and also to make provision for it in their academic calendar. Universities should also give grades or offer credits for the same, at least as qualifying.
 
 
 
 There has been some apprehension from the states. So we are waiting for the outcome of tests like NEET.
 
 
 
 The curricula of our engineering institutions have not been revised for quite some time. In next 10 to 15 days our new model curriculum will be announced. We will ask all states, universities and institutions to adopt that allowing some contextual changes if they feel necessary. A committee of professors of eminence and experts from industry will continue to work for the next five years.
 
 
 
 MTechcurriculum is also very poor. MTech graduate may opt to teach instead of joining the industry. In that case it adversely affects the engineering education. We are planning to change the curriculum next year, along with introducing industry internships.
 
 
 
 While we can’t paint all as bad, however, there are large number of private institutions with poor infrastructure and bad quality students. They don’t have well trained teachers as well. But parents and students are gradually rejecting them. And if they fail to fill 30% of the seats for five consecutive years they will have to close down.
 
 
 
 Not just yoga! It can be activities like sports, NCC and also yoga. If some institutions want to give credits as well they can go ahead. This has been done to change the outlook of students and sensitise them on the needs of the nation.
 
 
 
 As of date nothing has been finalized on HEERA. There are advantages of a single regulatory mechanism as there are lot of overlapping of mandate and discrepancies at present.
 
