All of us would have come across one trait of our moms’ which is as annoying as it is endearing. They can praise you to the skies, and tickle your funny bones with their witty one-liners but they can also embarrass you in many instances. But you love them all the more for it and smile it off. On Mother’s Day, we celebrate how loving, caring, protective and also quirky moms can be!

 
 
 
 
 
 When I was a kid, I remember, amma used to get her favourite kites and take me to the terrace every day at around 3 pm, to fly them. I used to wonder why she was dragging me out in the scorching heat. And when people asked us why we were doing this, she would say, 'molku venditta’ (it’s all for the child). Her love for kites was such that she used to even buy them during our trips. Once she picked one up from Hyderabad and it was so huge that it couldn’t be folded. So we were at the airport with the giant kite and people were staring at us. Again, she kept saying, 'molku venditta’. Once, I heard someone on TV referring to an ‘actress who once took around 15 kites from their place’. Luckily they weren’t able to recollect the name of the celebrity, and I thought, ‘thank god!’ It was because of her sheer love for kite flying that we kept the terrace of our house open for a long time.
 
 
 
 
 
 My amma has a cute trait which is also quite awkward - she bullies me in front of my friends! There are umpteen situations in which I was left totally embarrassed before friends and family, but I know it’s all done in good spirit. With childlike innocence, she turns into someone of my friends’ age group and she actually aces the art of bullying (laughs). One day, my mom and I went shopping, and at the parking area, we met my friends who were waiting for me there. They started conversing and the talking point was how I was never on time, and how they end up becoming ‘post’. My mother joined them and started pulling my leg, and then it was me vs all of them. Finally, I had to run away from there to make them stop! She is eccentric at times, yet very affable. It is her quirky side that makes our chemistry all the more different. My friends, who come over, are so comfortable talking to her, some of them even envy me.
 
 
 
 
 My mother was a teacher at my school, and when I was in UKG, our class teacher went for a week’s leave. We were told that amma would be coming as a substitute. The moment I got to know about this, I started acting all important in class. I kept telling everyone, ‘Amma varum teacher aayittu.’ As we had a new class leader each week, I was sure amma would make me the class leader that week and told everyone so.
 On Monday, amma and I went to school together. I stepped into my class and asked everyone to wait and watch. When the bell rang, she came into to the class. I immediately went up to her and asked her, ‘amme enne class leader aakkuo?’ She looked at me and told me to go to my seat. She made someone else the class leader that day, and I didn’t get any special attention that I dreamt about during that week. In fact, she treated me like any other kid in class. That somehow ended up being the worst week for me in school (laughs). After that day, I never wanted her to come teach our class again! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My mom is very particular about certain things, and she often ensures that I follow them as well. For example, she is very attentive to details about how you groom yourself and dress up. 
 I love growing a beard and trying out various styles. Once, I was quite happy with myself after having pulled off a new style of beard, and was looking forward to some compliments when I met my mother. But guess what she said, ‘Ninne kaanan picchakarane polundu.’ She always comes up with such funny statements that would make you laugh heartily, and you can’t resist falling for her love and care.
 
 
 
 
  The things that my mother does are super cute, and one of them is that every day she has to call me at least five to six times, for no particular reason. I run a clothing line here in Kochi, and even during hectic days she would continue with the calls. I would tell her I am busy but she would randomly call and ask me if I had lunch. After two hours, she would again call me. Her recurrent questions are ‘Where are you going? When will you be back? I know that in a sweet way, she misses me, but when I am really busy, I would say, ‘Mom, I am really busy, please don’t call me.’ But at the same time, if I don’t get her call once in two hours, I keep checking my phone. That is her way of showing her care and I love it.
 
 
