MYSURU: Tasked with the challenge to win the bypoll to   assembly segment, Chief minister   on Thursday held a brainstorming meetings with the party leaders to devise strategies, even as a section of netas pitched for public works minister H C   to take on BJP’s V Srinivass Prasad.

 The CM, however, was non-committal to fielding his trusted aide, and instead said he has taken feedback from the leaders. He indicated that the party will announce its candidate when the poll calendar is out. The Election Commission is expected to announce the details of the bypoll by next week.
 
 Siddaramaiah, who has been camping at his hometown for the past two days, held meetings with the leaders from Nanjangud. He met the leaders from gram panchayats to taluk panchayat and took their suggestions on the political strategy to be adopt to take on Prasad. The marathon meetings, which commenced in the afternoon, and went on till 5pm. Party observers L Hanumantaiah, Narayana Swamy and Nanjaiahmath and   committee chief B J Vijay Kumar were present.
 
 Emerging from the meeting, the CM told reporters that most local leaders have expressed their opinions about who should be fielded in the Nanjangud bypoll. “We will decide the candidate considering in their opinion,” he stated. 
 
 A senior party leader, who attended the meetings, said they favoured Mahadevappa to take on Prasad. “This was first time that Mahadevappa’s name was proposed before the CM,” the leader told TOI. Mahadevappa is a native of Hadinaaru in Nanjangud taluk, but has political links in neighbouring T Narsipur taluk. He has been elected to the assembly from T Narsipur for five times. As he is a close associate of the CM and has supporters in Nanjangud, a section of the party leaders favoured him to be made the party’s nominee. Mahadevappa has been touring Nanjangud constituency for the past two months, and launching development projects. He has given the taluk Rs 500 crore worth of projects.” Some leaders have also asked the minister’s son Sunil Bose to be fielded against Prasad, who crossed over to BJP earlier this week.
 
 Sources said the party is also trying to woo JDS leader  , who came runner up during the 2013 assembly polls after Prasad. 
 
 “We are planning to make him the candidate by getting him to the party, since he is a strong leader in the area,” they explained.
 
 
