TOI Sports brings to you all the updates from the Superstar Shake-up from   Live

 
 
 
 With the Intercontinental Championship moving to RAW with Dean Ambrose, Owens had to make the switch to Smackdown Live and he did that in style proclaiming Canada to be greater than America and drawing enough heat from the crowd. Baron Corbin interrupted Owens demanding a title match before Sami Zayn announced his arrival on the Blue Brand. AJ Styles got himself in the mix before Smackdown Live general manager Daniel Bryan made it clear that Owens will need to defend his US title against   in the at Payback in three weeks time and then only will the title officially become a part of the Blue Brand. Bryan however announced a triple threat match between Corbin, Zayn and Styles to determine the number one contender for the title.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Orton dominated the proceedings and set up Rowan for the RKO after the DDT off the second rope, but he was interrupted by a Bray Wyatt promo and that allowed Rowan to take the steel steps and ram into Orton thus disqualifying himself. Rowan then planted Orton in the middle of the ring.
 
 
 
 
 American Alpha had the early offensive but   soon found himself isolated with Jimmy and Jay doing well to keep Chad Gable in the other corner. But Jordan found the opening and Gable exploded in to the ring with two German suplexes on Jimmy, a exploder on Jay and had a near three-count with a moonsault. The pace picked up as the match neared its climax with The USOS attempting suicide dive through the middle rope only to be countered by a belly to belly by the American Alpha. Alpha's got the bulldog from the top rope but The USOS managed to survive and then proceeded to hit the frog splash after a blind tag to retain their titles.
 
 Epico and Primo announced their arrival from RAW to Smackdown Live attacking the American Alpha after the match.
 
 
 
 
 Mahal moved from RAW to Smackdown Live and he was faced with the man who eliminated him from the Andre The Giant Memorial Battle Royal - Mojo Rawley. New England Patriots Rob Gronkowski was present during the match and he threw beer at Mahal before Rawley finished off the match with a stiff straight elbow to the Indo-Canadian wrestler.
 
 Charlotte and   join Smackdown Live women's division. Rusev, Lana, Sin Cara and the New Day too announced as part of Smackdown Live roster
 
  
  
 
 
 
 English showcased his NXT persona of 'The Artiste' but he was not good enough for The Perfect 10 Tye Dillinger, who picked up the win with the Tye Breaker
 
 Triple Threat number one contender's match for US Championship: AJ Styles beat Baron Corbin and Sami Zayn via pinfall
 
 Sami Zayn and AJ Styles teamed up to take Corbin out of the equation but only momentarily as Corbin was in the thick of things taking on Zayn and Styles controlling the tempo of the match magnificently. Zayn floored Corbin with a clothesline but before attempting a Heelluva kick, he ate Ushigoroshi from Styles. Corbin came back with a strong lariat. As the match neared its conclusion Zayn was in his element with counters to Styles and Corbin and with a Helluva kick he put Corbin out of the equation, but Styles capitalised with a phenomenal forearm to pick up the victory and become number one contender for the US Championship.
  
  
 
