BENGALURU:   has a long association with India. It was here, in the winter of 2004, that he made his Test debut at the Eden Gardens. Since then, 7952 Test runs have come off his blade in 103 Test matches, but the hunger to perform hasn't diminished. A point he proved with his unbeaten 95-ball 104 against   last month. A copybook cricketer, the 33-year-old was ignored by the   franchises until   roped him in last season. But the man with monk-like serenity wasn't complaining.

 The South African spoke to 
  on enjoying the game, the road ahead and the upcoming Cricket South Africa T20 Global Destination League for which he is marquee player.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I enjoy playing cricket… If you enjoy something you can sustain it for a longer period of time. I also enjoy working on my game and get better each time. I believe you can never be complete as a cricketer and that's a challenge that motivates me to keep improving myself and that gives me great joy.
 
 
 
 I still feel very fresh. Although I have a lot of experience behind me and things are not as new as they used to be, I look forward to every series. The moment that joy fades away, it is time to look for other options. At the moment, I feel like 26-year-old and I'm enjoying my cricket as much as ever.
 
 
 
 In South Africa we have wonderful trainers. Everybody's body is different and has different needs so I try to be as mentally fresh as possible and do my cardio, training and gym workouts according to a plan.
 
 
 
 Different formats demand different methods, so you train differently. Test cricket is a lot more about discipline, The format dictates that you are a little more watchful and there is greater emphasis on technique.
 
 On the other hand, T20 cricket is a little different. You have to be a little unorthodox, you try and score off each ball and maximise on the skills you possess. It doesn't matter if you are playing seven different shots, if you find some stroke works for you, you score as many runs as you can with it.
 
 
 
 Test cricket is what appeals the most to you. It is probably the most tiring format. But at the moment I'm really enjoying it and I don't look too far at anything in life.
 
 
 
 It has been very exciting. Last year I played for a couple of weeks, this year I've been here for five weeks and I have really enjoyed it.
 
 
 
 It means we are finally get a chance to showcase the talent in South Africa. We have had T20 competitions before and they have been successful, so now it is about globalising it. Creating the international effect is very exciting. It will offer great opportunities to our domestic players to share the dressing room with international stars.
 
