BHOPAL: From   to caves of Europe — rocks art is set to tell a story through pictures at the ‘world of rock art’, an exhibition, which will be inaugurated on Friday at   (IGRMS), Bhopal.

 Kapil Tiwari, former director, Adivasi Lok Kala Parishad, Bhopal, will inaugurate the exhibition. 
 
 The exhibition is being organised by IGRMS Bhopal in collaboration with Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), New Delhi at Avritti Bhawan. The month-long exhibition will have over 120 photographs exhibited at the gallery.
 
 At a press conference organised by the IGRMS on Thursday, project director of Adi-drishya department,   director IGRMS presided over the workshop.
 
 Malla said rock art being first creativity of human beings, it has a huge significance in today’s world. The department, he said, would soon approach MHRD with a proposal to introduce rock art as a separate subject in school curriculum.
 
 “The prehistoric art comes to signify underlying philosophies and worldview of the ancient people and tells us about soul of the community, its thoughts, beliefs and emotions. These records with high maturity as estimated by scholars perhaps go back to 40,000 years. Our effort is to document and research them throughout the country,” he said.
 
 Talking to reporters, Prof Chaudhuri said: “The exhibition is in fact a part of IGRMS’s and IGNCA’s National Project on rock art which gives top priority on creating general awareness among school children, college and university students and general public about this first creative art of humankind.”
 
 He said rock art of the world is a fascinating saga of human endeavour to translate his aesthetic sensitivity into reality.
 
 In India, the state is one of the richest zones in rock art heritage. Rock art sites have been reported from as many as 28 districts of the state. Among these Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sagar, Mandsaur, Sehore and Bhopal account for the largest concentration of rock art sites.
 
 The important sites in the state are Bhimbetka group, Adamgarh-Pachmarhi group, Kathotia, Jaora, Firangi, Shyamla hills, Mahadeo, Chhibar Nala, Chaturbhuj Nala, Gandhi Sagar Dam and Nagauri.
 
 The inaugural ceremony will be followed by a student’s workshop on rock art titled ‘Impressions’. 
 
