NEW DELHI: The defence ministry and the   are examining a complaint lodged by a highly-decorated officer who has claimed that he was “systematically victimised” by top officers, including two former chiefs, for speaking up against a botched intelligence operation in   six years ago.

 Colonel Saurabh Singh Shekhawat, awarded the Kirti Chakra, Shaurya Chakra and Sena Medal for counterinsurgency operations in Manipur and climbing   thrice, has charged former chief Gen Bikram Singh, his successor Gen Dalbir Singh Suhag and present South   chief Lt-Gen Abhay Krishna with carrying out a “vindictive” campaign against him during their tenures.
 
 The botched raid on a contractor’s house in Jorhat, on the suspicion that he had links with ULFA, by the Dimapur-based 3 Corps’ intelligence and surveillance unit (CISU) in December 2011 had led to a huge controversy and factional feuds in the top rungs of the 1.3-million strong Army.
 
 The then Army chief Gen V K Singh, who is now minister of state for external affairs, had dubbed the operation “a dacoity” after allegations that soldiers had stolen cash, gold and mobile phones during the raid. He had repeatedly cited it to scuttle, albeit unsuccessfully, the Bikram-Suhag line of succession to the top post, as was reported by TOI. A “distressed and disillusioned” Col Shekhawat (45), in his “statutory complaint” filed in April, said he had been systematically victimised after he complained that the CISU operation was carried out without either informing the local police or his 21 Para-SF unit, which was then based at Jorhat, in violation of all procedures.
 
 “The complaint filed by Col Shekhawat (on study leave at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses) is being examined… it takes six to seven months in normal course. All military personnel have the right to file nonstatutory (dealt within the Army) and statutory (defence ministry) complaints for redressal of grievances about promotions, ACRs, postings and the like,” said an official.
 
 In December 2011, Bikram Singh was the Eastern Army Command chief, while Suhag was the 3 Corps commander with Lt-Gen Krishna as his brigadier general staff (operations).
 
 V K Singh, just before retiring as the chief in May 2012 after a messy battle with the then   government over his age, had even imposed a discipline and vigilance promotion ban on Suhag on the ground of “abdicating responsibility” in handling the operation.
 
 
