BENGALURU: German software behemoth   has elevated   as president of its HANA Enterprise Cloud, its private cloud offering that supports HANA applications, as also non-SAP ones.

 Khandelwal will also continue in his current role as the managing director of   responsible for development centres in Bengaluru, Gurugram and Pune with an employee base of 7,300 people. SAP Labs India is the firm’s largest research and development centre outside its headquarters in Germany and a part of a connected lab network of 19 Labs in 16 countries.
 
 Khandelwal elevation to a global role is testimony once again to the value Indian leaders bring in frontline technology. His predecessor in SAP Labs India, V R Ferose, became the senior vice president and head of globalization services at SAP.
 
 Khandewal will report to  , member of the executive board, in charge of products & innovation. “Dilip will have a global responsibility for the deployment of SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud and will oversee its adoption and customer success,” the company said in a statement.
 
 SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud delivers comprehensive cloud infrastructure and managed services for SAP’s in-memory applications, database, and platform. In the recent June quarter analysts’ call, SAP CEO Bill McDermott called out   as the fastest growing cloud ERP solution in the market and said SAP is growing new cloud bookings at triple digits. The quarter marked the 17th consecutive quarter of consistent rapid growth in the cloud for SAP. S/4HANA also connects enterprises to the internet of things and big data.
 
 Khandelwal said his focus would be to use “our unparalleled cloud expertise to drive the digital transformation of our customers.” Khandelwal has been with SAP for over 16 years and has held leadership positions across SAP’s technology and business portfolios. As managing director of SAP Labs India, he has been instrumental in driving innovation through the product lines and establishing SAP Labs India as a leading centre of innovation across SAP’s R&D ecosystem.
 
 
