CHENNAI: Vinyl advertisements could soon spruce up train coaches, with companies paying the country’s largest employer,  , via contractors, to promote their products and services.

 The move is part of recently drafted policy to increase the railways’ non-revenue tariff.
 
 The Indian Railways took took the decision to increase its poor non-tariff revenues and low ad income in particular — currently at less than 5% of its total income.
 
 “We are targeting advertising   and hope to increase it by more than four times the current amount through a liberalised advertising policy,” an official quoting the policy document said.
 
 With the new policy, the licensee can advertise by wrapping the train in vinyl exteriors that are in accordance with guidelines laid down by the Research Design Standards Organisation (RDSO), the railways R&D wing.
 
 The railways will allow vinyl wrapping on windows of air-conditioned coaches, provided that it allows visibility of at least 70%. The railways will not permit vinyl wrapping on non-AC coaches.
 
 Inside the coaches, it will allow the licensee to cover up to 250sqft in advertisements in locations specified by the railways so as not to compromise safety of passengers.
 
 The railways has indicated that it will assess potential advertisements based on aesthetics and technical considerations.
 
 It will offer the advertising as a package on   like Rajdhani, Shatabdi, DEMU and MEMU trains, Garib Rath and suburban trains in Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata, officials said.
 
 The railways has released a centralised policy to offer advertising assets at new locations that it has yet to identify. It will bunch these with existing sites in railway stations so as to offer package deals, the policy document states.
 
 Another policy the railways has unveiled involves the consideration of unsolicited proposals from agencies with ideas to tap the non-fare revenues — for instance in areas such as short-term land licensing in which the railways does not have a clear policy.
 
 The agencies, classified as “proponents”, will have to approach the railways with detailed plans for implementation with technical specifications and the technology as well as financial analyses.
 
 
