BENGALURU: Only 2% of the nearly one lakh children born with primary immunodeficiency diseases (PID) every year get the right treatment. Merely 5% get diagnosed at the right time, say doctors.

  accounts for more than half the number of children with PID, with each specialist seeing at least 20 patients a year. This is because genetic anomalies mostly occur due to consanguine marriages, which are more common in the southern states, said doctors participating in a three-day international symposium. The 4th International Conference on Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases concluded on Monday. 
 
 Doctors blame the lack of awareness about the disease, among both patients and the medical fraternity, and late detection for the alarming number of child mortality cases in the country.
 
 “Most immunodeficiency disorders have common symptoms like fever, skin rashes, inadequate body weight and diarrhoea; there are no peculiar symptoms for PID. This is what makes diagnosis difficult, especially if the physician doesn’t have thorough knowledge about the ailment and its different forms,” said Dr  , senior consultant and head of paediatric haematology, oncology, clinical immunology and bone marrow transplant at  .
 
 “Also, parents of the ailing child should seek medical help as soon as possible. Even symptoms like fever or mild skin rashes shouldn’t be ignored as they can be indicative of a major anomaly like PID. Due to ignorance among doctors and patients, PID cases are under reported or not reported at all. Unfortunately, there is no authorized body to keep record of the cases,” he added.
 
 Procedures have advanced over the years
 
 While treatment procedures for PID in India were not up to the mark in the past, things have improved in the past five years. “Earlier we had to send samples to foreign laboratories and wait for the reports. Now, 90% of the genetic screening is done here. There are two ways of treating the ailment – intravenous immunoglobulin where a sterilized solution made of human plasma containing essential antibodies is supplied to the patient and bone marrow transplant. Doctors are using modern technology to strengthen the curing process,” Dr Bhat said.
 
 He added: “With better facilites, we have also begun prenatal screening, which enables doctors to detect the ailment early. Now we are able to diagnose and treat more number of patients.”
 
 The medical fraternity is doing all it can to address the problems faced by such patients. Dr  , president, Indian Society for Primary Immune Deficiency Diseases, said: “In 2010, when our society was established, there were no clinical set-ups or proper treatment methods followed in the country. However, over the last few years, we have spread awareness about PID.”
 
 The society conducts conferences and continuing medical education (CME) programmes every year to train doctors in private and government hospitals. “We organize diagnostic training workshops at centres in Mumbai and Chandigarh. Also, two centres of excellence have done advanced research on the disease,” Dr Madkaikar added.
 
 Karnataka to get paediatric haematology oncology society
 
 In the next two months, the state will have its own paediatric haematology society. The idea is to give all doctors a common platform for research and innovations in treatment. The society will audit and record the state’s data on each paediatric haematology and oncology case.
 
