BHUBANESWAR: A woman, who has been claiming to be the wife of BJD's Talcher legislator  , ransacked his official residence in   Colony here on Wednesday. The 30-year-old woman said she was aggrieved following the MLA's denial of her prolonged claim that the two were married. 

 "I had lodged a complaint against him at the Mahila police station. But police did not register any case. I have been trying to meet him, but he kept avoiding me. I was very angry," said the woman, a librarian in a private hospital at Banki near Khurda. 
 
 Pradhan was not present in his quarters when she vandalized flower vessels and smashed the chairs. His supporters stopped her and informed the police. Kharvela Nagar police officials took her to the police station and released her as Pradhan refused to lodge any complaint. "I do not know her, nor do I want to lodge any complaint. I am still a bachelor. She might have been planted by my political rivals," Pradhan said. 
 
 On February 13, she lodged a complaint against Pradhan, at Mahila police station and demanded social recognition as his wife. "I wrote in my FIR that he married me at the Jagannath Temple in Puri on April 5, 2015. After developing marital relationship with me, he disowned me in July 2016. He assaulted me and threatened me of dire consequences when I last met him at his residence in Bhubaneswar on January 4 this year," she said. "I was shocked when police said the charges against him were not cognizable. Police shielded him as he is a ruling party MLA," she added. 
 
 "We could not register case as the allegation against the MLA as it was non-cognizable in nature. Police never register cases under non-cognizable charges. She alleged Pradhan developed physical relationship with her after marriage. This allegation falls under section 493(cohabitation by a man by deceitfully inducing a belief of marriage) of IPC, which is a non-cognizable offence," said DCP Satyabrata Bhoi. 
 
 "We started investigation after maintaining a station diary. We also recorded statements of the MLA and the woman. The MLA denied having married her. She failed to substantiate her claim of marriage," Bhoi said. 
 
 
