PATNA: Police on Tuesday resorted to lathicharge to disperse the crowd of contractual employees of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), who had blocked the Bailey Road and locked the hospital’s main gate demanding their three months’ salary. However, sources said the police got desperate to clear the blockade because of some VIP movement in the area and used brutal force on more than 640 nurses, ward boys, technicians, hospital attendants and sweepers employed with   on contract.

 The employees claimed they had not got salary for last three months. They did not allow vehicles, patients and even any ambulance to enter the hospital premises for almost three hours in protest. 
 
 Shastri Nagar SHO Neehar Bhushan said the protesters had turned unruly and had to be controlled. “It took us 40 minutes to disperse the crowd and open the hospital main gate. The protesters were not letting anybody in, including ambulances, visitors or patients who were brought to the hospital in serious conditions,” he said.
 
 One of the hospital attendants, Ramji Kumar, said, “We were initially hired by a private agency, Frontline Pvt Ltd, for the hospital two years back. We had paid Rs500 each to the company at the time of our interview. At present, we are working under M4 Solutions Pvt Ltd. While Frontline was to pay salary for two months, the new company had to clear our dues of the last month. They had assured us to pay our salaries by August 25. When they failed to pay us even after one month of their deadline, we staged a protest.” 
 
 Ramji said he was the sole bread earner of the family with a young brother and four sisters along with his old father.
 
 Vikas Singh, a nursing staff employed at IGIMS, said his monthly salary is Rs13,700, which has been due for the past three months. “We had no other option but to stage a protest. We were supposed to receive salary by August 15 as per the norm. But then the agency said they would pay all the dues by August 25,” he said.
 
 IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas said the protesters’ demands had been met. “We had released the salary to the agency, which will make the payment to all the contract employees by Wednesday.” 
 
 
