BAREILLY: A large number of students who failed to   forms on time staged a protest along with   (ABVP) leaders on   (MJP)   campus on Monday. However, when officials closed the main door of the academic block, the student leaders reacted by closing all other four gates of the varsity.
 
  The matter was settled after university allowed entry of student leaders by opening the academic block gate. Officials said more time will be given to students to fill their exam forms. The last day for filling the forms was Saturday.
  
  The students’ protest on university campus continued for an hour after which varsity officials summoned the cops. On reaching the campus, policemen found that they could not enter as ABVP supporters had closed the gates.
  
  The university authorities then opened the gate of the administrative block and allowed five students affiliated to ABVP to meet them. Once they were allowed in, the others reopened the four gates. “We demanded university authorities to give five more days to students to fill forms,” said  , city organizational secretary of ABVP.
  
  Due to technical glitches in the server of the university, many students enrolled on campus and affiliated colleges failed to fill online exam forms. However, as the last date of filling the exam form was over, students feared that they would lose a complete academic year if they were not allowed to write their exams. Though university is determining the total number of students who are yet to fill forms, sources said there are thousands of such students.
  
  Registrar SL Maurya said, “I have asked all affiliated colleges to provide the number of students who could not fill exam forms. Once we get the data, we will give more time to students. We do not want their academic year to be wasted.”
  
  A student, Suraj Kumar, said, “I had tried to fill the form last week but could not do it as there was a technical problem with the server. When I again went to a cyber cafe to fill form on Saturday, I still could not do so due to the same reason. It is not my fault and university should give us another opportunity.”
