NEW DELHI: Bad news continues to come by the bagful for  , with a rout in urban body polls in Maharashtra deepening the perception of a worsening decline set in by the   whitewash of 2014.

 In the BMC, Congress was swatted by a resilient Shiv Sena and a resurgent  , allies who parted ways to capture the ruling and opposition space in voters mindspace.
 
 Post-results, the saffron outfits are likely to join hands to form the local government, with a demoralised Congress as opposition. The pathetic show in the state capital was part of Congress's no-show in other urban centres like Pune, Nashik and Thane. Coming after a dispiriting performance in panchayat polls in Odisha, the Maharashtra results are part of a pattern of decline that started with the 2014 defeat. Since being evicted from power in Delhi, Congress has lost states like Maharashtra, Haryana, Kerala, Assam, J&K and Jharkhand. It also failed to put up a decent tally in panchayat and municipal polls over two years. Amid the gloom, the sole redeeming feature for the party was Bihar, where it was a minor partner in the winning coalition headlined by JD(U) and RJD in the 2015 elections. In this bleak backdrop, March 11, counting day for five assembly polls, has assumed disproportionate importance for Congress.
 
 A good show can, in a day, erase the debilitating perception of a terminal decline.But a bad outcome will only hasten its fall towards rock bottom. Threatening to turn into a torrent, more bad news is likely to pile pressure on vice-president   to revisit his parliamentary strategy of confrontation on demonetisation and GST, resulting in possible relief for the Modi regime. It will also reduce the scope for bold gambits he may have planned to rejuvenate the organisation. While being mauled by BJP, Congress will be beset with a new challenge about tackling an aspirational newbie in AAP. Traditionally, a prolonged dip in a party's political fortunes encourages an exodus of leaders to greener pastures. It will form a sorry stage for Rahul's elevation as Congress president, likely towards 2017-end. As Maharashtra paints the worst possible scenario for post-2014 Congress, it is hoping for relief on March 11 when votes are counted for UP,  , Punjab, Mizoram and Goa.
 
