NAGPUR: Union minister for road transport and highways   said mining major   will be setting up nation’s first LCD panel manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs 18,000 crore and provide jobs to 10,000 at Butibori.

 Addressing an election meeting for Ward 13 and 15 on Friday, Gadkari said Vedanta chairman Anil Agrawal was a friend of his. “When I met Agrawal in a programme, I told him he could be my friend only if he set up his LCD manufacturing plant in Nagpur. Some 10,000 people will get jobs in the plant. My target is to provide employment to 50,000 of which 9,070 jobs are already there,” he said.
 
 Revealing projects worth Rs 20,800 crore sanctioned by him for the district, Gadkari said, “Earlier people from Nagpur used to wish to reside in Mumbai and Pune. Students from Nagpur used to go to Mumbai or Pune for education. Now, people from Mumbai and Pune are thinking of coming to Nagpur,” he said, adding Symbiosis University was also setting up campus in the city.
 
 Taking a jibe at Congress, Gadkari said BJP gave tickets to true workers and not family members. “Every candidate of Congress is family member of some leader. BJP gives ticket to family member of a leader only when there is popular demand for a particular person,” he said.
 
 Gadkari urged the people to cast vote and ensure at least 75% voting in the city. “People should give us over 100 seats to ensure city’s development,” he said.
 
 MLC Parinay Fuke explained his wife Parineeta accepted ticket from Ward No 13 only due to demand from the people. “People should elect all four candidates of BJP to ensure planned development of the ward,” he said.
 
 Gadkari addressed nine more meetings on Friday. He commenced campaign from Ward No 37 from where his close aide Dilip Diwe is contesting. He addressed Sitabuldi shopkeepers at a convention in Buty Mall followed by public meetings at Kadbi square, Police Line Takli, Kapil Nagar square, Jaripatka, Vaishali Nagar, Shanti Nagar and Bhandewadi covering South-West, West, Central, East and   constituencies.
 
 It was Gadkari’s second day of campaigning in city, the first being February 11. He will also address meetings on Saturday and Sunday, the last day of campaign.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis continued public meetings in city for second consecutive day. He addressed five meetings beginning at   followed by Chhota Tajbagh, Ayodhya Nagar, KDK College and Bangladesh. He is likely to leave to campaign in other parts of the state on Saturday.
 
