MUMBAI: Shiv Sena worker  , accused in the Ghatkopar   crash, had found himself on the wrong side of the law in the past over a   lounge. He was served notices by the  ,   as well as the   (SCI), all of which stated that the 1,200-square-foot ground-plus-one structure was illegal.

 TOI has got a copy of the BMC notice served to Shitap eight years ago, in 2009, under Section 351 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act for alleged illegal construction of Rumours Lounge that faces Powai lake. Section 351 is invoked when an unauthorized structure is constructed contrary to approvals.
 
 “The entire structure is illegal and therefore a notice was served to Shitap under the MMC Act. However, Shitap was quick to move the city civil court and bring a stay in the matter,” said Santosh Kumar Dhonde, assistant municipal commissioner, S ward. Following the stay, there has been a status quo in the matter. However, now it is very likely that the BMC might seek a fresh date and the case may be accelerated.
 
 In 2015, Mhada, too, had served Shitap a notice stating that the land on which the lounge stood belonged to the body and that Shitap had illegally encroached on it. In 2015 again and in 2016, the Shipping Corporation of India filed a complaint with BMC, asking it to take action as the establishment, which was earlier named Rude Lounge, is on the PSU’s boundary wall. In its complaint, SCI stated that the PSU imparts training to cadets to become merchant navy officers and contributes to the country’s development. No bar is allowed to come up within 75 meters of its boundary, and therefore the “illegal construction” on the SCI wall should be immediately removed, it stated.
 
 Meanwhile, in April 2017, Shitap and his men allegedly tried to usurp a 2,500-square-foot recreation ground in Ghatkopar. Timely intervention by the public and former corporator Praveen Cheddah from Ghatkopar prevented it. An inquiry was initiated and the ward officer was suspended for conniving with Shitap to usurp the plot. Sources said Shitap’s modus operandi allegedly included encroaching on a property, manipulating its documents and then paying a fine and greasing palms to get the plot regularized.
 
 Sources said Shitap started out as a cable operator and then began to encroach on government plots before contesting for the corporation election.
 
