NAGPUR: SSC students heaved a sigh of relief after appearing for mathematics (algebra) exam on Tuesday.

 Purushottam Panchbhai, president of  , said that the paper was very good as well as easy. “Questions were familiar and mostly from the textbook. Only one question was from out of syllabus, but it was nothing unusual for those who had prepared well,” he said.
 
 “I spoke to many of my students and they too had the same opinion. Timing was sufficient for the paper. After all, it depends on the solving speed and practice of each student. I think now this paper will give confidence to the students for the next maths (geometry) paper,” he added.
 
 Coming out of the examination centre, student   said that this was his best paper till now. “I did not expect this kind of a paper, especially as it was maths. I mean maths is considered a monster, but it was not that bad fortunately. As I saw the paper in the examination hall, one thing that came to my mind was at least most of the questions were relevant and easy,” he said.
 
 Another student Pratham had the same view as he found the paper straightforward and easy. “I was able to write well. I am really feeling relieved now. Also, now I can prepare maths-II with a fresh and focused mind,” he said.
 
 Shivangi Deshpande said, “There were routine questions which were taught in the class. I prepared from the textbook itself and the most of the questions were related to it only. There was some difficulty because it’s board exam and this is what I expect from it.”
 
 However, Ashvini Nagpal had an average experience with the paper. She said, “It was a scoring paper, but mine was an average one due to less practice. Otherwise, it was a good paper overall. Especially, the short questions were extremely easy and I solved all of them. A few long questions created problems for me as I could not remember some of the steps in between.”
 
  said that as his practice was very good, so was the paper. Expecting to get good marks, he said, “I am satisfied with the paper but a bit worried about the next one because everything depends on geometry now. I just hope maths-2 will be like algebra,” he added.
 
 Analysis
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Relevance: Straightforward
 
 Paper length: Proper
 
