LUCKNOW: An assistant   officer posted at Lucknow was arrested by anti-terrorist squad of UP police on Wednesday morning. The officer -- Sudhakar Rastogi -- was accused of conniving with   to prepare fake passports, particularly for those aspiring to fly to   in search of  , said police. Rastogi had also contested election for the post of treasurer of Lucknow Golf Club last month but lost. In his late 50s, Rastogi is due to retire soon.

 The arrest came as follow-up action of the crackdown on March 27 against six touts who were arrested for forging documents to help passport applicants. During probes,   found the group of six colluded with some passport staffers to get ECNR (Emigration Check Not Required) stamp on 8 to 10 passports without proper background check on a daily basis. 
 
 Team working on the case identified 73 passport holders who used fraudulent documents to get passport or stamp. Under the Emigration Act, 1983, people travelling to 18 countries (mostly Gulf countries) need to get ECNR stamp on passport. The provision was made to prevent illegal trafficking of illiterates and to protect interest of Indians who start working abroad.
 
 To obtain ECNR, holding a PAN card, paying income tax and minimum education of up to X standard is necessary. Grilling the six, identified as Kulvinder Singh, Maroof, Javed Naqvi, Arman Khan, Faisal and Shoaib Ansari, sleuths from ATS named Rastogi and two other staffers.
 
 Since Rastogi headed the process, ATS on Wednesday nabbed him from his residence in Aishbagh. Inspector general of ATS Asim Arun said enough evidence had been gathered against Rastogi and he will be prosecuted for misusing his authority.
 
 The team working on the case had seized laptops and mobile phones of the accused persons. While examining the recovered devices, ATS found three audio clips in which Rastogi was reportedly heard demanding Rs 5,000 for each ECNR stamp. In a day, Rastogi used to generate about Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 from the touts.
 
 Old-timers at the club denied to comment on the matter. “He was quite helpful to those seeking passports. We never thought he could have been involved in something wrong. He also plays golf and has remained associated with the club for over a decade,” said a member.
 
