CHENNAI: For the first time since   took over the party in 1989, 50   will be in rival groups when Parliament meets on March 9 for the  . During the Parliament break after the budget was presented the party split into the factions led by   and former chief minister  .

 Expelled from the party for her sensational allegation that she was slapped by the party “leadership“, Rajya Sabha member Sasikala Pushpa will function on her own. Twelve members led by Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan back OPS, while 37 members led by Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai support Sasikala.
 
 On Friday, Sasikala's nephew and party deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran convened a meeting of his MPs to discuss floor strategy and the topics to be raised in Parliament. Mai treyan told TOI that the OPS faction discussed its plan on Thursday night. “We have decided not to heed to Thambidurai,“ said Maitreyan.
 
 With chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami mending bridges with the Narendra Modi government, it would be interesting to see how the two groups cosy up to the Centre. For BJP, it would be a delicate balanc ing act, trying to garner support of both factions, crucial in the Rajya Sabha. “There is no faction within AIADMK.All are working only under party general secretary Sasikala and deputy general secretary ,“ Thambidurai told reporters at Coimbatore airport. With the OPS group set to strike a discordant note, defying Thambidurai, the party leadership may seek their disqualification under the anti-defection law.
 
 Before she was convicted in the disproportionate assets case and jailed, Sasikala expelled the 12 rebel MPs from the party's primary membership. “We are the AIADMK and all party MPs will work together according to Panneerselvam's directions. We will take decisions about whether to support NDA government or not depending on the issues and keeping in mind the interest and welfare of the state,“ Maitreyan said.
 
 A similar situation prevailed in December 1989, after founder MGR's death, when AIADMK split between Jayalalithaa and his wife Janaki. “Then the party had only 11 LS members. Now, we have 37. Most MPs don't get along with Thambidurai. We are hoping more will join us soon,“ said an OPS group leader.
 
