A grand homecoming was organized by friends, family and local residents for   girl  , who recently won   title at fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017 contest. 

  Anukriti, a model and television host and presenter has several titles to her credit. She won Miss India Delhi 2013,she made a comeback in 2017 when she won   and she represented her home state   among top 30 finalists under the new format of fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017, she is crowned as fbb Femina Miss Grand india 2017 and will represent India at Miss Grand International 2017 which will be held in Vietnam.
 
  
  Miss Grand India at fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017, Uttarakhand’s Anukriti Gusain poses as she receives a warm welcome in Doon (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Anukriti was overwhelmed to see so many people waiting for her at the Doon airport. She said, "The moment I stepped out of the airport, children from Rishikesh started chanting mantras and young girls and women dressed in traditional Garhwali clothes welcomed me. I was touched by this grand gesture."
 
  
  Dr KK Raina, vice chancellor,   felicitating Anukriti (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
  
 
 
 
 Anukriti, who hails from   and has done her graduation from Doon’s DIT University in Computer Science and Engineering, visited her alma mater to celebrate her homecoming. The university had organised a cultural programme to felicitate her. Recalling her college days, Anukriti said, "I am overwhelmed to be back to my university. I was a tomboy when I was in college. I was quite good at academics; I topped the Board exams. I even topped the college for two successive years. Initially, I was not sure if I would be able to juggle academics and modelling, but thankfully, my teachers were quite supportive."
 
  
  Selfie with the alumna
  
 
 
 
 A special function was also organized at the Nagar Nigam Townhall where people from across the city came in large numbers to welcome her. Anukriti walked the ramp with small kids during the event. While interacting with the audience, the beauty queen said, "At fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017, for one of the rounds we were asked to wear a dress inspired by our respective states. I was slightly confused about what to wear but after I met Harak Singh Rawat ji (forest and wildlife minister), he suggested that I should wear a dress inspired by the Ganga, which truly represents Uttarakhand. I feel the blessings of Ganga have helped me in achieving all of this."
  -- Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
