NAGPUR: When Sharif (name changed) saw his father (Sheikh) walking towards him with a huge smile, hale and hearty, he ran towards him, hugged and cried. His tears didn’t stop for the next half an hour. He just couldn’t believe that the father he had abandoned at the   (GMCH) to die of   was looking fresh and ready to face the inevitable. It made Sharif more apologetic when his father forgave him for his sin of abandoning him.

 Sheikh is not the sole example of the empathy, compassion and care that is meted out to every person admitted at  , city’s only hospice. Every patient, including Sheikh, admitted here knows that one day they have to die but the way the hospice make them physically, emotionally and psychologically ready for the death is something which is more than just commendable.
 
 “We are happy to unite Sharif’s father with his family in his last days. This will help him to lead peaceful life and pain-free death. This gives us an immense satisfaction of serving the needy. But it doesn’t trigger a feeling of self-importance or favour. And that is why we have managed to serve people for the last 10 years and wish to continue it forever,” said Milind Badge, one of three persons who established the hospice in 2006. The other two are Jimmy Rana and Navin Deshpande. 
 
 Since 2006, Snehaanchal offers palliative care to not just cancer patients but patients with any life-limiting diseases or conditions. Snehaanchal, which runs in technical collaboration with RST Regional Cancer Hospital at present, has 17 beds with trained nurses and nuns to take care of the patients along with a team of doctors, including Dr Mona Rai, Dr Rohini Patil, Dr Krishna Kamble (a visiting consultant from GMCH) and Sapna Kale, in charge of PR, advocacy and awareness.
 
 This dedicated team is planning an expansion of the centre soon. The expansion includes a nursing school, nurses’ quarters, conference hall and bigger cubicles for patients. This will bring down the bed strength from 17 to 14 but it will give more space to the caregivers and the patients.
 
 “There is no hierarchy here. Everyone is a volunteer here. We are planning to make the place more spacious and comfortable for the patients. We believe that everyone has a right to a dignified death. And since the biggest issue with patients coming here is the terrific pain associated with the treatment, we try our best to let each patient become completely pain free,” Sapna Kale said.
 
 Dr Mona Rai says Snehaanchal doesn’t provide any active treatment per se, but it does provide care. “Cure has its own limitations but there is no limit for care, compassion, empathy that all of us can give to each patient. The trauma of death lingers on for much more time in these patients than normal death. Hence, we need to address and respect the autonomy of the person as well as his family relationships. Everyone deserves a peaceful and dignified death. We only facilitate this process,” said Dr Rai.
 
 Giving example of an oral cancer patient who had to move from one house to another on rent before being thrown on the road due to the myths associated with cancer and the foul smell that came from his mouth, Dr Rai said that this   at Snehaanchal when we could rope in people who were ready to sponsor his children’s education.
 
 Such incidents, says Milind Badge, motivate the Snehaanchal team to further up their dedication. He says Rana and Deshpande want support from society to not just expand Snehaanchal but open many more such centres in Central India.
 
 
