GUWAHATI: Defying a Supreme Court ban, traditional   went on unchecked at Ahatguri in Morigaon district of Assam on Sunday, the first day of Magh. Though committees that would officially organize these fights earlier stayed away, owners and keepers of buffaloes could not resist the temptation of making a quick buck.

 Buffalo fights were also held across Morigaon and adjoining Nagaon district. Many of the fights were low-profile events, little advertised lest they invited the ire of the administration. However, the charged atmosphere at Ahatguri was proof of the enthusiasm of the spectators.
 
 An organizer of the fight at Ahatguri pegged the audience over 10,000. The organizer, who did not wish to be named, said at least 15 pairs of buffaloes were played off against each other.
 
 “We cannot do away with the tradition overnight. In fact, buffalo fights are an integral part of our life as agriculturists. Through these fights, we let the bulls release their pent-up energy. If we do not let these bulls fight, we cannot use them for ploughing,” he said.
 
 The Supreme Court, while hearing the case of the   (AWBI) vs A Nagaraja and others in 2014, had passed an order banning all animal races and fights in the country and had asked both the AWBI and the Centre to prevent the infliction of pain on animals and birds.
 
 The AWBI in 2015 had written to the Assam government seeking an end to animal and bird fights that were part of Bihu celebrations across the state. Since then, the state government, through the district administrations, has clamped down on such fights during the festive season.
 
 Pranabjyoti Das, secretary of the committee which would organize the biggest buffalo fight at Ahatguri before the ban, said all fights held on Sunday were unofficial. “We were not involved in any such event this year. These were held at the individual level, by owners or keepers of buffalo bulls,” he said.
 
 A district administration official conceded that it had been difficult to implement the ban on traditional practices. “We did not allow any buffalo fights this year; we will check if any such fight was held without our permission,” he added.
 
 The 16th-century Hayagriva Madhava temple at Hajo, about 55 km from here, abstained from organizing the traditional bulbul fights on   for the third consecutive year.
 
 
