PATNA: Vehicles, including some brand new SUVs, buses, trucks and motorcycles seized from liquor smugglers would now be put up for auction.

 Sources said some of these vehicles, which were purchased for the sole purpose of smuggling liquor, may also be used by various government departments. 
 
 A police officer said at least 2,000 vehicles would become the property of state government after their confiscation, the process for which is already underway in various districts. “Proposals to confiscate 1,281 seized vehicles, including 640 vehicles from 11 districts under Patna zone, have already been sent to district magistrates concerned,” he added. 
 
 “The exact number of vehicles which will be put up for auction will become clear soon. It was after CM Nitish Kumar’s direction on May 10 that the process for compilation of records started in districts,” the officer added.
 
 Section 48 of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act states that any animal, vessel, cart or other vehicle and any premises used in the commission of an offence under the prohibition law, is liable to confiscation. It would be the onus of the owner to satisfy the court that the offence was committed without his or her knowledge.
 
 Sources said district magistrates have been asked to confiscate vehicles within 30 days of receiving proposal. Several such vehicles have also been seized in Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Bhaglapur zones.
 
 Patna zonal IG   said the move would act as a deterrent to large scale liquor smuggling. “Police have seized 156 vehicles used for liquor smuggling in Kaimur district alone,” Hussain said, adding a meeting was recently held with Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor to discuss the issue.
 
 Other than vehicles, process for confiscation of properties in Patna, including Sai Emergency Hospital at Jakkanpur, Amrapali banquet hall at  , house of a retired supply inspector and a plot at Jagdishpur, has also begun.
 
 Meanwhile, excise officials have sent a proposal to officials concerned to confiscate 404 two-wheelers, 32 three-wheelers, 203 cars and SUVs and a bus, which were used for liquor smuggling.
 
 In addition, proposals for confiscation of 61 immovable properties, including six buildings, have also been sent to the officials concerned.
 
