BENGALURU: The gunshots that claimed the life of an advocate in the presence of his friend in January were fired by the latter’s husband, according to the chargesheet filed by Soladevanahalli police. 

 Rajesh Gopalakrishna had opened two rounds of fire at Amith Keshavamurthy, 33, when the latter was sitting in his friend Shruthi Gowda’s car on January 13, off Hesaraghatta Main Road. Shruthi, a panchayat development officer, drove a bleeding Amith to a nearby hospital, checked into a lodge across the road and hanged herself.
 
 Hours later, Rajesh and his father, Gopalakrishna, 78, turned up at Soladevanahalli police station, claiming they had shot Amith dead. Police arrested both of them before resuming investigation.
 
 The chargesheet, submitted to the sessions court on Tuesday, names Rajesh as the murderer. Gopalakrishna has been booked for abetment to a crime which he could have prevented. The chargesheet runs into about 500 pages and records the statements of 48 witnesses, including Rajesh’s driver Kumar, who according to police is the only eyewitness to the crime. Documentary evidence includes CCTV footage taken from the hospital and lodge and written statements by the hospital staff, hotel staff and public. Statements from relatives and friends of both families are also mentioned, sources said.
 
 Amith and Shruthi had met at a family get-together and friendship blossomed between the two on Facebook. Shruthi, a motorcycle fan, had posted many comments on Amith’s pictures showing him riding. But Rajesh was against the friendship. This led to many arguments between the couple, but Shruthi denied having an affair with Amith. Rajesh and Shruthi’s families met to resolve their differences. Rajesh, however, didn’t believe Shruthi when she said she wouldn’t meet Amith. Shruthi was a mother of two daughters and Amith father of a son.
 
 Quoting Rajesh’s statement from the chargesheet, sources said he had fitted a GPS device in Shruthi’s car and on the fateful day, had followed her vehicle in his Toyota Innova. “She left home saying she was going to attend a meeting at the gram panchayat office in Railway Gollahalli. Fifteen minutes later, the GPS showed she was driving towards Madanayakanahalli Junction, which is in the opposite direction,” Rajesh said explaining how he was on Shruthi’s trail.
 
 THE CRIME: TOTAL RECALL 
 
 It was Sankranthi eve. Around 1pm, Shruthi told Rajesh she had a meeting and left home in her white Maruti Swift. She was unaware that Rajesh, suspecting her fidelity, had installed a GPS device in the car.
 
 Soon, Rajesh found out Shruthi’s car was heading elsewhere on Soladevanahalli Road. Calling his driver Kumar, he decided to follow her. Unaware of what was on Rajesh’s mind, his father Gopalakrishna decided to accompany him as he had to purchase pooja items for the festival.
 
 Around 2.30 pm, Rajesh tracked the location of Shruthi’s car and directed Kumar to head towards Acharya College. Fifteen minutes later, he noticed the car parked near the college compound and directed Kumar to park his Innova behind the vehicle. Trembling with rage, Rajesh jumped out and rushed towards his wife’s car. Seeing Amith sitting next to his wife and Shruthi holding a chocolate, Rajesh pulled out his revolver and fired at Amith. 
 
 Shruthi drove Amith to Sapthagiri Hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Then she rushed out, got into her car and drove to a lodge. She checked into a room, locked herself in, called her family and told them she was in great trouble. The family arrived only to see Shruthi hanging from the ceiling.
 
 The evidence: Fingerprint, powder marks 
 
 Amith Keshavamurthy was shot inside the car. The fingerprint marks on the .32 pistol matched with Rajesh’s right fingers. Powder marks were obtained from Rajesh’s palm. Based on such scientific evidence, police established that it was Rajesh who had fired at Amith. Ballistic and fingerprint experts confirmed Rajesh opened fire.
 
 The other prominent evidence was Shruthi’s younger brother Keerthi Gowda’s statement. Keerthi was the one she has called before hanging herself. Shruthi told Keerthi that Rajesh shot dead Amith and she could not live with humiliation as society would blame her for the murder.
 
 
