Gurgaon: A protest against   in Gurgaon’s private schools turned ugly on Sunday morning when police charged at   marching together with lathis and beat up some of them for refusing to turn back. 

 Some of them received minor injuries. “We’re here to ask for justice and a fair audit of fees for our kids. We don’t want to disturb law and order, yet we’re being stopped for unknown reasons,” said Yashish Yadav, a parent who received injuries on his ankle.
 
 The protesters, however, did not relent and despite the harsh sun, sat down on the road and refused to budge till they were allowed to meet divisional commissioner D Suresh or principal secretary (education) P K Das. Eventually, policer allowed the march to proceed and around 1,000 parents gathered near the mini secretariat to demand a rollback and monitoring of fee hikes. They also demanded that the Fee and   must start functioning in line with the Punjab and Haryana high court order dated November 23, 2016.
 
 The parents, who had arrived from all parts of the city, ranging across private schools, began their protest at around 11am. They dispersed at 2pm after meeting Suresh and Das. Some had even come from Faridabad to take part in the protest.  , whose daughter studies in DPSG Palam Vihar, said, “There’s no one to keep a tab on private schools. How do you justify Rs 4,500 for mid-day meals of KG students?”
 
 Most parents complained about hefty annual charges. “We’ve been demanding that the Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee should act as per the high court’s orders, which clearly asked it to resume the audit process, which has been on hold for over a year now,” said Bhupinder Singh, general secretary of the Haryana chapter of  .
 
 The memorandum made a request to the government authorities to ensure inspection and audit of the accounts of schools against which complaints have been filed. Additionally, they requested the committee ensure that funds are not diverted elsewhere and that schools charge fees as per Haryana School Education Rules 2003.
 
 Most parents complained about the hefty annual charges, which the schools have not been able to justify. “We do not wish to come down on the roads, but there is no one to listen to us. These schools are charging hefty annual charges without any logical explanation,” said Hitesh Yadav, whose kid studies in Blue Bells School, Sector 4.
 
