Lyricist and writer   doesn’t mince words when he says that the recent decision of the state government to review the   Award, constituted by the previous government, should be done but expedited as soon as possible. The present government has also put a stay on the dispersal of the monthly pension of `50,000 that was given to the awardees from March this year. Manoj, who was in Kanpur recently says, "I have heard that the Yash Bharti Awards are already under a scanner so I just want that the UP government should just speed up the process. They should not sit on it. My pension has not started yet and there are a lot of other people jinki ki inhone pension shuru nahi ki hai. It was officially conveyed to us and then I also heard it in the news that the awards were being reviewed. I believe there’s a committee which will evaluate if it has been given to some undeserving people. So all of this and whatever else the government is planning should actually happen and happen fast," he avers, adding, "There are a lot of people who actually deserve the award and need the money that was promised to them. They were expecting some money in their accounts, which never happened. The award was bestowed upon them as an honour. They didn't ask for it. Such people should not be kept on hold unnecessarily. I am being told that there were people who didn't actually deserve it, but for those few people, don’t deny what is due to those who deserve it and need the money. So jo karna hai jaldi karein. If you want to take the award away from us, do it. But uspe baithe na rahein. Act upon it, quickly."

  
  Muntashir receiving the award from   in 2016 (BCCL) 
 
 A frequent visitor to the city, Muntashir says he has a deep connection with Kanpur. "Kanpur aa kar purani yaadein taaza ho gayi. Way back, my father used to own a general merchant store here. Later he shifted to   (Gauriganj). I was seven years old when my parents brought me to Kanpur for the first time to visit the JK temple. Bahut hi yaadgaar pal thay woh. Uss samay thand ka mausam tha aur kohre main JK temple aur bhi khoobsurat lag raha tha," he recalls, adding, "Uss time I had a lot of interest in cricket and also used to play it so twice I came ot Kanpur to see international matches at the Green Park Stadium. The first match was India versus Sri Lanka in 1993 and the second time was of India and West Indies in 1994. Stadium mein live match dekhne ka apna hi mazaa hai," recalls Manoj.
 Known for penning romantic tracks, Manoj feels that romantic and soulful tracks have a much longer life than item songs per se. "While coming to Kanpur from  , en route I was listening to the radio and mostly romantic tracks were played during the journey. And I thoroughly enjoyed them. Unn gaano ko sunne ke baad mujhe yeh feel hua ki aise romantic lyrics daal chawal ki tarah hain. Aap chahe jitna burger aur pizza kha len par aakhir mai daal chawal hi satisfying lagta hai," he reasons. 
 
