Former secretary of   in  , where   owns the 20th floor, says her family   in the passageway, which could lead to a fire

 Actress’ spokesperson calls allegations rubbish; another resident says the complainant was bitter with the Sharmas after his ouster from managing committee
 
 Not just your average Amdavadi or Mumbaikar, even Bollywood’s box-office queen has problems with neighbours. Anushka Sharma, who owns the entire 20th floor of Badrinath Tower in Versova where she resides with her family, has been accused by the building’s ex-secretary of illegally installing an electric junction box in the passageway. Sunil Batra, in his complaint to the BMC, said the box was “illegally” installed, and that the Sharmas had flouted several other laws in the society.
 
 While the BMC recently wrote to the Sharmas about the box, the actress’ spokesperson told Mirror on Sunday that Batra’s allegations were baseless, and the electric junction box was installed “only after all permissions were in place”. Batra, who owns 16th and 17th floors in the building, said he first alerted the Fire Brigade about the box, and was asked to complain to the BMC.
 
 “The civic officials inspected the premises and found the electric junction box ‘highly objectionable’. They have asked the Sharmas to remove it,” Batra told Mirror. To prove his point, he produced a copy of the letter written by the K Ward assistant engineer (Building and Factory, BMC), which said: “To the owners/occupiers of flat Nos 2001 and 2002, the installation of electric junction box in the common passage area of society is highly objectionable. You are directed to remove the box, otherwise necessary action will be initiated as per the MMC Act.”
 
 
  
 
 
 The letter was issued on April 6. “The family has kept a wooden cupboard in the passageway, encumbering it further. Even their air-conditioner’s shaft is placed precariously on the outer ledge, which is not meant for taking such weight. It has already developed cracks,” Batra said. When asked why he didn’t take up the matter with the society’s managing committee, he said the committee was “hand-in-glove” with the Sharmas. “I can’t wait for a calamity to happen. There are many incidents of fire breaking out in housing societies,” he said.
 
 Anushka’s spokesperson said that there was “nothing illegal” about any construction or installation. The actress owns three flats on the 20th floor, and all permissions since 2013 are in place. “Anushka and her family are law-abiding and responsible citizens and wouldn’t do anything to inconvenience or harm anyone,” the spokesperson said. A resident of the same building said Batra had a personal axe to grind, hence he was targeting Anushka and her family.
 
 “This particular individual claiming that the construction is illegal, himself has multiple illegal parking spaces, apart from other illegal constructions in and around his house,” the resident said. The resident further claimed that Batra was ousted as secretary of the building following a consensus among several residents, including Anushka’s father Col (retired) Ajay Kumar Sharma. “He wants to take his personal vendetta into public domain by throwing around a  , such as Anushka’s, as she is a public figure,” the resident said.
 
