NEW DELHI: A part of the   of a room on the ground floor of   came crashing down on Saturday night. The occupant of the room escaped unhurt.

 According to the hostel residents, a chunk of the ceiling of room number 40 fell down late in the night, alarming the residents of adjoining rooms. They said the  , comprising chunks of cement and iron rods, fell on the edge of the bed.
 
 “We were in the next room just getting ready to go into room number 40 with our laptops to watch a movie together when we heard a loud thud. We went to the room to see what the noise was about, and saw a part of the ceiling on the bed,” said a hostel inmate. “Thankfully, the occupant of the room was not there when this happened, or it could have been fatal. The chunk fell exactly where his head is when he sleeps,” he added.
 
 The principal of the college, Rama Sharma, however said it was no major damage but only the plaster peeling off. “Had it been something more, there would have been injuries. It was just the usual peeling of the plaster. The contractors are there on the campus and waiting for the student to open the doors and carry the repairs,” she said.
 
 However, the students said it was more than just the plaster because the pieces that fell were made of cement and iron rods. “After we reported the matter to the hostel manager, he came to take a look and just asked the occupant of the room to move his bed to the other corner and sleep,” said a student. The manager of the hostel refused to comment.
 
 The students said such damage is routine in the hostel, and there have been at least three such incidents in the past one year. “The authorities just come to cover up the damage and leave. But the students are always scared,” said the student. The principal said the college is planning to renovate the hostel in batches once the students finish their exams. “This is a very old building. We cannot do much while the students are residing there. So once they finish their exams, we will undertake works block by block,” said Sharma.
 
 
