NEW DELHI: World’s largest processed fertilisers cooperative, IFFCO has divested its 21.64 per cent stake in its   arm,   General Insurance Company Limited (IFFCO Tokio) to joint venture partner,   Asia Pte Ltd (TM Asia). 

 Along with IFFCO, Indian Potash Limited (IPL) will also sell its 1.36 per cent stake to TM Asia. The decision to divest was made after the government hiked the FDI limit in
 insurance sector to 49 per cent.
 
 Upon acquisition of 23 per cent stake in IFFCO Tokio for Rs 2,530 crores, the shareholding of TM Asia will increase from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has accorded approval for increasing shareholding of TM Asia.
 
 IFFCO entered the insurance sector in the year 2000 after insurance business was opened up for private sector with the objective of facilitating insurance services for farmers across villages of India.
 
 Dr. U.S. Awasthi, Managing Director, IFFCO said “this is a good opportunity for IFFCO to unlock the valuation of its investment in IFFCO Tokio by sale of its part shareholding. This transaction would help IFFCO in raising the required capital to focus on more agribusinesses and to better serve the interests of the Indian farmers in the fast changing agriculture sector in India.” 
 
 He further said “even after the divestment, IFFCO will continue to exercise control in the business affairs of IFFCO Tokio in compliance with IRDA’s Guidelines on ‘Indian Owned and Controlled’ Insurance Companies.”
 
 Mr. Arthur Lee, the Chief Executive of TM Asia said “the additional share purchase is in line with Tokio Marine Group’s international business strategy to achieve sustainable
 growth and profit expansion as well as enhance diversified business portfolio through capturing growth opportunities in emerging countries.”
 
 Mr. K Srinivas Gowda, Chairman, IFFCO Tokio said, “With continuous high economic growth and increasing middle income population, the Indian insurance market is expected to grow rapidly."
 
 IFFCO Tokio aims to utilise Tokio Marine’s expertise and know-how in insurance to enhance business and profitability of the company in non-life insurance sector in India.
 
