Nagpur: Senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe-Patil, who was sidelined for the post of leader of opposition (Lop) in   (NMC), demanded that local Congress leaders should retire from active politics owning responsibility for the party’s abysmal performance in recently held civic elections. He was responding to a question whether former MP  , city Congress president Vikas Thakre and former ministers Nitin Raut and Satish Chaturvedi should be sacked from their posts on this ground at a press conference in city on Monday.

 Gudadhe charged that the local party workers were disappointed as responsibility for party’s defeat was not being fixed. “The party is facing a leadership crisis and there are no credible faces at local level. Congress is still very popular but voters have rejected the party due to infighting and factionalism,” he said. He further said Congress was not gearing up to play the role of opposition party and this would allow BJP to misuse its powers.
 
 The corporator also advised the local leaders to learn from young Congress corporator Bunty Shelke, who won from a ward where union transport minister   is a voter.
 
 Gudadhe, a general secretary of   (MPCC), further charged that Congress had given a walkover to BJP by appointing Sanjay Mahakalkar as the Lop in NMC. “I don’t want to question anybody’s capability but common people are witness to what he has done in NMC house in the last ten years. They also know my performance in last 15 years,” he added.
 
 MPCC president   had sent two observers to Nagpur on Saturday to gauge the opinion of Congress corporators regarding the best candidate for Lop. Gudadhe claimed most corporators had backed him and others had left the decision to the party. “Not a single corporator opposed my name but under the influence of certain local leaders, MPCC denied me the post,” he said adding that a certain group of local Congress leaders was trying to sideline him for 15 years.
 
 On whether he would oppose Vikas Thakre’s co-option into NMC house, Gudadhe said, “There are several deserving Congress workers. It depends on who else applies for the post. The decision should be taken on merit basis only.” He charged Thakre, who was the Lop in the last body, with failing to raise several issues of public importance in the House.
 
 Gudadhe alleged that NMC was deliberately overpaying private security agencies for their services and demanded that chief minister   appoint a separate uplokayukta for Nagpur on the lines of Mumbai. He also charged the BJP government with misleading citizens on property tax hike.
 
 
