NASHIK: Making fake copies of government documents like ration cards and income certificates have landed a man behind bars of the Panchavati police. Another suspect involved in the crime is on the run and not arrested yet.

 The supply department of the district collectorate on Monday raided a centre which makes fake certificates after receiving a tip-off from an unidentified person.
 
 The Mhasrool police said that supply inspector Anil Dembe has lodged a complaint against the two suspects Harishchandra Agrawal, a resident of Hirawadi and Pramod Narvekar, a resident of Swami Samarth Nagar, Dwarka. 
 
 Dembe said that around 4.30pm on Monday, food inspector Ganesh Rathod received a call from an unidentified person about a centre producing fake certificates, after which they raided the centre on the ground floor of Godavari Chambers, opposite   in Panchavati.
 
 During the raid, officials found various documents like income certificates, senior citizen certificates, domicile certificates, caste certificates, samples of death certificates, samples of certificates of being alive, stamps of Rs 100 and Rs 20, fake ration cards, rubber stamps of various departments including those of tehsildars. 
 
 The officials managed to nab Agrawal as he was inside the centre itself. The Panchavati police was immediately called in for the matter and Agrawal was detained. Narvekar could not be traced at his residence near Dwarka.
 
 “We have formed a team to find Narvekar, who was involved in making the fake doucuments. We are also trying to get as much information as possible from Agrawal,” said DCP Laxmikant Patil. 
 
 The police was startled to find that the centre was situated close to a Setu office. “Our aim will be to find out if the suspects had any link with preparing fake documents and exchanging rubber stamps,” said Patil. 
 
 Initial investigations have revealed that the centre has been operating for over a month.
 
 As people find it hard to get documents from government departments in time to establish their identity or residential address, many are on the look out for agents or centres where fake documents can be prepared. 
 
 “Our objective is to check if the two suspects have any political backing. We have come across recommendation letters of certain corporators. So, it is important to know how long the centre has been operating and if they have any political link,” Patil added.
 
