PANAJI: Jamshedpur FC, the newest   (ISL) franchise owned by Tata Steel, will pick one of the two most expensive players as their first choice when the domestic player draft gets under way in Mumbai on Sunday. India midfielder   and defender   are both priced at Rs 1.10 crore each at the draft, after failing to conclude negotiations with their respective franchises. Despite the cost, Jamshedpur FC are unwilling to take any chance in their debut year and will pick one of the two stars when they are called out to choose their first player.

 
 
 The ISL has been expanded to 10 teams this season with eight existing franchises, and Bengaluru FC, allowed to retain a maximum of two players. Since Jamshedpur join the league with a blank slate, they will get the first pick in the first and second rounds of the draft, while Delhi Dynamos ­ who didn't retain any player -will get the second pick in the first round of the draft. FC Pune City will join in the second round having retained just one player, while Chennaiyin FC will only join the domestic draft in the fourth round after retaining three players, including a capped U-21 developmental player. All other teams join in the third round.
 
 "The pool of extremely good players is limited. We have to choose the best at the first given opportunity. We cannot leave anything to chance," a source told TOI on the eve of the draft. A total of 205 players, including three college boys who emerged from the Reliance Foundation Youth Sports campus football championship, and several juniors eager to break into the ISL, will be up for grabs at the draft.
 
 The list also controversially includes Abinash Ruidas, who East Bengal have claimed is contracted with them till 2019, despite strong protests from the former Atletico de Kolkata midfielder that he was contracted for only a year (201617). Sources said Ruidas had signed on a blank piece of paper for the Kolkata giants, but despite East Bengal sticking to their claim and the matter now before the All India Football Federation (AIFF), he has been handed a chance to feature in the fourth edition of ISL.
 
 "Ruidas has been included only after consulting the AIFF," said a source who has been tracking the development for a while, indicating that the player will eventually get the nod to be freed from East Bengal's shackles. Each franchise can spend a maximum of Rs 18 crore on player salaries. But while there is a Rs 12.5 crore cap on foreign signings, a franchise can spend freely on their domestic signings during the draft and then adjust the purse with their international players.
 
 
 
 
 Eugeneson Lyngdoh, Anas Edathodika,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  
 
 
 
