NAGPUR: A satirical   ‘Natak Ek Crore Ka’ illustrating the epic Mahabharata in current scenario was presented by   at Shri Sai Sabhagruha, Shankar Nagar. The drama is about a village afflicted with poverty so much so that the villagers are deprived of all basic amenities. To overcome the tragedy, the villagers decide to stage a play on Mahabharata with a budget of Rs 1 crore financed by rich corrupt landlord of the village.

 “In current scenario we want smart people like Lord Krishna, who can make corrupt people pay for their sins by using better tricks,” said  , writer of the play.
 
 A long discussion takes place between villagers to decide what kind of event they should organize to raise the money. Unique ideas like organizing a musical concert, calling Justin Bieber for a concert, etc were put forth by the villagers. “Let’s call Justin Bieber,” said a villager. In reply another villager said, “Barber ... that means he will cut hair and sing at same time.”
 
 After discussing many ideas like musical concert, movie, kavi sammelan, etc the villagers decide to hold a play on ‘Mahabharata’ for the development of village.
 
 Trying to decrease the monetary gap between rich and poor, the villagers decide to organize a play to trick the corrupt landlord. As the word about the play spreads, a woman from another village visits the drama company to act in the play. Her punchline ‘Main Dolly the dancer, mere hai bahut sponsors’, catches the attention of the audience.
 
 Spreading laughter among the audience, the play moves forward and a scene of famous the dice game was created were the landlord plays the role of Shakuni. The drama concludes, as the corrupt landlord loses most of his land in the dice game to the villagers.
 
 Nitin Tekam, one among the audience, “Never thought that ‘Mahabharata’ can also be played like this, it was really funny,” 
 
 Jagdish Joshi, Shrikant Aaglave, Kashi Prasad Chaurasiya and Mohan Mate were also present at the event. A donation was a given by Rangrasiya Theatre to NGO Jeevan Anand which works for cancer patients.
 
 
