NAGPUR: Even as   are debating repeated failure of   done by the department, the latest evaluation report on 10-year-old plantations has exposed that plantations were taken up even in  , which is not permissible as per approved working plan, considered as bible for  .

 TOI on Saturday had reported how over Rs2.5 crore went down the drain after 76% plantations showed below 10% survival and while remaining 24% showing survival between 10-30% at the end of 10th year. At least 21 sites were selected for evaluation as per rules.
 
 The report revealed that plantations were taken up even in dense forest area having density above 0.40. These included Eranpar in Bhamragad (Gadchiroli), three sites in Pune and one in Kolhapur (Kaneri-Panhala). “How will trees grow in high density forest,” officials asked.
 
 The wrong site selection is said to be main reasons of failure of plantations in Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Kolhapur and some parts of Nagpur and Amravati circles, the report says. It states that plantations are taken up in high density areas every year.
 
 Another aspect of the ‘Evaluation Report 491’ reveals that records have not been maintained properly and out of 21 sites that were evaluated, expenditure figures were not made available at six sites. This was despite CCFs and DyCFs were directed by PCCF to ensure that item-wise expenditure figures are provided to the team.
 
 The report shows that Rs88.34 lakh were spent on 15 sites towards 5.72 lakh seedlings. Out of this, Rs60.26 lakh were spent on failed plantations and Rs28.08 lakh on partially successful plantations. 
 
 “This is a serious situation. As the trees grow they need space and in process not all survive, but less than 10% survival and even below 30% survival means officials certainly goofed up on plantation model they chose,” says MG Gogte, ex-PCCF and expert.
 
 Gogte adds that saplings are looked after by the officials only till first three years when money flows in. “The department should set a target which is achievable so that quality is maintained. More the target, more protection measures should be taken,” he said.
 
 Even a section of forest officials felt the issue needs to be addressed with adequate attention and accountability has to be fixed. They demanded action against those responsible for the mess and causing huge loss to the state.
 
 The report makes a mention of glaring examples like Dewalgaon in Brahmapuri where no works were carried out after first year of operation, leading to failure of bamboo plantations. Shockingly, survival rate at this site is 1% in the 10th year.
 
 “Inspection and supervision by officers, including RFOs, ACFs and DyCFs, even by CCFs concerned, is totally missing. Even bare minimum inspections are ineffective since they are not done grid-wise and required instructions and their compliance are not seen in the plantation registers. Even after repeated evaluation reports indicating failures, no accountability has been fixed for misappropriation of funds,” said officials.
 
 The report also states that even after getting financial help under Bamboo Mission, most of the bamboo plantations have failed with survival percentage below 10%. At Gondegaon (Narkhed), the survival is zero and at Rajapur (Bhandara) it is 1% in the 10th year.
 
 There have been instances of repeated failures on the same sites. For example, in Mahalgaon (Bhandara) even the second plantation taken in 2013 failed. The report says non-compliance of procedure in such cases needs to be taken very seriously and action should, invariably, be taken for the same.
 
 The prescribed procedure of inquiring into the causes of failure, doing panchnama of existing assets, fixing accountability and seeking CCFs permission are never followed.
 
 
