HYDERABAD: The state government on Friday appointed former secretary of legislative assembly, Soma Raja Sadaram, as   of Telangana. Budha Murali, a senior journalist of a vernacular daily, was named information commissioner. The committee, constituted to appoint members of the information commission, is headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and has deputy chief minister   and leader of the opposition K   as members. They met here on Friday and cleared the two names for the state information commission. Sources said 28 candidates were considered before the names of Sadaram and Murali were finalised. Later in the evening, governor ESL Narasimhan approved the names based on the recommendation of the committee. In all, apart from the CIC, 10 information commissioners can be appointed. The sources said some more appointments of information commissioners could hap pen in the near future.

 The last appointments to the information commission were made by the Kiran Kumar Reddy government in united AP and after the completion of their tenure, the posts have been lying vacant for the last four months. Stating that the crucial posts of CIC and information commissioners should not be kept vacant, the Forum for Good Governance ( ) had moved the high court following which the latter directed both Telangana and AP to make the appointments and inform the court about the same by September 21. AP is likely to do the same in the next few days. All posts are for a five-year tenure or till the person attains the age of 65. Sadaram has a doctorate in political science and he retired as legislative assembly secretary last month after getting two extensions. Information commissioner Murali is a chief of bureau in a Telugu daily. Meanwhile, there were murmurs over the `hush-hush' manner in which the government made the appointments. According to activists, the convention is that a notification should be issued first seeking applications from those interested, following which the screening panel can finalise the names.
 
 “Apart from inviting applications, the state government should ideally appoint a search committee to accept and scrutinize applications after which the names of short-listed candidates should be sent to the committee. Many people have been waiting for such notifica tion, but it was not to be,“ FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy told TOI. In the absence of a notification, many aspirants for the post of information commissioners had directly sent their applications to the general administration department (GAD) and the chief minister's office. “The fate of these applications is not known,“ he said.
 
 However, officials in the GAD said there was no provision in the RTI Act to call for applications .
 
 
