MALETHA (TEHRI GARHWAL): It's dawn. At Tehri Garhwal's Maletha village. Before the sun is out, Vimla Devi Negi is up and about, cooking and tending cattle.

 It'll be a long day, it's been like this for over a month, ever since election season started. Negi is president of the  , an outfit founded by Maletha's women to fight for local issues, especially the liquor menace.
 
 “My children have taken leave from school and college till polling day . Other women party workers too have put work in the fields on hold for the elections,“ she says and steps out of home quickly instructing her daughter, a class XII student, to finish the rest of the housework, directing her elder son to help with pamphlet distribution.
 
 The seeds of the party were sown when these women spearheaded a people's movement and resisted mining in their area. That was in 2014-2015. That drove away   causing dust pollution and harming the crops of the villagers, most of them farmers.
 
 Emboldened by their success, they set up their party last year. The foremost problem they identified, says Rameshwari Devi, general secretary, was alcoholism. “Women do all the work -at home and in the fields -and they are beaten up by their drunkard husbands. Youngsters too are getting addicted. The problem has become grave with the state government opening liquor vends on the village outskirts. Prohibition is our top poll promise,“ she says.
 
 Through the day over a hundred women gather a hundred women gather at the party office in the main lane of the village. There are some men too, in cluding Sameer Raturi, party candidate from Devprayag, where he's pitted against heavyweight Mantri Prasad Naithani, MLA and state education minister.
 
 Raturi is an activist who helped bring together the villagers during the antistone crusher stir and says he decided to contest to ensure that the party's issues get wider resonance.
 
 The party is contest ing from two other seats -Tharali in Chamoli and Chaubattakhal in Pauri Garhwal.
 
 The day's agenda is finalised and the women split into teams for door-to-door campaigning. In white Tshirts over their sarees and yellow cotton scarves displaying their candidate's name, they are enthusiastic.“We don't have the resources other parties have or celebrity names, but we're enthusiastic,“ says Raturi.
 
 Question remains whether enthusiasm only will see the women through. Poonam Kaintura, party candidate from Chaubattakhal, says that the hill women are “a force to reckon with...Remember, the Chipko movement was helmed by women. They take care of not just their homes but also the fields and are concerned about environmental issue.Their voices cannot be subdued for long.“
 
