BHOPAL: The district administration is focusing on   to raise revenue under new collector guideline rates for property. Administration started its annual survey to fix rates of residential and commercial properties in the state capital is facing a problem of a sluggish   which has been hit again by demonetisation.

 According to sources, around 300 locations on outskirts of the state capital have been identified and can expect around 5% spike in rates. It includes over 52 illegal colonies and 795 instance wherein registration of property has been above the collector rate guidelines. Indications are that the rest of city can expect a minimal hike of around 2% to 5% that too largely restricted to commercial zones. 
 
 Areas that can be impacted by the move include Hoshangabad road, Berasia, Gandhi Nagar and some other locations on the outskirts of the city with mushrooming satellite townships. Residential colonies in the state capital are expected to get a relief, this time.
 
 Earlier in December, a sub-evaluation committee to fix new collector rates began its survey of properties and assessed their market rates. The committee is expected to submit its inputs to the district collector in the coming days.
 
 Reeling under a property market without much activity, CREDAI - the apex body of private real estate developers associations is once again demanding a relook into the collector rates. “There was a point when collector rate did not reflect the actual  . However, now there is not much difference between the two. Collector rate should look at providing relief,” CREDAI   president, Wasiq Husain told TOI.
 
 According to industry estimates post-demonetisation, purchase and sale of property has touched a new low. There are about 5,000 homes that are ready for possession but there are no buyers.
 
 “There needs to be a relook into the process setting collector rate. At the moment, the highest sale value is taken as the benchmark of a property in a particular area. It has to be more cohesive and based on a more scientific assessment,” Husain added.
 
 “Our monthly average of property deals was two to five. Since demonetisation, brokerage is almost nil,” said Atul, a property dealer in  .
 
 Indications are that before the district collectorate submits its report to state level ‘central valuation committee’, the district valuation committee is likely to spike rate by 5% to 7% across some colonies on the outskirts of the state capital.
 
 
 Last two years have witnessed a rate hike in areas like Damkheda, Vishisthgram Chan, Lambakheda, Indus town Ratanpur, Misrod (other than main road), Indrapura C sector
 
 ***
 
 Hike 3.1% to 9.1% in other areas
 
 ***
 
 Commercial areas and residential were served a minimal hike. Kolar area one of the most adversely affected
 
 ***
 
 Demonetisation double whammy – sources said that banks finance on housing has dropped from 80% to 60% of the valuation of the property or collector rate (whichever is higher)
 
 New GIS survey by the smart city development corporation will also lead to new changes in collector rate
 
 
