HYDERABAD: A shirtless man takes a seat. Practitioner of   described as a Greco-Arabian form of medicine--approaches. At a designated "point" on the man's bare back, he places acrylic suction cups till the skin reddens. He then moves on to the next "point" till there is a series of cups placed linearly on the patient's back. This form of therapy, called Hijama, also known as cupping, is growing in the city and fast.

 Unani doctors, who are trained practitioners, describe Hijama as Ilaaj-Bit Tadbeer, or regimental therapy, which is covered under the Bachelor of   and Surgery course. The fact that it has also been called Tibb-e-Nabawi or Medicine of the Prophet has only added to its popularity.
 
 "Hijama is largely practised in the Old City. But over the past four or five years, people from different walks of life and from newer parts of town such   and even   are getting it done too. That it is said to be Tibb-e-Nabawi has contributed greatly to its popularity," says Dr Mohammed Abdul Mujeeb, a practitioner of Unani medicine.
 
 Practitioners say the therapy has successfully helped people tackle health conditions such as thyroid and hypertension. "Patients have reported a significant reduction in gynaecological problems in a few Hijama sittings. After around five sittings, a lady patient who was diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome, saw a marked difference in her condition," says Dr Neha and adds that out of every 10 patients who come for Hijama, roughly two are women. "There are many who come for alleviation of joint pains," she says.
 
 Take the case of Shabbir Khan, a Hijama "repeater". Explaining the reasons for opting for the treatment, he says, "There was an excruciating pain in my calves. This is my third sitting and the pain has reduced."
 
 Mirza Yunus Baig, a 27-year-old first timer with backache, says he saw news reports that the cupping technique even is used by Olympians.
 This, apart from it being refer red to as Tibb-e-Nabawi, gave him another reason to walk in for a sitting. "My father has benefited from this therapy and I am here too," he says.
 
 Hijama is approved by the Department of Ayurveda Yoga Unani Sidhha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Nizamia Tibbi Hospital in Charminar is a major government-run centre in the city.
 
 AYUSH additional director (Unani Medicine) Dr Mir Yusuf Ali said there are around 4,500 Unani doctors in the state who have studied the practice of Hijama. However, not all are its practitioners. "Hijama practitioners do not have to register separately with AYUSH. We, too, have seen a spike in its popularity, so much so that its commercialization is being noticed. Some practitioners charge a high fee," he says.
 
 While some organizations only charge for the acrylic cups and surgical blades--the cost does not cross Rs 60-70--others charge according to the number of sittings or a choice of package, which can be as high as Rs 5,000.
 
 
 
 
 
 
