Bhopal: In less than three months after a State Bank of India ( ) ATM in Hoshangabad of Madhya Pradesh dispensed   Rs 500  ,issued by the   of India, another ATM in Bhind dispensed similar note of Rs 2000 denomination.

 Rajmohan Rajoria had made a withdrawal of Rs 15,000 from SBI, ATM in Bhind. When he found that one of the notes was fake he approached bank officials, but they reportedly refused to entertain him. He then went to the Kotwali police station and lodged a complaint prompting police investigations into the process of loading cash in ATM.
 
 Kotwali Police station incharge Shailendra Singh told media that the matter is being investigated. Rajmohan’s father Radheshyam, who is a retired army subedar and has an account in the SBI’s Bhind city branch, said police case has been registered under Sections 489B (using forged currency notes), 489E (making use of documents looking like currency notes) and 420 (cheating) of IPC.
 
 Earlier in March, a security guard of veterinary hospital in Hoshangabad who had gone to withdraw cash from a State Bank of India ATM was in for a shock when a Rs 500 note allegedly dispensed from the machine read ‘Manoranjan Bank of India’ in Hindi and ‘Children Bank of India’ in English. Komal Singh Kewat had approached bank officials to get his note replaced, but in vain, said sources.
 
 Kewat said he had gone to withdraw Rs 2,000 from the ATM; one of the notes was fake. Kewat said he had initially kept the notes in his wallet and moved out of the ATM. Later when he checked them outside, he found that one of the notes was fake.
 
 The note had the same colour as the original currency, and the printed figures in the same font as the original, but was certified by ‘Manoranjan Bank of India’ with a seal of ‘Children Bank of India’ instead of RBI. It also had ‘Full of Fun’ written in place of the watermarks.
 
 However,SBI officials maintain that all its currency chests have a very secure system to monitor quality of notes. “These machines are equipped with templates of all legal tender in the country and any note not conforming to security features is separated as ‘suspect note’ for further manual scrutiny. No fake note is likely to be dispensed through the bank's ATMs at any time”, officials said.
 
 
