Chennai: A 23-year-old man drowned in the YMCA, Nandanam,   late on Saturday evening, the second such death within 12 hours of the death of an eight-year-old girl at a summer swimming camp in Mogappair East.

 Police, who initially believed that an epileptic fit in the swimming pool had caused the death of A Bala Subramanian, of Neelankarai, said the victim’s friends gave him first aid before hurrying him to Government Royapettah Hospital, where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival.
 
 “Subramanian had gone to YMCA with his friends on Saturday evening,” an investigating officer said. “He worked as a bank executive in DLF near Manapakkam. His friends said he was learning how to swim.”
 
 At 6.40 pm, Subramanian and 10 other people including his friends were in the pool, which at one end has a depth of more than 5 feet. As he practised at one end of the pool, his friends were swimming at the other end.
 
 “When Subramanian’s friends decided they had enough swimming for the day, they got out of the pool,” the officer said. “But they could not spot Subramanian.”
 
 When the bank executive failed to appear for some time, his friends assumed that he had gone to the wash room. After around 20 minutes, when he remained missing but his shirt and cellphone lay untouched near the pool, his friends realised that something was amiss.
 
 “Subramanian’s friends asked lifeguards to check the pool,” the officer said. “The lifeguards dived in, searched the bottom of the pool and pulled out an unconscious Subramanian.”
 
 The lifeguards attempted to resuscitate Subramanian even as his friends alerted the 108 ambulance service. They took him to a government hospital in Saidapet where doctors referred him to Government Royapettah Hospital. But by the time they arrived there, it was too late.
 
 Subramanian’s friends informed police officers that he was unlikely to have had an epileptic seizure because he was medically fit and did not have such an attack earlier.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, P B Andrea, 8, drowned in a private swimming pool in JJ Nagar.
 
 
