KOLKATA: At a time when the Centre’s focus is on the generation of power through alternative resources, IIEST, Shibpur has designed a micro-grid, where energy from the sun, wind and bio-gas will be stored, ready to electrify areas that are yet to see the “light”. 

 President   will visit IIEST on Friday to inspect the innovation before inaugurating and dedicating it to the service of the nation. 
 
 Several other institutes in the country are experimenting with efficient alternative sources of energy, but the seven-year-old Centre of Excellence in Green Energy at IIEST becomes the first to generate power from three non-conventional sources and merge them in a micro-grid. This, hope experts, will go a long way in bringing electricity to a large number of still-in-the-dark villages and pockets that lack grids, leading to major power fluctuations. 
 
 The IIEST green energy centre can generate 30-35KW power from three alternative sources, enough to electrify at least 100 households. For that, three systems have to work simultaneously to generate power: while solar panels can produce at least 10-15KW power, a bio-gas plant can generate 15KW energy and wind 3-4KW. Every cell used for the solar power plant, set up atop the chief administrative building of IIEST, has been manufactured at the institute lab. “In solar energy, the cells pose the biggest challenge as they have to be imported, pushing up prices. We have not only been making our cells but also reached a stage, where we can go in for commercial bulk production with a partner,” said  , chair professor and coordinator of the green energy centre.
 
 He, however, seems to take greater pride in the bio-gas digester and the energy it can produce. All the waste generated at the kitchens, hostels and other facilities on the campus are collected several times in a day and fed into the digester, which produces bio-gas to turn the turbines to generate energy. “We are generating the maximum through bio-gas being produced in-house. We are producing the least from the wind energy segment because a lot is dependant on the strength of the wind naturally available and there are wide regional variations,” Saha said. The bio-digester has been designed in collaboration with Vivekananda Institute Nimpith, a wing of the  . 
 
 The centre has also designed a special battery (redox) that can store the excess power that can be flown into the grid later. While PSU Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Ltd is about to forge an alliance for bulk commercial production, the green centre is considering a private company, Synchro Pack Ltd, for a tie-up.
 
 
