Producer of   left a  , claiming his wife threw him out of the house after his film faced huge losses in 2015

 The suicide of young Marathi film producer   this weekend sent shockwaves through the city and local film fraternity, but the allegations made in his suicide note — including abuse by his wife and the   sent after him — has sparked new footnotes in the tragedy.
 
 The detailed social media post left behind by the deceased had suggested that his wife, Priyanka, was solely to blame for his drastic decision to take his life. Interestingly, this has sparked the interest of the local Men’s Rights Association (MRA), an NGO that claims to seek protection of the “elusive rights of men”. Now, the organisation has announced that it will provide all possible legal help to Tapkir’s side of the family if they choose to move court against Priyanka in this case.
 
 In the same note, Tapkir had also mentioned that some cops, who visited when his wife lodged a complaint against him, had taken a bribe to not arrest him. While the MRA has also made a noise about this incident, it has also reached the attention of the Pune commissioner of police, who now plans to carry out an inquiry to verify Tapkir’s allegations. Tapkir, 35, had in 2015 produced the Marathi film Dhol Taashe, starring Hrishitaa Bhatt, Abhijeet Khandkekar and Jitendra Joshi.
 
 On Sunday morning, Tapkir’s body was found in a room of the Hotel President in Deccan, and police suspect he may have ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance. Deccan police officials informed that Tapkir had checked in to the hotel around 8 pm on Saturday, after which he also ordered dinner to his hotel room. The next morning, when hotel staff found Tapkir had not opened his door till 10.30 am, they knocked, but got no response for a while. Finally, the hotel management called up the police control room. Inspector (crime) Sucheta Khokale of Deccan police station told Mirror,“After hotel staff called the police, we sent a team that broke the room’s door down. There, they found Tapkir’s body lying on the bed.”
 
 Only hours before this, Tapkir had posted a long message on his Facebook page, in which he had made several shocking claims. He had admitted that he faced severe financial losses after making his last movie, but that in the aftermath of this crisis, his wife had started harassing him. He said that while his father and sisters tried to support him, his wife threw him out of the house instead, leaving him with no place to call home for at least six months. He also mentioned that Priyanka had asked some of her friends to beat him up.
 
 As Tapkir’s disquieting post went viral, MRA Pune unit members caught on, and brought up his travails in their Sunday meeting at Sambhaji Park. There, they also decided to extend legal help to Tapkir’s kin against his wife.
 
 Advocate Mahesh Shinde, president of the MRA Pune unit, told Mirror, “It was appalling for us to see a well-known personality like a film producer also become the victim of torture by his wife. His Facebook post very clearly mentions how he has gone through her harassment. In our Sunday meeting, we read out his post, after which all our members decided to give his family all possible legal help.”
 
 Shinde added, “Going by the post, his wife should be booked for abetting his suicide. Along with her, police should also book those who had beaten him on her instructions. We will be meeting his family members soon and extending all our support,” Shinde added.
 
 Apart from casting aspersions on his wife and her friends, Tapkir in his suicide post also said his wife had lodged a complaint against him and his father. At the time, he alleged, cops from that particular police station had taken Rs 10,000 from him so as to not make an arrest.
 
 With this mention, MRA members are also clamouring for action against these corrupt cops. “The police should have carried out an inquiry into the wife’s allegations in the first place and then taken the appropriate action. Instead of that, they decided to extract money from a person already facing harassment. We are demanding that the police also be booked in this case,” Shinde further said.
 
 Meanwhile, Pune police chief Rashmi Shukla has also taken cognisance of the issue, assuring that an inquiry will be carried out into Tapkir’s allegations. Speaking to Mirror, she said, “We will have to verify the allegations made by him in his post. If these are found to be true, we will take the strictest possible action against the police personnel concerned. I will be directing an officer of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) rank to conduct the inquiry in this issue.”
 
 A FINAL POST
 
 While Atul Tapkir’s controversy-sparking suicide post went up on Facebook around midnight on Saturday, it immediately garnered thousands of reactions, along with several hundred ‘likes’. Observing the response, the producer came back with a second post after his detailed sign off, expressing that he was “feeling angry” that his followers seemed to be liking his post without even checking what it was about — his imminent suicide.
 
