MUMBAI: Among the factors that could have led to the chief minister's   figures an unprecedented one:  . 

 On Thursday,   had a close shave when the   helicopter crashed within minutes of take-off from a temporary helipad at Shivaji Mahavidyalaya school ground in  . Even as investigations into the accident have begun, a video of the crash, circulating on social media, has raised the eyebrows of helicopter pilots and aviation experts over one aspect of the take-off. The dust clouds that billowed from under the chopper, that is. 
 
 “Generally, pilots operating from temporary helipads ensure the place is watered well. But that doesn’t seem to have been done in this case,” said a helicopter pilot. And there in comes the issue of water shortage. 
 
 In April 2016, there was a hue and cry over use of large quantities of water for preparing temporary helipads, especially in drought-prone areas, for government use. State officials said that since then the quantity of water used has been cut down. “The ground was watered on Thursday but not enough water was used, and since the temperature was 45 degrees celsius, the ground would have been dry and dusty,” said an official. Besides, a lot of debris and bricks from a neighbouring construction site were dumped near the helipad.
 
 Why are temporary helipads watered well? The turbulent air currents created by helicopter's rotor wash drives loose soil particles off the ground. Though most helicopters have built-in filters to protect the engines and equipment, foreign object damage is a concern. But what is certain is that the dust clouds hamper pilot's visibility during takeoff. In Thursday’s case too, the critical take off phase seems to have been plagued by poor visibility. 
 
 But district collector G Sreekant said all the 2005 DGCA guidelines on temporary helipads were followed. He said that in the last one month three-four VIP landings and takeoffs have been handled at the site. Meanwhile, a four-member team of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and an aircraft accident investigation bureau team reached the spot for investigations. Statements of the crew and the passengers along with witnesses will be taken, said principal secretary Valsa Nair Singh. She said that she will wait for the report from DGCA about the fitness of the damaged Sikorsky helicopter and then decided either to dispose it or repair it.
 
 
 
