NAGPUR: Reacting to Central government’s decision on making   optional for restaurants, hoteliers in the city feel that it will hit their service staffers the most and not their cash registers.

 “The move will be beneficial for customers. It will not make much difference to the hotel’s revenue but will affect the staffers,” said restaurateur Payal Puri and added, “We have decided to abide by the government’s decision and are not levying service charge to avoid arguments with the customers,” she added.
 
 Agreed Prathmesh Divecha, manager of a city hotel, “Service charge was mostly levied by five-star or big hotels. The hotel management won’t be affected if it is not charged, but the staffers will.” 
 
 While staffers agree that doing away with service charge will hit their pockets, they also pointed out that many establishments were anyway not passing on the amount collected to them. “At some places, the charges are divided between waiters, back room staffers and even security guards. But at many hotels, the money never reaches the workers. Waiters mostly rely on tips which is quite inconsistent. We have always been underpaid and the best option is to increase our monthly salary,” said Amol Ninawe who is working as a waiter for the last 17 years.
 
 Hotels and restaurants, which never levied service charge, practice less-ambiguous ways to reward their staffers. “When service tax was made applicable for hotels, we increased the room tariff and price of dishes marginally rather than including service charge as we thought it was unethical,” said Tejinder Singh Renu, owner of   and secretary of  . “When customers see no service charge is imposed, they willingly give tips to the waiters. This direct way of rewarding them is more transparent and I have suggested the association members to follow the same procedure,” Renu added. 
 
 Breakfast Story, which opened in the city around three years back, has never levied service charge. “We have never believed in service charge. It is ridiculous — why should people be charged for services? If they like it, they will pay extra or they won’t. Making service charge mandatory is a way of cheating customers, there is no way to know where the money is actually going,” said owner Milind Kulkarni.
 
 Kulkarni has kept a tip-box in which customers put money as per their wish. “At the end of every month, I personally tally the amount and divide it evenly among waiters, chefs and the housekeeping staff,” added Kulkarni. 
 
 Customers feel they should have the liberty to decide if or not service charge has to be paid. Entrepreneur and food blogger Swati Sani shared an experience, “About 5-6 years back, I wasn’t happy with the services of a restaurant and argued with the management. They accepted my points, apologized for the poor service and exempted me from paying service charge.” Adding that service charge had always been optional, Sani said, “Restaurants are free to include service charge. But if consumers are not satisfied and put it forth, they should have a choice not to pay.” 
 
 
