VISAKHAPATNAM: Adding a special spark to Sunday, Happy Streets kicked off at   from early morning. Non-stop music, aerobics and dance kept Vizagites, especially children, rooted for a fun-filled and active holiday morning.

 Like every week, the relaxing yoga session gave way to  , so far the crowd-puller of Happy Streets. The crowd enthusiastically participated in foot-tapping numbers and danced with instructor Madhu Singh and her group.
 
 But soon after the stage was taken over by circus artistes. While juggler Suraj Jadav displayed his skills at lasso much to the onlookers’ applause, two clowns brought further cheer among public with their antiques and bonded with the children in fun and laughter. 
 
 That’s not all. The stage was again set for a unique performance by Kanthi Kiran from BITS Vizag who displayed his skills at beat boxing. He impersonated musical instruments including drum beats by playing them with the mouth and nose. Finally, the stage was taken over by the vibrant   group led by Daniel.
 
 Aditi Jain, a student who has come from Bengaluru, said, “I came here to spend holidays at my cousins’ place. I heard about Happy Streets and therefore came here. It’s a very good event with lots of things to do. I participated in Zumba and tug of war.”
 
 Children also were found playing the regular games including carom, archery, skating, cycling, shuttle and so on the vehicle-free stretch. “It’s fantastic to be here every Sunday morning. Everyone should come and take part in the fun and fitness activities,” pointed out A Suresh, librarian at Waltair Club.
 
 Side by side, there were some other interesting events too. Hundreds of students of BITS Vizag organised a run on Smart Career and   – urging students not to leave the city but study in the educational hub of AP.
 
 Another interesting event was dogs’ training by trainer MM Basha, where pet dogs brought by individuals were trained to play various games such as pass through rings. “We also train sniffer dogs to detect explosive material,” said Basha.
 
 Organised by The Times of India, Happy Streets is an initiative by   and GVMC and is presented by AP Tourism in association with Vaibhav Jewellers, Vignan Group of Institutions and Oakridge International School.
 
