NOIDA: Some   put on a banned list brought out by   in response to the July 12 mob violence targeting the housing society have returned to work, backed by their employers.

 The decision to put out a list has divided the Sector 78 housing society in which around 2,000 families live, with several residents questioning the motive behind the move and pointing out that a particular group, maids from Cooch Behar in West Bengal, had been targeted.
 
 But residents who issued the list denied that, saying the step was taken in the interest of security and after consulting CCTV footage of the attack. However, some residents conceded that the list may be revised as they were getting feedbacks from others with an undertaking that their maids were not part of the mob and should be allowed to return. 
 
 Rahima Bibi, who works at a 14th floor flat, said she was not a part of the mob. “My name also appeared in the list without any check. My employer spoke to other residents and expressed concern. I was told my name has now been taken out of the list. I went to Moderne in the morning and evening for work, though I have not got a new identity card,” she said.
 
 On July 18, TOI had reported a similar case in which an employer had called her maid near the society, picked her up in her car and brought her to work. The maid was then dropped outside the society in a car after work. Her name too had appeared on the list.
 
 “Following violence, residents held a meeting and prepared a list based on CCTV footage and accounts of residents and security guards. It is possible some names may have appeared who were not part of the mob. The list may be revised. But it is the duty of the police to investigate the names and find out their involvement,” said a resident.
 
 Delhi-based Gharelu Kamgar Union, which has stood by the domestic helps in Sector 78, claimed the number of those banned had actually been widened. Its convener Maya John said initially, the society banned 60 maids and then 81. 
 
 “We received information that the list has now reached 140. Our teams are visiting these slum areas to make people aware of their rights,” she said.
 
 John said GKU is also trying to unite all maids and urge them to boycott Moderne. But the call for boycott has almost had no impact.
 
 “We belong to very poor families and we need to work in order to survive. We do not want to land into politics by boycotting the society,” said Marjina, a  . They expressed sympathy for Zohra Bibi and her family but said she had created trouble for the entire group. The mob attacked Moderne after Zohra Bibi alleged she had been confined and thrashed by her employers, the Sethi family. The Sethis, however, have accused Zohra of stealing from them. The mob even vandalised their house. 
 
 Zohra and her family have moved out of the slum next to Antriksh Golf View 1.
 
 
