MEERUT: Soon after the announcement of   as the   for Uttar Pradesh, “insecurity” crept in among the  . Clerics in the state voiced their worry, saying with Adityanath who is known for his “anti-Muslim” stand, at the helm, BJP has “disappointed” a large section of its voters.

 Talking to TOI,  , Meerut city qazi and former   chairman, said, “The announcement of Yogi Adityanath as the UP CM is extremely disappointing for the Muslims of the state, without whose contribution BJP could have not got such a mandate. Adityanath is known for his anti-Muslim remarks and staunch support for Hinduism and by appointing him as the CM, the party has made development in the state take a backseat. A majority of Muslims are feeling insecure today and will remain worried as he continues to rule over the state for five years.”
 
 BJP leaders including 80 MLAs met in Lucknow on Saturday and decided to appoint the controversial saffron leader as CM designate of India’s most populous and electorally most significant state.
 
 Further voicing the concern of the Muslim community,  , general secretary of All India Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, a wing of Dargah Aala Hazrat in Bareilly, said, “There is a sense of fear in a large section of Muslims after the announcement of Yogi Adityanath as the UP CM face. It is said that when people don’t have responsibilities, their actions and words are not well thought of, but with responsibilities change comes too. All we can hope is that the change comes in this case as well.”
 
 A staunch Hindu, Adityanath has been embroiled in many a religious controversy. In 2005, it was alleged that he led a purification drive involving the conversion of Christians to Hinduism. In 2015, Yogi Adityanath said that those who oppose yoga can leave India and that they should be drowned.
 
 Meanwhile, Shadab Chouhan, party spokesperson of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) tweeted from his Twitter handle @chouhan_shadab, “If #yogi_adityanath become chief minister of Uttarpradesh means secularism, pluralism and diversity is under #threat..” (sic).
 
 
 
