CHENNAI: Multiple pin pricks, repeated electric shock-like pain, a consistent ache — every accident survivor in the room had a story to tell on their physical agony. Some living with it for as long as 27 years. 

 On Friday, a   was launched for those who had suffered injuries to their brachial plexus — a network of nerves originating near the neck and shoulder and supplies nerves to the arms. Close to half of road accident survivors need treatment for the injury, but many are forced to live with the pain owing to poor awareness and fewer specialists.
 
 With the help of  , a website was launched for the group. The online portal will facilitate interaction between patients and doctors and carry testimonies of those who lived with the pain and those who trumped it with medical intervention. 
 
 Ramesh, 33, from Coimbatore, is one of them. He survived a road traffic accident in 2013, but he had little to cheer. “Every time I touched something I felt a sharp pain. I couldn’t work. I underwent depression. Several times, I thought ending my life. The pain was such,” said Ramesh. He underwent an eight-hour-long procedure at Kauvery hospital on September 18, which involved grafting nerves from the left side of his neck to replace the injured part. 
 
 Another survivor,   from Kozhikode, recalled how he lived with severe pain for 27 years after he sustained a crush injury while working in the Gulf. “I used to take 8-10 pain-killers a day. I was irritable. I was low. I wanted to die,” he said. It was a surgery here that finally came to his rescue. 
 
 Addressing reporters on Friday, Dr  , consultant neuro-spine surgeon, Kauvery Hospital, said there were several patients suffering from the injury but unaware of the support group. Most common causes of brachial plexus injuries are road accidents and fall from height. Around 40% of patients with these injuries develop severe pain in the whole limb, either due to spinal cord damage or forceful detachment of nerve roots from the spinal cord. The pain is typically burning, stabbing, pricking, electric shock-like, sharp and continuous. “The pain can be aggravated just by talking, movement of any body part, noise from the surroundings or even breeze,” said Dr Balamurali.
 
