The first episode of The   is out and it is a delight to watch.
 
  The episode features   with her very first guest and one of her closest friends,  .
  
  
 
  
 
  
  The fun filled episode starts with Katrina narrating the story about how every time she goes to Mini’s house, and she always makes the best food for her within 30 minutes, keeping in mind Katrina’s dietary requirements.
  
  Speaking on the same Mini Mathur, who hosts the   said, "I have always been cooking traditional recipes and I'm a curious foodie who travels to eat. More importantly I love the stories behind comfort food, family recipes that pass down with so much expertise and love and I wanted to explore that".
  
  While Katrina was craving a cheese dosa, much like most of us always are, Mini tells her she’s got to cook something better than a cheese dosa on the show and they decide to cook Kat’s favourite dish of all time –  .
  
  Katrina jokes about how she would eat pancakes for breakfast, lunch and dinner if she could. The menu for the episode is Coconut Pancakes and Katrina’s Krazy Concoction.
  
  Katrina thinks she isn’t that good a cook but does a great job with the pancakes, perfectly breaking each egg, mixing the batter and ending up with some delicious coconut pancakes.
  
  The next thing on the menu is Katrina’s Krazy Concoction. This is actually a smoothie, the recipe of which she got from a really nice cook book. It is one of Katrina’s favourite smoothies and she shares the recipe with all her fans too.
  
  While having their fine meal of coconut pancakes with maple ginger chilly sauce and ice-cream with the smoothie, Mini and Katrina are joined by Mini’s little daughter, Sairah. 
  
  Sairah loves the pancakes and thinks they are better than the one’s at any restaurant.
  
  The episode concludes with Mini giving Katrina some really awesome goodies.
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  The Mini Truck is a 7-9 minute weekly web series which will feature a Bollywood celebrity in each episode. The Mini Truck, produced by Emmay Entertainment airs on Indian Food Network Youtube Channel.
