BENGALURU: Over 500 cameras including 250 covering the peripheral walls that run for 1.5km and multiple security agencies including Army’s Garud Commando Force, IAF’s special force and the state police will guard Yelahanka Air Force Station during the five-day   that begins on February 14.

 “Preparations have been going on for six months. We have a standard operating procedure (SoP) in place for all possible situations. Last year about 50 cameras covered the peripheral walls, this year we will have nearly 250. Security inside too is being beefed up,” said a senior officer in the know of things.
 
 The organizers are confident of beating the 2015 edition in terms of participation, with the venue already overbooked and no space for any additional bookings as of Wednesday. The 2015 edition had seen participation of exhibitors from 33 countries with 644 companies (326 overseas & 318 domestic), while 46 overseas delegations were accommodated over a gross exhibition area of 108,250 sqm — nearly 44% more than the previous edition held in 2013.
 
 The Operations Control Centre (OCC ) — the mainstay of security — will keep a watch on every corner of the station. Manned by a specialized team, it will be scanning the maximum number of cameras while some others will be watched by security agencies like the CISF.
 
 Special care will be taken at strategic areas across the base known for untoward incidents. “Many cameras will have the PTZ (pan-tilt-zoom) feature for an extra edge, while all videos from the cameras can be backed up for 10 days,” the officer said.
 
 Notwithstanding the arrest of a labourer earlier this week over suspicion of a security threat, officials involved in the planning said the base was secure and that everything was happening as per plan.
 
 “A plan of action is ready for all situations. Some anticipated emergencies are air crash, stampede, hoax calls creating panic, hangar collapse and fire. So far as other threat perceptions go, we are in close touch with the intelligence fraternity,” a source said.
 
 The source added that information on new settlers around the venue has already been collected and that residents are also being vetted. The OCC, the official said, will have personnel from the Intelligence Bureau, National Disaster Response Force, Rapid Action Force and the state police.
 
 Besides, the   dog squad, the army’s bomb detection and disposal squad and the commando force will be there at the venue. Also, IAF choppers will be on standby for air ambulance duties.
 
 
