HYDERABAD:   on Thursday achieved a major success in breaking the stalemate between   over sharing of assets. He personally intervened in the deliberations between representatives of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to strike a deal that included sharing of 9 institutions listed in Schedule IX, sharing of deposits of these cooperative institutions and swapping of employees. He also prevailed over the ministers from the two states to agree for a dialogue between the   to settle the issue of   working in Telangana.   that issues that can be sorted out through negotiations should be taken up first has paid dividends.

 “As per the directions of the governor we have decided to swap employees working in other than their native states.We agreed to this and AP's response is awaited,“ G Vivek, advisor to Telangana government and member of the committee, told TOI. Both states have agreed to share assets worth `100 crore that belong to 9 cooperative institutions listed in Schedule IX of the AP Reorganisation Act.
 
 They are AP Vaddera Cooperative Society, AP Sangara Cooperative Finance Society, AP Valmiki Finance Corporation, Krishna Balija Development Society, Bhatraja Cooperative Development Society, Viswabrahmana Cooperative Federation, Salivahana Cooperative Society, AP Toddy Toppers Society and AP Medara Cooperative Finance Society.
 
 “The distribution of assets of these cooperative institutions will be done on the basis of the population ratio.About 100 crore cash deposits will be shared by the two states,“ L Premchandra Reddy, convenor of the committee appointed by the AP government, said. The issue of shifting of 1,254 employees by the Telangana power utilities also came for discussion and governor Narasimhan directed the MDs of Telangana Transco and AP Transco to discuss it and submit a report to him in a week.
 
 When Telangana ministers Harish Rao, Jagadish Reddy and advisor Vivek insisted on AP handing over the secretariat buildings, their AP counterparts Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and Achhannaidu asked for some time as they need to discuss the matter with their chief minister. On the issue of the institutions under Schedule X, the AP ministers insisted on a dialogue, but the governor told them to wait till some of less complex issues are settled between the two states.
 
 Finally, it was decided that the two sides will meet again on February 26 in which the issue of secretariat buildings and schedule X assets will be discussed.
 
