MUMBAI: As all eyes continue to be set on the  's move regarding the moderation of marks, students of Class XII from across boards are getting more anxious about the upcoming admission season. City principals feel with the state board claiming to not have adopted a moderation policy, students of other boards might be at a disadvantage. 

 Gangadhar Mhamane, chairperson of the   of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said the HSC results are not likely to be affected by the confusion surrounding the moderation of marks. "Our systems are transparent and we have never felt the need to adopt a moderation policy. Some boards might have done it and are in a fix due to the confusion but we are not troubled by it."
 
 However, principals from non-state board schools are worried for their students who will compete with state board students for college admissions. College admissions in the state do not give any consideration to students on the basis of the boards from which they appear for the higher secondary exams. "The system of moderation is not transparent. While some board might be giving marks to all for a difficult question, other boards do it at an individual level by awarding one or two extra marks to bring a student's score up to distinction," said the principal of an ICSE school in the city.
 
 Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination, did not comment on what they were following for assessment this year. "We are currently very busy with collating evaluated marks from the examiners and completing result-related work is priority," he said.
 
 Principals felt   are likely to be most affected. "The   assessment this year has been done without any moderation marks. It is unclear whether all boards have followed this. So, if CBSE declares the results without adding the marks, the performance is expected to dip and students will not score as well as their counterparts in other boards. If CBSE has to go back to giving moderation marks, results might be delayed which will also have an impact on admissions," said Raj Aloni, principal, Ramseth Thakur Public School. 
 
 
