Bhopal: Two-thirds of elected representatives in   ( ) have hardly opened their mouths during official meetings of the council in the last three years, highlights official data.

 The council, in which BJP enjoys an absolute majority has had full-fledged council meetings 11 times in the past three years.
 
 Not only newly-elected corporators, but the seniors too have maintained a stoic silence on civic issues.
 
 Surprisingly, women representatives have fared well compared to their male counterparts. Around 30% of the questions were raised by women members.
 
 Topping the list is Congress corporator from ward 22, Raisa Malik who had asked 16 questions on urban issues.
 
 “Questions are raised for bringing about accountability. In the absence of meaningful debates during BMC council meets, often BMC officials have not provided complete information on issues raised at the council meet,” said local Congress leader and ward 23 corporator, Rafiq Qureshi, who on an average raised a question in each of the 11 council meets.
 
 Among the 11 meetings held so far, a total of 128 questions were raised. This, at a time when projects on sewage, storm water management, water supply across all 85 wards and many other civic issues were delayed.
 
 Interestingly Congress stalwarts like Girish Sharma, Amit Saxena and leader of opposition in BMC Mohammed Sagheer have together raised only 10 queries.
 
 Ignoring public concerns and civic amenities, the council meets have been marred by incidents of protests and it even made national headlines when a civic body official was caught on camera watching pornography.
 
 Barely 15% of the BJP corporators have raised questions for debate or sought information about on-going projects while the opposition Congress remains divided.
 
 Since the council was formed in 2015, issues tabled by the ruling party has seldom failed to get through. Mayor Alok Sharma has somewhat mastered the art of getting opposition members on board during session breaks and that bonhomie is reflected at the council meets too.
 
 Observers point to this due to divisions within the opposition Congress representatives. Infighting within the Congress corporators have come as a big relief for the BJP, that has been bailed out from tight situations.
 
 
