BENGALURU: A good story well told has the power to enthral audiences everywhere in the world, irrespective of language. Bengaluru-based theatre group Kriyative Theatre got to experience it firsthand on its recent trip to Serbia.

 The group had been invited to take part in the 44th International Festival of Alternative and 44th International Festival of Alternative and New Theatre (INFANT), Novi Sad, to stage their play, Where The Shadow Ends. According to  , the play's director, the invite to go to Serbia came through, courtesy cast member  , who essays the role of Ravana in it. “A well-known actor in Serbia, Kristian thought that it would be good to present a play like ours, which had traditional Indian elements like Hari Katha and Bharatanatyam, along with lots of music, at the festival.“
 
 The only Indian theatre group to be invited to the fest this year, the five-member team says that the reception to the play was nothing short of fantastic. “The best reaction that we got was from this well-known theatre critic there who couldn't stop praising it after our show. It's unfortunate that we didn't know the language to understand what he was saying,“ recalls  , actor and founder of Kriyative Theatre.
 
 
 
 
 Conceived and staged in Bengaluru in 2016, Where the Shadow Ends is a contemporary interpretation of the Ramayana.
 
 The play, according to Laxmi, is effective because it raises a lot of pertinent questions, not least about the way women have been treated down the ages. “Whether it's the veil in Islam, the chastity belt in Christianity or the sindoor in Hinduism, religion has always found ways to control a woman's sexuality. The play, through its protagonist Bhoomi, questions whether things have changed today -if the meaning of Lakshman Rekha, so to speak, has changed today,“ says Laxmi.
 
 “We have questioned Ramayana in this interpretation,“ says Veena. Using the play-within-aplay format, the narrative juxtaposes the life of fictional character Bhoomi with Sita and questions notions of duty, love, loyalty and patriarchy.
 
 For cast member Vinaychandra, the way the play treats women's issues struck a chord with the Serbian women as well. “Because I play a villainous character, I was worried about how they would receive our production, but the reaction from the female audience there was similar to how women in India responded to us. That's when I realized that stories and issues are universal,“ he says.
 
 Besides INFANT, Where the Shadow Ends was also part of the   Summer Festival (BELEF). The group also toured to the cities of Zrenjanin, Nis and Leskovac. About the overall experience, Veena says, “We got great support from the Indian embassy in Serbia, but I think the Indian government and agencies need to do a lot more to promote small theatreperformance groups like ours internationally . It's important to show the world that there's a lot happening in the Indian contemporary performance arts field.“
 
