HYDERABAD: Chief Minister  's announcement clarifying that the   will not come up at the Parade Grounds in Secunderabad has brought relief to many who have been rallying to protect the lung space.One of the largest open spaces in the Secunderabad region, the ground is used by hundreds of walkers and cricket enthusiasts on a daily basis. In addition to forming a human chain around the ground and running a signature campaign to mark their protest, walkers and residents of the cantonment area had also distributed bands with the message `Save Parade Ground', among themselves, on Wednesday .

 “The chief minister's clarification, on whether or not the Secretariat will be built on the Parade Grounds has definitely come as a relief. While the grounds is used by residents of the area and morning and evening walkers and sports enthusiasts, the   Grounds--where the CM has proposed to construct the Secretariat building witnesses no civilian movement and is mostly restricted to   use,“ said Sunanda Reddy , a resident of West Marredpally who has been a walker at the park for 10 years.
 
 A few residents however raised concerns about the shift of all state-government related activity to the Secunderabad area. “After six days of protest, we are happy that the historical Parade Grounds ha ve been saved. We will carry out a cycle rally at the grounds tomorrow to convey the message that the Parade Grounds have been saved. However, residents of the area are still concerned about the secretariat being located here. The peace at the cantonment area will be disturbed in addition to the abundant green cover near the Bison Polo ground,“ said Krishank Manne, a resident of the cantonment area who has been spearheading the protests.
 
 MA Khan, a resident of Kakaguda area also raised similar concerns.
 
 “If the secretariat is shif ted to the cantonment area, the traffic volume here will increase multi-fold and present traffic chaos will also worsen with constant road restrictions due to VIP movement,“ said Khan.
 
 Many residents are still seeking clarity on which ground the state government has sought to build the secretariat.
 
 “I have been protesting to save all the three grounds.While the CM has made it clear that the Parade Grounds will not be affected, there has been no talk about the Gymkhana ground--where I regularly practice,“ said cricketer Kalyan Sandeep.
 
