NAGPUR: The waiting time for Bharatgas cylinder refill in city has jumped from 48 hours to over two weeks because of a   at company’s Butibori bottling plant since Feb 3.   (BPCL) officials say though the supply resumed a few days ago, it would still take at least a week to ten days before the backlog is cleared. Distributors claimed that for the last two weeks, cylinder supply in district had fallen 70%.

 Nandkumar Raipure, office bearer of   and a BPCL distributor said, “Earlier in the month the situation was tight as even I was getting just one load (approx 300 cylinders) though the requirement was for three. This led to waiting list growing long, but since last week supply to distributors has been adequate.” 
 
 With 2.4 lakh consumers in Nagpur district, it will be some more time before things return to normal. Ajay Bhagat, territory manager at BPCL, said, “Since a few shipments of LPG tankers did not arrive at the bottling plant, we were unable to supply the required quantity but we can assure all consumers that things will be normal very soon. Normal supply of gas at our plant has resumed and we are working at full capacity for benefit of our consumers.”
 
 Staff at the plant has gone the extra mile by choosing to forgo their weekly offs. BPCL’s Butibori plant has a capacity of 10,000 cylinders per day and as of now has used up all of the reserve gas storage.
 
 Bhagat said that supply problem originated from BPCL’s loading/import locations and had affected many states. “Nagpur district being the farthest point under western region’s jurisdiction, the problem was a bit more. We sent a mass SMS to our consumers seeking their cooperation and patience because the reasons for delay were beyond our control. Even today, I am in Buldhana gauging the backlog and calculating how soon we can clear it,” said Bhagat. 
 
 Another distributor, who did not want to be named, said “When situation was normal we were consistently delivering cylinders in city within 24-hours of booking. Only in extreme cases did it spill over to another day. Compared to that, the current situation is bad but the company is releasing more loads nowadays.”
 
