CHENNAI:   committed by a   who wrongly framed charges and awarded   to seven persons, Madras high court freed all of them, and also asked the sessions judge to undergo ‘judicial training’ at the state judicial academy.

 A division bench of Justice S Nagamuthu and Justice N Authinathan also warned subordinate judicial officers that it would recommend action against them in case of such dereliction of duty. “We are pained to caution judicial officers that in future, if we come across any such dereliction, we may have to recommend appropriate departmental action against such officers when their service comes up for review, under service rules at the age of 50 and 55, and when it comes up for extension at the age of 58. We regret to make these harsh remarks.”
 
 The matter relates to a judgment delivered by Bharanidharan, first additional sessions judge at Tindivanam on April 5, 2016, in a case involving a total of 50 accused. While seven of them were convicted and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life, many others were sentenced to suffer lesser jail terms for offences such as rioting, causing injury with weapons, etc.
 
 However, after perusing the materials, the judges were shocked to find that life sentences had been awarded though witness depositions were artificial and not backed by clinching evidence. In the case of one person, the court had convicted him for causing grievous hurt with dangerous weapons, though such a charge was not at all laid against him. In effect, he had been punished though there was no charge against him. 
 
 While narrating the murder sequence, the judges pointed out that the prosecution witnesses had said each of the 50 accused caused one single blow to the victim, killing him. “This narration of events by the eyewitnesses is highly dramatic and artificial,” the judges said. 
 
 As for the   sessions of Bharanidharan, the bench said it had been informed that the judge had completed the judicial training as mandated by the court and added, “We believe that at least now he would have learnt his judicial responsibilities.”
 
 
