After taking charge as the  , one of Praveen Sood’s priorities was to ensure the safety of citizens, for which he mooted widening CCTV coverage across the city. But with a chunk of the city, especially newer residential layouts in the fringes of Bengaluru, in darkness owing to a complete lack of  , the exercise will be nothing but futile if the cameras are not able to capture acts of crime. Often, pedestrians rely on the passing beams of vehicle headlights, while the cover of dark tends to work to the benefit of criminals, who cannot be identified by victims. 
Praveen agrees and adds, “The Home Secretary had convened a meeting that representatives from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagare Palike (BBMP) and I had attended, at which I highlighted that even if I put up another 1,000 cameras, it won’t serve the purpose if there are no steetlights. The camera won’t capture any reliable footage that can help cops solve nighttime crimes. Insufficient street lighting is a big issue that the   needs to address.”
 Speaking to us, BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad said that illuminating all areas under his jurisdiction is top priority. “There are about 4,80,000 street lamps under our care, the maintenance of which has been tendered out. We are, however, unhappy with the way the contractors have been functioning and have been receiving a lot of complaints. The problem is that contractors used to bag the tender by quoting well under the scheduled rate. And even though the tender requirement is that any burnt-out bulb has to be replaced within 48 hours, that has not been happening. We figured that changing bulbs as and when it burns out is not the solution. So, what the BBMP has thought of is that in the next 15 days, we will announce a tender to change all the existing fluorescent lights to LED bulbs. Around 5 lakh bulbs will be changed in a year’s time. The entire exercise will be contracted to a private agency, on whom the onus of investment and maintenance for the next 10 years falls. The bidding parameter, however, will not only be for the initial investment. Every year, BBMP has been paying around `144 crore towards electricity charges for streetlights and, say, another `50 crore on maintenance of these lights. Once you convert the existing lights to LED bulbs, the electricity consumption and cost goes down by at least 50%, and you save at least `72 crore. How much of that can be shared with the BBMP will be another factor that determines the tender,” says the BBMP Commissioner, adding that the private agency will also install WiFi facilities on streetlight poles, as well as CCTV cameras depending on police requirement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
