MUMBAI: Raghav Gupta left his cushy job as director of private banking at Citi to join   as a managing partner in August last year. He now advises wealthy clients, some of them twenty-something startup founders who became multimillionaires overnight by selling their companies, on investing their money wisely. For the Mumbai-based boutique   firm that manages about Rs 35,000 crore of some 700 families, business has been robust, growing 35-40% year-on-year.
 
  With a slowdown in hiring in  , equities and debt, bankers are jumping boats to become wealth managers where crore-plus salaries and rewards like luxury cars are awaiting the best. Private bankers are in demand at companies like ASK Wealth, as the list of India's multimillionaires grows at a fast clip and the newly rich shop for professional help to manage their wealth.
  
  "The wealth management market is like the cell phone market today. So much underpenetration and such humongous possibilities," said Gupta. "There are more and more multibillionaires giving mandates to specialists than to general divisions of banks and they are looking for much more sophisticated solutions where boutique firms can fill in the void," he added.
  
  According to data and estimates from headhunters, domestic wealth management institutions are looking to hire more than 500 private bankers to advise clients in the next nine months to one year.
  
 
  Among the wealth management firms that are hiring or recently hired are IIFL, Edelweiss, Avendus and ASK Wealth, headhunters said.
  
  Young entrepreneurs who made millions by cashing out their startups are a rather new addition to the client list of wealth managers as they look to reinvest their newfound wealth. They want specialised and sophisticated wealth management solutions such as philanthropy, and seek advice on succession planning, taxation, trust planning and everything they invest in.
  
  
 
  "These neo rich want professional firms like ours to help them network, find solutions to invest in other startups as seed or angel investors, to help them professionalise their family offices and also look for innovative, customised solutions that offer better options that suit their appetite for investment," said  , chief executive at Avendus Wealth Management. Avendus' wealth management business manages $2 billion of assets. It is looking to add people in next six months to one year.
  
  The emergence of wealth management business in India has redefined the banking paradigm where investment banking is no more as rewarding, headhunters said.
  
  The private bankers who join the wealth management firms are paid Rs 1-2 crore a year as the base package, and they also earn around 28-30% of the revenue generated as commissions. That's not all. For instance, a top domestic wealth management company recently rewarded top performers with BMW cars.
  
  "While mainstream business like investment banking, institutional equities are seeing a shrinkage in demand for talent for domestic financial institutions, we are witnessing a surge in demand for top quality private banking talent at senior levels," said Naveen Tiwari, who heads private and wealth management hiring at executive search firm  , and was himself a former private banker.
  
  
 
  Some of the marquee movements at the director level over the past one year include Brijesh Dheman and Puneet Arora, who joined Avendus Wealth Management from Client Associates; Raghav Gupta and Prakash Bulusu of ASK Wealth who moved in from Citi; and Shajikumar Devakar who joined IIFL.
  
  "We are in a continuous mode of hiring and are looking to add more people to our team this year," said Yatin Shah, executive director at  . IIFL Wealth manages about Rs 1.25 lakh crore of AUM and has a team of 700 people in eight countries.
  
  The spurt in demand for wealth managers is also prompted by huge wealth creation by traditional investors. 
