New Delhi: If people suffer due to waterlogging during monsoon,   officials will face the music. Even principal secretary Ashwani Kumar will be held accountable for lapses, if any, said deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Friday.

 CM Arvind Kejriwal has made chief secretary M M Kutty in-charge of monitoring the monsoon-related preparations. He has also drawn up an action plan on how to fix accountability of officials responsible for desilting and cleaning of drains.
 
 PWD has been directed to prepare a consolidated list of vulnerable points by June 7 and seal the gaps to prevent waterlogging in these areas. “The list will be drawn on the basis of ground checks and public feedback. PWD will bring out an advertisement, calling upon the public to share details of trouble spots. The list of vulnerable points will be put up on the government’s website for the benefit of people,” Sisodia said.
 
 He reiterated what PWD minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that a helpline would be made functional by June 15.
 
 Sisodia said that Kejriwal had directed Ashwani Kumar, who is currently heading PWD, to carry out inspections of all major drains to see if desilting and cleaning has been done. “The PWD secretary will be held accountable for any delay in preparations,” he added. 
 
 Waterlogging is a major problem in the monsoon, which leads to traffic jams. It is also a reason behind the spread of various diseases. This time, the Delhi government is looking at fixing the gaps. “If any waterlogging is reported from any road, PWD secretary will be answerable,” Sisodia stressed. He added that PWD’s officer in-charge of a specific area will be held accountable for complaints received from residents of the area.
 
 “The CM too will be out on inspections during monsoon. We will evolve a mechanism to get public feedback to know where waterlogging is happening,” Sisodia said, adding that there was a need to make even corporation officials accountable. “The LG on May 12 set up a committee of officials from corporations and the Delhi government chaired by the PWD secretary to ensure that preparations for monsoon are in place. I wish the PWD secretary will ensure that accountability of MCD and NDMC officials is fixed as well,” Sisodia said. 
 
 
