TRICHY: A compensation of at least Rs 25,000 per acre, solatium of Rs 10 lakh to the relatives of every farmer who died due to crop loss and constitution of   were the major demands put forward by farmers to the Central team which surveyed Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Karur districts for   conditions on Tuesday.

 The team split into four groups with each visiting paddy fields across the districts and assessing the ground reality. They listened to the farmers who explained about the volume of crop loss and sought early disbursal of compensation. The team headed by  , managing director,  , first visited Thanjavur district and inspected the fields along with K Satyagopal, principal secretary, district collector A Annadurai and other officials from revenue and agriculture department. Next they checked out Kovilpathu village in Boothalur taluk, Pudupattinam in Thanjavur, Mela Uloor in Orathanadu taluk and Sokkanavur in Pattukottai taluk. 
 
 Farmers and agriculture labourers waiting at various spots with withered crops showed them to the team members and appealed for due compensation in time. Since the farmers had spent at least Rs 30,000 per acre, they wanted the government to sanction at least Rs 25,000 per acre to offset their loss. 
 
 “Since constitution of Cauvery Management Board is the only solution for us to get our due share of water from neighbouring states, the union government should act swiftly and constitute the board as per the Supreme Court’s direction”, members of the farmers body stressed to the team members. 
 
 In Nagapattinam, out of the normal coverage of 3.36 lakh acres, farmers had taken up paddy on 3.25 lakh acres due to water shortage, the officials explained to the team members. They visited Neermulai in Thalaignayiru taluk, Karugkanni and Thiruvaimoor villages in Keezhaiyur, Paalaiyur in Nagai taluk and Kazhiappanallur in Sembanarkoil taluk.
 
 In Neermulai, the team witnessed a photo exhibition depicting the drought condition prevailing across the district along with team members Smithkumar, Deenanath, adviser, finance department, and district collector S Palanisamy.
 
 In Tiruvarur district, the team visited Perugavazhnthan in Kottur taluk, Vadakadu village in Muthupettai, Uppur in Kovilur and Pamani in Thiruthuraipoondi. Collector L Nirmalraj also accompanied the team.
 
 Another team headed by Dheeraj Kumar, managing director, TWAD Board, visited various villages in Karur district along with Mohanraj Vijay, director (Agriculture Extension and Drought Management) in  , and Santhosh, assistant adviser, department of health. They met distressed farmers at Sengal village in Krishnarayapuram, Kaniyalampatti in Kadavur and Vellianai in Thanthoni taluk. 
 
