GORAKHPUR: Chief minister   said here on Saturday that no action would be taken against slaughterhouses which are being run on valid licences. 

 Speaking at a public function for the first time after becoming the CM, he said that his government was just following the orders of National Green Tribunal to regulate slaughterhouses which are not following environmental norms. 
 
 “NGT (National Green Tribunal) has been asking to deal with unhygienic conditions and filth in the state. Those butcher houses that are illegal and spread filth on roads and pollution in environment will be closed,” he said. 
 
 Thanking 22 crore people of UP at a felicitation ceremony in his Lok Sabha constituency, Yogi said that on the insistence of ‘world’s most popular politician’ Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief  , he has got the chance to form a government which will ensure welfare of every citizen of the state. 
 
 “We will ensure welfare and development without any discrimination in the name of caste, group, religion or gender. ‘Sabka vikas hoga, lekin tushtikaran kisi ki nahin hogi’ (Development of all, but appeasement of none,” he said amid a thunderous applause at MP Inter College ground in the city. Yogi started his address with Vande Matram and ended with Jai Sri Ram.
 
 “We need to make the dream of development come true. The issue of sugarcane mills will be resolved and wheat will be purchased at support price. I have asked to purchase all the wheat from farmers at support price and payment will reach directly in account of the farmers,” he said.
 
 Talking about the anti-Romeo squads set up by his government, he said: “After becoming CM, a large number of women called me and I gave them an assurance of safety and security. Any girl could walk safely on road even late in the night... we have to ensure this in the state. I have openly said that no couple will be held if they are moving or sitting with mutual understanding, but those who irritate girls and women and harass won’t be spared.” Yogi said.
 
 He also clarified that no new rules were being made. “We have not made any new rule. We are only implementing the promises of election manifesto. I assure you that the promises will be implemented word by word.”
 
 “Don’t show your gratitude towards me as I’m a man from Gorakhpur, I struggled here with you and people of   are my biggest strength. 
 
 The post of CM is a responsibility on me which PM Modi has given. PM Modi laid the foundation stone of AIIMS and fertilizer plant and that was the foundation stone of development in the area. Earlier I was struggling for the development of Gorakhpur and Purvanchal, but now the responsibility is to ensure law and development in the state and I expect your cooperation into this,” he said.
 
 
