BATHINDA: Demanding their inclusion in the agri-debt waiver scheme of Punjab government, farm labourer organisations on Sunday released a report of survey conducted in the last two months of 1,618 families in 13 villages of six districts. 

 As per the survey based on 1,364 such families, 84% of farm workers are under debt. Debt per family works out at Rs 91,437 against its annual income of Rs 56,000. The total debt of these families has been calculated at Rs 12.47 crore.
 
 The Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union ( ) pointed out that as per the data collected by Punjab Agriculture University, of the nearly 35 lakh families of 13,000 villages, nearly 20 lakh families are of farmers and nearly 15 lakh are of farm labourers. 
 
 The PKMU conducted a survey of two villages each in Bathinda, Muktsar, Moga, Sangrur, Jalandhar and of three in Faridkot. 
 
 One of these villages was chosen near a town and another away from it. State president of the union Jora Singh Nasrali and general secretary   said that, “During the door-to-door survey it came to light that the new mechanised model of agriculture has rendered farm labourers almost jobless as they get very few working days and this model has also badly affected their health. These two factors are increasing debt of labourers.” 
 
 Prof Sukhpal Singh, head of economics and sociology department, Punjab Agriculture University, agricultural scientist Devinder Sharma, and professor Anupama of  , Patiala, who participated in the event organised to release survey report at the Teachers’ Home here on Sunday said that, “Decrease in size of agricultural land and in income of agriculture, snatching of employment avenues from labourers due to mechanised model of agriculture, wrong policies of loans and irrational rate of interest being charged are main reasons for debt on farm labourers, which forces them to commit suicide.” 
 
 As per a survey conducted by Punjabi University from 2000 to 2016 in seven districts of Punjab, farm labourers are more prone to suicides due to debt than farmers. The report has made it clear that 893 farm labourers committed suicide during this period as compared to 789 farmers in the seven districts.
 
  In the earlier exhaustive survey conducted by three universities of Punjab from 2000 to 2010, a total of 6,926 farm hands committed suicide, of which 3,954(57%) were farmers and 2,972(43%)were farm labourers.
 
 Prof Sukhpal Singh lamented that with privatization in the sphere of education and health, agri-labourers have been badly hit. He suggested cooperative ownership of land. 
 
 Arpana from economics department of Punjabi University said that the survey tears apart the rosy picture of so-called progressive Punjab. Noting the landlessness as an important reason for indebtedness, she supported the demand for land reforms. She also demanded soft loans from banks for agriculture and bringing out a law to regulate loans by commission agents and money lenders. 
 
 Davinder Sharma, an expert on farmers’ issues, said that it was tragic that Punjab government was expressing total ignorance about debt problems of agri-labourers, who constitute a large chunk of farming community. 
 
