It was on May 21 that   won the   Champion pinning Randy Orton thus becoming the 50th WWE Champion and only the second Indian origin pro-wrestler to hold a title in WWE after The Great Khali. 

 Mahal's stocks continued to rise and he went on to defeat the 13-time World Champion Orton for the WWE Champion at WWE SmackDown Live exclusive pay-per-view WWE Money in the Bank in Orton’s hometown of St Louis, Missouri. Flanked by the Singh brothers – Sunil and Samir – Mahal has proven to be a dominant force in the WWE and his reign as WWE Champion has been nothing less than entertaining. 
 
 Speaking to TOI Sports Mahal said,"Thank you for congratulating me on the landmark of 50 days, it’s a great feeling. And honestly I plan on being champion for a lot longer than 50 days. I plan on being one of the longest reigning champions, in fact the longest reigning champion of all time. I am also going to beat John Cena’s record of being 17 time world champion. That’s my goal, and I am just entering my prime and I got a long career ahead of me and I look forward to this being the greatest title run in history.” 
 
 From his Punjabi style celebrations two weeks after winning the title to announcing his stipulation – The Punjabi Prsion match at WWE Battleground – Mahal has helped keep up the fight of the blue brand with Monday Night RAW. 
 
 We recap top five moments so far from Mahal’s reign as the 50th WWE Champion, which a right now stands at 50 plus days and is already longer than title reigns of quite a few WWE greats like Kane, Rey Mysterio, Buddy Rogers and current superstars like Bray Wyatt and Jeff Hardy. 
 
 
 
 
 Jinder celebrated his historic championship win in true championship style with a grand Punjabi celebration which included a whole troupe of Punjabi musicians and dancers.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 This absolutely jaw dropping entrance worthy of a Champion
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 This iconic moment when two top superstars faced each other, this time for the WWE Championship.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Jinder Mahal defeated Randy Orton for the second time. But this time he did it in Randy’s hometown of St .Louis, Missouri at WWE Money In The Bank.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Jinder took on a worthy adversary in the form of Luke Harper on the 20th of June edition of Smackdown Live. Jinder managed to defeat Luke Harper despite the looming threat of Mr. Money in the Bank, Baron Corbin.
 
  
  
 
 
