NAGPUR: North Nagpur and some parts of   assembly segments have an inherent unpredictability when it comes to civic body polls. This segment has always been a battleground for Congress and   to attract Dalit votes.

 North Nagpur has a predominant scheduled caste population and provides a distinct edge to the dalit parties over any other political outfit. This is the key reason why the BSP is an eyesore for other parties in the NMC elections. Senior BSP corporator Gautam Patil said the party will be contesting all the 151 seats in the ensuing civic polls.
 
 The party had four corporators in the 2007 polls and increased its strength in the 2012 elections to 12. In 2012, the BSP got more votes than the Congress and secured seats in both North and South-West assembly constituency. Of the 12 corporators, its candidates got elected in 11 wards in North Nagpur out of the 24 wards there.
 
 The party has decided not to give ticket to its sitting corporator Kishore Gajbhiye who had rebelled and joined the Congress. The electoral prospects of the North Nagpur constituency have always been crucial for every party including the BJP and the Congress.
 
 With the party’s theme ‘Jiski Jitni Sankhya Bhari, Uski Utni Bhagidari’ (More the numbers, greater the share), Patil said that this year the party will give tickets to candidates of all castes including Brahmins, OBCs and Telis. The party is leaving no stone unturned to encash not only dalit votes from the 24 wards of North Nagpur assembly constituency but also across the city.
 
 Patil said the decision of Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, BJP and Shiv Sena to go it alone in the civic polls will be an added advantage for the BSP. Shiv Sena, which had eight corporators in 2007, came down to six in the last elections. Similarly, NCP’s numbers came down from eight in 2007 to six in 2012. Patil said the division of votes will ensure the BSP will march to victory in the NMC.
 
 “Earlier, we expected 40 seats of 151. But now, given the infighting among all the big parties, we now expect to improve our position and hope to win at least 80 seats,” he said.
 
 However, other smaller political parties like BRM, BRP and RPI may play spoilsport for BSP.
 
