PATNA: It was a proud moment for the women in the state when 27 of them joined the   department in 2015 for the first time ever. Trained for active duty, they have proved to be an added advantage to the force, especially in creating awareness and organising mock drills. 

 The women firefighters completed their training from   training centre in December 2016 before joining their duties. As of now, Patna has five women firefighters in   fire station and two each in   and Patna secretariat. The rest have been divided into groups of two and assigned duties in different districts of the state. 
 
 One of them, Seema Kumari, is happy to serve the society in a work which was till recently restricted to men folk. “We perform active duty and receive emergency calls before communicating the location through wireless. In my experience, female victims are often hesitant to take help from male firefighters. But with us in the team, that is no longer a problem,” she said. 
 
 Another woman firefighter posted in Lodhipur fire station, who did not want to be named, prefers giving mock drills and creating awareness as she believes that is the most important step in countering fire accidents. The 23-year-old is soon to be married, but is ready to shoulder her family responsibilities along with her passion. 
 
 Rohini Kumari and Akansha Raj are also ready for challenges that may come their way. “There are three units. We can be assigned to any one of them every day at 6:30am. If we are in the first one and a fire breaks out, then we have to visit the spot. We generally handle emergency calls,” said Rohini. 
 
 “In the last few months, I have been on active duty nearly 20 times. I recently responded to a fire call near   road and went to the spot. We have been assigned to carry out mock drills to create awareness all through summer as this is the time most of the fire accidents happen,” said 27-year-old Nitu Kumari. 
 
 Director general of Bihar Fire Service and Home Guard department P N Rai said women firefighters have proved an asset so far. “There are many aspects of firefighting. Educating the community and cognizance is an integral part of firefighting. They can reach out to women and educate them about fire safety and protocols. In the case of houses, major cause of fire is short circuit. Teaching women of the house about these safety measures will prove beneficial,” he added. 
 
