Untouched by the heat and dust of elections, a  , founded by former PM  , has quietly taken on a ‘political’ responsibility: To spread his ideals among children. 

  Almost 10 years after former   Chandra Shekhar’s death when netas have allowed his legacy to dwindle in his hometown Ballia, Devasthaly   conducts a ‘Chandra Shekhar Excellency Exam', started four years ago. The annual exam is open for all Ballia students from class VI to XII.
 
  Those scoring above 85% win free education for an entire year, a certificate of excellence to boot. The syllabus is based on the former PM’s biography, his ideals, speeches and socialist principles. The college’s principal PC Shrivastava told TOI, “Isn’t it sad children of Ballia don’t know much about Chandra Shekharji, the son of Ballia who was India’s eighth PM? He did so much for Ballia but none seems to be nurturing his ideals. Our initiative is to make students aware of political history and Chandra Shekhar’s contribution.”
 
  The exam is optional but has become a popular contest among students --- the prospect of free English medium education in this reputed college has huge appeal.
 
  Aman Srivastava, a Class X student said the exam is held in two parts. At the first level, students must score minimum 60% to go to the next level. This first paper is based on the socialist’s life, principles and political career. “We have to get above 85% at the second level to get free education,” says Aman. The college is affiliated to CBSE board. Every year, around 1,200-1,500 children enrol for the exam; around 500 win free education up to class XII, the funds met by the college’s management.
 
 The college has plans to add a syllabus for teachers to apprise them as well on the principles and life of Chandra Shekhar. Srivastava said, “We’re also making a museum on Chandra Shekhar’s involvement with this college and his passion to give the children of Ballia a meaningful education. The museum will have his autographs, books, photos with the alumni members, his belongings.”
 
 
