BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagare Palike’s ( ) decision to widen the 1.75km stretch of Hennur Road between Bangalore East railway station and   (ORR) hasn’t gone down well with residents living along the stretch. They say the proposal is shortsighted and ill-planned.

 “We measured the width of the road and it is already 18 metres, which is nearly 60ft. On the other hand,   is only 10-11 metres wide. Because of this bottleneck, traffic builds up at the base of and on top of the flyover. Widening the road will only push the bottleneck to a different place,” said Rohan Kamath, a resident. 
 
 According to a preliminary BBMP notification dated July 14, the apartment complex where Rohan lives will lose 30.52sqm of land. In all, portions of 130-odd properties are proposed to be acquired and land owners have been asked to come to the BBMP office with required documents. Palike officials said the BDA will issue a preliminary notification calling for objections.
 
 “Most of the houses and buildings in this area are decades old and residents too are largely senior citizens. If the authorities decide to go ahead with the plan, where are these people expected to go,” asked Rohan.
 
 Residents say a similar plan, floated in 2004, was eventually shelved, following stiff opposition from them. 
 
 “In many cases, the land to be acquired is near the basement parking entrance. Once this happens, there won’t be enough space for cars to enter the basement. Also, fire tenders won’t be able to enter the premises,” said another resident.
 
  and her husband have been living in their house on   for 34 years. If the road is widened, they stand to lose almost 24sqm of the plot. “We’d lose more than half our living room space. In many cases they demolish buildings, but don’t end up building or widening the road,” said Radha.
 
 Her son-in-law, Pradeep Narayanan, said he’d soon file an RTI to find out the basis on which the notification was issued. 
 
 “We need to know if the notification was released after proper research. Authorities must consult the public, especially before taking decisions such as these,” he said.
 
