KOLHAPUR: The district administration has decided to start strict enforcement of the   (PCPNDT) Act to improve conviction rate. 

 Kolhapur was identified as one of the ten districts that had sex ratio at birth lower than the state average. In the last decade, the administration has filed seven cases of violation of the Act, but only three resulted in convictions. Better implementation of the Act would ensure that those involved in sex determination are brought to book, officials said. 
 
 Recently, the district health administration filed case against two persons from Kagal for allegedly running an illegal diagnostic centre to detect the sex of the foetus. The officials believe that they have adequate evidence in this case.
 
 District civil surgeon L S Patil said, “The conviction rate in PCPNDT cases is rather satisfactory here compared to the record of other districts. However, strict implementation will help improve the conviction rate.” 
 
 He added that they have appealed against the acquittals in seven cases filed under the  . In addition, the sonography machines from the centres that have been shut down will be disposed of soon. The food and drugs administration department has been asked to keep a check on medical shops that may be dispensing abortion pills.
 
 The PCPNDT Act covers four types of health centres - ultrasound sonography centres, genetic counselling centres, genetic laboratories and genetic clinics and imaging centres. So far, only centres with ultrasound machines were required to register themselves under the Act. However, as   carry out artificial fertilization under the Act, they too have been told to get registered. 
 
 District collector   has directed the health officials to initiate special campaigns under Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao scheme of the Union government.
 
 “Nirbhaya squad of the police will be deployed for the activities under the campaigning at all levels. The training sessions of the local health workers will be carried out to ensure that the awareness programme is carried out effectively,” said Patil.
 
