It’s quite common to see proud pet   taking their   for a walk everyday. The happiness that pets spread is, after all, contagious. But of late, animal activists and shelter house owners are crying foul, as cases of   are on the rise. Priyanshu Jain, a city-based animal activist says, “We get over three calls in a month from people informing us about good breed pets with collars found abandoned in the streets, hunting for food. In some cases the pets are too young to adjust to the new environment or too old and ill to survive. In last six months, we have rescued a Shepherd,  , a few Labradors, two Saint  , a four-month-old Pomeranian and a few mixed breed dogs. They were left to starve on the streets at the mercy of infections and illegal breeders.”

 
 
 
 Henna Dey, who runs an NGO, Aware, says that they found more than 10 dogs abandoned in the last six months. “They were abandoned because of some illness or an accident. Some of them didn’t make it even after treatment, because of depression of being thrown away after being pampered in a home. One or two didn’t have the desire to live. Most of these pets are found on the highways,” she says, adding, “People buy Labradors and Pomeranians because of their affordability without knowing about the needs and requirements of the breed. If the dog sheds too much hair or scratches someone they abandon it.”
 The lack of awareness about the needs, requirements of different   and failing to understand dog behaviour compels some owners to abandon their pets. Rishika Kothari, a city-based dog trainer and activist shares, “Training comes into play for understanding the behaviour of the dog. It has become more like a rat race that every third household is wanting to own a pet. Boys want to gift pups to their girlfriends. And breeders come up with stories to sell their dogs, without ensuring that owners are aware of the temperament and requirements of the breed. Recently, the   passed a law according to which the birth certificate and the death certificate of the dogs would be made compulsory. This will help keep a record if the dog goes missing. With cases of abandoned dogs rising in Indore, this should be implemented soon.”
 
 
 
 
 After activists rescue and treat these pets, they are up usually for adoption. Shailendra Singh Chauhan, a dog activist says, “There is a significant change in the behaviour of an abandoned pet. They lose faith in people and stay aloof or become aggressive. Their trust needs to be won back again. When someone comes to adopt the dog, an interview of the entire family is done to check the consent of each member. A pre house check is done and then we allow people to keep the pet for a week to see if it adjusts. A proper legal form is filled thereafter and the owners promise to take complete responsibility of it. Even after this, we conduct random house inspections to see if the pet is being treated properly or not.”
 
 
 
 
 Priyanshu Jain adds that they even get calls from people who can no longer look after their pets. “We get calls from neighbours saying that pets in their colony are being treated badly. In such cases, we talk to the owners and rescue the pets with the help of the police. With greater income and easy availability of dogs and cats in the market, the number of dogs being bought as pets has increased. When the pup grows, it requires a lot of attention and can be expensive to look after. That’s when some people realise they have taken up too much responsibility.”
