Cleared/Madan

 Coimbatore: At a time when many farmers are shifting to other professions due to continuous drought and other factors, youngsters passing out of school are increasingly pursuing agriculture for higher   to learn fresh techniques of farming. 
 
 The number of applications for agriculture and allied courses at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is constantly on the rise. Last year, 39,772 applications were received, and this year the university has received 39,491. With 10 more days left for the closing date, the university expects to receive nearly 45,000 applications. 
 
 This is significantly higher than the number of applicants for some of the most sought-after professional courses in the country. The number of applicants is nearly 150 times the number of seats on offer (2,820). 
 
 Professor of agriculture at TNAU R Krishnan said nearly 50% applicants opting for BSc agriculture hail from agricultural families. “In many cases we see that the students take up the course only to solve some of the problems their parents, who did not have the opportunity to go to college, had faced in the profession. Some of them go on to pursue higher studies or take up entrepreneurship in the field of agriculture,” he said. 
 
 There is also a section of students who aims to join state or central government services. “Nearly 10% candidates join agriculture to pursue UPSC ,” Krishnan added. “On the other hand, agriculture also provides many research opportunities,” he said. 
 
 Besides academics, farmers too say that youth are increasingly getting attracted to agriculture. President of the Farmers Association (non-political), Coimbatore, C Thangaraj said, “We did not have even a single a youth (below 30 years) five years ago. Today, at least 15% of the 5,000-odd people in the association are youth.” Thangaraj said the association plans to set up a youth wing. “For the first time, the youth of the association will be organising the World Farmers Day,” he said. 
 
 Some young people who recently began practising agriculture say organic farming and other new types of farming techniques have motivated them to take up the profession. “I started along with my friends in 2012 to pursue organic farming. At that time, there was not much demand. Today, there are many youngsters who I see are practising organic farming,” said 32-year-old Azarudeen T, who quit his media job and took up agriculture. 
 
 Krishnan said other farming options like soilless farming, hydroponic farming and organic farming are also reasons for the increase in the number of applicants. 
 
 
