MANGALURU: World Bank Task Team Leader Shashank Ojha said a green growth approach is essential for the implementation of  . 
He was making a presentation on ‘Karnataka – Smart Cities PAN City ICT Solutions’ at the opening of two-day workshop on ‘Smart Cities Mission – Karnataka:   for ICT Solutions’ held under the aegis of Government of Karnataka and Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) here on Friday. 
 
 Ojha said that the nation is witnessing a reverse trend in agricultural development with more people from rural areas prefer migrating to urban areas in search of green pastures. “There are several environmental challenges including the Green House Gas Effect in addition to air pollution and increase in the global temperature that have direct impact on human health. While development at the cost of human health is a major concern, moving towards a sustainable smart city is a solution,” he suggested. 
 
 He said that the Indian Economy is moving very fast with World Bank supporting several projects and the government of India introducing various schemes. 
 
 “Each city has its own challenges and set of strengths. We have to develop strategy for Smart City based on the strengths weaknesses of that particular city. If a city’s strength is education, build that city based on that strength. Find strengths and weaknesses of a city with the participation of stakeholders,” Ojha said and pointed out that an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism is necessary during the implementation of  . 
 
 “Monitoring is necessary in each stage and evaluation should be made how effective the system is. We need to monitor very carefully how drinking water is being distributed, whether all people have access to it and are there complaints about it. To develop and manage an effective  , we need structured strategy approach coupled with tech solutions, financial modules, capacity building and organization,” he added. 
 
 In his inaugural address, Roshan Baig, minister for urban development and Haj, said the Smart City concept is to develop a sustainable urban environment through state of the art technology. In five years, starting from 2015-16, the city will receive Rs 100 each per year from the state and central governments to take up development works to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore, he said. 
 
 “There is a need for behavioral change among officials and people’s representatives for the successful implementation of Smart City programme. Elected representatives should identify the needs of the city and work to make it reality. Officials and elected representatives should study in detail what the city and citizens need,” he advised. 
 
 
