NEW DELHI:   aren’t easy areas for people trying to reach them. A   carried out by   clearly established this, boosting the view that accessibility to public buildings necessitates the improvement of surrounding road infrastructure too.

 The CSIR-CRRI study, completed in March, found that Metro stations were not easy for use due to the bad condition of footpaths, their faulty design, poor illumination and conflict areas between pedestrian and motorised users.
 
 After a six-month study of the seven Delhi Metro stations at Mayur Vihar Phase 1, Hauz Khas, Dwarka Mor, Nehru Place, Kirti Nagar, Moolchand and Rohini West, the researchers created the   (PAI) based on public feedback on ease of accessing the stations and analyses of the road infrastructure around the stations.
 
 Dwarka Mor station scored a high PAI of 84.22, but others were all marked at below 60, indicating low accessibility. “While stations were often disabled- or pedestrian-friendly, the approach to them was not,” noted Dr Mukti Advani, senior scientist, CSIR-CRRI. “There are too many hurdles for pedestrians.”
 
 Transport experts and disabled rights activists have long demanded easier road infrastructure to encourage people to walk, cycle and use non-motorised vehicles. Unfortunately, despite laws and guidelines in place, experts say, accessibility has not been a priority for government agencies. 
 
 “The law makes its mandatory to provide infrastructure that is accessible to all, but seriousness of purpose is missing,” rued Javed Abidi, honorary director, National Centre for Promotion of Employment of Disabled People.
 
 The revised National Building Code and the Indian Road Congress code provide detailed guidelines and designs for making roads and buildings universally accessible. “Supreme Court has passed an order making it mandatory for government agencies to provide universally accessible infrastructure,” said Anjlee Agarwal, founder and executive director of Samarthyam, an organisation promoting accessibility. “This makes the IRC code on universal accessibility for urban roads binding on government agencies.”
 
 The problem, experts claim, is the lack of enforcement, and, therefore, the need to sensitise lower-level government officials. Government departments responsible for creating civic infrastructure are not sensitive to the needs of people with disabilities and reduced mobility such as old people, families with children, pregnant women, people with temporary ailments, etc, said Agarwal.
 
 While Abidi said it would be fruitful to think of training officials and imposing penalties on defaulting contractors, Advani said: “An area of at least of 1km-radius around public hotspots should be made accessible and then more can be added gradually.”
 
