AHMEDABAD:   of the  , a former MP and accused in the murder of   activist  , has approached Gujarat high court requesting it to recall the order by which the it directed CID (crime) to take up the investigation of a case of rioting.

 Solanki urged the court to expunge the strictures against him in the order passed in February, in response to a petition by one Jetunben Salot of Kodinar town in Saurashtra.
 
  Solanki contended that the petition by Salot had oblique motive and the petitioners had misrepresented facts earlier. 
 
 The high court order and observations would be used by his opponents to get his bail cancelled, as an appeal for cancellation of his bail in the Jethava murder case is pending before the  .
 
 Solanki contended that besides the use of the HC order to cancel his bail, it could be used to influence the trial court, which is conducting proceedings in the Jethava murder case. He stated that this was the only way left for his opponents to influence the courts after many witnesses had been demolished in the trial. 
 
 He accused advocate Anand Yagnik of targeting him through various court proceedings.
 
 Taking exception at the HC observations on how the Gujarat government shields Solanki, he claimed innocence by stating that he was requested by cops to intervene and quell the rioting because he was the MP of the area. Solanki also claimed that the CD showing the rioting in Kodinar that the HC had watched was tampered with.
 
 Solanki also sought the recall of the HC order on the technical grounds that he was not party to proceedings in the petition filed by Salot.
 
 The HC may take up Solanki’s petition on Wednesday.
 
 Last month, while directing CID (crime) to file a fresh FIR and probe the case against Solanki, Justice J B Pardiwala lamented the state of affairs in the country because the police and administration “are always genuflecting before people in power”. After watching the video of the rioting, Justice J B Pardiwala wrote, “After watching the CD, I wondered for some time, whether I was a judge in the state of Gujarat or in any other state. The video speaks for itself.”
 
