BHOPAL: Power tariff in Madhya Pradesh is among the highest in the country and consumers are burdened year-on-year by hike more due to inefficient management of power distribution companies (discoms) and power generation company (genco).

 While the state power distribution companies have sought a 10% hike in tariff in in annual revenue requirement filed before the  , improving efficiency of state-run thermal power plants can go a long-way in bridging the revenue gap and improve coffers of the company.
 
 Thermal power plants in the state have an average performance rate or plant load factor (PLF) of below 40% and consume 20% excess fuel. This pushes up cost of generation which the discoms are trying to bridge with the proposed hike. So, for the mismanagement and inefficient functioning the consumer is required to shell out more.
 
 As the fuel cost of the power produced from our thermal power stations is much higher, distribution companies are forced to buy power from private producers at higher price.
 
 For example, average fuel cost of power produced by state-owned thermal power plants is around Rs 2.25 /unit and its fixed charges are below Re 1. But when it comes to private producers, the fuel charges are below Rs 2 but fixed charges are above Rs 3. As per norms, only fuel charges are considered when deciding the power purchase. Though state-owned thermal power stations produce cheap power, their power is not utilised because, their fuel costs are higher. Fixed charge, is the amount calculated by taking infrastructure and establishment costs.
 
 Managing director, of Madhya Pradesh Power Generation Company Limited, AP Bhairve told TOI, “It is true that our plant load factor is low, but it will improve as fuel costs will come down. Our fuel costs increase because there is a problem with the quality of coal supplied to us and its pricing. There was no remedy, but now Central   (CIMFR) has been appointed by the Union government and we will not be required to pay for higher quality coal, despite getting low grade coal. It will bring the fuel costs lower,”
 
 What is plant load factor?
 
 Plant Load Factor or PLF is the ratio between the actual energy that is generated by a power plant to the maximum power that could be generated by the same plant.
 
 How PLF affects costs of power?
 
 Low PLF or (performance) means less energy production. Suppose fixed charges of a plant are Rs 100 per day and fuel cost (coal, oil) of Rs 1 per unit is required for production of energy, then if only 10 units of energy is produced its per unit cost will be Re 1 multiplied by 10 (fuel costs) plus Rs 100 (fixed charges) divided by 10, it will come out to be Rs 11, per unit.
 
 But if 50 units of energy are produced, then it will come out to be Rs 3, as the fixed charges will remain constant, explained experts. Thus low PLF directly affects efficiency and cost.
 
