HYDERABAD: Many corporates that continued to give reimbursement to employees as hard cash, are now migrating to 'preloaded cards' and digital modes of payments like 'Zeta' and 'Paytm' to hand out 'perks' and 'reimbursements'.

 Employees are happy with these newer 'products' becoming part of the payroll. “Now I am able to use the pre-loaded car at our campus. Its made things much easier. Unlike tech companies, pharma companies did not have such an option till date,“ said Srikanth B, a professional. Many are getting their 'extra perks' for clocking in overtime and other performance rewards in the form of these cards. “For the   (IT) sector,   and other coupons have been a norm. Gift cards made an entry about three years back. However, now even smaller companies with a headcount of around 300 are adopting gift cards to transfer extra perks,“ pointed out Pallavi Sowoji, an HR with a city based IT company .
 
 Customised solutions by pre-loaded card companies allowing an employee to use pre-paid cards within the organisation campus and food courts are being adopted by Tech companies to push the benchmark further. “Several corporates have recognised the value of distributing reimbursements digitally rather than using petty cash or other physical vouchers. Over the past few weeks, we have witnessed an increased interest among corporates to opt for the  's suite of employee tax benefits products,“ said Bhavin Turakhia, CEO and co-founder, Zeta adding that the twin cities are responding `very well' to the move. The tax benefit component is a win-win situation for both employers and employees.
 
 “With these newer initiatives offering a digital way to save tax, it is simple and easy to pass on the benefits to the employees,“ explained  , spokesperson, Telenor (India) Communications Pvt. Ltd that uses Zeta cards. Hyderabad which was also one of the first cities in India to receive and adopt to gift cards in general is quick to adopt the such modes as `payroll' options. “Due to a vast majority of people settled abroad and exposed to the gifting market in the West pre-loaded cards have been popular among citizens.
 
