Just a day after the suicide of 24-year-old student Arjun Bhardwaj, which made news for the live Facebook video that preceded the act, another such news of a similar suicide attempt broke out in Bengaluru.   Kannada winner and filmmaker-actor   went online on a live video talking to his followers after consuming pills. He said that he was upset with the way there were certain rumours about his career and personal life, which had affected him adversely. It was roughly around 5 am when Pratham went online and his video lasted for over 20 minutes. 
He spoke emotionally about the gossip and rumours that target him and apologized to people for taking this drastic step. Pratham, though, was rushed to a hospital in Nagarabhavi soon thereafter, his friends say, and was treated immediately. When we tried contacting Pratham on his mobile, someone answered the call just saying he was fine and refused to comment or talk further. 
 A source close to Pratham also reveals that the Bigg Boss winner had tried to file a complaint about a missing laptop and hard disk too, which apparently contained his yet to be released debut directorial venture  . 
 
 
 Actor-television presenter  , who also knows Pratham closely and has acted in Devrawne Budu Guru as the lead, says that fame needs to be dealt with properly. “When one sees fame overnight, it becomes tough to deal with it. We have seen the case of   fame, where he couldn’t deal with the failure that followed the sudden success. This is something anyone needs to be prepared for, for showbiz brings with it both the good and the bad. I’ve always told Pratham that the Bigg Boss winner tag won’t last forever and he needs to be ready for everything. I am yet to meet him, but have been inquiring about his well-being,” adds Akul. 
 
 
 Bigg Boss winner Pratham’s suicide attempt has brought forth a new dilemma. While social media and live videos have been used for suicide cases, this is probably the first of a known figure in India involving the celebrity commiting the act online, live in front of the audience. Supreme Court advocate KV Dhananjay says, “Since 1860, the law in India has had a provision to punish an individual who tries to commit suicide, but does not die. The punishment is one year in jail. This provision is popularly known as Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. However, there has always been widespread public condemnation for this provision and the Parliament has taken steps to remove it. Only last week, on March 27, 2017, the Parliament removed this provision. However, the removal will only take effect once the President of India approves it. As of today, the President’s approval is still awaited. Therefore, Pratham could be technically charged with an attempt to commit suicide as Section 309 of the IPC is still in force today. There were close to 1,35,000 suicides in India in 2013. A bigger number of people attempt to commit suicide but fail. Though Section 309 of the IPC has been in the law book for the past 157 years, the police rarely charge any suicide survivor under this provision. There is a public perception that the police charge some people under this provision for political compulsions as in the case of persistent fasting by Irom Sharmlia, a North-Eastern woman in Delhi or to send out a warning message to the public. What Pratham just did would worry both the sociologists and the police. Facebook Live has unwittingly created a novel but a legally strong method to leave behind a suicide note; it may therefore, create the urge in more people under severe depression to attempt suicide publicly. Should the Bengaluru Police charge Pratham to deter such future attempts by others, one cannot legally find fault with them.”
 
 
