AGARTALA: The counsel of the   group on Monday filed a petition seeking anticipatory bail for its chairman Goutam Kundu at the district and sessions judge court in West Tripura, even as a   (SIT) of Tripura Police prayed for extension of transit remand to bring him to Agartala. 

 According to reports, SIT is at the final stage to file a  . In the course of investigation into the case, the SIT found 42 insurance policies registered by Kundu in the state and all the properties of   have already been confiscated.
 
 The SIT wanted to interrogate Kundu in custody to unearth the truth behind the insurance policies and other shady activities of Rose Valley. Last week, SIT officials went to Odisha with a warrant against Kundu, director of Rose Valley group Shibmay Dutta and general manager Ashok Saha to bring them to Agartala for questioning in connection with a case related to a forgery of Rs 98 lakh lodged in 2013.
 
 The accused were handed over to SIT officials on Sunday. At night, when they reached Kolkata, Kundu and others were put up at Presidency Jail. They were scheduled to brought back to Agartala on Monday. But on Sunday evening, SIT officials were informed by the jail superintendent that Kundu fell sick and doctors have prevented him from flying. Accordingly, the court was informed this in the morning by SIT and his production in the court was deferred.
 
 Congress MLA Ratan Lal Nath said, "The case in conection with which Kundu was supposed to be brought to Agartala was filed by an officer of small savings department in 2013 but the amount of money involved was not mention. Now after four years, it came to light that the money involved is Rs 98 lakh. This means the case could have been referred to the CBI. But to evade   into the Rose Valley scam, the state government skilfully avoided it. Now when CPM leaders are about to be nabbed by the CBI, they have mobilised the SIT to divert attention." 
 
 Nath, however, said even if the CBI sends Kundu and others on transit remand to Tripura SIT, it must keep a tab on the interrogation and conversation between both the groups. Rubbishing the allegations, CPM's Tripura unit secretary Bijan Dhar said the party never interferes in the administration and judicial process. "The SIT was not constituted by the state government," he added. 
 
