With hardly four days left for the   Under-17  , arguably the biggest sporting extravaganza to be organised in Kochi, the football chatter in the city has slowly picked up, despite the tournament featuring young and relatively unknown players from around the world. Fans, organisers and even government officials are seemingly riding high on the excitement as Jawaharlal Nehru   is getting to ready to host its first match — a marquee one — featuring Brazil and Spain on October 7.

  As sevens football tournaments, flash mobs and renovation works are in full swing, Kochi Times takes a look at how the city and the State are gearing up for the World Cup.
 
 
 
 The State authorities have been on the ball from the start — renovating the stadium as well as the four training grounds. IAS officer Muhammed Hanish, the government’s nodal officer for the World Cup, says, “All the facilities have been upgraded to international standards. Despite the inclement weather conditions, there’s been a great deal of infrastructure development in the adjoining areas such as Fort Kochi, Kaloor and M G Road, where the roads have been spruced up and general maintenance carried out.”
 
  The priority has been to adhere to the FIFA guidelines while ensuring that the fans have “the moment of a lifetime”, he says. “It would be a new experience for the football-crazy fans of   to witness how international games are played in world class conditions. We won’t have jam-packed stadiums but instead we would have regulated, orderly crowds with personal seats for the spectators.”
 
 From the government’s side, Hanish tells us that a torch and a ball run relay are being planned, starting from two ends of the State on Tuesday and culminating in a grand event on October 6.
 
  With the tournament featuring players  , most of the spectators will be the youth as is evident from the ticket sales, says Kerala Football Association president KMI Mather. “I remember Kochi hosted its first big tournament — an Asian Cup zonal match in 1958 — despite having minimum facilities. It’s because of the fans and their love for the sport. This tournament will be a grand value addition not just to the State but also to the fans and aspiring players as it would fuel the football frenzy,” he says.
 
 
 
 Football clubs and fans across the State have already started their celebrations. Malappuram-based Jaffar KV, of Sports and Education Trust, says that they are in the middle of an under-17 Sevens tournament featuring 26 teams. “What better way to cash in on the excitement of the World Cup than by playing?” he asks, adding that such tournaments are being held in other districts too. While many from Jaffar’s gang are yet to get  , he says that they would all reach Kochi when the tournament begins.
 
 Meanwhile, the biggest fan group of Kerala   — Manjappada — are doing their bit to reach out to maximum number of people to get them to attend the World Cup matches. Its member Manu Prathap says, “We have been organising bike rallies, flash mobs and also Sevens tournaments in all districts, and it has actually got more people to buy tickets.”
 
 On Sunday, Manjappada members concluded their three-day sevens tournament at St Rita’s Palluruthy, Kochi, which even had Blasters coach Terry Phelan as the guest. In fact, the group is also coordinating other activities with fans.
 
 “We are planning to come up with a unique chant welcoming other teams to India that we will be spreading through our app. Also, we want to perform the Viking thunder-claps like Iceland fans,” says Manu. “For the matches, we will be carrying flexes cheering for Indian football team.”
 
  Even those outside the State such as Unni Paravannoor, who runs a football portal in Bengaluru, the upcoming World Cup will be a means to get together. “All our social media groups have been abuzz about the tournament and our members are spread across Kerala. The plan now is to get to Kochi for the Brazil vs Spain match as both teams enjoy massive following among Malayalis,” he says. “It’s also the first time a FIFA event is happening in India, so we all want to be part of it.”
 
  For die-hard fans, the event also serves as a platform to plot the trajectory of future stars. “We will watch out for up-and-coming players and based on how they perform in this tournament, we would be following their games in the coming years,” says Unni.
 
 Another facet Kerala fans are known for, says Mather, is that they support fair games, and have no tolerance for aggression or foul plays — be it on the football field or outside. Unni too concurs, adding, “When Palestine last played in Kochi, we had a lot of fans supporting the cause in their country. This time DPR Korea will be playing and you can expect fans who are following international incidents to come out and express their stand during the match.”
 
 
 
 While a good inflow of fans and tourists is expected during the tournament, the cafes and hotels in the city are still caught in two minds in terms of preparation, mostly because they are not sure of what type of crowd to expect. Praveen Mohan, owner of a popular café in Kaloor, tells us, “Unlike the ISL, this is a U-17 event and we are not too sure about the response. We are hoping for a good turnout but right now, we don’t have any major events planned but we would be streaming live matches, putting up scoreboards and points table to update customers.” Similarly, even jersey sales that usually pick up ahead of a football tournament in Kochi are yet to see any change, says Anshas S, a jersey seller.
 
 However, with Kochi hosting eight matches including pre-quarter and quarter final games, the buzz is expected to pick up even more. Mohammed Hanish too urges the fans to show up, saying, “The young players in the tournament are tomorrow’s Messis, Ronaldos and Neymars. So, the fans must come out to cheer their games while also ensuring that tournament will always be remembered for the pride it will bring to the State.”
 
