PATNA: Apart from enjoying mouthwatering food and various cultural programme by eminent artists, youngsters in Patna find   as a platform to showcase their talent. The ten-day festival, organized jointly by  , part of Patna divisional commissioner office and art, cultural and youth department, has provided a platform to young Patnaites to showcase their talents.

 It is to be noted that various song, dance, quiz and painting competitions have been organized during festival which started at Gandhi Maidan on February 15. Shri Krishna Smarak samiti deputy manager Alok Prakash said more than one thousand participants filled in forms to participate in various categories. The prize money is Rs5000, Rs3000 and Rs2000 for finishing first, second and third respectively.
 
 Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor said the aim behind this festival was to provide healthy entertainment to the city residents and also to provide a bigger stage to the city youths to come closer to the administration. “We have seen many students studying in government schools do not get an opportunity to perform on big stage in front of a large audience, unlike private school students. So, we thought of giving them an opportunity,” he said.
 
 Even the parents were happy to see their wards perform on a big stage. Dressed in multicoloured ghaghra and silver accessories, intermediate student of Government Women’s College, Gardanibagh, Neha Sharma was all excited to perform dandiya with her seven other friends. While practising in the green room, another participant of the same group, Tanya Sharma said it was the biggest stage she had ever got to perform. 
 
 A group of three, named Crazy Boys, had come all the way from Khusrupur to perform Hip-Hop. One of the them,  , said his team had practised hard to secure position. 
 
 Practising the classical song, ‘Payaliya jhankaar mori’ just before performing on the stage,   of   said he had also participated in the last Basant Utsava. “I had qualified till the final stage, but unfortunately could not win. However, the judges asked me not to leave singing. For a year, I have practising to perform once again on this stage,” said Khan.
 
