By 
 

  is not your  . "I did not study much at home; hardly two hours a day. I used to spend maximum time studying in college," she says.
 
 A student of SGPTA PU College, Thyagarajanagara, she would often assist her mother in her job; something that her mother was not very keen on. "My mother used to take me to her office and show me what work she used to do. She used to sweep, clean the tables, keep the office neat and other office work as well." At times, Nandini would double up as the office maid. "I used to help my mother in her work," she says, adding that her mother wanted her to study instead.
 
 Today, Nandini's mother cannot contain her happiness. Nandini scored 96.33 per cent in Science stream, just a shade under the top scorer (Srujana N of Mangaluru scored 99.33 per cent in Science).
 
 After the family got to know the results, with a little help from some friends, her mother said: "I want her to serve the society. She should become number one in whatever she does. She has struggled a lot. We know her pain. Seeing parents like us, I can also understand how a girl child will feel."
 
 Nandini's father, Shiva Kumar, works as a bar bender and wants her daughter to become a doctor but has the final choice to Nandini. "I want my daughter to study well and choose her own career. We as parents have full confident in her and we know she will be a successful women one day. If she gets through NEET, I will definitely help her get a medical seat and she will make a good doctor one day."
 
 Nandini has always been a bright student. Before PU, she received the   for being a topper in  . She studied in  , Uttarahalli.
 
 Prathap Naidu, principal of SGPTA PU College says, "Nandini is disciplined, obedient and hard-working. She used to focus on studies from the beginning and she has proved to be a smart student. We have seen Nandini coming to college only having her breakfast, and skipping lunch. She would finish college and go back to having something to eat only after 5.30 pm."
 
 Despite dividing her time between studies and working as a part-time maid, Nandini managed to score 578/600. She has also written CET and NEET exams and is awaiting results. 
 
 Because she is not your average student.
 
 
