CHENNAI: A decade ago, when he started reviving native  , it raised hope among farmers in Tamil Nadu. It was a turning point in the history of paddy cultivation when he started distributing the seeds to farmers through a  .

 For R Jayaraman, it was a journey in search of traditional paddy seeds, earning him the name `Nel' (paddy) Jayaraman. A great challenge indeed, and he was not tired. But today , this 52-year-old is having a tough time.
 
 Jayaraman was diagnosed with `malignant melanoma' (skin  ) in January .Though many   groups posted messages on social networking sites seeking funds from public for his treatment, some withdrew the posts due to objection raised by Jayaraman himself.
 
 His nephew told TOI that Jayaraman underwent an immunotherapy session on Tuesday at a private hospital in Chennai. “The treatment has started and the first session got over today . The bill was Rs 3 lakh. We don't know what to do, we are struck,” said S Rajiv. 
 
 A school dropout-turned farmer, Jayaraman revived more than 150 traditional paddy varieties as part of the Save our Rice (SoR) Campaign, a national movement aimed at conserving traditional varieties of paddy a decade ago. A staunch follower of organic farming guru  , Jayaraman, a native of Adirangam village in Tiruvarur district, realised through various experiments that native paddy seeds were best suited for coastal districts prone to climatic variations.
 
 Jayaraman won the Best Organic Farmer Award in 2012 and 2013 from the Agri culture department of the state government.
 
 “The Immunotherapy treatment recommended for his condition would provide him the best chance of survival. This is an expensive protocol and is expected to cost at least `10 lakh. We, his friends and associates, are seeking help for this indefatigable activist. We hope to bring him back to health,“ said a post that appeared on a social networking site. The post even had an account number to which the contributions can be sent.
 
 When contacted, the person who posted it said, “We are sorry. He (Jayaraman) is not happy with our request.He doesn't want to disturb the public.“
 
 Others said Jayaraman was right and no one could question his dignity. “Why can't the government take over his expenses. He is the one who revived paddy cultivation in the state. The government has a great responsibility. I hope the new CM will do something immediately,” said K Subramanian, a Chennai-based farmer.
 
 
