The   of the house brings in the main energy. Read on to find out more about the   of the main entrance!
 
  The main entrance of the house is one of the most important areas. Dr Snehal S Deshpande, Advanced Feng Shui & Pyravastu Consultant tells us more about it. The main entrance is the mouth of a house which brings in main energy and here are certain rules about the dos and don’ts regarding the door!
  
  Avoid a property which has a door facing South West as it is the entry of the devil energy and brings in struggles and misfortunes. If the wealth energy as per advanced Feng Shui of that house is good, the occupant may prosper during initial 3-4 years. But then may face a down fall. If your house already has a door facing South West, fix 2 Hanumanji’s tiles ( with the Gada in his left hand) outside the door & see the difference. Certain gems like Yellow Sapphire, Earth Crystals, Lead with the Expert’s advice can also further reduce the severity of this defect. But it is always better to avoid such properties.
  
  The door facing South East is said to be a door which brings in illness, anger and court matters. wo stickers of Gayatri Mantra should be fixed on both the sides of the door from outside. Use of gems like Coral, Yellow Sapphire etc. and copper with a proper advice will further reduce the defects of this door.
  
  South facing door brings in sharp energy which disturbs positive energy field of the house. Door here means a highly active social life. Some times it may bring in arguments or disagreements. Again fixing two above mentioned Hanumanji’s tiles outside the door will help. It can further be protected by using lead, cat’s eye etc. But this door if it is in fourth Pada is very good for an occupant.
  
  West facing door is also not bad for the youngsters as it has an active energy & energy of enjoyment. That is why in Japan, Geisha houses are always facing west.
  
  North West facing door is not so bad. It can bring in health, wealth and prosperity if supported by other vastu rules. Only thing that the main male member of the house may remain out of the house for a longer time if the door faces west and a female if the door faces North.
 
 
 Vaastu expert Jai Madaan shares few feasible tips to balance the equilibrium of the house: 
 
 1. At the entrance if you have a naked wall, place a statue or a picture of Ganesha. Since a naked wall represents l oneliness, it is a good way to conceal it.
 2. Numbers of doors and windows should be even in the house.
 
  Normally doors facing East, North, North East are said to be good doors. But again there are many other things like Cuts, Extensions, Under Ground Water Tanks, Feng Shui (Flying Stars Chart ) of the house which decide the wealth and health of the occupant. 
