A lot has been going in   since a sudden   of `9,000 in the tuition   was announced for the students of all diploma courses, last month. Baffled students belonging to middle class families resorted to more than a week-long demonstration to get the sudden fee hike shelved. The issue escalated and was brought to the notice of the Chief Minister, and that gave students hope. But a month later, their struggle is still not over.

 Since the institute is an aided body and there is no in-house director, it was difficult for the students to confide in someone. Though, with the help of the collector, the students were able to get in touch with the Technical Educational Minister of the state, who assured them to put up a detailed case in front of the CM. Saurabh Sengar, a first year mechanical engineering student informs, “A couple of students along with a few faculty members who support us silently, had gone to Dewas before Holi to meet with the Technical Educational Minister. He had assured us to arrange a meeting with the Chief Minister by March 15, which never happened, despite many follow ups. It seems that the authorities have been giving us false hopes.” However, when we spoke with Deepak Joshi, Technical Educational Minister of the state, he said, “Vaishnav Polytechnic College, Indore, is supposedly run by the trust, but in reality it’s the state government that is running the institute, as far as providing funds is concerned. However, it’s consuming time to make use of all resources to let the college be taken over by the government. We are doing our best.”
 
 
  
 
 Meanwhile, on March 20, students were issued a second notice stating that the revised fee be paid by March 25, failing which they wouldn’t be allowed to appear for their semester exams. Manmohan Dethliya, a first year student of electronics branch said, “None of the 1,800 students have paid the difference amount so far and come what may, the students are stern about not paying the difference at all. It’s okay if the institute doesn’t allow us to appear for the exams. First year alone has over 700 students and if all of them don’t give the exam, the issue will surely create a stir, but we are ready for the consequences.” Another student, Faizan Ali added, “The sole reason that students take admission at Vaishnav Polytechnic College, is because it’s an aided body and provides good placement. All the students are from middle and lower middle class households, for whom paying `19,000 was difficult. Now, according to the revised amount, our fee is somewhere around `28,000. We will wait till March 25 and if nothing moves in our favour, we will stage   on a bigger level.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Amidst all this frenzy, classes are still being held regularly. A faculty member on condition of anonymity informed, “We don’t want to let our students suffer in any way. So we are holding regular classes and supporting them silently by guiding them. But if the students pay the difference amount it would benefit us, as none of the faculty members have received their salaries for the last three months. Our silent protests to resolve this are also underway. The whole system has a lot of loopholes and it’s unfair for V aishnav Polytechnic Indore, since the other polytechnic institutes in Madhya Pradesh have entirely become government institutes.”
 
 Talking about the sudden hike in the fees and delay in faculty receiving their salaries, Dr Veerendra Kumar, director of Technical Education MP said, “Instructions have been issued to pay the salaries of the faculties from autonomous funds. However, as far as the hike in fees is concerned, that decision has been taken by the financial department. The hike in fees is for the betterment of the institute. The administration gives a particular college three times the funds on the amount collected as fees which is utilised for the betterment of the institute. If the total amount of fees collected is `2 crores then the administration will give an aided institute `6 crores for operating smoothly.”
 
 
