CHANDIGARH:   and millions of hectares of land in Haryana are  , Haryana chief minister   said on Friday at the 28th Northern Zonal Council meeting here chaired by Union home minister  . Khattar urged that the state receive water from the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.

 Khattar said Haryana was a water-stressed state. Availability of water was only 14.7 MAF (million-acre feet) against a demand of 36.0 MAF. He said that in order to honour the Supreme Court judgment, Haryana had to share water from Yamuna river with Delhi.
 
 “But at the same time, Punjab is not ready to deliver Haryana’s full share water from Ravi-Beas,” he said. Out of a total of 18 items discussed in the meeting attended by five states, UT Chandigarh and national capital territory Delhi, seven were resolved.
 
 “The state government is willing to work towards an amicable settlement of every issue but we must always honour agreements arrived at in the past,” said Khattar. He further added that the state would never hesitate in taking legal recourse to safeguard its residents’ interests.
 
 The chief minister said it is a matter of national concern as even after the signing of Indus Water Treaty in 1960, more than 3 MAF water is being allowed to flow into Pakistan. He urged the Centre to expedite construction of Renuka, Kishau and Lakhwar-Vyasi dams on Yamuna. He said water supply in Yamuna had been dwindling over the past years and since there is no dam on it, precious water was going waste during the monsoon season.
 
 Khattar made it clear that Haryana was not in agreement with Punjab government on its proposal of exclusive investment on the Bhakra main line canal and of exclusive utilization of the electricity generated therefrom by Punjab.
 
 During a discussion of the treatment plant for disposal of hazardous waste of Delhi, Khattar said Haryana’s concerns in the matter must be kept in view. He urged the Union home minister to make a strong recommendation to the Centre and National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) to provide liberal assistance in the state’s efforts to enhance agricultural productivity and upgrade   infrastructure. 
 
