In the latest episode of  , Masi sa is seen telling Uma that if there is one more mistake in Kanak's dasi dharam,what would he do. Uma says that he would leave   if that happens.
 
  Kanak comes and takes  's plate from Palomi and says that she would eat in his plate only, as she follows her dharma and would not use a fresh plate. Uma and Masi sa look at her and smile. Kanak takes a chapatti and puts gravy on it, when Palomi asks what she is doing, she says that she is making a roll. Uma sees this and smiles at her.
  
  Later, Kanak goes to Payal and asks her why she didn't run away from the house when she could do so? Payal tries to avoid getting into a conversation with her and says that she woke up early, so she can't talk right now. Payal's mother calls out for her and she leaves. Payal's mother bad mouths about Kanak and instigates her daughter against the latter.
  
  Meanwhile, Kanak is seen sorting Uma Shankar's wardrobe, when he comes and tells her that he keeps his white clothes and coloured clothes separate. She does that for him and thinks of going to sleep as she has to wake up early the next day. Uma doesn't let her sleep and reminds her that still few hours are left for her dasi dharam. He places his head in Kanak's lap and asks her to give him a good head massage so that he can go off to sleep. A tired and irritated Kanak does as her husband commands and falls asleep in that position itself.
  
  
 
  
  Kanak wakes up before Uma does and the latter is glad to see her combing her hair when he opens his eyes.
  
  Back in Ajmer, Rani is seen waiting for Golu at the temple where Pandit ji tells her that the guy wouldn't come as she has been waiting for long. She calls up at Golu's home and comes to know that he is not there. This makes her happy thinking that he might come to the temple. Meena answers the call and knows that Rani is on the other end. She says that she is smarter than her and had sent Golu to have chaat.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates on Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaji. 
