PUNE: The stage was set. Everything — right from neatly arranged chairs, cut-outs to microphones and speakers — were in place on Saturday afternoon for the first election rally of chief minister   in central Pune — a BJP bastion.

 As promised, Fadnavis reached the venue dot on time —2.15pm. But he did not get on the stage. Barring a handful of BJP office-bearers, there was hardly anybody in the audience. The chief minister was greeted with empty chairs.
 
 A visibly upset Fadnavis rushed out of the New English School grounds, off Tilak Road, after waiting near the stairs of the stage for nearly 10 minutes. “I have cancelled my public meeting at Pune due to miscommunication of time of rally. I regret for the same. Heading towards Pimpri Chinchwad,” he tweeted, soon after.
 
 A BJP worker present at the venue of the chief minister’s rally said, “Afternoon was not the right time for the rally.”
 
 He pointed out that even the handful of party men present at the venue did not occupy the chairs despite appeal by leaders from the stage, including MP Anil Shirole, guardian minister  , minister of state Dilip Kamble and MLA Vijay Kale.
 
 Interestingly, the afternoon heat did not bother the party men in Pimpri. They turned up in large numbers for the chief minister’s meeting there.
 
 The cancellation of the rally came as a huge embarrassment to the party’s city unit. Jokes on the habit of post-lunch nap of Puneites living in the central part of the city on the social media added insult to the injury. So did the comments that the party office-bearers also keep their shops closed between 1pm and 4pm to enjoy the afternoon siesta.
 
 A source said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh held a meeting in the evening and the Sangh seniors squarely blamed the party’s Pune unit office-bearers for the poor public turnout at the event.
 
 The BJP’s city unit chief,  , played down the issue, though. He told TOI, “The reports that the Sangh workers are unhappy and so they did not turn up for the rally are baseless. It was the fallout of miscommunication about the rally’s time among the party men.”
 
 He said the party’s office-bearers were not aware of the chief minister’s packed schedule and were under the impression that the rally would start around 3pm.
 
 “The rally was scheduled at 2pm, but we were expecting the chief minister and the party’s candidates with their supporters at the venue by 3pm. But he arrived around 2.15pm. It was not possible for him to wait further as he had to rush for the rally in Pimpri,” Gogawale said.
 
 A source in the BJP told TOI that it was the chief minister’s concluding rally in the city after four meetings on the outskirts earlier this week. “This was in our bastion. There was no miscommunication. And, how can the office-bearers expect the chief minister to come late for the meeting?”
 
 
