CHANDIGARH: Even before chief minister Amarinder Singh completes 30 days in office, the Punjab government on Wednesday set up a commission of inquiry to review the false cases and FIRs registered during the 10-year rule of Shiromani Akali Dal regime.

 Captain Amarinder on Wednesday declared that former Punjab and Haryana high court judge   would head the commission, which has the mandate to probe and take “remedial decisions”.
 
 The notification, describing the ambit and purpose of the commission, has used harsh language against the way the Punjab police had registered some FIRs.
 
 “Whereas it has come to the notice of the government that a large number of persons are said to have been involved in allegedly false and baseless cases and FIRs in the state of Punjab in the past 10 years, the maintenance of law and order in the state and faith of people of Punjab in an unbiased investigation mechanism and the administration of justice is a matter of definite public importance," the notification said.
 
 The government has asked the commission to submit a report within six months. The panel has been set up under Section 11 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952.
 
 The notification says that Gill would be entitled to the pay of a judge of the high court, including dearness allowance and would be given a separate travel allowance to probe these cases, apart from getting "facility of staff car, office space and secretarial staff to the commission."
 
 Amarinder has already decided to review all SAD policies of the past six months, including mining, transport and ordered vigilance bureau probe into the Rs 12,000 crore foodgrain scam.
 
 In his previous 2002-07 tenure as chief minister, Captain Amarinder had arrested both Sukhbir and his father Parkash Badal following a vigilance bureau case in alleged disproportionate assets case.
 
 A week earlier, the CM had elevated an ADGP-rank officer,  , who had probed the DA case against Sukhbir, as the new vigilance bureau director.
 
