AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Wednesday   of understanding (MoUs) with   from  , namely, Ghana,  . The state government also entered into an MoU with the Republic of Togo as part of the ongoing African Development Bank’s (AfDB) annual meetings being held in Gandhinagar.

 The pacts were signed by Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation (GAIC) with Zambia’s Fidanna Limited, the Association of Ghana Industries and Limpopo Agricola e Desenvolvimento Lda of Mozambique for areas such as agriculture and agri-productivity, power generation, automobiles, technology transfers and tourism.
 
 The agreements were signed in presence of Gujarat chief minister   and senior state and central government officials and African delegates. The state government also signed an MoU with Republic of Togo to develop Infrastructure projects, mining activities, and renewable energy sources for power generation, increasing productivity of arable land and boosting tourism.
 
 “There is a huge potential of partnership between India and Africa in areas of raising agriculture output, rural infrastructure, education and skill development. Private sector can play an important role in development of agriculture and food processing sectors in Africa,” said Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)-western region chairman Piruz Khambatta, while speaking at a session on Africa-India co-operation in agriculture, during which the MoUs were signed.
 
 “There is tremendous scope for India to help Africa improve the way agriculture is taken up in the continent,” added Atul Jain, joint managing director, Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd.
 
 Among other things, the agreements will also help promote agriculture activities in these African countries. “As a follow up to these agreements, a delegation comprising government officials and entrepreneurs from Gujarat will visit the four African nations in July and August,” said Saurashtra Udyog Vepar Mahamandal president, Parag Tejura, who facilitated signing of the agreements. His association has been actively encouraging farmers from Saurashtra to take up agricultural activities in Africa.
 
