L&T Infotech, which has rebranded itself as  , is hiring people in newer technologies. India's sixth-largest IT services firm is learnt to be hiring over a 1,000 mid-level professionals in 2017-18 across emerging technologies including proficiency in front-office insurance underwriting solutions Guidewire and Duck Creek, business intelligence and data visualization tool Tableau, data integration solution Talend, and enterprise analytics platform MicroStrategy.

 The company is looking at those with 8-15 years of experience, and this at a time when a number of leading IT services companies are asking employees in this experience bracket to leave. The need for specialised skills re flects in the company's new deal wins including that of a property and casualty insurance company to implement Duck Creek for six commercial lines of businesses.
 
 LTI, which counts Hitachi and Samsung Electronics among its customers, has embarked on a digital journey leveraging what it calls the Mosaic platform that partners with customers on their mobile, social, analytics, IoT and cloud transformations. The company is also hiring 1,500-2,000 freshers this year, said sources close to the company .
 
 LTI is increasingly focusing on making at least 75% of the organisation DevOps and Agile-ready as companies are seeing the benefits of bringing lean operations and continuous integration. The move is also seen to be necessary to fulfil several large annuity engagements that the firm has won recently .
 
 The company posted robust performance in the fourth quarter and for the 2016-17 financial year, outperforming its larger peers. Its revenue rose 3.6% sequentially in the March quarter to $254 million. For the full year, its revenues rose 9.3% to $969.9 million. In constant currency , its revenue grew 10%, meeting the higher-end of Nasscom's forecast of 8% to 10% for the year. Sanjay Jalona, CEO and MD of LTI, attributes the company’s performance to its focus on client success and transformation capabilities across digital, analytics, IoT, automation and cloud. “When we started the year, digital revenue was less than 20%.Today, it has grown to 28%, analytics as a services and work related to transformational deals in infrastructure management services especially areas where customers are spending, have grown upwards of 25% year on year.”
 
 
