LUDHIANA: The   is all set to receive three   from the state government on April 7. The vehicles currently with the   are in dire need of   as most of them have lived off their age but even then department is continuing using these vehicles. Earlier in October last year, the state government had sent three fire tenders for the department. 
 
 Under the disaster management scheme, the state government had received a grant of Rs 45 crore from the Union government and they had placed an order of 100 fire tenders in Hyderabad. The state had received 25 fire tenders in the first lot out of which 3 were allotted to Ludhiana municipal corporation. Now another lot is ready and the department will get 3 more fire tenders.
 
 According to the officials, 13 fire tenders are in running condition and during summer the number of fire incidents increase many times over. Hence, these three vehicles can provide some relief. In the existing lot of fire tenders most of the vehicles were purchased in 2002 and these can be used up to 10 years hence these vehicles should have been discarded in 2012. However, since the MC could not purchase new fire tenders despite giving approvals for the same, the old fire tenders are still in use. 
 
 Meanwhile in the new financial year, the civic body has kept a budget of Rs 4 crore for the fire department but most of the amount will be spent in paying salaries and maintenance of the infrastructure. In case of its up gradation, the department will have to dependent on the state government. 
 
 One of the officials has confirmed that they had received a letter from the government that three new fire tenders would be issued on April 7. 
 
 Civic body secretary Surinder Pal, who is also in charge of fire brigade branch, said they had kept a budget for proper functioning of the branch while its up gradation is pending at government level. He claimed that they had provide funding for emergency usage. The new fire tenders are multi purpose as these are equipped with powder, gas, water and foam for dousing fire of any type. In the previous vehicles only water was used. According to fire officials, there is requirement of at least 60 fire tenders for the thickly populated city of Ludhiana. 
 
