NEW DELHI: Recruitment of teachers and promotions in   (AMU) have come under the scanner following allegations of “gross violation of   rules and discrimination”, prompting the HRD ministry to ask for a report on the alleged irregularities.

 The ministry has asked the   to look into the issue.
 
 Responses to   queries (copies of which are with TOI) revealed how teachers had been promoted without having the minimum Academic Performance Indications (API) score of 120 points overriding those who fulfilled the criteria. 
 
 Teachers were promoted without having guided any PhD scholar while in some cases promotions had been done on the basis of book reviews.
 
 All these appointments were made during the tenure of outgoing VC Lt Gen Zameer Uddin Shah who is retiring on May 17. 
 
 Tariq Mansoor, principal of AMU’s  , is to take charge as the new VC. TOI had first reported about the ministry asking UGC to conduct an academic and research audit of 11 central universities, including AMU, which were considered “non-performers”. 
 
 According to sources, the audit team which visited the university recently also sought answers on these issues.
 
 Faculty members had highlighted the discrepancies to the university administration.
 
 According to the teachers, the VC not only imposed “illegal conditions for promotion but also applied them selectively”. They said candidates not even fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria had been promoted and that there was no female expert on the selection panel meet on February 10.
 
 Terming the allegations as “false”, Shah said the complainants are those who faced action for financial irregularities.
 
 “The allegations are unwarranted and false. We have clarified every thing to  . An audit has been done and I am sure we will be proved blameless. The complainants are people against whom we have taken action for financial irregularities and for dereliction of duty. It will be a pity if allegations are accepted,” said Shah.
 
 Asking the university to examine the matter and send their comments to the ministry at the earliest, MHRD in its letter to AMU said: “The complainant alleged that AMU has prescribed ‘3 PhDs’ (to have guided three PhD scholars) condition for promotion of associate professor to professor which is neither approved by the university’s executive council, academic council or court and the same is also not as per UGC Regulations, 2010.” 
 
 The complainants also cited how faculty members were promoted despite having guided just none or just one scholar.
 
 “While the ‘3 PhD’ condition itself is in violation of the UGC regulations, the university has used it selectively and discriminatory manner.
 
 One teacher was promoted without having guided any PhD scholar during the tenure of the current VC. There are a dozen faculty members who have been promoted like this,” said a senior faculty member from the department of political science.
 
