NEW DELHI:   has teamed up with the European Union to propose a reduction in incentives given by developing countries to their farmers, a move that could impact India adversely along with other  .
 
  The two have jointly prepared a paper for the World Trade Organisation proposing a cut in caps on   given by developing countries.
  
  If the proposal is accepted, India will not be able to give any subsidy except minimum support price (MSP) and might have to curtail the grant for pest and disease control, and infrastructure and marketing services, among others.
  
  Moreover, the proposal seeks to prohibit exports from food stocks meant for public stockholding to “ensure that stocks procured under such programmes do not distort trade or adversely affect the   of other members”. This clause could bring India’s exports under the scanner.
  
  The paper is said to have been circulated among World Trade Organisation members a day after India and China jointly floated a proposal challenging a major flexibility available with developed countries whereby they can concentrate their subsidies to a few farm products, which allows them more policy space and causes distortions in global agricultural trade.
  
  
  
  
  “EU and Brazil want to reduce the difference between the de minimis entitlement of developed and developing countries. India and other developing countries like Indonesia will be severely adversely affected if this proposal is accepted,” said Abhijit Das, head, Centre for   Studies.
  
  De minimis support is the maximum level of trade distorting farm subsidies that a country can give. This support is capped at 10% of total value of production for developing countries and 5% for developed nations.
  
  This subsidy, called aggregate measurement of support or AMS, can be given for a particular agricultural product in favour of the producers (product specific) or it can be given to farmers in general. The new ceiling is a matter of negotiations, according to a person aware of the proposal.
  
  Experts said developed countries might put pressure to cap input subsidies such as those for fertilisers, irrigation and electricity. There is no cap on these at present.“ There are other proposals which talk of disciplines on input subsidy,” the person said. India’s input subsidies fell to $22.8 billion in 2013-14 compared with $29.1billion in 2010-11.
  
  
 
  The paper has caused cracks in the coalition of developing countries in G-20, whose members include major developing countries such as Argentina and China. “No major developing country till now has talked of tinkering with other emerging countries’ subsidies. This has serious implications,” said Biswajit Dhar, professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University.
  
  While such a proposal was expected from the European Union, experts said Brazil’s support to the paper showed that it was no longer with the coalition. “The paper is self-serving for the   and it has fractured the developing country unity in G-20,” a Delhi-based expert on trade matters said, requesting not to be identified. 
