PUNE: The   is at it again as a member of the community has filed a complaint under the Mahrashtra Prohibition of People from Social Boycott Act with the Khadki police, accusing the community leaders of boycotting him for marrying outside the caste.

 The first complaint in the city under the newly enacted law was also lodged against 17 leaders of the same community with the   police on July 17.
 
 The Khadki police on Sunday booked nine Jaat Panchayat (caste committee) members for ordering social boycott of 39-year-old Ajit Ramchandra Chinchane, who married a woman from another caste in 1999. The community is originally from   and has settled in Pune and its suburban areas over the last 100 years. Chinchane, a resident of Vishrantwadi, lodged a complaint with the Khadki police on late Saturday night.
 
 Chinchane works in a hardware shop in Narayan Peth. He got married in 1999 with a woman from other caste and community . Following the marriage, the caste and community members severed all ties with the couple. In 2013, he wrote a letter to the Jaat Panchayat office in  . The panch, however, did not pay heed to his plea. He then repeatedly visited the office with his request, but in vain. Chinchane claimed that he was never called for community functions, events for children such as birthday parties and wedding s. In July this year, he wrote a letter to the panchayat stating that a new law has been enforced in the state and requested the “panch“ to re-include him in the caste.But the “panch“ told him that the social boycott would continue.
 
 Chinchane then decided to file a complaint against the “panch“ at the police station.The police filed the case under the provisions of the Act. On July 17, the Kondhwa police had booked 17 Jaat Panchayat members of the same community . One of the complainants, Nandakishore Ratnapal, a former president of the Jaat Panchayat, had claimed that he was removed from the body after he encouraged his son to go in for an inter-caste marriage. Ratnapal and his children have faced social boycott for the last two decades.
 
 On September 20, the   police had booked five trustees of the Padmashali Panch Committee for allegedly threatening to boycott a 37year-old man from the community.
 
 The complainant had claimed that the committee members demanded Rs 5 lakh for approving the transfer of a rent agreement from his grandfather's to his name.
 
 The members were also accused of circulating the boycott messages on social media.
 
