Any Indian fan of   and/or mythology has been hoping for the day he sends some of our own mythology, reimagined and modernised with a lot of humour our way and it seems that day is not too far.
 
 He recently announced that he’s formed an imprint with his publisher,  , called Rick Riordan Presents, to promote mythology inspired literature.
  
 Riordan wrote on his website, “Basically, our goal is to publish great books by middle grade authors from underrepresented cultures and backgrounds, to let them tell their own stories inspired by the mythology and folklore of their own heritage."
  
 While he doesn’t plan to write a book based on Indian mythology himself, one of the authors he’s signed up already has.   by   is due to release in spring of 2018 and is described as “Percy Jackson meets Sailor Moon”.
 
 Roshni Chokshi, is already a  , having written two   novels inspired by Indian mythology and history. Rick Riordan will help in editing and promoting the book, writing only an introduction to it. The story is entirely the authors' own and maybe that’s for the best. For while he’s adapted the Greco-roman, Egyptian and Norse myths wonderfully, he openly admits he’s no expert on every world mythology.
  
 “I saw that there was a lot of interest in reading fantasy adventures based on different world mythologies, but I also knew I wasn’t the best person to write them. Much better, I thought, to use my experience and my platform at Disney to put the spotlight on other great writers who are actually from those cultures and know the mythologies better than I do. Let them tell their own stories, and I would do whatever I could to help those books find a wide audience.”
  
 “Honestly, for me this is a way to give back for my success. I’ve been very lucky in my career. I want to use my platform to help other writers get a wider audience. I also want to help kids have a wider variety of great books to choose from, especially those that deal with world mythology,” he explains.
 
 The other two books his imprint plans to promote are Storm Runner by Jennifer Cervantes and Dragon Pearl by Yoon Ha Lee based on Mayan and Korean Mythology respectively
 
