KOLKATA: On August 10, 2016, even as   Pooja Patel, Sakshi Sharma and Gunjan strapped up in their Dornier, authorities did not allow   to operate from the   owing to strong winds and  . But the three were firm. It took the combined skills of Pooja and her co-pilot Sakshi to take off and maintain stability as they flew over the Bay of Bengal. Gunjan spotted the specks in the water that were fishing boats. 

 "I also spotted a Bangladesh naval ship and realised we were close to the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). I contacted the ship and informed that Bangladeshi and Indian boats had crossed the IMBL due to bad weather. Search and Rescue operations were launched and on August 15, we flew across the IMBL for joint operations with Bangladesh. It led to the rescue of more than 250 fishermen and our crew received the Director General, Coast Guard's commendation for the second time," Gunjan said. The first time the crew was honoured was after it saved the lives of six fishermen. 
 
 Pooja, Sakshi and Gunjan are an all-women crew in Prowlers Squadron under Coast Guard Headquarters (Region Northeast) in Kolkata. Sakshi was part of another crew that received the DG's commendation in 2015. "We were flying over Porbandar when we learnt of a Pakistani boat moving suspiciously towards the Indian coast. It took us six sorties, each of four hours, before we located the boat about 225 nautical miles away. The boat blew itself up at sea. Women should serve in the armed forces. It helps an individual develop into a complete person," Sakshi said.
 
 Their commanding officer K R Arun described them as women with exceptional zeal, ready to take up any challenge. "They are self-sufficient and second to none. They didn't even blink before taking off in extreme weather. I am proud of my women officers," he said. Echoing him, K R Nautiyal, IG and Commander, Coast Guard Headquarters (Region Northeast), said, "The 21 women officers in the command have surpassed our expectations and set the bar higher for men. We are allowing women officers on hovercraft and before long, they will be deployed on ships." 
 
 
