NAGPUR: There are no clear guidelines for those who want to come out clear on the scrapped currency they are holding, experts have said. The ordinance has no mention of those wanting to give up the old currency just to avoid action.

 Now a mere piece of paper, the scrapped currency will be a banned item after March 31.
 
 Chartered accountants and other experts said people can destroy the notes or surrender the currency before a designated authority, if the government appoints any in the future. Each person cannot hold more than 10   of Rs1,000 and Rs500 denomination and 25 if its for numismatic or research purposes.
 
 Officials in preventive agencies said old notes may be hauled during raids conducted on the basis of specific intelligence. The agencies like income tax department, enforcement directorate, police or CBI will be conducting the raids.
 
 Offences for holding old notes may be registered after such raids and the fine levied, said an official of one of the agencies. The ordinance says penalty can be avoided if a person proves the contravention happened without his knowledge. The fine will be levied by the magisterial court.
 
 Sleuths said not much old currency may be caught, as most of the notes have been either exchanged through the banking route or grey market. Those left with smaller amounts will not be touched as it is generally not expected to be   or other ill-gotten wealth.
 
 “Destruction is not a crime. Though valid currency cannot be destroyed since Rs1,000 and 500 notes have been banned, the notes can be destroyed,” said Kailash Jogani, a chartered accountant and president of   (NCCL).
 
 B C Bhartia, also a chartered accountant, said holding the notes will be a crime attracting fine, however destroying the money cannot be barred as it is not a legal tender and just a piece of paper.
 
 “The limit of 10 notes is for each person. So every member in the family can have 10 notes each. For anyone wanting to voluntarily surrender the notes, it can be done if the government designates an authority. The notes will have to be given up before the authority,” said Manoj Moriani, secretary of income tax bar association, Nagpur.
 
 
