With the name of different Congress leaders making rounds for the Gurdaspur byelection,   chief Sunil Jakhar was the frontrunner who was reportedly backed by top party leaders in the state as well. He was chosen by the party high command for the seat. Now fighting an outsider’s tag, Sunil Jakhar talk to TOI’s Vibhor Mohan about that and more.

 Q: You have termed this election a referendum on the   government but some see it as a verdict on Capt Amarinder Singh’s six months in the state. How is the party geared up for the election?
 
 A: The voters always make an informed choice. It’s a parliamentary election and they will take into account what has been affecting them the most. From the BJP’s misadventure of demonetization to the effects of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on the economy, the rising cooking gas and petrol prices and farmers’ plight, these issues are uppermost on people’s minds. At the same time, we will be telling them about the processes that the Congress government in the state has initiated under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh. People are wise enough to realise that six months is too short a period for any scheme to fructify. But the sincerity of the Congress is evident and some of the steps like increasing the old age pension, getting rid of the truck unions in the state, an incentive of Rs 5 per unit power for the industry and slashing of collector rates, speak of the good intent of the government to set the economy right. The decision of farm loan waiver is a path breaking decision and people will like to support Amarinder’s resolve.
 
 Q: How do you look at the contest between you and BJP’s Swaran Salaria and AAP’s Major General Khajuria (retired)?
 
 A: It’s not a contest amongst individuals as such. We are going to people with issues and they have to decide which party and which candidate can get their issues resolved by effectively raising these with the Centre and the state government. But I can say that in selecting Salaria, the BJP has relieved me of a big moral dilemma which I would have faced (in fighting Kavita Khanna) as I am a big fan of Vinod Khanna – for the good actor and wonderful human being he was. It would have been difficult for me to take on his family in these unfortunate circumstances when he is not around. Meanwhile, given the headline in most newspapers that BJP has chosen a businessman, it once again underlines the perception that the BJP is a party of the rich.
 
 Q: The   has blamed the Congress of bringing in a ‘parachute candidate.’ Any thoughts on the ‘outsider’ barb?
 
 A: The domicile certificate doesn’t mean too much. People would like to elect somebody who can raise issues concerning them and there are common issues for the whole of the state like farmers’ distress and industry going bankrupt. Moreover, when   went to fight from Jalalabad, wasn’t he an outsider. The same way, how will the BJP explain Vinod Khanna contesting from here (Gurdaspur) for so long and Arun Jaitley coming down to Amritsar to contest the 2014 election. This is morality on convenience of these parties.
 
 Q: You also fought the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ferozepur and that time the campaign was peculiar with local issues dominating the discourse as most parties were targeting the SAD-BJP state government. How do you see the agenda for this election?
 
 A: The national issues are relevant but what is happening in   is also important. The loot in the state for the past ten years has compounded the problems faced by the people and the economy is in shambles. The fact that the SAD has been relegated to the third position does not absolve the Akalis of this. I keep saying that Sukhbir Badal has a lot to answer the way they mismanaged the state treasury.
 
 Q: What about the AAP – the party has been trying to get a foothold in the Majha region with this election? Do you think it will make a mark?
 
 A: It is for the people to decide but they have no achievement to showcase. What have they contributed in the last six months, neither in the role of the opposition party nor as the ruling party in Delhi? They have been fighting among themselves. What will be their plank? The party’s candidates had lost their deposits in seven seats in the last assembly election. They have a long way ahead if the party wants to re-establish itself.
 
 Q: How reassuring was the fact that almost all local Congress leaders proposed your name as the party nominee?
 
 A: It is very reassuring and puts a big responsibility on my shoulders for the fact that party president Sonia Gandhi and chief minister Amarinder Singh chose me from among so many competent leaders.
 
