HYDERABAD: The war of words between the   and   intensified on Friday with state leader   charging the TRS government with being involved in a 2,400 crore   in awarding of   lift  . 

 Releasing documents at a press conference here, Nagam said the estimates of the four pump houses being constructed were upwardly revised in a matter of months to benefit the contracting agencies. "For example, with reference to the Narlapur pumping station, the original estimate prepared in January 2016 was 1411.37 crore. However, by June 2016, this was upwardly revised to 2025.97 crore. Thus there was an escalation of price to the tune of 614.59 crore in a matter of five months. There are four pumping stations in the Palamuru Ranga Reddy lift irrigation project and at all places, the estimates were changed to benefit the contracting agency and it totally amounts to 2,400 crore. 
 
 This is a big scam where the chief minster is involved,“ alleged Nagam.
 
 He said , original eligibility criteria were deleted along with essential clauses and not-matching eligibility conditions to suit contractors close to the CM were incorporated. “Tailor-made conditions were also not sufficient to make them qualify .The irrigation department then got the tenders of these agencies qualified after technical evolution by commissionerate of tenders. I gave this information to the vigilance commission and the CM. The vigilance report was submitted to the CM but there was no action,“ said the BJP leader.
 
 The government according administrative approval to Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme with estimated cost of `35,200 crore. Basing on detailed project report by Engineering Staff College of India, estimates were proposed. “The estimates were increased with help of a retired engineering-in-chief who is working on contract basis and who does not have any responsibility with regard to public money . Contrary to ESCI report recommendations, estimate of a pump set was increased by `61 crore resulting in total increase of `2,400 crore,“ he said.
 
