NEW DELHI: On Tuesday, Delhi’s BJP chief and MP,  , spent the night at Bheem Nagar   Basti in Delhi’s West district, on the second leg of his “reality check” campaign across Delhi’s   clusters.

 Home to nearly 5,000 people—99% of whom are Poorvanchalis—the basti, finding a kindred soul in Tiwari, flooded him with deafening pleas to improve the environment of fear and filth they live in.
 
 Enamati Devi, wife of an e-rickshaw driver, was petrified to hear someone groaning outside her jhuggi at 2am, a couple of months ago. “I heard a soft knock but did not respond. As the groans did not cease, I mustered courage to open the door. I found a boy with his throat partially slit, pleading for help,” Devi said.
 
 “Every week, there are thefts. The place has been overrun by criminals and thieves who steal mobile phones and whatever other little valuables we possess. Our jhuggi is in an isolated place and completely unlit,” Daulat Prasad, a resident of over 30 years here, said. 
 
 “I feel very scared to come out of my home at night. Please set up a high-mast light in this area,” Arti, a young girl, pleaded with the TOI team. 
 
 But this is not the least of the problems that the basti faces. A police officer of the district said that the settlement is an encroachment on lands belonging to the railways and the Delhi Jal Board. Most of the slum dwellers are daily wagers working as loaders, vegetable vendors, drivers, etc.
 
 Over 90% of the jhuggis are built over no more than 100 square feet each, over low-lying areas that are inundated by overflowing drains after a heavy downpour. Two-three generations of residents have grown to adulthood here. 
 
 Manoj Tiwari had dinner in one such house, owned by Janki Devi.“I was born in this house. I have grown up here, but the civic problems remain the same as ever,” 23-year-old Vishnu Yadav, an aspiring mobile mechanic, said. 
 
 More than the rats overrunning their houses and alleys, the lack of private toilets and bathing place for women trouble residents the most. 
 
 Tiwari engaged the whole basti at night in a mass interaction where he sang songs. When he woke up at 7am, he met children who complained that they do not get stationery, as per the government mandate, and that their schools do not have enough teachers. 
 
 This slum cluster comes under the Nangloi Jat assembly constituency, part of the North   parliamentary constituency. AAP’s Raghuvinder Shokeen is the MLA, while BJP’s   is the MP of the area.
 
 Tiwari took a note of all the requests made by the slum dwellers and, like on his first essay at Inderpuri, he extolled demonetization and urged people to use digital wallets.
 
 
