 is associated with widespread symptoms and complications. People with diabetes are at increased risk of various bone and  . According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 47 percent of people with arthritis also have diabetes. Various factors, such as nerve damage (diabetic neuropathy), arterial disease and obesity, may contribute to these problems but often the cause is not clear. Let's learn about some bone and joint problems associated with diabetes.

 
 It occurs when diabetic nerve damage causes a joint to break down. It is also known as neuropathic arthropathy, and often seen in the feet and ankles in people with diabetes. Symptoms include numbness and tingling or loss of sensation in the affected joints. Joints may become unstable, swollen or deformed with pain or pain-free.
 
 
 It's most common in people who have had diabetes for a long time. In this condition, skin on the hands becomes waxy and thickened. Eventually finger movement is limited; you may be unable to fully extend your fingers or to press your palms together flat.
 
 
 In this condition, your bones become weak and more prone to fracture. Living a healthy lifestyle and eating a well-balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D can help you to fight this condition.
 
 
  It's a most common type of arthritis characterized by the breakdown of joint cartilage. It may affect any joint in your body. Symptoms include joint pain, swelling and stiffness, as well as loss of joint flexibility or movement.   is not directly caused by diabetes; obesity increases the risk of both type 2 diabetes and osteoarthritis of weight bearing joints.
 
 
  This is characterized as hardening of tendons and ligaments that commonly affects the spine. Symptoms are pain, stiffness or decreased range of motion in any affected part of your body.
 
 
  Frozen shoulder causes pain or tenderness with shoulder movement, stiffness of the joint, and decreased range of motion. Although the cause is often unknown, diabetes is a common risk factor. At times it is only symptom in newly diagnosed diabetic individual.
 
 As a diabetic you are prone to various bone and joint disorder. However, better management of blood glucose levels, a diet rich in calcium and vitamin D, and physically active lifestyle can slow down or avoid these conditions.
 
 
 
 
