THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The protest carried out in front of the police headquarters by Jishnu Pranoy’s family in demand for justice was unnecessary, chief minister   said here on Tuesday.

 “What was their complaint? Did they gain anything new after they launched the protest? The government was doing everything possible to ensure justice to the family. Only two of the accused in the case were absconding. We understand what the family is going through. But certain organizations like the SUCI have been hijacking the protest…The family should have stayed away from people who use them for political ends,” Pinarayi told reporters at a news conference here on Tuesday. The whole issue turned murkier as Jishnu’s uncle Sreejith began to spearhead the agitation, Vijayan said. 
 
 “Calling in question Sreejith’s consistency, Vijayan said: “He changes his opinions and demands frequently…Some unfortunate events took place in front of the police headquarters. Attempts were made to use the protest for political ends…Several people like Sugathakumari and archbishop of Latin archdiocese Soosai Pakiam urged me to settle the strike through talks. But even they were not critical of the government actions in the Jishu Pranoy case,” he said.
 
 Pinarayi said the government would take action against police officials, if the inquiry proves them guilty. He also rejected the claims made by   and his mother that he was taken to police custody as the CM wanted to settle personal scores with him. “If I had to act against him, would I have waited for such a long time,” he asked.
 
 Later in the day, the chief minister's office granted appointment for Jishnu’s mother to meet the CM on April 15. The copy of the agreement reached between the family and the government, which was vetted by the  , was also handed over to Mahija’s family.
 
 Opposition leader  , meanwhile, hit out at the chief minister over his statement. He said Vijayan insulted Jishnu’s family and the entire people of the state by questioning the purpose of the agitation.
 
 Ridiculing the chief minister’s claims and justifications here on Tuesday, Chennithala said Vijayan cannot cheat people by repeating blatant lies. 
 
 “The chief minister said the government has done whatever possible in the case. It’s true. The government and police connived with the accused to sabotage the case and staged an “arrest drama” when there was no other option,” he said.
 
 “Rulers should have some compassion but Vijayan has stubbornness and pride instead,” Chennithala said.
 
