NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday indicated it wants to re-open trial in five   cases that resulted in acquittals in 1986.

 A bench of Justices Gita Mittal and Anu Malhotra took suo moto cognizance and issued show cause notices to all the accused asking why the case against them should not be re-tried or probed again, given the glaring errors made by the investigating agency.
 
 Interestingly, HC came across these   when they were cited by Congress leader Sajjan Kumar and other accused defending their acquittal by the trial court in 2013. 
 
 The court said the cases referred to by Kumar and others was “shocking our judicial conscience and compelling us to invoke our jurisdiction under Section 401 of the CrPC” to revisit the cases. In total 10 persons were acquitted in the five cases.
 
 The court came across the trial court records of these cases that were placed before it by the CBI during hearing of another 1984 riot case in which the acquittal of Congress leader Sajjan Kumar has been challenged by the agency.
 
 While going through the records, the bench observed that neither the witnesses nor the complainant were examined properly by the trial courts and the matter was decided in a “hurry”.
 
 It noted that “Prima facie the judgments reflect a very perfunctory and hasty disposal of the cases which has deeply troubled our judicial conscience,” wondering if it “would be permissible for this court to shut its eyes in the matter or does the available statutory regime and law make available any possible option for intervention at this stage?”
 
 Deciding to take suo moto cognizance, the court then directed Delhi Police to get all details of the case and fixed the matter for April 20, asking the complainants to appear before the court. The bench issued notice to various accused, including ex-councillor Balwan Khokkar, former MLA Mahender Yadav and Ved Prakash. 
 
 It also appointed a lawyer as amicus curiea in the case, P K Dey, and asked him to prepare for April 20 hearing. It observed that “given the manner in which the Delhi Police appears to have conducted itself and the failure of the prosecution in performing its basic functions, we are of the view that independent assistance is needed by this court for consideration of the case.”
 
 It noted that in some cases complainants were not even issued summons while in the rest, the summons were sent to addresses where houses were burnt during riots and therefore, could not be served, leaving the trial court without benefit of eyewitness testimony.
 
 The cases pertain to murders of Sikh men and damage to their properties in the riots which erupted in the Raj Nagar area (under the jurisdiction of Police Post Palam Colony, Police Station Delhi Cantt.) post the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.
 
 These were five out of several such complaints received at the Police Post Palam.
 
 
