PUNE: The works undertaken as a part of the smart city project have been given the thumbs down by residents of Aundh, Baner and Balewadi, and activists alike. 

 On Saturday, citizens criticized the haphazard manner in which the works were being carried out and opposed the proposed smart city tax.
 
 Claiming that the works would hardly resolve basic problems plaguing the area — traffic jams, power failures, illegal parking, inadequate water supply — local residents questioned the logic behind the proposed additional taxes. They also wondered why almost a year after taking written suggestions from local residents, the authorities have failed to incorporate them. Some of them also claimed that the focus of the works was more on aesthetics, and less on delivering basic amenities.
 
 Vaishali Patkar, of  , disapproved of the lack of communication from the side of the civic administration. She said most people were unaware of the additional taxes, and the authorities have not held talks with citizens about the proposal yet. “The projects implemented so far have not benefited people in a big way. Why must people pay more when the services are not being delivered? Local citizens did not ask for the smart city project. When they are already receiving government funds to implement the project, the authorities must explain why they need to collect tax from citizens as well,” Patkar noted.
 
 Sudarshan Jagdale, of Balewadi, added that many citizens were still unaware of the project and its benefits. “The term was used as a political tool. In Balewadi, people are struggling for basic amenities like water, drainage lines, roads and public transport. Only in the last few months has the drinking water issue been streamlined. The project should go ahead in a phased manner with a focus on basic services, and not beautification,” Jagdale said.
 
 Activists, who had gathered in Aundh, said they would soon meet senior officials and chief executive officer of Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) to raise their concerns. They added that they are ready to file a PIL in case the authorities failed to address their issues.
 
 The Aundh-Baner-Balewadi area was selected under the Smart Cities Mission to implement citizen-centric projects. Some projects were taken up on a pilot basis, and the works have been on for the past one year. 
 
 The latest work to be undertaken involves development of road stretches with separate cycle tracks, designated car and bike parking areas and redeveloped footpaths.
 
