LUCKNOW: Taking the state government’s sanitation mission to a new high,   minister   is all set to launch a campaign for community participation in the drive. “The campaign would be kicked off on the Independence Day in which the citizens would be sensitize to take part in ‘shramdaan’ every week to make their surroundings clean,” Khanna told TOI.

 The senior-most   in BJP-led state government, Khanna deftly juggles between two most crucial portfolios—parliamentary affairs and urban development—which shows his calibre and the trust he enjoys among the party leadership. Known for his out-of-the-box thinking, the eight-time MLA from Shahjahanpur has taken up the sanitation campaign as a mission, even if he has to wield the broom every week to inspire the people.
 
 Khanna is all praise for chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi for his way of walking the talk. “He didn’t just talk about cleanliness, but went all the way to offices, inspected police stations and himself cleaned dust from files. This was unprecedented. When a CM can do it, a minister can do it, an officer can do it, the people must get inspired,” he said.
 
 “I would not promise like my predecessors to turn Lucknow into London, or a paradise on earth, but in the next five years you will find a marked improvement in availability of potable water in urban as well as rural areas, lighting on the streets, cleanliness and public transport,” Khanna, who became a minister for the first time in 1991 in Kalyan Singh’s government told TOI, adding that the recent agreement between UP Jal Nigam and the Israel government was going to make revolutionary changes in availability of potable water in rural as well as urban areas of the state. 
 
 A bachelor, Khanna has devoted his life to the service of the people and has received their unflinching support. After eight consecutive victories from Shahhahanpur, he is eyeing a place in record books by breaking Congress’s Pramod Tewari record of nine consecutive wins.
 
 “In a system and politics riddled with caste prejudices, I have been winning from my constituency which hardly has 1,400 voters of my caste out of 5 lakh. It may sound like an exaggeration, but the entire constituency is my family and I can say while looking back at my political journey that castes don’t matter if there is trust in the candidate,” he says.
 
 Khanna has been the chairman of the high-power committee which recommended a   probe against two former chief secretaries. He was under tremendous pressure from all sides, but he stood by his findings and, in a first, indicted two senior most officers of the state. 
 
