HYDERABAD: Four days after the murder of IAS officer D  's driver Nagaraju, the officer's elder son Sukruth was produced in court and remanded to judicial custody. When the IAS officer complained of giddiness, he was shifted to  , where he is recovering and may be produced in court on Wednesday. 

 As per his confession, police said Sukruth hit the victim with a brick after Nagaraju attempted to sexually abuse him on the terrace of   apartments on Friday night. Nagaraju, who earlier shot a video of his sexual encounter with Sukruth, allegedly threatened to post the video on social media. Police are trying to trace the video. Sukruth, during investigation, denied having any sexual liason with the driver.
 
 "We collected scientific evidence, based on which the duo was arrested. The IAS officer and his younger son Shashank came to the apartment on Saturday to help Sukruth shift Nagaraju's body. Shashank's role will also be probed. We will ascertain whether the victim and Sukruth had sexual encounters,'' the DCP told reporters.
 
 Immediately after the murder, Sukruth left the premises and returned after two hours when he realised he forgot his bike key on the terrace. After that, Sukruth called his father and informed about the murder. "Since the body was not shifted, Rao and Sukruth planned the disposal of the body on Saturday. Accordingly, the trio went in an i10 car registered in name of IAS officer's estranged wife to the apartment complex," the official said.
 
 Police said Sukruth's bid to shift the body alerted a flat owner, Janakiram, who quizzed him. When the accused suddenly started running, other flat owners screamed "Donga, Donga" (burglar, burglar). A fruit stall owner also saw Sukruth running. On seeing him flee, Rao and Shashank left in a hurry. They got into a car and reached Madhuranagar, where Sukruth's mother resides. Sukruth went to his father's house at Begumpet.
 
 The IAS officer was arrested under Sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen) and 212 (Harbouring offender) of IPC. In the past Anti-Corruption Bureau raided Rao's house when he was working in   district. 
 
 
