NEW DELHI: The   finally came to the party on Tuesday, ensuring they lived to fight another day in this   season as they beat Hyderabad by six wickets.

 After the humiliating loss to Kings XI Punjab on last Sunday, there appeared to be an all-round improvement in Delhi's batting department, ensuring that they managed to chase down a 186-run target against   at the Ferozeshah Kotla.
 
 This was Delhi's first win after having lost five matches in a row. Leading by example, Delhi captain Karun Nair (39 off 20 deliveries) played some exquisite shots to built a solid foundation while chasing the daunting total. His innings also ensured that the asking rate didn't go beyond control after   got out on 24.
 
 Momentum was in favour of Sunrisers after an impressive 70 from Yuvraj Singh but local lad Rishabh Pant (34 off 20 balls), who was promoted up the order, displayed some fearless stroke-making to make Delhi believe they could chase the total down.
 
 Middle-order batsman Shreyas Iyer (33 off 25 deliveries) too made his mark with the bat while Corey Anderson remained unbeaten on 41 with   (15 not out). There was a sense of urgency in the body language of the Delhi team as well.
 
 In total, Delhi had five good partnerships in their run chase. None of Hyderabad's bowlers were able to stop the flow of runs, except Rashid Khan to an extent. The best part about Delhi's performance was the way they kept scoring at a brisk rate without thinking too much about the end result.
 
 Earlier, on a Ferozeshah Kotla pitch that wasn't exactly pacy, Sunrisers managed to get to an impressive 185 for the loss of three wickets in their 20 stipulated overs after being asked to bat first.
 
 They didn't get off to the most impressive of starts either, having lost their three main top-order batsmen -captain David Warner, opener   and Kane Williamson -within the first 12 overs. Still, they didn't lose momentum, thanks to Yuvraj Singh's outstanding 70 off 41 deliveries. The southpaw shared an important 93-run stand from 51 deliveries for the fourth wicket with Moises Henriques. Their combined effort saw the visitors scoring 52 runs in the last three overs.
 
 Among the Delhi bowlers, Amit Mishra had the best bowling figures, flighting the ball more than pushing it through the air. Shami, playing in place of the injured captain Zaheer Khan, bowled a good line.
 
