BHOPAL: Tuesday’s cabinet meet turned into   as chief minister   decided to   with his   to sink differences, and develop bonhomie. However, the concept did not go down well with the Congress as the opposition party, dismissed it as a ‘political drama.’ 

 After a series of setback in Cabinet meetings where Chouhan had to caution his colleagues to remain present during crucial discussions and decisions, the chief minister organised the ‘tiffin’ cabinet so that cabinet ministers could share their home cooked meal with each other and shed the informal attitude.
 
 “I think this is a unique initiative where chief minister encouraged cabinet colleagues to share their views while having lunch. In BJP, this is a tradition called Goth and it will continue further,’ said state public relations minister Narottam Mishra who clarified the reporters about the much talked about tiffin party, on Tuesday.
 
 He said from May 20 onward, chief minister Chouhan will visit a district to speak on the ideology of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay and share tiffin with BJP workers after the meeting. He will visit every district and hold tiffin parties in the afternoon or evenings, Mishra said.
 
 Ministers who participated in the   were elated over the initiative. They said such parties should be held once a quarter or as per the convenience. This would not only encourage an informal chat between the cabinet colleagues but also spread the message of social equality which is the motto of BJP, said the minsiters.
 
 “I am happy to attend the party. While I served carrot to chief minister, he also shared meal which he got from his home. This was a unique experiment and we must carry on with such initiatives to promote informal talks between the cabinet colleagues and spread the message of social equality'', state power and renewable energy minister Paras Jain told TOI.
 
 He said Madhya Pradesh has a tradition of taking initiatives and chief minister was a pioneer as party national president is also visiting states and organising such `tiffin lunch'. This also proves cheaper than the lunch parties organised at the cost of state exchequer, said Jain.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan served home-made Aloo Vadas he got to his cabinet colleagues while having meals from ministers’ lunch boxes.
 
 The ministers served recipes like aloo mutter, aloo tamatar and aloo gobhi, a few also took chance to offer traditional sweet dish like gulab jamun and rasagulla. The ministers were happy to see that there was a warm response to their queries and jokes were taken in a lighter vein. 
 
 “It reminds me of my school days where we used to share meals with our classmates. This will do away with the barrier, if any, between the cabinet colleagues and encourage them for an informal talk. I think this is a unique experience and should continue,” said minister of state (independent) for culture and tourism, Surendra Patwa. 
 
 While, the tiffin cabinet became talk of the town, ministers also sought that such meets should be organised out of the capital. It was Congress who dubbed the whole exercise as a political drama.
 
 “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is involved in cheap publicity to remain in the headlines and ignore public sufferings. The BJP government is apathetic towards public grievance and chief minister and his colleagues must act serious on their problems'', alleged leader of opposition Ajay Singh.
 
 
