LUDHIANA: Police are on the hunt for a gang of robbers who struck at three places in this industrial town on Sunday night.

 In one such strike, seven to eight robbers entered a garment factory in Phase 8 of Focal Point after holding the watchmen captive on Sunday night.
 
 In his complaint to police,  , general manager of India Clothing League Private Limited, said the miscreants thrashed two watchmen,   and  , on duty before locking them up inside the security room. He said the miscreants had taken away garments and fabric rolls from the factory premises.
 
 “They (robbers) were seven or eight in number. They removed a SIM card from the mobile phone of a watchman, so that police could not be informed. However, one watchman succeded in hiding his cellphone and later informed the security officer, who called up the general manager,“ he said.
 
 Mishra told cops, “They stayed inside the premises for around two hours and even tried to break open the locker, but failed to do so. They took away 20,000 pieces of garment and 130 fabric rolls,“ he said. The robbers took away the stolen goods in a fourwheeler in which they had come, he said.
 
 The police have registered a case of theft, trespass, assault and criminal intimidation against unidentified persons.
 
 A similar incident was reported about two weeks ago at a cycle and auto parts' factory on the RK Road. The modus operandi was the same. In that case too, miscreants had held watchmen captive, removed SIM cards from their phones and arrived in a fourwheeler.
 
 However, inquiry officer from Focal Point police station sub-inspector   said though the modus operandi was the same, the accused in the previous case have been arrested.
 
 In another incident, a hosiery unit was in Salem Tabri was robbed in the wee hours of Monday . Police said the burglars stole two mobile phones from the factory and then struck at a branch of  .
 
 “The thieves broke the bank's window to gain entry. There, they tried to open the strong room, but could not.They then escaped with two computers,“ a cop said.
 
 The bank is merely 100 metres from the area police station.
 
 The theft came to light on Monday morning, when the employees found the bank ransacked and two computers missing. No guard was on night duty despite the administration's instructions to banks to ensure round-theclock security.
 
 Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Mohammad Jamil said, “We checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the bank. But it hardly gave any leads as the burglars had turned those towards the wall to avoid getting captured.“
 
 There were clear instructions to all banks to deploy security guard round-the-clock.But the bank erred on this.The police would take up the issue with the bank's higher authorities, the SHO added.
 
