PUNE: The new Rs 67 crore, six-storeyed collectorate, constructed as a green building at  , is awaiting chief minister Devendra Fadnavis's time for a formal inauguration.

 The date was fixed for Sunday but with no confirmation from the CM's office, the inauguration will be postponed to a further date, officials said.
 
 Collectorate officials confirmed that the function would be conducted in the first half of the next month and by mid-October, they would begin work from the new building which has a Griha rating for being an environmentalfriendly structure.
 
 The earlier building was 134 years old and the structure was pulled to make way for the new building keeping the heritage structure intact.
 
 Resident deputy collector   told TOI that the building is fully ready .“There were some minor changes and some work on the interiors remain. However, with the remaining work completed, the offices can shift to the new building,'' he added.
 
 A completion certificate from Pune Municipal Corporation and other NOCs will arrive soon. Only the interior works of the new building remain,   assistant engineer Vinay Kulthe, who has been monitoring the project, said.
 
 “We have got all the clearances and we will be issued the sanctions shortly . We only have the interior works worth Rs 11crore to complete and we hope to get the funds in the second phase of the budget release in December,'' he added.Officials can begin working from the premises, he added.
 
 At present, the entry to the collectorate is from the main   entrance with the Bund Garden police station in between the building and the entrance. “Once permission to move the police station is granted, it will help in giving a clear view of the collectorate. Officials of the revenue as well as that of the police department have already discussed the relocation.The revenue department has already suggested another government land,“ the official added.
 
 District revenue depart ment officials have floated a proposal to shift the Bund Garden police station to an alternative spot for providing easy access to the new collectorate near  .
 
 As per the proposal, the officials have sought to shift the police station to the adjacent   building first before identifying land in the same area to eventually move it. “The proposal has to be cleared by the police commissioner,“ a district revenue department official told TOI.
 
 Police officials confirmed that the proposal was being examined at the highest level.
 
