PANAJI: Following a lot of hue and cry from tourists as well as locals over the exorbitant fares charged by tourist   drivers, the government has finally decided to initiate talks with operators next month to arrive at a solution to the problem. Taxi operators are most likely to be asked to come up with a software along the lines of those used by app-based cab services like   and Uber to conduct a their businesses in a healthy and transparent manner, even though the government is not very keen on having app-based cabs plying in the state.
 
  TOI also had conducted, in 2016, a campaign to highlight the problem of taxis charging skyhigh fares in Goa, and thus presenting a negative image of the state to tourists.
  
  Senior officials said the government will hold the meeting with taxi owners at a time when tourist footfall is low to ensure there is no law and order problem in the state. “In the next three months, we will come up with a solution to the issue after discussing the matter with taxi operators,” an official said.
  
  With tourists relying heavily on taxis to travel within the state, drivers often charge exorbitant fares, violating all journey rules. “If visitors ask for the details of the   structure, insults are hurled at them and that too, in presence of their family members,” government sources said.
  
  As per standard RTO rules, passengers are to be charged only for the distance covered by them. It is only in Goa that operators levy charges even for their own return journeys, sources said.
  
  The government has received a lot of complaint from tourists regarding the exorbitant taxi fares they are forced to pay. The chief minister’s office has followed up on several of these complaints and even fined taxi operators as much as Rs 6,000 for fleecing tourists.
  
  In 2013, Ola had announced that it would launch operations in the state, but forced to renege on their plans faced with agitation from taxi operators which prompted government intervention in the matter.
  
  Later, the government had proposed that taxis in the state install digital meters in an attempt to streamline the fare structure, but the objective could not be achieved as operators refused to follow instructions.
