PUNE: Groundwater is a finite source and the fact that it is being pumped dry is an alarming situation, said Swapnil Potdar, co-founder, Ira Sustainable Water Solutions.

 He was speaking at a   workshop held recently at St. Joseph Girls’ High School, Pashan for Std. VII to IX.
 
 In his presentation, Potdar showed the imbalance of water supply and demand, as well as the climatic changes disturbing the ecosystem. These extreme and unfit situations can be managed through rainwater harvesting, Potdar said. He also spoke about the importance of hydrological surveys that help in identifying places requiring groundwater recharging and explained the architecture of a rainwater harvesting system.
 
 “Rainwater harvesting is no more an optional activity. Just like you cannot withdraw money from an empty bank account, you cannot withdraw water from empty aquifers,” said Potdar. 
 
 Eshna Sengupta of class IX said, “We didn’t know that water crisis is so severe. The cost of water is, thus, increasing day by day. I will use water judiciously at home and educate my parents, peers and others about the necessity of water conservation.”
 
 Water saving aerator, a device to augment water conservation, was introduced at the workshop. When fitted to taps, it can cut down water wastage from 15 litres/minute to 1.9 litres/minute.
 
 The workshop was conducted by Potdar, along with Vrushali Potdar, marketing head at Ira. The firm aims to make residential complexes and industries self-sufficient with regard to water conservation and use. 
 
 Blossom wins Young Explorer Project Competition
 
 A team from   bagged the first prize for their project ‘RC Aircraft, terrestrial and aquatic rescue vehicle’ at the Young Explorer Project Competition-2017 organized recently by Muktangan Exploratory Science Centre, Nigdi for students from classes V to X. As many as 11 students from the school participated in five groups and presented their ideas using scientific concepts.
 
 NEMS launch scientific platforms for students 
 
 New English Medium primary and secondary schools recently launched the   and Khula Aasmaan platforms for students, under the ambit of   (DES) and Vigyan Bharati. Nearly 400 students from different DES schools were present on the occasion. Kamalakar Kshirsagar, joint secretary of Bharatiya Vigyan Sammelan was the chief guest. Mukund Deshpande, Swati Jogalekar and Milind Sathe, DES life members; Sujata Naidu, headmistress,   and Abha Telang, headmistress of New English Medium Secondary School (NEMSS) were also present at the launch.
 
 Kshirsagar spoke to students about his research on honeybees and also emphasized on fostering a scientific attitude for even small works. Students were urged to make the best use of these platforms. The programme concluded with a ‘Science day song’ by the students of New English Medium Primary School.
 
 A science exhibition was also held by the the students of NEMSS after the programme.
 
