HYDERABAD: Opposition parties and civil society groups have said they will confront the government to protect their right to protest in the city, in particular at   near Indira Park.

 On Thursday, representatives of all political parties minus the ruling TRS called on the Governor seeking his intervention to ensure that not only is the people's right to protest protected, but also the spot that has become synonymous with protests in the city. On the same day, Telangana   headed by Prof M   called for a meeting of like-minded people on March 21. “Come to Dharna Chowk carrying Bathukammas, Bonalu, Alams (Standards) as well as tools of various trades. Show this government that it cannot rob us of our right to peacefully assembly, protest and make our voice heard,“ Kodandaram said.
 
 At the Raj Bhavan, political parties led by their state presidents called on the Governor and urged him to use his “good office in the democratic effort not only to protect the Dharna Chowk, which is a democratic space in the heart of the city, but also uphold the rights guaranteed by the Constitution.“
 
 Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, after meeting with the Governor said Narasimhan informed them that he would look into the matter.
 
 In their representation, the parties said Dharna Chowk has been the place where people have articulated their concerns over two decades. They said “all over the world, democratic countries have been offering places in the midst of the cities to express dissent.“ But now, the Telangana government has “deliberately, and with every intention to snuff out dissent“, decided to move the Dharna Chowk, the epicentre of the Telganana agitation to the outskirts of the city. The government denying per missions to to protest is a violation of constitutional rights and a display of authoritarian, dictatorial tendencies of the state government, they said.
 
 The delegation comprised of Uttam Kumar Reddy, Dr K Laxman (BJP), L Ramana (TDP), R Krishnaiah of National BC Welfare Association, Chada Venkat Redd (CPI),   (MRPS),   of RPI and representatives of TJAC, New Democracy CPM and leaders from the CPM.
 
