On Women's Day, student collective   was to demonstrate outside the office of the UGC ( ) near ITO to demand that certain anti-harassment measures be implemented. But with Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, the minister for Women and Child Development (WCD), having made her “lakshman rekha” and “hormonal outburst” comments about hostel curfews just a couple of days ago, the protest soon snowballed and moved to Shastri Bhawan, which houses the WCD ministry. 

 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
  Intially, the protestors assembled outside the UGC's office on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, carrying a memorandum for the implementation of its circular dated May 2, 2016. They protested against the commission's "inability to strictly implement the 2015 regulations on the prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment of women employees and students in higher educational institutes." The protestors moved from there after no representative from the UGC's office came outside to collect the memorandum. 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 
 The protesters soon left ITO and marched towards Shastri Bhawan, after raising slogans of 'aazadi' and 'UGC darta hai, police ko aage karta hai'. Many held placards saying 'Ae curfew hai mushkil', 'Maine patriarchy se breakup kar liya', 'Main thoda late aayi toh hungama ho gaya'. At Shastri Bhawan, many chanted '  bahar aao', 'Maneka Gandhi hoshiyar,' etc. Subhashini Shriya, a protester, said, "Hum toh ek hi demonstration kar rahe thay par humari minister ne yeh sab keh diya, toh socha do alag protest kya karne? Ek hi din do jagah aa gaye."
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
  
 Addressing the members, Devangana Kalita, one of the key members of the collective, said, "The WCD minister said that there should be early curfews for women. Agar woh nahi hoga, toh humein ‘hormonal outburst’ ho jayega. We have gathered here to understand, what does she mean by 'lakshman rekha'?"
 
 
 
  
  The protesters tried to climb the gate of Shastri Bhawan, which houses the WCD ministry (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
