PUNE: Sternly criticizing the   (DRM), B K Dadabhoy, for his “anti-national” remark on the issue of stopping Deccan   on July 10, the railway   are planning to send a letter to railway minister Suresh Prabhu.

 Harsha Shah, the president of the Railway Pravasi Group, said if the acts of the passengers were anti-national, why the officials did not book them under the same act. “The statement made by the DRM is not in good taste at all. I am not saying that stopping a train is good. It hassles the passengers and the railways incurs losses. The railway act has provisions for punishment for the same. But terming it an anti-national act is too much,” Shah told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Dadabhoy had stirred up a storm on Wednesday saying the act of stopping   for an hour on July 10 was an anti-national activity and was unpardonable.
 
 Shah claimed that she had called up the general manager of the Central Railway and the personal assistant of the railway minister. “I will be writing a letter to Prabhu for this,” she said.
 
 A regular passenger of the Pune-Daund DMU expressed similar views. “There has been one problem after another with the DMU train after its launch, affecting many passengers. Should I say that the railways has been anti-national because it has not been able to provide a good service to the passengers? The train always had technical issues and freak cases of sparks and smoke billowing out. The passengers who stopped Deccan Queen were frustrated and they acted as a result of it,” the passenger said.
 
 Vikas Deshpende, the secretary of the Daund-Pune Pravasi Sangh, said while stopping the train was not right, the senior official should have maintained composure. “The term ‘anti-national’ has been used to describe the action of three women, whose only offence was being a part of a protest group that stopped the train. The passengers got frustrated after the railways did not revert the train to platform No. 1, as they had assured earlier. The passengers should have approached the DRM, who would have listened to their grievance,” Deshpande said.
 
