Chandigarh: It is often said that the road to Punjab Vidhan Sabha passes through the Malwa region. This time,   has reserved its final push for this crucial region before campaigning comes to a close on February 2.

 With half of the state’s total 22 districts, Malwa has 69 of the 117 assembly constituencies and the party has worked out a detailed strategy to take on the rivals, especially Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).
 
 Sources said that an internal survey of the Congress has indicated that the party was on a strong footing in the other two regions – winning 15 of the 22 seats in Doaba and 19 of the 23 seats in Majha. However, in Malwa it had an edge in 35 seats and the party decided to bolster its presence by using the influence of its key leaders. In the 2012 election, the Congress tally here had reduced from 37 to 32.
 
 It is believed that the decision to field Punjab Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh from Lambi (Muktsar), along with Patiala, was also taken with the objective that it will have an impact on the adjoining assembly constituencies.
 
 It has been followed up with three-day tour of party vice-president   to Bathinda and Lambi areas on January 28 and 29. Party’s star campaigner   too is scheduled to address public meetings in parts of Malwa over the next few days. He has already been campaigning in the Majha region.
 
 “There are districts such as Barnala, Mansa and Sangrur where the party hopes that its tall leaders from its key assembly will be able to have a spill over impact of their popularity. Leaders like Sunil Jakhar (contesting from Abohar) will help the party in Firozpur area and Rajinder Kaur Badal (Lehra Gaga) will turn the tide in Congress’s favour in Sangrur, along with Vijay Inder Singla (also Sangrur). In Bathinda, Manpreet Badal has been campaigning outside his constituency of Bathinda Rural,” said a Congress leader.
 
 “The announcement of Amarinder as the chief ministerial candidates must have already brightened the party’s chances of some of these seats in Malwa,” said another leader.
 
 In the last assembly election in 2012, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) managed to script history with a second term by claiming 37 seats in the Malwa region. Some of the Congress’s most prominent candidates lost their seats to the SAD nominees. These included: Raninder Singh in Samana; Harminder Singh Jassi, Bathinda Urban; Makhan Singh, Bathinda Rural; Mangat Rai Bansal, Maur; Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Rampura Phul; Ripjeet Singh Brar, Kotkapura; and Avtar Singh Brar in Faridkot.
 
 
