BENGALURU: Scientists shouldn’t be working for awards, Nobel laureate   (Venki) said on Saturday, adding that if anything, prizes are only milestones in their long careers, which are  .

 Speaking at the award ceremony of the eighth edition of  , Venki said: “Anyone who has won this award or even other scientists will tell you that they didn’t work hard thinking there would be a big prize at the end of it.” But prizes, he said, do serve a useful purpose — they give publicity to scientists and help create role models, and they must exist. 
 
 “Sportspersons, actors and a host of others always get publicity while scientists keep working quietly. I think it is important that they are given some publicity as they create an impact greater than any other professional, which needs to be recognized,” he said.
 
 Citing examples of the US and Japan, Venki argued that economic growth often precedes scientific growth. “While poorer countries can start by exploiting discoveries made in other parts of the world, there must be a conscious effort in creating a scientific environment within such countries.”
 
 Stating that basic, applied and translational science and technology do not have a linear relationship, he said: “Even to reap the benefits of someone else’s discovery, you need to have a great understanding of basic science. The Bay area in the US for example, always has the first-mover advantage as people there are aware of the scientific discoveries being made and have the understanding to exploit them well.”
 
 He said while India boasts of several eminent scientists, the country needs to achieve more, given its size. “Resources do not create wealth; science and innovation do. To be able to be the best in science we need to invest in science, and India has been underinvesting.”
 
 Private industries are also to be blamed, he said, adding that in the West, the ratio between government and private investments in research and development is 1:2. “Our industries are just not investing enough in R&D and that must change...There must also be a great deal of work in basic science; we need to encourage young scientists to take up research,” he concluded.
 
