CHENNAI: The main task before the   is to equip the 1.3 crore students to handle the enormous changes expected over the next decade, former   and state curriculum framework committee head M Anandakrishnan has said.

 “One of the main challenges is to create a learning system by which they are able to keep up with the changes and be knowledgeable,” he said on Thursday at the inaugural of the three-day seminar on developing a new curriculum, the first such in a decade.
 
 Students must be made aware of the fundamentals behind the knowledge they are gaining instead of being asked to memorise content, Anandakrishnan said. “...they must be able to relate the gained knowledge to society. This requires a teaching and learning system compatible to the learning capacity of students... we have to train a large number of teachers to perform such functions.”
 
 A good environment and infrastructure and an exam system that doesn’t look just to filter students are needed and universities should be made to develop interest in school education.
 
 Special attention should be paid to the way the texts and other material are designed to engage children and look to integrate technological advancements in the learning process is a challenge, Anandakrishnan said.
 
 School education secretary T Udhayachandran said they were in talks with big names in publishing and were also developing material in different formats. “By next June, print copies will have versions like e-books, workbooks, video lessons. We want application of ICT in the content,” he said.
 
 Concept based teacher training is on for the existing curriculum and evaluation patterns. 
 
 Udhayachandran said the aim was to adopt an inclusive approach to consulting stakeholders in developing the curriculum.
 
 “Another purpose is to identify a cream of teachers for textbook writing. We also want to have localised content in texts. Panellists in the sessions will help develop the curriculum further. At the end of such sessions, we hope to have a pruned list of talent that can be used for enhancing curriculum framework,” he said.
 
 Over the next two days, the 800 teachers ICT experts from across subjects will get a feel of texts from different state boards and central boards of education in simultaneous sessions at Anna University, IIT Madras and the Anna Centenary Library.
 
 Academicians from government oriented organisations, educationists, activists, NGOs and members from the British Council, Cambridge and others will be present.
 
 
