LUCKNOW: In a bid to ensure  , the   has drawn a Rs 600-crore plan to replace 8,000 old and   across the state by June 25. This came after the state government signed in for Centre’s 24x& power-for-all scheme. The Chief Minister Office has asked UP energy department to carry out a drive to replace at all overloaded distribution   with new and higher capacity ones, besides constructing high-power transmission sub-stations in four other districts.

 Sources in UP Power Corporation Limited said state government has allocated Rs 600 crore for replacement of 8,000 old and under capacity transformers by June 25. This would be the biggest ever transformer replacement drive undertaken by energy department in recent times.
 
  managing director Vishal Chauhan confirmed the corporation has ordered for 8,000 higher capacity transformers. “The corporation identified spots where replacement is needed,” said Chauhan, speaking to TOI. The replacement of transformers, he said, is needed equally in almost all distribution companies. As per the scheme of things, 63KVA and 250KVA capacity would be replaced by 100KVA and 400KVA, respectively.
 
 Chauhan said the practice earlier was to replace the old transformers with the new, but same capacity, ones. “The fresh exercise identifies the area as per demand and load and then replace the old transformers with ones that have higher capacity,” he said. UPPCL sources said there is also a large number of complaints about power tripping despite UP government’s promise of 24 and 18 hours of power supply to urban and rural areas, respectively. 
 
 State government is also in the process of getting new transmission substation constructed in Banda (400KV), Hapur (765KV), Indrapuram in Ghaziabad (400KV) and Bijnor (400 KV). The four additional sub-stations are besides 20 in various parts of the state. Chauhan said high capacity transmission substations would ease congestion on transmission lines.
 
 The June 25 deadline has also been fixed for electrification of around 23,000 ‘majras’ in UP. ‘Majra’ is a hamlet with a population of around 100. According to UPPCL records, Poorvanchal Distribution Company catering to east UP, leads the list with nearly 9000 un-electrified majras, followed by Dakshinanchal which has around 7,500. Madhyanchal and Paschimanchal have 5,000 and 2,345 such hamlets yet to be electrified.
 
 
