PUNE: The Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) state unit president Raosaheb Danve on Monday said the   and the Congress had a ‘secret settlement’ for the civic polls in the state, particularly in Mumbai.

 They have fielded weak and “adjustable” candidates against each other in the wards where one of them is strong, he added.
 
 Though Shiv Sena leaders are targeting BJP in the election campaign in Mumbai, Danve said his party has decided not to respond to these allegations as their opponents were the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party. 
 
 "Voters will give a reply," he said, adding that the BJP will win and form governments in the local bodies. “We have seen the candidates of the Shiv Sena and the Congress for the Mumbai polls. The lists of both parties clearly point to some ‘settlement’ to help each other by fielding weak candidates. Sena will help Congress in wards where it has a strong presence and Congress will do the same in areas dominated by Sena. A similar ‘settlement’ has been worked out by both parties at other places in the state,” Danve said at a news conference after he travelled to Sinhagad fort where BJP candidates for the civic polls in Pune were given an oath of transparency and corruption-free practices.
 
 Danve said voters have expressed faith in the BJP-led state government. In the recent municipal council polls, the BJP emerged as the number one party with huge support from voters all over the state. The party will win in Pune and be in power. It has fielded candidates in every panel for the first time, Danve added.
 
 He refuted allegations that leaders had taken money for candidatures. Every candidate has a maximum spending limit of Rs 10 lakh for the civic polls. The money collected from candidates was part of the spending which the party will incur for the campaign, he added.
 
 On Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s remarks on whether BJP leaders would take an oath to keep the state united, Danve said BJP will consider the people’s sentiments and will never force bifurcation that will lead to unrest among people. Chief minister   has said he is the chief minister of a united Maharashtra, he said.
 
