The Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign pitch in Uttar Pradesh is getting eerily similar to its campaign in Bihar more than a year ago, even as the party is hoping for a drastically different result this time.
 
  If in Bihar, it was criticising the grand alliance for being an “opportunistic alliance done by two sworn enemies (JDU and RJD) for their political survival”, in UP Prime Minister   is putting the same charge on   and  , questioning how they have embraced each other after   slammed   for months and even took out a yatra saying “27 saal, UP behal (UP suffering for 27 years)”.
  
    warned the crowds in Bihar that ‘jungle-raj’ would be back in Bihar if Lalu Prasad storms to power in league with Nitish Kumar. In UP,   is reeling out figures of crimes under Akhilesh Yadav government to make law and order in UP the biggest plank of his party’s pitch for power in the state.
  
  If in Bihar, the PM advocated the same government in Bihar and the Centre to avoid a situation where the state does not utilise the money sent by the Centre, Modi did the same in Aligarh two days ago when he read out figures saying how UP did not let the money sent by Centre for development projects percolate to the people.
  
  Even the question posed by the PM in Bihar – where he repeatedly asked the crowd, “bijli aayi (did you get power supply)?”, only to be met with a muted response – is being repeated in UP where the PM has promised his focus on the acronym VIKAS (vidyut, or electricity, kanoon or law and order, and sadak or roads).
  
  BJP’s opponents have been quick to point out the similarities. Congress vice president   Gandhi has said BJP will suffer the same fate in UP as in Bihar and took a jibe at the PM saying he has never spoken about Bihar ever since his party lost the polls there.
  
  
 
  
  The “Rs 15 lakh not coming in account” jibe of Lalu Prasad has been borrowed by Akhilesh and Rahul for their speeches in UP. SP leaders say the PM’s attack on the ruling party for bad roads is way off the mark, similar to his attack on Nitish Kumar on electricity, given that work has actually happened in the state on this score.
  
  But BJP says the SP has lots to answer for on law and order. In Bihar, the prospect was of a worse crime situation emerging once Lalu Prasad joined the government, but such a scenario already exists in UP, BJP leaders claim. Some things are different.
  
  While BJP’s Bihar hoardings were dominated by faces of Modi and Amit Shah fanning the ‘Bihari versus Bahari’ critique, BJP in UP has been wiser to project UP netas, even though there is again no CM face. BJP feels UP is much different from Bihar with more urban seats and lack of a “real” grand alliance given   is not part of the same.
  
  Rahul and Akhilesh, however, appear confident that there exists a big factor in UP like the one that kept BJP at bay in Bihar. If it was the reservation comment of RSS’ supremo Mohan Bhagwat in Bihar, it is   in UP which will sink BJP in UP, the two leaders have indicated in their speeches.
  
  While Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar milked the Bhagwat reservation comment in Bihar elections, Rahul and Akhilesh are stressing on the discomfort caused to people due to demonetisation. UP’s verdict could therefore be the referendum on demonetisation that BJP wishes for. 
