NAGPUR: For the BJP, now comes the difficult part. Nagpurians have given an overwhelming mandate to the party in   (NMC) and now it has to fulfill the plethora of promises it made to the citizens. There are too many assurances that are nowhere near fruitition and party’s leaders are silent on how they will meet even the basic civic requirements of the citizens.

 Nagpurians are hoping Union transport minister   and chief minister   would ensure development of the city on the basis of their pronouncements. The credibility of the two leaders will be tested in the coming months.
 
 One of the biggest problems is the poor condition of city’s roads. NMC is building a large number of cement roads and Gadkari has sanctioned a large number of flyovers and road overbridges (ROBs) in the city. However, BJP leaders remain silent on the issue of tar roads. Whenever, they are asked about poor condition of tar roads, they talk about cement roads. Not every road in the city is going to be concretized. There is no getting away from improving the quality of tar roads. 
 
 This does not need huge funds, only strict quality control. The contractor and NMC engineers in-charge of roads are not punished if quality of work is poor. This is root cause of the problem. If BJP is serious about raising the standard to where it has promised, then whip has to be cracked on guilty parties. Sadly, there is no such promise in party’s manifesto.
 
 Water supply is another area of concern. BJP in its manifesto promises to provide 24x7 supply. However, it does not give a timeframe for completing the project. Currently, many localities are being supplied water by tankers. Others are getting it on alternate days. This is simply unacceptable for a city that claims to be the model for water supply.
 
 Public transport is another area. The party which takes pride in executing   project has miserably failed in providing a decent city bus service. Starbus operator   has been ousted but the new ones are yet to make any perceptible difference. The 50 green buses are nowhere to be seen. If Gadkari and Fadnavis seriously wanted people to switch over to public transport, NMC will have to provide a proper city bus service. Unfortunately, there is no promise about this in party’s manifesto.
 
 Garbage collection is something that leaves a lot to be desired. This is the first item on BJP’s manifesto. While the party promises many new steps to keep the city clean, all it has to do is to be strict with the private operator Kanak Resources.
 
 The rejuvenation of Nag and Pili rivers and city lakes and laying a new sewage system is pending due to lack of funds. Gadkari had got the rejuvenation of Nag river approved from Centre months ago but NMC is yet to receive a single rupee. The minister is silent as to when the funds will be finally disbursed.
 
