LUCKNOW: In direct reply to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s allegation that Modi government had waived off loans taken by big business houses, Union finance and commerce minister   said the allegation was false. 

 “Whatever Rahul has been saying at various public meetings is completely away from truth,” said Jaitley, adding that such a big leader should not speak like this. Rahul Gandhi should update his knowledge that since it came to power on May 26, 2014, Modi government has not waived any loans given to any big industrialist. 
 
 “The truth is that loans were taken in 2006,’07 and 2008 and their interest has been increasing due to non-payment,” said Jaitley. 
 
 In the same vein, he hit out at Akhilesh government for spreading false allegations that Centre has stopped sending   to states. “The share of states, which was 28% earlier was increased to 32% and now it is 42% for various schemes like MNREGA, etc,” said Jaitley, adding that no Central government can reduce that share. 
 
 On a daylong visit to Lucknow, Jaitley replied to a quesiton at the press conference saying demonetisation should not be linked with the elections. “It was part of our programme to clean the system and bring political reforms,” he said repeating a line from his budget speech: “A good cause never loses”. 
 
 The opposition was united against the demonetisation decision while the common man appreciated this move of the Modi government, claimed the Union minister. Hitting out at the SP government, Jaitley said the Central government allocated Rs 3.96 lakh crores for infrastructure and helped construct 10,000km road in the country every year, while the SP Government is taking credit for one partially completed highway built in five years.
 
 Attacking the SP-Congress tie-up, Jaitley said it is an alliance of compulsion. “In the past, Samajwadis were against Congress. Ram Manohar Lohia was the first leader in 1960s to give the slogan “Congress hataao desh bachao (remove Congress to save the country) but the present Samajwadi Party prefers dynasty over ideology and is cheating public,” he added. 
 
 Jaitley claimed there was a huge wave in favour of BJP in Uttar Pradesh and signs were visible in the BJP winning many elections in the recent past, hence the party was all set to form government in the  . 
 
 Like national BJP chief Amit Shah, Jaitley too said there was a triangular fight as was evident in phase one with BSP also putting up fight at several seats in West UP. 
 
 
