INDORE: Aerodrome police on Thursday arrested two accused involved in the incidents of loot and   at different places around the city.

 Four drunken men went on a rampage and looted several people of cash before killing an innocent man in front of a wine shop on MR 11 on Wednesday.
 
 The spree went on for over eight hours. Four people were looted and attacked.
 
 In the first incident around 2:30 pm, the drunkards attacked Ramneval as he walked past Yadav Dairy in Chota Bangarda. The accused abused him and when he asked them not to do so, they beat him up.
 
 The accused then went a short distance when they spotted loading rickshaw driver Jitendra Sikarwar as he was on his way home. They stopped him and asked him to shell out money and threatened to kill him. He gave them the Rs 28,850 he collected throughout the day. There were many people at the spot who watched Jitendra get thrashed but none came forward to rescue him.
 
 The accused then stopped a city bus on its way to Chota Bangarda from   around 2:20 pm and thrashed the driver and conductor Aman Jain. They took Rs 2,000 from Jain. They had come on a black pulsar, said driver Manoj Kumar Aloney. They also took Manoj’s mobile. The bus incident was recorded in the   installed over the driver’s seat.
 
 Meanwhile, police were informed about the incident by the victims, following which investigations were initiated and while police were on the lookout for the accused, they committed the murder at MR 11.
 
 The miscreants reached a liquor store at MR 11 in Lasudia to drink some more when one of them, Sachin, kicked a poultry animal owned by Laad Singh, who owns a meat shop here. Laad shouted at the accused, following which the matter escalated and the accused first stabbed him and crushed his head using big stones. They also ran behind Laad’s brother Anil.
 
 “Darshan alias Vicky Prabhakar Lambhate Maratha (21) and Rahul both residents of  , were arrested and booked. Two others, Kailash and Sachin, are still at large,” said Rupesh Dwivedi, ASP.
 
 “CCTV footage were gathered and the vehicle registration number was determined,” said Dwivedi.
 
 
