NEW DELHI: Twenty-three-year-old Noor Isani (name changed) has found her best laid plans coming unstuck in the last few days. Just when she was all set to apply to an American university for business, US President Donald   came up with his executive order banning entry of citizens from several Muslim nations.

 Though the order and proposed crackdown on H1B visas do not directly touch Indian students, the changed environment in the US under the new dispensation has left her confused. “The US still remains my first option but I have been advised by my overseas counsellor to consider other countries like Canada,’’ Noor says. Eduabroad Consulting’s Pratibha Jain says there is panic among students planning to travel overseas and even more among those studying in the US. “Those studying have already invested and are now suddenly unsure of the job scenario. For those who are still in India, we are advising them to look at   and Europe for further studies, but employment opportunities everywhere are very limited. We feel it may better for them to continue working in India and wait it out for six months,’’ she says.
 
 Rajiv Ganjoo of White-Glow Consulting, another overseas education consultant, says the new rules have created uncertainty and could affect the choices students make. “I think a good number of students will start looking at other countries. Schools in Asia-Pacific and Canada couldbenefit,’’ he says.
 
 Recent data from UK’s   Statistics Agency show a decline in the number of Indian students to the UK by 44% —from 24,030 in 2011-12 to 14,400 in 2015-16. In sharp contrast, the number of Indian students in the US rose 25% to almost 1.7 lakh in 2015-16, the third year of rising numbers, following three years of decline. India is the second leading country of origin for students coming to the US, comprising 15.9% of the total number of international students in the country. And while the Open Doors report, 2016 paints an optimistic picture, Trump’s recent statements and actions have left Indians immigrating for employment or studies wary.
 
 Carnegie Mellon University’s College of Engineering distinguished fellow Vivek Wadhwa says the recent policy changes will hit Indians looking to immigrate to the US and UK. “Amongst H1B workers, there surely is panic and this is justified because of the anti-immigrant views of the new administration.
 
 Things will get much worse here for all immigrants before they get better. Foreign students are also worried that they may not even be able to join optional practical training programmes after they graduate. Again, they have reason to worry,’’ he says.
 
 Countries like Canada, Australia and New Zealand stand to benefit from these changes. Already the number of students going to Canada has soared 78% from 27,304 in 2011to 48,588 in 2015 while permanent migrants to the country have seen a 44% rise from 27,488 in 2011to 39,530 in 2015.
 
 
