HYDERABAD: Osmania University, which will celebrate its centenary on April 26 this year, was originally known as   of Hyderabad. Over the years Hyderabad was dropped from its nomenclature and the university came to be known simply as Osmania University.

 The royal decree (firman) issued by the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, in 1917 proclaiming the formation of Osmania University reads: “I am pleased to order the inauguration of a university to be called the Osmania University of Hyderabad in commemoration of my accession to the throne“. Incidentally, the Nizam took over the reins six years earlier in 1911, and it was the first major   opened by him.
 
 Two major educational institutions -Nizam College and the   -were started by Mir Osman Ali Khan's father and Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan. Incidentally, Hyderabad got its first regular educational institution in the form of Dar-ul-Uloom in 1854 during the regime of the Nizam V, Mir Tahniyath Ali Khan (Afzal-ud-Dowlah).
 
 Though the seeds of modern education were sown by the Nizam IV, Mir Farqunda Ali Khan (Nasir-udDowlah), who established the   (modern day Osmania medical college) in 1846, it was Mir Osman Ali Khan, who set the major milestones in the educational history of Hyderabad. While education was imparted through Persian, Urdu, or English as the medium of instructions during the regime of previous Nizams, Osman Ali Khan ensured that there is a blend of Urdu and English. And Osmania University was the educational institution that amalgamated a vernacular language with English. Telugu, Kannada and Marathi were also patronized.
 
 “The fundamental principles in the working of the university should be that Urdu should form the medium of higher education, but a knowledge of English as a language should, at the same time, be deemed compulsory for all students,“ the Nizam VII said in the royal decree.
 
 Though OU was formed in 1918,   established in 1887, continued to be affiliated with the   till a few months before India got Independence. It was only on February 19, 1947 that Nizam College was brought under the jurisdiction of Osmania University . The law college was set up in 1899.
 
