On April 9, 2016,   had written on his Twitter handle: “Would have been nice to be part of @IPL again. Was in fact looking forward to it. Favourite tournament. Hope #IPL9 is a blockbuster.”

 The post had set off a thousand stories and theories about his sudden exit from commentary box of Indian cricket. One year on, things seem to have changed. If he were to post a comment on   sometime in the next few weeks, it could well read like this: “Nice to be part of @IPL again. Looking forward to it. Favourite tournament. Hope #IPL10 is a blockbuster.” His broadcast exile is set to end during this year’s Indian Premier League (IPL).
 
 Things obviously have changed for the better for Harsha and unless there is an unforeseen turn of events in the next three weeks, the seasoned commentator will be back in the broadcast business – in the studio certainly if not on the ground exactly for live commentary.
 
 A lot of things have changed in Indian cricket in the last 12 months and one of the key changes was at the top of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) power equation. The office-bearer(s), who were opposed to him, are no longer in control.
 
 And those who are in control should have no problems if a television studio goes to him with an offer. The other factor that is helping Harsha’s return is the sudden shortage of quality ‘experts’ in the studio.
 
 With Ramiz Raja, Waqar Younis and Shoaib Akhtar not available for this year’s IPL, because of the strained relations between India and Pakistan, there is an acute shortage of people with the gift of the gab and an eye for analysis. With all his experience, it is believed that Harsha can make up for a lot of that shortage, even if he were to be confined only to the studio.
 
 Broadcasters   and Harsha have chosen not to comment on the expected development but this paper has information that talks have been going on between them for quite some time. The pen has obviously not been put on the paper over points of the contracts to be signed but it is understood that it would be more of a formality than serious negotiations.
 
 One of the reasons why the concerned parties, that includes the BCCI also, are tight-lipped about it is that they don’t want any influential person coming into the picture and derailing the whole thing.
 
 After all, Harsha’s sudden exit from the commentary scene is well documented. A tweet from Amitabh Bachchan, a retweet from MS Dhoni and a complaint from senior Indian players are believed to have gone against him last year.
 
 It is learnt that Harsha wants to commentate than just do the chatting in the studio but with the BCCI producing the tournament (actually IMG does the production for the BCCI), the chances of him being taken for the commentary duties are remote for the time being. The BCCI, though, is unlikely to object if Sony offers him a studio contract. That said, he can still do commentary – that is in Hindi which is done from the studios.
 
 For the record, Sunil Gavaskar, Ravi Shastri, L Sivaramakrishnan and Sanjay Manjrekar are among those who have been offered the commentary contract for this IPL. Barring the Pakistanis, the other usual suspects of the   will be there. Where exactly will Harsha come in is something that will be decided in the next few days.
 
 
