MUMBAI: Medicines that treat the Hepatitis C (sofosbuvir) and diabetes (teneligliptin) emerged as the highest-selling drugs in 2016 among the new launches in the domestic retail market, a grim reminder of the alarming spread of lifestyle diseases in India.

 The medicines and combinations for Hepatitis C, a liver infection, had the highest sales among the top 10 brands launched over a two-year period, with Natco Pharma’s Hepcinat (sofosbuvir) netting sales of Rs 158 crore, followed closely by Sun Pharma’s  , a health supplement, with Rs 148 crore, data culled from market research firm   shows.
 
 Overall, the market, which is valued at Rs 1.07 lakh crore, showed a robust growth of over 10% for the year, buoyed by strong sales of anti-diabetic and cardiac therapies. Diabetes therapy Mixtard from   has become the first brand to cross Rs 500 crore in sales, while  , Abbott and   retained their slots as top companies in the domestic retail market for 12-month period ended December 2016. 
 
 Doctors say the rise in the incidence of lifestyle diseases could have been arrested. 
 
 Dr  , chairman, Fortis Centre of Excellence for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology, said: “There were ominous signs in the 1990s of rise of lifestyle diseases including Hepatitis C and HIV, and that was when appropriate strategies should have been in place to stop these in track. It is unfortunate that diabetes and Hep C-related liver diseases continue to rise unabated, requiring increased dependence on medications, ultimately draining the health, economy and productivity of the country.” 
 
 Mirroring the rise of these diseases, nearly 10 sofosbuvir brands have been launched, while teneligliptin medicines are dominating the anti-diabetic space. 
 
 Overall, anti-infectives, cardiac and gastro-intestinal medicines make up nearly 40% of the market, with sales of anti-diabetics adding the largest incremental value, Rs 1,427 crore, during the 12-month period ended December 2016. Sales in December stood at Rs 9,132 crore; however, owing to demonetisation, growth dipped to a single-digit figure, 7.2%, over the previous year. 
 
 “During the month, the anti-diabetic market registered a robust growth of 16.2%, while the cardiac market grew at 10.1%. Without these two therapies, the growth in the market would have been just over 5%,” AIOCD Awacs associate director, Hari Natarajan told TOI. 
 
 The market added around Rs 616 crore in December 2016 over the previous year, whereas, in 2015, the incremental growth was Rs 986 crore. The organised pharma retail market is hugely fragmented, with over 800 companies, and nearly one lakh stock-keeping units. 
 
 Around 100 companies have been launched over the last 36 months,the data said.
 
