HYDERABAD: Kerala chief minister  , who met chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan and held a public meeting at Saroornagar on Sunday, went out hammer and tongs against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Sangh Parivar. He also made a few critical remarks against  , who hosted him for lunch earlier in the day.

 “The growth of right wing fringe groups and self-styled organisations in the name of protecting our culture is posing a threat to the freedom of commoners in the country. Minorities, Dalits and BCs are becoming the victims of Sangh Pariwar. Time has come for us to forge larger alliances with students, minorities, Dalits and other sections of people to counter the neo-liberal and communal forces,” said Vijayan, who is also   politburo member.
 
 He termed the BJP’s decision to make firebrand Hindutva leader Yogi Adityanth as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh as a clear indication that   and Sangh Pariwar would continue to use communal hatred to rise to power.
 
 Vijayan also lashed out at the   at the ‘Samajika Telangana’ public meeting, which was held to mark the culmination of CPM state secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram’s five-month long Maha Padayatra through 1,500 villages in the state. “Congress dug its own grave by compromising on secular issues. It’s a clear example of those who adopted a soft approach towards communal forces buckling down under the same forces,” he said to a huge crowd of supporters.
 
 Vijayan’s visit to the state was not without protests. Over 100   activists were taken into custody after they burned Vijayan’s effigy and tried to barge into the RTC Kalyana Mandapam, where he was addressing a gathering of Malayalis. ABVP state leader L Ayyappa, who led the protests, said many ABVP and RSS activists had been killed in Kerala and Vijayan should not have been allowed to come to the state. “We are demanding President’s rule in Kerala,” he said.
 
 BJP MLA T Raja Singh told TOI that it was unfortunate that KCR had honoured the Kerala CM. “While I was successful in ensuring that CPM did not get permission for a public meeting at   grounds, which falls under my assembly segment, I could not stop him from coming to the city. Vijayan is involved in killing hundreds of RSS and ABVP activists. How can KCR host lunch for such a person?” he said. 
 
