Cooler temperatures, ice and snow will be involved in this winter season for a few people. Even though scooping snow might not cause any health issues for the majority, it is vital to understand however atmospheric condition affects your heart particularly if you have  . Few people who are outside in chilly atmosphere ought to stay away from sudden strenuous effort, such as lifting an overwhelming scoop of snow. 

 
 
 Many individuals are not physically adapted to the strenuous activities and are ignorant about the consequences involved of being outside in chilly climate. Winter sports devotees who don't play it safe can endure incidental hypothermia if the body temperature falls underneath 35 degrees Celsius which can often be fatal. Signs of hypothermia include in-coordination, mental perplexity, hindered responses, shuddering and drowsiness.
 
 Kids and the elderly are at higher risk. Moreover, elderly have low subcutaneous fat and hence can endure hypothermia without any hint. Coronary heart disease patients frequently endure angina in cold weathers. 
 
 Other than icy temperatures, high winds, snow and rain additionally can take body warm. Wind expels the layer of warmed air from around your body. Even at 30 degrees Fahrenheit, a 30mile/hour wind has the cooling impact of 15 degrees Fahrenheit. Likewise, humidity causes the body to lose warm quicker than it would at a similar temperature in drier conditions. 
 
 Understanding the influence of chilly climate is essential for implementing effective health measures. Take rest breaks between shovelling so you don't over exhaust your heart. Learn the heart attack warning signs and even if it not the case still have it looked at. If necessary consult a specialist. Stay away from alcoholic refreshments before or subsequent to scooping as warmth generated by liquor can mislead one to underestimate the additional strain. Also learn CPR in case any emergency arises. To avoid hypothermia, dress in layers of warm apparel, which traps air between layers framing a defensive protection. Warmth can be lost through your head so wear a cap or head scarf as this will also protect the ears which are vulnerable to frostbite. Keep your hands and feet warm, as well, as they have a tendency to lose heat quickly.
 
 
 
 Dr. Sunil Jain, MD, DM (Cardio), MRCP (UK), Intervention Cardiologist & Assistant Professor, RUHS College of Medical Sciences, SMS & Jaipuria Hospital, Jaipur
 E-mail: trisunh@yahoo.co.in
 
 
 : The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
 
 
