RANCHI: Jharkhand chief minister   termed the Union Budget a "good one in the face of challenges" and thanked Prime Minister   and Union finance minister Arun Jaitley. 

 In a written statement, Das thanked the Centre for its decision to announce a regional centre of the   (AIIMS) and said that the hospital has "come as a gift for the state".
 
 "The AIIMS has come as a gift for Jharkhand," a release by the chief minister's office shortly after the budhget read. 
 
 State health minister Ramchandra Chandravanshi also thanked Jaitley, Modi and Union health minister JP Nadda for the move. 
 
 The Union government had given an in principle agreement for setting up a AIIMS in Jharkhand last year. Following that finance ministry sent a fact-finding team to Deoghar where the Das government has identified 287 acres land in Devipur block. 
 
 Das hailed the budget as transparent and said it was aimed at "improving social security and income of the poor". 
 
 Calling the budget pro-farmer and pro-poor, the state chief hailed the Centre for putting emphasis on agriculture, women empowerment. "I congratulate Jaitley for the budget. The budget takes care of the poor, farmers and the women. The move to construct one crore rural houses for poor, providing electricity to every household and allotment of Rs 10 lakh crore for farmers is commendable," Das said. 
 
 The state's opposition parties, however, termed the Union Budget as a "damp squib". General secretary of   (JVM-P), Pradeep Yadav, said that the budget did not promise anything to end the problems being faced by the people post demonetisation.
 
  "The budget does not have anything to be encouraged about, be it in the railways or in general," Yadav said. Congress state president Sukhdeo Bhagat echoed JVM-P's lines and termed it as a "election manifesto" for the impending assembly election in five states. 
 
 The economists, however, termed the budget as balanced. Ramesh Sharan, head of the economic department of Ranchi University, raised objections to the budget having nothing to address the protection of environment. 
 
 "At a time when the Center is talking about Make in India, installation of heavy industries in states like Jharkhand will have a direct bearing on the environment. The government should have taken that into account," Sharan said, proposing that the budget should have outlined subsidies for anti-pollution measures and impose taxes on thermal power plants. 
 
 Sharan stated that the budget lacked measures such as subsidies and incentives to industries for setting up units in backward areas, which in turn would have been beneficial for improving the industrialisation in far-flung areas of Jharkhand. "The decision to construct rural housings will generate employment while increased allocations in agriculture will help farmers of the state," Sharan said.
 
 The federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) called the budget balanced. Vinay Kumar Agarwal, FJCCI president, that the budget has taken care of the concerns of industries by not proposing any new taxes and brought relief to the common taxpayers by slashing income tax cuts.
 
 On the other hand,   called that the budget was a failure in terms of addressing the problems following the demonetisation.
 
  (With Inputs from Rajesh Pandey in Dumka) 
 
