DIBRUGARH: Sunday's brazen attack on   Rifles jawans by suspected Ulfa(I) and NSCN(K) militants in the Jagun area of Tinsukia district has once again raised questions about security agencies' preparedness in dealing with such threats. 

 The incident, which comes just ahead of Republic Day when the state's security machinery is on alert, points at the failure of intelligence gathering in the area. 
 
 In fact, security agencies had anticipated such an attack in Tinsukia district, an   stronghold, in the run up to Republic Day. On January 19, DGP Mukesh Sahay, while chairing a high-level security meeting at the 2nd APBN at Makum, had warned of possible strikes by NE militant groups ahead of Republic Day.
 
 Among those present at the meeting were Special DGP (Border) RM Singh, IGP (Special Branch) RP Meena, Tinsukia SP Mugdhajyoti Mahanta, Sadiya SP Prasanta Sagar Changmai, Charaideo SP Jitmol Doley, DIG (Eastern range, Arunachal Pradesh) Apur Betin, Namsai SP CK Mein, Longding SP Rohit Meena, GOC of Dinjan-based 2nd Mountain Division, Commander of 181 Mountain Brigade, Laipuli and the commander of Lekhapani-based 25 Sector Assam Rifles. The DGP had called for greater coordination among security agencies and sustained operations against militant outfits. 
 
 According to reports, a 10-member armed group of Ulfa(I) led by Rupom Asom had recently entered the district from Myanmar via Arunachal Pradesh. Based on inputs, security forces had been carrying out intensive search operations in areas along the Assam-Arunachal border since January 15. It is suspected that Sunday's attack was carried out by the same group with the active support of NSCN(K) ultras.
 
 Since most roads in the border areas are flanked by dense forests from both sides, soldiers who are not familiar with the terrain often become sitting ducks for militants. On November 19, 2016, three   jawans of the 15 Kumaon   were killed in an ambush when their convoy were passing through the Pengeri-Digboi road. The location is 55 km away from Sunday's ambush site in which 2 soldiers were killed and five others injured.
 
 Sunday's ambush, which took place at Jagun 12 Mile Warabasti area on NH-153, is seen as a ploy to draw maximum attention and display the firepower of Ulfa (I) whose strength is believed to be on the wane. 
 
 
