NEW DELHI: After a frustrating three decades of monitoring government efforts to clean the Ganga, the Supreme Court decided on Tuesday to entrust the task to   (NGT) even as petitioner and Magsaysay award winner M C   contested the  's “tall claims“ on making the river pollution free.The SC had earlier asked the NGT to monitor efforts to reduce pollution in the river caused by discharge of untreated industrial effluents. On Tuesday , it said the NGT would also monitor discharge of untreated sewage into the river. A bench headed by Chief Justice J S Khehar asked the NGT to furnish a report in six months to the SC on progress of work on both fronts-controlling flow of untreated industrial effluents and municipal sewage into the river.

 The Centre, through solicitor general Ranjit Kumar, presented an update to the court on the work initiated by the government through the integrated `Namami Gange' project with an outlay of Rs 20,000 crore, which was approved by the   in January 2016.
 
 On municipal sewage management front, the Centre said it had entrusted pre-feasibility studies and condition assessment in 118 identified towns to five central public sector undertakings. It claimed to have received reports on 84 towns.“Development of 82 million litres per day (MLD) sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Haridwar and 50 MLD in Varanasi on hybrid annuity-based PPP mode have been taken up on priority basis and bids were invited on December 31 last year,“ the Centre said.
 
 In October 2014, the SG had told the SC that to stop industrial effluents, responsible for 30% of pollution in Ganga, the NDA government was committed to achieve zero liquid discharge (ZLD) from industries by March 31, 2015 by putting identified industries to strict notice.
 
 More than two years later, the Union government said, “Diagnostic and feasibility studies have been carried out by National Mission for Clean Ganga and it suggests ZLD based Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) as a reliable and environmentally sound option for effluent management for small scale industries in Ganga basin.“
 
 Of the 456 tanneries identified to be polluting Ganga in its flow through UP , only 1]t4 have been dismantled. Among the 442 functional tanneries, 437 units divided in three clusters --Kanpur (400), Banther (23) and Unnao (14) --are connected to CETPs but all three CETPs are non-compliant of Central Pollution Control Board norms, the Centre said.
 
 It said ZLD was achieved in 17 of the 27 distillery units and closure orders were passed for nine but only one was closed. Mehta took the opportunity to inform the court that tall claims of the Centre to clean the river of pollutants remained mostly on paper and the water quality had not improved.
 
 The Centre said the ministry of drinking water and sanitation had provided Rs 578 crore to undertake rural sanitation activities in 1651gram panchayats. In October 2014, the SC had given vent to its frustration in making governments work according to their promise to clean the Ganga. It had found that though Rs 4,000 crore was spent during Ganga Action Plans I & II, there was no improvement in water quality . Mehta had complained of rising arsenic and mercury levels in Ganga posing grave threat to lives.
 
 
 
