COIMBATORE: In an effort to trace the two absconding suspects in   spokesperson C   murder case, the crime branch-CID (special investigation division) police,  , have printed   in Tamil, English and   with photographs of the suspects and request to the public to provide information on the duo. 

 The pamphlets are being distributed in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka to trace the two suspects who are absconding since September 23, 2016.
 
 Sasikumar, 36, was hacked to death by a four-member gang at   near Thudiyalur on the outskirts of the city on September 22. The Coimbatore rural police registered an FIR in connection with the   case and could not fix the accused. Meanwhile, the state government transferred the murder case to the crime branch –CID (special investigation division), Coimbatore and the officials had grilled more than 500 people in connection with the case. But they did not get any breakthrough in the case.
 
 Police released the photographs of the two suspects and requested the public to furnish information but in vain. Meanwhile, the CB-CID (SID) police also issued lookout notice to all the airports in the country to detain the two suspects Saddam Hussain, 25, son of Barkathullah from Karunanidhi Nagar at Saibaba Colony and Mubaraq, 37, son of Abdul Rasaq from Angannan Street at Saibaba Colony. 
 
 “We have printed thousands of pamphlets in Tamil, Malayalam and English and our policemen started to distribute them in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to find the whereabouts of the two suspects. We are focusing mainly Malappuram and Kannur districts and our policemen have been distributing the pamphlets to the Muslim community who are coming for prayer at mosques,” said a senior officer from the CB-CID (SID).
 
 He added that the police would keep the identity of the informant’s secret and informants will be rewarded suitably.
 
 Police also requested the public to contact S Anantha Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, CB-CID (SID), Coimbatore through mobile phone (94981 – 04409), Anand Arockiyaraj, inspector of police (94981-74230), Special Investigation Division, Coimbatore (0422 – 2241752) and CB-CID control room, Chennai (044- 28512510).
 
