JAIPUR: At the launch of Mukhya Mantri Jal Swavalamban Scheme (MJSS) in October last year, chief minister   said, “Conservation of water is not the sole responsibility of villages. In urban areas, it is the need of hour to preserve rainwater and avoid wastage. In cities, including Jaipur, rainwater harvesting structures using latest technology should be constructed in residential colonies and facility areas.”

 The first monsoon after the MJSS’s launch is here. Jaipur’s civic bodies and the residents, however, failed to shed their causal approach in implementing the scheme or making a contribution towards rainwater conservation.
 
 A senior town planner at the   (JDA) said, as per rules, it is mandatory to construct rainwater harvesting facilities in houses built on plot sizes of 300-sq m or above. Majority of the residents have, however, still not constructed   structures at homes and the rainwater is going down the drains without recharging the city’s groundwater. The   was authorized to penalize house owners who fail to comply with the rules but the officials did nothing.
 
 In past six years not a single inspection was carried out or notices were issued to the defaulters. The JDA enforcement wing announced to impose a penalty of Rs 25,000. There was provision of seven days’ imprisonment also for the defaulters. The punitive provisions, however, have remained on paper. “This year no notice has been issued to house owners for not constructing water harvesting structures,” said a senior enforcement officer.
 
 The town planning department approves layout plans for plots 300-sq m or above in size to ensure that provisions for harvesting structures have been made. Sources said the JDA officials never visit construction sites to check if the structures have been built or not.
 
 The excess use of water in posh colonies, despite rules and regulations, and no serious measure taken to recharge the groundwater may pose a serious threat to the city in future. Areas such as Raja Park, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Adarsh Nagar and Janata Colony are already in the dark zone for overexploitation of groundwater.
 
 The city has lost out on recharging groundwater at a time when it has received the best monsoon in past 8 years, barring 2009-2010. “In 2011, the water extraction was 207.27% against the recharge, which increased to 229.7% in 2013,” said an official from the state groundwater department.
 
 The residents, on the other hand, reasoned that rainwater harvesting structures were not being built due to high cost of construction. Gajendra Singh, a resident of  , said, “Spending Rs 20000 on construction of such structures is a lot for the middle-income families. The government should give subsidiaries for these structures as is given for solar plants.”
 
