NAGPUR: The vice Chancellor of  , SP Kane on Saturday spoke on the importance of sports as recreation for human beings as it is one such thing that brings mental peace and the emotional balance in a person. 

 Kane was speaking on the sidelines of   organised by   and   of Vasantrao Naik   where he was a chief guest on Saturday. 
 
 Speaking further on the topic of conference, 'Application of Social Sciences in Sports', he said that there are innumerable types of sports nowadays to maintain the mental and health balance. 
 
 “Science is involved in everything and has great interference in sports also. We have developed our sports. We do not play the same kind of cricket as we have seen in the Lagaan movie,” he added.
 
 He said that Sports are closely connected to social science. When there is any sports activities going on, not only the two teams are playing but the whole society is enjoying with them. We get involved emotionally to that activity. Entire community develop an interest.
 
 “One most important thing is when we are in the field we follow each and every rules but why it is not the same outside? Once you are out of the field, you are not sportsmen because there you always break the rules. Sports taught me to become perfect human”, he said.
 
 While giving the key note address on the topic ‘Brain mapping and cognitive training for performance of Athlete’, main speaker Jayashree Acharya said that human body has several type of brain waves that includes alpha, beta, delta and Theta and are called deep relaxation and consciousness waves. Each waves are responsible for particular actions and we get to know about the ability of a person by the dominance of particular wave which comes up during the brain mapping test.
 
 ”Brain mapping is not only necessary for sportsmen but also for general person to get the idea on what there strength is and to get an idea about your ability.” She added.
 
 Dipak Sonttakke, Tapan Datta, SB Maharaj Patil, Madhavi Mardikar, Sunetra Maharaj Patil were present at the occasion and vote of thanks was given by DG Sonttakey.
 
