CHENNAI: Want to check the veracity of layouts outside the   before buying a  ? It will be just a click away soon! The   (DTCP) will make the approved layout drawings available online, wherein buyers can access the entire plan of a particular plot.   sanctions approvals for carving out layouts across the state, except for areas falling in Chennai and parts of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts situated in the fringes of the city.

 According to official sources, the process of uploading the layout plans are under way. “This will help buyers in a big away as they can view the layout plan on our portal without hassle. They can cross check plots on our official website before investing,” a DTCP official told TOI. The details will be available in the portal https://dtcponline.tn.gov.in/public/ in a few months. 
 
 Coming close on the heels of the Madras high court curtailing indiscriminate conversion of farmlands into housing plots, the move to throw open the approved layout plans in the cyber space will bring more transparency to the largely unregulated sector. The government recently launched a regularisation scheme for unapproved layouts, created without obtaining mandatory sanctions from planning authorities.
 
 As per town and country planning norms, 33% of total land proposed for carving layout should be earmarked for different purposes such as open space reserve ( ), roads and shops. At present, buyers need to rely on layout drawings produced by the promoters or visit DTCP offices in respective districts to get a hard copy of the sanctioned plan. “Under such circumstances, the layouts available online will come in handy for the buyers,” the official said. The move will ensure that people cannot be taken for a ride by land promoters with false claims, he added. Approximately 100 layouts are approved by the DTCP every month. As many as 30 of these are in Coimbatore district.
 
 Further, the directorate is contemplating to upload the layout drawings that were approved in the past few decades, as well. Noting that the blueprints of old layout have been digitally scanned, sources said, it would be available online soon. There is also a proposal to make the detailed development plan comprising the proposed area earmarked for road expansion, road network and OSR land in different districts across the state available online. This will be helpful for those planning to develop a particular locality to know the quantum of land that should be given away for public facilities.
 
