From almost doing one film a year,   has currently finished shooting for three films. Even as he is listening to scripts for his next, in a conversation with Chennai Times, the actor opens up on his new-found confidence as an actor, why he is not supporting any group in the Producers’ Council elections, his struggle with getting tax emption for his films, the health of his grandfather, Dr M Karunanidhi, and more…

 
 
 It was Gaurav’s film (yet to be titled) which I committed first. Meanwhile, Thalapthy Prabhu, the director of Podhuvaga En Manasu Thangam (PEMT), had narrated the script to producer Murali. And, in between, I had three months in hand because we had to shelve a film that I was making with Suseenthiran. We had shot for it for two days, but we were not satisfied with the second half. I’ve been wanting to work with Ezhil sir as his previous two films were hits. I liked one of his scripts, but wanted to know if he would complete the shoot 
 , and he did!
 
 
 
 I gained confidence even while I was acting in that film. After the release, many told me that this was a noteworthy film in my career after Oru Kal Oru Kannadi. I should thank director Ahmed and my co-stars, Radha Ravi sir, Prakash Raj sir and Hansika, for giving me the confidence. But I did not want to do the same kind of films after that, even though we are in talks to do Manithan 2, though it might not be a remake of Jolly LLB 2, as that film has elements like the Kashmir issue that are not very relevant to our milieu. We feel that the character of the hero is what is crucial in these films. 
 
 
 
 No, in fact, I like to act in off-beat films. The first three films happened by chance, and I accepted Gethu because I myself was bored doing films in the same genre. That is why I did Manithan. I did not want to do any pei padam, but Saravanan Irukka Bayamaen (SIB) is one, even though the focus is not on the ghost; it is a typical Ezhil film. PEMT is a pucca rural film. Gaurav’s film has three different storylines that meet at a point, and is more of a crime thriller.
 
 
 
 The main doubt that I had was whether the audience would get bored seeing us together in film after film in a span of a few months. But his characters are totally different in all these three films; in SIB, he is actually a comic villain. As for comparisons, the films that I did with Santhanam were all city-based while two of these — SIB and PEMT — are rural subjects. Right from the costumes and looks, they are very different; he even sports a beard in one of these films. So, the flavour will be different, and it will be hard to compare. But there were times when Soori got the characters in these films mixed up.
 
 
 
 Soori’s comedy is more of slapstick. He is still connected to his roots. When we were shooting in villages, he used to go to the houses of the people there and becomes a part of their family. Perhaps that is why he is able to stay up to date with what works in those regions. Santhanam’s style is dialogue-oriented comedy. 
 
 
 I don’t think I’m going to get any support from whichever team that wins because of political reasons. For all of my previous films, I have filed complaints with the council, and FICCI and even went to the courts. So, be it the council or the  , I’m not expecting anything from them. I’ll solve my problems on my own. But my personal opinion is that the new team formed by Vishal comprises producers who are currently very active as producers, so it would be better if they are elected this time. Again, even though Vishal is my close friend, I wouldn’t expect anything from him for my problems. Whichever team wins, I’m OK with that.
 
 
 
 SIB is a Tamil title, but let’s see what they say, because they refused to accept even Manidhan as a Tamil title. We are going to get the film censored this week, and I’m planning to release it by the first or second week of May, but I think they won’t give tax exemption. I expected they will come up with some reason or the other for Manidhan, too, and they did just that.
 
 
 
 I agree the DMK came up with this rule. At that time, there were so many Tamil films being titled in English, and as a way of encouraging filmmakers to promote Tamil, they brought this rule. And they did not want films with too much violence, so they added the U certificate clause. As far as I know, they did a fair job in granting exemption. But what is stopping this government from refining the rules? I think the censor’s certificate is enough to decide if a film is eligible for tax exemption. But people have started using the tax exemption board as a means to settle personal scores. There is a pool of 40 people from which 7-8 members watch a film. They have no qualification other than the fact that they were on friendly terms with the former CM. And these people have become a parallel censor body now, and have turned this into a business. Naturally, some good films get affected. If you take a film like Maanagaram, it’s a multiplex film. So, their loss will be felt more, because they lose 30% of their revenue. I hope the team winning the council elections requests the government and takes some step to correct this. Also, the benefit of tax exemption has to go to the audience, so currently, the producers are also doing something wrongful by claiming this exemption for themselves.
 
 
 
 I think we have to give good films so that the audience feel compelled to come to the theatres. More than ticket rates, it is the price of the popcorn and other eatables that are higher. And producers don’t benefit from those. Producers could sit with the government and come up with a decision to fix rates based on the budget of the films, and charge higher for big-budget films. That’s what is happening now anyway, as we saw with Kabali, for which tickets were sold for even `1,500. That revenue was something that should have gone to the government, but it went into the pockets of one particular group.
 Audience, too, should realise that the work of a lot of people goes into a film and resist watching pirated versions of films. But for the past six months, they have not been in the mindset to watch films because the news that’s constantly been breaking on TV has been more entertaining. Even ladies have taken a break from serials to watch the news. We can’t blame the audiences because ever since the demise of the former CM, the developments have been relentless. And theatres, too, should give importance to maintenance and provide a pleasant experience. The theatres that have been well-maintained have managed to see decent box office collections.
 
 
 
 I don’t think I have to be in films to make an entry in politics. In fact, I’m doing very little political work now compared to the days when I was not an actor. I have campaigned for both my dad and granddad in their constituencies and overseen political work for the party.
 
 
 
 He is getting better. I had met him recently 
  and he smiled at me. He is not able to talk because of the tracheostomy, but he is responding to everyone. He understands what we are saying. He also manages to communicate what he wants to say with gestures... Like when we said we were leaving, he gave a nod. Given his age and the amount of hard work that he has done for 80 years, we need to respect him and give him his privacy. Hopefully, he will get better.
 
