KOCHI: Amidst many-hued flowers at the venue of Cochin Flower Show, social work students of Bharat Mata College, Thrikkakara, breezed through the crowd asking questions on latent symptoms of depression and suicidal tendencies. “The positioning of   ­ an NGO working for suicide prevention in Kerala ­ at the   was a symbolic act to represent the need to bloom more flowers in the minds of people who are sinking in gloom,“ said C J John, psychiatrist and founder director of Maithri.

 The   distributed a questionnaire that probes hidden suicidal inclinations to over 600 people. It also had questions about their behaviour in social network and implications in their personal life.
 
 “Suicidal tendencies and depression can be found in the most unexpected of people, even in a seemingly happy crowd as this. This survey is an attempt to reach out to them,“ said a student volunteer.
 
 The foundation was formed in 1995 by John and a couple of his friends when the sui cide rates in the state was peaking at a rate of 32 people per a lakh.
 
 “The NGO works purely on voluntary basis and is founded on the basic power of listening to our fellow mates,“ John said.However, the number of volunteers are dipping, said Sunny Joseph, a volunteer with Maithri. “The helpline number works 10am to 7pm all year round, without a single break.Calls come from the city , outer states and even abroad from expatriates. We are looking for more volunteers to lend a helping hand for the same and the stall at the flower show is to spread the word,“ Sunny said.
 
 The volunteers are given a three-day training before they are assigned with shifts at the   at Kochi.
 
 “The calls are assessed and categorized into three risk groups. Risk 1 includes people with suicidal thoughts while Risk 2 is for those with suicidal thoughts and plans. Risk 3 group is for people in the final stage in which the seeker is at the cusp of committing suicide and is making the final call. We do not ask them to not kill themselves, but persuade them to postpone the decision so that they can be talked out of it,“ Sunny said.
 
 
