  : A teacher from the coastal district has been imparting knowledge on the original script of Tulu language in Bengaluru. She has plans to make the script popular in Mumbai too. 

  Tulu, which is one of the five major Dravidian languages spoken by the people of coastal Karnataka and Kasaragod district of Kerala, is mostly written in Kannada script, though the ancient language has its own script.   and several other organisations in coastal districts have been promoting the original script of Tulu. 
 
 Vidyashri S Ullal, a resident of Ullal in Mangaluru, has been making significant contributions to make   popular by conducting classes.
 
 Vidyashri, who has already taught Tulu script to over 500 Tuluvas in   and Kasaragod districts, has been conducting classes in Malleswaram, Chamrajpet and Jayanagar for Tuluvas settled in Bengaluru in association with organisations including Namma Tulunadu Trust. She has already taught nearly 150 people in Bengaluru to write Tulu in its original script. 
 
 Vidyashri told TOI that the main objective is to make Tulu script popular by teaching it to Tulu speaking community. "I teach Tulu script based on the 'Tulu Akshara Maale' of GVS Ullal and Tulu numerals by using Kalakonde calendar. I teach Tulu script in three levels - introduction of letters and writing, old Tulu script in 'Taale Gari' (palm leaf manuscript) and translation of palm leaf manuscript. Recently, three batches of 20-30 participants cleared the first level at Malleswaram, Chamrajpet and Jayanagar. They will be taught the remaining two levels soon. Classes are conducted on weekends from 9am to 5pm based on the convenience of the participants," Vidyashri said adding that WhatsApp group helps in connecting participants and to hold discussions. 
 
  She has taught Tulu script in Canara College, Ramakrishna College, Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy Chavadi and several other institutions in Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts. She has also got an invitation to conduct classes in Mumbai.
 
