

 There are a few days left for the Board   (Std 10
  and 12
 ) and students seem clearly unhappy with the prolonged exam schedule which will last for almost two months this year. With city helplines claiming that they receive at least 10 calls daily from desperate students on how to deal with stress, it is time to wake up to the issue of exam pressure and realise the need for support groups and counselors. Indore Times talks to counsellors, psychologists, students and parents.
 
 Prishita Gupta, a Std 12 Commerce student says, “Since our exams will continue till the last week of April, we will not get much time to prepare for the series of competitive exams that are scheduled for May. We need to work on time management since there is a gap of 10 days between subjects.” While students are figuring out ways to manage their time, there are some parents who are supportive of their kids. Maneesh Dube, father of a Std 10
 student says, “We want our child to score well and better than what he has been scoring in the previous exam. We are supporting him and will help him if he needs our assistance. We also called off our vacation plans, since my son has to enroll for a coaching class to prepare for his competitive exams once his boards are done.”
 
 
 
 
 Counsellors feel that most students cannot handle pressure when they feel that their parents’ expectations are unrealistic. Maya Bohra, counsellor and facilitator of the   Spandan-Life Moves On shares, “We receive 8-10 calls on our helpline every day. While counselling the students, they confess that their mobile phones have been taken away and they are not being allowed to watch television.” She stresses the importance of creating a balance between studies and recreation. “Students should not study more than 45 minutes at a stretch. Any kind of recreational activity is a must after each session of studying for 45 minutes,” she emphasises.
 
 Jaydep Kar, CBSE Helpline counsellor of MP who is based out of Indore says that exam phobia is human psychology. “Anxiety leads to poor performance. Students should take stress as a eustress. Eustress is a positive stress but distress is a negative stress. Every child can convert distress to eustress by practicing meditation, motivating your own self and focusing on the present.”
 Kar explains that according to the CBSE guidelines, every school should have a counsellor. And in case there is no counsellor appointed by the school, the principal should take up the role of one.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Last week, Indore Police along with CitizenCOP Foundation initiated a campaign to ease exam pressure. The campaign – Dar Kar Nahi Dat Kar De Pariksha was launched to instill confidence among students. Rakesh Jain, the founder of the NGO says, “The campaign focussed on creating awareness among the students to deal with pressure and stress during exams. Around 150 trained volunteers visited over 500 schools in Indore district and interacted with 1,25,000 students. The volunteers took various sessions and taught students how to deal with examination pressure.”
 
 
 
 
 Dr Pawan Rathi, city based psychologist: “If a student is stressed, chances are that he may seclude himself and choose to remain aloof. He will not eat well and have panic attacks, breathing problems. Parents should be alert and identify the signs. In case, a person is undergoing stress, the parents should talk to them and take him to a counselor for help.”
 
 
 
 
 1. Plan well.
 2. Prepare notes for revisions.
 3. Take regular breaks while studying.
 
 4. Eat well. Avoid junk food, high calorie meals.
 5. Hydrate yourself with plenty of fluids.
 6. Avoid too much caffeine and other stimulants. But if you are already addicted to have 4-5 cups of coffee or tea before studying, don’t stop it completely. 
 7. Exercise regularly. 
 8. Don't compromise on sleep hours. 6 to 8 hour of sleep is must.
 9. Being little nervous is fine during exams; it helps us to pump adrenaline which helps and motivates us to prepare for exams.
 10. Keep talking and discussing with peers and parents. Talking can help us overcome anxiety.
 
 
 
 
 1. Be flexible, don't be too harsh for daily activities during exam times.
 2. They need your support. 
 3. Avoid criticism and comparison.
 4. Listen to them.
 5. Talk to them after every exam.
 6. Maintain positive and optimistic environment at home.
 7. Allow them to relax, play and enjoy in between studies.
 
 
 
 
 # Give me tips on how to study for long hours.
 
 # My parents have very high expectations, how do I match up to it?
 
 # I am unable to concentrate.
 
 # I can’t handle the pressure.
 
 
