AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has lamented that the police and administration “are always genuflecting before people in power”. The HC also said that the poison of crime and corruption has permeated through every walk of life in India. “The clouds of danger hovering over the social, economic and political scenario of India cannot be blown away so long as corruption, criminalization of politics, politicization of crime and corruption and politicization of bureaucracy occur,” the court observed.

 The HC made these remarks while issuing directions on a petition filed by a woman whose house in Kodinar was attacked by a mob led by the former   MP Dinu Bogha Solanki, whose name was missing from the FIR. After watching the videos of the rioting, Justice   wrote, “After watching the CD, I wondered for some time whether I was a judge in the state of Gujarat or in any other state. The video speaks for itself.”
 
 The judge castigated cops and the government for shielding Solanki: “The entire state machinery appears to be stacked in favour of Mr Solanki, probably, because he belongs to the ruling dispensation.” The court also pulled up cops for their manipulated investigation and for not investigating the case against Solanki and his men under the guise of misinterpretation of a court order, which had never stayed the probe. It also chided the investigator for registering a diluted FIR and said it was the duty of the state to register the FIR in as many words as the complainant has narrated the incident.
 
 After witnessing the Kodinar episode and the manipulations to protect the politician, who is the strongman of   district, the court expressed disappointment at the state of affairs in the country. The court observed, “Today the country we live in is a country beset by tensions, clashes, conflict, crime, corruption, fears and horrors. There exists an environment of helplessness and despondency. Crime and corruption have been with us from time immemorial. Crime and corruption have been presenting serious problems to the present governments and are a heavy burden upon society.”
 
 The court further said, “India will not enjoy rapid growth so long as problems of crime and corruption multiply. People in general have lost confidence in the police and administration who are always genuflecting before people in power.” Commenting that Solanki was still a free man, the HC said that if the state government was serious, it should approach the   to get his bail cancelled in connection with the muder of RTI activist Amit Jethava.
 
 
