BHAWANIPATNA: In spite of a bumper harvest of pineapple in Niyamgiri hill this year, the Dongria Kondhs are not upbeat in the absence of market linkage. Farmers (Dongria Kondhs) get the crumbs while traders and middlemen laugh all the way to the bank.

 The fruits are grown on 1,300 acres in the hilly terrain of Niyamgiri by more than 400 families residing in areas situated bordering Kalahandi and  , 80 km from here. 
 
 There are around 200 villages in the hilly area where pineapple is cultivated seasonally. In other seasons, different fruits are also grown up by them. 
 
 Mostly Dongria Kondhs cultivate pineapple. It is sold to traders as well as in the nearest market between June and August every year. 
 
 Climate is conducive for cultivation of pineapple in the hilly tracks of Kurli,  , Gadtali, Khajuri, Katraguma, Uparguma, Amduni, Garta, Kucheli, Hatesi, Mundbali, Dundijali, Ladang, Damanpanga, Tahli, Salpajula and Gailanka village. Farmers are forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices to wholesalers, who sell them at higher rates in the open market. 
 
 Dongrias trek 15 km from their homes after crossing many streams in the hilly terrain to sell their produce to the traders, but they never get the actual market price. 
 
 "We leave home early morning and come back in the evening after selling it at just Rs 10 a piece," said Pula Majhi, a Dongria Kondh woman. 
 
 "While traders purchase the pineapple at Rs 10 to Rs 15 a piece from us, they sell it at Rs 70 a piece in the Raipur market. There are no cold storage units here to store these fruits," said farmer   of Khambesi village in Rayagada district. He has cultivated pineapple on five acres this year.
 
 "Had there been a juice factory nearby, we could have sold the fruits and got the actual price," he said.
 
 Once a tree is grown up it starts producing fruits weighing between 700 gram to 1,300 gram and pesticides are not required to grow this fruit. But once the fruit is plucked it needs to be sold quickly otherwise it will become stale in a week, the farmer added. 
 
 Pineapples are loaded in trucks daily from a yard near Chatikana railway station and they are taken to Raipur of Chhattisgarh by the traders.
 
 Apart from that it is sold along the roads of Bisamcuttack, Muniguda and   in Rayagada district.
 
 Pineapple cultivation is promoted through   (DKDA), office of which is situated in Rayagada, and for one plant of pineapple 80 paise is charged from the Dongria Kondhs and a plant takes two years to grow.
 
 Field assistant officer of DKDA, Rayagada, Kastamal Karkaria said, "If a cold storage or a juice factory is established here, it would help improve the economy of Dongiria Kondhs."
 
