MADURAI: Known as cultural capital of Tamil Nadu, Madurai is also the hub for tourism. Every year, hundreds of pilgrims visit temple towns like Rameswaram and Kanniyakumari through Madurai. With improved domestic connectivity at Madurai airport, domestic tourism has also increased.

 Tapping into the rising footfalls, IndiGo had launched two services, Madurai - Chennai and Madurai - Chennai - Delhi, on Wednesday. From March 26, they will also service the Madurai - Hyderabad sector. Similarly,Jet Airways will be launching a direct flight from Madurai to Mumbai and Delhi from March 26th. 
 
 With growing competition in the domestic sector, it is likely that air fares may come down in the coming days. Interacting with the media on Wednesday, IndiGo’s director, corporate communications, Ajay S Jasra said that competition would bring down air fares. He also said they would be able to offer low prices because of cost advantage they have over other airlines.
 
 Director of Fortune Pandian Hotel, G Vasudevan said that more domestic flights will benefit all stakeholders in the long run. “More domestic flights will definitely help tourism in Madurai as better connectivity will bring in more people,” he said. 
 
 Confined to pilgrim centres and temples earlier, the domestic tourism sector in Madurai is growing towards other areas too like coastal tourism in Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin and Kanniyakumari and leisure tour avenues like Kodaikanal. Madurai is the closest airport for all these tourism centres and more domestic flights will be beneficial to tourists, according to local tourism promoters. 
 
 Fifteen year ago, when there were just three flights from Madurai, flying was confined to the rich. Most middle class people preferred trains and buses. But with the increasing number of flights and decreasing costs, more people are opting to fly. Today, the Madurai airport roughly handles 2200 domestic passengers daily.
 
 Former travel club chairman, B S G Mustafa from   said that the demand for domestic travel keeps increasing. The Madurai-Chennai flight ticket was priced at Rs 17000 on Thursday from its minimum price of Rs1900. “The occupancy is a decent 75 to 90 %,” he said. 
 
 Though Madurai is not known for any heavy industries, industrial activities, especially small scale units thrive in Madurai. Of late, there is a thrust in information technology sector. Several software companies like HCL are setting up their units in the city. With more options to choose from, businessmen will also benefit.
 
 Increased air connectivity, a boon for all 
 
 Fifteen years back, there were three flights from Madurai Airport towards Chennai and Mumbai
 
 At present there are 10 daily services between Madurai and Chennai (including 2 services each to Mumbai and Delhi touching down at Chennai), one daily service between Madurai and Bengaluru, 2 daily services between Madurai and Hyderabad
 
 Starting from March 26, there will be two more flights from Madurai to Hyderabad and Madurai – Mumbai – Delhi
 
 On an average Madurai Airport caters to 2200 domestic passengers per day and flight occupancy is between 75 to 90 % according to tour operators
 
 The price band between Madurai and Chennai ranges from Rs 1900 to 17000, Madurai to Bengaluru from Rs 2500 to 8900, Madurai to Hyderabad from Rs 2500 to 12000, Madurai to Mumbai/Delhi ranges from Rs 3500 to 15,000
 
