MUMBAI:   will no longer just be referred to as 'the only Indian to finish the   twice'. The 33-year-old has a new title to his name, and Sunday saw him cherishing every bit of it. Having temporarily swapped his bike for a 1650kg P1 Panther, a machine he hadn't stepped into before last November, Santosh could never have imagined his professional powerboat racing debut on Indian waters would result in him being crowned a world champion.

 In fact, shortly after his Baleno RS Booster Jets team had been crowned champions of the inaugural Nexa P1 Powerboat, Indian Grand Prix of the Seas, Santosh told TOI that his participation in the three-day event itself was in doubt three weeks ago due to a spine injury he sustained while competing in the Desert Storm rally in Rajasthan.
 
 “Not many know, but three weeks ago I had a big crash and had to undergo an operation on my spine,” said Santosh. “Three weeks ago, from the hospital bed, I didn't know if I was going to do this. So to sit here today with these guys is phenomenal. I'm obviously very happy.”
 
 Undoubtedly, Santosh, in the pilot's seat of boat 100 with navigator   besides him, largely had teammates Sam and   to thank for Baleno RS Booster Jets narrowly managing to edge Lloyd Dolphins to the title. The Welsh siblings did after all contribute the lion's share of the team's total tally of 89 points by virtue of winning all three races.
 
 And Santosh revealed he couldn't resist taking a dig at  , the other Indian pilot in the fray. “I told Gill, you cannot beat me with lady luck sitting on my shoulder. I am the luckiest man that I know.” Gill was left cursing his own fortune on Sunday as his boat encountered some mechanical issue that left him with little choice to play it safe and settle for a ninth place finish on Sunday.
 
 For Santosh, however, race three was as good as it got for him all weekend, despite him falling way behind the pack very early in the race. “The thing is two bad days and not good practice, you have really low confidence. When I went into the first corner, I didn't have confidence. As the laps started building, we started getting better and I started getting a better feel for the boat. So just to keep the boat level and not letting it chime was so rewarding for me,” he said.
 
