HYDERABAD: The  , the tribal population that lives in Telangana and other parts of India, has been cracked. This major tribal group, which lent its name to the ancient  , is not from south India, though the Gond people speak Dravidian languages.

 According to a study published in the latest issue of the  ,   are genetically closer to the Munda tribe of northeast India. They have less genetic affinity with local populations in Telangana and other states.
 
 Researchers from the city-based Centre for   (CCMB), Osmania University, along with several other institutions from around the world, studied in detail the genetic make-up of the Gond people, local populations and other tribal groups including the Munda. 
 
 The study gains significance as Gond people have been living in Indian sub-continent from time immemorial. The Gond tribals find their name mentioned in the Ramayana.
 
 “Gond groups shared extensive portions of their genomes within the group as well as with north and south Munda groups. The distinctive gene flow patterns observed suggest a different population history of the Gond groups than that of their neighbouring populations in Telangana and elsewhere,” said senior geneticist Dr K Thangaraj of the CCMB. Dr Thangaraj is one of the members of the research team.
 
 According to the researchers, within the overall South Asian landscape, the eastern central Indian region, with multiple language groups, is exceptional because geography is not the major determinant correlating with genetic variation. “Our wide-ranging investigation on the Gond and their neighbours living in central India has shown population interaction and gene flow between various language groups transgressing the linguistic barrier by linguistic assimilation of resident populations to small but technologically more developed inclusive groups,” the study said.
 
 The study said all the Gond groups share a common ancestry with a certain degree of isolation and differentiation. “Our allele frequency (gene frequency) and haplotype (haploid genotype)-based analyses reveal that the Gond share substantial genetic ancestry with the Indian Austroasiatic (Munda) groups, rather than with the other Dravidian groups to whom they are most closely related linguistically,” the study said.
 
 Though linguistically Gondi–Manda subgroup shares its most recent common ancestry with Telugu, genetically they are closer to the Munda tribes. As part of the research, as many as 18 genetic samples were analysed. “It is interesting to note that the Gond populations received significantly lower number of chunks from Dravidians than from the Munda groups. This conclusion holds even after comparing with the Telugu speakers who are closest to them linguistically,” the researchers said.
 
