Bhopal: For a city ranked the second cleanest in the country, nothing much seems to have changed on the ground. Grounds at many places in the city are covered with burnt effigies after Dussehra and leftovers in the wake of Swachh Bharat run. So is the case of banks of water bodies where Durga idols were immersed. Visit to any immersion site will turn out to be a bad experience. Bad odour from decaying material hits you and the overall view makes you want to run away from spots, which on other days offer a good visual treat.

 When Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) mayor Alok Sharma’s attention was drawn to it, he sounded helpless. “With just 6,000 employees, it is not possible to remove leftovers overnight in a city with a population of around 23 lakh,” he said. 
 
 “I doubt if we will be able to hold the second rank next time. The BMC should have started preparing earlier instead of crying over manpower shortage,” said Inder Verma, a city-based businessman. 
 
 Several events were organised to mark the Swachh Abhiyan, but it was just a formality. A rally was organised in BHEL township with an objective of spreading the message of clean environment. 
 
 “I am surprised. Instead of cleaning BHEL township, organisers went on conducting a rally. There is no use of such rallies, when so much of litter and leftovers are there on grounds,” Deepak Gupta, president, INTUC (Youth) said. “Such rallies are no more than a wastage of time.” 
 
 Gupta suggested that there is a need to make cleanliness drive a routine exercise. “Cleanliness is not one or two-day affair. It should be done regularly instead of coming out of home on a particular day. Such rallies are nothing, but a mockery,” said Gupta. All India BHEL Employees Union (AIBEU) and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BHEL) organised the 5 km long run. Organisers, however, felt it was a successful event with proper message. 
 
 Despite tall claims that immersion near water bodies won’t be allowed, thousands of idols of Durga found their way into the Bhopal’s Upper Lake and Lower Lake.
 
 Consequently, these water bodies are now littered with remnants of floating debris that once was part of the idols. Both biodegradable and non-biodegradable materials form a slushy mess with a lot of it sinking to the bottom. A foul smell is emanating from banks of water bodies because of decaying organic matter, especially floral offerings. Everyone passing through the area can see the filth left after the immersion. 
 
 Despite initiatives to reach out to people, including awareness workshops, advertisements, creating artificial ponds and plastic water tanks in parts of the city for idol immersion, rules were blatantly flouted. 
 
 “People came with huge tableaux and immersed in Lower Lake near Kamla Park. One can see leftovers. Nothing is done to remove leftovers even after a day of immersion. This is what the cleaning drive in India’s second cleanest city is all about,” said Atul Sharma, a local resident. 
 
 Area near the Lower Lake water sports centre also presents same scene. Heaps of decaying garbage rot on banks of the lake. “It is shameful. Government authorities have been claiming to grab the first rank in next Swachh survey. Poor removal of garbage will put us somewhere at the bottom in the ranking,” said Vivek Singh, another resident. 
 
 It was claimed venues where immersion was allowed would be cleaned immediately after the immersion. “One can visit the Upper Lake and see the leftover lying in the open. This is what preparations amount to. Instead of taking any time, authorities should have worked in cleaning areas of immersion immediately,” said a local resident. 
 
 The only man-made lake mentioned in list of Ramsar sites under the Ramsar Conversation on Wetland, Upper Lake, is also the only one on the list that doubles as a source of drinking water.
 
 Even places like MP Nagar are not free from ugly heaps of garbage. “I am not able to understand what stops the BMC from cleaning the area on a regular basis. They were supposed to at least ensure cleaning of areas like MP Nagar. If this is not done what to say about other places in the state capital,” said a local resident, Vibha Sinha.
 
 When contacted, Sharma admitted there are issues, which need to be addressed. “We have an acute manpower shortage. We will meet on Tuesday to make a plan to remove leftovers after festivals ended,” said Sharma. 
 
 Sharma claimed this year the number of tableaux was quite high. “I have never seen such high number of tableaux in past 25 years in Bhopal. Youths were enthusiastic this year, which is a good thing,” Sharma said. 
 
 He, however, maintained several works have been done to keep the city clean. “Compared to last year, the situation is better. There are things, which need to be addressed and I am hoping to achieve them in next couple of days,” said Sharma. 
 
 
