NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Like in the case of all other voters, the expectations from the government were writ large on their faces too. The first-time voters, thrilled to be part of the biggest democratic process, never betrayed their emotions on election day.

 Speaking to TOI after exercising their franchise, this cross-section of Gen-X said they had voted for a corruption-free government, good governance, employment opportunities and women’s safety. There were 20,218 first-time voters in Gautam Budh Nagar, while Ghaziabad had 25,605. The new voters were those who attained the age of 18 years on January 1 this year or those who were eligible for registration but were left out of the rolls so far.
 
 “I felt really good to vote for the first time. I hope the new government will be corruption-free and will provide job opportunities and work towards making Uttar Pradesh a pollution-free state,” said Mohit Kumar, an engineering student in Greater Noida. 
 
 For Amit Kumar, a student of software engineering, it’s all about development, better infrastructure, more schools and better governance. “I hope the government that comes to power will follow the promises they have made during their campaigns,” he said. 
 
 Youngsters, especially women, voted for better security given the increasing crime rate. “I have voted for the first time and I expect the new government will do everything to provide better security for women. I expect strict laws to be enforced to protect women,” said Ayesha Kaneez, an MBBS student.
 
 Another youngster, Iffat Khan, said: “I am excited, overwhelmed by voting for the first time. It is a great feeling to be treated like a mature citizen.” 
 
 Ria Ranjan, a Noida-based first-time voter, said she had opted to press NOTA on her first trip to the polling booth. “I opted for NOTA as I don't believe any of the candidates is good enough.” She said she had “no expectations from this election” as she believed “things will continue as they are or get worse”.
 
 “Development and employment are the twin issues on which we are voting. We need a transparent system where employment is provided on the basis of merit. In the present system, there is rampant corruption in providing government jobs,” said Amanpreet Kaur (19), a first-time voter in Kaushambi. 
 
 
