If changing careers from a cushy job in software to starting a business in the construction market wasn't a bold enough move, how about then putting your hard-earned money into a field as unpredictable as the film industry, where fortunes change every Friday? Well, that’s exactly what   has done, and convincingly so.

 Today, Pushkara is seen as the man behind films like  , Kirik Party and Jeerjimbe, which won the hearts of critics and audiences alike, in varying roles as producer, partner and co-producer.
 In his quest to support and promote Kannada cinema, Pushkara has also made notable associations, both on professional and personal levels, with people like actor   and director Hemanth M Rao, to name a few. Today, in his own capacity, as well as in association with them, he has at least seven other projects in the pipeline, which should keep him a busy man well into 2018.
 And, most recently, Pushkara expanded the horizon of his filmi journey, by venturing into a new territory. In collaboration with Rakshit Shetty, under the banners Paramvah Studios and Pushkar Films, he is looking at providing 
 just the right amount of muscle to promote deserving Kannada films on bigger platforms. “The first film that we will present through our banners is director Aravind Kaushik’s  . Rakshit has worked with Aravind earlier and saw the film, after which he suggested that I do so as well. I was blown away by the screenplay and its lead actor, Balu Nagendra. Left to their own devices, the team of this film would not have had the wherewithal to promote it and, eventually, bring it to a wide audience. That is when we decided to step in. Our work is cut out for us, as we will now lend our names and reach to publicize the film and even get it to theatres. In fact, we have even undertaken the distribution of the film in multiplexes across the state,” explains Pushkara.
 One noticeable fact about Pushkara’s film dealings is that he has been working with people known to him, directly or indirectly. Huliraya, for instance, caught their eye because of Rakshit’s association with Aravind. Will that equation change and the banner open doors to others too? “Most definitely and if I, as a member of the audience, am excited about a product, I will back it to the moon and back. For instance, we heard about Rama Rama Re only after it hit theatres and then went all out on social media to tell people to watch it. There was too little time for us to do much though. We don’t want something like that to happen again. Huliraya is the 
 first step in that direction and we hope to keep this going steadily,” he signs off
 
 
  
