PATNA: The work schedule of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ) scheme workers and the movement time of the state government buses have been rescheduled, as the heatwave conditions and the rising mercury have already started becoming more severe this year than what it had been last year, said Bihar state disaster management authority (BSDMA) vice-chairman Vyasji on Friday.

 As per CM Nitish Kumar’s directive, the MNREGA workers would not be put to work for four hours from 11.30am to 3.30pm. Similarly, there would be no plying of the government (public transport) buses during the same period. There are around 1.4 crore jobcard holders in the state who work on the MNREGA schemes by the departments concerned. 
 
 Vyasji also asked people to take their own preventive measures to protect even cattle property and also heed to the general alert and warnings issued by   and weather department, as the government alone would not be able to do much. Curiously, the weather department can only forecast general weather situation ranging over a week and not beyond it. 
 
 Instead, the MNREGA scheme workers could be put to work during the morning and the evening hours to adjust the time of work lost, Vyasji said, adding the movement time of government buses in the state could also be rescheduled to prevent people concerned from getting affected by the hot westerly wind and heatwave conditions, including sunstroke. The buses would be asked to carry water and ORS packets.
 
 Vyasji was speaking on the sidelines of the one-day consultation workshop held on the BSDMA draft ‘Heat Action Plan’ to seek suggestions from the participants. By tomorrow evening, the final draft would be sent to all the districts, which are also engaged in preparing their own general district disaster management action plans in tune with the specific local conditions, he added. 
 
 Vyasji said the   (IMD) had rated 2016 as the hottest year of the century. It has now forecast that heatwave conditions and rising temperature would be comparatively more severe this year, resulting in the state governments preparing their own action plan. 
 
 It is learnt that the BSDMA has already decided to set up its own 40 ‘piyaoo’, along with chana (gram) and gur (jaggery) at nodal points on Patna roads for travellers to ward off possible sunstroke. Besides, banners would also be displayed at the points concerned narrating the dos and don’ts to combat the hot wind and heatwave. 
 
 The district administrations would also be asked to open such points at their respective headquarters and other towns frequented by daily passengers.
 
