CHENNAI: Just before the start of the India-Australia series, when TOI had asked   about the `cheat' accusation levelled against the Aussies over the years, the legend had said: “I think there is no bigger insult than saying to an Australian that he is a bad loser or a cheat.“

 But the `C' word is back again with Australia skipper   deciding to look up to the dressing room for assistance on the lbw decision that was given against him. And   was not the only one angry about it, the BCCI itself had got into the ring with a tweet -“DRS ­ Dressing room review system?” Former Australian cricketers   and  , when contacted by TOI on Wednesday , mentioned that Smith “shouldn't have“ done what he did.
 
 But Gillespie added that it's time to move on. “The reality is that Smith has acknowledged that he shouldn't have done it. Peter Handscomb has come out in social media and said that he wasn't aware of the rules. I think we all know that you don't look up to the dressing room. That's a No-No. He has apologized and we should move on,” said Gillespie, who played major roles for the Australian teams that enthralled the Indian fans during the 2001 and 2004 series.
 
 Krejza, whose Aussie record of having the best figures in India was broken by Nathan Lyon in Bengaluru, felt it was a heat of the moment thing and an “error of judgement“ on Smith's part. “I don't think it was the correct thing to do, but it was all in the heat of the battle. He was prompted by Handscomb's look up signal. He looks up, without really thinking about what he was doing and after a few seconds particularly when the umpire walks up he realized that wasn't the right thing to do.
 
 “What he did was definitely not within the rules. But if he was trying to cheat, he would have been a bit more sneaky about it, don't you think? I think it was just an error of judgement in the heat of the battle which I'm sure he will regret now,” said the former Aussie off-spinner.
 
 Both Gillespie and Krejza stressed that Aussies “play hard and fair” but they are “no cheats”. “Australians have long been accused of these things. But I can assure you we Aussies play the game hard and fair...try and uphold that all the time. It's in our DNA. People can look at it negatively. Aussies show a lot of pride and passion at what they are doing it. We play the game to the best of our abilities, if another team beats us, we put our hands up say well done, shake hands and move on,” added Gillespie.
 
 
