BENGALURU: The sense of euphoria was unlikely to have subsided, but students and parents clearly wanted to waste little time in making preparations for the future. Following the declaration of the Second PUC and SSLC examination results respectively on Thursday and Friday , students could be seen making beelines in front of pre-university and degree colleges across the city.

 Eager to gain admission into some of the city's reputed institutions, students were seen waiting outside the gates as early as 6am. Students had queued up outside the gates of MES College of Arts, Science and Commerce before the gates of the college were even opened. “They have chosen to wait here from 6am. We did not impose this on students. Some have stayed here overnight, but we have been managing long queues,“ MES principal D Leelavati told TOI.
 
 Noorain Hyder was among those waiting outside MES to grab an application. “This is one of the best colleges for science,“ she said.
 
 The queues were no shorter at   PU College at Vasanthnagar. Although the application counters were scheduled to open only at 8am, parents and students started lining up outside the gates an hour before. Pointing to the increasing opportunities for commerce students, Manorama T, who was at Mount Carmel with her daughter Lakshmi, said, “Colleges are coming up with great combinations for commerce.“
 
 At Jyothi Nivas PU College at Koramangala too, applications for commerce courses seemed to be flying off the counter. The college offers an interesting mix of sociology and commerce in one combination. Similarly, BCom appeared to be one of the favourites among students seeking admission into Jyothi Nivas' degree college. `Everyone's chanting how commerce has become the most important domain now,“ said Charanya Ramesh, a student of the college.
 
 At Jain University , Jayanagar, the queue for applications showed no signs of shortening even by 10am, said Pramod Kashyap, one of the aspirants.“I studied science in pre-university since I wasn't sure what I wanted to do in the future.Now, I am keen on joining BCom,“ he said.
 
 However, there was no paucity of takers for science courses. Mubashir MK, who wants to pursue medicine, said he applied to St Jospeh's PU College on St Mark's Road.“This is the first college I've applied to, and I hope it's the last,“ he said.
 
 
 
 )
 
