When you think of a vacation, you might conjure up images of lazing by an infinity pool, driving around scenic mountains or just wearing your best   togs as you visit the world’s most sought-after architectural wonders. Put those thoughts away. The current flavour with   is to grab the   and put on some hiking boots and start walking. That’s right, holiday breaks that are dedicated just to walking are increasingly making for the grab with the millennial bunch. Here’s why...

 
 More health experts are advocating a walking-centred break. Mumbai-based general practitioner Dr Neelam Shroff, says, “I’d advise anyone to take up such a break. With jobs being sedentary today, people have lost touch with exercise. Lifestyle-related diseases such as cardiac illnesses,   and arthritis are on the rise due to this. So, an activity on a holiday will make a difference.” Adds Paresh Bhujain, rehabilitation exercise expert, “We just don’t walk enough. Today,   and depression are a huge cause of problems like joint stiffness. But making sure that walking is on the itinerary will compel folks to get out. And once they are used to it, the pattern can be carried on back home, as well.”
 
 
  
  
 The trend has elevated a holiday to a form of exercise. And there’s no limit to the places to reach via foot — beach, mountains, cities, anything can make it to the agenda. The choice of destinations too — such as Wadi Rum, the dramatic red-yellow mountainous landscape in Southern Jordan. For pristine beauty, Leh offers different  . At these little villages, the landscape moves from barren, brown to verdant green and it’s where your two feet will do a scenic stroll. It’s weather no bar either. In Iceland, you can walk to waterfalls or hike to a volcano site. More cities in the UK also offer complete ‘walking tours’ where you leave out the fancy car or boat rentals and just explore on foot. There is no better way to discover a place than by taking in the sights, sounds and smells like a pedestrian.
 
 
  
  
 There’s nothing like a brisk walk to brush off stress, shed the calories and keep the mind invigorated. And of all the different terrain that you set foot on, grass has been shown to have the best effect on improving one’s well-being. The next time you are on a holiday, kick off your shoes when you walk on it, as the soft grass stimulates nerves in the foot. Also called ‘earthing’, it rejuvenates the senses and calms the mind. Other health benefits include relieving muscle tension and stress. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 May is celebrated as National Walking month, abroad. 
 
 
 
