NAGPUR: Fresh from her sensational victory against   on way to a maiden   title at New Delhi on Sunday,   is looking to extend her dream run in the   which gets underway at Kuching, Sarawak, on Tuesday.

 Sixth seed Sindhu, who left for Malaysia within a couple of hours of achieving glory at the Siri Fort Complex on Sunday, will lock horns with Chen Yufei of China in the first round. Sindhu has a psychological advantage going into the match. The tall Hyderabadi had beaten Chen, world No. 13, in their only previous meeting at Macau Open in 2015.
 
 If Sindhu, the 2017   sportsperson of year winner, gets the better of Chinese, she will probably meet local girl Jin Wei Goh in the second round. The way Sindhu has been playing now, she should clear the first couple of rounds easily. The big test for Rio Olympics silver medallist will come in the quarterfinal where she is expected to run into top seed and world No. 1 Tai Tzu Ying of Chinese Taipei.
 
 Unlike India Open, Sindhu and Saina will not face each other as they are in different half of the draw. The bottom half looks stronger as it has second seed Carolina Marin, former world champion Ratchanok Intanon, Nozomi Okuhara and He Bingjiao.
 
 Saina will have to play at her best to come up trumps in the tough field. The London Olympics bronze medallist will start her campaign against fourth seed Akane Yamaguchi of Japan.
 
 World No. 8 Saina has a 1-0 head-to-head record against the Japanese, who has jumped to career-best ranking of world No. 2. It was in 2014 when Saina had got the better of Yamaguchi at China Open.
 
 Although Saina lost in the quarters against Sindhu last week, she put up a brave fight before going down.
 
 “I am happy to be moving well on the court after the surgery of my right knee in just third tournament. I fought well against Sindhu. Looking forward to play at Malaysia open,” said Saina after her match against Sindhu.
 
 Saina’s coach Vimal Kumar is also pleased with the way his ward played at the India Open and hoping for a better performance in Malaysia.
 
 He admitted that the draw is not easy for Saina. “The draw is good as well as tough. All she needs now is good hard matches and converting them to your advantage. It will give her the much-needed confidence,” said Vimal Kumar, who didn’t travel with Saina due to some personal work in Bangalore.
 
 Besides Saina and Sindhu, PC Thulasi is the only woman player in the fray but the former National champion will have to go through qualifying stage to enter the main draw.
 
 The Indian men’s singles field is depleted after the withdrawals of HS Prannoy and Kidambi Srikanth. Both have pulled out of the tournament at the last moment citing personal reasons.
 
 In their absence Ajay Jayaram and B Sai Praneeth will lead the Indian challenge. Ajay, who is world No. 19, will take on world No. 23 Qiao Bin of China in the first round. Sai Praneeth will lock horns with legendary Lin Dan in the opening round.
 
 In the men’s doubles, Manu Attri and B Sumeeth Reddy will meet qualifiers in the first round. Ashwini Ponnappa and Sikki Reddy will have a tough opener as they clash with top seeds Misaki Matsutomo and Ayaka Takashashi of Japan.
 
 
