JAISALMER: It seems there is finally good news for villagers residing in the   (DNP) area. After the news was published in the Times of India on June 27 about how hundreds of villagers in the DNP area are living in pathetic conditions, development works will soon being here as around 1,034 works have been sanctioned. According to the   guidelines, the management plan has been approved and population of DNP will get all the basic amenities. Due to strict rules of forest department, the villagers were not getting basic facilities. People were forced to live in appalling conditions with no proper roads, electricity or even potable water. There were no hospitals and Anganwadi centres.

 The Desert National Park covering an area of 3,162 sqkm was notified in 1980 to conserve the unique biological diversity of this desert ecosystem. It is the largest protected area of the state, spread over Jaisalmer and   districts. It is one of the most spectacular landscapes in the country and contrary to the popular notion that deserts are lifeless stretches of unending aridity; this unique area is host to a rich diversity of life.
 
 National Commission on Agriculture 1976 had laid down emphasis on creating a biosphere reserve in desert region. The idea was also to protect desert eco-system in its natural form for times to come.
 
 Shah Badar of Iraq along with trained falcons and other hunting equipment came to India for hunting in 1979. This action was widely opposed by local people because Shah Badar of Iraq had hunted Godavan and Tillor birds along with other wildlife.
 
 Finally, after many years of deliberations, a large area of about 3,162 sqkm in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts was selected to be developed and maintained as the desert wildlife sanctuary. It was notified in 1980.
 
 There are 93 villages located in the sanctuary area having a total population of more than 50,000. The cattle population of all these villages is approximately 4,00,000.
 
 In 1998 the rights of villagers living inside the notified sanctuary were settled and they were allowed to carry on with the agriculture and grazing as it had been practiced earlier. But the Wildlife Protection Act prohibited activities that are detrimental to the bigger goal of wildlife conservation. This included sale of the land and change in land use inside the sanctuary. As time went by the difficulty of the villagers inside the sanctuary to catch up with the main stream started to become evident.
 
 The procedure laid out by the legislation to take permission for development activities was lengthy and tiring. As a result, the facilities required for a decent living had not reached the villages inside DNP. The Supreme Court came up with relief for the villagers in allowing basic development activities to be taken up in the villages inside sanctuaries through a simpler process in 2015.
 
 Desert National Park deputy conservator, Anoop K R, said that regarding the issue the DNP administration collected information about facilities needed in the villages and prepared a comprehensive management plan of the sanctuary for the period 2017-27 that got the stamp of approval of the chief wildlife warden in the first week of September 2017.
 
 He added that a total of 1,034 small works for providing drinking water, electricity, schools and health facilities were approved in the management plan. The mitigation measures that are to be adhered with every work have been clearly mentioned in the plan so that it causes minimum damage to the environment of the sanctuary.
 
 Anoop K R said that DNP administration is hopeful of winning the confidence of the villagers for support in conservation activities after approval of the management plan. Around 277 works for providing drinking water to the sanctuaries, 110 electric lines, 49 works of laying telephone lines, 322 works for construction of water storage structures and 270 works for schools, health centres, Anganwadis and other small scale constructions that have no commercial value have been approved in the plan.
 
 
