Nashik: The   has launched a hunt for   who made little children hold snakes while he played tunes on his instrument allegedly under the influence of alcohol a few kilometres away from Malegaon recently.

 Acting on a tip-off, animal lovers reported the snake charmer to the local forest office. By the time officials reached the spot, the man had fled. The forest department rescued the snakes and is on the lookout for the snake charmer.
 
 On Thursday afternoon, villagers from Padalde noticed the snake charmer playing on his wind instrument, locally known as ‘pungi’ or ‘been’. The flute-like instrument is used to hypnotise the snakes. He also made children hold the snake in their hands so as to earn more from the onlookers.
 
 “Local people called our volunteer, Eknath Mandal, in Malegaon and told him about the incident. He also tipped us off and our volunteers from Nashik went to Malegaon. The villagers told us that the man was drunk and he had made the little children aged around 5-years-old hold the snake in their hands,” said Abhijeet Mahale, one of the volunteers of Eco Echo, an environmental NGO, said.
 
 He said that they immediately told the forest officials in Malegaon. By the time the forest guard and forester reached the spot, the drunk snake charmer had fled the spot.
 
 “There were two cobras and a rat snake which he had used, but the basket had some more snakes. The forest department wanted to release the snakes to their natural habitats. We insisted that they get the snakes checked by the veterinarian first,” Abhijeet said.
 
 Range forest officer (RFO) Malegaon, Vilas Kamble said that by the time the forest officials reached the spot, the snake charmer had escaped.
 
 “There were some women and children at the spot whom we quizzed. Our team is still searching for the snake charmer. Once we find him we will take action as per forest rules,” Kamble said.
 
 Kamble said that the snakes are currently in the forest officer’s possession. “Our forester has taken the snakes to the vet and we will release the snakes only after the vet says so. At present, they are under observation as they have been with the snake charmer until now. So far, no injury or illness has been noted by the veterinarian,” Kamble said.
 
 Although banned by the Indian Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, the practice of snake charming is still being carried out in many rural areas. Activists have said that tribal people capture these snakes from jungles. 
 
 Snake charming is the practice of pretending to hypnotise a snake by playing an instrument called pungi or bansuri. A typical performance may also include handling the snakes or performing other seemingly dangerous acts, as well as other street performance staples, like juggling and sleight of hand. 
 
 Ancient Egypt was home to one form of snake charming. It eventually spread throughout Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa. Despite a sort of golden age in the 20th century, snake charming is today in danger of dying out. This is due to a variety of factors, chief among them the recent enforcement of a 1972 law in India banning ownership of snakes. 
 
 
