Access to all seems to be the theme for healthcare in the 2017-18 budget with the overall allocation going up by Rs 109 crore. Superspecialty hospitals have been proposed at the taluk level, and the thrust seems to be on treating life-threatening and lifestyle disorders in the district headquarters. The proposal to have ICUs and dialysis centres in all taluks could save lives as people will no longer have to travel to cities for treatment. 

  The budget has allocated Rs 25 crore to set up five superspecialty hospitals in Davangere, Ramanagara, Tumkuru, Vijayapura and Kolar to treat cancer, heart diseases and lifestyle diseases. In order to fulfil the increasing need for kidney care across the state, the government has announced establishment of nephro-urology units in Kalaburagi and Mysuru at a cost of Rs 10 crore each. 
 
 Apart from a plan to set up a vision group for health, the budget has proposed to set up industries for stem cell research, bespoke DNA medicine, and universal health scheme for all.
 
 To increase ambulance access for citizens, one ambulance service will be provided for every 35,000 people in a radious of 10-15km. As many 1,538 ambulances of the government and GVK-EMRI will be integrated. Besides, there is a plan to cover 1,200-1,300 villages across the state with 64 mobile health units in next two years.
 
 To tackle the increase in vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria where platelet transfusion is suggested for patients, the government has proposed to set up blood transfusion units in 10 districts at a cost of Rs 6 crore.
 
 The budget has recognized the need for mortuaries in the state and proposed to set up 150 mortuaries in community health centres at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore.
 
 Under the Jana Aushadi generic medical stores scheme, 200 pharmacies will be commenced to provide quality generic medicine to people at lower prices.
 
 There is also a proposal to upgrade the Sanjay Gandhi Accident, Trauma and Rehabilitation Centre at a cost of Rs 14.32 crore by providing a 10-bedd ICU, and 20-bed poly-trauma centre.
 
