AHMEDABAD: The   (ED) late on Thursday evening arrested Jignesh Bhajiawala, the son of  , on   charges and produced him before a special court on Friday evening. 

 Jignesh, his father and brother Vilas were earlier booked by the CBI for allegedly using 1,000 fake IDs to illegally convert demonetized currency worth Rs 1 crore into new notes.
 
 “ED arrests Jignesh Kishorebhai Bhajiawala of Surat under PMLA for converting old currency to new illegally,” the director of ED announced on the agency’s official twitter handle.
 
 After bringing Bhajiawala from Surat to Ahmedabad, ED sought 10-day remand and the court shall hear the ED’s remand application on Saturday morning. ED’s counsel Sudhir Gupta said it wants to know more about the exchange of old notes worth Rs 8 lakh by furnishing IDs of other persons and forging signatures. Moreover, ED also wants to find out which other banks Bhajiawala made illegal transactions at, apart from the Surat People’s Cooperative Bank.
 
 During the brief court proceedings, Bhajiawala was in tears and even complained of ill health. He even vomited once during the hearing. He requested the court for medical treatment, and the court asked ED officials to ensure he is provided proper care. The court permitted his lawyer to meet him for half an hour. Later, he was sent to Sabarmati Central Jail.
 
 Sources in ED said Jignesh was involved in using fake IDs and ran benami bank accounts to convert demonetized currency into new notes. He was arrested by ED sleuths late on Thursday night from his house in Surat in a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case. 
 
 When reporters asked Jignesh about his arrest on Friday, he said, “I am in fear and I cannot face questions from the media as I am unwell.” He was seen shivering when the officials took him to the special PMLA court. 
 
 On December 28, ED registered a case of money laundering against Bhajiawala and his sons Jignesh and Vilas. This was after the CBI lodged an FIR against him for being found in possession of Rs 1.05 crore in new currency notes. The hoarding of new notes was discovered during searches by the income tax (I-T) department. The I-T dept last month seized unaccounted assets worth over Rs 10 crore from the Bhajiawala family in Surat.
 
