One fact about films that excites Sandalwood fans is fresh, new pairings on screen. This year, too, will have some new pairs that will entice fans to make a beeline for movie halls. Here's taking a look at some of these jodis who we think will be a treat to watch...

  and Srinidhi Shetty
 Prashant Neel's much-awaited period drama   will have Yash opposite Miss Supranational 2016 and Miss Asia-Oceania 2016 Srinidhi Shetty. It is indeed going to be a treat to see Sandalwood's hottest star pair up with an international pageant winner. 
 
 Puneeth Rajkumar and Priya Anand
 In the upcoming family drama Raajakumara, Sandalwood's Power Star will team up with multilingual actress Priya Anand for the first time. Given that both of them are known for their energy, it will be 
 interesting to see them together onscreen.
 
 Darshan and   
 He's the most massy star of them all, while she's the new pin-up girl for young men. Darshan and Rashmika Mandanna make a pair that has many people excited. With Milana Prakash helming this film, it will be a treat.
 
 Upendra and Rachita Ram
 The Real Star will be back as a common man on the big screen, with an as-yet-untitled film by K Madesh. Joining him as his heroine will be Rachita Ram, someone who has been seen only in the 'right' film projects so far. This is a pair worth waiting for. 
 
 Rakshit Shetty and  
 Rakshit Shettywill be teaming up with Shanvi Srivastava for an as-yet-untitled romantic film that will be helmed by editor Sachin of Ulidavaru Kandante fame. 
 
 Chiranjeevi Sarja and Sharmiela Mandre
 Chiranjeevi Sarja's films, like Aatagara, among others, have brought him back in the reckoning. And   sees him team up with Aatagara director KM Chaitanya again, while he has Shamiela Mandre as his heroine in this horror flick. 
 
 Chandan and  
 As the launchpad of a star kid in Kannada, there's a lot to expect from Arjun Sarja's daughter Aishwarya's first film, given the lineage of her family. She has pin-up boy Chandan as her co-star in Prema Baraha.
 
 Chetan and Meghana Raj
 Chetan's been a poster-boy among girls. Meghana Raj comes from arguably great film pedigree and their pairing for the first time in the period college-drama Noorondu Nenapu has definitely sparked a lot of curiosity among Sandalwood fans.
 
