AHMEDABAD: A controversy has broken out over the   which reportedly was killed in a   early on Friday morning. Local officials say that the   that was found dead near   was killed in a train accident but   lovers say that it was killed somewhere else and then put on the railway track.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests G K Sinha said the death of the sub-adult lioness is under scanner and officials have been asked to find out if it was killed at so me other place and later put on the tracks.
 
 “We also have some leads and are exploring all an gles. Even the postmortem is be ing carried out to find out if the lion was killed be fore it was put on the track,“ Sinha said.
 
 DCF Amreli, Shakira Begum, said the incident took place at about 2:45 pm when the lion cub (female) was run over by the train. “We have found traces of blood for about five feet from the spot.Lion hair was also found on the track. We have taken the statement of the driver and have sent the lion's body for further examination,“ the DCF said.
 
 She, however, said that it seems to be a clear case of accident. The DCF said that the government had put up fences but, since this area is near Rajula town, it was not fenced and hence the accident had taken place. This is the fourth such incident at the place in a year.
 
 Member of the National Board for Wildlife, H S, Singh said that from the photograph it appears that the train's speed was above the allowed 30 km per hour.
 
 “The lion must have fallen and, before it could get up, the train may have run over it. I feel that the accident was because the train was overspeeding,“ Singh said. Wildlife activist Jaidev Dhadhal said the carcass of the lioness found on the rail way track near Vadli, Rajula, appears to have been put on the track after it was killed somewhere else. “It was killed and later dumped on railway tracks to make it look like an accident. We demand that the forensic investigating team be involved to find out the exact cause of death,“ Dhadhal said.
 
 Meanwhile, in another incident, a nine-year-old lion was killed in infighting in Rajula area. The fight, according to officials, was for territory.
 
