AGRA: Thousands of children were present at several schools across Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, which happened to be the birthday of Prime Minister  . They sang songs, got some sweets and snacks, and were made to take a pledge to work for ‘Swachh Bharat’. 

 From Mathura to Mainpuri, Meerut to Muzaffarnagar and beyond, students from primary to class VIII, in uniform, could be seen taking the pledge in school premises. Many teachers said educational institutions had been asked to remain open and teachers had been directed to be present “without fail”. 
 
 An order issued by the Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Lucknow, Praveen Kumar Tripathi had said that schools in Lucknow, in both the rural and urban areas, would remain open from 8am till 4pm for a Pulse Polio Drive. The order had also directed the teachers to be present at the school. The BSA could not be contacted. Director Basic Shiksa Sarvendra Vikram Singh said that no orders had been issued from the directorate level to open schools on Sunday. 
 
 In some schools, teachers confirmed that they had been asked to attend so that they could conduct a Pulse Polio campaign. On September 7, TOI had reported that schools had been directed to stay open on September 17, even though it was a Sunday, with attendance being compulsory for students and teachers. The UP government had issued a statement on September 8 denying the TOI report, saying, “There is no proposal with the state government to keep primary schools open onSeptember 17.” 
 
 Satendra Kumar, basic shiksha adhikari of Meerut district, told TOI: “All 1,300 primary and junior schools were open in Meerut on Sunday. Also, since it was the PM’s birthday, teachers told students about his life and made them take the ‘swachhata’ pledge. There were no instructions to celebrate the birthday.” 
 
 In Mainpuri, Avnendra Kumar, headmaster of a primary school in Karhal said, “As it was the PM’s birthday, we distributed sweets to the children and made them take the cleanliness pledge. Officially, it was a Polio campaign.” Asked why senior students had also come to school, the teachers said they had been roped in to help conduct the programme. 
 
 In the PM’s constituency of Varanasi, birthday celebrations were organised at almost all primary schools on Saturday, although UP government officials expressed ignorance about it.
 
