KOLKATA: The   on   -the recent ones being reported from   and R G Kar -led the top brass of Lalbazar to brainstorm and find solutions to the problem. Top sources said that repeated consultations in the past three days -the most important one taking place on Friday with various health department and government hospital officials -have led cops to adopt a combination of the ambitious NRS and SSKM models.

 A day after the vandalism at the  , the chief minister had formed a three-member committee with state home secretary, DG and Kolkata Police commissioner to suggest ways to plug the security gaps in state-run hospitals in Kolkata.
 
 So, how will it work? According to sources, the first job will be to break the tout-hospital staff nexus. “An analysis shows that non-doctor staffers are using influence to admit higher number of patients than what is possible for the junior doctors to handle.While the nexus might not be easy to break, it is imperative that such drives continue,“ said a source. On the ground, security audit reve aled that bigger hospitals like SSKM needed around 100 cops to man the compound. In three shifts, that would mean 300 men on the job. Considering the fact that a police station doesn't even have so many men, the next step is being taken. “Besides an outpost that will have 20 men round-the-clock, cops will be on duty at   like emergency with wireless sets so that they can alert colleagues at the outpost. A vehicle will be provided to the men at the outpost so that they can rush in whenever needed,“ said an officer.
 
 An ambitious plan drawn up for NRS Hospital, where attacks on junior doctors became a regular affair, is also likely to see its completion. Till now, the plan drawn up last June has partially been implemented with all stakeholders -the health department, police and PWD -dragging their feet. All CCTV footage from important wards are now available with the NRS police outpost. The future plan is to connect them with both the DC office and the local Entally police station.
 
 “We made a number of suggestions ­ putting up CCTVs at emergency wards and connecting it with DC office and local police station, reconstructing the police outpost towards the main gates and putting additional checkpoints so that a mob cannot enter the emergency wards,“ said a source.
 
 The police, on Tuesday, decided to insist that the rule regarding the number of people who can enter the emergency ward should be properly displayed.
 
