PANAJI: Days after VJ Raghu campaigned for the   (AAP) in Goa, he has become a major cause for a war of words between AAP and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters online. While those backing   are sharing a video of Raghu being cornered by a student’s arguments, AAP supporters are sharing a clipping of Raghu clarifying that the video is using information selectively.

 AAP and BJP supporters have the most online presence as the date for the Goa assembly polls draws closer. Every day there is a new bone of contention, which is cause for some bitter argument, some that cross all lines while taking on the opponent.
 
 IT professional Samir Kelekar, who lost the Panaji seat to BJP’s Siddharth Kuncalienkar in the 2015 bypolls, said he often found himself attacked by a group of 10 or more BJP supporters when he had fought the elections. “I was added to WhatsApp groups like Goa Politics, which I did not know at the time were created by BJP supporters. I really found myself badly hit at the time. Now they do not attack me, but Valmiki Naik (of AAP) is a favourite target.”
 
 Kelekar feels the 24x7 online activity of BJP supporters is organized. “If they had a job it would affect their work to be constantly online like that. They definitely have to be on someone’s payroll to be able to put in that kind of systematic effort,” he said.
 
  IT cell incharge Kuncalienkar, however, denies such allegations. “While social media is definitely a direct tool to reach out to people, it is also true that some nefarious elements misuse the same to spread hatred and false news. Our team is always reasonable in its interactions. We do not encourage false news or malicious content,” Kunkalienkar told TOI.
 
 Sankalp Chandelkar, chief influencing officer of  , became an online target after releasing a survey by his organisation last year stating AAP would bag the maximum seats in Goa in 2017. “I feel there is little strategic planning by parties in Goa. Some supporter somewhere uses filthy language and that is not helping their campaign in anyway. There is no monitoring of such elements,” he said.
 
 Valmiki Naik of AAP claims there are no guidelines issued to any AAP volunteers on their online behaviour and states that their supporters are naturally conscientious. “You have to keep your own message positive. I have found many ground workers through social media,” he said.
 
 
