PUNE:   is without a doubt the best bowler for Rising Pune Supergiant this season. The legspinner has already taken 16 wickets from 10 games. But it's not just the   success that Tahir is upbeat about. He is also happy for being one of the marquee players in the Global Destination League, a proposed T20 league by Cricket South Africa.

 "This is the right time to have a league (in SA). We have a right environment, have the best grounds in the world and South Africa has a great atmosphere for cricket," said Tahir. "It is good for the cricket in the country, for the people, especially for the youngsters. Many of our youngsters go overseas to play cricket. This league will help them play and earn at home."
 
 His 'all good' doesn't mean Tahir lacks depth. His ability to introspect has played a great role in his progress.
 
 Whether it is about admitting his limitations of not turning the ball as per his liking or being grateful for things he had achieved so far, Tahir never fails to communicate with himself.
 
 He understands that it is his variety that makes him among the best T20 bowlers in the world. And he works diligently on upgrading his repertoire. "All the bowlers are different. I can't be   and he can't be someone else. He had the ability to spin the ball, he was master of spin. But I don't have that ability (to turn the ball) and I admit that," said 38-year-old Tahir when asked about his variations. "When I started bowling, working on the variations was the only option for me since I didn't have a big leg spinner or the slider. I felt I should have options of bowling a small leg-spinner or a big one if at all I needed to bowl leg spin. I also knew that I needed to learn to bowl googly from top, middle, sideways (other than) to know how to bowl my sliders, my flippers or whatever. In modern cricket, it is very hard if you have one or two balls. You either spin the ball like Warne or have variations like  ."
 
 But learning the variations was not a cakewalk. There were times when he himself wasn't sure of the outcomes of his bowling.
 
 "Since playing in the T20 World Cup in Bangladesh in 2014, I think I know what I am doing with the ball. Before that I was just hoping (to bowl with accuracy). Sometimes, I used to bowl leg-spin but the pitch wouldn't allow and it used to go straight," he said before adding with a laugh: "Those used to be the variations that even I didn't know of, so how can the batsmen know.
 
 "But after the World Cup, I went to the nets for two months and worked really hard. My wife used to help me by throwing the ball back to me. That's when I learnt more about my bowling. I am more certain of what I am bowling and what the ball is doing."
 
 Tahir, drafted into the Pune team for injured  , is not shy of admitting he was upset when wasn't picked in the auctions. But he also gave reasons why that's not a big deal.
 
 "There were a lot bigger challenges I have had. I lost my parents and I don't think there can be anything harder than that," said Tahir, who had represented Pakistan in the Under-19 World Cup in 1998, before shifting to South Africa.
 
 "I don't like to say that I am here to prove myself. There are people in the world who don't have food to eat, so I will be the last one to complain. I am grateful to god for everything that I have. I used to work at a shop and coming here and complaining is not me."
 
 Tahir as a teenager had also worked as a salesman at a retail shop in Lahore.
 
