Mother’s Day was on last Sunday. And that was the day   died. She was 13- years- old and had bone marrow cancer. She should have been alive today because her doctors had told her that, with treatment she would get better. Then why didn’t she get that treatment? The million-dollar question.

 A short while before her death, Sai Sree recorded a selfie video message to her father. Begging him to pay for her treatment and save her life. Begging for a chance to go to Class 10, and be able to play with her friends. Begging him to sell the flat that was in her name and pay the costs. Telling him that she had no resources and that he was the only one who could give her a fighting chance at life. But far from selling the flat, he allegedly sent his men to forcibly occupy a portion of the premises so there could be no attempt on the mother’s part to sell it. Finally, he did not respond and she is not alive.
 
 Why did this happen? That selfie video was a last recourse to that child. She and her mother had exhausted almost every official sanctuary that was meant to safeguard the rights of citizens in need. Her mother says today that they were stonewalled at every stage and denied the support that would have ensured justice and the life of her child. Why was it allowed to happen? These words of mine are not only an outpouring of my grief at a young life cut short so senselessly, but also a sense of bewilderment at such an epic failure of a system that has been put in place to protect the rights of citizens. Especially the right to life.
 
 Much awareness is being generated today of cancer and I am doing my best to add to the furor. Cancer is a reality that will not go away because we hide our heads in the sand and to be aware, empowered and proactive is the best fighting chance we can have in this battle. But then again, this article is not about cancer. It is about a system that must ensure and enforce the rights of citizens, of all ages, when they seek to fight for life over death. A system that must work within itself with its own components to be true guardians of its people. When a plea like Sai Sree’s was made, it needs to be addressed on several fronts. Not only is it an issue of law and order, due to the intimidation they faced, but it is also about the rights of a wife to expect support from her husband, the rights of a mother to seek justice for her child, and most, excruciatingly important, the right of a child to fight for her life. To seek her rightful due in her father’s support to stay alive. 
 
 Today, as Indians, we are a society in a state of flux. There is much churning of the social and governmental machinery that is our inheritance of almost 70 years of self-rule and many things are being thrown up, good and bad. While the good is well and good, it is the bad that holds the power to damage lives and hold us moribund as a nation. We must recognise the urgency for the various departments of welfare to work together and protect citizens’ rights — law and order, social welfare, womens’ rights, family welfare, human rights and most important, children’s rights. It is when a system protects the weakest and the most innocent of its people, that it delivers a truly effective and successful social justice.
 
 Our children are our dreams, our treasure and our future. In them we see ourselves and through our children, we live many lives. Is this what we wish to leave of ourselves? Is this the world that we bequeath to our descendants, the ones we arrogate ourselves to bring onto this earth? It is beyond due time that we, as citizens, take the responsibility of ensuring an integrated system of governance that truly leaves no one behind. Especially our children. Let us exercise our right to question the wrongs, to demand accountability and, most important, take up the responsibility to ensure the right thing is done — for our children and so, ourselves. And friends, we have that responsibility and that right. We are a democratic nation.
 
  Jai Hind!
 
 
  
 
 
