It was 7:30pm on Saturday and an air of anxiety enveloped the  , Kondhapur. A few, who had reached the venue, kept looking at the entry gate from the corner of their eyes while shaking hands with acquaintances. 
“The invites said 7 pm and now its 7:30 pm. Where’s the crowd?” a middle-aged gentleman asked another, both dressed for the occasion. They were probably the organisers, we guessed. 
 Fifteen minutes passed and suddenly, a sea of youths arrived. They were eager to barge in, but were asked to queue up by those in-charge. It wasn’t difficult to identify that they were college students, dressed in black tees embossed with prints of their favourite bands — Motherjane,  ,   and the occasional Guns ‘N’ Roses. 
 Seeing the venue stuffed with people in no time, the two gentlemen smiled at each other and joined the rush towards the hall, and we knew we had a show on our hands.
 
 
 
 Before the evening’s main attraction,  , took over, a bunch of college-goers got up on stage. Named Crescendo, they kicked off the proceedings with songs carefully chosen to keep the crowd’s energy running for the veterans to come and exploit. 
 Comprising   students, Crescendo helped the gathering warm up with popular numbers including AR Rahman’s Humma Humma and Raghu Dixit’s Jag Changa among others. But it was Ee Babu Gariki from the OST of   that elicited maximum cheers. “We would like to cover a song, which has been originally sung by Sooraj Santhos, the vocalist of Masala Coffee,” announced Nikhil Reddy, the vocalist of the band, before the guitarist broke into the song’s popular riff. 
 
 
 “This is our first concert in Hyderabad as a band. Personally, I love Hyderabad because I started my playback career from this city,” informed Sooraj before breaking on to Masala Coffee’s first song of the evening. Clad in the traditional kurta and dhoti, the band went beyond the language barrier and sang in multiple languages ranging from Tamil, Telugu, Malyalam and Hindi. 
 Their vibrant rhythm section — the djembe, cajon, idiophone percussion instruments and the drum — held the tempo tight and gave ample space to the melodiers — the guitar and the violin — to flourish. And vocalist Sooraj aptly threw some good compositions into the mix and a perfect cup of ‘masala coffee’ was taiyyar. 
 With a set list dedicated to covers of popular OSTs, the ensemble initially seemed like a cover band. But that feeling didn’t last long as they poured in their “hand-ground spices” such as Arivaal and Once Upon A Time In Punjab into the brew. They were groovy and the occasional double bass on Daya Shankar’s drum, Pauly’s slaps on the bass and Joe Johnsson’s lightning-fast fingers on the keys were enough to pull even the sheepish of the lot to shake a leg to their tunes.
 Amid all this, a young woman awkwardly asked her husband, who was attending to their child, “I hadn’t heard of Masala Coffee until today, had you?” “No, but I have had masala tea,” the husband joked. We are sure by the time the band belted out a medley of Rahman’s numbers as encore, the couple must have had the taste of the beverage after which the band is named — masala coffee. 
 
 
 
 Masala Coffee was born when childhood friends Sooraj Santhos and Varun Sunil decided to blend their musical expertise, and called their friends for a jam. “The idea struck us after we got a slot to perform in a popular show on TV,” says Varun, who shoulders percussion and additional vocal duties in the band.
  “People like our brand of contemporary folk fusion and we like to keep it as is, 
 especially during live shows,” says Sooraj. So, are they a cover band with a few originals? “No, we are working on a full-length original album, which will be 
 out soon. At this event, we sang Arivaal from that album. In fact. we have been working on a music video for it,” adds Varun. 
 Speaking about the recent 
 incident of fans walking out of AR Rahman’s concert over the maestro singing more Tamil songs than Hindi in Wembley, Sooraj points out that music and politics are separate. “How many times does a musician needs to say that music has no language? We have had enough wars in the name of territory, water, greed and what not. Please keep 
 music out of politics,” he says, adding, “It’s sad to see people impose 
 ownership rights on a global musician like Rahman.”
 
 
 
