Bhopal: A 40-year-old contractual worker of BHEL was crushed to death on Saturday morning when an iron plate weighing a tonne fell on him. The Theka Majdoor Sangh and BHEL unions alleged that poor safety measures led to the accident and that it was the third death in three years in the factory. 

 BHEL’s executive director AMV Yugandhar has formed a three-member probe committee that will submit its report within a week. The victim, Babloo Bharti, was using a crane to move the iron plate in Bay–IA of the foundry division around 8.30am. 
 
 The sling holding up the plate apparently gave way, sending it crashing on Babloo. He died on the spot. He was taken to Kasturba hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. He is survived by two sons, a daughter, wife and parents. 
 
 The Theka Majdoor Sangh blames the BHEL management. “Despite three deaths, nothing was learnt. The life of every worker inside the factory is in danger as such accidents can happen any day,” said sangh president Manoj Singh Jadone. He also alleged that the crane was not checked properly before being used. “You can see the quality of helmet and shoes provided to labourers. For cranes and slings to perform properly, they have to be in top condition. Good inspection and maintenance are very important. Unfortunately, this is not happening,” Jadone said.
 
 Deepak Gupta, president of the INTUC (Youth) union in BHEL, demanded proper compensation to the family. “Babloo was working in BHEL for seven years. His family should be given the maximum compensation,” said Gupta, alleging that safety measures were not up to the mark.
 
 BHEL-Bhopal PRO Vinodananda Jha said the plate “accidentally slipped” injuring Babloo in the head. “All safety measures are being taken on the campus for the safety of employees and labourers. Action will be taken if any one is found guilty,” said Jha. Contractor Shramik Kalyan Samiti has announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the kin of the victim.
 
 Yugandhar assured all help to Babloo’s family. “In spite of following all safety parameters, such incidents are extremely disheartening,” he said.
 
 
