CHENNAI:   may not face any loss by implementing   ( ) and the state may not even avail of the compensation due to   as Tamil Nadu, apart from being a manufacturing state, was also a big consumption state, said state planning, development and special initiatives secretary S Krishnan.

 The loss and gain owing to implementation of GST may match, he said at a discussion on TN budget at Madras School of Development Studies (MIDS) on Friday, which was attended by economists and experts.
 
 “The Centre has promised to compensate states like Tamil Nadu which are considered manufacturing states. But at the same time, our state is also a big consumer of almost all goods and services. Basically, GST is favourable for consumption states as it is a consumption-end tax. Thus we may be   neutral and may not avail ourselves of the compensation,” said Krishnan.
 
 But the Tamil Nadu government fears that there may be time delay in receiving money from other states as per the GST regime. “We have an efficient tax department and there won’t be any delay in transferring money to other states as their tax share but whether the same will happen to what is due to us is a big question,” said Krishnan.
 
 The secretary chaired the discussion on TN budget and after an introduction on GST and state finances, he asked experts to give their opinion on the financial status of the state.
 
 “Tamil Nadu has a higher tax-GSDP ratio of 8.8 to 10.1% and it is higher than even Maharashtra. But if we remove liquor and petrol, the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu falls to 3.8 to 4.4%. This shows that the state is highly dependent on these two tax sources,” said Madras University economics professor R Srinivasan.
 
 Similarly, Tamil Nadu is one of the highly urbanised states in the country. “As per the 2011 census, 48% of the state is urbanized, but the contribution of revenue from stamp and registration is pretty low. There is basically something wrong in tax collection,” said Srinivasan. He said if one went deeper into the revenue collection from liquor, one may find a big leakage in that too. The tax department must be tuned to plug the leakages, the professor said.
 
 Contrary to Srinivasan’s views, former director of Madras School of Economics K R Shanmugam said the state’s finances are not so alarming as it was being made out. “It is only due to historical drought, demonetisation and political instability that the tax revenue is not up to the mark. But it is only a temporary phase,” said Shanmugam.
 
 IIT-Madras professor V R Muraleedharan made a case for more government spending on health as many poor people still were dependent on government health care. Industrial Economist editor S Viswanathan and Unicef planning specialist Akila Radhakrishnan also spoke.
 
 
