BENGALURU: In an innovative attempt to  , a 22-year-old man flew in with flasks, computer motherboards,  , a woman's purse and a wrist watch with components made of gold.

 Customs officers at   (KIA) melted the parts and said he'd attempted to smuggle 1.47kg of gold worth more than lakh.
 
 Customs officials said   vathin, a salesman from Kozhikode in Kerala, disembarked from an Emirates flight from Dubai on Saturday. “During passenger profiling, we found he was a first-time flyer and was returning home from Dubai via Bengaluru after a monthlong stay. We got suspicious and examined his baggage. We found a lot of flasks, keyboard instruments and solar panel chargers,“ said an officer.
 
 As Poovathin was unable to give convincing answers about why he was carrying so many items, customs officials scanned the goods. “At first we sent the two flasks through the scanner and saw that the insulation material was brighter than usual. We soon ascertained that it was gold,“ said the officer. The team examined the other items and found that all the flasks had insulation material replaced with gold. The panels of the solar chargers had been replaced with gold as had been the components of the computer motherboards. The solid gold parts had been given a mercury coating to avoid detection.
 
 The clasp of a woman's purse that Poovathin was carrying had been remade in gold and the clips had been replaced they were dipped in mercu ry. He was also carrying three chains with links of gold covered with silver paint, a source said.
 
 Poovathin told investigators that he had gone to Dubai in January on the invitation of friends who paid for his stay and tickets. He said he was unaware of the gold components inside the goods, which he was supposed to hand over to someone outside Kozhikode airport. Investigators arrested him and sent him to judicial custody on Sunday.
 
 “It is evidently the work of Dubai based gold smuggling gangs with strong Kerala ties. They have specialised goldsmiths in the Gulf who craft molten gold into machine components and electronic parts and smuggle them into India in items of daily use such as iron boxes, ovens, heaters, flasks and torch lights,“ said a senior customs officer at KIA.
 
 This year, so far, customs officers at KIA have seized 3.8kg of gold worth more than Rs1.12 crore in six busts involving passengers from Dubai, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Thailand.
 
