BENGALURU: He has been a one-man army, fearless leader, bowlers' nightmare. So when   Bengaluru lost to   in  's season opener on Wednesday,   was naturally missed. Kohli the batsman and the leader is hard to replace and when RCB take on   at home on Saturday night, the 11 players on the field will need to fill in the void by shouldering responsibility and delivering.

 As if Kohli's absence is not enough, RCB will miss opener KL Rahul through the season while AB de Villiers is doubtful for the first home game. The trio, who together scored 75 per cent of RCB's runs last season, all missed the match in Hyderabad which explained the defeat. Against Delhi, they face a daunting task. The Shane Watson-led side was found wanting in inspiration, application and execution. They leaked runs, appeared to have butterfingers in the field, lacked discipline with their bowling and intent while batting. They would need to tick a number of boxes at the M Chinnaswamy stadium on Saturday.
 
 With de Villiers doubtful, the home team will have turn to Chris Gayle, Mandeep Singh and Kedar Jadhav again to put some good numbers on the board against a bowling attack led by veteran Zaheer Khan. Gayle, who is 31 runs short of becoming the first player to score 10,000 T20 runs, will be the batting mainstay and will have to come up with a special score. RCB don't have too many choices to beef up their batting and will do well to focus on getting their bowling combination right. Going by the bowling show in the first match, the investments haven't fetched the desired results.
 
 While Tymal Mills is expected to lead the bowling pack, the think-tank will have to choose between Aniket Choudhary and Sreenath Arvind, as playing three left-arm pacers will take the sting and variety away from the attack.
 
 Delhi too have been hit by injuries and withdrawal of key players like Quinton de Kock, Angelo Mathews and JP Duminy. The worry lines for mentor Rahul Dravid have only got deeper with Shreyas Iyer being ruled out for a couple of weeks due to chickenpox. While they will rely heavily on Karun Nair and Rishab Pant in the batting department, bowling options include all-rounder Carlos Brathwaite and Aussie pacer Pat Cummins.
 
 
