CHENNAI: The   has decided to   for  , beginning with higher secondary classes in 2018-19. This comes in the wake of criticism that the state syllabus is below par and is insufficient to equip students to meet the challenges of multiple national-level competitive examinations.

 While the state government's efforts, including passing of a legislation, to exempt TN from a common medical entrance test have come a cropper, the Centre's plan to bring in a single entrance test for admission to engineering colleges across the country has come as yet another blow.“Textbooks would be available shortly for the forthcoming academic year. However, we are likely to revise the syllabus for the 2018-19 academic year; an announcement would be made soon,“ school education minister K A Sengottaiyan told TOI. “The students are upset (over NEET),“ the minister said, recalling the futile efforts taken by the state, including meetings with Union ministers to get the Presidential nod for TN bills.
 
 A high-level committee led by Sengottaiyan will meet on Thursday to set the ball rolling for improving the curriculum .While indications are that the state will be incorporating NCERT curriculum, government sources said `local' con tent too will have its place in subjects like Tamil, History and Political Science. “The government is looking at various strategies, including honing the higher-order thinking skills of students, giving weightage to Class 11 marks to prevent students from skipping classes, and putting in place a competitive exam-oriented curriculum that's better than that of CBSE,“ said a government official. The govern ment has planned to take all the stakeholders into confidence by convening meetings across the state.
 
 Noted academician, E Balagurusamy , who is also member of the panel said it was high time the state syllabus was revised to be on a par with that of CBSE. “ By Thursday , we will know whether separate subject-wise committees will be formed to frame the curriculum, or we will work on improving the already updated syllabus. Since it's too late to revise the syllabus this year, we will do it for the next academic year,“ the former Anna University vice-chancellor said. The syllabus for higher secondary classes was last changed in 2005. While a panel to improve school curri culum was set up in 2012, the school education department has seen more than five ministers so far.
 
 Former chairman of IIT Kanpur M Anandakrishnan said the problem has a lot to do with the fundamentally flawed teaching and learning process. “The students do not understand the fundamentals of Physics, Chemistry or Mathematics. Teachers must be trained too,“ he said.
 
 Prince Gajendrababu, general secretary , state platform for common schooling system, said the Samacheer Kalvi introduced in 2010 was designed as per the National Curriculum Framework 2005 and the complaints on quality were being raised only by matriculation schools.
 
