JAISALMER: Rajasthan High Court has sought reply from state government over   faced by BSF jawans deployed at 184 border outposts (BOPs) at   adjoining Jaisalmer.

 It has asked as why water has not been provided all these years to villagers and jawans in border districts. The high court has summoned chief secretary on April 11 seeking his reply in person. Times of India had published this news on December 16 over the water problem as Rs 1.5 crore is spent by BSF every year to provide water to BOPs through tankers and RO plants at BOPs are almost non-functional. 
 
 BSF jawans deployed at Indo-Pak border don’t get pure and safe drinking water due to delay in   and other drinking water projects in the area. High court judge Govind Mathur, Vineet Kumar summoned chief secretary over drinking water crisis for and fluoride water in border areas of Barmer and Jaislamer. 
 
 All RO plants at border are lying dysfunctional and jawans are forced to drink saline water. The 703 kms long border of Jaisalmer-Barmer that adjoins with Pakistan border has 184 BOPs, but only 22 BOPs have water supply through pipeline or from wells, whereas at other BOPs, water is supplied through tankers. The tankers ferry water from 50-60 kms away to BOPs.
 
 There is no underground water near border and in such situation water tankers have to be taken from PHED schemes and at many places jawans drink saline water from well through which water is supplied to many BOPs. Rs 1.5 crore project for laying pipeline to border posts of three sectors of Jaisalmer-Barmer is pending for last three years with home ministry and state government. Even in Bikaner, water is not reaching border from canal area. 
 
 Recently, union home minister Rajnath Singh visited border areas and was apprised of the drinking water problem which surprised him, but he could not bring out any solution till date. In such situation, the question is why no pipeline has been laid from Indira Gandhi canal. 
 
 During his recent visit to Jaislmer BSF DG said home ministry has approved all projects to provide drinking water at the border.
 
