VARANASI: As huge a response to his “janata darshan” on Saturday was the crowd that greeted   on Sunday though his   that was to begin at 3pm from Pandeypur started only at 5.10pm. Like on Saturday, the roadshow on Sunday was led by scores of bike-borne BJP workers shouting slogans like: “Ek hi naara, ek hi naam, Jai shri Ram jai shri Ram” and “Har har Modi, ghar ghar Modi”. 

 People waited on terrace of their houses and other establishments for hours to catch a glimpse of the prime minister, who is MP from   Lok Sabha constituency. The MP in him came to the fore as Modi made gestures to greet the public. As the roadshow reached Hukkulganj, an area with considerable Muslim population, Modi spotted a girl standing with her family members aiming a garland at him. Much to her excitement, the PM whisked the garland from her hands, a gesture that earned loud applause from the huge crowd moving along with his cavalcade. 
 
 “Have you seen any MP frequenting his Lok Sabha constituency as much as   and that too when he is the Prime Minister of the country,” said Harishanker Yadav, a resident of Teliyabagh, waiting for a glimpse of Modi. Earlier, a   supporter, Yadav switched to supporting BJP after Modi was elected. “Go to Gurudham colony and see how underground cabling has brought relief to residents,” said Jitendra Chaudhary, a resident of Sigra standing in the group. 
 
 Later, the PM spotted a man trying to throw a shawl at him and made it a point to accept it from him, along with an application. The PM’s roadshow moved in City North Vidhan Sabha constituency where sitting MLA Ravindra Jaiswal is facing stiff opposition from Abdul Samad Ansari of Samajwadi Party and Sujit Maurya of the Bahujan Samaj Party. Speaking to TOI, Teliyabagh resident Satish Kumar said, “It’s the Modi magic doing wonders everywhere.” 
 
 The PM's roadshow then passed through Chaukghat Crossing where huge crowd waited to welcome him. “Modi ji has brought fame to Varanasi,” said Amarjeet Singh, resident of Dharmshala area and added that since afternoon news channels were talking only about the localities of Varanasi. “And believe me, despite media reports that demonetisation will have negative impact on the BJP, it has done wonders and has helped in polarising pro-poor against pro-rich.” 
 
 At 7.20pm, the roadshow finally reached Maldahiya Crossing, its culminating point. The PM's cavalcade then enters the historical Kashi Vidya Peeth, where he was scheduled to address a gathering of City North and Varanasi Cantt vidhan sabha constituencies. After meeting intellectuals at DLW Guest House, the PM stayed in Varanasi to address a rally at Rohaniya and Sevapuri constituencies.
 
 
