A day after BERC approved hike in power tariff for 2017-18, Bihar principal secretary (energy) 
  said the government would take a decision on subsidy to power consumers before April 1. The overall increase of 55% looks a bit high because it has been calculated without taking the subsidy into account, the official, who is also the  , told TOI’s 
 on Saturday. Excerpts:

 
 
 Power distribution companies (discoms) were not allowed to up tariff during the past three years, except a marginal increase of 2.43% for 2015-16. The hike is proposed from April 1 after making comparisons with the tariff structure of neighbouring states. 
 
 
 Subsidy will be given after examination of the BERC (Bihar Electtricity Regulatory Commission) order by higher authorities. We are yet to receive a copy of the order. The government will take a decision with an open mind.
 
 
 
 It was for the first time that any state in the country filed its tariff petition to the regulator without taking subsidy into account. We did it because we wanted the regulator (BERC) to know the exact financial status of the discoms before deciding for or against the tariff revision. Moreover, subsidy is a prerogative of the government and the regulator has no role to play in it.
 
 
 
 Discoms do not derive pleasure from hiking power tariff. They do it because they cannot afford to supply power at a cheaper rate. We have quoted a tariff structure which will only enable us to meet our establishment, operation and maintenance costs.
 
 Take, for instance, the case of Kutir Jyoti ( ) consumers who in Bihar are charged at the rate of Rs.1.20/unit for the first 100 units whereas the power supply cost comes to Rs 4/unit. Other states charge Rs 3/per unit for this category.
 
 
 Tariff alone can’t ensure efficiency of power companies. Even after the hike as okayed by BERC on Friday, we have to bridge a gap of Rs 594.35 crore in the Aggregate Revenue Requirement of the two discoms by improving billing and collection, among other things. 
 
