PUNE: Santosh Holi’s is a story of determination and perseverance. 

 After failing to get sponsorship for a  , Santosh used an eight-year-old bike to break the Guinness world record for the longest solo, unsupported journey by bicycle in a single country. 
 
 All by himself, Holi covered 15,222km in 111 days on a single-speed cycle, breaking Prasad Erande’s previous record of covering 14,576km in 141 days. 
 
 Sweetening the achievement is the sentimental value he attaches to his cycle.
 
 “That bike is very special to me,” Holi told TOI. “It was a gift from my wife on our first Valentine’s Day as a married couple. She gave me the bike so I can reduce my post-wedding weight. Little did I know that it would help me break a world record,” Holi added with a smile.
 
 His record-breaking journey started from Bhakti Shakti chowk in Nigdi on April 13, 2015. When his trip culminated on January 31, 2016 near the Karnataka-Kerala border, the 33-year-old had covered 22 states. He began every day at 6am, and covered an average of 137.37km over the course of 12 hours. 
 
 It may sound like a gruelling schedule, but Holi had it covered. In fact, he killed two birds with one stone, thanks to a sensible, frugal diet. The Moshi resident [originally from Solapur] maintained a strict diet comprising boiled leafy greens and eggs, and dal fry and roti. 
 
 “Since I preferred to eat simple food and stayed away from high-protein foods, I saved a lot of money,” Holi said. To further save money, he spent the nights in temples, gurdwaras or dharmashalas, as the rates were low.
 
 “All these little adjustments added up,” Holi explained, “I spent only Rs1.35 lakh on the tour, which otherwise would have cost me Rs7-8 lakh.”
 
 Holi made use of sophisticated technology to track his progress. A GPS system imported from Australia, worth Rs40,000, was attached to his bicycle to track his movement. Apart from this, there were sensors on his pedals to record his speed as well as a heart-rate monitor.
 
 “The technology ensures that one doesn’t cheat, and actually pedalled to the extent claimed,” Holi said. “I had to also carry a log that required a stamp or signature from government officials from the various cities I stopped in. These, with my GPS data, are proof that I visited all those places,” he added. 
 
 This was not his first such tour. In 2013, he rode 1,800km from   The following year, he paid tribute to Swami Vivekananda by cycling 3,700km in just 23 days, from Jammu & Kashmir to Kanyakumari. This even earned Holi an entry in the Limca Book of Records, India, for the fastest   solo expedition on a single-speed bicycle.
 
 “People have the misconception that one can excel in a sport only with high-end equipment. It surely helps make the journey less difficult, but the lack thereof does not mean one can’t succeed,” he said. 
 
 Holi next plans to cover the golden quadrilateral (Chennai-Kolkata-Delhi-Mumbai) in just 15 days, breaking the existing record of 20 days.
 
