Chennai: Even in this age of digitization, globally banks still prefer to rely on physical branches as compared to the online experience. In its World Bank Report 2017, financial consultant Synechron says that of about 88% banks in EMEA and US continue to believe physical branches add value and will play a role in the future of banking.

 Nearly a quarter (24%) of banks polled intend to increase their branch network and invest in changing the model. But, nearly one in four (39%) said they plan to decrease their branch networks whilst investing in change to the current model. In India banks have started stepping up automation, robotics and virtual bank branches, including multi-functional kiosks and ATMs. Indian banks have also slowed down their branch expansion plans. In the US, banks such Bank of America have closed 243 branches or 16% of their branch force as has Citigroup with 302 branch closures or 28.5%. In the UK, also Lloyds Bank has closed around 100 branches — a pattern that could be seen across EU countries. 
 
 Another major trend across the globe is the re-modeling of existing bank branches along new digital lines. 
 
 “About 63% of respondents are planning to change their branch model in line with digital transformation. Retail and consumer bankers are predominantly looking towards technology to improve the in-branch customer experience and evolve the role of their staff as opposed to motives around reducing cost and reducing FTEs,” said the report.
 
 As a method of non-incentivising bank customers from visiting the branch physically, some private banks in India have been charging customers for branch visits in a push to go online. Some others have made multi-functional kiosks part of their existing branches to deal with basic requests, so that tellers can attend to more complicated financial requests. 
 
 The report says for bankers, “The top focus area for branch transformation as identified by those surveyed is to improve customer service/engagement, which 42% identified as a priority, followed closely by the evolution of the role of branch staff (40%). This, however, is followed closely by introducing digital interactive experiences (38%) and self-service automated technologies (36%).”
 
 The report also highlighted the need for a personal connect and how that can be possible only through banking staff. 
 
 
