NAVI MUMBAI:   are essential to save the city from flooding.   has 11 holding ponds, but none of them ever been cleaned so far, which reduces the capacity of the pond. The one and only pond that was ever cleaned was some 15 years ago.

 In an attempt to get the ponds cleared, the NMMC will append a study done by the Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) on disaster management, which reveals how important it is to clean the holding ponds to manage the storm water drainage system.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner, Ankush Chavan said, “The civic body will file a petition to the Bombay High Court in the coming week asking permission to cut the mangroves so that the holding ponds can be cleaned.” Expressing his concern Chavan said, “The capacity of the holding ponds has reduced over the years, as they have never been cleaned. We have to save the city from flooding in the rains as it is a reclaimed city.”
 
 An annual green report of NMMC states, “The capacity of holding ponds in NMMC area has reduced due to mangroves and silt deposition of about 0.5 to 1.5 m.”
 
 The civic body’s environment department informed, “Except for one holding pond in sector 8A in Vashi, none have been cleaned ever. There is silt deposit due to the waste carried from the nullahs during monsoon, particularly during the July 2005 rain when parts of the city got flooded. Further, saline ingress of creek water during high tide has brought mangrove propagules and that has led to mangrove growth. This is not natural mangrove and so we should get the court nod to cut them and clean the ponds.”
 
 NMMC’s advocate, Kamlesh Ghumre informed, “We will move a notice of motion before the HC praying that NMMC be allowed to de silt and clean the holding ponds. Also, cut any mangroves that have grown up in the pond due to which their capacity have decreased.”
 
 It’s HC rule that mangroves will not be cut, however, NMMC plans to revive the action plan that it had submitted in 2013 to the HC. 
 
 City engineer, Mohan Dagaonkar said, “There has not been any development after 2013 even though action plan was passed by the MCZMA.”
 
