LUCKNOW: The prospect of living with HIV virus may have seemed a daunting task for the Madiaon couple who chose to end their lives instead. But, for all those who chose life, the going hasn’t been any easy, says Mahesh, an HIV+ for 11 years now.

 “In 2005, I found out I was HIV + at a blood donation camp. I worked for a private firm and was a bachelor then. It felt my world collapsed that moment and from then on, I would just stay in my room, moping over my condition,” he said. Then a friend suggested a visit to   Network for people with HIV + & AIDS (UPNP). Mahesh says he felt like he was reborn then. 
 
 “I married an HIV+ girl in 2011 and how our lives changed! HIV + is not the end of the road but the beginning of a new journey,” says Mahesh.
 
 Like Mahesh, there many with HIV+ people who have overcome odds to lead a productive life. When Fatima (35) found out she was HIV+ in 2004, she locked herself inside her room for five days. “My sister-in-law used to curse me daily... I could hear her even from inside my room. I just wanted to die. Then a TV series gave me hope.” Fatima visited a counselling centre which led her to UPNP. 
 
 “I got married three years ago and my husband is supportive. We have decided to create awareness about HIV virus. It is not an illness and proper prevention can help the infected person feel better,” she said.
 
 “I was thrown out of my job. My colleagues laughed at me, even my own family disowned me,” says 40-year-old Suresh who was diagnosed in 2001. One night, while eating at a dhaba, he met a man who was also an HIV + and life changed thereafter. “HIV+ just requires you to take preventive measures and you can lead a healthy life,” he said. “I have got a good job and have emerged a winner,” he said.
 
 UPNP chief Naresh Yadav said HIV+ people were not criminals. It’s just that they were prone to catching infections as the virus weakens their immune system.
 
 Dr Himanshu, head of anti-retroviral (ART) therapy centre at KGMU for HIV+, said HIV never spreads by one’s saliva, sweat or urine. It is only transmitted if the blood of the infected person comes in contact with a body. Then, he said, precaution can be taken within 72 hours, known as Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), under which certain medicines reduce the exposure of the virus. He said HIV+ couples can have kids through Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT). There have been over 50 cases where children were born to couples with HIV virus, he said. 
 
 (ALL THE NAMES HAVE BEEN CHANGED) 
 
