NAGPUR: The department of oral and   surgery of government   (GDC) had treated over 19,000 patients in 2016, over 50% of all the cases were of traffic accident, said department head Dr Abhay Datarkar on Sunday. These 50% cases have basically received craniofacial treatment (subspecialty of plastic surgery), owing to deformity of head, skull, face, neck or jaw and are handled by oral and maxillofacial surgeons.

 The ‘Oral and Maxillofacial surgeons Day’ is observed on February 15 every year.
 
 On the occasion, on Monday, the department has also organized activities for the student. ‘Plant a tree, save a life’ is their theme for the day this year. On the same day, department of oral and maxillofacial surgery VSPM Dental College is organizing “FACE IT- A ROAD ACCIDENT & TRAFFIC SAFETY AWARENESS PROGRAM” at VMV College of commerce, science and arts at   at 11am. 
 
 Citing large number of cases, the department has given proposal to government about setting up a ‘Craniomaxiofacial surgery unit’ at GDC. Dr Datarkar said, “Being a tertiary care centre, the college needs this unit which nowhere exists in Central India at present.”
 
 Dr Datarkar said, “Due to sudden rise in the rate road traffic accident and interpersonal violence, there is an alarming increase in cases of craniofacial trauma.”
 
 According to his observation, the case where the person is wearing helmet come in better condition compared to the one who were not wearing it. “Even though the person wearing helmet experiences major accident, they get laceration and other minor facial injury. The ones without helmet easily get facial fractures,” he said.
 
 In 2016, the department had reported 32279 patients, while 16312 patients received treatment in Exodontia clinic. Total 8898 patients reported last year to Post Graduate Clinic out of which 267 were treated for major operations including Craniomaxillofacial trauma, facial deformities, facial aesthetic surgery, Temporomandibular (TMJ) surgery, Facial cleft, pre cancer and head and neck cancer. 2604 patients received minor surgical procedures.
 
