PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s decision to introduce the four-ward panel system for the civic polls worked well for his party which swept to power in Pune. 

 Of the 41 panels in the city, the   made a clean sweep of 16 panels where all four of its candidates registered wins. In five other panels, BJP clinched 3 seats. Of the total 162 seats, the BJP secured 98, electing 60% of the candidates to the civic body.
 
 A sizeable number of its all-ward wins came from the fringe areas where the   has had an iron control. Areas like Vadgaonsheri, Bavdhan, Vimannagar, Ghorpadi, Sinhagad Road, Market Yard and Kondhwa had BJP candidates romping home. 
 
 The panels where the BJP won all four seats have first-time corporators and those who defected from other parties. The Bavdhan-Kothrud Depot ward has four BJP corporators and all are first-time winners.
 
 Political observers said a “diligent implementation” of the panel system fetched victory for BJP in many areas. “In some panels, the party had one or two strong candidates who ensured a win for the others. The party aggressively campaigned for the entire panel and not for individual candidates. It also led to a win for RPI candidates who fought on the BJP’s symbol,” observers said.
 
 The four-ward panel system was opposed by NCP and other parties whose leaders said the extension of boundaries defeated the objective of local representation. They also said voters would cast votes for a party rather than a candidate.
 
 A political source said the NCP’s objections against the four-ward panel system came true on Thursday when the results were declared. The party was able to win only in 38 places and make a clean sweep of four panels as against the BJP’s win in 16 panels, they added. 
 
 The NCP registered wins in Warje, Kharadi, and Mundhwa but lost in Vadgaonsheri, Bavdhan, Baner and Sinhagad Road.
 
 Two ex-NCP MLAs turn tide in BJP’s favour
 
 The unprecedented results in the   civic poll have proved how two former Nationalist   (NCP) strongman played a big role in the party’s debacle. 
 
 Former NCP MLAs Mahesh Landge and Laxman Jagtap, who switched allegiance to BJP, used their clout to win 66 seats in the 128-seat civic body.
 
 Landge, who represents Bhosari assembly constituency, secured his bastion by winning 32 of the 42 seats contested while Jagtap ensured BJP’s victory in 34 of the 52 seats in his Chinchwad constituency. They won five panels each from their respective constituencies. 
 
 Jagtap told TOI the party took steps to prevent cross-voting and hence they could win in maximum panels. “We had taken efforts to prevent cross voting during our campaigning. This worked in our favour. To achieve this, we took each candidate into confidence and explained the importance of the panel system,” Jagtap said.
 
 He added that team work with Landge made a difference. “Had we not fought as a team, it would have been a daunting task to change the equation completely. Thus, right from the beginning, we worked as a team. We helped each other when required, without interfering in the other’s strongholds. This helped devise a specific strategy in each panel that made the fight simpler,” Jagtap added.
 
 In contrast, NCP could make a clean sweep in only two of the 32 panels. 
 
 “Former MLA Vilas Lande’s son was contesting, so he devoted attention to his panel. Similarly, other two senior leaders Yogesh Behl and Mangala Kadam focused on their panels. There was no synergy among party leaders which led to the debacle,” a senior leader said.
 
 A senior NCP leader, who secured his seat in the poll, told TOI, “They [Jagtap and Langde] not only managed to split the party but also worked together as a team because of which the BJP achieved a historic victory. We did not have this in our party in this election.”
 
 Some other senior NCP leaders said BJP had used muscle power and money to get votes. Former Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl accepted that Jagtap and Landge had played a decisive role in BJP’s victory, but alleged the BJP leaders had deployed criminals to threaten people, particularly in slums. 
 
 “These voters could not cast their votes till late in the evening on voting day because these criminals forced them to vote in BJP’s favour. This was the first time such a thing happened here and it needs to be probed,” Behl said.
 
 Behl refused to comment on whether the party will reflect upon the defeat but said the party will take consolidated efforts to revive its presence in Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 Kadam, who managed to secure her seat, said voters had ignored the NCP’s work. “The BJP did not fight the election on the plank of development but still got a majority. It was quite shocking how people ignored our work,” she added.
 
 
