: My would-be-wife has developed a sexual fantasy. She wants to have sex with a foreigner. In fact, she's so serious about the entire idea that she has even created her profile on social media and befriended many foreigners. I was deeply shattered from inside after knowing that she has exchanged her nude pictures with her Facebook friends. I don't know what to do about the situation. Shall I take her to a psychiatric clinic? I have tried many times to talk her out of the ridiculous idea, telling her it's wrong but she doesn't even bother and continues with her crazy antics! - 
 

 
 : Having a partner develop sexual fantasies, and finding means to act on it can certainly be very difficult. I understand why it has deeply affected and shattered you. 
 
 Attraction is very confounding to understand, everyone has different qualities that they're drawn to. One’s appeal may not always be easy to understand. However, when this attraction reaches a point of being singularly focused on just one quality, it risks turning into a fetish. When a person is attracted to the color of the skin, in this case ‘white’ and the racial stereotypes that have been assigned to a particular race, it becomes racial fetishism. 
 
 While interest in these qualities, like white skin etc, are expected to be taken as a compliment, it's actually the opposite. Because the attraction is based on skin color, not the person inside the skin, it's ultimately just another form of objectification.
 
 However, every relationship has its own boundaries, which both the partners together agree on and decide. There are open   where partners engage in sexual relationships outside of their committed relationships. however it only works when both involved can agree on it. What I am sensing is that there isn’t a common grounds of agreement between both of you. Without which engaging in sexual interactions, even if only on social media, can be viewed as infidelity, and will weaken the foundation of your relationship before it establishes into the institution of marriage.
 
 Understanding where this fetishism came from doesn’t make it easier either. It certainly is a red flag and a cause of concern. Besides, despite several conversations if it has not helped, I would recommend seeking professional counseling for the same. Relationships work on principle that go beyond right and wrong, when two people find a mutually trusting and respecting co-existence. Couples counseling will help establish boundaries for your relationship, identify challenges if any and also help your partner uncover the deeper unconscious layers of the racial obsession or Fetishes, in whatever way it may have shaped up. 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
