CHENNAI: When 15-year-old Maharani and half a dozen other teenage dancers performed at The Music Academy last weekend, it was not just any other concert but a glimpse of the living legacy of the doyen of Bharatanatyam T Balasaraswati.

 The sadir-inspired form of dance (as practiced by the devadasis), of which Balasaraswati was an exponent, is finding a new life in the year of the dancer’s 99th birth anniversary — an institute with at least 170 students, concerts which focus on her long form solo performances and a Tamil translation of her biography, ‘Balasaraswati Her Art And Life’. But the flurry of activity only seems to be concentrated around the dancer’s family, and is limited to the initiatives of her grandson and dancer Aniruddha Knight who is trying to create a legacy of his family’s tradition. 
 
 Training children from the city’s outskirts, most of them from poor backgrounds, at the Balasaraswati Institute of Performing Arts in the city, Knight feels there is an absence of a definitive "legacy of   in the city". "I am focusing on children who have a great inclination to be part of the dance community. They may not be aware of Balasaraswati and her work but we need to begin from somewhere," says Knight, who has been training students at his home-cum-dance institute in Kilpauk for the past three years. Some of the students like Maharani performed during the annual Balasaraswati/Scripps Award last Saturday. 
 
 Despite this initiative, the fact that no well-known dancer in the contemporary times follows her body of work leaves a gaping hole in the lineage for a trailblazer like Balasaraswati. Born in a matrilineal family of musicians, patronised by the Thanjavur court, she began dancing at a time when women in her community preferred music over dance. A follower of the devadasi style of dance, she made the form her own under the tutelage of the eminent Thanjavur school dance teacher, Kundappa Pillai. Better known as the ‘queen of abhinaya’, her austere presentation of Bharatanatyam sparkled with her energy and aura that took over her when she got on stage. After Independence when the patronage shifted largely to the nationalist government institutions, and the Devadasi Act of 1947, sidelined the original keepers of the tradition, Balasaraswati defied all these restrictions.
 
 In the 1960s she introduced Bharatanatyam to the world, performing and teaching extensively at several universities across the US. "She was a goddess on stage," says Aggie Brenneman, a senior student of Balasaraswati, who began taking dance lessons in 1976 in the US. "For her dance was an extension of music and she transformed to create on stage an almost spiritual experience on stage," says Brenneman, now 75, who still performs and teaches students the Balasaraswati style of dance in the US.
 
 It is in fact in the west that Balasaraswati is more than just revered than at home. "Her work is documented, followed and available for people to research, something we don’t have in India," says art critic Sadanand Menon, adding that the library at Jacob’s Willow, Massachusetts, "where America discovered  ," has many video recordings of her performance. “In India, anyone born post the 1980s has no direct exposure to her dance,” he says, explaining why the lack of documentation and an institutional set up to preserve her legacy threatens to obliterate her life’s work.
 
