PANAJI: A   on 10   in the country, conducted by the   (NCW) and the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) has exposed several shortcomings in the state’s Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB), Bambolim.
 
  Titled ‘Addressing concerns of women admitted to psychiatric institutions in India: An in-depth analysis’, the report has brought to light several problems the hospital faces, including a serious problem with ensuring continuous supply of medicines, poor infrastructure and violation of human rights in case of some patients, among others.
  
  While free medicines are provided for one month to all patients, bureaucratic hurdles in procuring medicines continue to exist despite there being separate funding for this. The study suggests simplification in the medicine procuring process to ensure unbroken supply.
  
  The infrastructure came under criticism on many counts, including for the inpatient wards, which the report says are too small, overcrowded and disorganized, with no provisions for either a dining or recreational area, or a library for patients. The building structure itself was found to be poorly built with telltale signs of water seepage visible across all wards.
  
  “Phase out existing wards and build new, state of the art psychiatry open wards,” the study states, adding that closed ward facilities should be limited to forensic and very violent patients. It also condemns the locking up of destitute patients, calling it a violation of fundamental rights.
  
  The toilets and bathrooms that were operable were found to be clean, but inadequate in number, and the water supply erratic, prompting the suggestion for a separate, centralized water tank facility for the hospital.
  
  Moving on to the laboratory facility, upgradation was recommended as, presently, some samples have to be investigated at the   (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, which means results get delayed.
  
  Representatives of both organizations, who had inspected the hospital in January 2016, found a lacunae in the absence of a children’s ward and a recommendation that the government seriously consider a separate children’s ward as well as a peri-natal ward has been made.
  
  Frequent presence of male prisoners in the forensic ward along with their police escorts was also noted. Moreover, it was seen that these male convicts were housed in the forensic ward, which is situated within the female closed ward. This inconveniences female patients and “there is an urgent need to shift the forensic ward out of the female closed ward” the study states. In the same connection, a potential danger to other inmates and staff was pointed out in that police escorts kept their firearms and ammunitions within the closed ward.
  
  The hospital’s dean, Dr   told TOI that the institute has taken the recommendations seriously and has already begun working towards implementing them.
