THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the cold war between the government and IAS officers over harassment by vigilance director   taking new lows, the state is heading towards a policy paralysis. The plan expenditure figures of the state, with just three more months left for the end of the financial year, is abysmally low at 28.47% on December 31. The corresponding figure for December 31, 2015, was 41.5%, despite treasury restrictions. 

 The reluctance of the officers to take any policy initiatives emanates from a fear psychosis of a possible vigilance probe which began ever since Jacob Thomas began his unconventional way of probing complaints against them. As many as seven top bureaucrats whom the TOI spoke to said that it was not the probe that scares them, but the way the probe is conducted by publically humiliating them even before the court found them guilty.
 
 Chief minister   on Monday chiding the officials without being non-committal about a possible solution to their grievances may further push them into taking a very cautious approach which will drastically slow down all policy initiatives, leading to stagnancy.
 
 According to the figures accessed by TOI, of the Rs 24,000 crore plan outlay for 2016-17 for the state, administrative sanction for only Rs 6,831.7 crore (28.47%) has been accorded, and the actual expenditure is even lesser at Rs 5,006.33 crore which is only 20.86%. "This low figure is despite the fact that the government has relaxed the control and increased the upper limits of ways and means expenditure as compared to that of last financial year," said a senior officer.
 
 One of the additional chief secretaries who recently dealt with a file seeking permission for renting a vehicle for official purpose, decided to forward it for permission from the finance department. "Even trivial matters that should have been dealt with at the deputy secretary level is being forwarded to the finance department or law department to play safe. This ends up a huge time-consuming affair that also, in many cases, results in the file getting held up in red tape," sources said.
 
 Another trend seen is officers marking the file either to the minister or back to the section officer, with a note that the matter could possibly invite a vigilance case and it would need a re-examination from the scratch. Sources said that at the best, the plan fund expenditure figures can touch 50% to 55% by the end of March 31, if the present trend continues.
 
 "The latest turn of events have made the matters even worse. Taking a decision has become a matter of life and death for the officers. Who would now want to stick their neck out? Asking a politician to go and fight a case in the court and asking a bureaucrat to do the same thing for some administrative action are two different things. It is gross injustice to unnecessarily register cases against officers and ask them to go and fight the matter in the court," said former chief secretary M Vijayanunni.
 
