NEW DELHI: In an attempt to “generate awareness about India’s culture and heritage”, UP BJP is getting ready to organise a   to assess students’ general knowledge, including current affairs.
 
  Participating students are likely to be asked about Devprayag (  where rivers Bhagirathi and Alaknanda meet), Aravalli (Bharat’s oldest mountain range), Pashupatidev (worshipped in the plains of Sindhu Ghati) and Rig Veda (first recited on the banks of Saraswati).
  
  The preparation material for the exam says Sheikh Abdullah government unfairly targeted Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Aamir Khusro was the Farsi poet who described India as heaven and Madhya Pradesh has the highest forest cover. The August 26 exam, to be organised under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Shatabdi Samaroh Samiti, is targeted at 10-lakh class IX and X students. The preparation material has various sections, including one on the schemes of the Modi government.
  
  UP BJP spokesperson Chandramohan said: “We have focussed on rivers, mountains, leaders and the way our Constitution and society works. For many years, only one narrative has been propelled in schools.”
  
  Some other questions in the material are — which was the region that was constantly attacked by the Arabs (Sindh); how many times did Prithviraj Chauhan defeat Mohammed Ghouri (16); which emperor had poet Kalidasa in his court (Vikramaditya); which Mewar ruler defeated Ibrahim Lodhi (Rana Sangha)?
  
  The students will also be asked about famous quotes by Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and others. The booklet has questions from mythology and Modern India.
  
  For instance, who said: “Ek sui ki nok ke barabar ki zameen nahi dunga (won’t give a needle point of territory; answer is Duryodhana in  )”. The Mahapurush of Bharat, according to the booklet, include Sardar Patel, Swami Vivekananda, KB Hedgewar, Veer Savarkar, Birsa Munda, BR Ambedkar, Sant Kabir, Guru Gobind Singh and Laxmi Bai.
  
  A section focuses on the PM. Some related questions are — who was the PM who connected all the five places of Ambedkar and converted them into a pilgrimage; when was Swachh Bharat started; how many accounts have been opened under the  ?
  
