INDORE: A co-tenant of Mahesh Bairagi, the accused in the Kavita raina murder, on Friday divulged details of his   before a local court here on Friday.

 Tikamchand Singh Devda, who had rented the flat at Musakhedi where Bairagi had allegedly committed the murder, said Bairagi had brought many women to the flat and also named one such woman. However, the defense stated that Tikamchand, under police pressure, was making false statements and that Bairagi’s character was clean. 
 
 Tikamchand also told the court that he worked with the accused for three months, during which he had observed Bairagi speaking to many women other than his wife and that he also kept a knife in one a drawer at the shop claiming it would come in handy in case there was a fight.
 
 Tikamchand had been introduced to Bairagi through a common friend Rahul Nagar. After working with him for three months, Tikamchand joined a factory and later started his own business. It was during this time that he rented a flat at Musakhedi, the rent of which was split between him and the accused.
 
 “Mahesh said that he wanted to use the flat sometimes to rest. He got a key to the flat and had access to it till September 2015. It was then that Tikamchand had asked Bairagi what he was using the flat for, to which the latter replied that he would bring his ‘other’ wife Seema over here. After this, Tikamchand asked him to stop doing it and asked for the keys. When Bairagi denied his request, Tikamchand changed the locks,” Nirmal Mandloi, public prosecutor said.
 
 In December2015, police searched the flat and found weapons in a room. They then sealed off the flat. Tikamchand then started living with his sister who resided nearby.
 
 The murder, according to prosecution theory, had been committed by Bairagi at this flat on August 24, 2015. According to this theory, victim Kavita Raina had resisted Bairagi’s sexual advances. He got angry over this and killed her by hitting her on the head with an iron rod and cut up her body into nine pieces. The statements of witnesses in the case will also be recorded on Saturday before judge AK Paliwal.
 
 
