PATNA: The state government has constituted a nine-member committee of experts to review the usefulness of the   and submit the report in one month. 

 The decision, taken a couple of days back, was welcomed on Sunday by the Chaas-VaasJjeewan Bachao Sangharsh Morcha that has been spearheading the agitation against the project for the last six years. 
 
 In the last few months, the agitation received attention at the state government headquarters. 
 
 The committee, headed by former chief engineer of water resources department Jwala Prasad, has seven-point terms of reference in relation to which the usefulness of the project has to be re-assessed. The Bagmati embankment project, that is around six decades old, comes under the aegis of the state water resources department. 
 
 The other members of the committee are retired director of Ganga Flood Control Commission (GFCC) Sachchida Nand Tiwari, GFCC director L P Singh, head of the geology department at IIT Kanpur, Rajiv Sinha, assistant professor of civil engineering department at IIT Patna,  , senior teacher at National Institute of Technology (Patna) Ramakar Jha, Ganga Mukti Andolan national convener Anil Prakash, water resources expert Dinesh Kumar Mishra and chief engineer (flood control and drainage of water) of water resources department at Muzaffarpur.
 
 The Chaas-Vaas-Jeewan Bachao Morcha members said the names they had submitted to the government have also been included.
 
 The Morcha members, who jointly welcomed the committee, included its state convener Jitendra Yadav, Dhirendra Kumar Jha, Ranjeev, Thakur Devendra Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar, Nawal Kishore, Monazir A Hassan and Sunil Yadav. They expressed concern that no member of the morcha had been included in the review committee.
 
 However, committee chairman has the option to include two other members as special invitees, which opens scope for their inclusion. The morcha members also said the government should withdraw cases filed against several persons for organizing and leading agitations against the project over the last six years. Two of the morcha members are also in jail, they added.
 
 Overjoyed over the formation of the review committee, the morcha is scheduled to hold a Kisan Mahasabha at Kewtasa Chowk, Benibad, on May 10. It would be addressed among others by former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya. 
 
 
