BHUBANESWAR: Death toll due to the derailment of Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Hirakhand Express at Kuneru in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh has gone up to 32 according to latest reports from the ground. The toll may go up significantly.

 So far, the railway officials have identified 18 persons including M Krishna (35), P Srinu (25), B Kamala (50), Gayatri Sahu (14), Dilip Routh (50), T K Mainj (45), SOmu Annama, Vishnu Prasad Sahu, Rajan Nayak (18), Subash Sahu (60), S Renuka, P Poli (35), Joshada Pandit, Ram Prasad Pandit, K Revathi (16), Mondal Balaram, Suba Barati Sahu and Tapan Kumar Pradhan (26). 
 
 Over hundreds of the injured are being rushed to different hospitals at Parvatipuram, Vishakhapatnam and Rayagada. The incident took place around 11 PM when the train was going to Bhubaneswar.
 
 “So far 32 have been reported dead, about 50 injured,” said Poonam Guha, Collector Rayagada, who is supervising the rescue operation from the spot.
 District administrations of both Vizianagaram and Rayagada are taking active part in rescue operations along with police, fire personnel and 
 paramilitary forces, sources said.
 
 While one unit of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Vishakhapatnam is already engaged in the rescue operation, four more NDRF teams from Bhubaneswar are en route to expedite the rescue operation.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed concern over the incident and directed the railway to expedite rescue and relief operations.
 
 “My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones due to the derailment of Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Express. The tragedy is saddening. I pray for a speedy recovery of all those injured due to the train accident,” said the Prime Minister.
 
 He said the railway ministry is monitoring the situation very closely and is working to ensure quick rescue and relief operations.
 
 Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu along with railway board chairman A K Mittal rushing to the accident site. Prabhu also Prabhu announces compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of deceased persons, Rs 25,000 for injured, Rs 50,000 for seriously injured.
 
 Chief minister Naveen Patnaik extended all support from the state government. The Odisha chief minister took stock of the situation in a review meeting here attended by senior officials and DG police.
 
 “Spoke to @sureshpprabhu ji. He assured me of the best treatment for injured & transport fr affected passengers of #HirakhandExpress accident,” tweeted Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan.
 
 “Commissioner of railway safety would carry out a thorough probe into the matter from Monday after completion of the rescue operation,” said Anil Saxena, Indian Railways.
 
 Movement of trains on Rayagada-Vizianagaram route has been disrupted completely. The railway authorities cancelled four trains and diverted routes of eight others express trains.
 
