MUMBAI: Exposing chink in a bank's security system, a 40-year-old city businessman lost Rs 2.49 lakh to a Delhi-based racketeer who accessed his bank account by getting his personal details — address and contact number-changed to the national capital using  .

 The cyber crime cell of Mumbai Police arrested Amit Saran (38) after tracking him down with the help of CCTV footage from shops in Delhi where he tried use the money transferred from the businessman's account on January 18-19. The police are probing who helped Saran, a real estate agent, get the contact details of the bank account holder changed.
 
 The businessman didn't get any alert about the transactions and learnt about the fraud only on January 20 when he checked his account. He immediately lodged a complaint. An investigation team led by deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime) Akhilesh Singh zeroed in on Saran by analysing transfer of funds to an e-wallet and shopping at some shops thereafter using the money . They analysed the CCTV footage from the shops -and tracked him down based on the T-shirts Saran was seen wearing. After locating the shops, the cyber police managed to freeze the funds. Investigators said it took almost 10 days for Saran to get the victim's account details changed at a branch of the bank in Delhi. “He transferred funds to some bank account and several e-wallets. This is a new method of fraud wherein bank customer's bank details are used. More persons are involved in the fraud,“ an investigator said.
 
 Saran used the money pay mobile phone bill and do online shopping. Police have frozen Rs87,000 transferred to e-wal lets. “We suspect the role of bank employees. The customer data seems to have been leaked by someone in the bank as the accused was aware of the money available in the victim's account,“ said the investigator.
 
 Saran has been booked under the IPC sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and under IT Act sections 66 (C) (identity theft) and 66 (D) (cheating by personation). He has been sent to 10 days in police custody.
 
 Former Director General of Police D   said the bank has to tighten its security processes. “The customer has to be compensated by the bank as per RBI guidelines. The hacker could have hacked in to the bank computer or more likely in to the personal mobilecomputer of the customer and got the details. All stakeholders must improve their security systems on a regular basis,“ said Sivanandhan.
 
 Cyber expert Vijay Mukhi said there is no way a customer's phone number can be changed without help from a bank employee. The police must investigate as to how this customer's phone number was changed, he said. “Bank employees get paid to leak customers information and banks use very poor security systems to stop this leak. Banks do not take cyber security seriously and the RBI also does nothing to ensure banks follow security guidelines,“ he said.
 
