KANNAUJ: An old blackboard hung on the branch of the most dense tree in the village, children sitting crosslegged on the mud polished platform facing it, was the scene every morning at villages in Behrin panchayat in Kannauj. Not any longer. Dressed in clean uniforms with bags slung across their shoulders and books opening a new world to them is how many a children are seen now, tucked in school vans that come to fetch them from home.

  in the vicinity has opened an opportunity for village children to study in better public schools just a few kilometers away, leaving only a few of them to go to the village paathshala. This was possible, not only because the distance between the student and the school was cut short but also because school fees is now affordable for parents with compensation they got for their land acquired by the UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority. 
 
 “Barring about seven, all kids from the village studied here at the paathshala paying Rs 50 per month but now six vans ferry them to public schools 6km away in Tirwa,” said Phool Singh, a farmer in  , who has contested the gram pradhan elections twice. 
 
 Class VI student Swati of   in Tirwa is happy that close to 50 children from her village are her school mates. “The paathshala was not bad but this is much better. I got to study about the solar system through charts. There is even a period for arts and craft here,” she said. 
 
 For most farmers whose land got acquired, spending Rs 500 per month including charges for the van is a small price for their children to get better education. Class IX student Nitin who studies in   also vouches for the better standard of education he is getting at the public school. As a surprise to parents, children are now more prompt in going to school, taking fewer days off from studies unlike in the village. 
 
 “Learning to read and write came late to all those who studied at the paathshala but the school has helped them all with it. Everyone likes it more at the school and even teachers are better there,” said Priya, of class VII at Maa Laxmi Bai Saraswati Education Centre in Tirwa.
 
 
