NEW DELHI: “Why are decisions on nursery admissions taken at the eleventh hour creating chaos and confusion?” Delhi high court on Thursday asked the AAP government.

  rapped the directorate of education ( ) for “wasting precious judicial hours” due to issues landing up before the court from decisions taken hastily.
 
 “Every notification has been issued in December end or January. These notifications should have been issued for the next year (2018) so that parents are ready in advance. The moment the issue comes before the court, we have to devote valuable time leaving aside other matters ... Why do you put everyone in jeopardy? Why this chaos and confusion every time? The government should be for the people and not be obstructionist,” the judge observed.
 
 However, Delhi government defended its stand, arguing that the decision was taken with “good intentions.” It also said that the issue should be listed before the court handling education roster, after which Justice Manmohan transferred out the pleas. The issue later came up before  .
 
 Two school associations and some parents have challenged the Delhi government’s latest   norms arguing that it robs them of the fundamental right to send their children to a school of their choice.
 
 The school bodies representing private unaided schools have challenged a condition in the DDA land allotment letter under which admissions have been restricted to the locality where these institutions are situated and argued that allotment was never at concessional rates.
 
 Justice Rao heard the arguments on behalf of the schools and the parents and then listed it for further hearing on Friday.
 
 The schools contended that Delhi government’s decision has taken away their autonomy to admit students, and this could scare away entrepreneurs who set up these private unaided schools in the city. The Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools and Forum for Promotion of Quality Education, who moved the court, argued that the neighbourhood restriction was “not reasonable”.
 
 They said that under the Right to Education Act of 2009, 25% of the seats were reserved in private unaided schools for children belonging to poorer sections of society and disadvantaged groups who lived in the neighbourhood. It said that ever since this reservation under the Act has come into force, it “supersedes and subsumes within it” all prior contractual and other agreements, including the DDA allotment letter.
 
 The parents said that while they were not concerned with the terms of the allotment letter, they were opposed to Delhi government’s decision as it restricted their choice or right to decide where to send their children to study. “This choice or right cannot be restricted by an executive order,” they said.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi government said that by a circular dated January 9, they have extended that last date for submission of applications to January 31 from January 23. The admission process had started on January 2.
 
 
