NAGPUR:   (NDMCPL) in association with   (VIA),   and   have successfully implemented India’s first   (CFC) for dal mill cluster whose inauguration will be done by the hands of union minister Nitin Gadkari along with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis at NDMCPL CFC site, Mahalgaon on May 28 at 10am.

 Later during the day, a two day ‘dal & Rice Tech Expo 2017’ will be launched at Parampara Lawn & Banquet, Small factory area, Wardhaman Nagar where reputed global and leading milling machine suppliers, logistic companies, banks, service providers will be participating. 
 
 “The strategy of cluster development is essential as it will increase the efficiency and profit by leaps and bounds. It will be beneficial for all the sectors involved in market,” said President of VIA, Atul Pande in a press conference at VIA’s Udyog Bhavan on Sunday. 
 
 Cluster is a centralized facility where all steps like cleaning, drying, milling, packaging of products can be done in a common arena with the use of high-tech equipments which are otherwise not affordable at individual level, explained managing director NDMCPL, Manohar Bhojwani. He added, “When we bring the farmers and the millers under an umbrella, we get better ideas for growth and solutions for increased productivity. We may utilize the by-products for making cookies rich protein and dietary fibre which would give a good price for raw materials and boost employment rate too.”
 
 According to Arun Khobragde, Chairman Food Processing Cell VIA, a separate policy for food and processing is the need for the hour. He said, “Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telengana adapted the policy and experience rise in profits.”
 
 Around 70 stalls will be set up in the expo where machines with latest technologies will be displayed and solar dryer will be striking feature which aims to reduce energy consumption and flag off a new trend in the region. All queries of entrepreneurs, farmers and millers will be resolved by a team of professionals working for the awareness of CFC. 
 
