Instead of five interlaced circles, this ‘Olympic’ logo looks more like a take on Lamborghini’s raging bull. Emblazoned on “pure gold” trophy worth Rs 30 lakh, it shows a racing bull with a tiny cart. Around the rustic stadium are enlarged photos of white bulls charging wildly, their turban-sporting jockeys hanging on. There’s just one tiny problem at the ongoing Kila Raipur Sports Festival — there are no real bulls here.

 Every winter, Kila Raipur, a village around 20km from Ludhiana, hosts a sports festival that’s come to be known as the ‘Rural Olympics’. But ever since the   banned bovines from any sort of sporting activity in May 2014, the dry-fruit-fed speedsters — once the centrepieces of this sporting gala — have been ploughing fields and chewing on the fact that horses now serve as their stunt doubles and take home their share of the prize money.
 
  
  
 
 
 On Friday, the first day of the 81st edition of the event at Kila Raipur — a Ludhiana village still warm from selfies with Aamir and Salman who shot films here — it was clear what happens when a star leaves the ecosystem.
 
 Instead of lakhs of villagers crammed into the 40,000-seater Grewal stadium, there were only a smattering of onlookers. This, despite the usual roster of colourful contests — a few men held up tractor tyres to win Rs 1,000, a beefy gym owner wearing a Bryan Adams vest lifted dumbells to warn against drug use, and in the dog race, 20-odd imported greyhounds chased a dead rabbit stuffed with cotton down a 400m course.
 
  
  
 
 
 In a corner, 60-year-old Charanjeet Singh and his bearded mates, all dressed in pathani suits and festive mojris, cheered like kids for these hounds. Till three years ago, these former bullock-cart jockeys were the ones racing down the same course in a cart drawn by two dust-raising Nagori bulls. “At that time, you could never find a place to sit,” said Charanjeet Singh of Bhaini Rora village, pointing to the empty seats.
 
  
  
 
 
 This year, in the wake of   passing an ordinance to allow the bull-taming sport of jallikattu, and the Karnataka assembly passing an amendment bill to legalise kambala, the state’s traditional annual buffalo race, the Grewal Sports Association (GSA) — which organises festival — hoped to revive its showpiece event.
 
  
  
 
 
 “It is not only our traditional sport but also a poor man’s chief source of entertainment,” said GSA’s Jagbir Grewal, adding that the festival started in 1933 as a small annual recreational meet for farmers before it bloated into a tourist magnet. The sight of close to 150 jockeys driving pairs of white-humped bulls down a track brought farmers in droves. But the pleas of the committee members — most of whom are former hockey players — fell on deaf ears.
 
  
  
 
 
 “The governor has granted us a meeting but sadly, that’s on the day after the event ends,” said Jagga Singh Grewal, secretary of GSA.
 
 The SC order — a response to a petition filed by the government’s Animal Welfare Board — said bulls were being “forced to perform, inflicting pain and suffering” in sporting events, violating laws relating to the prevention of cruelty to animals. But jockeys and organisers insist that the bulls were treated well.
 
  
  
 
 
 Even as the greyhounds were receiving a steady feed of honey, Glucon D and water at one end of the stadium, jockeys recalled that the pre-race diet for bullocks was rich. “We fed them cashews, almonds, taramira mustard and fruit for energy,” said Maggar Singh, adding that preparations would begin a month in advance.
 
  
  
 
 
 “After the race, four men would gently massage each bull,” said Singh.
 
 If the ban isn’t revoked, it might kill the breed, feared jockeys, pointing out that the Nagori tribe of Rajasthan that sells the bulls had lost its prime market: Punjab. The horse races, introduced to substitute bullock cart races, are not as popular. “They bring 60% of the money that the bulls used to,” said Jagbir Grewal.
 
 As she stretched her legs apart on a banner and kissed the ground, a slim, fully-clad athlete from   named Ritu turned heads. One of the few women on the ground, Ritu said she was there for the prize money that would take care of her vegetarian diet that costs Rs 15,000 a month. She explained away the skewed gender ratio at the festival with: “Local women don’t need to pursue sports as many of them are born privileged.”
 
 But the more telling revelation came from bullock cart jockey Charanjeet Singh. He sold his bulls two years ago. “Now, I’m planning to concentrate on greyhounds,” he said.
 
