NEW DELHI: BJP president Amit Shah latched onto Rahul Gandhi’s recent remarks on political dynasties, saying that succession based on family ties is part of   culture of politics which ran counter to public opinion that valued merit and performance.

 
 
 In his inaugural speech at the BJP national executive meet on Monday, Shah cited the example of individuals from modest backgrounds holding top constitutional positions like President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President   and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Shah said the country believes in politics of performance and   should not attempt to impose his party’s culture of dynasty on the country. Shah also expressed anguish at the political violence in Kerala and West Bengal where, he said, BJP cadres and supporters have been at the receiving end. He announced an extensive fortnight-long outreach campaign in Kerala next month.
 
 He made a detailed reference to the intolerance debate often raised by the opposition and activists against the government. “There is no space for intolerance in democracy and selective intolerance is not healthy for democracy either. If there is no parity on raising the issue of intolerance, then people have no right to discuss it,” Shah said, in reference to the BJP argument that its critics, particularly the Left, do not refer to their acts of violence and ideological intolerance.
 
 In the last executive meet before the crucial Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh polls, Shah lashed out at the Congress vice president as he said, “Dynastic succession is in the nature of Congress ... but not of India. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, we have replaced politics of appeasement, caste and dynasty with politics of performance.”
 
 Reacting to Rahul’s recent remarks during his US trip where he questioned performance of the Modi government, the BJP chief said, “Rahul Ji! you will be tired of counting contributions of the Modi government... In past three years, our biggest contribution to the country is that a corruption-free, transparent government has replaced the UPA government involved in scams worth Rs 12-lakh crore.”
 
 “Kerala and West Bengal hold the dubious distinction of witnessing maximum violations of democratic norms. We don’t indulge in violence but our party will respond through democratic means,” said Shah, cautioning the state governments that BJP cadres will not be intimidated by the violence unleashed on them.
 
 Referring to the OBC bill stuck in the Rajya Sabha after Congress sought major changes, Shah accused Congress of being anti-OBC. “Having blocked the passage of bill granting constitutional status to the OBC Commission, Congress has once proved it has no respect for the OBCs. However, BJP is firm and will ensure constitutional status to the OBC Commission,” the BJP chief said.
 
