They grab every opportunity they get to indulge their wanderlust — away from long working hours, erratic schedules and the cameras that follow them everywhere. Here are some special moments captured on camera by some small-screen stars during their recent jaunts abroad and in India. Enjoy...

 
 
 
  
  
 This picture was clicked by the actress’ beau Raj Singh Arora when they were vacaying in the US recently. “Raj clicked this while I was just lying around the lake as I was tired after walking the Museum Mile. It may seem as if I am posing, but honestly, I was only chilling for a bit,” said Pooja.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Rubina was recently in Bali on a leisure trip. This picture was clicked outside a temple. “I took the picture to capture the fact that Balinese people are God-fearing and at the same time, welcoming. The open door signifies how warm and friendly they are, ready to embrace the world,” she said. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 She gifted herself a four-day Shimla trip this birthday. She said, “Rather than spending big on birthday bashes, I have decided to plan a trip on my big day. It’s extremely rejuvenating.”
 
 
 
  
  
 The actor took a day from work to see London, while shooting there recently. “It has been my favourite city and I visit it frequently. I like how the NRI follow their tradition to a fault and make you feel one of their own. South Hall is mini India,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 The actress went to Europe to spend some quality time with her husband Nitesh Singh. She said,“This statue appealed to me because of its bronze look. It’s a favourite picture as it’s rare to spot the statue of a sewer worker resting atop a manhole.”
 
 
 
  
  
 On a trip to Thailand recently, the actor spotted a telephone booth, which caught his fancy. “A public telephone booth is such a rare sight in today’s day and age. It made me nostalgic and so, I decided to pose,” said Gunjan. 
 
 
 
  
  
 A self-confessed waterbaby, the actor indulged in paragliding during a recent trip to Langkawi. He told us, “I clicked beautiful pictures with water in the background and took a short cruise as well.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 She made the most of her visit to her brother in Australia. “I took a few days off with my mother. I needed this break to rejuvenate myself before getting back to work,” she said.
 
 
  
  
 The actress went to London on a short vacay with her family. “Since the sight of sea perks me up, so I chose to pose in front of it. The light was good and the water clean and blue, so the picture turned out to be fantastic. The smile on my face also created magic,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 
 This picture was taken by Aakanksha’s husband Kunal Sain while she was busy admiring the city’s skyline from the rooftop pool of their hotel in Singapore. She said, “It was so quiet.. this peace is what I needed for a while. It just describes my state of mind, which is peaceful.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 The choreographer had heard a lot about the wall of Love Padlocks in Germany and had to see it for herself. She said, “It’s amazing that people actually believe in it. I did too, for a second. It had a positive vibe and made me want to fall in love. I wanted to put a lock, but I didn’t eventually. I just placed my hands on the cold metal bridge of love and prayed that I’ll find a companion who would love me for eternity.”
 
 
 
