 Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed that a notice be issued to Srinet Kothwale, then member secretary of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), in connection with alleged perjury related to a false statement in the matter of demolition of shacks in Salcete and Canacona. While the tribunal directed that the case be listed on March 10, 2017, it also asked the GCZMA to furnish all records with details of the demolition of shacks, as alleged in the application filed by Aleixo Arnolfo Pereira. The bench also directed Kothwale to explain why action should not be taken against him for making a false statement regarding demolition of shacks.  The former GCZMA member secretary had sworn on oath in an affidavit dated December 26, 2016, that the shacks had been demolished. But the applicant alleged that complete demolition had not been executed in both, the Salcete and Canacona talukas. Based on his affidavit, advocate general S D Lotlikar was prompted to make a false statement before us, the bench noted. The whole case pertains to an earlier application filed by Pereira, which was disposed of on December 17, 2014. He had alleged that many shacks that were erected in CRZ areas of Goa did not have the necessary GCZMA permissions under the CRZ Notification, a matter that the NGT had asked to regulate. Pereira had challenged the permissions, granted by the tourism department and others, allowing temporary beach shacks and huts in private properties around Majorda and Utorda.  Pereira had also prayed for suspension of permissions granted by the tourism department to temporary shacks and temporary huts in private properties in CRZ areas under the state’s shack policy. The approvals were in contravention of the CRZ Notification 2011, as these rules empower only the GCZMA to regulate permissible activities in CRZ areas and not the tourism department, the applicant had stated. The GCZMA is responsible for enforcement of CRZ rules and ensures protection of the state’s coastal environment, but it hadn’t properly examined and appraised the proposals on various grounds, Pereira had alleged. In a landmark order regarding this application, the bench had directed the GCZMA to immediately carry out a survey to tentatively identify sand dunes present in the villages within CRZ-I zones in coastal areas and locate them on a map. Pereira had also stated that inspection of sites at Canacona in South Goa was pending and that he agreed to attend the inspection.