KOLKATA: If the   approves of and introduces a  , proposed by  , knowledge of road rules will play a key role in deciding whether someone is qualified to drive on city roads.

 Citing poor driving habits as one of the major factors behind the increasing number of road accidents, the transport department had sought expertise from IIT-Kharagpur to curb road tragedies due to human error.
 
 “We have received the proposals and accepted them,“ said state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari.
 
 In his report to the transport department, professor Bhargav Maitra, who led the team of IIT-Kharagpur experts, proposed a two-tier driving licence test -a knowledge-based online test and a skill test -to obtain a learner's licence.The driver will be allowed to take the skill test only if they get the cut-off score in the online examination.
 
 “In Bengal, there are around 500 driving schools. The drivers are accountable for more than 70% road accidents. Though they do not lack skills, the deficiency lies in the knowledge part,“ said Maitra.
 
 The government wanted the online knowledge exam to be an elaborate one and cover all aspects related to safe driving. In order to reduce the burden on the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs), the proposal tasked them with concentrating solely on the skill test and made the knowledge assessment a computerized one. “Based on the syllabus, trainers will be educated and will, in turn, teach the budding drivers. The government wants to ensure there is a fool-proof system in place. Aspirants will have to apply online for a licence, upload documents, fill up the requisite details and book a slot according to their convenience. On the specified date and time, the examinee should reach a pre-decided computerized centre and take the test,“ explained Maitra.
 
 This will ease the driving licence process and also ensure an increased revenue for the state.
 
 IIT-Kharagpur has also prepared a 200-page book which is likely to be distributed to all the government-approved driving schools. The book covers 10 aspects of driving -knowing roads, traffic signs, road markings, safe dri ving rules and tips, driving in complex and sensitive environments, vulnerable road users, accident emergencies, first-aid, legal aspects and attitude and alertness.
 
 “If the state approves of the recommendations, affiliated driving schools sending applicants for licences will have to take classes of about 20 hours combining the topics from the book,“ said a source.
 
 Maitra pointed out that the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, don't have any provision to make it compulsory for drivers to be trained by the schools before applying for a learner's licence. “It is only for the commercial and heavy vehicle drivers that training from driving schools are a must. We want to propose to the government framing our own rules to bring a change,“ Maitra added.
 
