LUCKNOW: Tightening the noose around controversial UP minister  , police on Tuesday detained his sons for questioning for clues regarding the whereabouts of their absconding father. 

 Police were also set to move court on Wednesday to seek permission to attach his properties.
 
 Apart from detaining his two sons, Anil and Anurag, police have arrested three aides to the minister, Rupeshwar, Vikas Verma and Amrendra Singh. Earlier, police had arrested Ashok Tiwari and Ashish Shukla from Jewar, on the Yamuna Expressway, on March 7. All the arrested associates of Prajapati have been named as co-accused in the case.
 
 Though the minister’s sons reportedly told the police they had not been in touch with Prajapati since February 27, sources said the two had divulged the names of some contacts expected to be in touch with the minister and efforts were being made to track them. “We have taken their call details and are trying to zero in on suspected locations, some of which are in other states,” a senior police officer associated with the probe said.
 
 Police have been on the lookout for the minister since an FIR was lodged against him and six others by a woman accusing them of gang-rape and sexually assaulting her minor daughter. The FIR was lodged on the directions of the Supreme Court on February 18, in the thick of campaigning for the UP elections. Prajapati had contested from Amethi seat as an SP candidate but lost to the BJP’s Garima Sinh.
 
 While SP chief and outgoing chief minister   saw the FIR against his minister as politically motivated, the BJP attacked the SP government in UP for sheltering him. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah used the Prajapati case to back their charge of lawlessness in the state. In one campaign speech Shah had announced Prajapati would be jailed once a BJP government was in place in UP. “Agar pataal mein bhi chhup jayega to wahan se nikal kar jail mein dalenge” Shah had said.
 
 Prajapati had posed for news cameras while leaving the polling station after voting on February 27; he has been “missing” since, according to the police. Police have intensified their search for the absconding minister but have failed to lay their hands on him as yet.
 
