JAIPUR: Despite   invoking   (RESMA) to prevent   from going on long mass leaves, the in-service government doctors went on   on Monday leaving patients to suffer. Agitating doctors will resume duties on Tuesday.

 Healthcare facilities remained affected at primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals. There are more than 9,000 in-service government doctors posted in rural areas and district hospitals.
 
 At a time, when hospitals are overcrowded with patients due to rise in number of patients suffering from seasonal diseases and swine flu, mass leave of doctors has added to the patients’ woes.
 
 However, All Rajasthan In-Service Doctors Association (ARISDA) pointed out that they never wanted to go on mass leave but they were forced to do so by the government as it is not listening to their genuine demands.
 
 “On August 29, the state government sought 15 days to act on our demand. Now more than 15 days have passed, nothing has been done on our demands,” said Dr Ajay Chaudhary, president ARISDA.
 
 They are demanding increase in rural allowance, hazardous services allowance, government hospitals should function in one shift, doctors should not come under Panchayati Raj in rural areas are among 33 demanded of in-service doctors. “For the past six years, our demands are pending. We are now left with no other option except to protest,” said, Dr Rakesh Heerwat, organising secretary, ARISDA.
 
 Dr Heerawat said that doctors should get Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) on time, which they are not getting in its true spirit. “We had an agreement in 2011 with the government on DACP. But, the government has not made any amendment in the rules despite of its agreement. We have 422 such doctors, who are seniors but they are getting salaries lesser than their junior doctors. It is discrepancy in salaries, which should be sorted out,” Dr Heerawat said.
 
 He demanded that government should form a sub-ministerial committee, like it was formed in 2011 for addressing their demands.
 
 However, government claimed that they are constantly listening to doctors’ demands. Health minister Kalicharan Saraf said that they are organising meetings with doctors time to time and taking necessary steps on their demands.
 
 Saraf said that doctors are demanding that hospitals should function in one shift. Addressing this demand, the health department has formed a committee under additional mission director (National Health Mission) BL Kothari. Appropriate action will be taken on the basis of report that will be submitted by the committee.
 
 He said that as far as amendment in rules of DACP is concerned, recommendations have already been sent to the Governor.
 
 Saraf said that proposals for funds have already been sent to finance department in demands related to removing capping of 18% on Rs8700 grade pay, giving equal allowances to dentists while in probation, increasing age limit for appearing in pre-PG and also they have sent proposal for funds for other pending allowance.
 
 
