NEW DELHI: Even as students of Jamia Millia Islamia and members of the Islamic Students' Organisation joined their counterparts from Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University in a march for freedom of speech on DU's north campus on Tuesday, Delhi BJP vice-president   alleged that she was stopped from speaking at an event on women's empowerment at Jamia the same day.

 The Jamia administration, however, said the event had nothing to do with the university. Ilmi, however, alleged that the V-C's office pressured the organisers to keep her away because she was a BJP member. Ilmi and BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi were originally invited to speak on `Social Relevance of Triple Talaq ­ Discrimination or Empowerment' on February 16. The talk was organised by Forum for Awareness of National Security, an RSS-affiliated body. Later, the event was postponed to February 28 and the theme changed to `Muslim Women's Empowerment: Issues and Challenges'. I am told that there was a crowd outside the seminar hall to stop me,“ Ilmi claimed on Wednesday. “I got calls from people in Jamia asking me not to come. They said my presence would vitiate the atmosphere.“
 
 The BJP leader added, “I'm an alumna of this university, but was stopped because I have joined BJP.“ She said this exposed the hypocrisy of the “pseudo-secular leftist liberal“ who wanted to “propagate just one narrative“. Defending the university, Saima Saeed, honorary deputy media coordinator of Jamia, told TOI that the event was organised by a private entity and the university had nothing to do with it. “Jamia honours and welcomes all people to the campus.“
 
 However, Shailesh Vats, programme convenor and member of FANS, insisted that the decision to drop Ilmi as a speaker and change the topic of the discussion was taken following pressure from the university authorities. “The administration was not comfortable with the topic of triple talaq or with certain speakers at the event,“ said Vats.
 
 But students countered these claims. “We have supported people from RSS and BJP on our campus. We even have a Deen Dayal Upadhyay Centre here. Why would we protest now?“ asked Sahil Ahmed, a member of the Jamia Students Forum (JSF).
 
 Some others also contradicted Rahul Tiwary, a public administration student at Jamia and a FANS member who alleged that around eight miscreants kept on disturbing the proceedings, often talking loudly and questioning the speakers. Suhail Ahmed, an engineering student who attended the event, claimed “nothing of the sort happened“.
 
 He said, “ A Jamia alumnus wanted to speak and we asked her to do so after the official talks were over. She spoke and negated the arguments of some of the speakers.“ On the claims that there were objections to a ceremonial lamp being lit, Suhail Ahmed said that the students indeed demurred, but “only because there was no reading of the kirat or ayat of the Quran and the singing of the tarana, which are the norms at Jamia“.
 
 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “The denial of permission to hold a seminar on triple talaq is in itself a matter of denial of freedom of expression and it must be established under whose pressure university authorities denied the permission.“
 
