RANCHI:   turned into a carnival space on Wednesday. A riot of colours and buzz of activities greeted the delegates for the global investors' summit as they ‘touched down’ in the morning. The terminal was decked out with banners, cut-outs and posters of   and wrapped around with a huge team of police and paramilitary forces to provide security cover. 

 Dressed in colourful attires tribal folk artists welcomed each guest with beats of drums and traditional dance. Other fliers who alighted at the airport stopped and craned their necks to sample the fanfare that was set up to accord a warm welcome to the guests. A long queue of sedans lined up along the airport’s exit to take the delegates to their hotels. 
 
 For the tribal artists the performance was a rather long one as wait elongated for the delegates to arrive. Lined up along the exit corridor the artists broke into dance enthusiastically amidst drum beats at the mere nod of officials who were ushering delegates. This often resulted in false alarms too like a cop or an official waving at them would set the folk artists off on their performance. At times when the wait for the guests prolonged inordinately, the beats would die down. 
 
 Many of the delegates basked in the grand welcome accorded to them and quite like the mediapersons and lensmen the guests too held out their smart phones video-recording the colourful welcome dance and the large gathering. 
 
 A huge crowd swelled at the VIP exit as passersby stopped and stood on their toes to catch a glimpse of the foreign delegates who were accorded a traditional welcome as they trooped out amidst beat of drums and tribal dance. Police officials were kept on their toes providing security cover to the valued guests and keeping eager people at bay. The cops were hard-pressed trying to sieve curious passersby who mingled among the motley gathering of media persons to get a clear view of the goings on.
 
 A delegate of the five-member Russian team that reached the airport close to 1 pm stopped to interact with media persons. Before getting into the car waiting for him he said: “We are here to share our expertise in smart city with Ranchi, Jharkhand.” 
 
 An overzealous cop who was in-charge of providing a safe passage to the delegates directed his junior officials and asked them to take their positions. He was quick to shoot a string of instructions to media persons: “We have to provide a very organized image to the visitors. Please do not thrust your microphones at them they will talk to you if they wish.”
 
