PATNA: Senior BJP functionary and former deputy CM   on Friday levelled fresh allegation against RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family, claiming that his son   got a petrol pump fraudulently allotted during UPA-II government at the Centre in 2011. Tej is Bihar’s health minister.
 
  Modi told newsmen that Tej did not have the 43 decimals of land, which he had mentioned while applying to the Ministry of Petroleum for the petrol pump. He alleged that the ministry officials must have connived with Tej as he did not have the land then for the petrol pump, which is now under construction.
  
  Modi said it was in 2012 when beer manufacturing baron Amit Katyal, who was the managing director of the  , leased out around 136 decimal land for setting up a petrol pump to Tej Pratap and his younger brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is now Bihar’s deputy CM.
  
  A K Infosystems Pvt Ltd, which Modi alleged is a shell company of Lalu’s clan, was incorporated on September 28, 2006 and its registered address is C-654, New Friends Colony, New Delhi.
  
  Modi also alleged that businessman Om Prakash Katyal and his son Amit set up a beer brewery firm at Bihta as   when Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi was the Bihar chief minister (2000-2005). The Katyals floated the firm A K Infosystems Pvt Ltd, on September 28, 2006, in which Rabri, Tejashwi, Tej Pratap and Lalu’s daughter Chanda Yadav were appointed additional directors on June 19, 2014. Modi claimed Tejashwi and Tej Pratap quit the firm a day after they won the 2015 assembly elections.
  
  With regard to the land leased out for setting up the petrol pump, Modi said, “If the application for setting up the petrol pump was made by Tej Pratap, why did A K Infosystems gave 136 decimals of land to Tejashwi for setting up petrol pump at the same place. Besides, the fundamental question here is that on what grounds the application for petrol pump was sanctioned, when Tej Pratap did not even have land for the same.”
  
  Modi said he would request Union minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan to get a probe conducted, claiming that he has documentary proof in support of his allegations.
  
  For the last one month, the leader of opposition in legislative council has been levelling serious allegations against Lalu’s family with regard to acquiring benami properties.
  
  The BJP is to organize statewide dharnas on May 17 on the issue of benami properties of Lalu family and the recent power tariff hike by the state government.
