NAGPUR: City   chief   has introduced a multi-layered service excellence delivery system at the police station level. Citizens can now look forward to a better policing experience. The pilot project of the scheme has already kick-started in one police station each in every zone. The police stations selected for the pilot project are Sonegaon (Zone-I), Sitabuldi (zone-II), Kotwali (Zone III), Ajni (Zone IV) and Koradi (Zone-V).

 The service excellence concept, aimed at upgrading policing at grass roots level, has a three-dimensional functional mode, comprising infrastructural development, process or procedural revamping module and enhancement of communication skills. The main objective of this is to ensure that the citizens, walking into the police station, are served in a better manner. 
 
 Various unit in-charges of state police have been engaged in efforts to upgrade service delivery at the police station level as envisioned by state chief minister  , who is also holding the charge of home minister. Fadnavis has been repeatedly insisting on improving the quality of service delivery at the grass root absent in the police system. The work is already at an advanced stage. 
 
 Venkatesh, credited for introduction of e-challan for traffic violation, said, “The front offices of the police station or the station houses are being renovated to make them more citizen friendly. The ambience would be more comfortable for a complainant visiting the police station and there would be a systematic manner in the way the police station personnel will communicate,” he said, adding, “Police would operate on a multiple communication levels, reacting differently to various situations while dealing with a complainant.” 
 
 Explaining further, Venkatesh said the Zonal DCPs are the key supervising officers in the scheme and they will oversee the implementation and coordination of the programme. “The concerned government departments like   have been mobilized too for their participations in the infrastructural aspects,” said the top cop. 
 
 CITIZEN-FRIENDLY POLICING
 
 Better dissemination of information; for example, names of senior officers and their contact numbers will be exhibited at seating lounges of the police station
 
 Police stations to be revamped and made more comfortable for complainants
 
 Better behaved cops with polished manners
 
