PUNE: The stench of urine, broken toilet doors, grimy window panes and no drinking water. These are a but a few things audiences can look forward to when they come to watch plays at the   in Kothrud.

 The situation is no different for the artistes who perform here. A video posted by actor   that shows a broken green room door has gone viral, highlighting the dilapidated state of the auditorium. 
 
 “I am not even angry anymore; just helpless,” said Raghavan, who recently performed at the auditorium during a production his play, ‘Ek shoonya teen’. “The toilet doors too do not close. And open toilets means putting up with the overwhelming stench of urine throughout the performance,” Raghavan added.
 
 Swanandi Tikekar, who was a part of the play, found the women’s washroom dirty and stinking. “The workers there do not take their jobs seriously. They kept talking loudly backstage when the play was in progress,” Tilekar said. 
 
 She however said the performers too have a responsibility to keep the place clean, not just the authorities. 
 
 Raghavan, who is an eminent name among the Hindi film fraternity, said that it is not need but love for the state that brings actors to the theatre. “But with such shabby treatment, it would be no surprise if artistes refuse to perform,” Raghavan said, adding, “All we expect is proper parking, clean theatre and respect for artistes,” he said.
 
 Several members of the theatre-going public who had visited the auditorium were quick to comment on Raghavan’s video. They complained of poorly — or not even — lit gents’ toilets and waterlogged floors among other things. 
 
 Maya Ganesh, who recently visited the auditorium, complained of a lack of drinking water and the unavailability of ushers. “Though eatables aren’t allowed inside, members of the audience still brought food inside. When the show started, the sound was not great. After sometime, we felt hot, and bothered by mosquitoes because the doors were kept open despite it being an AC hall,” she said.
 
 Sunil Mahajan, president of the Pune chapter of Akhil Bharatiya Natya Parishad, said, “We tried several times to change things in that auditorium but to no avail. It needs to be cleaned by good quality cleaning agents after every show. The management also needs to keep a check whether the auditorium is well maintained. Unfortunately, none of this is happening.”
 
 Prakash Amarale, the administrative officer of the auditorium, said, “The theatre is a bit unclean since we lack the necessary manpower. We still try our best to keep it clean. We are also getting a tender approved to change the doors and improve the toilets, but since it is a slow process.” 
 
