THANE: Thane police crime branch has seized 760kg of suspected contraband   worth Rs 19 crore, including psychotropic  , from the Ambernath   of a   company. Four men have been arrested in the case, including two employees.

 On January 8, TOI had reported that 6kg of alprazolam worth Rs 15 lakh was seized in Thane from Lavkush Gupta (26) and Amit Godbole (32). 
 
 Param Bir Singh, Thane police commissioner, told mediapersons on Monday that the duo led cops to the   unit of Centaur Pharmaceuticals. Crime branch sleuths raided the unit along with FDA officials and seized the drugs that were stored in a hidden room, which was not mentioned in the unit’s building layout plan. Subsequently, they arrested Basavaraj Bhandari (27) and Anil Kanta Rajbhar (25), both of whom are employed in the Ambernath unit’s production department. 
 
 The police chief said a total of 754kg of psychotropic and controlled drugs was seized. The stock was kept in the secret room in high density polyethylene drums. Singh said the drums were found half-filled, which indicates that a portion of the stock may have been disposed of.
 
 Singh added that other than 6kg of alprazolman seized from Thane the previous week, another 47kg of the   was found in the Ambernath unit. Singh said cops are investigating the involvement, if any, of senior employees in the racket. Some 700kg of 27 other varieties of drugs seized during the raid is in the process of being identified, said police officials. 
 
 “We are now investigating, with the FDA’s help, whether the company had followed proper procedures in the manufacture and storage of these materials,” Singh told TOI. “We are going through the company’s stock registers to find out whether there were any lapses or violations by the staff or management,” he added. “We are carrying out a systematic probe into the entire activity and operations,” said Parag Manere, deputy commissioner of police (crime).
 
 This case comes close on the heels of the April 2016 Rs 2,000 crore haul of ephedrine, a controlled drug, involving the Solapur unit premises of Avon Life Sciences.
 
 
