KANPUR: The fate of over 40 students of a government basic school in   of Malasa block in Kanpur Dehat disrict hangs in balance as village influentials had allegedly blocked the   by raising a concrete wall. 

 The students have stopped coming to the school while the school staff, is forced to sit in open. The strength of students, which was 40, has now been reduced to almost zero. 
 
 "It's pity that access to school meant for rural children and their right to education, is being denied. No action has been taken against inlfuentials who have blocked the passage by raising a concrete wall," alleged school staff and parents.
 
 The students of class I to V in the school have been missing their classes since the past two months, claimed head-mistress Prachi Prabha. 
 
 "Thick vegetation has almost covered up a major patch of the school and now it bears a deserted look. Several complaints have been made to the authorities but to no avail," headmistress said further. 
 
 The locals of Hajipur too alleged that the route which leads to the school entrance has been taken over by the influentials. They said that numerous complaints were sent to the authorities concerned but in vain.
 
 "There is hardly any attendance of students from Hajipur and nearby villages. Owing to regular threat from influentials, the children have avoided going to school. Many parents, too tried to confront influentials, but the latter asked them not to interfere in their matter." Earlier, the strength of the students in the school was 40, which has now come down to 0," they added
 
 The musclemen have even dispersed thorny plants in an around the school, so that none can get easy access to school.
 
 Netram, a villager, said, "Why are district authorities silent and not initiating action against the influential persons."
 
 Another villager recalled with horror, "They threatened us with dire consequences and claimed that the passage which leads to the school entrance belongs to them."
 
 Krishna Kumar Gupta,   and acting district magistrate, said, "Stringent action would be initiated against those trying to block the school entrance. The matter is in my knowledge and after a thorough investigation, a complaint will be filed in this regard with the police, and the guilty will be booked as per the law."
 
 
