MELBOURNE: A sobbing   -art and heart in pink shoes -embraced his 18th Grand Slam singles title with the unbridled passion of a five-year-old. He came into the tournament with nothing to lose, chasing the impossible dream that became his on a brilliantly lit Melbourne ne night. The 35-year-old in his 100th   outing won 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 in 3 hours and 38 minutes against Spain's  , taking home $3,700,000.

 "I'm out of words,"   said, holding the trophy presented to him by  , the man he idolises and after who the stadium is named after. "I want to congratulate Rafa on an amazing comeback. I don't think either of us believed we would be here when we saw each other at his academy four five months ago. Keep playing, Rafa please, tennis needs you. Keep doing everything you do."
 
 "Roger deserved to win more than me today," the 30-year-old Nadal said. "I worked very hard to be here. I'll keep trying, keep fighting through the whole season. I hope to come back here. I'll let Roger keep the trophy (this time) and see you next year..."
 
 The Federer versus Nadal is as much a rivalry as it is a bond. Rafa called it a contrast of styles and personalities that transcends the sport. Federer said he was the Spaniard's No.1 fan. It is the story of brothers, where the more physically gifted is the standard, setting the bar and the mentally resolute, flying over, reaching above. Neither player asks questions, both of them make statements, one with flair and flourish and the other all grit and gumption. The galleries worship at the altar of one and adore the other, shouts of 'Vamos Rafa!' then were quickly drowned out by 'Let's go Roger, let's go!' chant that has become the anthem of fans.
 
 Federer was off the blocks quickly. He played sharp and broke the ninth early , sending out the first signs that he wasn't in a mood for that back-and-forth thing his opponent so enjoys.  , not to be outdone, was playing to a plan, keeping Federer waiting, going through his motions -endless routines, testing his patience. Then in the second game, on his second breakpoint opportunity of the game and match, Nadal's forehand broke down Federer's with a wicked repetition drill. The Swiss master had two chances to pull back in the following game, only Rafa couldn't be put away. The lead quickly became 4-0. Federer broke Nadal in the fifth game to get on to the scoreboard in the second set, but couldn't stop the Mallorcan from levelling sets.
 
 Federer jumped ahead, taking a 3-0 lead, saving breakpoints in the opening game and breaking his rival in the second game of the third set. He had three chances to break in the fourth game, in which the Spaniard had his biggest serve (196 kmph) and a blazing backhand that was precious in its timing. He held after a long-drawn game that went over eight minutes. There was no argument on the second break, Federer's backhand singed as it sang at 30-40, wrapping it up for him. The fourth set began in laborious fashion for Nadal, working to hold serve, but two careless forehands from the Swiss opened the door for the nine-time French Open champion, who broke on his second opportunity in the fourth game to give the tale a fresh twist.
 
 Federer took an injury time out to address a groin injury and when he returned to serve in the decider, he was staring at a double breakpoint at 15-40. The Spaniard didn't do much on the first opportunity , playing into Federer's hands, but on the second, on the 35-year-old's second serve, Nadal forced Federer to err. In a clash of furious exchanges Nadal took a 3-1 lead. The Swiss persisted with the attack, winning the next five games, closing out on his second championship point after Nadal challenged the call.
 
