Nashik: Last week, the corporators appealed to the civic administration to construct 650 speed breakers across the city before the election dates are announced.

 Now, the   ( ) has decided to remove speed breakers that, according to them, will help prevent accidents and traffic snarls. The removal of speed breakers is part of the RTO’s road safety campaign that will start from Monday. According to city executive engineer P B Chavan , there are already 350 speed breakers across the city.
 
 Deputy regional transport officer   said, “While spreading awareness about road safety would top our agenda from January 9 to 23, we have also decided to focus our attention on certain issues where immediate action is needed.”
 
 He added, “There are many unnecessary speed breakers on the highways. We would be coordinating with the concerned departments to remove those that are not constructed according to the set norms. The speed of vehicles has definitely come down due to these bumps, but they are proving a real problem for two-wheelers. Apart from this, we would also take strict action against overcrowded vehicles, mainly autorickshaws.”
 
 Meanwhile, the RTO officials said there were many killer spots in the city that have witnessed frequent accidents. “We have prepared a list of such spots and would be following up with the concerned departments and take preventive measures so that there are no more fatalities on the road,” said an official.
 
 Repeated fatalities have been reported in front of Khetwani lawns, Carbon naka in Satpur, Fame Multiplex junction on Pune road, Ambad MIDC, Makhmalabad, Siddhi Vinayak chowk in Adgaon, Saini park on   and the Medical junction on the road towards Adgaon in the city.
 
 Apart from this there are many spots in the rural parts of the district as well that have been identified by the rural police and RTO.
 
 Officials said school bus safety would also be among the top priorities during the campaign wherein they would spread awareness among school authorities and drivers about the safety measures they should be adhering to in the interest of school students.
 
 
