Birthdays are meant to be spent with near-and-dear ones, says  , which is something she has followed religiously through the years. The only difference, she adds, is that since becoming an actress, she has had to share the day with her fans as well, which she does gleefully, shaking hands, posing for pictures, cutting every cake brought to her and so on. As she rings in her big day today, she has her itinerary set. “It is an over-whelming feeling when you have so many people coming from different parts of the state only to wish you. I am very happy about that. The evening, of course, is for family and friends. And this year is all the more special because I am married, so it’s the first   as a Mrs. This time,   is going to be there. All these years, I used to meet him at the end of the day, after spending time with my fans,” she says, adding that she is also looking forward to being pleasantly surprised by her better half.

 
  
 But what’s also exciting for the actress this time around is that she is set to return to work, something people have been speculating about since the time she tied the knot. “It’s nice that people are keen to work with me. I knew that I always wanted to work even after I got married. I believe that your personal life does not have anything to do with your professional life. If you look at my career-graph, I have always chosen roles that are performance-oriented. The scripts and characters I have chosen will not come to an end because of marriage. And I have been lucky that whenever filmmakers think of a meaty role, they think of me. In fact, I am set to do a   soon. The script is still in discussion, but I am ready to return to work after a well-deserved two-month break,’ says Radhika.
 
 The break, she says, was thoroughly enjoyed. “I was settling in and enjoying all the attention you get as a newly-wed. There was a lot of travel and meeting people. We were also busy in setting up our office for our social work,  , and getting our first project for the year off the ground. Now, it is time for me to get back to work,” Radhika signs off. 
 
