BHADOHI: Yadavs of Ashogapur village in   have made it big for themselves in Mumbai. Though having lived in the commercial capital for last 25 years, many of them have ceased to be UP voters, they reached their home state for first-hand feel of the elections.

 “I moved to Mumbai in 1992. Prior to that I was a carpet weaver like several others in Bhadohi but it was not giving returns so I decided to join others from this village in Mumbai,” said Sheshmani  . He took a fortnight’s break from his dairy business to present during elections in Bhadohi.
 
 Ashogapur is one of the 10 gram sabhas in the Amwa nyay panchayat in Bhadohi. Yadavs voters are in majority in all the 10 gram sabhas. Bhulaipur, meanwhile, has 87% Yadav population while Ashogapur has more than 50%. Yadavs have migrated to Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra from all the gram sabhas.
 
 “It was my father Munni Lal Yadav, who first migrated to Maharashtra in 1980s and set up a dairy there since he had the skills. Later, he called my uncle and gradually many from the village followed,” said Ashogapur   Jilajit Yadav.
 
 Some of the Yadavs from Bhadohi have set up dairies in Mumbai, while others have opened shops selling milk and dairy products. But in the process, many like Mangta Prasad Yadav have stopped being voters in Bhadohi.
 
 But he said he had no regrets. “In Ashogapur, Brahmins hold big chunks of land but now, all the land here has been purchased by Yadavs and it’s because of our hard work for had we stuck to carpet weaving we would have been starving like other artisans here,” he said.
 
 The village has a lone Ramsanjivan Yadav in the region who is still working as carpet weaver. His sons work in Mumbai and he weaves in his spare time when there is nothing to do in the fields. Yadavs were not carpet weavers traditionally but living with Muslim artisans in the same   helped them learn the craft.
 
 “Younger people no nothing about the craft,” he said. Ashogapur has natives into farming. Out of 500 residents of the village, at least 150 are working in dairies in Mumbai, which comes to at least one member per family. “Yahan ek khoonta lagaane ke liye Brahmin ko ek kilo desi ghee dena padta tha (Yadavs had to pay 1 kg of desi ghee to a Brahmin to tie a cow or a buffalo in his field). But now economics has changed,” said pradhan.
 
 Villagers rued that being Yadavs has not brought them any ‘sarkari’ favours. “Our village does not have even a single solar light but Dhanapur, a Brahmin village, has been given eight,” said Phaguram Yadav. The village has only one beneficiary under Ujjwala scheme of the central government. 
 
 Yadav families in the village have hardly been beneficiaries under the Samajwadi Pension Yojna either. “This is because the former pradhan of the village was not a Yadav,” said Mangta Prasad, adding, “As if this was not enough ‘notebandi’ hit us hard in Mumbai and our families here. We can draw money from our Jan Dhan accounts.”
 
 The 12-beegha land alloted for girls' college in the village has been encroached. Girls cycle up to 16kms everyday to go to school after primary education. “The college is private. I want to study BSc but my family will not be able to fund my education in a private college,” said class XII student Nandini Yadav who scored 82% marks in UP board in class X.
 
 Yadavs in the village said they don’t want to come back from Mumbai as the level of development in their village has not changed much compared to what it was two decades ago when migration from the village began. 
 
