CHENNAI:  , a digital platform that connects   audiences on a real-time basis during sports events, has raised an undisclosed fund from  , consumer electronic goods and accessories manufacturer. 

 The sports social engagement app had earlier successfully raised funds from  ,   and  .
 
 The freshly infused capital will be utilised to strengthen the tech team at Rooter, all the while maintaining a lean structure. It at also adding more numbers to its sales and marketing team as well as to the content division to strengthen the vernacular versions of the app.
 
 This round of funding will, in addition, help accelerate the platform’s expansion into South East Asian markets and catalyse partnerships with sports teams and leagues.
 
 Commenting on the funding, Piyush, founder & CEO, Rooter, said, “It gives us immense pleasure to receive funding from Intex, one of the most successful Indian IT devices and accessories manufacturers. Rooter is essentially a tech-based platform and we wanted to have an investor on board who could also be our strategic partner and help us evolve our product to fully realize it’s potential. Intex’s deep understanding of the smartphone world and its popularity in Tier-2 and 3 cities of India will help us promote and develop Rooter’s unique idea further, optimising it to perfectly fit the needs of smartphone users everywhere.” 
 
 He said Rooter would benefit from the state-of-the-art technological setup of Intex, access to which can help reduce Rooter’s R&D costs. The ready database of Intex will also help the company to find new users.
 
 Keshav Bansal, spokesperson, Intex, said, “Rooter has a great fundamental idea, and its recent numbers suggest that its popularity is zooming by the day. As sports are an extremely emotion-driven phenomenon and the sports fan engagement platform is a completely uncharted territory, Rooter has limitless scope for growth. We feel this collaboration will be a perfect synergistic match and will enable sports’ fans to enjoy their favourite games like never before.”
 
 
