NAGPUR:   ( ) staged a daylong   at Samvidhan Chowk on Sunday to protest against the   of the government and demanded urgent steps to solve their problems. The agitation was organized to mark the first farmer suicide due to heavy debt on March 19, 1986, at Mohagaon village in Yavatmal district.

 Addressing the gathering, Anil Jawade, core committee member of VIRAA, said thousands of farmers have committed suicide in Vidarbha since then, but there seems to be no concrete efforts from the government to solve their problems. Farmers in Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Washim and Yavatmal districts are the worst sufferers, he added.
 
 The  , constituted in 2004 to study the problems of farmers and suggest measures to mitigate them so that no suicides took place, had submitted its report to the government. But successive governments dithered on his suggestions, Jawade said. The farmers should be given 50% more than the cost of produce and their loans be waived by the government to stop suicides, he said. 
 
 “Tehsildar and agriculture minister should be held responsible if a farmer commits suicide under their jurisdiction,” he said. The government had announced many policies and made budgetary allocation for the betterment of the farming community but ineffective implementation at the ground level was the main reason behind the farmers not getting full benefits, Jawade said.
 
 “Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi has been organizing various programmes since long to create awareness on the burning issue, but to no avail. Creation of a separate state of Vidarbha is the only solution to redress the farmers’ woes,” Jawade said. 
 
 More than 150 persons, including farmers and their families, participated in the protest. Swapnajeet Sanyal, working president of VIRAA, Neeraj Khandewale, general secretary, Surendra Pardhi, treasurer, Shailendra Harode, district president, Amol Kathane, Wardha district president, Sunny Telang, Shrikant Taral, Mithun Tadekar, Ketan Hedau, Shubham Nandanwar and Fahim Ansari were present. 
 
 (Reporting by Uday Naidu)
 
