CHENNAI: Three people, including a woman and her daughter, were on Wednesday arrested for not standing up as the   was playing at a mall in Vadapalani.

 M Shreela, 27, her mother Subashree and Bejon K Vinod, 22, were charged with dishonouring the anthem before being let off.
 
 Around noon, before   ‘Glory’ was to be screened at   in the   as part of the  , the anthem began playing. The three, however, continued sitting.
 
 Noticing this, a few volunteers of the festival organising committee came to their side and wanted to know why they had not stood up like others in the hall. An angry Shreela said it was their wish and the three continued sitting.
 
 “One of the organisers pulled up my collar and asked to me return the card given to visitors. I refused and continued to watch the movie,” Vinod said later.
 
 “Nobody has the right to force people. It is always one’s personal wish to follow or not,” said Shreela A.
 
 A few other people in the hall came to the support of the trio saying it was their personal right to decide to stand up for the national anthem. The voulnteers refused to listen and insisted that the three go out.
 
 Soon, two policemen arrived and took them out. At the Vadapalani police station, based on the complaint of the festival organisers, a case was registered under section 3 of the National Anthem Honour Act 1971 (Whoever intentionally prevents the singing of the Indian National Anthem or causes disturbances to any assembly engaged in such singing shall be punished with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both).
 
 Shreela, a final year law student, had been booked under the same act last month, police said. On December 11, she was booked with seven others for not standing when the national anthem was bein played at Kasi theatre before a film screening. A group of youths had even manhandled them, police said.
 
 The anthem is being played before film screenings in theatres across the country since November 30, 2016, when a two-member bench of the Supreme Court made it mandatory.
 
 
