If you thought   was the epitome of cringe-pop, you’re wrong. There’s another infinitely out-of-beat guy out there, Omprakash ‘Sot’ Mishra who recently became popular with his misogynist song ' '. Also unusual is the fact that young people in several cities in the country are shouting out lyrics from his song. The sight of grown up men screaming a song about hitting on an older woman with explicit descriptions is nothing but cringe worthy. It seems like young guys, to get their own 15-seconds-of-fame or 25-likes on social media, can stoop to be associated with something like this. And that is what is happening in cities like Delhi, Hyderabad and now  .

 So when we at BT heard that a flash mob was planned in Mumbai, we landed up to see just what the deal is about. What we saw was around 100-odd guys gathered shouting at the top of their voice to Aunty Ki Ghanti. Some were even blasting their bluetooth speakers at full volume singing the ribald lyrics unabashedly.
 
 
 Scrawny with a faux Mohawk that resembles more Kim Jong than Justin Bieber, Omprakash he drove in with 15 of his entourage (just as scrawny as him) and started dancing with his ‘fans’. After a quick 20-second gig, he fled the scene. The boys were all taken aback by the abrupt departure of the viral singer. Some reflected loudly that perhaps the fact that there were traffic police nearby scared him away.
 
 
 We got into his hired ride to sit with him and get to know just why is his misogynist jingle a talking point. His SUV was crammed with 11 to 12 of his posse and reeked of sweat. When asked, what he feels about the outright sexism in his lyrics, he says in broken-English, “Have you heard the song Despacito? Do people know what those lyrics mean? Foreign artiste karega toh aap sunoge, Indian artiste karega toh in log itna halla kartey hain! Also, my song is misunderstood. When I say ‘sot’ I am talking about alcohol shots and not in any sexual manner. If you listen, after every sentence, there is a question mark. I am asking for permission.”
 unruly fans
 
 He also threatened a journalist from a website who complained that the song was offensive to women. To this he agrees and says, “I don’t know why they have problem with the word ‘sot’. But yes, I did write that message. If there is any complain against me, I am ready to go to prison also. All I can say is that it was a bogus complaint on her part. My fans have answered her. If there is any police action against me, then I am ready to go to prison also.”
 
 
 One thing we observed was that Omprakash has no female fans. The only women who were around at the flash-mob, were there to witness the spectacle unfold out of sheer curiosity. When asked about it, pat comes his reply, “There were many women in the event, you just did not see them.” We told him that we got the crowd on camera where there are no women visible. And those who were there had no idea about him. To that, he retorted, “I get 20 calls a day from women! My assistant receives them. Mujhe kitne proposals bhi aaye hai. Yeh galatfami hai that women don’t like me.”
 
 
 Now that his song has been taken down from YouTube, doesn’t the future look bleak for him? “Not at all. I am already working on my new song. This will shake the nation. I am also thinking of a new name for myself. ‘Rap Baap’ or ‘Rap King’. You can also call me ‘Sot King’ because ‘Sot’ word is very famous,” he beams. 
 So, will misogyny feature in his lyrics in the future as well? “Mujhe lagta hi nahi ke mai women ko insult kartey hue songs banata hu. But yes, I will make songs with explicit lyrics,” he signs off.
 
