MADURAI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the road to   Dhanushkodi, bus no. 3 that runs from Agnitheertham to Mukuntharayarchathiram went on till Dhanushkodi on Friday. Officials said that they operated couple of services on trial basis and are contemplating on starting regular services. 

 Prior to 1964, Dhanushkodi was a buzzing port town connecting India with Sri Lanka through   train. The train, originating from Chennai Egmore, used to run till the pier in Dhanushkodi from where passengers would take a ferry to Talaimannar from where they boarded a train to Colombo. The British government, after laying the Pamban train route and rail bridge in 1914, developed Dhanushkodi in a big way. It had a post office, port office, government warehouse, immigration and customs offices, churches and temples. 
 
 But a devastating cyclone changed everything on December 22, 1964. The cyclone turned Dhanushkodi into a ghost town. 
 
 Tourists eager to witness the remains of the sprawling town had to hire jeeps or vans to go there in absence of a regular bus route. They used to charge anywhere from Rs 200 to Rs 500 per head for the trip. 
 
 After prolonged demand of reviving the town, the   has come out with a proposal of laying road till Arichalmunai. The 9.5km road was laid as two stretches – Mukuntharayarchathiram to Dhanushkodi for 5km and Dhanushkodi to   for 4.5km – with works commencing in 2014. 
 
 In January 2017, the roads were finally completed with retaining walls on both sides. The projects cost Rs 60 crore. After sea erosion started damaging the road, the National Highways Authority of India constructed a sea wall for 2km near Arichalmunai delaying the inauguration of the road. 
 
 Finally, the road to Dhanushkodi was inaugurated by the Prime Minister when he came down to inaugurate the memorial hall for former president APJ Abdul Kalam. On Friday, the Agnitheertham – Mukuntharayarchathiram bus ran till Dhanushkodi. Official sources said that they carried out trail run since the road has been officially inaugurated. 
 
