PATNA: The academics advise students to attend regular classes to score good marks in Board exams and clear the   after Class XII. But, when it comes to Bihar, the story is different as most of the students have to depend on coaching institutes as their schools lack teachers and proper infrastructure.

 Bihar Secondary School Teachers’ Association ( ) secretary   said students these days are more career-oriented and want to clear competitive exams for admission in engineering and medical colleges. “The main problem with the education system in Bihar is that the government schools do not have adequate teachers. Most of the schools have only one teacher for teaching physics, chemistry and biology. Intermediate syllabus is the base to understand the basics, but non-availability of teachers forces students to depend on coaching classes,” he said and added that most of the schools do not have functional laboratories.
 
 “Students of not only the government schools, but private schools also rely on coaching classes. This is the reason behind the boom in coaching business in Patna,” said Singh.
 
 Senior Notre Dame Academy teacher Abha Choudhary said engineering and medical entrance exams are application based tests. “Schoolteachers have limited time to complete the syllabus. There are only around 180 working days. The other reasons that students want to take private coaching are that teachers in a number of private schools are not competent. It is difficult for the schools to find good teachers for Intermediate syllabus. All the good teachers are running their own coaching institutes because they earn more from private business than spending seven to eight hours in a school.”
 
 Sources in education department accepted that lack of teachers is a major problem. “At least 70,000 teachers are required in high and higher secondary government schools. Under these circumstances, we cannot do much to improve the standard of education in schools,” said a source. 
 
 The official said all the coaching institutes had been asked in December 2016 to register with the government under the   (Control and Regulation) Act, 2010, by January 31 or face action. Under this Act, a student enrolled at a coaching centre should get one square metre area for studies, first aid facility, proper lighting, a cycle stand, washroom and drinking water facility. The centre should also have firefighting equipment and it should inform students about the educational qualifications of its teachers.
 
 A district education department officer said there are more than 1,800 coaching institutes in Patna, but only 400 are registered.
 
 “Coaching centres have mushroomed in Patna because the government has failed to provide quality education in schools. The coaching institutes are filling the vacuum left behind by the state’s education sector,” said educationist Nawal Kishore Choudhary. He said the coaching institutes are the only hope for students. 
 
 
