By 
 

 
 I will speak of two distinct approaches to the history and present of communism in which the first one has its origins in the West and is Eurocentric in its practice. The latter is a dismembered rendering of communism that is de-territorial and unhindered by time. The question is which is more apt to reflexively respond to the democratic impulses of our times.
 
 Both these renderings are set against the idea of an epic ­one that is purely Western and the latter that has Asian lineage. In terms of Western epic, we have the enlarged visions of human power,  , grandeur and all its existential beings are way above mortals. But, it is linear in structure and definitely lacks inter-linkages and crossconnections within. When you project the history and present of communism onto this epic front, we are left with an urtext and its various derivatives. In this version of epic communism, the urtext is the Soviet Union and all other communisms are translations, abridgments or condensed versions of the Soviet Union.
 
 At this moment of celebrating the 100th anniversary of the great October revolution, we have global assemblages of condensed communisms that would want to share some trace of its existence to the Bolshevik model.Such is the grasp of Soviet communism on the imagination of commu nisms elsewhere in the world.
 
 The epic communism of erstwhile Soviet Union had certain epochal qualities intrinsic to it. It broke away from the temporal lineage of European history, thus creating a new epoch. Mao perhaps surpassed the essential requirements of the Bolshevik paradigm through his Long March. But as soon as the revolutionary state was in stalled, it faithfully structured itself on Soviet one-party system with Chinese characteristics.
 
 You have such similar derivatives of communist states in different parts of the world. However, in nations, particularly in countries with a long history of independent struggle led by the bourgeoisie and the incipient middle class, they set a limit to the derivative practices of communism and therefore, it had to scheme itself to the apparatus of capitalist democracy.
 
 So, what the Bolshevik model left for communist parties like in India was to experiment with the derivative practices in its own political apparatus, which is the Party. But there it had to encounter problems specific to local conditions. Thus it moved from an absolute derivative model to abridged versions of epic communism. It was condensed communism in practice. In tune with this model, it produced several instances of abridgement repeated across sectors. Thus, we have abridged versions of international communist leaders, intellectuals and writers.Abridged Lenin, abridged Stalin, abridged   and even an abridged Brezhnev.
 
 Distinct to this, another possible rendering on the practices of communism is inspired by A K Ramanujan's perspective on the Indian epics as the open-ended system of a living tradition. It is a living network of political bodies that shares a reflex of relations. What I have in mind is not only Indian communist parties like CPI, CPM, CPI(ML), splinter Naxalite factions, Maoists, SUCI and recently splintered parties like CMP or RMP, but also different global micro-movements.
 
 For communist parties, the competitor is the bigger threat than the enemy. The task of eliminating the political enemy comes only second to its fundamental operation to erase the competitor. This is a structured repetition even within the institutional structure. The leader would be more keenly observing the competitor within the structure so as to outdo him. In similar repetitive mode, the insider intellectuals addressing each other as comrades would be keen to outsmart his comrade-com petitor as one accelerates towards power.
 
 You have several instances of this from its unique history. However, the desire for power and positions does not stand naked as in case of a liberal right wing party. It sometime needs the sheer brilliance of ideas to outsmart each other. This has been a repetitive feature in communist histories of all ages. But, if the ideas lack the charm of superior intelligence, the apparatus of the organization comes in aid of the commanding leader in his battle for power, as you can see this also repeating several times in history. The inside struggle for power is always dressed up as wars over ideas.
 
 However, from the viewpoint of long history, there can never be supremacy of one over the other because no tradition can outdo another. Each in its own unique way is repeating or replicating the central structuring principle of an epic, as Ramanujan has shown us. These are movements that outlived the fall of Soviet Union. They survived by adjusting to the framework of existing social and political conditions and also by performative repetition of incidents, settings, and even formulaic descriptions that fit the narrative of its own history of struggle.
 
 There are many communisms. You cannot trace its present to an urtext. It is the sheer diversity of practices that we need to recognize and understand. The diverse practices may not be legitimate according to the rule books of liberal democracy. Hence as a living force, it denies being abridged versions.
 
 The genealogical cluster of communism in India closely resembles Ramanujan's reading of Asian epics as 'contradictions, inversions, multiple views, multiform effecting and animating one another, expressing conflict and dissent through the same repertoire of idioms ­ all these are ways the tradition relates to each other. Reflexivity binds them together and gives them a common yet creative language for dissent'.
 
 As in case of the Asian epic itself, communism is no longer centred on a definite theory or practice. It becomes, instead, a whole genre or tradition, in which no practice is original and no practice is mere practice. In these darkening times of high-fideli ty (hi-fi) nationalism, such plurality of practices are modes of resistances, and we may ask isn't your inter-nationalisms a real trump card?
 As a living organism, it has to address and engage the sweeping changes taking place in its habitations. It has to respond meaningfully to the vacuum created by the demise of planned economy while seriously interacting with the essentialities of market economy. It's a new challenge. The response to this has been wide ranging.
 
 The   conceives the shift to market economy as legalized Marxist historical paradigm to establish capitalism so that it can patiently progress towards socialism. While the established communist parties of India would lean back to the Nehurvian path so that its unique enterprise of maintaining social status quo is not ruptured. It had tactically blundered in the face of peasant protest at Nandigram and Singur when its government grabbed the farmland for corporates. Hidden away from the mainland and dis persed in the deep interiors of India, guerrilla Maoist movements are still knitting dreams of armed revolution, sometimes ruthlessly compelling adivasis to be the shield for their violent methods of state capture.You also have communist organizations, adhering to Marxist belief system, while in actual practice committed to the bourgeois political parties advocating welfare capitalism.
 
 But sadly, none of the parties are able to show a glimpse of what alternative they ought to create. There is no escape from the temptations of electoral democracy.
 
 (Damodar Prasad is a media professional and political observer)
 
