NEW DELHI: Morning   for the newly converted Dyal   College (evening) — scheduled to begin on Friday — were postponed following large-scale   by students of the morning college. The students claimed that the split would leave them with no space. 

 The governing body decided to postpone the evening college’s morning classes till a three-member committee set up by DU’s executive council decided on infrastructure upgrade. While morning college faculty members were unhappy with the bifurcation, those from the evening college claimed that they had “exclusive designated space and won’t require the morning college’s classrooms”.
 
 Morning college teachers presented a representation to the GB on Thursday. “There is a serious lack of space for our students. With bifurcation, there will be a lot of pressure on our available resources, which would prove detrimental for students of both colleges,” said Premendra Parihar, a geography teacher at DSC (morning).
 
 He feared regular tussle between morning and evening students when “space crunch becomes a reality”. Parihar said with over 6,000 morning students, “we already lack proper facilities”. He added: 
 
 “Our auditorium cannot accommodate more than 150 and we don’t have a common room for boys. Our canteen lacks basic facilities. How can evening college students, who are over 2,000 in number, share these facilities?” Parihar said the condition of classrooms was already bad and “we have to use aluminium-walled rooms for tutorial classes under CBCS. Students are often asked to study in bamboo classrooms where the heat is oppressive”.
 
 The evening college administration claimed that the conversion would be “in a phased manner”. Principal Pawan Sharma said: “Only first-year students will have morning classes where we will not use any of the facilities of the morning college.”
 
 Sharma said a new academic building was under construction. “We are planning to convert the four-storeyed structure into a 10-storeyed building. A vertical expansion will provide adequate space to our students.”
 
 He sought the support of morning college. “If we are disallowed from becoming a full-fledged morning college, we will not have the legal authority to build new structures, which could easily end any conflict over space,” he said.
 
