NOIDA: A 24-year-old BA student of   was killed and his friend was injured when their speeding car overturned on a service lane of   on Wednesday night. 

 The victim, Kartik Pal Singh, died on the spot while his friend Mrigank Singh (22) was seriously injured. Kartik was a third-year student of Bachelor of Financial Financial Investment & Analysis (BFIA) while Mrigank is a BCom student at Amity University in Sector 125. 
 
 According to the police, the students were on their way to Wish Town in Greater Noida from Noida when the accident took place at around 10.30 pm. “The two students were in a Hyundai i20 car. The car was speeding at the time of accident. When they reached near Shani temple in Sector 125, Kartik suddenly applied brakes. The car overturned and was badly damaged. The two got trapped inside the vehicle,” said a police officer.
 
 Some passersby took out the two students from the car and informed police. The police rushed them to district hospital where Kartik was declared dead. Mrigank, who escaped with minor injuries, is undergoing treatment in the hospital.
 
 Kartik belonged to Haldwani in Uttarakhand while Mrigank belongs to Dibrugarh in Assam. The police have informed the family members of the students.
 
 Police said they found a liquor bottle in the car. “It is suspected that the driver was under the influence of alcohol at the time of accident. We are investigating the matter,” said a police officer.
 
 According to  , SHO, expressway police station, some witnesses said the car was speeding and it rammed a divider while negotiating a curve near Shani temple. “Kartik was driving the car and he received critical injuries with the steering wheel in his abdomen. He died on the way to hospital while Mrigank escaped with minor injuries,” he said.
 
 Savita Mehta, vice-president (communications), Amity Group, said, “It is a very unfortunate incident. The University students and staff are sad and are in grief. We have informed the students’ family members,” she said. Mehta said the two students were day scholars and stayed in a private accommodation in Greater Noida.
 
 The body has been sent for postmortem and a report is awaited, the police said.
 
 
