MUMBAI: Two young candidates, two faces of  .A dissident, a descendant.Amol Arun Naik, a former  , is all set to take on Sena's   in the Devipada hamlet of Magathane, in Borivli (E), while Harshad Prakash Karkar, 23, is Sena's youngest nominee in Mumbai north from ward No. 6.

 Both Naik and Karkar re present the Sena's character and credo, say local residents. “We see Naik as young crusader who is fighting the money-bag culture which has begun to permeate in the Sena,“ said Bhaskar Surve, a retired state government employee. On the other hand, Karkar is seen as the party's young voice: a link with Youngistan, heir to a political clan in keeping with the Sena's dynastic politics.
 
 Angered by Matoshree's decision to field Shingan from ward No. 12, Naik staged a revolt as candidates were finalised early this month.“Shingan belongs neither to the Sena nor to this ward. She and her husband are close associates of Prakash Surve.They all quit the NCP and joined the Sena in 2014. Surve won the Magathane assembly seat on a Sena ticket. He is said to have brought pressure on Sena leaders to field Shingan from the general ward,“ said Naik.
 
 Vikram Chogle, 30, a builder, is   nominee in the ward. He belongs to a clan known for its clout. Naik may not reach the winning post, but can upset Sena's poll calculations, said analysts.
 
 A well-planned poll campaign and a young team are Naik's plus points. His rallies are well-attended, mostly by   who, he claimed, were opposed to `outsiders' -Shingan, for instance.
 
 “Villagers are fed up of dy nastic politics and pomp. Locals want `aapla manoos' to be their representative in BMC,“ he said. Naik has become a cause for concern in the Sena.“Naik reminds you of the vintage Sena era when grass root workers were treated with respect,“ said Swapnil Gosavi, a commerce graduate.
 
 If Naik loves the battle of votes, Harshad started off as a reluctant ally in the poll game. The roly-poly undergraduate was happy with his friends and football. As his father, Prakash Karkar, took ill, Matoshree handpicked Harshad to contest from ward No.6. “I was taken aback when Papa told me I was going to be the Sena candidate from this ward. Frankly , I broke into cold sweat,“ said Harshad.
 
 He had little choice. Much was at stake, including the family's base in Dahisar and its close link with Matoshree, said a party activist. Karkar Sr was elected to the BMC in 2012. He is also `vibhag-pramukh' for Mumbai north. “I knew I was anyway going to join politics, sooner or later. I said yes to my father,“ said Harshad, as his baby face lights up with a smile.
 
 A team of party seniors shepherds Harshad to poll meetings every day . “My day begins at 7.30am when I should actually be lolling in bed,“ he said.
 
 Harshad works hard on his speeches and one-liners.“But I lack finesse and style,“ he admitted. He is excited the party has chosen him to take on Neela Soni, a BJP veteran.“I love a good fight,“ he said.
 
 However, the Karkar scion sorely misses his day out with friends--and his T-shirts. “I have to wear long kurtas.What to do,“ he sighed.
 
