BENGALURU: A rowdy-sheeter turned up at the CID headquarters on Friday, claiming his name had cropped up as a suspect in the   murder case, and offered to be questioned. But cops chased away the goon, saying they didn’t need to quiz him.

 High drama prevailed at the CID headquarters, where the   (SIT) probing the case functions from, when   arrived with his parents in the morning. 
 
 Giri, who was jailed for a few years in connection with many criminal cases, was released on bail only on Thursday. Sections of the media reported that the SIT suspected his role in the Gauri murder case and he had been summoned for questioning. 
 
 SIT sleuths clarified that they had no intention of questioning Giri. Chief investigating officer MN Anucheth said: “The SIT has not called Kunigal Giri for questioning and has no intention of doing so.”
 
 SIT sources said media reports about Giri could have been planted by vested interests.
 
 
 
 
 Investigators suspect a Bajaj Pulsar may have been used by Gauri Lankesh’s killer to get away on September 5. They said examination of shadows in the CCTV footage hints that the getaway bike could have been a Pulsar.
 
 The footage also shows a shadow of the leg of the person waiting on the bike for the killer to return after firing at Gauri. SIT sources said no one seemed to have followed Gauri from her office till her residence on the ill-fated day. An officer said the helpline they had set up for the public to provide leads is now receiving fewer calls. It was flooded with hundreds of calls initially, most of which were advisory in nature.
 
 “Many of the callers named a seer as suspect. One of the very few important calls led us to a motorcyclist. We picked him up for questioning but had to let him go as he had nothing to do with the case,” he said.
 
 ‘
 
 
 Director General of Police (CID) HC Kishore Chandra, who heads the team probing Kannada scholar MM Kalburgi’s murder case, declined to say anything on the similarities between the Gauri and Kalburgi cases. The DGP said the CBI team probing the Narendra Dabholkar case in Maharashtra managed to arrest Veerendra Tawde and Sameer Gaikwad with the help of leads given by the Karnataka CID. “Tawde and Sameer did not have any role in Kalburgi’s killing. We are investigating, but I cannot say if there are any similarities between the Kalburgi and Gauri cases,” Chandra said.
 
 
 
 
 Sanatan Sanstha, a Goa-based Hindutva outfit, described reports of its activists’ involvement in the Gauri Lankesh killing as “false news”. “This is nothing but an attempt by anti-Sanatan and anti-Hindu elements to deviate from the investigation,” a press release from the Sanstha said.
 
 
