INDORE: Excerpts from a competitive exam book that suggests students to “cut the head of a dog” have gone viral on social media, prompting pet lovers to write a mail to central minister  .

 The Hindi book ‘Paryavekshak – Sanyukt Chayan Pariksha’ published by  , has a lesson on   in which students are instructed to cut off the dog’s head and send it for examination to check if it has rabies.
 
 The pointers — while explaining what should be done in case of a dog bite — states, “If a dog bites a person, they should keep an eye on it for ten days. If the dog shows signs of rabies, his head should be cut and sent for medical examination. If the medical examination proves that it has rabies, then the injured person should be given anti-rabies shots.”
 
 The fourth point on the topic states, “All the stray dogs should be killed.”
 
 The excerpt has drawn the ire of animal activists in the city and education experts on social media, kick-starting a debate on the level of scrutiny exercised on curricula taught to students.
 
 “I can’t imagine someone being so brutal and heartless and to write about this in a textbook for students to read. It is an offence and a crime. They should be penalised,” said Rimjhim Joshi, city-based animal activist told TOI.
 
 Rimjhim came across the excerpts from the book a few days ago following which she and other activists in the city wrote a letter to Maneka Gandhi seeking action in this regard.
 
 “What the book says is not only incorrect but is also responsible for propagating large scale lack of compassion for animals. It clearly asks the reader to kill the dog if it is a stray. Eighty to ninety per cent of those that read this book are from rural areas. Imagine the impact on children referring to it,” said the letter which was sent by the animal lovers to Gandhi.
 
 Dr Prashant Tiwari, a veterinarian, claimed that the statement in the book was utterly perplexing. “If the dog has the rabies virus, it will start showing the symptoms within seven days of the bite in two different forms – dumb or furious. The virus affects the brain and it can be very easily detected by just noticing the symptoms,” he said.
 
 He added that he was shocked to hear that a textbook had mentioned cutting a dog’s head for medical examination. This is not the only incident of controversial text in school/college curriculum.
 
 A recent incident had also come to the fore where an environmental science text book for Class IV students had a lesson in which children are instructed to kill a kitten as part of an experiment to know the difference between living and non-living beings.
 
 Another incident in Pune, where a Class 12 Sociology book cited “ugliness” and physical disability of a girl as a reason behind the dowry issue prevalent in the country, had also come to the fore in the recent past.
 
 
