MUMBAI:   is in talks to raise as much as $2.25 billion (Rs 15,300 crore) in what could be one of the biggest offshore debt issues by an Indian corporate as the energy-to-retail conglomerate seeks to replace existing high-cost borrowings as well as build a war chest for its aggressive expansion strategy in telecom.

 At least 10-12 investment bankers are involved and marketing roadshows are expected to start soon in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, several people with direct knowledge of the matter told ET.
 
  
 The money is proposed to be raised through external commercial borrowings (ECBs), they said. It may be a syndicated loan. Securities may be priced 90-100 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor). The US 12-months Libor is now at 1.70 per cent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
 The company raised Rs 30,000 crore last year through a rights issue in two parts, in January and September. Earlier this month, the company said it would raise another Rs 30,000 crore through a rights issue of optionally convertible preference shares to invest in   Infocomm, the telecom unit.
 
 “We expect a lot of action from Indian corporates, especially the larger ones, as the offshore debt market is much more attractive now,” said a person working on the fund-raising plan.
 
 “We don’t know what will happen after a month, when   takes over and makes tough decisions. Reliance’s big move could be a fresh debt or to refinance an existing debt with a cheaper one, but definitely the process is on the fast track,” said a person working on the fund-raising plan.
 
 Reliance, which operates the world’s biggest oil refinery complex in Jamnagar with a capacity of 1.24 million barrels per day, has already invested $25 billion in setting up a nationwide, fourthgeneration mobile network. While announcing third-quarter earnings earlier this month, the company said it is planning to invest another $4.4 billion to enhance network capacity as it competes with   and Vodafone. Reliance Industries declined to comment on the matter.
 
 Reliance Jio has been adding about 6 lakh users per day and has about 7.2 crore subscribers after having launched commercial operations four months ago, the company said.
 
 
 
 Experts said Reliance has big spending lined up for the coming quarters, so the money could be deployed in various avenues. “Substituting higher cost with low cost can always be deferred till fresh appetite for funds is met,” said   Tulsian, founder, Tulsian.com. “The pace of investment will continue (for) at least two quarters for the company ( ).
 
 Fund-raising could be for a combination of factors.” RIL’s capital expenditure was Rs 37,791 crore in the October-December quarter. It spent Rs 81,691crore during the first nine months of the financial year for ongoing petrochemicals and refining projects at Jamnagar, Dahej, Hazira, US shale gas projects and the digital services business. Jio’s network will soon cover over 90 per cent of the population. Its gross debt stood at Rs 49,000 crore on December 31, with deferred payment liability of Rs 21,000 crore to the government for spectrum purchases.
 
 Global institutions are betting on Reliance’s ability to make Jio profitable.
 
 “Although we see signs of the refining cycle topping out, this will be partially offset by the start-up of the pet-coke degassifier which is set to add $2 per barrel to RIL’s margins. Operating income should continue to grow strongly in petrochemicals on volume expansion and a cyclical improvement in margins over the next two years,” US-based Bernstein Research said in a note last week. “While E&P has been a drag on earnings, we believe that the price reform announced by the Indian government will benefit Reliance. Further upside in the stock depends on the success of the Jio launch and how quickly Jio can capture market share. We remain positive on Reliance Industries in the near term.”
 
