DUMBRIGUDA/ VISAKHAPATNAM: A housing scam to the tune of nearly Rs 1 crore came to light when district collector   visited Tadda village in   in Visakha district on Saturday. 

 As part of his visits to tribal areas, the collector rode a motor bike to Tadda village where he learnt that the people lost about Rs 1 crore in a housing project through the State Bank of India’s Kinchumanda branch. The scam had taken place in 2012 but no action has been taken against the officials till date, a former sarpanch informed the collector. The collector sought details of the project from the officials and promised to write to the banking ombudsman for recovering the money in the next three months. Likewise, another Rs 50,000 was drawn by the bank officials from a self-help group (SHG) and not returned, he was told. 
 
 During his visit, the collector also examined a water filtration scheme in the village. He said once the election code that is being observed right now comes to an end, discussions on the construction of a 4-km road from Boddaput to Tadda would also be held. 
 
 He inspected Kasturba Girls School and PHC at Dumbriguda and interacted with the farmers of coffee plantations in Domangi and also visited Boddaputtu villages. He took lunch with the tribals at Guntaseema village. 
 
 When the collector interacted with students of class 9 and 10 of a tribal welfare school in Guntaseema in Dumbriguda mandal, the children failed to answer questions related to multiplications, translation and general awareness. Also, around 50% students in class 9 were absent. The collector warned the staff of severe punishment if the quality of education and attendance did not improve in the school.
 
 Pravin Kumar reprimanded the officials and teachers for the poor quality of education being provided in areas such as Guntaseema village. 
 
 “We will not compromise with the quality of education. We will draw an action plan to enhance capacity of the teachers as well as students. We will make a curriculum for the tribal welfare schools for the next academic year,” the collector told TOI. 
 
 He said there is a need to improve the livelihood of the tribal people through NREGS and other schemes so that they can be weaned away from Left wing extremism. 
 
 Pravin Kumar said his purpose of visit was to assess the situation in the mandals and provide better basic facilities like drinking water, roads and medical facilities. He also assured pattas would be issued for the pending 10,000 applications under the Forest Rights Act soon. Housing schemes would be completed in the Primitive Vulnerable Tribe Villages (PVTV) and non-PVTV areas. 
 
 This is the collector’s fourth visit to the interior pockets of Vizag agency. He visited Maoist stronghold areas like Rudakota, Injari and some places in Chintapalli. He is the first collector to visit all these places in the last four decades. ITDA project director Ravi Pattamsetty and other district officials accompanied him in the visit.
 
