As   approaches, Delhi is on high alert with additional security, like every year. But with markets becoming a soft target for terrorist attacks around the world, the Delhi Police is giving special attention to market surveillance. On Sunday, several police teams went on an inspection of the five most popular Delhi markets – M-Block Market GK-1, M-Block Market GK-2, Nehru Place,   and   – and Delhi Times accompanied them. Although the teams visiting all these markets were different, there was one common element –  , the police dog who was present for all the inspections. 

 
 
 Ramesh, a staff member at an apparel store in Lajpat Nagar Market, said, “The presence of police in the market brings a sense of security, but it also increases curiosity among customers. Logon ko Republic Day ki sale yaad rehti hai aur additional security ke baare mein bhool jaate hain. Baar-baar poochte hain, ‘Kuch mila hai kya?’ Police dog ko dekh kar sabko lagta hai ki market mein bomb scare ki news aayi hogi.” 
 Shopkeepers said that the increased security is reassuring. Sunil, a footwear vendor in Lajpat Nagar Market, told us, “Everyday, jawans from different forces visit the market with the local police, and even if they don’t stop and check every shop, it’s kind of reassuring for us. Pehle ki tarah sirf Rajpath ki security nahin badhai gayi hai. Ab bazaar mein bhi din bhar police rehti hai.”
 
  
  Mozel is accompanying teams from several police stations for security inspection in markets (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Dilip, SHO, GK-1, told us, “Ninety-nine per cent of the time when we patrol with a police dog, people cooperate and let us do our job. But some can’t resist the temptation of petting the canine.”
 On Sunday’s inspection, the M-Block Market, GK-1, was packed with the weekend crowd and Mozel spent most of the time in the parking lot, checking the vehicles. After two hours in this market, he left for his next destination – M-Block Market, GK-2.
 The GK-2 market, which comes under the  , was quite deserted when the team reached there at 4pm. And as Azam Khan, a police official from the CR Park Police Station, said, “Compared to other markets, this place is quite peaceful.” Even Mozel didn’t find anything interesting there.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 GN Arora, a shopper in M-Block Market, GK-1, told us, “Extra security arrangement for Republic Day is made every year in these markets, but this year, it seems like there is a special focus on the markets. They have put up more observation towers and a cop was telling us that the market is under 24/7 CCTV surveillance. If nothing else, it will at least discourage pickpockets.”
 Not just GK-1, but all the major markets are under CCTV surveillance. Over a 100 CCTV cameras have been installed in Nehru Place, due to which pickpocketing and shoplifting incidents have also decreased. A vendor in Nehru Place said, “The police told us ki aaj kal markets mein sabse zyada attacks hote hain. They told us to inform them if we see anything suspicious. Abhi tak batane layak kuch dikha nahin hai, but we all are extra alert. Jab se observation tower mein gunman ko baithaya hai, humari dukan se saaman gayab hona bhi kam ho gaya hai.”
 
  
  
 
 
 The three-year-old dog, marching ahead of the police team of Kalkaji, caught the fancy of moviegoers outside Satyam Cineplexes, Nehru Place. As people tried getting closer to Mozel, the cops shouted at the crowd – “Get out of the way, we are on duty.” The Nehru Place market has been cleared of the vendors, and is now under surveillance of 102 CCTV cameras. A Nehru Place police official told us, “The dogs’ involvement in security checks captures the imagination of passersby and shopkeepers, so many people ask – kya hua? koi baat hui hai kya?” The police officials also tell us that the dogs go on autopilot whenever there is a threatening situation. 
 
  
  
 
 
 After Nehru Place, the next checkpoint was at Lajpat Nagar. Like at any other buzzing market, Mozel attracted the attention of the crowd here as well, but clearly appeared disinterested. “He looks so cuddly”, “Why is he so grumpy? He never smiles?” “The dog is turning at ‘awws’ and ‘hellos’, does he understand all of this?” – These were some of the reactions of the public towards Mozel. A cop said, “Yes, he can differentiate between affection and danger, but responds only to the latter.” “Does he bite?” a child joked. While the trainer and the dog went ahead looking for anything suspicious, another beat officer responded, “He does what he’s trained to do. He doesn’t know how to bite!”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After seven hours of inspection, Mozel still looked active during the security check at New Friends Colony. “He is tired, but he can handle work pressure. These dogs are trained to take extra workload, without crumbling under pressure. You can see that even after his extended shift, he is not showing any signs of disinterest,” the officer said, inspecting his companion. “May I take a picture, please?” a young girl asked. The dog looked up, but didn’t oblige, and moved on. 
 
