BELAGAVI: More than 4.87 lakh people and 38.33 lakh   spread over 217 villages and tandas in   district are staring at a severe   well before the onset of summer. Waterbodies in the district dried up and the   at several places, particularly the dry region, depleted In January itself.

 Except villages in Belagavi, the problem of drinking water could turn worse in rest of the nine taluks, especially in Khanapur, Gokak, Bailhongal, parts of Chikkodi, Hukkeri, Raibag and Athani. As many as 69 villages of Gokak, 36 in Raibag, 25 in Athani , 20 in Khanapur and Hukkeri, 18 in Ramadurg, 13 in Chikkodi, 10 in Bailhongal, six each in Ramadurg and Saundatti could face severe drinking water from March. 
 
 For the first time, about 20 villages nestled in the Western Ghats section of Khanapur taluk, which is known as a heavy rainfed area, are facing severe water crisis. The tiny village of Vadagaon near Jamboti with hardly a population of 1,200 is already facing acute potable water problem, despite being situated near the Kalasa rivulet. Gotagali located in thick forest is also facing the heat of water scarcity. The district administration has prepared a plan to supply water for 200 days from March. With an expenditure of Rs 138.4 crore, the administration plans to use 1,419 tankers to supply drinking water to villages every day.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner   said that as part of the drought relief programme, the district administration has prepared the probable list of villages which could experience face scarcity of potable water. The state government has released a contingency fund to take up drought relief programme. Adding to this, the zilla panchayat will also take up water supply schemes, he said
 
 Dayand Appayanavaramath, a resident of Kuragund, said: “Our village is situated on the banks of Malaprabha river. Despite this, our village may face drinking water problem in the coming days as the riverbed is on the verge getting dried up. Kuragund is totally dependent on Malaprabha river and borewells are the source of water supply in the village, especially the new settlement,” he said.
 
 
