LUCKNOW: According to Hindu belief, Goddess Durga has arrived on a   this year and the Model House organizers have taken it quite literally. Here, not only was the idol brought on a boat but the pandal has also been designed as a water vehicle.

 Durga’s arrival by boat signifies   and excessive rains. Some even believe that the heavy rainfall in Mumbai, West Bengal, Gujarat and Rajasthan is a sign of that.  , one of the organizers of Model House Durga puja, said, “Because this year Devi is supposed to arrive on a boat, we decided to give the a realistic feel. The pandal also resembles a boat.”
 
 The   puja committee also came up with a similar idea. This year, the Devi-grah has been placed on a boat-like structure. Explaining the belief of Durga’s arrival and the associated folklores, the head priest of  , Amit Goswami, said, “During Durga puja, the Goddess visits her maika (mother’s home) along with her four children; Laxmi, Saraswati, Ganesha and Kartik, from her husband’s home in Heaven. Her coming by boat is not a good omen, it symbolizes immense rainfall. Some even believe that everything may get ravaged by wave of flood.”
 
 Durga mostly comes on one of four vahans (mode of transport); ‘gojo’ (elephant), ‘ghoda’ (horse), ‘nouka’ (boat) or ‘paalki’ (palanquin). Traditionally, Bengalis believe that the weather and fortune changes depending on the vahan she chooses to arrive on. Sri Ramkrishna Math head priest Swami Muktinathanand said, “I believe it’s the other way round. The Goddess came on a boat because all the land routes are inundated. But her coming on a boat is certainly not a fortunate sign; it is followed by floods.”
 
 Some even believe that the mode of transport is decided by the day it is on the sixth day from when Devi arrives on Earth. “If the sixth day is a Sunday or a Monday, Durga comes on an elephant. If it’s a Tuesday or a Wednesday, a boat ferries her to Earth. If it’s a Saturday, she comes on a horse and on the rest of the days, she arrives on a doli,” said Akhil Bhattacharya, a Bengali priest. Also, this year the horse is believed to be the mode of transport for Durga to return after visarjan. The horse is also not a very auspicious vahan as it symbolizes a tough journey and is believed to leave behind misery and drought in its trail.
 
 
