Kolkata: Lillian Lou, whose parents left their Kolkata home almost seven decades ago, was flying back to her California home over the Pacific Ocean when the President of India dedicated the Indian Institute of Liverand Digestive Sciences (IILDS) in Sonarpur to the nation on Thursday. But you could bet that Lou’s thoughts were there in Sonarpur some 8,000 miles away. For, it was a chance meeting between her and Calcutta-based gastroenterologist Dr Abhijit Chowdhury — at a restaurant housed in a 14th-century building in Barcelona — that would be the seed for a Rs 60crore, 100-bed superspecialty   on the city’s southern fringe.

 “I met professor Chowdhury during a liver disease conference in 2012. I admire his passion, dedication and determined pursuit in improving healthcare for the people of Bengal,” Lou told TOI over an email. The California-based scientist was one of the first to respond to the call for financial help by connecting Chowdhury and his team to donors. A brainchild of the Liver Foundation West Bengal (LFWB), more donors came forward to make the make the hospital materialize.
 
 “I know the kind of selfless effort Chowdhury and his team have put in to give shape to their dream. It is great honour for me to find ways to support his work. It is heartfelt to witness the progressive germination of IILDS and the benefits it brings to the people who need quality healthcare,” Lou wrote in her email.
 
 Built on 4 acres given by the state government, the hospital is expected to provide a breather to the common man who needs affordable quality care. “This hospital is built with public money and is not owned by anyone. Here, the patients will pay only what they have to. In addition to treatment facilities, the institute will also be conducting research on various topics,” said LFWB secretary Chowdhury.
 
 “We will need about two days to sanitize the hospital before we start taking in indoor patients,” said Parthasarathi Mukherjee, project director at LFWB.
 
 Apart from overseas funds, pharma companies, public sector units like SBI and Coal India and individuals from the Sonarpur locality contributed to the project, Recently, Gitasree Dey, a widow who live near the hospital, donated Rs 10 lakh. Subrata Dasgupta, another local who lost his father recently, has pledged to donate the amount he would have spent on his father’s shradh ceremony.
 
 “This is a beginning of a journey for LFWB. Let it succeed. The government will extend whatever help it requires,” said chief minster Mamata Banerjee, who attended the Thursday function along with the President.
 
 
