COIMBATORE: The presence of a 18-hole   complete with a coach and training facility has over the years made the game popular among the city children, especially girls as many have realised that it can be taken up professionally.

 Golf club officials, who conduct at least one summer camp for children every April, said the number of participants has almost increased three-fold in the past decade or so. “Around 10 years ago, hardly four-five children used to attend the camp and most of them were wards of golfers or club members,” said Vipin Nair, club manager. “Today, the number of participants has gone up to almost 50,” he added.
 
 According to coaches, seven is the ideal age for children to get introduced to golf. “There are also many instances where children introduced to the game at the age of 10/11 claiming titles. Girls generally grasp concepts and start to concentrate at a younger age compared to boys,” said P  , head coach at  .
 
 “Many of our students play at the national and zonal levels. But in general, awareness regarding golf is very poor and the importance given to the game is less in  , compared to places like Bengaluru, New Delhi and Mumbai. The focus here is still more on academics,” Shivamoorthy said. “In Bengaluru, good golf players study half-a-day and play the game the remaining part of the day,” he added.
 
 In fact, in Coimbatore, most child patrons of golf are girls. “Of the 20 youngsters who regularly practice the game here, nine are girls,” said D Lakshminarayanasamy, club president. Riddhi Gautham, 14, who started learning golf at the club around three years ago, said it was the challenge of concentration and stability that need to be maintained over hours that attracted her to the sport.
 
 “Golf like any other sport requires a lot of stamina, because you have to be on your feet for four hours and all the while concentrate and maintain stability. So it keeps one fit and improves concentration,” Riddhi added.
 
 The two full-time coaches offer coaching to outsiders too.
 
