JAIPUR: Gone are the days when film producers stuck to the archaeological beauties like forts and palaces as destinations for film shootings in Rajasthan. Ever since the shooting of Imtiyaz Ali’s Jab We Met in Rajasthan, film producers from Mumbai mayanagari are all for exploring new locations in the state. After exploring havelis of Mandawa and Sambhar lake in films like Rajkumar Hirani’s PK, the coaching city of Kota is the newest addition to filmmakers’ list. And not just the local lakes and temples in Kota, the new Seven Wonders Park has also been used as a location in the upcoming Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt starrer  . 

 The Park is growing popular for housing replicas of the seven wonders of the world including the Taj Mahal, Egypt’s pyramids, the Leaning Tower of Pisa, the Eiffel Tower, Christ the Redeemer statue, the Colosseum and the Statue of Liberty. 
 
 For the shooting of Badrinath Ki Dulhaniya, during September a lot many locations in Kota were explored. “Some people of the production visited Kota in May last year and clicked photographs. And in September, the crew landed in Kota and explored further locaitons in the city for the first time,” said a source close to the production unit of Badrinath Ki Dulhaniya. 
 
 Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt were seen shooting at various locations around Kota City, including   and Jal Mandir Temple which is on the lake, the road outside Janaki Devi Bajaj Government Girls College, Umed Club, the road near Art Gallery, and a city bus in Kota among other places there. 
 
 “Kota has become a new   destination for filmmakers. I hope after ‘Badrinath...’ is released, we will have more filmmakers landing here for shooting,” said a source involved in providing junior artistes in Kota. 
 
 When contacted, Raj Bansal, a leading film distributor, who also facilitates many filmmakers in location hunting, said, “Even Milan Luthria who has been shooting for his film Baadshaho explored the bylanes of Jodhpur unlike the practice of just using Mehrangarh Fort as film location. People will see he has exploited Jodhpur very well in the film.” 
 
