Kolkata: Director Arindam Sil’s ‘Dhananjoy’ has become embroiled in another controversy. 

 Probal Chaudhuri of Indian Statistical Institute forwarded to TOI a letter from   Chatterjee’s family to the director stating that they didn’t want the film to be made. Chaudhuri, along with Debasis Sengupta and Paramesh Goswami, had published the book ‘Adalat, Media, Samaj Ebong Dhananjoyer Phasi’ in August 2016, on which the movie is based.
 
 Dhananjoy was hanged for raping and killing 14-year-old Hetal Parekh. 
 
 Chaudhuri got in touch with TOI after reading an article in which the director had claimed to have obtained an NOC from the family. 
 
 “Raghunath Chatterjee, who is a resident of Chhatna and a faculty member of ISI, was contacted by Dhananjoy’s brother Bikash (Chatterjee) and sister Shanti (Mukherjee). They had mentioned their objections to this movie. I am in favour of the film being made but also believe that the family’s sentiments must be respected,” said Chaudhuri.
 
 Sil told TOI: “They had initially agreed to the project. They are now reacting because they fear some backlash. We are in the process of discussion.” In a letter to Raghunath, the director had stated: “It is my good intention to bring out the truth and present it to the public and save the disgrace with which the family has been living for all these years. I would also like to help out the family of Dhananjoy Chatterjee by any which way I can.”
 
 When TOI got in touch with Shanti, she said: “If my brother was alive, I would have wanted this film to be made. He was hanged for a crime he never committed. My brother, Bikash, is a farmer. My husband is a purohit. I have two children who are studying. After Dhananjoy’s hanging, we have no connection with his wife. Now that Dhananjoy is no more, we don’t want a film to be made. It is bringing back memories that we don’t want to relive. We don’t want money from the director either.”
 
 Raghunath also met Bikash and Shanti in Chhatna and they reiterated their objections. “I appreciate the courage of the director for making this movie. But he also needs an NOC from the family in writing to do so,” he said.
 
 Chaudhuri said it was difficult to understand the backlash a family might face in a village. He said: “If they don’t want a film to be made, the director has to talk to them to sort out the issues. I don’t want any misunderstandings.”
 
 
