MUMBAI: Two days before the third round of baseline test in schools across the state, question papers of Class VIII English and mathematics were available to several students. The papers were doing the rounds on communication platforms like WhatsApp. TOI received a copy of both the question papers.

 The paper leak comes on the heels of the similar leak of at least six papers during the recent HSC exams.
 
 On Tuesday evening, the exam date was pushed to April 10 and 11. This year's third round -summative assessment II -was to have been conducted in all schools on April 6 and 7.
 
 The baseline test is one of three conducted every year since 2015 for students from Classes I to VIII in the first language and in math as part of the Pragat Shaikshanik (Progressive in Education) in   to evaluate learning levels. Officials of SCERT (State Council for Education Research and Training), which designs the question papers and dispatches them to schools across Maharashtra, felt there was no need to lose sleep over the paper leaks. “These papers are really judging the knowledge of our children. The spirit of these tests needs to be understood,“ said an official. “Only if the child understands the concept will she be able to answer the questions,“ added the officer. The baseline test aims to check whether the concepts taught in class during the previous year are clear or not, and if the child needs extra help in certain areas. But teachers from coaching classes said the papers were widely circulated and tutorials were solving them so that their students don't face difficulty. The scores of the baseline tests don't add to students' overall results, but the leak and the fact that students know what to answer in the test defeats the purpose of the baseline test, said experts.
 
 During the last round of tests in October 2016, several parents in Mumbai had complained to the education department that photocopy stores were selling the question papers for Rs 20 to Rs 30 in shops at Byculla, Agripada and  . On Tuesday , there were reports from   that the latest papers were available for Rs 30.
 
 School principals in the city said they have been asked to collect the papers from the BMC education department on Wednesday . They said there is a lack of seriousness about these tests. “The department does not have any security measures in place when it comes to baseline tests. Most schools indulge in malpractices while conducting the exams. Several non-state board schools skip the examination and there is no action taken. We too plan to stop conducting the tests from next year,“ said the trustee of a school.
 
 Teachers said the state spends about Rs 7 crore on the tests but is failing on implementation.
 
 Educationists said the state had ignored their suggestions made last year. “Schools, especially in smaller cities and towns, are worried about how their students perform in these tests because that affects their grading at the state level. The schools train their students for two days for good results,“ said educationist Heramb Kulkarni. After similar troubles last year, he had suggested the education department send out the papers on the morning of the test and have external invigilators.
 
 School education secretary   said the test is unaffected even if the papers are known beforehand. “These are not memory-based tests. The papers check for a child's understanding which is application-based. When we ask the schools to conduct the tests, we believe it will be done in the right spirit. If schools indulge in malpractices, we will address the issue.“
 
