Vadodara: Within a month’s time, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had to face another embarrassment after an additional district court here slapped an exemplary fine of Rs 1 lakh on it for loss of valuable judicial time of the court by filing a review application.

 VMC had filed an application in the court of additional district judge R K Chudawala to review his order of restoring the hand cart of Babu Pardeshi, a newspaper vendor, near Dr B R Ambedkar’s statue on R C Dutt Road after it was picked up by the encroachment department in December last year. Pardeshi had moved a contempt application in lower court after the hand cart was picked up. A sessions court in 2012 had ordered in Pardeshi’s previous appeal to maintain status quo of his hand cart at the same place.
 
 Pardeshi’s appeal was rejected as he did not have any evidence of confiscation. Pardeshi’s lawyer K K Kini told TOI that the VMC had not done an inquest or issued receipt of confiscation to him. Later, Pardeshi filed a civil application in sessions court, which ordered on August 24 to restore the hand cart within 10 days.
 
 However, instead of restoring the hand cart, the civic body filed a review application on September 1. The court, during the hearing, observed that the VMC’s application is an appeal in disguise to evade from implementing the earlier order.
 
 Kini said that the court considered the provisions of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, which gives statutory protection to the street vendors until the appointment of town vending committee (TVC). The TVC is responsible for decide of hawking and non-hawking zones in the city.
 
 The court, in a stern language, said that it is necessary that the VMC maintain the sanctity and dignity of court and its judgement by obeying. The court, while disposing the application and slapping the fine, asked the civic body to deposit the money with the district legal services authority within three days.
 
 
