MUMBAI: A Borivli builder against whom residents filed an online complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office last year has got the local   MP and three corporators to pressure the   for his upcoming highrise project.

 The civic building proposal department in Kandivli has said BJP MP   and three party corporators visited the office and insisted construction permission be given to the developer.
 
 “Gopal Shetty visited this office on December 23, 2016 along with three municipal councillors, Pravin Shah, Bina Doshi and  , and insisted commencement certificate be granted to the developer without any further delay,’’ said a letter signed by BMC’s deputy chief engineer Parag Raut to the municipal commissioner.
 
 However, Shetty told TOI he is “neither supporting nor opposing the builder’’ and that he only wants the BMC to take the “correct decision’’.
 
 Last month, TOI front-paged the case of 330 flat owners of Rishikesh Park in Borivli (west), who complained that the builder was trying to usurp their layout’s floor space index (FSI) worth Rs 232 crore to build a tower. Residents of the six housing societies in Rishikesh Park said the builder was entitled to build 35,000 sq ft. However, in connivance with civic officials, he had grabbed the approved FSI for the entire layout of Rishikesh Park by submitting plans for a buildable area of 1.51 lakh sq ft, they complained. In 2006, when the builder first submitted plans, the permission was only for a ground-plus-five storey building. In 2013, BMC approved a fresh plan for a 23-storey tower with two wings and 200 flats.
 
 When the police and civic authorities snubbed them, the residents filed an online complaint with the PMO’s centralised public grievance redress and monitoring system. The PMO referred the grievance to the state urban development department. By then the builder’s clearance had lapsed; following the complaint, BMC did not renew the builder’s construction permission.
 
 Ketan Shah, who represents the flat owners, said the BJP MP had no business to intercede on behalf of the builder when the BMC did not revalidate the building permission last October. “He visited the municipal office and pressured the officers to open the file again,’’ he alleged.
 
 Shetty said his intervening in the dispute does not mean anything if the rules are not bent for anyone. “I held a meeting with society members and builder to resolve the issue,’’ he said. The MP also produced a letter he wrote last year to the Kandivli office of the BMC’s building proposal department, asking it to “examine the issue in detail’’. “The say (sic) of M/s R K Builders may also be considered confirming the reality and absolute truth, the right side may be protected. Kindly do intimate the outcome of case in due course,’’ said Shetty’s letter to the executive engineer of the department.
 
 The builder, Shreechand Punjabi, had last month told this newspaper that the residents were misleading everyone and harassing him with false complaints.
 
 Incidentally, the BMC’s legal department has ruled in favour of the builder, stating that the original approved layout plan of the property is missing. It also opined that building permission cannot be withheld as there is no court stay against it. The matter will now be decided by municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta.
 
 But speaking for the residents, Ketan Shah said, “Legal opinion is not the point on which building plans are approved. We will fight this out till the end.’’
 
