BHOPAL: Realising the need for overall development of athletes and improving their performance, especially at international events, the sports department has decided to launch a full-fledged   at  , Bhopal. The department will also appoint a consultant within a week. 

 Sports director   said that the centre will come up in one year. "Sports in the contemporary era require various things that also include sports science. Only skill or good coaching is not everything in today's sports. In the age of tough competition, we need to work on every area where an athlete is lacking. It could be psychology or even biomechanics. Sports science is a way to overcome such situations," he said. 
 
 About the centre, he said, "We will have specialist scientists from different fields to focus on each player. Besides, there will be consultants to suggest areas where players need to improve."
 
 Citing the example of players going abroad for the first time to take part in a competition, Jain said, "Several players lose their confidence just out of fear that they are playing in an international meet for the first time and concede the match. Many times, they fail to regain that confidence. This is where sports science works." Sources said centre will have high equipped lab with modern equipment like Bertec  , activio real-time heart monitoring, 3D analysis and others.
 
 Sources said sports minister   wanted to have a sports science centre. Citing an example of shooters, a senior official, without quoting his name, said, "These games need intense focus. Several times, players, despite being talented, fail to hit the target owing to various reasons. After witnessing similar situation in other games, minister Scindia pushed for sports science."
 
 Sports science studies how a healthy human body works during exercise, and how sport and physical activity promote health from cellular to whole body perspectives. Sports science incorporates areas of physiology (exercise physiology), psychology (sport psychology), anatomy, biomechanics, biochemistry and biokinetics. 
 
 Sports scientists and performance consultants are in demand with the ever-increasing focus in the sporting world on achieving the best results possible. Through the study of science and sport, researchers have developed a greater understanding on how the human body reacts to exercise, training, different environments and many other stimuli.
 
 Psychological development, motivation, positive reinforcement, stress management, self-confidence and setting goals are some of the important components of sports science.
 
