KOLKATA: Bengal and Tamil Nadu, the two states who were most vocal about holding separate medical entrance tests apart from NEET last year, have parted ways this year.   has framed its own law over entrance to state medical colleges, but Bengal has given up the state medical entrance test, now that NEET authorities have agreed to hold the examination in Bengali.

 But the clamour for a separate test, on the lines of Tamil Nadu, is growing in Bengal.
 
 On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu became the first state to move a legislation to hold its existing method of admissions to the various MBBS and BDS courses in the state. Bengal, on the other hand, already made it clear that they will not go against the Apex court's mandate to hold a uniform entrance test to all medical colleges across the country.
 
 “In NEET 2013, the regional language students were allowed to take the exam in their respective states only.It was noted that a Bengali student living outside Bengal and studying in the Bengali medium had to return to Bengal to appear for the exam,“ said  , formerly associated with SSKM Hospital.
 
 “It was also observed that regional language question papers (like Bengali) did not reach many examination centres on the actual date of the examination. As a result, the examination was re-held for those candidates with a different set of question papers in regional languages on a later date.This proved that CBSE was not capable of holding NEET in different regional languages,“ Maiti added.
 
 Another major problem for students will be that NCERT books of all science subjects are available only in English and Hindi. “Generally, examiners prefer those books to set the questions. Thus, those writing in Hindi and English are getting an undue advantage than those writing in regional language,“ pointed out another source.
 
 Diptendu Sarkar, a stu dent of Class XII in a government school, said: “This will be my first attempt at cracking an All-India examination. Being a student of a Bengali medium school, I'm apprehensive about taking the test. I wish the Bengal government holds a similar exam like Tamil Nadu.“
 
 A senior health department official, however, felt that the main problem had been solved, now that Bengali had been included. “Our primary concern was regarding students in the Bengali medium, who would have failed to take the exam if it was held only in English, Hindi and Urdu,“ he said.
 
 “However, Supreme Court has addressed our concern and now NEET will be held in eight languages, including Bengali. Moreover, they have even agreed to set a question paper based on a common syllabus. Hence, we have decided not to hold any separate entrance exam and have also informed the   Joint Entrance Examination Board accordingly,“ he added.
 
