I am a single child with doctor parents, who have both served in the  . Growing up as an army kid involves a lot of idiosyncrasies – moving schools and cities every two years. Nothing remains constant in your life except your family. And a BIG part of my family, since I was about seven years old, has been our pet dog(s). I still remember my experience with our first pup. He came into our lives in a little brown box, and I was so scared I refused to get down the dining table. It took me a few days to realise that he needed way more comforting and welcoming than the other way round. And since then we have been a family of four.

 Champ was our first dog, a golden retriever. And thanks to his ‘defence’ lineage parents, he was quite a sight – tall, muscular and handsome, like a young lion. Since Champ, we have had three more dogs, subsequently. And in these 25 odd years of my life with them, every single day I came home — be it from school, college, work or anywhere — to find a furry, happy face, wriggling and jumping, wagging its tail nineteen to the dozen, like they are seeing you after years.
 
 Our pets have been the babies of the house and they lived inside the house with us — not outdoors or in kennels! The only thing that was ‘off-limits’ to them as per house rules (mom’s) were the beds. But just like any other child, I never followed the rules strictly! And the most important point was the ‘conversations’ we had. We have never trained our dogs but they all picked up training from normal human conversations, be it sit, heel, or something as odd as Champ learning to bring his chain whenever he felt like going for a walk!
 
 Each of them had their own characteristics and personalities and were NOT replaceable. And their importance in our lives cannot be described in any manner better than the drives we had, together. During summer vacations, we wouldn’t take trains or flights to travel down to Kerala, be it from Delhi, Jabalpur or wherever. Instead we would drive down, no matter how many days it would take, or how inconvenient it might seem to travel in Maruti cars without ACs, GPS or mobiles, without hotels and restaurants on the way, breaks-downs notwithstanding. And of course sharing the backseat with my huge, drooly, furry, four legged sibling. But we’d still do it year after year, vacation after vacation, transfer after transfer. Kennels wasn’t an option for Champ; would we think of that option for any other family member? And those pretty rugged, three-four day-long road trips with my dogs have had a HUGE influence on my childhood.
 
 As I grew older, my dog became my confidante. Those guys have a way of knowing all your moods and, more importantly, knowing exactly what you need at that moment. From forcing you to a game of fetch to just being there for a hug and a cry, they can totally shake you out of what is bothering you. And imagine, you have a sibling with all the advantages, and none of the disadvantages like sharing your clothes and especially, telling on you to your parents.
 
 Our current pet is a black lab called Danny, who has been around for eight years now. My son Sid, who is six, has always had   around from day one. I don’t think he even knows there is another way to grow up, than without having   around to play with, to wait at the gate when he comes back from school and basically, just be around 24X7.
 
 And this is something I’ve experienced myself and now through Sid’s interactions with Danny — that growing up with a pet makes you a very caring and extremely empathetic individual. You grow up knowing this completely selfless and mad love and there can’t be a more positive influence in your life than knowing that such love exists in the world. Another thing is that when you grow up caring for a being that doesn’t talk your language, you learn to be patient and understanding. I feel that every time Danny indicates that he wants something, we automatically understand it.Growing up caring for someone who doesn’t talk our language definitely make one kind and understanding and of course, it’s a lot of fun!
 
