GREATER NOIDA: A group of residents took to ‘Gandhigiri’ on Monday to rid Greater Noida of “visual pollution” and offered flowers to agencies and individuals who had defaced public places with their advertorial posters and graffiti. 

 Under the   (ACG), about a dozen residents from  , Alpha and  , among others, have been cleaning up public places, such as markets, parks, sidewalks, boundary walls of apartments etc., in an effort to keep the city clean and beautiful. They removed unauthorised posters and advertisements put up by various companies and institutes engaged in tuition, and property dealers offering paying guests/rental accommodations, among others.
 
 However, as soon as the old posters were removed, some agencies and individuals pasted new advertisements there, undermining the citizens’ efforts and the campaign’s objective. “We launched this drive earlier this month, cleaning up public places during the weekends. But on Monday, we saw some advertorial posters back in public places. So we decided to take to Gandhigiri as shown in the movie, Munna Bhai MBBS,” said Harinder Bhati, a member of ACG.
 
 Another ACG member, Anju Pundhir, said, “We went to the office of Career Launcher, offered them flowers and requested them not to deface public places with posters. We suggested that they could instead advertise in newspapers or on social media platforms.”
 
 Manisha Sharma, also an ACG member, maintained that their Gandhigiri was well received as the officials at Career Launcher agreed to remove their posters and also offered to join the cleaning drive. 
 
 “We admit that polluting public places with visual elements is not right. We have promised to help the ACG team in cleaning the area,” said Komal from Career Launcher.
 
 Alok Singh, a founder member of ACG, said that they had already cleaned Pari Chowk, Beta 1 and nearby areas, and are planning to continue the drive in other sectors. “We will also continue our Gandhigiri to create awareness among the masses and urge them to do their bit,” he added.
 
 
