MANGALURU:   of the IT department, Karnataka and Goa region, has come across Rs 4,300 crore of undisclosed income admitted by people from April 1, 2016 to date. This includes Rs 172 crore admitted during a search conducted in   and Udupi district on February 1 on a cooperative institution, individuals, groups, trusts, companies and firms, said B R Balakrishnan, DG of Income Tax (investigation), Karnataka and Goa region.

 Interacting with reporters after inaugurating the new office of additional director of income tax (investigation) at Albuquerque House at Pandeshwar on Monday, Balakrishnan said more than Rs 1,000 crore admitted by people has come post the demonetization move by the PM. Rs 172 crore detected on February 1 included searches carried out at Puttur, Chikkamagaluru, Karkala, Udupi, Mangaluru and Bengaluru.
 
 The Mangaluru unit of the directorate also came across an instance of admission of Rs 101 crore in June last, he said.
 
  The final figure of undisclosed income will definitely be much higher as the post search investigation is under way and will be concluded in two to three months, he said adding the Rs 4,300 crore is more than double the amount so detected in last fiscal. With the deadline for   (PMGKY) that commenced on December 17, 2016, ending on March 31, Balakrishnan urged people with undisclosed income to make full use of the same. 
 
 “This will save people from hassles of needless penalty, prosecution that IT department will unleash on people with the unaccounted money,” he said. An exact fix on the amount is likely to be declared and could be known only after the March 31 deadline ends.
 
 Pointing that centrally the IT department has issued notices to 18 lakh people who made high value deposits post November 8 and around 8 lakh have responded to notices, Balakrishnan said the responses are being collated and verified. “If the response is found unsatisfactory, we will proceed against such persons,” he said, adding the cases will be handed over to the field units headed by principal commissioners (income tax) to take the cases to their logical end. On the investigation front, Balakrishnan said the directorate has filed around 160-odd cases over the last two to three years. 
 
 “Given the backlog of cases and even   taking a stringent view on black money, we will request the Chief   to set up special courts to deal with the pending cases,” he said. 
 
 Kishore Kumar Vyawahare, principal director of IT (Inv), Narottam Mishra, principal commissioner (IT) and others were present.
 
