NEW DELHI: It's been over a day since   opened its centralised online registration for admissions. But in a first since DU went online in 2012-13, not a single applicant could complete the registration in the initial 24 hours — thanks to inactive tabs, confusion over course details and inadequate information.

 Till the filing of this report, a basic requirement for registration — the 'information bulletin' — wasn't available, forcing aspirants to attend 'open day' sessions for rudimentary information. In past years, the bulletin was uploaded a day in advance. Candidates were able to create an account on the admission portal. However, beyond submitting personal details, bank account details and choice of course and extracurricular activities, there was little else they could do except wait for the portal to be fully functional.
 
 However, Maharaja K Pandit, chairperson of DU's admission committee, said 15,000 registrations had taken place so far. Asked if these candidates had completed the registration process and paid the fee, he said: “The aspirants have created the accounts. Since the academic details section is not activated, the process cannot be completed.“
 
 A registration process is said to be complete when a candidate fills the form and pays the registration fee. So far, five of the nine sections in payment options were not accessible. All a candidate was allowed to do was to create an account.
 
 If a candidate doesn't fill Tab 2 (academic details, which wasn't activated), Tab 7 (mandatory uploads) cannot be completed. The sports tab (those seeking admission under sports category) was also not activated.
 
 There were other glitches, adding to the confusion. For instance, in Tab 3 (course selection), courses 10 and 11 under the column arts/humanities/social science courses were BA (H) Hindi journalism and BA (H) Hindi patrakarita, which is the same course. While selecting courses, clicking on the `i' button for more information prompted users to consult `List A' in the information bulletin, which was yet to be made available.“We will make the bulletin available in a day or two,“ said Pandit.
 
 The major problem, however, was the inactive academic details section, with out which registration cannot be completed. DU authorities said the section had not been opened because the Delhi high court case was hearing a case on moderation of marks by CBSE. The court pronounced its verdict on Tuesday .
 
 Keeping the section inactive was also holding back candidate of other boards whose results have been declared.
 
 Some DU officials too voiced concern over the inactive sections on the website.“What has DU got to do with moderation in CBSE marking?
 But somehow the admission committee seems to be more concerned about moderation of marks rather than making its own systems work,“ said a senior DU official.
 
