NEW DELHI: The much-awaited   order redefining the boundaries of 272 municipal wards has been notified. The state election commission released the order on Tuesday -- published as a gazette notification -- setting the ball rolling for the upcoming civic elections likely to be held in April.

 The delimitation signals a change not only in the contours of the municipal wards, and their population, but also in the political fortunes of  . This paves the way for pre-election preparations to be carried out by the state election commission, in consultation with the three corporations.
 
 The municipal polls are significant this time as a major third party, AAP, will be contesting for the first time while the ruling party, BJP, fights to retain its turf even as Congress tries to regain lost ground. 
 
 The number of municipal wards remain at 272 but there is a major change from the current configuration of four wards per assembly constituency to three in many, and seven in one. The average population of each ward has been revised to 60,000 voters based on the 2011 census.
 
 The ward framework across 16 assembly constituencies in the area of   has undergone minor changes as the number of wards has changed only in two. The remaining 14 continue to have four wards though their contours and population have been remapped. The number of wards in Gandhi Nagar constituency has been reduced to three and a new ward has been added in Karawal Nagar constituency, making it the only five-ward contituency in east Delhi. 
 
 In the area under the  , the number of constituencies which now have three wards instead of four earlier are 11 (out of 26 assembly consitutencies). In the area looked after by  , there are now nine assembly constituencies with three wards each (out of 26 constituencies).
 
 Political parties will face a major challenge in the constituencies where the number of wards has gone down from existing four to three as they will have to reorganize their entire block-wise structure.
 
 Matiala in south is the only constituency in the city which will have seven wards (four now). This means equal distribution of resources and fair allocation of budget, said municipal officials.
 
 Sources in the corporation claimed that the configuration of the new wards after delimitation will definitely impact ticket allocation. As the number of wards in urban areas like Greater Kailash, Kalkaji, Kasturba Nagar, Malviya Nagar, Hari Nagar, Tilak Nagar and Jangpura have decreased whereas the number of wards in semi-urban and some unauthorized colony areas, such as Uttam Nagar, Matiala, Bijwasan, Deoli, Badarpur and Okhla, have increased, ticket allocation will benefit candidates from rural and semi-urban areas. 
 
 Delhi state election commissioner SK Srivastava held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the road ahead. Reservation of 50% seats for women candidates and 33% for SC/ST candidates and reassigning of polling booths along with demarcation of new boundaries using maps will now be carried out.
 
 The first draft delimitation report was put up on the Delhi government website in September and objections and suggestions were invited. The draft underwent further changes after 750 objections raised by elected representatives and RWAs were considered. The state election commission sent the final draft to the chief secretary in the third week of November.
 
