Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday announced ex-gratia payment of Rs2 lakh to the next of kin of farmers and labourers who died due to pesticide inhalation while spraying crops in Yavatmal district over the last few weeks. An inquiry has also been ordered into the matter under the assistant chief secretary (home). Eighteen farmers have been killed due to inhalation of profefonos, a pesticide used on cotton, which is the main crop of the district, also known for the highest number of farmers’ suicides. The CM also announced that the government will run an awareness campaign on safe use of pesticides, and distribute free masks. Farmers’ organizations and some victims’ kin, whom TOI spoke to, said the compensation is too less. Some of them said it does not match the Rs10 lakh given to those who died in the recent Mumbai stampede. The ACS probe will look into why the whole episode was kept under wraps by all concerned departments. Even as there was a rapid increase in deaths, with hospitals swelling with patients, the matter was not reported to the higher levels in the government. The matter came to light only after the story was reported in the media, said a source. The matter was reported neither by government hospital authorities, district administration, agriculture department or even the farmers’ rights activists. There was no reporting from the official channel despite this happening in the farmers’ crisis-hit Yavatmal district. Now, the district civil surgeon has been directed to submit blood samples and post mortem reports of all the deceased to the collector for scrutiny in the ACS probe. Besides the 18 deaths, 467 affected people have been admitted in government hospitals. This is not a small number even in the normal course, and unnatural deaths have to be reported to the administration. But, in Yavatmal, no alarm was raised from any quarters till the toll had increased significantly. The phenomenon was being reported since July but the matter came to fore only by September-end, said a source privy to the government decisions following the deaths. The district administration has also been asked to appeal to the kin of those undergoing treatment to present bills of drugs or tests done from private outlets. Since almost all victims are undergoing treatment at government hospitals, only some of the other expenses may need to be reimbursed. However, a decision on whether to reimburse these expenses is yet to be taken, a government source said. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swawalamban Mission (VNSSM), the state government think tank on farmers, said the amount announced as compensation is too less. Sujata Perkhewar, daughter of Pahapal village’s Vithal Perkhewar, who died due to pesticide spray, said the amount can hardly cover their expenses. “A lot had been spent for his treatment. I am married and my brother is young. Father was the only bread winner in the family,” she said. A group of villagers from Kalamb tehsil of the district had submitted a memorandum to the collector on Tuesday seeking Rs10 lakh as compensation for the kin of the deceased. “Why should the government discriminate between those who died in Mumbai and Yavatmal? Even here people died while working to earn their livelihood,” said Nitin Khadse of Jalka village in the district.