 (SHAJAPUR): At least 10 persons, including five women, sustained injuries on Tuesday in a low-intensity blast inside the general coach of Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train at   station in Shajapur district of Madhya Pradesh, around 150 km from Ujjain.

 Police have detained five persons and suspect that they are members of radical groups, but were yet to identify the outfit. The source of the blasts were some bags which investigators suspect were being used to carry explosives by a ‘courier boy’, who was also injured in the process.
 
 Inspector general of police (Ujjain range) Madhu Kumar told TOI: “We suspect the involvement of some anti-social elements in the blast. Different agencies, including Intelligence agencies, are examining the bogie.”
 
 The explosion took place at around 9.50 am in the general bogie, adjacent to the guard coach of passenger train no. 59320 from Bhopal to Ujjain, a few minutes after it crossed Kalapipal railway station, Ratlam division railway officials said.
 
 Eyewitnesses claimed that the bags were kept on the luggage stand of side seats. The force of the blast damaged a portion of the coach, inflicting injuries on the passengers. The blast covered the compartment with a white-powdery substance with shrapnel digging into its walls.
 
 As the train came to a stop, people panicked and jumped out seeing smoke coming out from a coach. “The blast was deafening. The entire compartment was filled with smoke and people were screaming and shouting,” said Jiya Kushwah, one of the victims who sustained shrapnel injuries in her stomach and lost a finger in the blast. “I was facing the bag and saw it explode into flames,” she said.
 
 The injured were helped out of the train by passengers themselves. Medical teams reached the spot and gave them primary aid. A relief train with rescue officials and doctors from Bhopal was dispatched to the spot.
 
 The passenger train was taken to Kalapipal station, while the damaged coach was left at Jabri station for forensic examination.
 
 “Investigation is on. No casualties have been reported, but around 10 persons have been injured in the incident. Two of them were referred to Bhopal and the rest are at Civil Hospital in Kalapipal,” said government railway police SP D Krishna Veni.
 
 An official statement from the hospital identified the injured as Bharti Yadav (18), Jeeya Kushwah (27),   (45) and Neha Yadav (17) – all residents of Sehore. Others were: Sayyad Atar Hussain (55) of Sarangpur, Babulal Prasad Malviya (45) of Pipaliya Nagar, Amritlal Sahu (40) of Rajgarh and Renuka Verma (35), Wasim Khan (25), Jaleel Khan (35) – all from Bhopal.
 
 Investigators later detained the ‘courier boy’, whose name was not disclosed. Acting on information from him, four others providing support for transporting the explosives were caught at a toll collection booth in Piparia.
 
 The accused gave vital clues about their allegedly Pakistan-sponsored support group – an information that was shared with the UP police. The police in Lucknow cornered one of the suspects, leading to a fierce gun battle.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered high-level probe into the train blast.
 
