JAIPUR: On the lines of   (JDA), the   (JMC) will set up open gyms in parks of the city. 

 An open gym was inaugurated at   in Raja Park area on Saturday.
 
 The JMC, which drew flaks from different quarters after Jaipur failed to feature in top 100 cities of the country in a survey conducted under  , has decided to open gyms in parks aiming to keep people fit and healthy. 
 
 Now, morning walkers in the Shahid Bhagat Singh Park will be able to some workout at the open gym, which is free for all. 
 
 A gym enthusiast, Anita Sharma said, “The gym at the park is really beneficial for our health. We were only doing brisk walking now we will be able to burn more fats as an open gym has come up in the park.”
 
 The new gym has come as a shot in the arm for morning walkers. There are a lot of health enthusiasts, who never misses their routine of coming to the park for walking. 
 
 “I started coming to the park for past two-three months. It is really good to have a gym for free here. We have to shell out a hefty amount for using equipment in gyms but here we can work out for free. It is because of the hefty fees of gyms, I have not joined any of such gyms but here it is now available for all without any fee,” Ravi Kumar said. 
 
 On the first day, the health enthusiasts were seen doing cardio exercise using the new equipment installed at the gym. The JMC has installed nine different kinds of equipments. The equipments can be used by people irrespective of their age. The machines are surf board, sky walker, sit-up board, rover, leg press, chest press, shoulder builder, sitting twister and air walker for excercises for strenghtening of muscles of legs, shoulders, chest and wrist.
 
 Mayor Ashok Lahoti said that such open gyms will be installed at different parks of the city. 
 
 Adarsh Nagar MLA Ashok Parnami said people have become more aware about their health. Installing such gyms in the park is a good initiative. 
 
 It was the JDA which took the initiative more than a year ago for installing an open gym at Central Park. Officials said that JMC will install more gyms from next year. 
 
