Usually, children of popular parents tend to follow in their footsteps. And while   has chosen a career in music, like her parents L Subramaniam and  , she is walking down a path that she has created for herself. She and her brother,  , are SubraMania ' a fusion band that creates contemporary world music. A year after their first release, Days in the Sun, comes their second,  . Bindu spoke to us more about the song, working with her brother and living in her parents' shadow. Excerpts'

 
 
 When we started SubraMania, it was a space to experiment with different things. Earlier last year, we were invited by the Spanish government to celebrate 60 years of   and India's continued diplomatic relationship. During the tour, we collaborated with flamenco artiste,  , and this served as an inspiration to come back and create Esperanza. What inspired us about that country is how the people behaved; they were very open and warm. They are a lot like Indians, actually.
 
 
 
 Yes, they were. But it wasn't an easy decisions for me to make because I am a lyricist. If Ambi had it his way, he wouldn't want words in any of our songs (laughs). With this song, we felt that using a voice without words would be an interesting way to blend the prominence of the instruments; when you have words, you have to push the voice to the middle, which can be distracting. But with this song, I had the liberty to come in and go out with my vocals. Also, the song becomes more universal without any words.
 
 
 
 I don't know if that is the case. Days in the Sun was different ' it was essentially a sad song, so people told us their personal stories that they connected with when they heard the song. Esperanza is about hope; it's more celebratory in that sense. So, I don't know if people have responded more to this song than the previous one. It's just that it has been different.
 
 
  
 
 
 I know this sounds a little too perfect to say, but we have a good working relationship. This is because we are different and don't step on each other's toes. Ambi doesn't write lyrics; for me, the structure is more pop, and for him it's more in terms of the lines the instruments play. If we were both doing the same things, then perhaps our working relationship may not be this good. Also, there are no ego hassles ' we go with whoever feels more strongly about a particular element. Having said that, we tend to appreciate a lot of the same things.
 
 
 
 No, actually. I am very fortunate that I have supportive parents. When it comes to SAPA ( ), Ambi and I are aware that we are dealing with their legacy, but we have complete ownership over it. Around 5-10 years ago, people used to ask me what the hell I was doing singing in English, but I never had to face the issue of being in their shadow; it's just that people thought I was doing something random that I should not be doing (singing in English). But I am now being recognized as doing something different from my parents, which is good.
 
 
 
 Sometimes, it's a little painful, because you get judged very harshly. People assume that we have access to certain concerts and get certain preferences, but that is not true. If your music doesn't resonate, then there is nothing that will force people to buy tickets to your concerts; it doesn't matter who you are.
 
 
 
 No, we are at a position now where we find such things amusing. We have to respect other people's opinions, but we don't have to take it to heart.
 
 
 
 We have two songs with SubraMania that are ready and are not sure which one to release first. One is a soft number, while the other has more aggressive fusion beats.
 
 
  
 
 
 Mahati thinks that she's a song writer already (laughs). She sings and plays the violin, and has been on the shows at SAPA, so she has got that exposure. But I think that my dad is much more likely to collaborate with her at this juncture.
 
 
 
 I follow two principals in life ' to multi-task and work in a team. I have been fortunate to be around people who support what I do, so that I don't have to micro-manage everything. My daughter has seen the travelling since she was born, so she's used to it. Sanjeev (Nayak, her husband and   violinist) is great. He is used to travelling and has his full-time job as well. Because of the family support, I get to do some many things that I love. I can jump from being on stage and singing angry songs, to teaching nursery rhymes, to doing PhD research. It's exhausting, but interesting.
 
