NEW DELHI: A day after a junior advocate accused senior advocates of breaking queue and tradition to seek early listing of cases, Chief Justice   assuaged their feelings on Wednesday by barring senior advocates from making request for ‘out of turn’ hearing of their petitions. TOI’s Wednesday edition carried a report on advocate P V Dinesh pouring out the angst of junior advocates who stand in long queue for nearly hours without getting chance to mention their cases as senior advocates steal a march over them by breaking the queue and making mention before the CJI for early listing of their petitions.

 The queue for mentioning in the CJI’s courtroom on Wednesday was as usual long with senior advocates leaving juniors to wait anxiously, wondering whether they would get a chance to place request for early hearing of petitions filed by them. When the bench headed by the CJI assembled, there were four senior advocates at the head of the queue ready for starting the mentioning ritual.
 
 But a surprise awaited them. Justice Misra announced that henceforth only advocates-on-record would be eligible for mentioning before the CJI for early listing of petitions for hearing. To dispel looks of disbelief writ on the faces of senior advocates, the CJI announced his decision a little louder for the second time.
 
 With the message driven in, the long queue melted fast into a sparse crowd of advocates-on-record, a special class of lawyers who pass a tough examination conducted by the   to earn the distinction of being advocates through whom alone petitions could be filed in the apex court. The mentioning ritual was over in 15 minutes and the bench commenced hearing of petitions as scheduled. 
 
 Given the benevolent and accommodative nature of the CJI, requests for early listing were numerous leading to swelling of the number of listed cases to almost 100 on Mondays and Fridays, when the   takes up fresh petitions for scrutiny. On Wednesday, the CJI was seen rejecting early hearing requests to display a streak that the advocates experienced during his predecessor J S Khehar’s tenure as CJI.
 
 Earlier, two CJIs had informally asked senior advocates not to participate in the mentioning rituals to give chance to the junior advocates to hone their skills and earn their living.
 
 
