TRICHY:   MP Dr   took strong exception to   ( ) governor Urjith Patel’s remark pertaining to the ‘likely’ economic consequences of waiving farmers’ crop loans, on Friday. Citing the almost negligent increase of procurement price for paddy annually, Anbumani said that farmers would not have sought out loans if they had been paid the correct price for their produce.

 Terming Patel’s statement as crude, the former   health minister said that the RBI governor has no understanding of the ordeal that Indian farmers are going through. “Without understanding the untold miseries of farmers in India, particularly in  , the RBI governor is of the view that the assistance to farmers is of no use,” said Anbumani in his statement released on Friday.
 
 Urjith had stated that the election promises made by political parties to waive crop loans should be revoked since it would have a negative impact on the economy.
 
 Stating that the low price for their produce was the reason farmers were in dire straits, Anbumani said, “Farmers would not expect benefits if the government ensured a proper price for their produce. The recommendation made by M S Swaminathan to fix the procurement price at 50% more than the production cost has not been implemented so far”.
 
 Quoting the valuation of Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore, Anbumani had recommended Rs2324 for one quintal of paddy and Rs3675 for one tonne of sugarcane. However, he said, that the government set the prices at Rs1310 per quintal of paddy and Rs2100 per tonne of sugarcane. These prices are lower than the production cost, he said.
 
 Anbumani questioned how nationalized banks would deal with the bad debts caused by corporate companies. As of December 2016, this liabality stood at Rs6.14lakh crore. “In an attempt to manage these bad debts, banks are taxing farmers,” he said. Thus, the asked the Centre not to consider any suggestions made by the RBI governor, regarding issues pertaining to farmers.
 
 “Urjith Patel got a 280 % hike in salary. Such people cannot understand the difficulties faced by farmers who get only 3 % increase in procurement price every year,” said Anbumani. 
 
