KOLKATA: Scholars of the   and   have found striking similarities between   in the  

 The British Academy has just renewed a unique project, started in 2013 by John Reuben Davies and his team (Dauvit Broun, Katherine Forsyth, Sìm Innes and Joanna Tucker) from the University of Glasgow's Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies in the   and CU historians Suchandra Ghosh, Swapna Bhattacharya, Sayantini Paul and Rajat Sanyal.
 
 The Scottish and Bengali scholars, with a combined knowledge of Sanskrit and Latin, and an understanding of the charter-form, have found that the two early me dieval societies, 6,000 miles apart, evolved a similar way of recording property transfer, using directly related vocabulary and philosophical concepts.
 
 “Striking parallels exist between Sanskrit records of property transfer from early medieval Bengal and contemporaneous Latin charters from Europe even as neither regions had any known con temporary connection or influence,“ said Davies, who is in town to attend a workshop on the research project at the Indian Museum.
 
 Charters are the largest category of historical source in Europe. Bengal's early medieval history also relies heavily on tamralipta (copperplate inscriptions). “There's compelling similarities not only of form and content, but of more profound legal and philosophical approaches to kingship, land, and the ownership of property ,“ said Davies, a specialist in the European Latin charter.
 
 The language is also closely related. “In Sanskrit, the word for the method of giving is `da na'. In Latin, the same Indo-European root provides the noun `do num' (gift), and verb `do no' (I give). The concept of transferring ownership uses a word which has the same origin in Sanskrit and Latin, at the heart of the property records both from Bengal and Scotland or some of the other European countries,“ Davies said.
 
 The research hinges on the Indo-European linguistic theory , fostered and promoted by the Asiatic Society , founded in 1784. “Unlike the Marxist school, our focus is on the document itself,“ said CU's Swapna Bhattacharya.
 
