GURUGRAM: Inspector Jasmer Singh, who was suspended for his alleged role in the  , was arrested by the special investigation team (SIT) in Rajiv Chowk on Friday evening. Jasmer, according to the SIT, had been evading arrest ever since the fake arms licence racket was unearthed last month. The officer, sources said, was nabbed by the SIT before he could surrender in a city court.

 Investigators said Jasmer played a major role in the scam and used the police machinery to issue fake arms licences. “The suspended inspector has already confessed that he was involved in the scam. We are interrogating Jasmer, who has been remanded in police custody by the court,”   Anil Yadav, who is heading the investigation team, said.
 
 Forty three-year-old Jasmer is a resident of Majra Dubaldhan village in Jhajjar. He had joined   around 22 years ago, and was shifted to Haryana Police on deputation later. He has been working in Gurugram for more than nine years and was in-charge of the arms licence branch from 2010 to 2015. 
 
 The SIT had arrested one more police officer, sub inspector Virender Singh, on March 2 for his alleged involvement in the scam.
 
 A series of investigations has revealed that whenever a new gun was launched in Europe or America, Jasmer would ensure the new model would be available with him in a few days. Prima facie, it appears Jasmer got the guns copied in illegal arms factories based in Khurja and Bulandshahr, and he used to sell them to customers in national capital region (NCR) for Rs 20-35 lakh.
 
 “The SIT is collecting evidences against the suspended inspector to prove his alleged role in the operation of the city-based gun house. He had been missing ever since a notice was served on him, asking him to join the investigation,” joint commissioner of police Sibas Kabiraj said.
 
 A probe by Kabiraj had revealed that some officials at the joint commissioner’s office were hand-in-glove with agents and other departments and issued fake arms licences. Four police officers — inspector Jasmer Singh, former in-charge of the arms licence branch; sub inspector Virender Singh, in-charge of the branch now, joint CP’s reader ASI Vikas and head constable Mahesh — were suspended following the investigation by Kabiraj.
 
 Scam kingpin Bhardwaj, according to sources, had revealed that he paid Rs 50,000-1 lakh per licence to both Jasmer and Virender when they were in-charges of the branch. He also claimed that the four police officers received their “shares” after a licence was issued.
 
 With the arrest of Jasmer, police said, as many as seven accused have been arrested for their alleged role in the scam. Two more cops are still on the run and are yet to join the investigation yet.
 
 The investigators also interrogated inspector Jasmer’s brother Ved Prakash on Friday. Prakash is working as a driver with the  . “He is on medical leave now. An investigation has revealed his alleged involvement in the scam as he had purchased an illegal weapon from Bhardwaj and later sold it to a Lucknow resident for around Rs 2,70,000. He, however, claimed that he would produce the documentary evidence of the weapon soon. He was managing the gun house in Gurugram, which is in his father Ram Prasad’s name,” said an SIT officer. 
 
 The SIT has identified more than 10 gun houses in Haryana and one in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district, where kingpin Manish Bhardwaj alias Kala allegedly sold illegal weapons. 
 
 
