NOIDA: In an effort to put pressure on police, the   (VHP) has threatened to shut down all the shops which are cutting and selling meat or chicken on their premises with or without the licence/certificate. The demands from   activists to close such shops have already started reaching the chowki incharges and station house officers ( ) of Noida.

 The VHP has also threatened to unleash vigilante groups if the police failed to take action. According to VHP, even if the meat/chicken shops have a valid registration certificate from the district administration, they cannot cut the meat of already slaughtered animals on the premises.
 
 The shopkeepers, however, cited practical reasons for cutting the slaughtered animal and selling at their shops.
 
 While earlier the slaughter of animals went unchecked at most of the shops in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, the shopkeepers have now started buying already slaughtered chicken or goats from places like Ghazipur Mandi in Delhi or New Ashok Nagar.
 
 “We are against all those shops running illegally and those which are cutting the meat at the shop because as per the rules, nobody can cut the meat in the shop and can only sell pieces of meat which are already cut. We are regularly informing the local police stations about both roadside shops and those which are violating rules by cutting the meat at their shops,” Umanandan Kaushik, district president, VHP, told TOI. He claimed that if the police do not shut down the shops in the next two days, they will themselves ensure that they are shut.
 
 He said that on Sunday his outfit had already informed police about 20 roadside shops selling chicken/meat in Mamura.
 
 In Sadarpur village in Sector 46, a meat shop owner having a valid registration certificate from the district administration said that on Friday, a group of VHP activists led by one Sumit Sharma asked him to shut down the shop because he was slaughtering and selling chicken and mutton in the premises.
 
 The owner, Danish Khan, said that he had to shut down his shop for a day as the activists asked him to do so.
 
 SSP Dharmendra Yadav said that all those meat shops which are running without a certificate from the administration will be shut down.
 
 “Information can come from anywhere. However, if someone has a valid licence, he/she will not be harassed unnecessarily and would be allowed to work. If someone targets even those having licence, the police will take action against the person for disturbing law and order as directed by the chief minister,” he said.
 
 
