DARJEELING: Trouble erupted in Mirik, nearly 58km from Darjeeling, on Monday with   (GJM) supporters and Trinamool Congress workers attacking each other with khukris on the streets.Two persons, one each from the GJM and Trinamool, were hospitalised with deep cut injuries. Till late in the evening, GJM supporters laid siege on Mirik police station against the arrest of a comrade over a past case.
GJM supporters claimed that the police opened fire at them -which the cops denied -and used teargas to the cops denied -and us disperse the mob.
 
 A police kiosk near the Mirik Lake was also set ablaze. In Mirik's Ward 2, o demonstrators marched to the house a of Trinamool leader Punam Biswa f and demanded that he resign from the h party. Sources also claimed that six o Trinamool councillors of the   are likely to resign from the party . Bandh supporters also torched an abandoned office and quarter of the electricity department in Bijanbari's Lower Relling in the afternoon.
 
 “The situation is under control so far. There have been sporadic incidents of destruction and vandalism of public property in the area. Patrolling is on to avoid untoward incidents,“ said Darjeeling police superintendent Akhilesh Kumar Chaturvedi.
 
 GJM, meanwhile, issued an ultimatum to state government employees, asking them to stay away from work at the district magistrate's office. While nearly all government offi ces in the Hills have been closed down by bandh supporters over the last 32 days, they haven't been able to do much about those reporting for work at the DM's office due to the heavy security around the complex on  .
 
 “People have come out on the stre ets demanding a separate state. Many w innocent people have been killed in g police firing. But there are some gok vernment employees who are quietly t reporting to duty at the DM's office. l They are even getting rations and a other food stock while people are gol ing hungry . This is not done. Our fight s is against the state government and v we want to destabilize functions of all government offices,“ Tilak Chand Roka, the GJM's legal adviser and central committee member, said in a public address at Chowkbazar in the heart of Darjeeling. Before this, Gorkhaland supporters demonstrated and shouted slogans against the state government outside the main gate of the DM's office.
 
 Roka said the party would wait for two days, after which posters would be put up against state government employees defying the diktat and reporting for work. “We will also identify the government employees and gherao their houses for 10-15 minutes,“ Roka added. The police feel this may lead to further violence.
 
 Even as pro-Gorkhaland supporters demonstrated outside the DM's office, senior police officers present there asked leaders present to speak to DM  . She refused to meet them at her chamber and strode out to the main gate to speak to them. The GJM leadership took offence at this. “We didn't want to meet the DM. It was a senior police officer who made the request. The DM could have met us in her chamber but she came to the gate instead. Are we beggars?“ Roka said. The Gorkhaland Movement Coordination Committee will hold its next meeting in   on Tuesday to decide the next course of action.
 
 
 
