NOIDA: Sector 51 RWA have requested cancellation of a proposed   at plot no. C-7 of sector-51 as remaining space becomes very less for the under construction  . Also, there are three more Mother Dairy booths which are already functional in the vicinity.

 In a letter written to deputy CEO   with a copy to   and project engineer, CCD-3 (work circle 3) the sector RWA has sought cancellation of the under construction Mother Dairy booth at plot no. C-7 of sector 51.
 
 According to Sanjeev Kumar RWA general secretary sector 51, plot no. C-7 of sector 51 is meant for construction of community centre as per the original sanction plan of Noida Authority for this sector. “This plot is 0.1943 hectare (1943 sq. meter) and to construct the community centre, a sanction plan was issued in 2013 for execution of the work through CCD-3 (work circle 3), division of Noida Authority. As per that approved plan, a double story building was sanctioned,” said Kumar.
 
 Kumar further goes on that the sector RWA vide its letter dated Dec 22, 2013 had also requested the construction of a basement parking for the community centre “because the plot area is small and nearby area being commercial, required a dedicated parking space. This RWA had been in regular touch with CCD-3 since then, but no progress was made for construction of community centre till earlier this month,” said Kumar.
 
 Now since last one week, the sector RWA noticed construction activities on the said plot. “On visiting the site we were told that the construction work for a Mother Dairy booth is underway in the area. We have therefore written to authority CEO and work circle 3 on Thursday requesting its cancellation as there are already three Mother Dairy booths namely - one in block A, second in Kendriya Vihar (sector 51) and a third in sector 50, near Jain temple which is just opposite to Kendriya Vihar Mother Dairy booth,” said Kumar adding that within a span of 1.5 kms there are three Mother Dairy booths between sectors 50 and 51 which is merely separated by an 18 metre wide road. “So there’s no logic to have yet another, a fourth Mother Dairy booth in the area,” said Kumar.
 
 According to the sector RWA the said Mother Dairy booth was originally sanctioned on plot no H-51 of sector-51 but the Mother Dairy did not approve that site. “Thereafter, we were assured by Noida Authority that the booth will be constructed on plot no E-1 of sector-51. But this plot (E-1/51) has been handed over for construction of metro stations. Hence, the booth got shifted to plot No C 7 of sector 51.
 
 But residents oppose its construction now because of already existing three Mother Dairy booths in the vicinity and instead demand a bigger community centre. “Hence, we request for its cancellation. Also, if still constructed, the available area for the construction of community centre will be drastically reduced and that is more a requirement now along with space for basement parking given the already existing booths in the area,” said Kumar who’s now awaiting response from the authority on the matter.
 
