PATNA: The residents of   in Phulwarisharif went on the rampage after one Chandan Kumar (20) was murdered allegdly by   on Sunday. Chandan had been continuously opposing rampant liquor smuggling in his locality.

 His body was found in a canal near the colony by his family members an hour after he had left home. The residents blocked the main road at Khagaul Lukh for almost eight hours. They also damaged some houses in Govindpur Musahari. The locals also pelted the police party with stones. Police had to fire two rounds in the air to disperse the crowd. 
 
 Vivek Kumar, the cousin of the deceased, told TOI that Chandan had complained many times to Phulwarisharif police station about liquor smuggling leading to the arrest of a few persons from Govindpur Musahari. The smugglers used the colony road to transport liquor and sell it to customers near the canal. 
 
 “Just a few hundred metres away from home, four smugglers kidnapped Chandan and took him to Govindpur Musahari where he was beaten to death,” Vivek alleged and said, “An iron rod was pierced through his chest before the body was thrown into the canal near the colony.”
 
 He said the family got information as he was talking to someone over cellphone when the kidnapping took place. “The lifestyle of Govindpur Musahari residents has changed drastically after prohibition. They now own several costly sports bikes and police turn a blind eye to them,” Vivek said.
 
 Locals at Maurya Vihar alleged that a person named Vikas, who drives patrolling vehicle for Phulwarisharif police station, is also involved in the liquor smuggling with the residents of Govindpur Musahari. One Suresh Kumar alleged that policemen on patrol are often seen taking bribe from the liquor smugglers. 
 
 Earlier, on July 13, 2016, the then   and his raiding team had to run for cover after residents of Govindpur Musahari pelted the police team with stones. Two police personnel were also injured in the attack. 
 
 Phulwarisharif police station SHO   Kaisar said the murder took place due to a scuffle over cricket ball. “It has nothing to do with liquor smuggling,” the SHO said. 
 
 However, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj removed the SHO in the afternoon. He was asked to report to the police lines. 
 
 
