Consumers in Nashik are increasingly becoming aware of their rights. Statistics available with the district   forum indicate that the number of cases registered by aggrieved consumers has gone up significantly in the last two years — from 455 in 2015 to 728 in 2016. 

 Forum officials maintained that the increasing awareness is leading the consumers to approach in case they are aggrieved with any product that they have purchased and did not ensure value for their hard-earned money.
 
 “During the last two years, the consumer   has helped several aggrieved consumers. This is not partisanship or going against the law, but using the clauses that are actually in favour of consumers. There are many instances when consumers are not aware of the laws that help them get justice,” said K S Shelke, a lawyer who contests consumer cases.
 
 To drive home his point, Shelke said there were several cases in which relatives of the farmers killed in accidents have been denied claims by insurance companies. 
 
 “The companies often claim that these farmers either had no driving licences or cited medical certificates claiming that they were intoxicated while driving. The forum got to the roots of the accidents, in which negligent and drunk driving or being on the wheel without licences didn’t matter. This prompted the kin of the farmers to register cases with the forum and get justice,” he said.
 
 Citing another major case, another lawyer said a consumer had kept his valuables in the locker of the Nashik District Central Cooperative Bank’s Niphad branch. The locker was broke open and the valuables of all the complainants had been lost. While their claims were refuted by the bank, the forum went beyond the obvious and held the bank responsible for not maintaining proper security at the vaults and the lack of closed circuit television cameras.
 
 “Since the bank was responsible, it was was asked to pay Rs 1.64 crore for 6,667 gm of ornaments belonging to 29 customers,” consumer lawyer SR Jadhav said.
 
 Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Parishad’s Nashik unit chief Major (Vet) P M Bhagat lauded the functioning of the forum as far as ensuring justice to consumers were concerned. “The forum not only ensures relief for most consumers, but has also sees to it that relevant sections of the Consumer Protection Act were upheld while delivering verdicts,” he said.
 
 A functionary of the Nashik Zilla Grahak Panchayat, Vilas Deole, recalled that between 2008 and 2011, a sizeable section of consumers lost their legal battle in the forum. “But gradually, an increasing number of consumers has been getting justice. This prompted other aggrieved consumers to move the forum. This is the only platform where consumers are provided with compensation even for harassment cases,” he said. 
 
 City-based consumers most miffed with insurance companies: Of the total complaints lodged with the district consumer forum in a year, 40% of the grievances are targeted at the insurance companies, housing societies and a section of builders and developers 
 
 In 2016, as many as 728 cases were registered with the forum. The maximum cases were against at insurance companies (196), followed by builders and housing societies (98 each).
 
 “There is a rising trend in the number of cases against various insurance companies. The number has shot up from 102 in 2015 to 196 in 2016. The rising awareness among masses is leading to the rise in numbers of cases against insurance companies. Add to the fact that the people are getting justice from consumer forum,” an officer of the forum said.
 
 As far as insurance grievances are concerned, most cases are related to the kin of policy holders in case they are denied claims. Similarly, there are cases related to non-life covers such as vehicle and medical insurances. Besides, there is a steep rise in the numbers of complaints against builders and developers and housing societies . 
 
 “The consumers are approaching the forum, seeking guidance on how to register cases. Many are unhappy with the builders not delivering properties on time or are short of promised amenities,” consumer lawyer Sanjeev Patil said.
 
 “If the forum plays a proactive role in creating more awareness among consumers about their rights, we are sure that the number of cases will rise further. Just as the district court and bar association carry out legal awareness camps in rural areas, the consumer department of the state government and the forum can organise such programmes,” said Vilas Deole of the Nashik Zilla Grahak Panchayat.
 
