NEW DELHI: Alappuzha in Kerala is a “waste smart” city according to recent assessment by a   ( ) team. Reason? It has managed to achieve 100% waste segregation in 12 of the city’s 23 wards. It doesn’t landfill, instead a majority of the households have biogas plants and composting systems. But as per the Centre’s recent Swachch   survey 2017, Alappuzha ranks at 380.

 The top three “cleanest” cities according to the Swachch survey—Indore, Bhopal and Visakhapatnam, have a centralized system of waste management. 
 
 While these do have door-to-door waste collection and efficient transportation of waste, CSE points out that all three cities do not segregate waste at source and finally resort to landfilling. Very little waste is processed at source. The best practice in contrast, the world over is to segregate, recycle and process waste at source in a decentralized manner and minimize dumping. In fact, The MSW Rules, 2016 clearly state that waste needs to be segregated into three categories at the household level – wet, dry and domestic hazardous waste. Then, are the cleanest cities as per the Centre’s survey really clean?
 
 “What becomes clear is that the states that have pushed for a centralised approach towards waste management – Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh – have been given high rankings in the Survekshan results. Of the top 50 cities, 31 cities are in these three states. All these cities are pushing for cluster-based waste management approach using waste to energy plants and landfills for processing and dumping of waste,” says a critique by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). At the heart of the problem is the way Centre evaluates “clean” cities, say experts. 
 
 No weightage has been given to waste segregation at source or decentralized management of waste. In fact, 40% of the points go to sweeping, collection and transportation of municipal solid waste, 20% to processing and disposal. No weightage has been given to decentralized waste management, effort to reduce dumping, recycling and reuse. Experts highlighted that there is a major stress on waste to energy plants too as many cities have started adopting it as an easy solution to deal with unsegregated waste.
 
 A senior official at the  , told TOI that “most cities were not moving towards decentralized waste management which is why we didn’t consider it as a parameter. It’s not very well regulated in cities. But now we have decided that segregation and management of waste at source needs to be given weightage. In mega cities, composting or recycling is not an option yet…”
 
  
  
 
 A similar example is of Panjim, which has virtually become “bin-free.” It has a colour-coded five category waste segregation system instead. 
 
 According to CSE’s documentation, waste is collected door-to-door, the generators of waste have to follow a five-way segregation system where they segregate it to wet waste, plastics, papers, cartons, glass and metals and non-recyclable materials. Wet waste is composted at decentralised compost pits in colonies. There are around 70 composting units in the city. Dry waste is brought to sorting centres, where it is sorted, the non-recyclable wastes are compressed into small bales and delivered to cement plants in Karnataka. But Panjim has been ranked at 90, despite its decentralization efforts. 
 
 “Now there are   guidelines that clearly lay down that there has to be segregation at source, composting, recycling and reuse of whatever is possible. The survey was conducted by a third party, they started the evaluation process before the NGT guidelines came into place and didn’t incorporate these. They definitely need to be incorporated,” said Shyamala Mani, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA).
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
