KOLKATA: Two days after the  , the   launched an   and urged employees to be more communicative and vigilant. Even as female staff members refused to resume duty on the hospital’s ground-floor, the authorities felt sharper screening of those allowed to enter might have prevented the fracas on Wednesday that led to the hospital being ransacked. Doctors and nurses at the hospital have called for a permanent police posting. 

 Trouble had broken out at the hospital following the death of a 16-year-old girl whose family alleged negligence. On Thursday, three were arrested for being involved in the vandalism.
 
 On Friday, CMRI authorities counselled nurses and female employees to resume duty. While a section of nurses returned to work at the ground floor’s emergency department, those posted at the desks and receptions stayed away. According to hospital sources, they felt insecure and were reluctant to work. 
 
 The authorities, on the other hand, pointed out flaws in the screening and security systems. They felt the vandalism might have been prevented had the trouble-makers been spotted early.
 
 While the hospital’s medical staff spelt out their difficulties, they were asked to be more proactive in communicating with patient parties. On their part, the staff and doctors have called for a permanent police posting at the hospital. It was not clear, though, if the hospital will seek the security. 
 
 A former CMRI official pointed out that communicating regularly and efficiently was very important for the hospital staff since it catered to a large number of patients who were not conversant with clinical practices. “This is not the first time such a thing has happened at  , nor will it be the last. Communicating with patients is the key. It seems there was a delay in taking the patient’s family into confidence, which sparked a violent reaction.” 
 
 While the number of admissions and surgeries was unchanged, outdoor patients dropped to half on Friday.
 
 According to police, the arrested trio — Rakesh Dhanuk, Jiauddin Sheikh and Sheikh Sonu — has given up names of a few others, from areas of Ekbalpore, Bhukailash Road, Mominpore, MM Ali Road and Remount Road, who were involved in the attack. Since Thursday night, police have raided multiple households, garages, clubs and under-construction buildings in the areas, but came up empty. 
 
