MUMBAI:  , or  , is set to get revolutionized. On Thursday , two madrassas in the country--Darul Uloom Ali Hasan Ahle Sunnat at Sakinaka and Madrassa Dairatul Islah-eChirag-e-Uloom in Varanasi--joined the modernization wave through the launch of virtual classrooms on their premises.

 Glued to a 70-inch television screen in Mumbai and Varanasi, the students-boys in kurtapyjama and skull cap, and girls in hijab--saw a tutor in suit and tie introducing them to the magic world of virtual learning.The visibly excited future maulvis and mualimmas (female madrassa teachers), didn't hide their glee when they learnt that this education will widen the scope of their entry into the mainstream job market. They can also look beyond becoming imams and preachers.
 
 Initiated by the movement Taleem-O-Tarbiyat of   (MANUU), Hyderabad, chancellor Zafar Sareshwala, in collaboration with Valuabale Edutainment, said such virtual classes will soon be started in eight more madrassas in the country .Following the Central Board of Secondary Education syllabus, here the team of trained teachers will hold lectures in maths, science and English of classes VIII, IX and X.
 
 “Without meddling in the affairs of madrassas, we are enabling them to join this technolo gical revolution in education. I want to see a maulvi who is also a good doctor or an engineer or an architect,“ said Sareshwala, a close aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Besides these subjects, students will learn craft and experts in different fields will be invited to guide them. Virtual classes in madrassas is realization of PM Modi's dream when he, reaching out to the Muslims during the 2014 Lok Sabha poll campaign, said that he wants to see Muslims hold a copy of the Holy Qu ran in one hand and a laptop in the other.“
 
 Initially being operated from a studio in Mumbai, Sareshwala said he would tap the vast infrastructure of MANUU to rope in more madrassas for the virtual classes. Sareshwala said he approached the Mumbai madrassa through activist Dr A R Anjaria who had initiated a resolution by dozens of clerics at the same madrassa against attacks on minorities in Bangladesh and Myanmar a year ago.
 
 “When Anjaria sahib told me about the proposed virtual classes, I felt this is what we were waiting for,“ said  's founder chairman Abul Hassan Khan. “There are not many jobs as imams, preachers and madrassa teachers. Madrassa students certainly need impetus to widen their horizon and improve their employability .“
 
 Mustaqeem Khan, a student at the Ahle Sunnat madrassa said, “I have never seen such a thing before. This education will help me give the 10th board exam and study further.“
 
 A girl student asked the tutor, Atiqur Rahman, how madrassa students who never went to a secular school would cope with the increased “burden“ of modern subjects like maths, science and English in addition to their religious subjects.
 
 To this, Rahman replied: “Before being introduced to these modern subjects, the students will be provided basic knowledge. You will also be shown videos to understand things better.“
 
 Anjaria said attempts will be made to help students who opt for virtual classes sit for class X board exam.
 
 “Many students can qualify to join BA, BCom and other courses after a bridge course at MANUU,“ said Sareshwala.
 
 “There is nothing wrong if madrassa students avail opportunities to empower themselves with modern knowledge,“ said Varanasi's chief Mufti (one who issues fatwas), Maulana Batin Noamani, who also attended the launch function on Thursday 
 
