It’s been 13 years since a Malayali won the National Award for the Best Actress. 

 While the State is celebrating   Lakshmi’s triumph at the national level, the actress herself says she has to pinch herself every now and then to believe that the accolades and adulation coming her way is real.
 With the innocence of the Class IV dropout Pathumma, that she plays in her popular TV series M80 Moosa, Surabhi tells us that the award is “like the little sweet achan used to give me whenever I felt low”. The actress, from Narikkuni in Kozhikode, has indeed come a long way and she shares her excitement and anxiety about winning the award and her future:
 
 
 
 Like anyone who gets an award unexpectedly, I also have no words to express my happiness. When I see the joy of people around me, I feel proud and content. But, to be frank, it is all yet to sink in. I can’t believe all the love and appreciation that has been showered on me for the past few days. I travelled to Salalah for a show on Friday morning as just Surabhi, Pathu of M80 Moosa, and by the time I crossed the sea and reached there, I became a National Award winner. My life changed in the blink of an eye. If I was a busy actress who travels from sets to sets, I think I would have been able to handle this easily. Now, my family and I are a bit confused.
 
  The moment I landed in Kerala on Sunday, I was able to sense that things are different. I am still wonderstruck and looking at the things happening around me with disbelief! In meetings, people introduce me with phrases such as ‘Narikkuniyude Rajakumari’, ‘Malayalathinte abhimaanam’, ‘thararani’…
 etc. I ask myself, ‘Seriously? Am I a Rajakumari now?’
 
 
 
 The character in Minnaminungu is my first lead role on the big screen. During the post-production phase, actor Prem Prakash sir watched the movie. He told me that I will definitely get an award for my performance in it. That in itself was a great appreciation for me. And on the previous day of the State awards, when the news scroll showed that I made it to the final list, I thought, ‘Enganum biriyani kittiyalo?’ But I didn’t feel bad when I wasn’t chosen the Best Actress. 
 
 Getting a Special Jury Mention by the State itself was a massive win for me. My friends and family were upset, but I told them, ‘This is just the beginning. I still have so many chances left.’ But I never thought my number would come this soon.
 
 
 
 Manojettan (Manoj Ramsing), the movie’s scriptwriter, gave me a handwritten script and told me to read it and let him know if I was interested. It was the first time I got a complete script in hand. I didn’t even understand what it was as he had divided it shot wise. I had a friend who explained to me the shot divisions and once I read the entire script, I loved the character. My character is nameless in the film; she is a representative of mothers whom I have been seeing since my childhood. I have seen them in buses, on the streets and also at my home. She is a mother, daughter and wife. She works hard to make ends meet and multitasks every day. I have often wondered where they get the energy and strength from to soldier on without any complaints.
 
 
 
 The relationship between the mother and the daughter, Rebecca, is the core of the film. It evolves when Rebecca hides from her mom that she is planning to migrate to Canada. For me, the initial two days was difficult. Then my observations helped me, and I saw my mother in me and myself in Rebecca. I think we all lie a bit to our mothers in spite of being aware that they know very well when we are lying.
 
 
 
 I was barely four years old when my dad took me to watch an annual street circus near my home in Kozhikode. When one of the circus artistes asked for someone among the audience to volunteer for an act, my dad told me to enact what they said. I was supposed to act as a visually-challenged girl for a song. I did as told and the circus performer gave me a packet of ground nuts and a slice of watermelon as ‘remuneration’. That was enough motivation for me to be part of plays during temple festivals. I began as little Sree Krishnan in Kamsavadham and have performed the childhood of all the gods.
 
 
 
 I won the third prize for Ottamthullal in the State Higher Secondary Youth Festival. It was soon after my father’s demise. We had no money and I had to perform without accompanists; so I had to settle for the third prize. The news was carried in all newspapers and it was one of the biggest turning points in my life. Filmmaker Jayaraj sir read about it and sent his wife, Sabitha chechi, to the venue to give us all the support. I won the first prize in mono act, was adjudged best actress and also bagged third prize in Kuchipudi. Jayaraj sir did not forget me. He cast me in his film, By The People, and that was my first role in a film. Joining the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, opened up the world of acting to me.
 
 
 
 I am not sure. Our agreement was for 350 episodes and in fact, the final episode was shot just before I left for Salalah. I think there are plans now to air one episode a week rather than five.
  After winning a National Award, actors such as Suraj Venjaramoodu and Salim Kumar found it tough to get back to comedy roles, which was their forte. 
 
 
 
 I am no one to be compared with Surajettan and Salim Kumar as they were established actors when they won the awards. I am a small-time actress who finds joy even when I get to do two-scene roles in films. So, I don’t think I will ever encounter that problem. I have been juggling serials, cinema and theatre all these years and all that I pray for right now is not to let the award be a barrier to those small roles I enjoy. I will be the same Pathu of M80 Moosa, an artiste who wants to give her best – putting quality ahead of the quantity of the roles she does.
 
  
 
  I have no clue. I know the accolades and appreciation of winning the National Awards will die down after a few weeks, after that if I don’t get any roles, I will struggle. I pray to God that doesn’t happen. I don’t want people to label me as a National Award-winning actress who will be choosy from now on. I am willing to do any role – big or small. I want to be flexible artiste; someone who can perform both comedy and serious roles at ease.
 
