BENGALURU: A man smuggling foreign currency worth Rs 1.14 crore was arrested moments before he boarded a flight to Bangkok at Kempegowda International Airport on Monday night. Officers said it was one of the biggest seizures of foreign currency at the airport. A few minutes earlier, another man boarding the same flight was caught with Rs 11 lakh in foreign currency .

 Department of revenue intelligence (DRI) officers said Abdul Rahim, 65, a  , was detained on the aerobridge just before he boarded at 11.55pm on Monday. DRI confiscated 1,200 pieces of foreign currency worth Rs 1.14 crore (Tuesday's rates), and officers are probing the role of insiders.Moments earlier, a man from Madurai was apprehended with Rs 11 lakh in foreign currency . Officers said the Bengaluru-Bangkok route has become hot one for hawala dealers and currency smugglers. Rahim was carrying 1,200 pieces of dollars, euros, riyals, Singapore dollars, dirhams and francs.
 
 “He has a small business in Jayanagar and his daughter lives in Bangkok. Initial investigation reveals that Rahim was a courier, whose flight tickets were booked in return for his services,“ a source said. “We pulled him off the aerobridge. The flight was scheduled for 11.45pm, but a delay of an incoming flight pushed the departure time to 11.52pm and it was further delayed. We caught him at 11.55pm,“ another source said. “Just minutes before Rahim was arrested, another passenger, a resident of Madurai in Tamil Nadu, was arrested with Rs 11 lakh. We are still investigating the case, he is yet to talk with us.“
 
 Stating that investigators are also looking into the possible involvement of people working at the air port, a source said: “We aren't clear exactly how this happened, but until we are able to rule out their role with certainty , the probe will go on.“
 
 Officers have been on their toes for the last few months as these aren't the first cases of foreign currency being smuggled to Bangkok. A senior officer said: “We have been hearing chatter on the route since November last year, but real activity began this year. From the end of February, we've got multiple tip-offs and have managed to make some arrests.“ At least Rs 2 crore has beeen seized on the Bengaluru-Bangkok route since November 2016.
 
 In March, they arrested two people smuggling Rs 30 lakh in foreign currency to Bangkok. “Investigation pointed out that they were just couriers and working for Salim, a kingpin, who was arrested later,“ a source said.
 
 Salim was arrested in November 2016 while attempting to smuggle Rs 45 crore to Bangkok. In another case, a man from Bhatkal was stopped while trying to smuggle Rs 10 lakh to Dubai.
 
 
