I am happily married and a content person, but somehow I can't stop getting this strange thought about my death. In my mind, it's an accepted truth that I will die in a road accident. I have tried every possible thing to get this thought out of my head, but I simply can't get over this disturbing thought. What further supports the fact is that I am a fast driver. Can you please help me in dealing with this weird thought? - 
 
 
  
 When an idea is repeated in our mind it begins to energetically move, gathering speed in all directions. After much deliberation, thinking and evaluating if it still persists then it begins to have a life of its own. It is then that an idea manifests itself into the real world. So, your repeated thinking is preparing to create the accident. Obviously this is an unhealthy patten of thinking which has to stop.
  
  You have associated a speeding car and death as being connected. To break the thought, the connection will have to be broken. I suggest NLP technique of " Swish" to get rid of this. So, here it goes:
  
  Bring the image of you driving the speeding car. Make the image clear and brighter. Feel the bodily sensations of anxiety and panic at the thought of an accident. Allow the image to stay for a few seconds and when it's clarity is the maximum, take your right hand and move it in front of your eyes as if deleting the image with its emotions with the word Sssswwwiiissshhhh. The image will disappear and the thought will lose its e- motion.
  
  This fear could be symbolic and could have arisen close in time to some emotional trauma related to a broken relationship or achievement failure. The mind may have become fearful and it could have taken such a form ( speeding car) putting an end to it in a hurry. The mind sometimes when unable to deal with a trauma disguises it in another way which can be dealt with. Hypnosis and Regression therapy can be considered to heal the root cause of the problem.
  
  I suggest that when you drive, say the word "slow" in your mind.
  
  Remind yourself that you are precious to your loved ones and that they are important for you.
  
  If after doing all the above the thought still persists then you have consider doing a   session. Sometimes the cause could be in a memory of the past that you have forgotten. It could come from a lifetime that you have lived before.
  
  I recall Bollywood actress Mahima Chaudhary had a similar fear and would not take a long distance trip because of the fear of speeding cars. After a PLR session on the show   she was free of it completely.
  
  Please try the techniques above and have faith in life.
  
  - 
 
  
  Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
  
