PATNA: Patnaites can heave a sigh of relief as weathermen are expecting the minimum temperature to surge and hover around 10 degrees Celsius over the next couple of days. The respite will, however, be short-lived as a western disturbance situated over Jammu and Kashmir is expected to lead to foggy weather along with low temperature conditions for a few days from Thursday.

 The western disturbance was situated over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir on Monday evening. “A low pressure area has formed over eastern and western Uttar Pradesh under the influence of the western disturbance. It is leading to moisture incursion over Bihar as well which in turn has led to slight temperature surge,” said a senior weather official at the Patna meteorological centre.
 
 The moisture acts as a shield to block the radiation from the earth’s surface to escape in the upper layer of the atmosphere. However, the surge in the moisture level is likely to lead to foggy conditions from Thursday. “We are expecting shallow   cover in Patna and many other parts of the state from Thursday under the influence of moisture incursion from the low pressure area that has formed owing to the western disturbance,” said the weatherman.
 
 Western disturbances are low pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfalls in the northwest Indian subcontinent. The frequency of western disturbances is usually the highest in the month of January compared to the months of December and February. Private weather agency Skymet stated on Monday that several parts of Jammu and Kashmir and   would continue to receive snowfall throughout January.
 
 It is due to the   westerly winds blowing from snowfall laden Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh that almost entire Bihar witnessed extreme low temperature conditions over the past few days.
 
 On Monday, the minimum temperature in Patna was recorded at 8.5 degrees Celsius, while Gaya shivered at 7.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Bhagalpur, on the other hand, stood at 9.7 degrees Celsius.
 
