KOLKATA: The iconic 23-feet-long dinosaur outside   that had been a landmark meeting point for Kolkatans for the past 22 years has died a premature death. The Green T-Rex dinosaur made of steel and fibre glass that had survived earthquakes, torrential rain and multiple car hits, finally bowed before a fire in November and was pulled down subsequently.

 “By the time the early morning fire was noticed, the head was completely gutted. The fire was possibly caused by a short circuit in one of the cable lines that used to run over its head. Firemen sprayed bowsers and even climbed on the structure to douse the fire. That had made the structure extremely unstable and we realized it could take a tumble any moment and cause a major accident. Hence we pulled it down,” said a senior official of Science City.
 
 Installed in 1995, two years before the educational park was formally opened, the giant structure was a popular landmark, just like the   (the big clock made by the Gent’s of London in 1926) at Howrah station. For many, it was a childhood memory to find a huge dinosaur standing on the road out of nowhere. For many, it was a bus stand — the best shade during the rain or scorching heat. For others, it was the ultimate selfie zone. But with the structure suddenly missing, thousands visiting the book fair are finding themselves at a loss.
 
 “It was a habit to ask people to meet in front of the dinosaur while visiting the book fair. This Monday, I had asked an Uber driver to pick me up from near the dinosaur while coming out of the fair gate. As I came out of the subway, suddenly I found there was no dinosaur. The driver was equally confused and it took me 15 minutes to get to the car that was waiting near the exit gate of Science City,” said  , a Chetla resident.
 
 Since its installation, the 1300kg structure stood on a 400-square feet area between the Science City’s main entrance and the Park Circus connector. The structure’s framework was made of steel and the skin was made of fibre glass. It underwent major repairs and was shifted on an elevated concrete platform adjoining the subway by KMDA officials in 2014.
 
 “The structure had withstood a lot of damage. In 2014, a car crashed into its legs, almost toppling it over. We had made the repair works and had reinstalled it on the concrete elevated structure. But the fire damaged the framework beyond repairs. Hence we disposed it of,” said Science City director  .
 
 According to Chowdhury, the educational park has a plan to rebuild an even larger dinosaur by next year but it would be kept inside the park. “The space where the dinosaur stood never belonged to us. It was installed even before the park was made. So, we will not encroach upon the civic body’s road anymore and will install it inside the park,” he said.
 
 
