Ahmedabad: Gujarat will host the final round of the National Children   (NCSC) in December this year, the 25th year of the event. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama set the ball rolling with the launch of a booklet and posters at Gandhinagar on Thursday. Registration for the event, which is expected to see 10 lakh participants from across the country, was formally opened.

 Jaydrathsinh Parmar, MoS for higher and technical education; Dhananjay Dwivedi, secretary of the government of Gujarat’s department of science and technology (DST); Sujit Banerjee, national coordinator, NCSC; and Neeraj Sharma, advisor and head of technology development and transfer with DST (GoI), were also present at the event.
 
 Chudasama said science and technology have shaped modern life and asked students to take up challenges to meet. He gave the example of a racing car developed by a group of engineering students which recently won a national prize as being the amalgamation of energy and focus. 
 
 
 Chudasama also felicitated 28 child scientists who represented Gujarat state at the 24th NCSC at Baramati in Maharashtra and at the Indian Science Congress (ISC) in Tirupati earlier this year. The students included a visually-challenged girl, Krishna Joshi from Anand, who was among the top 40 students making presentations at the NCSC.
 
 In his speech, Dwivedi stressed on a practical and hands-on approach to science education and said that NSCS provides an ideal platform for budding scientists. He also asked students to choose science as their career path. 
 
 Sharma said that the event that attracts enthusiastic students from across the country and provides a deeper understanding of science basics and leads them to becoming professional researchers in the future. 
 
 Innovation for sustainability
 
 The organizers said that the theme for this year is “Science, Technology and Innovation for Sustainable Development”. The special focus area is on accessibility for persons with disabilities.
 
 The event will take place in three rounds — district, state and national level. The district level round will take place in September and October, the state level round in November and the national round in December. The finals will be held at Science City from December 27 to 31. Eventually, 15 projects will chosen as the best and felicitated.
 
 Students can take part in two categories — junior (10 to 14 years) and senior (15 to 17 years). There can be an individual student or a team of up to five students. Narottam Sahoo, advisor, GujCOST, said the groundwork has been prepared at the district level in Gujarat where 1 lakh students will take part.
 
 Sujit Banerjee, national coordinator of NCSC, said they intend to give the final projects of the winners a boost. “The event also works as stepping stone to international events. Indian students won 21 awards at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair earlier this year. We not only work on the science aspect but also groom the child scientists in language, confidence and provide motivation to carry forward their innovations,” he said.
 
 
