The cycle tracks in Lucknow that were announced and built amid much fanfare by the previous government, are now being demolished every where in the state. The tracks were built for the ease and safety of cyclists to commute, and were inspired by the cycle tracks former CM   saw on his   trip. But the current government’s decision to demolish these tracks has been in the news lately, a decision which was announced by UP’s urban development minister Suresh Khanna, who wants the roads to be widened to ease traffic by removing these cycle tracks. However, this decision hasn’t gone down too well with cyclists in the city, who say that demolishing these tracks will make it inconvenient for them to ride on congested city roads. 

 'A lot of students and cyclists commute on the track'
 Sharing his perspective on this latest development, Vivek Ranjan, a manager in a water purifier company and an avid cyclist, says that the tracks were more of a boon for cyclists than a bane for traffic. "In places like Charbagh, there is no cycle track, but there is still traffic congestion due to encroachments. Building these cycle tracks was a great initiative for us cyclists. A lot of students and cyclists commute on the track which is safe for them to ride upon. Ab rahi baat cycle track se traffic jam lagne ki, toh Charbagh ya   mein toh cycle track nahi bane hain, wahan kaise jam lag jaata hai?"
 
 'Not right to demolish the tracks where traffic is under control'
 For  , a young businessman and member of Pedal Yatri, a group of cyclists in the city, the idea of demolishing cycle tracks where it’s not required, is fine. "I have seen a lot of Army personnel and school kids cycling on the track in the morning and during day time especially in the Cantt area and around La Martiniere College. I agree that the cycle tracks were not planned well and were built just anywhere but it’s not so every where. The tracks built in Cantt, Hazratganj, Gomti Nagar and in front of the Governor House are very well planned with enough space where a cyclist can move conveniently. It is not right to demolish the tracks where traffic is under control and people are actually using it."
 Adding to the same thought, Pushpa Verma, a 40-year-old lady biker says, "Being a woman, it is the safest place for me to ride a bicycle. The encroachment on these tracks make it hard for us to cycle on it. Therefore, the UP government should take action against encroachers rather than demolishing the tracks completely."
 
  
  Cycle club members in the city at the cycle track built near La Martiniere College (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 ‘The previous government invested our tax money in it’
 "I don't think it is a good step by the government because the previous government invested our tax money in it," says Dhairya Ahuja, a biker from Lucknow, who has also gone on biking expeditions. "Demolishing the cycle tracks and building something new on it will certainly be a wastage of money and resources. I use the cycle track whenever I have to go some where in the city. It's not right to demolish these tracks," he avers. 
 
 'Safest place for kids and elderly to cycle' 
 "If a kid wants to learn cycling, then these tracks were the safest place to do so. Jabse cycle track pe encroachment hua hai, tabse iski image kharaab ho gayi hai," says Munish Shukla, a member of the   of cyclists in Lucknow, adding, "There is so much encroachment on these cycle tracks that cyclists are forced to ride on the road and its whole purpose was defeated. 
 Agrees Dr Masood Siddiqui, a teacher in a private institute, who got the inspiration for cycling after the cycle tracks were constructed. "I used to get very curious whenever I used to see cyclists on the tracks. Therefore, whenever I got some free time, I would go out for a short ride on my bicycle. Waise bhi aajkal monsoon mein cycle chalaane ka maza hi alag hai. But demolishing them is not right as cycling is a very healthy exercise and also environment friendly," says Masood. 
 
  
  Cycle club members in the city on an early morning ride on the cycle track near La Martiniere College (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 Demolishing the tracks will discourage cycling 
 People like Vishal Sharma, who heads the cycle group Cyclopedia, feel breaking these cycle tracks will just discourage people to cycle. "There are a lot of young and old cycle riders who want to commute through bicycles in the city and they found the cycle tracks very convenient for that. But now that it is being broken, I guess they will stop cycling."
 While Dr Imran Khan, a member from Pedal Yatri, is also not in favour of the cycle tracks being broken. "The reason behind improper use of the cycle track is that people don’t follow the rules. I had to face serious injuries eight months back when an auto- driver came suddenly in front of me. Demolishing it is not the solution for the traffic management. All we need is proper implementation of rules and regulations on the road as well as on cycle tracks," he opines. 
 
 'It is better to break the track and widen the road'
 But there are people who favour the decision.  , secretary of the Lucknow Cycling Club is of the opinion that the cycle tracks were of no use as hardly anyone used them. "It is not at all suitable for us to move at a speed of 50-60 km/h on the cycle track, because of which we have to travel on the road. Har 100- 200 meters pe bane hue cuts aur problem create karte hain. That's why it is better to break the track and widen the roads. A separate lane with a proper partition should be made for cyclists." 
 
 'No official notification regarding demolition of cycle tracks'
 "Mantriji ne yeh baat kahi thi, jo media me aayi. Iske baad aur iske pehle, vibhaag mein hum logon ko koi andaaza nahi hai. Just like everybody else heard this news, we were also made aware that wherever there is traffic congestion, cycle tracks at such places should be removed. The only person who can give you exact information on this is the minister himself. But after that statement of his, and before it, nothing has been conveyed to us, the officials of the department." — A senior official from the department of Urban Development, UP, on condition of anonymity
 
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
