ARIYALUR: The National Commission for Scheduled Caste (NCSC) has directed the Ariyalur district collector and Superintendent of Police to thoroughly inquire into the death of S  , a dalit girl from   village in the district who committed suicide against   cum Entrance Test (NEET) on September 1. The commission also instructed the enquiry committee to table the report within 15 days.

 Speaking to reporters after visiting the family members of the girl here on Saturday, Vice Chairman of NCSC L   said that the family members of Anitha told that the girl committed suicide as she could not get MBBS seat due to failure in NEET. However, the commission had taken the case on suo motu, on the basis of various complaints stating that the girl had took the extreme step due to some mental pressure, he said.
 
 "Though Anitha got seat for pursuing her studies in Veterinary and Agriculture, he committed suicide as she could not get MBBS seat as she had not scored the required marks in NEET. But some complaints we received said that she took the extreme step due to some mental pressure mounted on her. Based on the complaints, the commission has taken the case on suo motu", he said.
 
 The district collector and Superintendent of police would head the panel formed by the commission. They would conduct inquiries and would submit their findings within 15 days, Murugan said.
 "The commission has nominated the district collector G Laxmi Priya and Superintendent of Police   probe the incident and they have asked to submit their report within 15 days", he added.
 
 He also said that the commission would recommend the government to sanction Rs 25 lakh as solatium to the family member of Anitha, he further said.
 
 Earlier the commission members also met the residents of the village and enquired about the incident along with the district collector, Superintendent of Police and Director of Aadi Dravidar Welfare department Mathiazhagan and two investigating officers.
 
 It is noted S Anitha, a dalit girl who scored high marks in the state board Class XII exams, committed suicide on September 1, as she could not pass the NEET and get a medical seat. This incident triggered a widespread protest across the state and still it is on fire.
 
