(Cleared/ Gopa)

 Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has directed the state government to decide either on implementing the Seventh Pay Revision or on giving interim arrears to seven lakh government employees before October 13. It also directed advocate general (AG) Vijay Narayan to get instructions from the expert committee, constituted to look into the possibility of implementing old pension scheme for those in the contributory pension scheme, as to when it will submit its report to the government. 
 
 The bench gave these directions to the AG in the presence of chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan on Thursday. The court directed the government to keep the disciplinary proceedings against employees who boycotted work in abeyance and not to make deductions from their salaries. But the employees should work on Saturdays to compensate for the days they boycotted work, the division bench of justices K K Sasidharan and G R Swaminathan said. The court adjourned the case to October 23. 
 
 The court’s directions will give cheers to lakhs of employees who have been in the dark on when the committees will file reports and the government implement them. Government employees including teachers had launched an indefinite strike on September 7. A contempt plea had come up before the court after the strike continued despite the bench granting injunction against it. 
 
 The court had pulled up the employees associations and asked them to withdraw the strike, which was adhered to. The court had sought government response to the demands of the employees and also the chief secretary’s appearance. On Thursday, senior counsel N G R Prasad, representing the employees, told the bench that the government had adopted delaying tactics in settling the employees’ issue. 
 
 “The committee constituted last year to study the pension issue and the committee constituted in February this year to recommend Pay commission revision are yet to file reports so far. The central government implemented the pay commission revision for its employees,” Prasad said. He also said that pension was not paid. “As per the norm of the contributory pension scheme, the government should contribute to a certain extent. But, that amount was not paid to the retired employees. It does not know where the amount has gone,” he said.
 
 The AG said, “The committee for the pay revision will file its report on or before September 30. After receiving it, the government will need to take considerable time to take decision on implementation of the pay commission revision because many departments and ministries are involved in the matter. In the past, pay revisions were implemented with delay of two or three years after receiving reports from the committee. As far as pension issue is concerned, it is expected that the committee will file report before November 30.” 
 
 Claiming that only a section of employees had struck work, the AG said “On August 28, when they observed one day strike, the percentage of absentees was 48.25 %. During the indefinite strike, the percentage reduced to 12.9 % from 20 %.” 
 
 ROAD TO PAY REVISION 
 
 2006 was the year the last pay revision took place 
 
 The Union government announced 7th Pay Commission Revision on July 25, 2016 and implemented subsequently. 
 
 Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa on February 19 announced that pay revision would be effected the moment the revision is implemented for Central government staff. 
 
 Implementation of old pension scheme and regularisation of services of contract, casual, daily wages employees and grant of special time scale to employees are other key demands.
 
 
