HYDERABAD: A day after the mudslide triggered by the deluge killed a four-month-old baby and his disabled father at Singadikunta in Banjara Hills, police have booked a criminal  , holding him responsible for the tragedy .With the threat of another mudslide looming large on a dozen families residing in   of Singadikunta in Banjara Hills,   officials on Tuesday verified the structural stability of multi-storied buildings precariously poised at ground zero. They lodged a police complaint against the owner of a six-storied apartment for causing the accident by  . On Tuesday , police had booked a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) after the incident. After the GHMC complaint, police altered the case to 304-A (Causing death by rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).

 GHMC deputy municipal commissioner (circle 10-B) Satyanarayana said Krishnam Raju is the owner of a six-storied (cellar+stilt+four) building on plot number 9 of Singadikunta, Road Number 10, Banjara Hills.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Satyanarayana said, “While constructing the building eight years ago, Raju carelessly dumped excavated soil near his plot, where the slum mushroomed.Loose soil, slid along with storm water, devastated the huts on Monday evening, killing two people.“
 
 Apart from carelessly dumping mud, Krishnam Raju also blocked the natural stormwater flow path above huts by constructing a threefoot high wall at the end of the lane in front of his apartment.“The wall was not constructed as a retaining wall. He just built a three feet wall above a two-foot basement on top of loose soil. He also put up a transformer on the base next to the wall. As the wall blocked the natural rainwater flow, water gathered in the lane and the wall collapsed, throwing off the base of transformer into the valley below triggering a mudslide," the deputy commissioner said. Citing these reasons, GHMC authorities lod ged a police complaint against Krishnam Raju.
 
 Yadulu's co-brother Punna Lal and other affected Naidu Nagar residents also blamed Krishnam Raju, whose building is precariously standing atop the accident site. “While digging the cellar, the builder dumped soil above huts and during heavy rains, the mud keeps sliding along with rocks,“ Punna Lal told TOI.
 
 Lal alerted Yadulu's wife Meena about the looming threat when it started raining around 5pm and she managed to leave with her baby daughter, Tina, just in time. “I left the place with my son and by the time Meena and I returned to take Yadulu and his son, the hut was buried under mud,“ Punna Lal said.
 
 GHMC zonal commissioner (central zone) C N Raghu Prasad said huts were built on loose soil and families have to be rehabilitated.
 
 “Revenue department is conducting socio-economic survey of the affected families and, based on the survey report, families will be allotted double-bedroom houses.There are several multi-storied buildings precariously standing abutting the accident site on Road Number 10, Banjara Hills and we will check their structural stability," the zonal commissioner told TOI.
 
