RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s demand for a countrywide law banning cow slaughter has met with criticism, with stakeholders in states where the slaughter is legal terming the suggestion “impractical” and against their “cultural traditions”.

 In BJP-ruled Assam, the party’s   itself is uncomfortable with the suggestion, with its president Mominul Awal saying it is “very unlikely” that it will be implemented.
 
 “Such decisions will have to be taken keeping in mind the region, its tradition and food habits. It has to be a unanimous,” Awal said.
 
 The ruling   in Tripura opposed Bhagwat’s call with deputy speaker in the assembly Pabitra Kar saying India cannot pursue a law which is against the secular fabric of the country.
 
 “No government can interfere in the choice of food of any community,” Kar said.
 
 Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh hailed Bhagwat for the proposal saying India should preserve cow as it was considered ‘mother God’.
 
 “Like in many other states, we want   in Bengal,” said Ghosh.
 
 However, Kolkata Municipal Corporation mayor   countered it saying there is no point in pondering over such an “absurd” opinion.
 
 Kerala law minister AK Balan called Bhagwat’s suggestion “an aggression” against the food habits of people.
 
 “If the Centre dares to implement a blanket ban on cow slaughter and tries to implement beef ban across the country, we would fight it out in the court. There is no question of   government allowing anybody to implement the RSS agenda,” he said.
 
 Former spokesman of Syro Malabar Church, Father Paul Thelekkat, pointed out that while millions of people considered cow sacred, there were many Hindus as well as people from other religious groups who ate beef. “I see no rationale or legality in a section of people imposing their dietary habits on the others in a democratic society.”
 
 General secretary of IUML’s Kerala unit K P A Majeed warned that a nationwide ban on cow slaughter would adversely affect the country’s economy. “It will cripple meat exports worth crores of rupees, apart from adversely impacting the leather and several allied industries,” he said.
 
  spokesperson Samir Ranjan Dash said while it was a crime to slaughter a healthy cow in Odisha, a blanket ban was inappropriate.
 
 “What if a cow suffers from a serious contagious disease, which, if not slaughtered, may compromise public health,” he said.
 
