GHAZIABAD: A woman resident of   in Sahibabad was robbed in her own home on Monday by two men who entered her flat posing as representatives of the housing society’s head office, on the pretext of repairing leakages. The duo handed over an envelope laced with sedatives that rendered her unconscious and then made off with cash and jewellery worth Rs 4.5 lakh, police said.

 Residents of   on Tuesday held a protest outside the society’s premises on Bhopura Road against the police and the developer.
 
 “We have a lack of security guards in our society and they are not even enough for the main gate. CCTV cameras are not on every floor and the existent security guards are untrained that is why we have these issues. This has happened before as well,” said Sanjiv Pawar, a society resident, told TOI.
 
 The crime took place on Monday afternoon when 36-year-old Vijaylakshmi Singh was alone in her 11th floor flat (No Coral B 1111) while her husband, Satyavir Sharma, was at work.
 
 “The two men entered our flat posing as representatives of the society's head office in Noida. They even had an envelope with the head office’s stamp on it. But as soon as my wife opened it, she started feeling unconscious. In the meantime, the duo pulled out a knife and threatened her, and also made her inhale some substance that completely knocked her off,” said Satyavir, the victim's husband.
 
 The two men later scanned the entire house with ease and no interference. “They opened the cupboard and stole gold jewellery worth Rs 4 lakh, along with Rs 50,000 in cash. They knew where the CCTV cameras were placed and avoided them. Somebody from the society’s maintenance might have been involved,” he added.
 
 Satyavir said when he reached home for lunch, he found the front gate of their apartment open and his wife lying unconscious. “I took her to a family healthcare center in Vasundhara after calling the police and the neighbours. She regained consciousness around 5.30 pm and then narrated the incident,” he said.
 
 Some residents said the two men had entered the society posing as executives of a telecom provider.
 
 An FIR has been registered under sections 328 (causing hurt) and 380 (theft) of the IPC at the Sahibabad police station.
 
 
