The lean and fit frame of   belies the fact that he weighed 96kg in Std 12. He got into a regimen to shed that weight and soon was passionate about fitness. The 36-year-old won the ‘Vidarbha Shri‘ title in 2001 but says he left weight training and body building behind to touch new heights in endurance sports. 

 The only full ‘Ironman‘ in Central India, Samarth is currently preparing to participate in Race Across America (RAAM) which he will take up in June this year. “After doing innumerable marathons and Ironman events I realized that being fit and pursuing these activities transforms one’s personality, makes one more sociable and a better human being. I want to create that environment in this city,” he told TOI.
 
 Excerpts from an  ...
 
 
 A. My fitness trip began in Hyderabad where I was working. I ran my first marathon there in 2011 and stood first. After that I took part in many such events in Mumbai and other places and always finished among the first five. It was during these events that I learnt about Ironman which, besides running and cycling, also requires swimming. I couldn’t swim but started learning to do so at the age of 32 in 2012.
 
 
 A. It was in 2011 that I had set a target for Ironman and I started training in Hyderabad. My friend Aniruddha Pandya taught me to swim. I would cycle and run every alternate day and swim five days a week. I learnt from YouTube various techniques of swimming as I wanted to do really well in the event. My first half Ironman was in 2012 at Phuket. Since then I have participated in eight such 70.3 events as they are called.
 
 
 A. It was in Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu where I was working as chief operating officer at   that I started organizing Marathons under the banner of   which I had founded. But my job required extensive travel so I quit it and moved to Nagpur to pursue my sports goals.
 
 
 A. When I returned to Nagpur a couple of years back, a lot of Brevets had begun to happen here. I was very fast at the cycling events and my friend Sachin Palewar suggested that I should take part in the 642km Pune to Goa cycling event which was a qualifier for RAAM. Though I was a novice, I did very well. But I was still not serious about RAAM as it is expensive and requires intensive training and extensive planning. But in 2015 I took part in a 1000km cycling event from India Gate to Amritsar and back in which I did very well. It was at this point that I gave a serious thought to RAAM. So I went to US and crewed for RAAM in 2016 just to learn the ropes.
 
 
 A. I have just returned from Ooty where I cycled in hilly terrains and in cold weather. RAAM makes the rider go through different weather conditions like desert, high altitude mountains and extremely cold weather with a possibility of storms and tornadoes along the routes. I don’t wish to just take part in it. I want to do well. It’s not just me but some 20 others who are working to make it a success. I have the department of nutrition of LAD who are experimenting with high energy foods for the 5000km race which I have to complete in 15 days. I will be on the saddle for nearly 20 hours in a day. There are trainers and coaches who are helping me with my stamina. Being a medico it helps as I can make my training plans.
 
 
 A. I want to promote sports culture in Nagpur. I am looking at creating an endurance sports academy under my Pro Health Foundation where we can have 8-year Olympic programmes under which we will nurture talent and provide intensive training. I also want to run fitness programmes for school and colleges where we will impart scientific knowledge for those wanting to participate in marathons or fitness events. I wish to collaborate with the district administration to promote health and fitness in the city.
 
 
