PUNE: The scene seemed rather ironic as a candidate, wearing dozens of ‘blessed’ threads on his wrist and gems of various hues sitting snug in four finger rings, passed through   as his supporters shouted slogans. Perhaps, neither the candidate nor his supporters were aware that rationalist Narendra Dabholkar was shot dead on the same spot for his crusade against superstitious practices.

 Following Dabholkar’s killing in 2013, Maharashtra became the first state in India to introduce a law banning black magic, witchcraft and other superstitious practices. However, the law has done little to change the approach of city politicos who staunchly believe that elections could be won thanks to colourful threads, finger rings, black threads with a small box dangling around the neck, a forehead dotted with black, yellow, red and grey tilak and black dolls dangling from cars.
 
 While a number of candidates are allegedly resorting to tantra and mantra overseen by local gurus, those with more cash to spare are seeking guidance and blessings of high profile masters from various states. In fact, a senior politician was known for his ‘tantrik’ ways of manoeuvring the elections by taking a dip in  , quite close to Vitthal Ramji Shinde Bridge. Now, the leaders’ heirs are following the same footsteps, despite the evident presence of sewage in the waterways, in a bid to prod their lucky stars.
 
 Certain senior corporators and politicians across party lines have approached an influential spiritual guru from another state to seek guidance and blessings only a few days ago. Political circles are abuzz with talk of how the guru spoke to various party high commands to seek nominations for his bhakts. As for the followers, they have been handed a mantra to be chanted each morning, before setting off on campaign. 
 
 A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) employee, who claims to have spiritual powers, also holds some sway over corporators and aspirants. Earlier, a city mayor had placed a ‘tantra yantra’ under her office table while the leader of the house in the   had placed coconuts and lemons in all four corners of his office in the civic body.
 
 While shifting loyalties to other parties, some corporators had sought the opinion of a guru from the mid-city area, while others performed Shanti Pooja to ‘pacify agitated stars’ before filing the nomination papers.
 
 Puneites will never forget the scene when a prominent politician, known for his clean image as well as being superstitious, prostrated before a guru at a public function at Balgandarva Rangmandir. The public figure, who claims to be clean and non-corrupt, is known to make political decisions based on the guru mantra. 
 
 “Superstitious beliefs and practices prevail across party lines and politicians follow these practices because of an uncertain political arena. Not surprisingly, the bill against superstitious practices and black magic remained pending in the state assembly for over 18 years. Finally, Dabholkar had to lay down his life to get the bill sanctioned. As citizens, all of us need to ask politicians why they behave irrationally and illogically,” said  , son of Narendra Dabholkar.
 
