BHOPAL: TOI has tracked down three ‘missing persons’ who have been a source of concern for police in the   Das triple-murder case. Bengal cops hadn’t been able to contact the trio despite having their addresses and phone numbers, making them fear the worst, especially because Udyan would get nervous when asked about one of these women.

 On Monday, TOI managed to contact all three, who are alive but in shock after the grisly revelations in the case. Two women knew the triple-murder suspect for a long time, and the third person — a former boyfriend of Akansha Sharma — was allegedly on Udyan’s hit list.
 
 TOI found that Udyan’s former girlfriend, an Arera Colony woman, is married and living in a Rajasthan city with her family (we are withholding the exact location). Her brother said, “She is hale and hearty. She is married and has kids. Our family and Udyan’s family were friends. His father was a gentleman. I could never dream that he’d kill his own parents.”
 
 The other woman, a school friend of Udyan, is living with her family in Bhopal and about to get married. TOI spoke to her sister, who said, “We were shocked when we read about Udyan in the newspapers. My sister was his schoolmate and nothing more than that. I am happy that we didn’t have any close contact with him.”
 
 Akansha’s former boyfriend, who works with ONGC, is in shock. “Her death is very saddening. I was friends with Akansha for a long time. I didn’t know Udyan but he called me up in July. His repeated calls turned into harassment for me after which I changed my number. I am married and was living peacefully until I heard of her murder. It has shaken my family.” 
 
 Bankura police were particularly worried about the safety of Udyan’s former girlfriend, the Arera Colony woman, because he would react with the same nervousness that he showed when asked about his parents’ whereabouts on the first day of the investigation. Police had found a photo of her with Udyan during a search of his home. They got her name and contact details but could not trace her. The other woman renewed contact with Udyan on Facebook six months ago, just after Akansha’s murder. A source privy to the investigation said that Udyan had tried to lure her with a fake job offer with UNICEF at New York, just as he did with Akansha. 
 
 Police were concerned for Akansha’s ex-boyfriend because their investigation revealed a possible plot by Udyan to kill him. Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira said, “We were worried that the two girls from Bhopal also may be his victims. We knew their names but couldn’t contact them or their families. We sought help from Bhopal police to locate them but they didn’t respond. It was important for us but I think it was far more important for Bhopal police since the crime (Akansha’s murder) took place there and the girls belong to Bhopal.”
 
 
