New Delhi: The high court on Monday agreed to examine the validity of a Centre-appointed panel’s report recommending that the   pay Rs 97 crore which the Delhi government spent on advertisements.

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and the lieutenant governor and Congress leader Ajay Maken seeking their stand on the petition filed by   against the   demand.
 
 “If the report goes, everything goes,” the court clarified, posting the case for further hearing on August 8, even as it added that since non-compliance of the notice had no legal consequences at present, the party could refrain from paying the amount.
 
 AAP has challenged the report, based on which the LG had ordered recovery of Rs 42 crore from the party, which the Delhi government had paid for the advertisements. The LG also directed that the outstanding amount of about Rs 55 crore, owed to   agencies, be paid by the party and not the government.
 
 In its plea the party has challenged LG Anil Baijal’s order, demand notice and the panel’s recommendation arguing that these decisions were taken without hearing it.
 
 The court then asked AAP to first withdraw its application seeking an interim stay of the demand notice -- since it had agreed to examine the report -- and the party complied.
 
 During arguments, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, who appeared for the Centre and the LG, urged the court to dismiss the petition saying that the “primary objective” of the plea was to stall the recovery proceedings.
 
 Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Maken, contended that the ads issued by the AAP government were in violation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines regulating government advertising.
 
 But senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the Arvind Kejriwal-led party, argued that AAP was not even given a chance to explain its stand by the panel or the LG before the recommendation and order were issued. Dave also said that if the same yardstick was applied to the BJP, it would have to pay “thousands of crores (of rupees)” to the exchequer.
 
 The LG had ordered the chief secretary of the Delhi government to recover the amount from AAP within a month after a committee, headed by former chief election commissioner B B Tandon, in its report of September 16 last year, had held that the Delhi government had spent the exchequer’s money on advertisements projecting the chief minister and his party in violation of the SC guidelines of May 13, 2015.
 
