In Kerala, while the standard price of a movie ticket in an ordinary theatre is between `70 and `100, in multiplexes, it can range anything between `120 and `180. 

 On weekends, the same ticket prices can go upto `220, and for a VIP seat, you might have to shell out whopping `340 for a ticket. Recently, the Karnataka State Government issued an order capping the maximum price of movie tickets in all theatres including multiplexes, at `200. Exemptions are given for Gold Class (VIP) seats but they should constitute only 10% of the total number of seats in a theatre. Exemption has also been given for high end movie theatres like IMAX and 4DX. 
  The move has left the rest of the States too wondering if the cap will be introduced elsewhere as well, and naturally distributors and theatre owners are a worried lot. Owners won’t be able to afford a price cap for high end theatres, says B Unnikrishnan, while Suresh Kumar, producer, feels that the cap in Kerala should be around `110 as against `200 in Karnataka. Ranjith, a representative of the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK), however, feels that the cap will not affect the bulk of collections in Kerala as yet, as multiplexes are few in number still.
 
 
 The ticket rates should be according to the quality of the theatre
 B Unnikrishnan, MD of Aries Plex SL Cinemas in Trivandrum
 
 I don’t think such a policy from the part of the government will be feasible here. Aries offers advanced screening quality and we won’t be able to afford its maintenance with the capped ticket price. Such quality is not available even in Karnataka multiplexes. The cost of the sound system for one of our auditoriums costs more than `1 crore so we can’t cut short the price of all the screens to the capped rate. As the theatres in our state have the right to determine their respective ticket rates, the rates of each theatre should be in accordance with the quality of the screening and facilities available.
 
 
 
 The cap should be between `100 and `125 in Kerala'
 Suresh Kumar, president, Kerala Film Producers Association 
 
 I am of the opinion that in Kerala too, such a cap on movie ticket pricing can be of help. Here, an ideal cap would be between `100 and 125. The standard rate here in A/C theatres is `100 while it’s `60 and above, in non A/C. There might be upper middle class audiences who might be willing to pay higher prices, but we should also keep in mind the rest of the people. If the ticket prices keep skyrocketing, the common man won’t be able to afford movie watching here. In Kerala too, there are quite a few multiplexes that charge `200 and above. There should be all kinds of options for audiences belonging to different sections. In Tamil Nadu, there is even a law brought about by Jayalalithaa which says that the tickets for the first row of a theatre should be sold only for `10. In Kerala, the theatre business becomes profitable only if the pricing is good and there is A/C. There are around 24 renovated theatres now in Kerala and more of them are coming up.
 
 
 
 
 
 The middle class welcomes this move
 I guess the `200 cap is excluding taxes. Moreover, as gold class screens do not come under this category, theatre owners might go on to increase the price of these luxury tickets. If so, one has to wait and see how far such a governmental decision would be of any impact.
 — Poulose Mathew, banker, Kochi
 
 Let’s wait and see if it will be implemented well
 
 We welcome such policies here also as it will be beneficial for movie goers here. For a common man in the city it is very expensive to watch a film in a high end multiplex in the city, like Aries Plex. For a four-member middle class family, the amount will come to `1500 to watch a movie there even though this amount includes the cost of refreshments. But if we follow a capped price of `200, the expenditure will be only half of this amount. 
 — Balakrishnan B, 
 businessman, Trivandrum
 
 Put a price cap on the food too
 It’s a welcome move and I hope other States too follow suit, soon. The next thing they should look into is the price of the food items sold in various theatres, which is nothing less than daylight robbery. There should be a cap on how far someone can charge an item above MRP in theatres, considering that some of the theatres don’t allow food from outside.
 — Sukanya S, student, Kochi
 
