NEW DELHI: A septuagenarian paid with his life for refusing to give his son a glass of water in southwest Delhi’s Bindapur on Friday night. Many neighbours watched the man being beaten by his angry son, but the few that ventured to intervene had to beat a hasty retreat in the face of a violent response.

 Neighbours said that 75-year-old Ram Kumar, who had retired as a lineman with MTNL, was often bullied by his son Chetan, who thrashed him if he did not do the household work in the son’s home. 
 
 The widower owned two houses in Khushi Ram Park — he lived in one, while the other was occupied by Chetan, whose wife had deserted him.
 
 Because the son frequently fought with his father, not many paid attention when Chetan began beating his father on Friday night. 
 
 “We would see Chetan bullying his father every day, and so we did not take things too seriously on Friday,” said Payal, Kumar’s neighbour at Khushi Ram Park. “But we soon heard sounds of things being broken and then Chetan’s daughter ran out screaming for help. We rushed to find out what was happening, but by the time we reached the house, the old man had collapsed.”
 
 Police arrested Chetan from his house later in the night. “We have registered a case of murder against him,” said  , DCP (South-west).
 
 Chetan’s 14-year-old daughter was witness to the incident. Police claimed that the girl told them that soon after returning home from work at 10pm — Chetan has been driving an e-rickshaw for the past six months — her father had poured himself a glass of alcohol and asked for some water. Since water supply had been disrupted in the locality for two days, the girl said there was no water at home.
 
 Incensed that his father had not managed to collect water, Chetan walked up to Kumar’s house. 
 
 “When he started shouting, my grandfather opened the door,” police reported the girl as saying. “My father asked for water, but grandfather refused. He said he did have water stored for our use, but would not waste it on father’s bad habit.”
 
 Unable to control his anger, Chetan picked up stick and started hitting his father. He also punched the old man on the chest and threw him against the wall. The septuagenarian collapsed and died before anyone could intervene. 
 
