The recently held Pride parade in the city of lakes, made a bold statement with citizens coming out in acceptance of the   community. Along the same lines, theatre artistes from   are also creating ripples with plays that are bending the gender norms in the city. Plays like   and   have become a talking point with their progressive topics of drama, which raise poignant questions on inclusion of members from the LGBT community, their expectations from the society and quest for acceptance.
 
  
 Penned by the renowned playwright   in the sixties, the story of leading a dual life 
  is still relevant in contemporary scenario. The narrative begins with the birth of two girls in neighbouring towns in the state of Rajasthan. Their fathers had made a vow earlier that their respective offspring will be married to each other. Then begins the tale of a loving relationship of a girl loving a girl, who eventually leave the village to pursue their love and end up leading a romantic life they wished for.  , an NSD graduate who plays the protagonist Tija, shares, “When my friend Neha Singh took up the play, I decided to play the girl who marries another girl taking her to be a boy, only to fall deeply in love with her after marriage. The character Bijji is pivotal to the story, as it is she who makes her partner realise that it is okay to fall in love beyond the acceptable norm. She is the one, who describes their intense physical and spiritual relationship through intricate poems and conversations. In essence Dohri ZIndagi is about accepting one’s true identity even if it is a digression from the societal norm.” Speaking about the audience’s reaction in Bhopal Dube says, “We actually got mixed reactions from the audience in Bhopal. There were some who loved the idea of coming out to people, while there were a class of people who exclaimed that ek maryada mein rehkar acting karni chahiye. In spite of that my group and I were delighted by the fact that it is the youngsters like us who are more accepting and comfortable with the truth of gender neutrality. Thereby, giving us hope for a progressive Bhopali audience for similar kind of plays.” 
  
  
 There comes a time in the play when the partner of Bijji annoyed by the patronising society requests the spirits to change her into a man. However once that happens their perfect world suffers under the inequality of typical patriarchal mind set replete with arrogance and dominance. Hurt by the change, Tija decides to leave her partner and that is when Neha realises the error and reverts to womanhood restoring their relationship. Dube explains the end “Through our play, we emphasise on the love of a person for another person, without being bound by gender. How they take care of each other and stay in love in a largely homophobic society”.
  
  
 Just like 
  another play 
 came to fore with its inclusive subject on the life of a transgender. It is the story of a boy who is exploring his gender orientation at a tender age when he decides to wear his Mother’s sarees and make-up. Looking at his effeminate ways the father turns him out of the house after which he goes through a series of life altering events like escaping sexual abuse, getting accepted in the transgender community and trying to seek a decent job as a transgender. Writer and Director of the play Deeksha Sahu, a MP school of drama graduate says, “The play was based upon the scenes I witnessed as a child. I used to notice the 
 visiting our home during weddings and festivals, singing and asking for money on trains. Back then I was intrigued by their life but never questioned anyone about it. While in college, I decided to seek answers to all those questions I had as a child, where do the live, where do they study, what kind of jobs do they take up? 
 emerged from a series of such questions to the local communities at Mangalwara and Itwari tori at Sagar.” Sahu who received a cold shoulder on her first approach, persevered for a couple of months to get the complete story out. “I realised that their anger and insecurity is actually a defence mechanism for all the verbal, sexual and physical abuse they face. The delicate looking beautiful eunuchs are eve-teased on the streets. But when people realise that they are actually transgender they get that disgusting look. Through 
  title that represents the anomaly of being neither here, nor there when it comes to gender I wanted people to realise their hardships and give them a more acceptable life.”
  
  
 Sharmila Pradhan, a student who also took part in the pride in support of the community speaks how Bhopal has become more accepting of such contexts, “It is a global movement that is taking every nation, every city under its tutelage, why would Bhopal be any different. For every group or every person who abhors the idea of homosexuals or  , there is the young brigade who not only accepts their identity, but supports them too. And this can be observed by the large number of audience that turn up for the plays.” Many more like Avichal Jain, a PR professional agree with the view, “The city is getting more progressive by the day albeit slowly, which is a good news. With events like bold theatre themes and pride parade this acceptance gets reiterated.”
  
