Economist and environmental activist Dharmalingam Venugopal has warned that with the monsoons more active than usual, a disaster could strike the Nilgiris hills if the administration does not act in time and check constructions that could destabilise the ecosystem. In a freewheeling chat with Shantha Thiagarajan, the founder of the Save Nilgiris Campaign and honorary director of the Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) underscored the seriousness of the situation and said the administration should consider a moratorium on all constructions on slopes greater than 33 degrees. It is well established by now that most of landslides in the Nilgiris occur on road margins.

 Why do think the Nilgiris is at a cross roads now?
 
 Modern Nilgiris, if one takes the arrival of John Sullivan as the beginning, will be 200 years old by January 2019. In the the first 160 years, changes were gradual and the basic characteristics and uniqueness of the district were hardly affected. But in the past four decades the pace of change has been rapid, upsetting the fundamental features of the district. At this rate, the degradation may become unstoppable. And that would be a great ecological loss to the state, country and the world. The Nilgiris was considered one of the 400 natural wonders of the world by geographers.
 
 What are the major causes of this degradation?
 
 The factors that triggered the process of degradation in the 1970s and 80s were multiple, combined and external to the Nilgiris. The main factors were the tea and tourism boom, industrialisation and a quantum jump in immigrant population, all of which were a result of global or national developments.
 
 What were the major consequences of the degradation?
 
 The limited and aging infrastructure of towns, especially Ooty, like water supply, drainage, waste disposal and traffic came under tremendous pressure. A radical shift in the cropping pattern, industrialisation and of mushrooming of habitations opened up the traditional Nilgiri economy to aggressive market forces and outside investments leading to loss of natural resources, soil, slope stability and landslides.
 
 What has been the response to these adverse developments?
 
 The Nilgiris public responded remarkably by forming action groups, spreading awareness, launching campaigns, petitioning the governments and protesting against hazardous projects. The government also responded by imposing a master plan, constituting the Hill Area Conservation Authority, declaring more protected areas and so on. However, the remedial measures could not keep pace with the level of degradation and newer challenges kept surfacing.
 
 What is the way forward?
 
 Recognition of mountain issues is relatively a new development, even globally. In India, some recognition was recently accorded to the 11 mountain states in the north. In the south, mountains are yet to get the due attention of governments.
 
 The state government should convince the centre to declare the Nilgiris as an environmentally sensitive zone as in the case of the Matheran hill station in Maharashtra. The government should find an integrated solution to preserve the ecology, economy and culture of the Nilgiris. Both the Centre and the state should recognise the sustainable potential of the Nilgiris to become a world class tourist centre. 
 
 A potential linked perspective plan for the Nilgiris should contain bold and innovative initiatives, including infrastructure capacity for 5 million tourists, tunnels, flyovers, air link, cable car links, multilevel parking, tourist villages and round-the-clock tourist activities, with strict regulation and monitoring.
 
 
