GURUGRAM: Four men were arrested in the early hours of Saturday for allegedly murdering a man and snatching a car from a cab driver to dispose of the body. 

 Two of the accused were critically injured when they jumped off the flyover near Palam village in Delhi to escape arrest.
 
 Sources said that the accused belong to Nandu gang, which is active in Najafgarh, and they killed the man over personal rivalry after kidnapping him. A senior police officer said the accused have been identified as Arun, Sidharth, Mohit and Manish. He added that the man who was murdered by the accused, Manoj, was also a criminal.
 
 Around 10.30pm on Friday, Deepak Kumar, a cab driver, informed the cops that his Toyota Innova had been snatched by four men in Sector 5. A police team reached the spot and found that accused had sped off with the Innova and left their car, a Maruti Esteem, behind. Deepak told police that the accused shifted a youth at gunpoint from their car to the Innova and fled. An FIR was registered against the accused under sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of IPC at Sector 5 police station. 
 
 The GPS system of the Innova was faulty, and hence it was difficult for the cops to track the accused. Two crime unit teams and one team of police officers from Sector 5 police station were formed to apprehend them. Around 1am, the Innova was spotted going towards Delhi from Bahadurgarh.
 
 “The Innova was spotted on the flyover near Palam in Delhi. The car had run out of fuel when the police caught the accused. Two of them jumped off from the flyover to escape, while the other two were arrested. The accused who jumped off sustained critical injuries, and were alsotaken in custody,” the investigating officer told TOI. 
 
 Upon questioning, the accused revealed that they had had a dispute with Manoj the day before, in which the latter had opened fire on them. 
 
 On Friday evening, they abducted Manoj from Najafgarh and were going to murder him and dispose the body, but their car broke down in Sector 5. 
 
 They snatched the Innova from Deepak and killed Deepak, dumping his body in Bahadurgarh. His body was later recovered by cops.
 
 “The accused had kidnapped Manoj and taken him in their Esteem as they wanted to dump his body after killing him. When their car broke down they snatched the cab and then shifted him there. We are investigating the matter,” a senior police officer said. When contacted, Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), confirmed that a cab was snatched by four men in Sector 5. 
 
 
