 What do you do when you have just received your   and flunked in some subjects? So you think you will finish the backlog in next semester? Well, that might soon be just a dream if you are a student of Gujarat University. If you   in a subject you might have to repeat the whole semester again as opposed to currently when the students are being promoted to the next semester or in simple terms   (Allowed To Keep Term). Ahmedabad Times takes a look at this. 

 Ashwinkumar Purohit, principal, S M Patel Institute of Commerce says, “Students become very careless when they are given the liberty to keep the term. If we want our education system to improve, students should be made to follow the rules and not be casual in their approach towards education. They should be allowed to graduate from one semester to another but not one year to the other.” Purohit maintains that students should not be promoted if he flunks in more than four subjects in three years. Reports show that around 60 percent students recently failed to clear semester V, B Com. The new proposal suggests that the student will not be promoted unless he/she clears the backlog of the previous year. If the students fails in a subject in semester one he will graduate to Semester II but not Semester III unless the backlog is clear. 
 
 Kabir Teckwani, student, HLCC says, “It will become difficult for those who are pursuing two courses at the same time. Many students are pursuing CA and CS courses along with their B.com and it will be a huge pressure for them.” Teckwani adds, “Foreign universities have an option where a student can complete a six semester course in either four semesters or maximum 8-10 semesters. We should have such options too.” Until now, students have been promoted till the last semester in spite of failing to clear papers from first or second semester. Aditya Gajra, a student of SKIPS says, “This is a strict step and lot of students might not be able to complete their graduation due to this. The university should however consider it from case to case and not generalise.” M N Patel, Vice chancellor, Gujarat University was not available for comment at the time of going to press.
 
 
