BENGALURU: In May 1970, the city got an Olympic-sized   in Kensington Road right next to Ulsoor Lake. For those staying nearby, the pool was a place of languor. While many learnt to swim here, others spent their summers jumping off its diving boards. However, residents say the pool has been shut for the last ten years and they have no idea why.

 On Wednesday, nearly 60 residents of  , led by N S Ravi, president of the Bharatinagar residents’ forum, registered a peaceful protest for being deprived of this essential facility. 
 
 “This is the only swimming pool catering to east Bengaluru. Residents and families from surrounding areas like Murphy Town, Gautampura and Fraser Town would come here to swim. People living in this area cannot afford to go to private clubs and shell out exorbitant amounts for a swim,” said Ravi, adding that though some renovation work was completed six months ago, the pool is yet to reopen. 
 
 The facility has all the required amenities like spacious showers and changing rooms. It even has a sizeable seating area at one end of the pool and a multi-level diving structure.
 
 Murali, a resident of Cox Town, said that as a child he learnt swimming in this pool. “The place has hosted many swimming meets in the past. Earlier, during summers, when Ulsoor Lake would dry up, we would walk across the lakebed to get to the pool. Now, when my children ask me to take them for swimming, I don’t know what to do,” he said. Residents say the other options are are to go to faraway Basavanagudi, Sadashivnagar or Gymkhana, were they charge close to Rs 300 per hour .
 
 Said Manjunath Sharma, a resident of Cox Town for 30 years: “I learnt to swim in this pool along with my elder brother. We used to come almost every day. Unfortunately, now my children have nowhere to swim.” 
 
 Promise to reopen it in 25 days
 
 Roshan Baig, MLA from Shivajinagar, however insisted that he has been following up on this issue and has spoken to the authorities concerned about the pool. “Two days ago, I spoke to the minster from the department of youth affairs. Recently, the pool required work, and before that it was caught in some dispute between the BBMP and the department. The facility should reopen within 25 days,” he said.
 
 Anupam Agarwal, director of the department of youth empowerment and sports, said procedural delays had resulted in Bengaluru's first public pool remaining shut for all these years. “All pending works are over now. There were some procedural delays as we were considering different options to see who should take care of the pool’s daily operations. In fact, we were even considering handing it over to a private contractor.”
 
