Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation will soon have a policy to regulate functioning of outdoor patient department (OPD) at hospitals, private nursing homes, radiology centres and pathology laboratories in the city. This was announced by mayor Nanda Jichkar after independent corporator Abha Pande raised the issue of NMC having no control over private nursing homes coming up all over the city, while BJP corporator Pravin Datke stressed on the need for a policy to curb illegal use of residential properties as hospitals.

 Pande said that the city was known as a medical hub in Central India. “With no policy of its own, it is supposed to follow Maharashtra Nursing Home Registration Act, but NMC follows the Pune Municipal Corporation in this regard,” Pande stated. 
 
 Even functioning of NMC’s own health department was exposed in the House as its health officer Dr Anil Chivane provided wrong information on number of nursing homes registered with the civic body. He had earlier informed the House there were 629 nursing homes and hospitals registered with the NMC. Pande objected to this figure as the health department’s document provided to her stated the city had 630 hospitals. Dr Chivane admitted some mistakes in the figure and informed the House that NMC had 631 registered hospitals. Suspecting foul play, Pande wondered how Dr Chivane changed his statement frequently. 
 
 She also cited various examples of how hospitals are violating the Act. Pande claimed many hospitals had obtained no-objection certificates from the health department to run 35-bed nursing homes but later they increased the number of beds without providing improved basic facilities. Pande claimed most of the private hospitals increased the number of beds to get benefit of empanelment of government organizations. 
 
 With no policy or control, the city has over 1000 private nursing homes that included even those of bogus doctors operating openly. “If a policy is framed, punitive action like cancellation of their recognitions can be taken immediately,” she said. 
 
 Later, Datke too moved a proposal to frame a policy to control OPDs operating from residential areas and buildings, which are causing inconvenience to residents. Datke also cited example of two flats in Karamsheel Heights near Indora Square that were allegedly converted into a radiology centre and sonography centre. When general body directed to seal them as they were a nuisance for other occupants of the apartments, owners of the properties got a stay from the high court. NMC could not do anything as it had no policy, Datke stated. 
 
 Mayor Jichkar has directed the civic administration to take help of health committee members and frame the policy within a month.
 
 
