KOLKATA: As Burdwan's sitabhog and mihidana made it to the finishing line of the coveted GI (geographical indication) tag, an enthused Bengal government sought similar honours for dokra of Bengal, Bengal patachitra, Purulia Chhau and Kushumandi wooden masks and madurkathi.

 AGI tag is granted by the Geographical Indications Registry on recommendations of the Chennai-based   Appellate Board. Usually granted when a geographical location adds a certain quality to a product, GI vouches for its authenticity and is more often granted to a community than an individual or enterprise.
 
 “Bardhaman's Sitabhog“ and “Bardhaman's Mihidana--the prefixes are deliberately added to avoid any dispute similar to that of rosogolla's place of originality--made a foray into the GI club as the Chennai-based GI Registry published the desserts's names in its Journal 92, vaulting them to the global arena. The honour is often referred to the poor man's intellectual property rights. “The mention of sitabhog and mihidana in the journal means they have now been put in the GI category. A formal registered emboss will come in four months,“ an official at the science and technology department told TOI on Monday. The department has merged with higher education and biotechnology departments. Sitabhog and mihidana in ched closer to the GI honour on August 22 last year, when a team, led by GI examiner   and assistant registrar of trademarks  , gave their verbal approval on the presentation --documents on authenticity and techno-legal support--for the desserts. The recognition would help sweet-makers from Bengal, especially Burdwan, market them in global arena, officials said. “Regional products all over the country are clamouring for a GI tag. Bengal's products are far better than some of these that show off their tags,“ an official said.
 
 The district administration of Burdwan--the place of originality of the two desserts--now plans to train manufacturers in packaging and marketing to cater the products elsewhere in the country and abroad. The sweets can remain packaged for 10 days, beyond which they go bad. In fact, ever since   became the CM, she had been trying to develop the sweets into a full-fledged industry. The daily turnover of the business, which involves 50 manufacturers, is Rs 25 lakh-30 lakh.They were sold for Rs 80-Rs 150 a kg, said Prosenjit Datta, a manufacturer.
 
 Of the 272 products that have received GI tags so far, around 10 are from Bengal, including Darjeeling tea, Laxman Bhog mango, khirsapati (himsagar) mango, fazli mango from Malda, Santipore saree, Baluchari saree, Dhaniakhali saree and Joynagarer moa.
 
