CHENNAI: With   chosen  , her family is all set to wield greater power in the administration.

 There are at least half a dozen other power centres in the Mannargudi clan. However, the family is susceptible to oft-changing power matrix; till Jayalalithaa’s demise, all family members were united, but turf war has broken out among prominent members of late.
 
 Sasikala’s husband M Natarajan is perhaps the only one in the family who has to operate through other members, because the relationship between the couple remains strained. Still, he is a power to reckon with and it is evident from the stream of visitors, mostly officials, to his Besant Nagar residence seeking favours like plum postings. Some have made it a practice to show up every morning and run errands.
 
 Sasikala’s brother Divakaran, sister-in-law Ilavarasi, her son Vivek, nephews T T V Dinakaran, Venkatesh and Jai Anand - the list of power centres is long. Every member of the family has some clout in the present dispensation. Of late, Dinakaran and Venkatesh are seen as the most influential as they virtually stay at Poes Garden with their aunt. The two played a major role in packing off former adviser to government   and secretaries to the CM K N Venkataramanan and A Ramalingam. Except Ramalingam, the two were serving extended tenures after superannuation and were accused of pursuing their personal agenda in the administration.
 
 The extended family is into a range of businesses from film making to media, distillery, rice mill and plantations. They own real estates across the state.
 
 Sasikala will have a tough time managing the turf war within the family. Sources close to the family said there are already signs of skirmishes over who should Sasikala listen to. With each one of them pursuing chief ministerial ambitions, it will never be a smooth sail for her. What could put the brakes on some are the pending cases against them.
 
 Even when Sasikala had been staying with Jayalalithaa, the latter had unleashed the state police against many of Sasikala’s family members, including Natarajan and Divakaran, in 2012 based on intelligence reports against them. Once Sasikala assumes office as CM, she would revamp the entire intelligence wing, said the source.
 
 
