KOCHI: The Cochin Cancer Centre (CCC) may soon start surgery for cancer patients using facilities at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, which functions in the same premises. 

 As the CCC doesn't have the facilities to start surgery in the absence of operation theatre and post-operative ward, the cancer centre authorities have approached the medical college officials. The operation theatre will be provided by the medical college. 
 
 "They have offered to provide us their operation theatre. We should hire an anaesthetist and conduct surgeries on our own," a source with the centre said.
 
  "The medical college authorities will hand over one of the rooms attached to our building so that we can open a post-operative care unit there. But, we will have to arrange all the facilities including air-conditioning, beds and other medical equipment. For the purpose, we need some money urgently," he said.
 
  The doctors at the cancer centre will take care of the patients who underwent surgery. So, some of the staff and anaesthetist will have to be appointed on contract basis.
 
 As of now, an average of 15 patients seeks treatment at the cancer centre daily. Unfortunately, the patients at the cancer centre are not eligible for the financial benefits offered by the government under the schemes like   and Karunya. "As per the norms, only inpatients are eligible for the benefits of such scheme. We have already sent a letter to the lottery department (Karunya Benevolent Fund is run by lottery department) for sorting out the issue," a source said.
 
 The cancer institute authorities have requested the state government a budgetary allocation of Rs 20 crore for meeting the expenses until the centre becomes a full-fledged one. The state government has already decided to provide financial support from   (KIFBI) for implementing Rs 360 crore Kochi cancer institute project. 
 
 It will take at least two years for the construction of the project is to be over. Until then the cancer centre will be functioning from the current building.
 
  "If the government provides a budgetary allocation for us, it would help us meet the expenses during the transition period," a source said.
 
 The authorities are planning to prepare a district database of cancer patients. "We will have to prepare an independent database. Though some of the private agencies have some data with them, it is not accurate. We should require the details like number of patients, number of male and female patients, types of cancer prevalent in the area etc. It is on the basis of the data the future course of action can be prepared," the source said.
 
 Another key area is early detection of cancer and rehabilitation of cancer survivors. "Changes in the body can be detected at an early stage of 15 years. This means that the early detection can cure the disease easily," a doctor with cancer institute said.
 
 Justice   leaders said that Early Cancer Detection Centre at Kaloor should be attached to Cochin Cancer Centre. 
 
 "Only cytology tests, which are the basic screening tests, are being done at Early Cancer Detection Centre at Kaloor. Though, histopathology tests, which are confirmative test, were available at the   three years ago as the doctor there is not qualified to do these tests. It requires a doctor with MD pathology degree to conduct the histopathology test," said Dr N K Sanil Kumar of Justice Krishna Iyer Movement. "At the same time, doctors with MD pathology are available at CCC. If the Early Cancer Detection Centre is attached to CCC, then more advanced tests can be done at the detection centre," he said.
 
