If you plan to go street shopping at Linking Road in Bandra anytime this week, you may want to reconsider your decision. The stall owners of the almost iconic fashion street of the suburbs are in a face-off with the   and have shut shop. They claim, according to the posters on their shutters, that the BMC is harassing them. 
The stretch that starts from National College and goes on until at least half-a-kilometre, has approximately 150 shops. The patch, often chock-a-block with traffic, shoppers and hawkers, is now visibly empty. With the place being crowded during weekends, many were seen returning disappointed on seeing their favourite shopping destination in lockdown mode. A van of police stood nearby, wearily eyeing the protesters who were sipping tea and talking to anyone who would listen to their woes.
 
 
 
 Pakhi Mehta, a Borivali resident, came with her cousins to shop for footwear and thought the shops had downed shutters because of some festival. Later, shopkeeper Faheem chacha explained why they had done so. She said, “I often shop here for footwear, tops and kurtis. But this is disappointing. I may now go to Hill Road to buy jootis, but there’s more variety here.”
 Saba Kasini, a sales and marketing professional from Ahmedabad, decided to shop at this landmark place with her colleague Hetal Patel. She said, “This is disappointing! We’d heard so much about this place.”
 
 
 
 The average cost of goods — be it clothes, footwear, junk jewellery and other accessories — from the stores at Linking Road differs vastly from the stores around. The clientele that buys sasta items have no option but to go to the remaining handful of stores in the bylanes of Linking Road. In fact, they will now have to dole out more money, albeit for superior items. Kajal Sharma, a student of  , is visibly upset with the development. She says, “I can’t keep calm. It’s unfortunate that the shops are shutting down. My pocket money will be greatly affected. We could buy stuff at cheaper rates, but we’ll now have to rush to the malls to get the same items at double the price.”
 
 
 
 Over the past few months, the BMC demolished a few stalls. Umesh Saroj, a salesman at a garment shop, claims, “They want to extend the Patwardhan Garden which is right behind the stalls and hence they want to relocate some of us, which will affect our business. Our current location gives us better visibility. This has been going on since January 31 and we don’t know how long this will go on. We earn close to `400 per day, but have nothing now.”
 However, Sharad Ughade, Assistant Municipal Commissioner,   had told the Times of India earlier this week, “This is not a sudden action. We have been receiving repeated complaints from citizens claiming that they are not able to walk on the footpath as the stalls have taken over more than the area provided to them. Some of the pitch licences were only for 1-metre-by-1-metre stretch, but many were functioning in a space much beyond that. We also found that most stalls owners were not present themselves, but had rented out the space to others or were selling commodities other than those permitted by their licence.”
 
 
 
 Over the weekend, I decided to come here with my friends to shop. We planned our visit and thought the shops would open at 11.30 am, but were are in for a rude shock!
 
 
 
 I was to shop at Colaba but as I wanted to purchase some reasonably priced t-shirts and footwear, I came here because it has more options. In hindsight, I feel going there would have been a lot better. I wasted my day off here.
 
 
 
 It’s the first time I’ve come here to shop and was really looking forward to this. Given that it is not the peak season and I reached early, I thought, I’ll get some good deals.
 
 
 
 I was accompanying a group of female friends who wanted to purchase a few knick-knacks and accessories. However, the scene we witnessed was a huge let-down. It’s not fair on the shoppers and owners here.
 
 
 
 
