BAREILLY/ SHAHJAHANPUR: As the nomination process began on Friday, as many as 70 sets of papers were taken by 54 candidates. However, no nomination paper was filed. What attracted attention was that two   leaders — Veerpal Singh Yadav, who was SP district president till Wednesday, and Sabir Ansari — took   each on party’s name for Bithari Chainpur constituency.
 
  Similarly, from Cantonment seat, SP’s mayor I S Tomar is said to have taken one set of nomination papers as an independent candidate.
  
  In the morning, Jafar Beg’s name was declared in SP’s list of candidates but by the afternoon, two of the 191 names declared in SP’s candidates’ list were put on hold. These were that of Beg and Anil Sharma from Cantonment and City constituencies, respectively.
  
  When contacted, mayor Tomar denied taking nomination papers. He said, “I have not taken nomination papers and if has been done in my name, somebody is intentionally trying to defame me. I know that person, who did it. He belongs to my own party but can’t reveal his name as I have to get evidence first.
  
  “I am not in a hurry to file nomination without my party announcing my name. Moreover, I am going to contest an election. Two names of Cantt and City constituencies will be replaced very soon as they have been cancelled.”
  
  When Sabir Ansari was asked why he had taken the nomination papers, he said, “In the list released by Mulayam Singh Yadav, my name was declared as SP candidate from Bhithari Chainpur. So as a precautionary step, I took a set of nomination papers. As our party has cancelled two names, if similar development takes place at my constituency, I will file the nomination.”
  
  On the first day of nomination process, the maximum 11 nomination papers were taken for City constituency while only one was taken for Aonla constituency. From City constituency, BJP’s sitting MLA Arun Kumar, BSP’s Anees Ahmed, CPI’s Tarkeshwar Chaturvedi, Tribhuvan Kumar of   and seven independents took the nomination papers.
  
  For Cantonment constituency, BJP’s sitting MLA Rajesh Agrawal, BSP’s candidate Rajendra Gupta and seven others took the papers.
  
  In Shahajahanpur, BSP candidate from Katra constituency Rajeev Kashyap filed his nomination on Friday. Rajeev Kashyap is a popular face in Katra constituency. In the last assembly polls, he was initially declared a winner by a narrow margin but the SP contestant requested for recounting of votes. After recounting, SP’s nominee was declared winner by approximately 800 votes. SP formed the government in the state and the matter was closed without much attention.
