JAIPUR: On Friday, the city witnessed the best rain of the season. The downpour, coming after a  , was a welcome one.

 However, for the homeless and people living in shanties, it spelled misery as all their belongings, including food, were drenched in the downpour.
 
 They had also not heard of the state government’s   Patta Vitaran Yojana campaign, held from April to June this year, which gave legal rights to property and plots for the homeless.
 
 In a survey, conducted by   (PUCL) in collaboration with the   (CES), to assess the condition of those living in shanties after the Friday’s rain, People’s Union for Civil Liberties, in collaboration with Centre of Equity Studies, it was found that the people living in city slums were unaware of the government campaign to provide legal titles of land to the homeless.
 
 Many slum dwellers belong to denotified tribes (DNTs or tribes that belonged to the British government had a list of “criminal tribes”). Among the residents of shanties are also poor Dalit families. The survey team visited the Banjara-dominant basti of Bambala Puliya, the slum in Vidhyadhar Nagar where many Bairwa and Mali families live, Bais Godam and the 200 Feet Bypass Road slum.
 
 None of the nearly 400 people surveyed had heard of the Deen Dayal Upadhyay campaign. Despite an order from the Rajasthan High Court last year, that all denotified tribes must be provided housing by the state to correct the historic wrong, nothing has been done yet.
 
 In many shanties, plastic sheets that had served as roofing were blown away in the wind. Poor drainage had flooded the narrow paths and homes. Many families went hungry as waterlogging didn’t spare cooking stoves or flour kept on the ground.
 
 At the slum near Bais Godam flyover, one man said, “We will now have JDA officials to deal with. They have been threatening us with eviction from this site.”
 
 Rupal Sharma, a student of OP Jindal University in Haryana who was part of the survey team, said, “We found high morbidity. The stagnant water and poor levels of cleanliness predispose these people to ill health.”
 
 
