NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court on Friday slammed the Union as well as the Uttarakhand government for doing “nothing concrete” to clean the  , while observing that a lot of effort was going into tracing the “invisible”   but the visible river was getting no attention.

 The division bench of justices   and Alok Singh took a stern view of “non-implementation” of various measures it had ordered on December 2, 2016 to clean the Ganga River. On Friday, the bench again issued a set of directions, including closing down of plastic manufacturing units not complying with law. Several factories, hotels and other establishments are still releasing waste into the river.
 
 District magistrates (DMs) of 12 out of 13 districts of Uttarakhand were present in the court along with senior officials from Union ministry of environment, water resources.
 
 The bench while addressing the officials said, “It seems nothing concrete is being done for a visible river like Ganga, while search is going on for Saraswati River, which is invisible.”
 
 “The Ganga should be saved for the generations to come,” the court added.
 
 The court also asked Haridwar DM SA Murugeshan to ensure that all the industries/hotels/commercial establishments and educational institutions discharging effluent directly into Ganga are shut down within a week. “The drains opening into the river are also ordered to be sealed and closed within one week,” the bench said.
 
 The court also expressed “serious displeasure” over the manner in which Uttarakhand State Pollution Control Board has acted. The bench then asked the state government to take “stern action” against the state board. 
 
 The court also said that the Central Pollution Control Board may take over the functions of state pollution board if it fails in discharging its duties. “The Central government is directed to order the Central Pollution Control Board to perform the functions of the Uttarakhand PCB in case of non-compliance of the statutory provisions as well as for not enforcing sufficient measures to protect the Ganga River within three months,” the order said.
 
 Taking note of the rampant use of banned plastic bags, the court directed the Uttarakhand government to act against its manufactures in accordance with law and to ensure to make the hill state “plastic free”.
 
 Praveen Kumar, director of National Mission for Clean Ganga, told the court that “an   for the riparian states, through which the Ganga flows, will be formed exclusively to revive the river within a period of four weeks.”
 
 On December 2, last year, taking serious note of alleged irregularities in the use of funds allocated to clean the river, the HC had ordered a special audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of expenses related to various schemes to clean Ganga. The HC had also ordered the CAG report to be submitted to the President of India within six months.
 
