MANALI: The ancient village of Naggar in  , which was once the capital of the princely Kullu state, was announced to be made the third heritage village of Himachal Pradesh after Pragpur and Kalpa by the state government about 15 years back, but it is still waiting for an official notification in this regard.

 Most people and government departments, including department of tourism, address Naggar as “heritage village” but government departments have not received any such notification so far. The government had announced to spend crores of rupees to preserve its old architecture, cobbled streets, temples and castle and develop it as a tourism destination but nothing special has been done so far. The village doesn’t even have a public toilet, proper sewerage and adequate parking.
 
 Naggar came into limelight after famous Russian painter, scientist, artist and philosopher   made the it his permanent village and built a house here. He made thousands of popular paintings here and gave the banner of peace to the world. Many renowned personalities, including  ,   and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, have spent quality time here. The village houses a Roerich art gallery, a castle, ancient temples and old houses made with traditional architecture.
 
 In the name of development, a small parking and a stage has been built and the castle has been renovated. To make the village a heritage property in real sense, ancient structures of the village were to be protected and all basic facilities like drainage, proper parking and lighting and garbage collection and disposal facilities were to be provided.
 
 Many tourists visit Naggar to see the castle and Roerich art gallery. In 2004, the state government had announced to spend huge amount on Naggar with help of tourism department and central government to attract tourists here. Villagers rue that lakhs of rupees were spent on an irrigation scheme to take water from Naggar to Archhandi village and now the water transport system had been choked with garbage and silt. They blamed that water was entering the orchards of villagers, affecting many trees, but nobody was paying attention despite complaints.
 
 Language, art and culture officer at Kullu Promila Guleria confirmed that no notification has been received regarding making Naggar a heritage village. “I do not have any such information. I will try to collect more information about announcement, if any, and actions taken in this regard,” she added.
 
