Patna: The   order on Monday to reinstate criminal conspiracy charges against RJD chief   in the   set the political pot boiling in the state. Since Lalu’s RJD is the biggest party in the grand alliance government in Bihar, members of the ruling as well as opposition parties in the state are waiting with fingers crossed for Bihar CM   to react to the situation.
 
  Political pundits believe the SC order has deepened the crisis for Lalu, especially in the wake of repeated allegations of benami properties amassed by his family and allegedly remaining in contact with jailed strongman and former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin.
  
  Former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said, “With so many controversies surrounding Lalu, who will remain busy appearing in fodder scam cases at different places in Bihar and Jharkhand, it will be all the more comforting situation for Nitish as he will face less pressure from the RJD chief in transfer-posting of officers and interference in other governance-related matters.”
  
  However, the ruling JD(U) as well as the RJD ruled out any impact of the SC order on the coalition government. Former Rajya Sabha member and Lalu’s associate Shivanand Tiwari said the BJP dreams of breaking the grand alliance government will never come true. “Though the SC order will escalate trouble for Lalu, it is no way affecting the alliance in Bihar. JD(U) and RJD will continue fighting together against the BJP, which is trying to break the country in the name of religion,” Tiwari said.
  
  RJD spokesperson and a close Lalu aide, Bhola Yadav said the apex court order would have no impact on the grand alliance. “Lalu is already on bail in the fodder scam cases and the Supreme Court order only talks about independent trials in the cases. Hence, there would not be any impact of it either on Lalu or the GA government,” Bhola said.
  
  JD(U) general secretary Shyam Rajak also ruled out any impact of the apex court order on the state government. “We are united and will continue with the state development works,” said Rajak.
  
  As things stand now in the state assembly, RJD has 80 members, followed by JD(U) with 71 and Congress 27. Thus, the grand alliance has 178 MLAs. The BJP, on the other hand, has 57 MLAs followed by LJP and RLSP with two each and HAM-S one. In case of a split in the grand alliance and Nitish joining the BJP-led NDA, Bihar CM will have the support of 133 MLAs against 123 required to prove majority in the assembly.
