BIJNOR: Even after expenditure of Rs 1061 crore on phase-2 of Madhya Ganga canal project, a major irrigation project approved in 2008 for the benefit of farmers in Budaun, Bulandshahr, Moradabad, Amroha and Ghaziabad districts, farmers have not received a single drop of water till date. 

 The construction work on this project had begun nine years ago. According to officials, the work has stopped due lack of funds and the estimated cost of the project has now risen to Rs 4700 crore. However, according to them, the central government has not sanctioned the revised budget and the work has been halted for the past two years.
 
  Bhartiya Kisan Union national spokesperson   said, “The farmers have been anxiously waiting for years for water from this canal. But so far, their hopes have been belied.” 
 
  The work on this ambitious project, which includes a 66km-long main canal and 250 km of smaller canals beginning from Ganga barrage in  , began in 2007-08. The initial estimate of the budget, Rs 1061 crore was revised to Rs 1140 crore in 2011. Various other factors also contributed to delay of the project which is still only 50% complete. However, the initial budget amount of Rs 1061 crore has been exhausted.
 
  In the meanwhile, the project officials revised the budget to Rs 2266 crore in 2011 and Rs 4700 crore recently, but the government refused to sanction it.
  SP  , former executive engineer of Madhya Ganga canal, told TOI, “Right from the beginning of the project, irrigation authorities committed irregularities in the project. They did not acquire the entire land for the project. Later, prices of the land jumped up to four times after the new Land Acquisition Act was passed by the Centre. I complained against the officials several times. On Tuesday, I have again sent a complaint to the district magistrate asking him to set up an inquiry into this.”
 
  “Besides, the project was not designed properly before the start of the work. As a result, some parts of the canal constructed so far have begun to collapse. A few bridges built on this canal have been damaged in the rainy season,” Saini added.
 
  A Meerut-based senior project official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Even if we get the entire revised budget, we will have to spend its 75% on acquiring the land. On April 27, there was a presentation of our projects of the irrigation department in Lucknow, including the Madhya Ganga canal phase-2. CM   expressed anger over the fact that the project wasn’t competed yet and its cost has jumped many-fold.” 
 
  The official added, “The central government has declined to provide more money for this project and has made it clear that the state government can take loan from NABARD if it wants to complete the project. The UP government is mulling to approach to the rural development bank now.”
 
  Sharad Saurabh Giri, acting executive engineer of Madhya Ganga canal, said, “The work has been stopped. Higher authorities were sent a proposal of revised budget of Rs 4700 crore. It is to be provided by central and state governments. We are waiting for the budget.”
