AURANGABAD: Panicky villagers from  , about 65km from here, rushed to the local health centre on Saturday after they realised that they had consumed milk of two cows that died of dog bite. 

 About 81 villagers were administered rabies vaccine after they complained of uneasiness and nausea. Many villagers panicked after they realised that they had consumed the milk for the past few days without boiling it. 
 
 Ashabai Sudhakar Vispute, sarpanch of Dhanora village, said that about 8-10 days back, two cows owned by  , a resident of the same village, were bitten by a stray dog reportedly suffering from rabies. Despite this, Kakde continued to supply milk to the villagers. 
 
 “Many villagers, including those from the underprivileged sections consumed the milk. Some of them had consumed the milk without boiling it and thus the sense of insecurity started gripping them since Friday,” she said. 
 
 Though, initially, only four villagers had reported uneasiness, others started trooping into the health centre after they came to know about the death of the two cows. Sources told TOI that the PHC was running short of vaccines on Saturday and the authorities had to arrange it from other centres.
 
 Vivek Kamble, taluka health officer of Sillod told TOI on Sunday, that the situation was under control and no one was infected. “As soon as we received the information, the villagers were given anti-rabies vaccination as a preventive measure. But it seems that the villagers are in shock after the death of the cows. However, we are carrying out counselling,” he said.
 
 A team of veterinarians from the district animal husbandry department visited the village on Sunday to convince the villagers that milk of dog-bitten cow has no immediate effect on humans. 
 
 V H Kamble, assistant commissioner of animal husbandry department, said all the villagers are safe. “They are all in a shock following the death of the cows. The villagers need proper counselling and thus our team is meeting each villager. We are also telling them that they should boil milk before consuming it,” he said. 
 
  Sillod MLA Abdul Sattar and Aurangabad Zilla Parishad president Shriram Mahajan also visited the village. 
 
