MUMBAI: The   quashed as “totally perverse’’ an order of a special court in Pune that last month sent a woman lawyer straight away to judicial custody for allegedly “harbouring offenders’’ in a case of organized crime. The HC granted Pune police, a seven-day custody of the lawyer  .

  Badar faulted the Pune court under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act for “total non-application of mind’’ in the “serious crime’’ and observed how the special judge had “unfortunately in a casual manner’’ reasoned that “after her arrest she cannot be said to be giving shelter to absconding accused”.
 
 “There was voluminous material before the special judge… warranting grant of police custody,” the HC said. Justice Badar in his January 10 order held that the Pune court seemed to have “totally ignored’’ a CD of phone conversations between the accused and a co-accused and witnesses, the transcript of which “prima facie’’ shows she was getting a “share from earnings of the organized crime syndicate and she was an active member of that syndicate”.
 
 The state had moved the HC to challenge a December 6, 2016 order of the   court rejecting a remand plea by   in a 2015 case. 
 
 The police case is that a syndicate headed by Bapu Nair would illegally fence and take possession of vacant plots in Pune and extort huge sums from owners. In December 2015, Nilesh Botra filed an FIR alleging an extortion demand of Rs 5 lakh to free 14 gunthas in Kondhwa owned by his wife and sister-in-law. The FIR, under IPC, Arms Act and MCOCA, did not name Phadke as an accused.
 
 Additional public prosecutor Pallavi Dabholkar argued police had evidence that Phadke committed an offence by “harbouring offenders and getting their release”. She said Phadke filed “a false affidavit before a magistrate” citing a HC stay on proceedings when police sought to arrest two “accused Rani Nair and Jyoti Nair, wife of Bapu Nair” last November. Dabholkar said “calls between her and co-accused Bapu Nair demonstrate she is a member of the organised crime”. 
 
 Phadke’s counsel Ashok Mundargi defended the Pune court order. He said there was no case of harbouring a 'member' of an organised crime gang made out against Phadke nor was she accused of being a member or commiting organized crime. 
 
 The police had arrested four persons, including Nair. Rani and Jyoti moved the HC for return of their seized four-wheeler and against proclamation process which the police had initiated. Phadke represented them before the HC in several proceedings, observed Justice Badar. The HC had last September stayed the proclamation proceedings, but not their arrest, he observed.
 
 The HC said prima facie the phone transcripts and witness statements indicate Phadke was “not merely acting as an advocate of co-accused but…was helping them in their illegal activities”. In a 21-page order, Justice Badar said, “ The crime in question was affecting societal interest and as such, it was expected of the judge to be more cautious and sensitive while dealing with such application moved by the investigator.”
 
 
