INDORE: Amidst shortage of faculty members in all the existing six government medical colleges, the   government has applied to the ministry of health for starting admission in 800 MBBS seats at seven new government medical colleges for the academic session 2018-19. While the medical college starting in Ratlam and Vidisha will offer admission at 150 seats each, medical college in Chindwara, Shivpuri, Datia, Khandwa and Shahdol will offer admission at 100 seats each.

 “All the colleges have submitted fees of Rs 3.5 lakh along with completing the formalities to apply for starting admission at MBBS seats for next academic session,” the in-charge dean of Ratlam Medical Collage Dr Sanjay Dixit told TOI.
 
 He added the medical university ( ) has provided letter of consent of affiliation while the state government has also provided its consent for the new medical colleges. “The construction work of all the new medical colleges and procurement of the medical equipment is underway,” Dr Dixit said.
 
 He added teams of   (MCI) will visit at all the new medical colleges in November for inspection. All seven new medical colleges will be attached with the district hospital while the central and state government will spend Rs 190 crore/year in a ratio of 60:40 for commencement of each of these colleges.
 
 “The process of recruiting staff will be started after MCI’s inspection,” Dr Dixit said.
 
 The state government has planned to dissolve the autonomous status of all six existing medical colleges and merge them under the medical college state authority as proposed in Madhya Pradesh Medical, Dental Colleges and Associated Hospitals (government) Management Bill, 2017.
 
 Madhya Pradesh Medical Teachers’ Association has been protesting against this bill.
 
 “While all the existing medical colleges are already facing deficiency of faculty members of up to 10 per cent, it will be big challenge for the government to arrange for faculty of the new medical colleges,” MPPTA’s secretary, Dr Rahul Rokade said.
 
 He added that recruiting staff by making autonomous body at the college is the only solution. “13 associations of nursing, grade III, IV and paramedical staff are supporting us in our protest against dissolving the autonomous model of the medical colleges. The students and patients will suffer,” Dr Rokade added.
 
