SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Wednesday decided to enhance   to women employees of the state government from the existing 135 days to 180 days. It also approved appointment of Indian   wicketkeeper   of Shimla rural constituency as DSP as a special case against 3% reservation under direct recruitment for distinguished sportspersons.

 A cabinet meeting held here was chaired by chief minister Virbhadra Singh. It decided to reserve one seat for single girl child in PG (MD/MS) courses in government medical colleges under the state quota seats.
 
 Keeping in view the litigation and related costs involved, a decision was taken to establish a three-tier system of ‘dispute, resolution, process’ in the irrigation and public health department. It is viewed as an effective method in settling disputes between contractors and department concerned or between two or more parties.
 
 The cabinet approved framing of policy for special educator under school management committee to bring him on par with JBT teachers appointed on contract basis. Nod was also given to open HPPWD division at Ner Chowk in Mandi district, along-with creation of 20 posts under various categories for manning the division. 
 
 A decision was taken to convert 530 gram panchayat veterinary assistants on contract basis working under Mukhya Mantri Arogya Pashudhan Yojna and who have been in service for five years. It also approved filling of various teaching faculty posts in newly upgraded schools in Solan, Mandi, Sirmaur, Shimla, Bilaspur and Kullu districts.
 
 The cabinet decided to fill 9 posts of assistant engineers (civil) and one post of assistant engineer (mechanical) in irrigation and public health department, 50 posts of junior office assistant (IT) in treasury, accounts and lottery department on contract basis.
 
 It accorded approval to 11 posts of teaching faculty and 11 posts of non-teaching faculty for architecture discipline in Rajiv Gandhi Government Engineering College, Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra district, three posts of assistant professor (pharmacy) and one post of assistant librarian on contract basis in  , Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra district, to create six posts of assistant professor and a post of assistant librarian at Government Degree College, Pangi in Chamba district on contract basis.
 
 It gave its approval to create and fill 18 posts under various categories in Government Degree College, Thachi in Mandi district.
 
