On Tuesday evening, Anirban Roy, a young software developer, realised he did not have enough Rs 100 notes on him. He had to do the groceries on Wednesday morning, but before that, he had to organise his dinner. The local restaurant would not accept cards and he could not part with his scarce `100 notes. Finally, he got his food home-delivered by a restaurantfinding app.
Like Anirban, hundreds are faced with a similar crisis. Most home delivery systems have stopped accepting `500 and `1,000 notes and the ones who are still taking the currency notes, are refusing to give change. For one,   and Swiggy are encouraging customers to pay online and have come up with attractive discounts. Zomato is offering 15% discount on their online payment. “We have decided not to accept the banned notes, but customers are free to pay by cards,“ said an official at Zomato.Swiggy , on the other hand, has cancelled its cash-on-delivery service indefinitely. “We are yet to take a decision on how long this will continue,“ said an official at Swiggy . The service providers agreed that since most prefer COD over online payment, this is bound to affect their business for a day or two.
 
 Rajesh Yadav, a delivery man, said that since Wednesday morning the number of order is much less than the usual day. “Aged people are very sceptical about online pay ment and they are the one suf fering the most,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, all the big eateries on   have made an official announcement that the banned notes will not be accepted at their joints. Manager of Tung Fong, Thomas Lim, said their business will get hampered as people are out of cash. Other places like Flurys and Au Bon Pain, however, are hopeful that card payments will lead to smooth operations. For day-to-day stuff, we head to local eateries. These places are unable to provide us with the change,“ said Ritam Mitra from  .
 
 In small Chinese, biryani and Bengali food joints, cash is the only means of financial transaction. Pintu Das, the owner and cashier of Jadavpur-based Monalisa  , said that he had stocked up `10,000 in `100 notes, but has already spent half of it. “I need these notes for my personal use too,“ said Pintu.
 
 “I can exchange the old notes tomorrow, but I do not have enough cash to run the shop today . So, I am allowing the known customers to eat on credit,“ said the owner of a pice hotel on SN Banerjee Road.
 
