CHENNAI: Two senior IPS officers, both victims of prolonged suspension from service, albeit for different reasons, got relief on Thursday, when the Madras high court delivered separate judgments quashing their suspension and ordering their reinstatement.

 In the case of M S  , the once powerful intelligence chief of TN and an additional director general of police cadre officer, the bench of Justice K K Sasidharan and Justice V Parthiban rapped the government and the   (CAT).It ordered the government to reinstate the officer and offer him a post by January 18.
 
 For Pramodkumar, an ADGP-rank officer under su spension since May 2012, the bench quashed the charge memo and disciplinary proceedings and revoked his suspension, paving the way for his immediate reinstatement.
 
 Sait, a1986 batch IPS officer, has been serving suspension for more than five years and five months, on the charge that he helped some of subordinates acquire housing plots under discretionary quota by creating records and causing loss to the   (TNHB). Sait was also accused of get ting allotment under the discretionary quota in the name of his wife and entering into a joint venture with a builder.
 
 On November 29, 2013, the Centre rejected the state government's request for sanction to prosecute Sait, and on August 6, 2014, the principal secretary to government (home) issued a charge memo to him. When Sait sought copies of documents referred to in the charge memo, it was rejected, forcing him to approach courts.
 
 The Chennai bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on April 19, 2016 directed the state government to fur nish him copies of the documents, and directed it to reinstate him, in short, revoking the suspension. Instead of challenging the order, the state filed a clarification petition, using which the CAT stayed its own final order of reinstatement.
 
 On Thursday , assailing the CAT and government for adopting `a strange procedure', the high court bench said: “The Tribunal adopted a novel device to put its order in cold storage by entertaining clarification petitions and stay petitions. The state, by making use of the interim stay , extended the suspension. The effect is that in spite of the order directing revocation of suspension and reinstatement, the state managed to extend the suspension and keep Sait out of service.“ Holding that the CAT was not correct, the bench said the tribunal had exceeded its jurisdiction by granting a stay order of its own final order April 19, 2016.
 
 As for Pramodkumar, the bench accepted senior counsel  's contention that the chief minister was the competent authority and her approval was required for initiating and issuing charge me mo. The authorities obtained the chief minister's approval on April 5, 2013 for initiating of departmental proceedings for major penalty , but “there is nothing on record to show that file was thereafter produced before the chief minister either for her perusal or for approval of charge memorandum,“ the bench said.
 
 This lacuna proved fatal to the disciplinary action initiated against Pramodkumar, and the bench quashed it on the sole ground of the charge memorandum not having been approved by the chief minister, the competent disciplinary authority .
 
 In the case of both officers, the bench said it was open to the government to post them in non-sensitive posts.
 
