LUCKNOW: With the UP election juggernaut moving from the west and Rohilkhand to the central region, the battle for the state's crown has turned fiercer. The 
  will have a significant bearing on the overall result.

 
  comprises the Yadav belt and state capital Lucknow, where SP nearly swept in 2012, winning 54 out of 69 seats up for grabs. This was even better than BJP's show in the 2014   polls when the saffron party took lead in 52 assembly segments.
 
 Apart from the three Yadav strongholds -Etawah, Kannauj and Mainpuri, the nine other 
  include industrial hub Kanpur, Barabanki and Sitapur.Together, these constituencies gave SP an unbeatable lead in 2012.
 
 The SP family feud had initially threatened the prospects of the ruling party, but with leadership issues appearing settled, and CM Akhilesh Yadav firmly in the saddle, party supporters are in a buoyant mood. Akhilesh himself had addressed seven rallies in Etawah and Mainpuri on Thursday to assure the party's 'core voters' that all was well.
 
 Both BJP and BSP, on the other hand, can hardly do worse than the last time, when they won just six seats each. BJP has fielded a large number of strong turncoats, many of them sitting MLAs of rival parties. 
  , after trying to consolidate Muslim votes, is back to wooing Dalits as 19 of 69 seats in this phase are reserved for SC candidates.
 
 The fate of the three Yadav family members -former minister   from Jaswantnagar, Mulayam's younger daughter-in-law   in   and his nephew Anurag Yadav in Sarojiningar-will be sealed on Sunday. While   won by more than 80,000 votes in 2012 despite visiting the constituency just once, this time he is camping there since the announcement of polls.
 
 Other big names in the fray are former BSP MP Brijesh Pathak, former UP Congress chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi -both on BJP tickets; SP ministers Arvind Singh Gope, Ravidas Mehrotra, Fareed Mehfooz Kidwai, Abhishek Mishra and Aruna Kori; BJP spokesperson H N Dikshit, BJP veteran Lalji Tandon's son Gopalji Tandon. 
 
