CHENNAI: A 54-year-old former manager of a  , who swindled Rs 54 lakh sanctioned as loans to nearly 14 customers of a nationalized bank branch in Thiruvallur and remained elusive for more than 18 months, was on Friday arrested by sleuths of the  .

 A man named Sathyamurthy, former president of the   in Tiruvallur, was also arrested in this connection.
 
 Police said Kannan K Iyer, a native of Mumbai, took over as manager of Central Bank of India’s Thiruvallur branch on June 6, 2011, and remained in the post until April 2013.
 
 During his tenure, a few   approached him for loans meant exclusively for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. After scrutinizing the documents, the manager promised them loans for buying cattle, houses or raising crops.
 
 Within a month, he disbursed loans to the beneficiaries and also obtained their signatures on withdrawal slips.
 
 “The loan amount they had sought was higher than the sum handed over to them,” said I Khadhar Basha, DSP and head of the District Crime Branch.
 
 He only offered them half the sum they had applied for and explained that it was what had been sanctioned. None of the beneficiaries not raised any doubt, a police officer said.
 
 Kannan obtained signatures from the beneficiaries on several documents mentioning the loan amount sanctioned. He also assured them that they would not have to pay EMI (equated monthly instalments) for the first few months.
 
 Later, after Kannan was transferred out of the Tiruvallur branch, the new manager, Ajay Kumar, found that the 14 beneficiaries had defaulted on the repayment and sent notices to all of them. The benefiaciaries, shocked at the amount quoted in the notices, approached the bank manager and the fraud came to light.
 
 They took up the issue with the bank’s higher officials who ordered an internal audit conducted. After the fraud was confirmed, Kannan was dismissed. The defrauded benefeciaries pulled up Kannan who apologised saying he had missappropriated the amount for his sister’s heart surgery. He also gave them an undertaking on a bond paper with his signature. The beneficiaries believed he would return the money.
 
 But in 2015 he went absconding from Mumbai and a police complaint was lodged. The Thiruvallur district crime branch police visited Mumbai at least seven times to get hold of the accused before they succeeded. He was booked under IPC section 406 (Criminal misappropriation of property entrusted to someone) and 420 (cheating).
 
