Manali: With traffic, power and water supplies crippled in snowbound areas of Himachal for almost three weeks now, the residents of tribal Lahaul, are busy invoking their powerful deities. A large number of locals in Lahaul, which used to get heaviest snowfall in the state, are invoking their gods to send them more snow.

 On Wednesday, a large group visited 18 Nag Devta temple at Billing to pray for heavy snowfall. Nag is considered the deity who controls rain and snow. Kullu, Shimla, Chamba and almost all other parts of Himachal have been experiencing good snowfall. Lahaul usually receives 100cm to over 200cm of snow in January, but has received much less. Currently Keylong, the district headquarters, has just 25cm deep snow.
 
 “We need good winter snowfall to have our glaciers rejuvenated and get enough water for irrigation and drinking purpose in summer months. Only Chandra valley (in Lahaul) has enough snow. The residents are worried about the amount of snow we’ll get and have taken shelter of the deities,” claimed Kundan Sharma, a resident of Keylong.
 
 Lahaul valley has witnessed seven spells of snowfall this season in which Keylong has received nearly 70cm of snow till now. Many times, the region experiences over 100cm of snow in just one spell. The entire valley is prone to avalanches but this time there is no such report so far. Winters are so harsh in Lahaul that a thick blanket of snow restricts movement of locals to their houses for days together, but this year people are going everywhere without any problem. The winter season generally lasts till March end.
 
 Meanwhile, the sortie to Lahaul was suspended on the fifth consecutive day. The chopper could not fly and a large number of residents of Lahaul had to return from Bhuntar airport in Kullu. Kendriya Vidyalaya has been waiting for the chopper service so as to bring back its staff who had gone home during winter break. Out of the 15 teachers, 13 had left for home in December and were supposed to return on January 12. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner is also out and would only be able to reach Keylong if the chopper takes off from Kullu.
 
 
