HYDERABAD: Slamming brakes on   (SBI)'s swift journey towards becoming one of the biggest banking players in the world through merger of five of its subsidiary banks and its 'hasty' efforts to assimilate officers through an options route,   on Thursday directed   not to finalise or act on the options given by officers of subsidiary banks. 

 The Centre merged five banks, State Bank of Hyderabad, State Bank of Travancore, State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, State Bank of Mysore and State Bank of Patiala with SBI through a notification on February 22. But employees and officers of subsidiary banks are nurturing apprehensions about working conditions in the new dispensation which is now seeking options from them.
 
 Justice P Naveen Rao, who heard a lunch motion moved by P T M Gopalakrishna and eight other officers of SBH and  , directed SBI chairman, Union   ministry and RBI not to act on options given by subsidiary officers till June 15. Officers have given their options as the SBI management gave them little time and the deadline to comply with the options norm too expired on April 13, the petitioners said. They expressed apprehension they may not be treated on par with SBI employees despite they ending up as employees of same entity. 
 
 Arguing the case of petitioners, senior counsel R Vaigai who flew to Hyderabad from Chennai, told court the SBI management has not yet spelt out clearly on new working conditions for subsidiary officers. It sought options in very short time and all of them submitted options without knowing about their future, she said. There was no clarity on seniority, pension and terminal benefits, she said. It is unlawful to set a deadline for exercising options without clarifying what they actually would mean, she said.
 
 None of the subsidiary officers was heard before deciding their future, she said. Employees were forced to give options and all of them had given their options on Thursday, the last date, she said. The judge too said there was a need to extend cut-off date and sought a counter from authorities on plans. SBI counsel M Narender Reddy assured the court that SBI would act in a fair manner. Even SBI would not be able to finalise options given by subsidiary officers, he said. The case will come up for hearing again in the first week of June.
 
