PATNA: Patna would soon have a ‘palace’ developed as star category heritage hotel. Senior officials in tourism department said  , commonly known as ‘Parivahan Bhavan’, has been handed over to the department and the groundwork has begun for developing it into a star category hotel.

 Located on Beer Chand Patel Path in the heart of the state capital, Sultan Palace houses the headquarters of   (BSRTC) at present.
 
 Tourism department director   said the formalities for transfer of Sultan Palace has been completed and bidding process has been initiated for selecting a consultant, which would assist the department in taking the project forward.
 
 “The headquarters of BSRTC would be shifted to another location and we would upgrade Sultan Palace into a heritage hotel or resort to meet the present day expectations of the tourists. The upgradation would focus on improvement in the facilities in the existing structure. Accordingly, we are in the process of selecting a consultant to act as transaction adviser to sensitize the potential investors and developers, review project structure and carry out bid process for the project. The project would be executed through PPP (public-private partnership) mode,” said Umashankar.
 
 Built in 1922, the Sultan Palace took two years to complete with an outlay of Rs 3 lakh – quite a lavish sum at that time. With a high-domed tower in the centre, domed pavilions at the corners, minarets and multi-foliated arches in the façade, the palace is an impressive rendition of Islamic architecture.
 
 It was the residence of Sir Sultan Ahmad, a renowned advocate and judge in Patna high court. One of the most eminent citizens of Patna, Sir Sultan Ahmad was first Indian vice-chancellor of   and was appointed a member of the Viceroy’s Executive Council in 1937. The ‘haveli’ was divided into two parts – the front for males and the rear for females.
 
 Sources claimed that the selected transaction advisor for development of Sultan Palace as heritage hotel or resort would be responsible for preparing feasibility report, estimate revenue, ways for maximisation of revenue and design investment promotion strategy for the project.
 
 Apart from Sultan Palace, the tourism department is also working on plans for developing Rizwan Castle on Dak Bungalow Crossing as heritage hotel. Tourism department director said the process for transfer of Rizwan Castle is underway at present.
 
 Built in the early twentieth century, the edifice was designed on the lines of Scottish Tudor castles with bastions at the corners, battlements on the top and cross-shaped designs on the tracery. It was the residence of Hassan Imam (1871-1933), a leading lawyer of Patna.
 
