NEW DELHI: Observing that   (NDMC) had not been fair in its approach towards Tata group-run Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL) while deciding to auction the iconic   hotel, the   asked the civic body to review its decision.

 A bench of Justices Pinaki Chandra Ghose and Rohinton F Nariman said the opinions given by the top two legal officers of the country—the attorney general and the solicitor general—were not considered by the authority while taking a decision to auction the property and the NDMC must review its decision in light of that.
 
 The law officers had suggested that NDMC hold negotiations with the Tata group to determine the market price to grant lease to the company to run the hotel and opined against putting the property under the hammer.
 
 IHCL had constructed the hotel building and started commercial operation of the hotel from October 10, 1978. The agreement period of 33 years is reckoned from the said date.
 
 The agreement expired in 2011 and NDMC decided to auction the property, hoping to fetch a better price for the lease. The company approached high court which dismissed its plea in October last year and allowed the civic body to auction the property.
 
 Challenging the HC order, the company told the SC bench that it was ready to pay the market price but insisted that the hotel should not be auctioned as it would prop up the price to an artificial level. Senior advocate  , appearing for the company, said that the AG, the SG and even an independent consultant had advised NDMC against auction.
 
 Additional solicitor general  , however, said the civic body was not against the company and it could participate in the bidding process. He said auction was the best way to fetch a good price for the property. “We considered the plea of the company forlease extension but came to the conclusion that auction is the best way to go forward,” he said.
 
 The court, after hearing both sides, said the NDMC decision needed to be reviewed and granted six weeks time to the civic body to take a fresh decision after considering opinions given by the law officers.
 
 The HC had held that IHCL had “no right under the licence” for renewal of its lease or even the right to first refusal and said that NDMC was “within its power” to secure maximum consideration for grant of licence for the property. The HC had held that collaboration between NDMC and IHCL for the hotel was not a joint venture, as claimed by the company.
 
 Challenging the HC order, the company moved the apex court which had directed the parties to maintain status quo and allowed the company to operate the hotel till it adjudicates the dispute.
 
 
