KOLKATA: Eighty-year-old Gita Roy shudders every time she recalls how she was attacked by a snatcher right in front of her house on Thursday morning. The bruises and the physical pain from the fall when the snatcher grabbed and pulled her gold chain will heal in the next few days. But the mental scar left by the incident will take long to heal. Shocked, scared and traumatized, the octogenarian now refuses to step out of home.

 “I start getting palpitations every now and then. If the snatcher was keeping tabs on me, he could be aware that I live alone with my ailing husband. If he could dare to attack during the day, he can very well break into our house at night,” says the senior citizen who lives in Salt Lake’s BA Block. 
 
 Gita was walking back home form CA market on Thursday morning when she was attacked. It was around 10 in the morning, there were people on the road and the attack took place right on her doorstep. 
 
 “We have been living in   since 1972. I used to hear about incidents of snatching and robberies in the satellite township, but I never imagined that I would become a victim. Thank God I escaped with only minor bruises from. At my age, I could have ended up getting fractures,” she says. 
 
 There have been such incidents in the locality earlier too. Bhakti Ghosh (79) who lives a few buildings away from the Roys, has twice been a victim. 
 
 “Both incidents happened early in the morning. I have become extremely shaky and have stopped going out for walks. I had lodged complaints on both occasions. Police should have been more vigilant and proactive to deter the miscreants,” says Ghosh. 
 
 The township has a sizeable number of senior citizens living alone. But with a slum in the neighbouring locality, the elderly residents of blocks like AA, BA, CA and DA are the most vulnerable. “I could be the victim next. The locality has become unsafe. It is high time the administration and police take measures to ensure we live without fear,” said Runu Pal, a retired college teacher who lives alone in BA Block.
 
