Nagpur: In the nineties, youngsters had to move out of their hometown, especially in Vidarbha, in search of employment. However, the situation has changed substantially over the last few years with the initiative of chief   Devendra Fadnavis to train youngsters in skill development and create job opportunities at their native places, said Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar, Maharashtra minister for labour, on Saturday. 

 In his keynote address after inaugurating the Youth Empowerment Summit organized jointly by Fortune Foundation, Engineering College Placement Association ( ) and   at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Nilangekar said that such programmes give impetus to start-ups and job creation. He said that he often comes across youth disillusioned due to instability that sets in due to a plethora of problems. In such cases, empowerment summits act as a booster and rekindle hope in youngsters as they get to learn a lot and start looking ahead, Nilangekar said.
 
 The skill development minister suggested that career counselling centres should be opened in every municipal block of the state. This was done in Thane which worked wonders. Such centres will show the young generation to get down to business and contribute to development of the country, he added. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar said, “The summit was serving the purpose of empowering the youth as it gave them the direction they needed the most at this stage of their life.” The state and central governments have launched various skills development projects for educated youth who should now use them to the fullest, just like a sculptor does, she added. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that he spoke to top honchos of leading hospitality companies and found that there was a vast scope for manpower for bottom level jobs. Following this, he and his team of officials launched an online screening portal for career counselling for which more than 3,000 youth applied.
 
 Major companied which have put up stalls for aspiring candidates included L & T India, Godrej, Idea Money, Axis Group, Airtel 4G, Eureka Forbes, YOMA Multi-National Ltd, Vanra Soft Technologies, ESAF Microfinance and Investment Pvt Ltd, Dish TV, OTW Solutions, Vodafone M.Paisa, SBI Cards, Navabarath Fertilizers Ltd and  , besides others. Experts from banking, finance services, insurance and vocational training sectors were present to guide the visitors.
 
 Sunil Bhardwaj, general secretary of skill development department, New Delhi,  , MLA, Sandeep Jadhav, chairman of NMC standing committee and  , president of Fortune Foundation, were present.
 
 (Reporting by Uday Naidu)
 
 
