HYDERABAD: The roads in   seem to be bursting at the seams, thanks to the mushrooming encroachments on the few existing footpaths. This never-ending problem has defied solutions despite the authorities conducting special drives to remove the encroaching vendors and business establishments. In the last five months alone, more than 1,100 big and small shops have been fined.

 It is mostly the small shops that have been penalised under the Consumer Protection Act under which they are fined Rs 300 to Rs 1,000. Only 74 bigger establishments were pulled up under the GHMC Act and fined up to Rs 3,000.
 
 “Encroachment of footpaths is a big menace, especially near the railway station. There are too many hawkers competing for space with the thousands of people coming and going from the station every day. But the situation is slowly changing as we are trying to relocate hawkers to the vending zone,” said LS Chowhan, deputy commissioner of police, North Zone.
 
 The Secunderabad police said they have completely banned hawkers during peak time. “The hawkers are only allowed to sell their products between 2pm and 4pm. The rest of the time, they are supposed to sell only in the vending zone near the in-gate of the railway station and Palike Bazar,” said   traffic inspector B. Ramaswamy. He added that the highest number of   violations are found in these areas.
 
 But that doesn’t give a clean chit to other locations in Secunderabad. Areas such as Subhash Road, Old Gandhi Hospital road, Bollaram bus stop, Palike Bazar, Monda Market, RP Road and SG Road, among others, are also teeming with shops that have taken over the footpaths.
 
 “I have been residing in Musheerabad for two decades. In most of the surrounding areas, there is hardly any   left for us to walk on. Not just hawkers, government and private institutions are also culprits as they use footpaths as parking lots,” said   P, a techie.
 
 Add to that the fact that the city has only 350km footpaths against 10,000km of roads. And the problem of encroachments is so huge that no GHMC official could venture an estimate about the areas encroached.
 
 “The main problem is with movable encroachers as they come back within a few hours. Solving the problem permanently is a Herculean task,” said B  , GHMC assistant commissioner, Secunderabad. Officials said that they removed about 200 unmovable encroachments in the past week in Secunderabad.
 
