NEW DELHI: The journey is a test of grit and determination and a show of piety. The  , weighed down by pots holding water from the Ganga at  , walk almost 40 kilometres each day, most of them preferring to traverse the distance barefoot. Bruised feet and shoulders are the least of their problems. Several are felled by stomach bugs, many others by dehydration and fatigue. But the   soldier on. 

  “It is a trial of faith and once you complete the   successfully, your wish is granted by Lord Shiva. The yatra also gives you inner peace and that is what inspires devotees to undertake the gruelling walk every year,” said Rishipal Yadav, a devotee.
 
  The kanwar yatra is indeed the Shiva bhakt’s gratitude for wishes granted or undertaken in penance in the hope of some boon being granted by the poison-ingesting destroyer of the Hindu trinity. In mythology, Lord Shiva nobly swallowed the poison released by the churning of the oceans and the gods offered him Ganga water to lessen the bite of the toxin. Ever since, people carry water from the Ganga and take to their own temples to offer to Shiva.
 
  Among the estimated seven lakh from Delhi who annually undergo the week-long privations, a majority are people living on the margins of society. For the kanwariyas from such sections, the yatra gives them a little more than just spiritual succour. It is a special time of the year when they feel empowered, a period when social standing no longer matters. “Everybody is a devotee of Lord Shiva, and his or her class and caste slips into insignificance,” said Chaudhary Premjit of Balaji Seva Sanstha, which is running a camp for kanwariyas at Laxmi Nagar in east Delhi.
  At this time, therefore, even those who are treated as inferiors throughout the year see themselves as socially equal to everyone, this being evidenced in the way they are addressed. Nobody is called by name or surname. That would betray caste. So, each is ‘Bhole’ to the other. The policemen, who intimidate them daily, now facilitate their dominance of the roads. The government, businesses and industries go all out to guarantee them food and comfort. This year, 116 camps have been set up in the capital with funds from Delhi government. Many others have come courtesy companies, trusts and NGOs.
 
  In this brief period in the month of Sawan, the kanwariyas like to believe they are kings of the thoroughfares. This sense of power is elating and the marginalised youth look forward to the yatra, often asserting their days-long right with aggression. This year, that expression has taken on the keener edge of nationalism. “We are proud to be devotees of Lord Shiva, proud to be Hindus and proud to be Indians, so why not showcase our feelings?” asked Rishi Prasad, who held aloft the tricolour, on the stretch between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh.
  Around Prasad, there was a profusion of the saffron, white and green of the Indian flag amid the dominating Hindu hue of saffron. Many of the national flags were several metres long, visually depicting the might of the nation. Patriotic songs, added Prasad, “give us the strength to help us power on”. While many undertake the yatra out of personal faith, others are now clearly getting involved in the annual pilgrimage to assert their political-religious identity.
 
  In this mix of devotion to god and country, there are others too from affluent families and professions. The kanwariyas travel in raucous groups in cars and mini-trucks on specially barricaded portions of the national highways to Haridwar and Gaumukh and then walk home with the Ganga water on their shoulders. The protocol for transmitting the holy water contained in the kanwars to their hometowns is decided by the devotee’s chosen code of difficulty.
 
  “Kanwariyas are very particular about the type of kanwar they want to carry as each is related to a different level of devotion,” explained Narinder Rathi, who himself chose the jhoola kanwar this year. The more difficult the task — dak bam requires the water carrier to be constantly running — the greater the divine blessing.
