Lucknow:   of the historic  ,   Fazlur Rahman Waizi breathed his last on Monday. He was 75 and battling with chronic liver disease for the past few months. Hundreds from all walks of life and across the state, including chief minister Akhilesh Yadav reached to mourn the demise and pay tributes to the priest who was popular among all religious communities and hailed as a bridge between Shia and Sunni sects in the city.

 Born in 1942, he rose to fame after leading the funeral prayer of Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Abid in 1986. His two sons, Maulana Qari Syed Shah Fazlul Mannan Waizi, who is present Imam of Teele Wali Masjid and Syed Wasif Hasan Waizi said that on Sunday night, the maulana complained of stomach ache and was rushed to SGPGI but despite intensive care could not recover. At 12:15pm on Monday, he passed away.
 
 Maulana Fazlul Mannan told TOI that after completing his studies from Nadwatul Ulema university of Islamic studies in 1964, the maulana was appointed Imam of Teele Wali Masjid by his father Maulana Syed Waiz Hasan in 1964. He was also appointed Qazi of Koda Jahanabad, of Fathepur district. In 1995, he was declared Shahi Imam, the post he served on for 50 years.
 
 In 1980, when police opened fire on Muslims at Eidgah in Moradabad district, he led a march from Lucknow to Delhi. A relative of Shahi Imam, Maulana Mohammad Rafeeq Qasmi said, “He always took a stand for the rights of every human being.” Maulana Abdul Ali Farooqi who led the Maghrib (evening) prayers at the masjid on Monday said, “He was my childhood friend and relative and the most honest person I have known. Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq said, Maulana Fazlur Rahman championed education of Muslims and was the bridge between Shia and Sunni Muslims. Imam of Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahli said the Shahi Imam rendered valuable service to protection of the historic masjid.
 
 BOX
 
 Mounted on history
 
 According to Bahre Zakhar, a book of history at Aligarh Muslim University library, Fidaye Khan Koka, governor in the reign of Shahjahan built the Teele Wali Masjid in two years near the mausoleum of Shah Peer Mohammad. In 1857, British troops seized it and converted it into an Army hospital. In 1901, after a tirade by Raja Saheb of Jehangirabad and Syed Shah Waris Hasan, grandfather of Shahi Imam Maulana Fazle Rehman, the masjid along with its adjoining land was returned to Muslims and Shah Waris Hasan was appointed mutawalli (trustee) and Shahi Imam.
 
 
