NAVI MUMBAI: Heavy and continuous downpour since Tuesday flooded certain pockets of the city. Some civic areas as well as PCMC nodes were waterlogged but the overall impact was less than that of the August 29 rainfall.

 Quick to respond this time, several industrial units downed shutters in MIDC areas. The incessant downpour also affected the operations at the largest container cargo terminal of the nation —Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT). 
 
 Nine vessels were parked at four terminals and the cranes had to slow down whenever wind speed touched the critical 18 knots (see box). 
 
 But the intensity of the hit was less than the August 29 rainfall, said port officials. Port operations had to be suspended during last month’s rainfall as wind speed had touched 24 knots. 
 
 City traffic sources said that there were fewer vehicles on the roads as many stayed at home instead of venturing out, keeping in mind last month’s heavy downpour.
 
 Several units in MIDC, Mahape and Rabale closed their plants on Wednesday due to flooding. Some started late afternoon operations. 
 
 Again, nullah and stormwater drain water coursed down the Parsik hill and entered and flooded the premises like last month. 
 
 Prakash Padikkal and Bhupinder Singh, who own fabrication units of processing equipment, had it rough. 
 
 “I kept the unit closed on Wednesday as water entered the unit premises on Tuesday evening and damaged the batteries,’’ said Padikkal.
 
 Bhupinder said the water was waist deep this time and the intensity was less than August 29 downpour when the water remained all night. 
 
 “We pumped out the water a bit, but most of it drained out last night. As a result, work was affected till Wednesday afternoon,’’ he added.
 
 Honorary joint secretary of small scale entrepreneur association (SSEA), Raja Bhujle said, “We were alert this time, and started pumping out the water on Tuesday evening to avoid damage that we had sustained lasmonth.’’ 
 
 K R Gopi, president of SSEA, had to wade through water to reach his unit as the approach road was waterlogged due to big potholes.
 
 High speed winds affected loading/unloading operations of nine vessels during certain hours of Tuesday and Wednesday at JNPT. 
 
 The northern parts of the city (NMMC area) in Thane district got more rainfall since the rainfall started around 2pm on Tuesday evening.
 
 But Panvel, situated in the southern part, under PCMC jurisdiction, got a total rainfall of 339 mm outstripping 374.3 mm rainfall of CBD in the NMMC area.
 
 
