CHANDIGARH: With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) trying desperately to keep its flock together, leader of opposition H S Phoolka on Thursday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) was trying to poach its legislators. “AAP MLAs have been offered up to Rs 15 crore for the switch but they take pride in being associated with the party. Some of them might not be affluent but their integrity is their biggest asset,” Phoolka told TOI.

 Phoolka’s claim comes close on the heels of the saffron party leaders’ assertions that around 11 AAP legislators were in touch with them and keen on shifting loyalty. There are also BJP claims that these AAP leaders might join the BJP ahead of party president  's visit to the state next month. 
 
 Phoolka, however, refuted BJP’s claims, saying: “Both the BJP and the   have tried everything. They contacted our leaders and even offered them money.” Phoolka went on to allege that before the BJP, it was the Congress which was trying woo AAP legislators after the elections. The AAP managed to win 20 seats even as the Congress got a resounding mandate -- winning 77 of the 117 seats in the assembly elections.
 
 On the exit of the party’s former Punjab convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich (Ghuggi), Phoolka said it was unfortunate. However, he also informed that he would try to persuade him to return to the party. There have been speculations that Waraich might join the Congress. While announcing his resignation at a press conference on Wednesday, the comedian-turned-politician clarified he would not take political sanyas. Sources in the Congress revealed even though some AAP leaders had opened channels with the party, it would be open to take those leaders who stood by the party ideology. However, the Congress was not aggressively trying to induct them at this stage.
 
 All has not been well with the AAP since the assembly polls. The appointment of Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann as the   president earlier this week antagonized Waraich and also party’s chief whip Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Out of the 20 AAP MLAs, 19 are first timers, Khaira being the only exception.
 
 Even as the AAP is facing turmoil, its ally in Punjab – Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) – of Bains brothers, Simarjeet Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains, who are MLAs from Ludhiana, stands firmly behind AAP for now
 
 Simarjeet told TOI, “Even though it is an internal matter of AAP, I feel the leaders who are disgruntled and leaving are the ones who had come with the desire to get positions. The volunteer of the party on the ground still believes in the ideology of AAP and in that sense there is no real crisis for the party. Whatever is happening should be over in a matter of days and AAP will be back on track. As far as our party is concerned, we are very much an ally of AAP.”
 
