MUMBAI: A hawker-free, pedestrian-friendly Linking Road may soon be a reality. The design for a shopping plaza one step below ground level, a parking lot for 600 vehicles below Raosaheb Patwardhan Garden—both the first of their kind in the city—and a subway with escalators, received an in-principle nod from municipal commissioner   on Thursday. 

 While there are only 97 licensed stalls along the road at present, the shopping plaza will have a provision for 200 stalls. The approximate cost of the civil works, interiors, signage, street furniture and shopping plaza is expected to be around Rs 88 crore. The subway is expected to have two entries, one of them from the   side. Keeping in mind the needs of the disabled, a special lift, down to the subway, is also expected to be a part of the project. 
 
  Ashish Shelar, who has been pushing for a revamp of the area and was present in Thursday’s meeting where the plan was tabled, told TOI a revamp would help decongest the area. 
 
 Mehta, who gave his in-principle nod to the proposal, said, “This would ease traffic congestion in a big way and help pedestrians. There are subways also being planned so that pedestrians can easily move through without having to come in contact with shoppers. While an in-principle approval has been given, I have now asked that all permissions required should be in place. A civil drawing will also need to be prepared in order to float tenders for the same.” 
 
 Architect  , who was asked by the BMC last year to design the plan, said, “The design talks about taking away all the bad points in the area and retaining the good ones. For example, the parking lot will help the area which lacks adequate parking facility and stalls would move a level below ground level. While this is a pilot, a similar thing can also be planned for other maidans.”
 
 Incidentally, the Development Control Regulations (DCR) of the recently released DP 2034, proposed, among other things, underground parking and shopping hubs below public open spaces and land reserved for playgrounds/parks/gardens in the city. But the civic body clearly stated no such uses will be allowed below parks like Oval Maidan, Cross Maidan, Azad Maidan, Shivaji Park, all parade grounds and Five Gardens
 
  Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner, H (West) ward, said they will immediately begin the process to receive all permissions but in the meanwhile will start to realign stalls in the existing space to maintain uniformity.
 
 
