PUNE: Less than a month after a speeding car mowed down a three-year-old girl and her mother on   Road, another accident occurred on Monday morning close to the same spot when a sedan rammed into a   Xcent, injuring the driver and another person.

 The incident occurred around 9am when the Hyundai Xcent which was driving towards the city was hit by a grey sedan headed in the opposite direction near the National Insurance Academy.
 
 The driver of the Xcent and another person suffered minor injuries and were rushed to a private hospital on Baner Road. They were discharged a few hours later but chose not to press charges against the driver of the sedan.
 
 According to the records of Chatushrungi police, the driver of the sedan lost control over the vehicle when one of the tyres of his car burst.
 
 The impact of the collision was such that the white Xcent turned 180 degrees and came to a stop in the opposite direction of the traffic flow.
 
 Local resident  , who was a witness to Monday’s accident, highlighted complete lack of civic infrastructure. “This would not have happened had the divider been high enough. We urgently need speed breakers as over speeding is common on Baner Road,” he said.
 
 IT professional and area resident Tushar Shah pointed to the apathy of the   and the traffic department towards addressing safety concerns on the busy road. “Hazards abound on Baner Road from 7am till midnight, what with drivers casually driving on the wrong side of the road, engaging in double or even triple parking and complete lack of patrolling by the police. I have lodged so many complaints, but the civic body closes them without doing anything. Even the traffic police are not always visible. We desperately need footpaths, traffic signals, traffic calming measures and stricter enforcement of traffic rules,” he said.
 
 Sustained policing is the need of the hour, said Sanjeev Singh, member of the traffic committee of Baner Balewadi Residents Association, who recalled five accidents on the road since the death of the mother and daughter on Baner Road on April 17. “Only some reflectors and barricades around punctures have come up since then. The major problem is selective policing and disproportionate growth of cars. We will soon approach the authorities with a list of our demands,” he said.
 
 Kamalakar Takawale, police inspector in-charge of the Chatushrungi traffic division, assured that adequate infrastructure will be in place soon. Responding to questions about the joint meeting with civic officials, he said, “The civic body will start the work soon. The height of the divider will definitely be raised. Requirement of speed breakers is being evaluated, especially near punctures.”
 
