Panaji: The   of Bombay in Goa temporarily restrained the state government on Wednesday from issuing any new licences to offshore casinos on the Mandovi without its permission.

 The high court’s interim order came after it prima facie found that such offshore activities are essentially permissible on the sea. But it refused to order a stop to the casinos that are already operating on the river since 1999.
 
 The final order will decide the fate of 18-year-old offshore casino operators in Goa, who have been operating on the Mandovi.
 
 The interim order comes on a petition filed by Aquaviva Fernandes, who raised the often-debated issue whether offshore casinos can be permitted to operate on the Mandovi as the state   law allows them to operate on the seas.
 
 “On going through the different dictionary meanings of the word “offshore”, it prima facie appears that offshore activities permissible are essentially towards the sea,” a division bench consisting of justices F M Reis and Nutan D Sardessai observed.
 
 “However, by an ad-interim order, the respondent shall not grant permissions for casino licence during the pendency of the above petition in the river without seeking permission of this court,” the   directed
 
 During the hearing, counsel for petitioner Yogesh Nadkarni said as per the law, casinos should not be allowed to operate in inland water.
 
 Nadkarni said in terms of section 13A of the Goa Public Gambling Act, 1976, the casino vessels can operate only on the seas and pointed out that dictionary meaning of the word “offshore” is that such activities can be carried out on the seas.
 
 Nadkarni further said the word “offshore” is not defined in the 1976 act, and the dictionary meaning of the word “offshore” would have to be considered.
 
 Nadkarni also submitted before the court the discussions in the legislative assembly at the time of passing of the amendment in 1996 to the provision of section 13A of the act. Refering to the amendment, he said the minister, who had introduced the bill, has cleared the doubts raised by the other members that such activities would not be carried out on the Mandovi but on big vessels on the sea.
 
 Advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande brought to the notice of the court the dictionary meaning of the word “shore” to point out that any area beyond the bank of the river or land is a “shore”, which would clearly specify that the word “offshore” can also be an area within a river.
 
 Lawande said the casinos have been operating from 1999 and the authorities concerned have accepted such meaning to the word “offshore” and permitted the activities to be carried out on the Mandovi.
 
 He also said the word “vessel” has been defined by an amendment introduced in 2012 to include inland vessels and, as such, according to him it would clearly show that the vessels that can ply in inland waters of the state can be used for casino operations.
 
 
