VADODARA: Railway minister   has ordered an inquiry into the massive crowd frenzy that led to the death of one person at Vadodara railway station during the promotional campaign for Shah Rukh Khan’s film ‘Raees’ on Monday night. 

 Fareed Khan Pathan (43), a local Samajwadi Party member, died of a heart attack while some citizens suffered injuries in the melee. Pathan had come to meet his niece Samina Sheikh, a journalist with Bombay Times who was travelling with  . A case of accidental death has been registered by railway police. 
 
 Two GRP personnel also fell unconscious due to suffocation and were rushed to the government-run SSG Hospital. The platform was strewn with footwear left behind by fans.
 
 In a statement, Shah Rukh said, “It’s unfortunate that the incident took place despite security measures. My prayers are with the family of the deceased.” Family members admitted Pathan had undergone angioplasty few years ago.
 
 Prabhu tweeted that he had directed the director general of the   (RPF) to investigate the matter and take stern action if any lapses were found. 
 
 Vadodara railway superintendent of police (SP) Sharad Singhal said the probe will focus on whether appropriate security was available at the platform, look into factors that led to a lathi-charge and check if permission was given to the film promotion unit and if the unit flouted any rules. 
 
 SRK, Sunny Leone and other members of the ‘Raees’ team were travelling by the Delhi-bound   to promote the film that releases on Wednesday. Unprecedented scenes were witnessed at Vadodara station as large numbers turned up to catch a glimpse of the star who arrived at 10.40pm on Monday. SRK waved at the crowd from the door of the coach, but the fans went berserk when the train began leaving the platform. 
 
 “People started running towards the train as they were expecting Shah Rukh to come out again. We had to resort to a lathi-charge to keep people away from the moving train as it could have led to a major accident,” Singhal told TOI. 
 
 Singhal added that he was not officially intimated about the filmstar’s visit. “After the train left Surat station, a   (GRP) inspector informed me that Shah Rukh would be reaching Vadodara railway station next. I immediately deployed 100 GRP personnel while the RPF sent 50 of its men. We did not expect such a huge crowd. The crowd also went berserk as T-shirts carrying Shah Rukh’s autograph were thrown at the fans,”he said. 
 
 Amit Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager, Vadodara railway division, told TOI that the train was initially scheduled to arrive on the platforms 2 and 3, but the platform was changed to number 6 because it is bigger and has easy access. 
 
 
