MADURAI: The   has upheld the appointment of   as director(in-charge) of   Institute of Rural Health and Family Welfare Trust. 

 While delivering his order, Justice S Vaidyanathan said, “The court holds that the appointment of Dr. Seethalakshmi is perfectly valid in the eye of law and the amendment carried out in the existing rules cannot be said to be bad in law, as it was not amended to accommodate an individual / her as director in the trust, but with the vast vision and intention for upliftment of the rural public.” 
 
 S Seethalakshmi was appointed director in May last year. However, the staff welfare association of Gandhigram Institute of Rural Health and Family Welfare Trust challenged the appointment before the high court bench. It said that the director was overaged and thus not fit for the post. 
 
 To this the chairman of the board of trustees,  , filed a counter. She said that since the trust is located in the rural area and salary package was also not high, qualified and experience personnel are not coming forward to take up the post of the director and the principal and that it is common in government departments and public sector corporations to employ retired personnel to continue the service. Seethalakshmi served in government as medical officer and has completed 25 years of service, she said. 
 
 The judge said, “Admittedly, the   was established with the sole intention to serve for the rural public in remembrance of Mahatma Gandhi’s revolutionary concept of ‘Nai Talim’ (knowledge and work are not separate) system of education, to develop academic programmes in rural development, rural economics and extension education, rural oriented sciences, cooperation, development administration, rural sociology, English and foreign languages and Tamil and Indian languages. But, it is painful that such a noble organization has been pulled out to court by a group of members of the petitioner association, infuriated by the appointment of S Seethalakshmi.” 
 
 In the case, there is no irregularity apparent on the face of record. She had duly participated in the selection process and came out successful in the race. The association cannot dictate the trust as to who has to be inducted as director and cannot question as to why the other one was not given preference in the selection, the judge said. 
 
 “Except a few doctors such as Seethalakshmi, other doctors with higher qualification in the field of medicine are reluctant to work in the rural area, as their main aim of such higher acquirement is to mint money and lead a sophisticated life in the city, cannot be brushed aside,” the judge said. 
 
 According to the government side, the appointee was very strict in following the rules and taking action against workers who had not followed the same and only a handful of workers started working against her. 
 
