MANGALURU: While the murderers of Karthik Raj, 28, are yet to be nabbed even after 75 days of his death, his bereaved father seeks  . Though   and B Ramanath Rai have made statements of  , the family of Karthik Raj is yet to receive any  . 

 “Let them conduct the investigation through any agency, be it CID or local police, but they should bring the culprits to book and punish them. I have lost my son within 45 days of his completion of mechanical engineering course. I want justice. Those who killed my son should be arrested and punished immediately,” said P Umesh, father of Karthik Raj.
 
 Karthik Raj was assaulted by unidentified miscreants near Ganesh Mahal, few metres from Konaje police station, while he went for a jog on October 23. He succumbed to serious head injuries at a private hospital the same day. 
 
 Even as police is clueless on the brutal murder of Karthik Raj, his father said he has not received any official communication with regard to government handing over the case to CID. 
 
 “I have no problem if the government hands over the case to CID or any other agency. My only request is that the culprits be brought before the law. My son was never involved in any politics, even though I was a taluk panchayat member 15 years ago. Though I was elected from the BJP, I have friends in the Congress and other parties. I have not been active in politics for nearly 15 years. What is my son’s fault thathe was murdered? Let the police arrest and punish the culprits, no matter which party, religion or caste they belong to,” Umesh said. 
 
 Hindu Hitharakshana Vedike leader Jagadish Alva said that the fight for justice for Karthik Raj’s family will be intensified if police fails to arrest culprits. He said the vedike will intensify the protests involving Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel in the days to come. 
 
 Coming down heavily on Congress and CPM leaders, who filed complaint against the MP for his inflammatory remarks, Alva said, “There was no need for an FIR against Kateel, who made an emotional outburst. The MP has already expressed his regret for making such a remark.”
 
