NAGPUR: A recent entrant in the lending business,   (HFFC) is banking highly on the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) — the interest subsidy scheme launched by the   government. Out of the Rs270 crore subsidy granted under PMAY, 8% has been for loans given by HFFC.

 The company attributes its success in cornering a huge chunk of PMAY subsidies to the system of easier approvals. PMAY loans can be taken from all banks or NBFCs. However, borrowers at HFFC are not required to submit their income tax returns or bank statements. “The company does its own due diligence to assess the income level,” said Gaurav Mohta, HFFC’s head (sales and marketing).
 
 Borrowers with up to Rs6 lakh per year family income are eligible for the PMAY subsidy, which is capped at Rs2.20 lakh. Once approved, the amount is credited to the loan account, which reduces the outstanding balance.
 
 In Nagpur, HFFC has processed 21 loan cases under PMAY. The city branch of Confederation of   Developers of India (CREDAI) and HFFC held a function to felicitate the beneficiaries on Friday.
 
 “Under the terms laid down by the government, only a declaration has to be given that the family has an income within Rs6 lakh an year. To finance borrowers who may not have a bank account or tax returns, HFFC has devised its own system of ascertaining the income. It is done through market intelligence. We do not need income tax returns or bank statement like other lending institutions,” Mohta told TOI on the sidelines of the function.
 
 He said the HFFC system does not have any extra risk, since the company gathers information through different sources to ascertain the income. The income is cross-checked in both subsidy and non-subsidy cases. In case of misrepresentation, the subsidy is taken back. So far 3,000 loans of the company have been covered under PMAY with approvals secured for over 1,000, said Mohta.
 
 The company’s current outstanding advances stand at Rs793 crore. The average ticket size of the loans is Rs10 lakh. Mohta said there is a major thrust on affordable homes in cities across the country. In Nagpur too some schemes are coming up on the outskirts.
 
 “The amended PMAY announced in December last year has increased the income level to Rs18 lakh. This will bring in a large number of persons under the eligibility criterion,” said Mohta.
 
