KOLKATA: The six-member team appointed to probe an accident victim's death last week--for which his family blamed Apollo   Hospitals--launched an investigation to check if the hospital was negligent during treatment, if treatment was indeed delayed, unnecessary tests were carried out and bills were inflated and misleading.

 The team, led by senior doctor  , drove into Apollo around 2pm. The next three hours, the members remained cooped up in the administrative block, during which entry was barred for everyone, except a handful of hospital staffers. After interacting with nine doctors, six nurses and several senior employees--seeking details of treatment, procedure and medical bills--the findings gathered by the team are reportedly against the hospital.
 
 According to health department sources, the preliminary probe pointed to seve ral shortcomings by the hospital, which has been asked to furnish all prescriptions, papers and bills related to victim  's treatment.The Phoolbagan police station has also asked Apollo to submit all prescriptions and documents by Thursday.
 
 Roy died at   on February 24, hours after being released from Apollo, which reportedly charged the Roys over Rs 8 lakh and even allegedly refused to release Sanjay to be shifted to SSKM till the entire amount was paid.
 
 “While the probe team spoke extensively to doctors and nurses, the focus of their inquiry seemed to be the bills.They have sought every bill sequentially, seeking evidence to check if they had been inflated,“ said a source. Confirming bills would be checked, a heath department official said the tests recommended would also be examined. “The idea is to check if the tests were essential and if they held up treatment. Investigating doctors will focus on the time taken to start Sanjay's treatment and if the crucial golden hour had lapsed before he was attended to. The team will also probe if the hospital had wasted time in releasing Sanjay when his family wanted to shift him to SSKM.Apollo could face action if the allegations are proved true,“ said the official.
 
 With the inquiry noose tightening, the Apollo Gleneagles authorities went into a shell, with officials remaining out of bounds through the day. The hospital did not issue an official statement.
 
