AURANGABAD: The applicants belonging to Below Poverty Line ( ) category will no longer be able to seek   of desired information under the Right To Information ( ) Act.

 In a recent circular, the state general administration department (GAD) has instructed all public institutions that   should be given only 50 pages of photocopies of desired information free of cost and thereafter normal charge of Rs 2 be recovered from them, along the lines of other applicants. The GAD circular refers to a slew of recommendations that the state information commission had made in the past and clubbed in the annual report of 2016.
 
 “The BPL applicant should be given access to desired information free of cost. The BPL applicant should be requested to visit office of public institution concerned (for file inspection). If the number of pages is more, the applicant should be provided upto 50 photocopies without any charges. If the number of pages is more, regular fees be charged,” Rajendra Jadhav, deputy secretary of GAD, said in a latest circular. 
 
 While the RTI community has hailed the decision, a section of experts has dubbed it as dilution of the transparency law. “Besides earning praise for ensuring transparency in governance, the RTI Act has also achieved dubious distinction for its misuse. A section of BPL category candidates is to be blamed for such misuse. The ceiling on free information pages could serve as one of the measures to rein in such tendencies,” said RTI activist Vivek Velankar. 
 
 Activists said certain incidents have been noticed wherein non-BPL candidates seek desired information through BPL candidates just because of the exemption regarding providing free photocopies.
 
 A public information officer associated with the regional level public institution said people may not believe it, but they have to arrange photocopies in bunches. In many cases, the information disseminated does not serve any public interest, the official said.
 
 Pralhad Kachare, deputy commissioner (revenue) for Aurangabad, who was head of RTI Cell at Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (YASHADA), said comparative studies of RTI related rules and regulations of different states reveal that Maharashtra is the only state that would now charge from BPL for photocopies.
 
  “Other states like Karnataka and Chhattisgarh too have framed rules related to information access to BPL applicants, but nowhere have they been asked to pay for the documents,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, Mukesh Khullar, principal secretary (services) in GAD, said he was on leave and another officer Bhagwan Sahay, who is heading administrative reforms, would provide information. Sahay could not be reached for comments. 
 
 State information commissioner Ratnakar Gaikwad did not respond to text messages and calls made to him.
 
