NEW DELHI: While a concerted effort is on to save the environment and reduce the amount of pollution in the city, Swami Shraddhanand   has taken a regressive step by drastically pruning trees at its Narela campus for its Golden Jubilee celebrations.

 Students and teachers allege that in the last few weeks the college has conducted a massive pruning activity during which several trees have been cut and bushes uprooted. The students fear that clearing of vegetation will lead to a loss of habitat of the peacocks and other birds that gives a uniqueness to their college.
 
 The teachers also alleged the activity was conducted without statutory approval of the forest department. They added that the administration had even sold off the wood illegally. Logs have been stored in the old and unused rooms, which was verified by TOI during its visit to the college.
 
 However, the college principal, PV Khatri, denied that trees had been cut and said that “since the campus falls under the Delhi government, we cannot conduct any such operation.”
 
 Asked about the fallen trees and uprooted bushes scattered in the campus, the principal blamed nature. “Storm and strong winds uprooted the trees many years ago, but the PWD has not picked the logs from the campus yet,” Khatri claimed.
 
 Khatri also said that many trees were cut by the discom for stringing power lines. However, teachers countered it by saying that no discom can conduct its operation deep inside the campus.
 
 A senior official from the forest department said, “Irrespective of land ownership, no tree can be cut without seeking prior permission from the department.”
 
 The college had shifted to its new campus in October 2001 because of increasing number of students from adjoining areas of Delhi, including Haryana.
 
 DV Bharadwaj, administrative officer at the college, said, “Currently, around 4,400 students are admitted here. While 2,600 students, mostly from the arts and commerce streams, study at the old campus, over 2,000 of science subjects are at the new campus.”
 
 
