Nagpur: In an unusual directive to the city police, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, on Friday, asked them to record statement of girl, who was accused by her family of becoming victim of “love Jihad”, through WhatsApp video call. She eloped with Mohammad Arif after their families opposed their union and later tied nuptial knot at an unknown location. A division bench comprising justices Vasanti Naik and Murlidhar Giratkar came up with these instructions after couple’s counsel Vilas Dongre informed that both of them are in safe custody and were deliberately kept away from the city for their safety. He informed that Monica Ingle can’t be brought here immediately, as she was about 400kms-500 kms away and it would be unsafe for both of them, as right wing activists are on their prowl. The judges then asked Imambada Police to use technology to record her statement instead of calling her all the way to city. They directed investigation officer to also include public prosecutor when girl’s statement would be recorded. The cops would submit details to the court within a week. Both Arif and Ingle knocked the judiciary’s doors for protection from right wing activists after they received death threats. They claimed that the mob, along with Imambada police, forcefully entered into the house of Arif’s aunt at 2.30am on August 30, and threatened to kill their entire family, if she failed to disclose the couple’s location. The court came to couple’s rescue when the case was filed, by asking police to grant protection to them. While flaying the cops for not helping the couple, the court issued notices to commissioner of police K Venkatesh, police inspector and sub-inspector Amol Jadhav at Imambada station. During last hearing, petitioner’s counsel pointed out that Jadhav was also present when the mob stormed boy’s aunt’s home and demanded that the couple be brought to the police station or an offence of kidnapping would be made out against him. Subsequently, the court directed to add Jadhav as respondent. Dongre submitted three affidavits on Ingle’s behalf which affirms that she was a major and decision to marry Arif was her own. The girl’s family lodged a missing complaint on August 29 after she allegedly left home on the pretext of going to an Internet café but failed to return.