NEW DELHI: As   volunteers go door-to-door canvassing for votes, they have been armed with a questionnaire on people’s perception of the performance of the BJP-led corporations vis-à-vis the city government.

 The first question being put up to people is: “who, according to you, is responsible for sanitation”; the respondent has to choose between “BJP-led MCD” and “Kejriwal Sarkaar”. Interestingly, all the 12 questions derive their essence from a video message that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal released recently where he sought votes for “jhaadu” to sweep out the “garbage”. 
 
 The feedback thus gained is being used to strategise AAP's poll campaign. Door-to-door campaign forms the core of AAP’s outreach and the campaign teams in all areas have been asked to personally hand over the forms to residents and get their feedback. 
 
 The first question on the list itself sends out a strong political message, as it asks people to ponder over the question as to who is responsible for maintaining sanitation. Next, the respondents are asked about their thoughts on how “over 20 years, BJP and Congress have destroyed the municipal corporation and turned the city into a garbage dump”. Another controversial query relates to whether the people know that “corporation funds are (being) siphoned off by councillors, leaving no money to pay salaries of staff”.
 
 Feedback is also being sought on what people have to say about Delhi government’s power and water subsidy policies as also the initiative of the state not to allow private schools to increase fees over two years. People are being asked if they have benefited from free medicines and tests at government hospitals. Closer to the end of the questionnaire is a blunt query: “are you happy with Kejriwal Sarkaar’s work?” 
 
 As a follow-up question, the respondent is asked if he/she would want an end to corruption in the corporations and have a clean city? On who can bring about this change, the respondent gets to choose from three options: “Congress, BJP or AAP”. The last question is on who people would choose if elections were to be conducted tomorrow. 
 
 As it reaches out to voters, AAP is making full use of Kejriwal’s video-recorded message, screening it through projector screens and LEDs at various spots. 
 
