AHMEDABAD: John Henry Craggs, 90, a British man, came to Ahmedabad with his wife, who’s from Kutch, for her health check-up. But Craggs himself fell ill and underwent cardiac bypass surgery in a city-based hospital this December, just before Christmas. Also known as Jack Shah, because he married   four decades ago, Craggs has an indomitable spirit and wishes to live to 100.

 Craggs had come from Nairobi with his wife Hashu, 71, for her treatment. But on November 8, he fell ill and was immediately taken to a hospital near Adalaj, where doctors diagnosed cardiac issues. He was then shifted to a private hospital in Sola and doctors found a critical block in the left main artery of his heart.
 
  “All heart arteries were very calcified and bypass surgery was the only option. But as he was 90 years old, doctors were hesitant and apprehensive about complications,” said Dr  ,   of the private hospital.
 
 “It was Craggs who inspired us to conduct the surgery,” said Dr Parikh.
 
 The surgery was conducted successfully on December 23 by cardiac surgeons Dr   and Dr Manan Desai. Craggs is currently recovering to enjoy his new lease of life.
 
 “Open heart surgery can be done at any age provided the patient is mentally ready and has a will to live. Craggs has a strong desire to complete 100 years,” said Dr Shah.
 
 His wife Hashu Shah, who hails from Kutch, said that her husband has amazing willpower, which motivates him to live joyfully. She also recalled their love story and the time when Craggs wooed her for five years after seeing a matrimonial advertisement in August 1972. They finally got married on January 12, 1977. 
 
 “The biggest problem was our food habits. He was a non-vegetarian who was running restaurant, serving recipes of beef besides our house. I, being a Jain, could not even touch it. Considering this, he shifted the restaurant, and later left it,” she said.
 
 “Initially, we had different dishes and utensils for both kinds of food. But gradually we adjusted with each other and ultimately I started cooking chicken curry for him,” Shah said.
 
 Craggs smiled and said, “Her words help me to live.”
 
