HYDERABAD: In a matter of 10 days, the   was forced to make a dash to the state-run   for the second time on Wednesday, this time to look into the recent incident involving 12 children who were allegedly administered  . Earlier, C   paid an emergency visit to the facility after a paralytic patient, S Raju, was denied a wheelchair. The episode put the spotlight on the widespread corruption prevalent within the Gandhi Hospital premises.

 Speaking after his four-hour visit on Wednesday, Reddy maintained that the hospital had not used any expired injections though a probe into the issue is still underway. “The case sheets of the patients confirm that those controversial injections were not administered to the kids, as has been claimed by their parents,” the health minister said. “I have also issued strict orders asking the authorities to immediately discard all expired drugs from the hospital,” he added. 
 
 Though patients and insiders wondered if the minister’s order would have any impact on the ground, Reddy assured of dealing with corruption in state-run hospitals with an iron fist. In an attempt to prove his intent, he even pulled up one Resident Medical Officer (RMO), who he claimed hasn’t been performing her duties properly. She is among the eight RMOs employed at the hospital. 
 
 While the RMO in question, O Saraswati, hasn’t been suspended just yet, hospital sources said she would be eventually replaced as per standard procedure.
 
 “Henceforth, RMOs will be held responsible for anything that goes wrong in the hospital. Even if something happens after their duty hours, they will be held accountable and action will be taken against them,” Reddy said while issuing a warning to all employees working in government hospitals across the state. 
 
 Speaking about Gandhi Hospital’s affairs in particular, he added: “Our intent is to flush out corruption from the hospital at all levels. I have asked RMOs and HODs to report to me any issue that they are facing and draw up a list of things that they want. I will ensure that their concerns are addressed.”
 
 
