GURUGRAM:   working in mines, construction sites and stone-crusher plants are set to benefit from the Haryana   Rehabilitation Policy that focuses on treatment of silicosis, an occupational lung disease.

 The state government notified the policy in Haryana on January 4. From now on, any worker suffering from the disease will be provided free medical facilities. The state labour department has so far traced 25 labourers affected by silicosis.
 
 In Haryana, silicosis is a notifiable disease under the Factories Act, 1948, and the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE & CS) Act, 1996. Gurgaon has 350 stone-crusher plants employing about 15,000 labourers. The state labour department conducted a survey in 2014 in which 46 workers were suspected silicosis patients in the district. Medical tests later confirmed 36 cases of silicosis.
 
 Another survey was conducted in October and November 2016 wherein 36 patients were suspected of the disease, 18 of whom were confirmed of Silicosis in December 2016. In January this year, the department traced 25 of these patients for treatment.
 
 Silicosis is an incurable lung disease caused by inhalation of crystalline silica dust, which leads to inflammation and nodular lesions in the lobes of lungs. It has been categorised as a type of pneumoconiosis, which is potentially fatal. A patient experiences shortness of breath, fatigue, loss of appetite, chest pain, dry cough and respiratory failure and the condition may get misdiagnosed as tuberculosis.
 
 The new policy of the state government will ensure treatment, compensation, rehabilitation and provisions of various welfare measures to labourers in factories and construction sites suffering from silicosis.
 
 “After the silicosis diagnosis board confirms the case, the worker registered under the   (ESI) Act, 1948, will be treated at ESI hospitals. Workers, who are not registered, will also be provided free treatment at district hospitals. For this, an identity card will be issued by the  ,” said Jaibir Arya, additional labour commissioner, Gurgaon. Widows and parents of unmarried labourers or other nominees will be compensated with Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh in case of death.
 
 
