NAGPUR: The activists from Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi (VIRAA), political wing of   (VCan) group, staged protests for statehood demand at Deekshabhoomi during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Friday. They shouted anti-Modi slogans and exhorted him for fulfilling promise for detaching Vidarbha from Maharashtra as promised by the   leadership, time and again.

 The activists led by lawyer Shailendra Harode, Suraj Lolge, Sandeep Sawarkar, Sanjay Nerkar, Amol Kathane and other activists from VIRAA’s youth wing, tried to storm the passing convoy of PM, but were overpowered by the cops, who were present in large numbers, at Annasaheb Sathe square at Deekshabhoomi. The protesters were carrying placards and banners asking Modi to do justice with the Vidarbha citizens by fulfilling their genuine demand. Some of their colleagues, including women had planned to protest during Modi’s speech at Mankapur indoor stadium, but couldn’t succeeded due to unprecedented security.
 
 According to them, they had planned to carry on protests when the PM arrived, but police didn’t allow them to enter the premises while carrying placards and banners. They somehow reached the spot through another way that led to the delay.
 
 The activists told TOI that they just wanted to remind Modi regarding promise made by BJP leadership, right from union minister Nitin Gadkari to chief minister  , for starting separation process, as soon as BJP assumed power in centre and state. “All those promises were made before   and assembly polls. Even written statements were given at that time by top BJP leaders. The party had already passed the resolution for creation of separate Vidarbha. But after assuming the power, the leaders are not even talking about the subject, which pained us,” they claimed.
 
 They threatened to intensify the agitation if central government fails to start process of creation of  . “We hope that our genuine and long pending demand is fulfilled by Prime Minister Modi. Else, the people from region would teach a lesson to them,” they said.
 
