BENGALURU:   and   are considering massive share buybacks as a way to restore investor confidence and engage in a more tax-efficient way to return money to shareholders.

 Infosys is considering up to a Rs 12,000 crore ($1.8 billion) share buyback, a move that is pending final nod from its key shareholders, including the founders. Sources said the company is currently discussing the buyback process – whether it should be an open tender or a market buyback– as also the premium to be paid.
 
 Meanwhile, market speculation is also rife about an imminent share buyback by Cognizant, partially to address the concerns from activist investor  , which purchased a $1.4 billion stake in the company last year.
 
 Investors who have seen market value erode on the back of tepid growth in the recent past are turning attention to the inefficient capital structures (deployment) of several IT majors, some of which have shied away from large, transformational M&As. “They don’t need capital to induce growth either. In such a context, investors are asking these cash rich companies to give them back money in a tax efficient manner," said a source directly familiar with the matter.
 
 Infosys is sitting on a cash pile of $5.25 billion. If a buyback happens, it will be the first in the history of the 35-year-old company. It had previously overturned several requests from investors to consider a buyback. Three years ago, former CFOs V   and V Balakrishnan had written to the board proposing a Rs 11,000 crore buyback.
 
 Infosys’s share price has dropped from Rs 1,150 a piece as of February last year to Rs 944 currently. IT companies are being buffeted by the sea-change in technology – especially the moves into cloud, mobile, automation and analytics – and, more recently, by the new US administration’s actions that suggest a more stringent evaluation of the H-1B and L-1 visa programmes.
 
 Shailesh Haribhakti, founder and chief mentor of Baker Tilly Desai Haribhakti Consultants (DHC), said the growth prospects of IT companies have become uncertain. “You combine that with all of them having a significant cash pile, and it’s an instant recipe for buyback,” he said, adding that IT companies that are significantly owned by private equity firms will have significant pressures to buyback.
 
 In Cognizant, activist investor Elliott Management has been critical about its policy of operating in the margin band of 19- 20%. The fund said the plan it is proposing could take the margins to 23% in 2018.
 
 Keith Backman of BMO Capital said in a recent note that Cognizant could announce a share buyback that reduces the share count, as compared to the past few years in which its buyback kept the share count flat. Oppenheimer Equity Research said it expects Cognizant to address Elliott Management's recommendations concurrent with its earnings release. “We suspect it adopts a more shareholder-friendly capital allocation stance (dividends/buybacks) but would be surprised if it moves off its long-standing 19%-20% margin target, especially in light of potential visa-related cost concerns,” it said.
 
 Last year, Wipro approved a proposal to buy back shares worth Rs 2,500 crore, representing 1.62% of the total equity capital. Dividend distribution and buyback both result in cash outgo from the company's books. However, finance professionals say given the current taxation structure, a buyback has an edge over dividends for investors in listed securities. “A buyback executed through the stock exchange route can result in zero tax for all investors including large investors if the shares were held for more than a year. It also leads to price improvement for those who stay back,” said Saurabh Agarwal, director, Kennis, a taxation and corporate advisory firm.
 s
 
