HYDERABAD: The Telangana police rolled out the Crime and   (CCTNS) on Tuesday, joining an elite club of a few states. With the launch of the new service, any person who lodges a complaint with the police will get an acknowledgement in the form of an SMS and the message can be used to track the complaint's status.

 At an event organised at the Telangana police headquarters and director-general of police's (DGP's) office on Tuesday, ministers KT Rama Rao and   launched citizen services as part of the CCTNS project.
 
 DGP Anurag Sharma said people would henceforth get an acknowledgement of their complaint in the form of an SMS.“The SMS will have details of the FIR and a petition ID, which will allow the complainant to track the progress of hisher case by logging on to state police website. The complainant will also get the FIR copy on his or her email ID,“ the DGP said, adding, “Data gathered on missing persons has also been uploaded on the Telangana police website, http:www.tspolice.gov.in, as part of the CCTNS project.“
 
  ( ) Ravi Gupta, who heads the CCTNS project implementation team in the state, told TOI that citizens would also get an acknowledgement for a complaint petition submitted at the police station. “In certain instances like loss of cell phone or credit cards or ID cards, FIR may not be registered. Even in such cases, if the aggrieved approach police with a complaint, he she will get an acknowledgement SMS, which can be used to claim insurance or get a new document or card. The services are now available throughout the state,“ the ADG said.
 
  and Nayani Narasimha Reddy spoke at length about modernisation of the police force. “Three years ago, there was apprehension about the law and order situation in Hyderabad and Telangana. As good law and order situation is key for development of the state, the CM sanctioned `350 crore for modernisation of the police force after formation of State. In these three years, the significant improvement in law and order is one of the biggest achieve ments,“ KTR said. He also referred to new initiatives such as SHE Teams and applications like Hawk Eye. “I once contacted SHE Teams to solve a friend's problem and approached them over the phone without revealing my identity. The problem was solved within two hours. In two hours, I was contacted thrice to check if the local police responded to my complaint or not,“ KTR said. He also made a mention of how top state cops were using social media, especially Twitter.“When French DJ David Guetta's performances were cancelled in a neighbouring state, there were doubts about his scheduled performance in Hyderabad. At that time, Cyberabad commissioner   tweeted welcoming the DJ.Such things increase people's confidence in police,“ he said.
 
