GURUGRAM: The anger of   over lack of basic facilities in their area started boiling over forcing them to stage a protest. Around 60 residents on Saturday put up a tent and staged a token sit-in in front of the Sector 40 market. The protestors demanded that Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) resolve issues like chocked sewer system, battered roads and non-functional streetlights.

 The   agitated from 10am till 5pm and warned the civil body that if their problems were not solved soon, they would be forced to start a chain   and block main roads of the area.
 
 The residents told TOI that they had filed a complaint at CM window three months ago. Two months after the complaint, they got a reply that the problems have been resolved. However, nothing was done on the ground.
 
 This sector was recently handed over to MCG by   (HUDA). The residents said that the neither HUDA worked for us, nor MCG was doing anything. “We have been neglected by both the civic agencies,” said Suresh Dhanerwal, general secretary, sector 40 resident welfare association.
 
 The most severe problem that the sector’s residents are facing is non-functional sewer system. “The sewerage lines here are always choked, which makes the dirty water spill onto the roads. While the stench makes living here hell, and the unhygienic conditions are leading to people falling ill frequently,” said residents Bhupinder Yadav. 
 
  
  
 Other issues raised by the RWA were the battered roads and dysfunctional streetlights. Pointing to the condition of the roads that are full of potholes and broken curbs, they claimed that no repair work had been carried out for several months, despite several reminders to the authorities. The roads are being used as a dumping yard for construction waste and concrete.
 
 Streetlights also don’t function making it dangerous for commuters and particularly unsafe for women after the sundown. “The vacant plots have been encroached by migrants and all sorts of activities happen here once it gets dark. It is not safe for women to step out in the evening because we no longer feel safe,” said Pooja.
  
 Later in the day, MCG officials visited the protest site and assured that issues will soon be resolved. “We are doing to get the issues resolved at the earliest but the government work requires some time to release and allot the tenders. But we get the roads repaired and fix other problems too,” said V K Kardam, executive engineer, MCG.
 
