LUCKNOW: After record voting in the first phase in western Uttar Pradesh, the poll juggernaut now moves to one of the most fertile regions of the state which has also been a hotbed of communal polarisation. Nearly 2.29 crore   in 67 constituencies of 11 districts spread over   and part of western UP will select their representatives from a pool of 728 candidates on Wednesday.

 With districts like Moradabad and Rampur, which have more than 50% population of minority community, the phase will be a litmus test for the Muslim outreach efforts by both ruling SP and BSP. Also, this phase would put to test the popularity of Muslim ministers of the state. Big guns like Azam Khan from Rampur, Iqbal Mahmood from Sambhal, Mehboob Ali from Amroha, Riyaz Ahmad from Dhaurahra and Kamal Akhtar from Hasnapur are all in the fray on Wednesday. So is Imran Masood – known for his rabid remarks against Narendra Modi during 2014 Lok Sabha polls campaigning – from Nakur in Saharanpur.
 
 Political analysts say that, like in the first phase, communal polarisation come into play in this phase as well. Bijnor is already simmering after the killing of a youth. BJP star campaigners like Adityanath and Keshav Maurya have campaigned extensively in the region to raise issues like Ram temple, triple talaq and ban on slaughter houses.
 
 With high concentration of minority voters , BJP would bank on polarisation among Hindus. It has fielded Shuchi Chaudhary, wife of an RSS worker in jail for allegedly triggering communal flare last year, from Bijnor. Also, this phase would see a large number of turncoats — many of them sitting MLAs. While BJP has been their favourite destination , other outfits, too, have their own share of party-hoppers.
 
 From Congress, former Union minister and two-time MP Jitin Prasada is contesting the assembly polls for the first time — from his home seat Tilhar in Shahjahanpur while the party’s sitting MLA Mawiya Ali is fighting on the SP ticket from Deoband. Seven out 11 districts going to the polls in this phase have more than 30% Muslim population. 
 
 While Azam — eyeing for a record ninth term—is locked in a fierce battle against BSP’s Tanveer Ahmad, his son Abdullah is facing Rampur Nawab’s scion Kazim Ali in neighbouring Swar-Tanda. Kazim, son of former Rampur Congress MP Begum Noor Bano, has been a three-time MLA from both BSP and Congress. This time, he is contesting on BSP ticket.
 
 Another marathon man in fray is BJP’s Suresh Khanna. He has won the Shahjahanpur seat seven times. Besides, former cricket Test opener Chetan Chauhan, who has won the Amroha MP seat twice in past, is making a debut in assembly elections from Naugawan Sadat in the same district. His challenger is SP’s Javed Abdi, who is considered close to chief minister   Yadav.
 
 For the SP, the challenge is to defend its citadel. The party is allied with the Congress which won three seats here in the previous assembly polls. In 2012, SP had won 35 seats in this phase while BSP could get just 18. BJP was a distant third with 10 seats while Congress had three. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP’s sweep was not as resounding here as it was in the rest of the state. The party was leading in 49 out of 67 constituencies while SP had a lead in 15.
 
 No of districts | 11
 
 No of seats | 67
 
 No of voters | 2.29 crore
 
 No of male voters | 1.24 crore
 
 No of female voters | 1.05 crore
 
 No of candidates | 721
 
 No female candidates | 82
 
 Constituency with maximum number of candidates | Kanth - 28 candidates
 
 Constituency with minimum number of candidates | Dhanaura - 5
 
 Number of Polling Stations | 23,696
 
 2012 results
 
 SP – 35
 
 BSP – 18
 
 BJP – 10
 
 CONG – 3
 
 IEMC – 1
 
 
