MUMBAI: Four years after being accused of the murder of her husband, a sessions court on Thursday acquitted a 49-year-old doctor from Borivli after it found no evidence to hold her guilty. Acquitting the accused, Pradnya Bhattacharya, who had been accused of strangling her husband, Tushar (46), the court said, “Except the medical evidence, there is no iota of evidence, to implicate or nail the accused with the offence alleged. No doubt it nurtures in the mind that it might be strangulation which resulted into death of the deceased but, a moral conviction cannot be recorded in the absence of any circumstance or clinching link of the accused and the accusation.“

 The woman's 18-year-old daughter, who was present at home at the time of the incident, did not depose and was declared hostile by the prosecution. Cops began to investigate the case after they received a call from   on June 15, 2012, informing them about Tushar's death from an electric shock.The police alleged that Prad nya had misled them by claiming that Tushar had been repairing the ceiling fan when he suffered an electric shock and fell from a height of about 10 feet. She said that he sustained a head injury , following which she brought him to hospital.
 
 The prosecution said that post-mortem reports confirmed that Tushar had been strangled with a cloth and hit on the head with a stool. It claimed that a bedsheet with blood was found from the flat and it was found that the fan was working. Pradnya was arrested.
 
 Pradnya had been assisting a physician in his clinic for a while. She moved into a rented apartment not very far from the clinic in Rokadia Lane, Borivli (west) with her family a few months earlier.Tushar worked as a mandap decorator. The couple had a love marriage nearly two decades ago. Among the seven witnesses were cops and doctors who conducted the post mortem.
 
 While acquitting the woman, the court relied on the police statements of family members and neighbours who spoke of cordial relations between the couple.The court referred to the statement of Tushar's sister where she said that he was under depression and as was suffering from `psoriasis' on the scalp which made him irritable. The woman had further stated that the victim was suffering from financial crisis, was drinking heavily and had even attempted to hang himself. “Needless to say that she has admitted that relationship between the accused and her deceased husband was cordial,“ the court pointed out.
 
 The court also said that as according to the admission of almost all the witnesses, no injuries had been found on the body of the deceased. It further observed that the investigating officer had admitted that an electrician had mentioned the possibility of anyone receiving an electric shock from the spot.
 
