KOLKATA: Taking a “warning” from   Mamata Banerjee’s announcement of   against MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest by the CBI, fewer car owners took our their vehicles on the road on Wednesday. This, along with their tweaked   plans, the police managed to keep the vehicles moving even as several processions, led by the Trinamool, BJP and Left, threatening to choke the city roads. But their efforts failed when two rallies—one led by Sudip’s wife Naina Bandyopadhyay from Santosh Mitra Square to Wellington Square and another by the Left from the Lenin statue to Sealdah station—coincided with the evening home-bound traffic, bringing the heart of the city to a standstill for an hour.

 The entire Wednesday witnessed a series of processions, most of them by the Trinamool, which also staged several blocks through the length and breadth of the city, from Esplanade, MG Road, BK Pal Avenue to Harish Park and Jadu Babu Bazar. While most commuters tried to avoid Asutosh Mukherjee Road, Jawaharlal Nehru Road and Chittaranjan Avenue, the police remained on their toes, ensuring the rallies were restricted to only one-third of the western flank of Jawaharlal Nehru Road and C R Avenue keeping the rest of the thoroughfares free for vehicles. Immediately after the BJP  , which started from the BJP headquarters near Md Ali Park, crossed College Street, Nirmal Chandra Street and S N Banerjee Road to end at Esplanade, the police gave the green signal for vehicles to move forward. “We asked all traffic guards to keep one side of thoroughfares free so that ambulances could avail of a dedicated channel to reach hospital,” said a senior traffic officer.
 
 Though the traffic flow remained slow, it did not quite come to a standstill till in the evening, when a Left rally, moving from the west to the east, and a Trinamool procession from the east to west, brought the city to its knees. Home-bound commuters had a trying time, waiting on roads for hours. Those who had to catch trains, alighted from buses and walked to Howrah and Sealdah stations, only to find train services gone haywire. From 6 in the evening till 8pm, a series of blocks was staged at several stations in the Howrah division, disrupting suburban services. The Sealdah division and Circular Railway were similarly targeted in the morning and afternoon; squatters blocked trains at Bagbazar station from 10am till 10.35am, while another group disrupted services at Garia from 11am till 11.17am. Another group of Trinamool workers forced the staffers to leave the Kakurgachhi Cabin around 12.45pm, leading to severe disruption in services on the Sealdah Main line. The cabin staff finally managed to resume work around 1.20pm, after which trains started running on again. In the evening, a mob blocked the tracks at the Serampore station and ransacked the booking office and damaged the computers inside. Even as the protest lasted there for around an hour till 6.10pm, another one broke out at Rishra station. 
 
 Reports of violence poured in from other parts as well with the Durgapur BJP party office being set on fire and the Chinsurah BJP office attacked.
 
 
