Chandigarh: Stray   roaming on the roads of Zirakpur have become a trouble for the residents as well as the commuters. 

 These cattle have been serving as speed breakers on the roads, blocking traffic on busy routes. This growing menace is one of the biggest issues for the residents for a long time now.
 
 The cattle mostly sit near the traffic signals and under pass of flyovers, which also give a tough time to traffic police while managing traffic.
 
 Residents complain that cows and buffaloes can be spotted standing in the middle of the road for hours. This creates problems for the pedestrians, especially kids and senior citizens, who are scared of attack from these stray animals.
 
 However the civic body officials claim that the villagers leave their cattle in open in the morning, who keeps roaming around the city till the villagers take them back in the evening. 
 
 Vinay Vikram Singh, a resident, said, “This is a menace that can easily be controlled, but nothing is done to keep the animals away from the roads. Their roaming around can cause accidents and they can themselves end up getting injured.”
 
 These stray animals damage gardens and other green areas. The residents have also raised concerns over the issue of cattle dung on roads and in front of houses.
 
 Sharmishtha Singh, a resident, said, “I see it as the cruelity against the animals as well. If they are left in the open, they too get afraid with heavy traffic. People too woo them often from one corner to another. The cattle should be protected so that no harm is caused to anyone.
 
 A senior citizen Medha Purewal said, “A lot of times I find the cattle standing near the entrance of the bylane which goes to my house. Hence, there is always the possibility of getting attacked by the animals when I go out.”
 
 Another resident Sambhit Verma said, “I often see people offering cattle with cowfeed. Because of such gestures, the cows keep coming to some places every day. Offering food to any animal is good, but roads are certainly not the place to do that.”
 
 Residents said, inspite of several complaints, the municipal corporation (MC) officials have not taken any action. Dilip Ahuja, another resident, said, “The spots where cows gather must get wired so that it is easier to remove them from the road. Strict action must be taken against the owners of the animals who leave them open on the roads. This is the time when activists who claim to save cows must make an effort to actually do so, keeping people safe in the way.”
 
 
