MUMBAI:  's commerce and arts students will get an extended weekend as authorities have decided to announce Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday as non- instructional days for teache rs to expedite assessment wo rk so that results can be declared by July 31. If the need arises, the non-instructional days may be extended. It is the first time that the university has moved to the online assessment process, leading to a delay in announcement of results of exams held in April-May. 

 A few BMM teachers have even been assessing papers overnight at the Kalina campus-from 9pm to 6.30am-for two days. Even with all the mechanism in place, teachers said it would be impossible to meet the July 31 results deadline set by governor C   Rao. Teachers are expected to work full-time from Sunday so that the assessment can be contained within the three non-instructional days, said a circular signed by the university registrar M A Khan.
 
 In another move, teachers who handle the same subjects in   have been roped in by MU to assess papers, Vinayak Dalvie, officer on special duty for assessment, said. 
 
 Students of BMS, BAF, BMM and all other self-financed courses under the commerce and arts faculty will get to officially bunk in the coming week. With the increase in the number of micro centres to 100 at all places, the university expects teachers to even assess papers on Sunday.
 
 In another move, a list of teachers who teach the same subjects in Nagpur University have also been roped in to assess papers, said Vinayak Dalvie, officer on special duty for assessment. He said, "The list of teachers was endorsed by the university's appointment section and approved by the deans. The technical team from MeritTrac (the third-party service provider) is already in Nagpur to set up the software and create IDs for teachers. An academic team will visit Nagpur too." Baban Taywade, former dean from Nagpur, will coordinate Mumbai University's assessment work from there.
 
 While assessment of answersheets from arts and commerce is pending, that of science and technology is nearing completion. Teachers said that there are around 5,000-40,000 papers still to be assessed in each subject from commerce courses. "The target is unlikely to be achieved. Even if the assessment is completed in the next two weeks, the production stage will take time before results are announced," said a teacher. Governor has called the vice-chancellor for a meeting in July to seek the assessment status, said an official.
 
 The NCP students' wing has sought resignation of vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh due to the mess created by implementation of the online assessment process. Prahaar students' organization has suggested offline assessment of papers to increase the number of papers. Meanwhile, some of the teachers are taking extra efforts to meet the deadline and to bring relief to students. A few BMM teachers are assessing the papers online at Kalina campus at night. "It is easier to check the papers peacefully at night and we have a technical expert who is available full time to resolve our queries. We will see if more teachers can help," said the teacher.
 
 
