PATIALA: The Al Ain court of Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has awarded jail terms to 10 Punjabi youths, who had escaped the death penalty for killing Pakistani national Mohamed Farahan Mohamed Abaz in July 2015, following a feud over bootlegging.

 While pronouncing the verdict, the court awarded jail terms ranging from one year to three and a half years. These youths had escaped the death penalty after NGO  , run by businessman S P S Oberio, had arranged for the payment of blood money (diyah) of Dirhams 2,00,000 to the family of the victim in accordance with the provisions of the Shariat law.
 
 Farhan, a resident of Phase-I, Hayatabad in Peshawar district of Pakistan, had been killed on the night of July 13, 2015. Initially, 11 Indian men were arrested for the crime but later one of them of was acquitted of the charges, while 10 others were awarded death sentence by the said court on October 26, 2016.
 
 The NGO filed a petition in the appeal court of Al Ain on December 12, 2016, which was admitted. Following that the NGO convinced the family of the victim to pardon the lives of the 10 Punjabi youths by accepting the blood money. Muhhamed Riaz, father of the deceased, appeared before the appeal court on March 23, 2017, and gave his consent following which the lives of the 10 boys were saved.
 
 During the hearing on April 4, the NGO deposited the blood money in the court. The accused, including Chander Shekhar, Chamor Singh, Satminder Singh, Dharamvir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Balwinder Singh, Harjinder Singh,  , Kalwinder Singh and   were on Thursday produced before the court, which pronounced jail terms.
 
 Speaking to TOI from Dubai, Oberoi said those who were awarded less than two years would soon be released from the jail as they had already been behind bars for as long during the case trial. They would be deported back to the country after getting out pass from the Indian embassy. The remaining would be returning home by the year end.
 
 The court also obligated the accused to pay the prescribed fees amounting to Dirhams 5,000 as attorney fees for the legal services offered by the lawyers assigned to each one of them. This amount is to be deposited in the treasury of court department.
 
 Indian Ambassador to UAE tweets
 
 Following the court verdict, Indian Ambassador to UAE Navdeep Suri tweeted that he had met S P S Oberoi this afternoon to commend his dedicated efforts. Tagging Union minister for external affairs Sushma Swaraj and Punjab chief minister Capt  , Suri stated that they were in close touch with all concerned.
 
