JALANDHAR:   (ED) has ordered provisional attachment of properties of former   minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur, his son   and former SAD chief parliamentary secretary (CPS)   and seven others under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in connection with the multi-crore synthetic drug racket case.

  The biggest provisional attachment is of the Rs 55.54 crore worth properties of Amritsar-based businessman Jagjit Singh Chahal and his kin. Phillaur attached property is worth Rs 14.37 lakh, while those owned by his son amount to over Rs 4.72 crore and Avinash Chander's immovable properties are worth Rs 55.45 lakh.
 
  An ED statement said investigations revealed that proceeds of the crime derived from the cash-rich drug business had been laundered in movable and immovable properties consequent to which ED issued order for provisional attachment on March 31. 
 
 An ED statement said that apart from immovable properties like showrooms, agriculture land, houses, attached assets included business firms, FDRs, seven luxury cars like Range Rover, Land Rover, Mercedes, BMW, Honda Accord, Hyundai Terracon.
 
 Both Phillaur and Chander had resigned from SAD. While Phillaur joined Congress, Chander also moved close to the party. Phillaur was the jail minister in the Parkash Singh Badal-led government, but was dropped after ED summoned his son for questioning. Chander was retained as CPS till Punjab and Haryana high court ordered against the appointments.
 
 An ED order of March 31 provisionally attached properties worth over Rs 61.61 crore while properties worth Rs 34 crore were attached earlier.
 
 Properties of three Canada-based Punjabi NRIs Sukhraj Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Avtar Singh Tarai and his family have also been attached. Delhi-based businessman Sachin Sardana's assets worth Rs 74.65 crore have also been attached.
 
 The others whose properties have been attached are Harpreet Singh of Patiala, Himachal Pradesh based Devinder Kant Sharma and Goraya-based businessman Chunni Lal Gaba. It was the former Akali leaders' links with Gaba and his family that led the ED to Chander and Phillaur.
 
