LUCKNOW: On Sunday evening, when UP chief minister   and Congress vice-president were cementing their bond with a successful three-hour roadshow in Lucknow, SP patriarch   dropped a bombshell 500km away, in Delhi, rejecting summarily the alliance and saying he won’t campaign for it. Mulayam’s outburst right after landing in Delhi came as a discordant note but was not surprising for those who have followed his politics for the past several decades.

 “After losing the SP president’s post and bicycle symbol to his son, Mulayam maintained a stoic silence for nearly two weeks. It was an Election Commission-enforced decision and he couldn’t have done much. There was,however, no compulsion for him to accept the alliance with Congress, a party he was always opposed to,” said a political observer.
 
 Apart from youth, the biggest target group of   is Muslims voters. The architects of this tie-up are confident that the minority community would find this combine the most potent to defeat BJP, hence it is backing it.
 
 “With the SP patriarch, who has earned the sobriquet of ‘Maulana Mulayam’ for a long history of his pro-minorities stances, disapproving this alliance, it is likely to confuse the community and a section of it might switch over to  , so division of Muslim vote will ultimately benefit the BJP,” said an analyst.
 
 With Muslim community-dominated west UP going to polls in the first two phases, Mulayam’s anti-alliance stance is likely to play a crucial role as it was the SP founder who cultivated the community over the past three decades. Mulayam has not only declined to campaign for the alliance, he has reportedly asked his supporters to oppose Congress candidates wherever they are contesting from. This would further complicate matters for Akhilesh-Rahul duo. 
 
 Mulayam’s opposition to any alliance with Congress should be viewed in a historical perspective. “His entire political career and notion of samajwad (socialism) is based on opposition to Congress. It was taken from Lohia’ socialism. Therefore, he chose to dispose what his son proposed,” said an observer.
 
 In fact, this is the first time in its political history that SP is in an alliance with Congress to contest election. In 1989-90, Congress under   had extended support to Mulayam’s minority Janata Dal government. Later, Mulayam extended outside support to the Manmohan government during both UPA-1 and UPA-II. In fact, SP saved Manmohan government when the Left front withdrew support on the Indo-US nuclear deal issue.
 
 The rise of Mulayam has coincided with the decline of Congress in UP. Political analysts said the old warhorse knows too well that if his party gives some space to Congress, it might revive in the the state from which it has been out of power for 27 years. Congress’s impregnable fortress for the first four decades after Independence rested on three social groups—Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims.
 
 With the fall of the Congress in the wake of Mandal-Mandir wave, Brahmins went to the BJP, Dalits to the BSP and Muslims to the SP. The three have shared power among themselves in the past 27 years while the Congress languished. Mulayam, in fact, played a key role in the decimation of Congress, poached its basic vote bank of Muslims.
 
 “One example would suffice to explain what this shift of minority vote base meant. In 2009 parliament election, when Mulayam had embraced Kalyan Singh, who is held responsible by Muslims for demolition of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, the community deserted him and voted en masse for the Congress which won an impressive tally of 22 seats,” said an observer. Apart from his ideological leanings, this was the practical reason Mulayam opposed an alliance with the Congress. “He feared, its revival would first of all push the SP to the margins,” said one of his close aides.
 
 Besides, there are several other factors which have only strengthened his ‘hatred’ for Congress. “Netaji not only holds Narsimha Rao-led Congress government responsible for Babri demolition, he developed an antipathy for the party for unleashing the CBI on him in the DA (disproportionate assets) case,” his associate added.
 
 In 1999, after the fall of Vajpayee-led NDA government, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had gone to the President and claimed to become the PM. She said she had majority of 272 seats but Mulayam, who had 32 MPs, reportedly backtracked from his promise of support. Since then, the element of distrust has never left the two outfits. In fact, despite Mulayam’s willingness, Sonia didn’t include SP in the UPA and the party had to extend support from outside.
 
 Since then, despite backing subsequent UPA governments, Mulayam has been equally belligerent against BJP and Congress. Therefore, his outfit’s deal with the Congress struck after his reign as SP president was over, never got his mental sanction. “The spectre of campaigning and endorsing Congress candidates was something he was very uncomfortable with. He didn’t even attend the function to launch the SP manifesto last week and made it to the venue after the function was over, only to avoid bitterness,” said observers.
 
 On Sunday evening, however, his patience wore thin and the ‘Dhartiputra’ (son of the soil) probably spoke his mind.
 
