PATIALA: Ten Punjabi youths on   in Dubai for killing a Pakistani national in July 2015 are set to escape the gallows as the victim’s family has given the ‘letter of pardon’ after agreeing to ‘diyya’ ( ) of Rs 60 lakh in Pakistani currency. However, these youths may not walk free as the court is likely to award them a few years in jail for the crime that was committed in Dubai before deporting them to India.

 The Al Ain court in Dubai had on October 26, 2016, convicted the 10 Punjabi youths for killing Mohamaad Faran of Peshawar in Pakistan on July 5, 2015, following a feud over bootlegging. Initially, 11 Punjabi youths had faced the charges, but only 10 were convicted for murder. These included Satminder Singh of Barnala, Chander Shekhar of Nawanshahr, Chamkaur Singh of Malerkotla, Kulwinder Singh, Balwinder Kumar and Dharamvir Singh of Ludhiana, Harjinder Singh of Mohali, Tarsem Singh of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh of Patiala and Jagjit Singh of Gurdaspur.
 
 On December 28, 2016, an appeal court in Duabi had allowed a petition moved by S P S Oberoi, chairman of an NGO, Sarbat da Bhala Trust, to save the lives of the Punjabi youths by paying blood money, which is allowed under the Islamic law.
 
 Interacting with TOI, Oberoi said they had offered two lakh dirhams to the victim’s family, which comprised his parents and two brothers. “Initially, they were reluctant, but after repeated requests by the members of the trust, who visited them four times over the last two months, they finally agreed to give the  ,” Oberoi claimed.
 
 He said the trust had secured letters of acceptance and pardon, which have already been submitted in the appeal court in Dubai on February 27. The court has now fixed March 22 as the next date of hearing, during which the youths are likely to get pardons.
 
 The Dubai court had earlier suspended their death sentence on an assurance given by the NGO that an agreement with the victim’s family would be reached soon. The court had maintained that the final decision would only be pronounced only after securing consent from Faran’s family, which Oberoi said had now been received.
 
