NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: BJP’s poll promise of banning illegal abattoirs has morphed into a crackdown on   Roadside meat shops or stalls in the market selling chicken and mutton may not reappear any time in the near future if the government fails to clear the air soon.

 Informal meat shops cater to the bulk of the population in Noida and Ghaziabad, and support the livelihoods of hundreds of people in the trade. The sudden move of the authorities to close down the shops has not only put an end to their means of livelihood but also left them staring at a bleak future.
 
 The question meat sellers are asking is what they need to do to start operating without fear again. If chopping goats and chicken is not allowed, then what is the alternative?
 
 Even as butchers’ knives have been rendered inactive indefinitely amid the sudden lack of clarity on what are the official prerequisites to chop animal meat, both the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad district administrations have set in motion the process of determining the licensing procedure.
 
 According to the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, the latest order from the state government has directed the formation of a special committee to decide who can be issued a trade licence to sell meat/chicken products now.
 
 “The committee will be monitored by the district magistrate and will include the SSP, circle officers, UP pollution control board representatives, chief veterinary officers, assistant regional transport officers, chief medical officer, representatives of the nagar panchayat and zila panchayat and the designated officer from the food safety department. This committee will decide whom to issue licences to and how,” Mahendra Srivastava, designated officer for Gautam Budh Nagar FSDA (food safety and drug administration), told TOI.
 
 In Ghaziabad too, the administration has begun a process to put in place a system of granting licences for selling meat, fish and poultry products. “Neither new licences have been issued nor old ones renewed in the district over the past three years after the NGT issued an order banning   and unlicensed meat and poultry shops. A single-window system for providing NOCs from various departments will be put in place for those seeking licences. A detailed list of guidelines for shopowners is being compiled by the administration,” district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani said.
 
 Rafeeq Qureshi’s chicken kiosk in Sector 37 was shut down by police along with 15 other meat, chicken and fish shops on Friday. “I have been operating my shop for five years now but on Friday, policemen came and shout down all shops in the area including mine,” Qureshi said.
 
 He said a rented shop in a building complex would cost almost Rs 40,000 per month. “Where am I going to get the money from,” Qureshi asked.
 
 GB Nagar district magistrate N P Singh, meanwhile, said that a meeting of the special committee has been called on Friday when a decision on the licensing issue would be taken up.
 
 When asked about the mutton and chicken sellers who already had registration certificates, some of which are valid till 2020, he said that they would be allowed to function only if they fulfilled all the norms.
 
 In neighbouring Ghaziabad, a reality check by TOI in Indirapuram revealed that several stalls and eateries which otherwise did brisk business have either shut shop or have simply vanished.
 
 On the shops that disappeared, Ghaziabad DM Nidhi Keswarwani said supply-side constraints might have forced the eateries to shut shop. Meat and poultry chicken have not been available in UP a week after the crackdown began.
 
 
