KOZHIKODE: In a rare display of quick thinking and  , authorities of   (WWS) have converted department jeeps into   (tankers usually used to transport water to a fire scene) and have redeployed them to fill up the dry waterholes deep inside the forests to quench the thirst of   during summer.

 The cash-strapped WWS, which is battling an unprecedented drought, have customised three Bolero jeeps by installing 500 litre capacity water tanks at their rear end. The inhouse designed pumping system, which has two high-power water pumps, is connected to long hoses fitted with fire nozzles. In addition to fighting fot fires, the department have rest fires, the department have now pressed these vehicles to refill empty waterholes at WWS, which is offering a lifeli ne to thousands of wild animals of   comprising Bandipur, Nagarahole and Muthumalai wildlife sanctuaries. “We have filled up four waterholes located deep inside the WWS on the   using these modified vehicles. As they have fourwheel drive function, we can take them through rugged forest roads. We intent to refill the waterholes which are about to run dry in the ensuing months,“ said WWS warden, P Dhanesh Kumar.
 
 Alarge number of wild animals had migrated en masse from nearby sanctuaries in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in search of water and fodder. Already , 50 of the 240 waterholes in the sanctuary have run dry .He said that these customised vehicles were designed by the department staff themselves and the alterations were done at a local workshop.
 
 “Due to the fund crunch, we cannot procure proper fire ten ders and so we customised the jeeps. Two five horsepower (HP) agricultural motors were used for the pumping system.While one motor is connected to the main hose that has a fire nozzle, the other motor can supply water to four hoses simultaneously. We successfully used it to douse wildfires that happened near WWS from Bandipur's tiger reserve recently,“ Kumar said.
 
 Summer has been especially harsh on the 344 sq km sanctuary this year due to a deficient monsoon last year. “The absence of water inside the sanctuary would mean that animals would stray to human habitations, thereby intensifying the mananimal conflict.We are now using these modified vehicles to bring water from Noolpuzha River to refill waterholes,“ he added.
 
