RAMAYAN (HISAR): Contrary to speculations of confrontation between agitators of Jat community protesting for reservation and security personnel in view of ‘Balidan Diwas’, all venues of protest remained peaceful this time around.

 Over 10,000 protesters gathered at the protest site in Hisar’s Ramayan village, which is considered as the launching pad of Jat reservation movement in Haryana, but the protest in the village near Mayyar was in order. To keep things under control, the district administration had deployed three companies of   (CRPF), a company of   (RAF), and other personnel of state police.
 
 For the first time, trained volunteers of organizers managed the crowds and the parking of vehicles in which villagers reached the protest site. Situation was tense for a few minutes at around 1pm, when some youth protesters tried to sit on the railway tracks adjacent to the protest site. However, they were immediately removed by the organizers.
 
 Thereafter, some elders of the community were deployed to keep youngsters away from tracks.
 
 Except the suspension of roadways buses on Hisar-Delhi and Hisar-Panipat route as precautionary measure, entire traffic in the area remained normal.
 
 The situation at the other sensitive protest site, at Ikkas village in Jind district, also remained under control. Nearly 40,000 people came to the gathering. Except on one occasion, when some young boys tried to visit the area from inside the Jind city on motorcycles, situation remained completely peaceful. The boys were diverted to the protest site after by cops on the spot.
 
 The gatherings at Sirsa and Fatehabad also remained comparatively low and peaceful.
 
 Hisar range inspector general of police (IGP) O P Singh, who was in charge of six districts, gave credit to the people-connect initiative of local police launched in the past 11 months for the peaceful environment. “Our men had not shown any hostility to protesters, collaborated with community leaders, and connected with youth,” he said.
 
