AURANGABAD: The civic administration on Tuesday said that its experiment to   that started in early January in two garbage trucks has yielded good results.

 A civic official said that the vehicles are reaching the garbage dumping yard on scheduled time and disposing of the garbage as per the plan. For the last one month, the   (AMC) has been implementing the initiative as a pilot project under the smart city scheme.
 
 Vikram Mandurke, deputy municipal commissioner, told TOI that the results are quite encouraging. “Trucks are reaching on time and carrying garbage as per standards. There is no incident of failure of trucks reported so far,” he said. 
 
 He added that if the trucks are equipped with the latest technology, the solid waste management system will witness improvement.
 
 The AMC’s solid waste management department has deployed 45 vehicles including 10 trucks, 17 tippers and 18 tractors that are allotted for garbage collection from various points. The waste is then dumped at Naregaon yard. According to AMC records, these trucks make around 215 trips a day and dump around 450 metric tonne of garbage in the yard. Some of these trucks are engaged through private agencies and so there were complaints about truck drivers manipulating the system.
 
 Under the smart city scheme, the municipal body has proposed the use of modern technology to upgrade the solid waste management system. The AMC will use GPS-equipped garbage collection vehicles and dust bins that will record every minute detail of area-wise garbage handling.
 
 Recently, an AMC official said that the new system will bring down the civic body’s expenditure on solid waste significantly over a period of time.
 
 As of now, the civic body is spending close to Rs 39 crore per annum on solid waste management. A senior civic officer said that radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags will be installed in garbage collection vehicles so that authorities could keep a track on their movement. “We have also proposed to install weight scanners on the vehicles to help measure the accurate quantity of garbage collected from a locality,” he said.
 
 The RFID tag is an electronic device that can be fitted in a product for the purpose of identification and tracking. The device uses radio waves to track the targeted object.
 
 Apart from this, biometric tracking of sanitary workers has also been proposed. Municipal authorities have been facing strong criticism for not effectively handling available manpower. The AMC has a team of 1,800 employees in the solid waste management department.
 
