KOCHI: A vigilance court at Muvattupuzha has dismissed a complaint alleging corruption and amassment of wealth above known sources of income by IPS officer  , who is the present director of Vigilance and   (VACB). 

 The court was considering a petition filed by Michael Varghese of Pattanakkad near Cherthala alleging corruption while Thomas was director of ports, his private employment while on leave, and holding encroached property in   in Karnataka. 
 
 During the hearing, the petitioner had not pressed the allegation regarding private employment as the matter is pending before the high court.
 
 Regarding misuse of the post of director of ports, it was alleged that Thomas had hurriedly awarded a Rs 35-lakh contract for setting up solar plants in four offices associated with ports to SIDCO in a hurry, thereby aiding two private companies that fulfilled the contract through SIDCO. 
 
 Another allegation was that the IPS officer committed irregularity in purchasing a dredger for Rs 35 crore, while the state government had only sanctioned Rs 17 crore, from a foreign company instead of a public sector undertaking,   Ltd.
 
 It was also alleged that the officer encroached into 151.03 acres of forest land in Kodagu district and is holding the land in his wife's name. In his property statement, the land is shown in the officer's name, with annual income declared at Rs 20 lakh, the petition said.
 
 While dismissing the allegation regarding corruption in installation of solar plants, the court pointed out that administrative sanction was obtained from the principal secretary and that nothing wrong can be found in entrusting the work to SIDCO and KELTRON, which are government undertakings. Quick disbursal of money might have been due to the fact that it was the end of the financial year. Overall, no offence of corruption is made out, the court held.
 
 The allegation regarding encroachment of land is a matter that has to be decided by the competent court there, where a case is pending, the court said. 
 
 The complainant has failed to provide any material on the allegation regarding purchase of dredger, the order stated. Rejecting the complaint at the threshold itself, the court said it lacks merit.
 
