MALAPPURAM: The high-decibel campaign in Malappuram, which is going to polls on Wednesday, would come to an end on Monday evening. Seven candidates including UDF’s P K Kunhalikutty, LDF’s M B Faisal and BJP-led NDA’s N Sreeprakash are in the fray.

 In the initial stage, the UDF seemed to have enjoyed a clear edge, considering its impressive performances in previous   and assembly elections in its strong hold.
 
 But the strong campaign by senior leaders of LDF, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and V S Achuthanandan, changed the scnario in the final phase. BJP also roped in its senior leaders. The controversial beef remark by its candidate even triggered a national-level debate last week.
 
 The statement made by CPM state secretary   that the election result would be a performance assessment of the government was a shock to the party camp, as Malappuram has been a of UDF bastion for decades. Though Balakrishnan retracted his words, senior leader Achuthanandan made a similar observation on Saturday, during a campaign programme at Perinthalmanna.
 
 The police action against mother of  , the BTech student who was found hanging at his college hostel, and violence in Tanur were used by the rival parties against the ruling front. UDF and SDPI also alleged that police took a pro-Sangh stand in   murder case, while LDF, struggling to counter the slew of allegations against it, alleged a tie-up between Muslim League and SDPI, which did not field its candidate this time.
 
 As the campaign comes to a close, the UDF camp is expecting that its candidate would increase majority from existing 1.9 lakh to at least 2.25 lakh. 
 
 At the same time LDF cadres are still expecting a surprise victory by increasing its vote share from existing 28.46 percentage. BJP too is hopeful that its candidate would increase its vote share in the Muslim majority constituency.
 
 Alongside traditional campaigning through notices, leaflets, posters and parody songs, WhatsApp audio messages were widely used by the parties to woo young voters.
 
 
