BENGALURU: The   may claim to have shown a steely resolve in celebrating   in the face of   from  . But the same resolve appears to be missing when it comes to preserving   which have been rusting for years at a museum for want of government attention.

 Officials in the state department of archaeology say that for close to five years the government has been sitting on a proposal to restore three cannons believed to be from Tipu's arsenal. As the antique pieces need chemical treatment, the department requested a grant of Rs 11.64 lakh and sought approval from the department of Kannada and culture. But the government is yet to respond to the request despite several reminders since 2012, when the first two cannons were found.
 
 “A month ago, we wrote to the Kannada and culture department reminding it of our request. We hope to see some action this time,“ said R Gopal, director of state ar chaeology department.
 
 Two cannons were unearthed in November 2012 during Metro rail work near City Market. In May 2013, a cannon and a cannon ball were found at Bangalore Medical College during construction work. Re cently , 13 cannon balls were found at the office of Karnataka Films Artistes Association near Chamarajpet, when workers were digging a sump on the premises.
 
 The cannons and cannon balls require chemical restoration before they can be displayed at the government museum on Kasturba Road. “We have given in-principle approval to the proposal to restore the antique pieces. It's in the process,“ said S R Umashankar, principle secretary , Kannada and culture department.
 
 Umashankar said the government is considering a proposal to get the cannons and cannon balls treated by scientists from the Lucknow-based National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property .
 
 Experts, however, say the antique pieces can be chemically restored at the Regional Conserva tion Laboratory in Mysuru for much cheaper, instead of taking them all the way to Lucknow.“When the antique pieces can be treated closer home, why does the government want to take them to Lucknow,“ asked Devarakonada Reddy , president of Karnataka Itihasa Academy . The Archaeological Survey of India-owned laboratory in Mysuru is well-equipped to restore and preserve antique pieces.And the state government's move to ignore the laboratory closer to Bengaluru reflects a lack of coordination between the state and central bodies, say many .
 
 “No doubt the Lucknow laboratory , which also belongs to the ASI, is equally equipped. We can take up restoration at the Mysuru lab only when we are asked to do so,“ said D Ambedkar, deputy superintending archaeological chemist at Regional Conservation Laboratory , Mysuru .
 
 
