COIMBATORE: Orient   Company (OGPL) has announced that its board has approved exclusive discussions with IL&FS   to evaluate a potential   of the wind energy generation businesses of both entities. The resultant merged entity will have 1.2 GW of operating wind capacity, and will by far be the largest listed   company in India. IL&FS will have a larger stake in the merged entity as its wind energy generation capacity and projects in pipeline is higher.

 OGPL is now in the process of demerging its wind and biomass entities into two separate companies - OGPL (Wind) and Bio-bijlee Green Power (Biomass) respectively. Subsequent to the demerger, OGPL will have an operating wind capacity of 425 MW in 2016-17 with an additional 43 MW under construction, which will augment capacity of the combined entity in 2017-18. IL&FS Wind has an operating capacity of 775 MW in 2016-17. IL&FS is also developing an additional 228 MW which the merged entity will be in a position to utilise.
 
 Both companies have entered into a non-­binding agreement with an exclusivity period of 90 days. The companies said that any potential outcome is subject to due diligence, definitive documentation and approvals by regulators, creditors, shareholders and other third parties.
 
 "This collaboration will result in the creation of a wind power generation company with a truly pan­India presence, and with the benefit of scale," said T Shivaraman, vice chairman, OGPL."We believe combining the resources and capabilities of both companies into a single organisation will provide significant benefits to all stake holders," he said. "The combined entity will give us the strength and the opportunities to expand," said S Venkatachalam, managing director, OGPL. The total installed wind power capacity is pegged at 28 GW (28000 MW). Independent power producers (IPPs) such as OGPL alone account for 8-10 GW of capacity. OGPL has managed to bring its losses down over the past year. The company reported a net loss of Rs 14.6 crore for the quarter ending September 2016 compared to a net loss of Rs 52.4 crore during the same period the previous year. The OGPL scrip closed 0.6% higher on the BSE on Friday .
 
 "The combined entity will benefit from an enhanced financial position, geographic diversity of wind projects and a variety of power purchase agreements. It will also enjoy a strong pipeline of new projects," Shivaraman stated. "This transaction provides OGPL a platform to substantially grow its foot print," he said.
 
 "The combined entity will emerge as a market leading renewable energy company," said Vibhav Kapoor, Group CIO, IL&FS.
 
