PUNE: They saw many of their colleagues falling like nine pins in the saffron storm but   of the   and Yogesh Behl of the   weathered it all, emerging victorious from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad respectively on Thursday.

 The beleaguered Congress looking for some face saver found one in the victory of Ulhas alias Aba Bagul from panel 35B Sahakarnagar Padmavati. For Bagul, it will be his sixth consecutive term in the new house.
 
 “My victory is due to my personal connect with the people and my work for the last 30 years. I always tried to take up some innovative projects like the Rajiv Gandhi e-learning school or the Bhimsen Joshi auditorium and art gallery which people appreciated. I have always believed in constructive work which has fetched me support not only from Congress voters but also from other parties,” Bagul told TOI. He said in his sixth term, the first project he will take up is the Oxygen Park at Taljai hill which includes plantation of native trees, medicinal plants, sports facilities and solar energy plant.
 
 Bagul’s victory is significant because he hardly got any support during the campaign from Congress leaders and still managed to survive in the massive  . In fact, his supporters said that the Congress’s campaign was so much in disarray that it was only Bagul’s goodwill that stood him in good stead.
 
 Five-term NCP corporator Yogesh Behl also secured the sixth term and his personal rapport with the people helped him to emerge victorious. “Though new areas were added to our panel majority of the people knew me as I have represented Sant Tukaramnagar and Vallabhnagar for three terms. I have always believed in maintaining personal contact with people and during my term as Pimpri Chinchwad mayor I strengthened my contact with the citizens. This has played an important role in my victory,” he told TOI. Behl said he and his colleagues will now work as an effective opposition in the house.
 
 Shiv Sena’s   spoiled the party for NCP’s R S Kumar who was seeking seventh term in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic body and had said it was probably his last election. Commenting on the defeat, Kumar said, "Opposition has played the Marathi card against me which diverted voters' attention from the developmental work which I have done in the area. Secondly, voting from new areas which were added to my ward became the decisive factor in my defeat." A disappointed Kumar said that he had been working hard for the development of the Pradhikaran areas for over two decades.
 
 "My defeat is a proof that people do not go by mere development. It's quite unfortunate because people rejected me in my last elections," Kumar said.
 
