Boundaries blurred as Hyderabad’s   ( Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Hijra, Gender Queer, Intersex, Asexuals etc..) community celebrated diverse sexualities by busting gender seterotypes at the second edition of Queer and Allies Art Festival on Sunday.
A slew of  , craftspeople and performers from different parts of the city and other states, joined hands to send out a simple message: It doesn’t matter who you love or how you love, but that you love!
 Organised by   (an online collective of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender activists from all over India) the day long event attended by close to 200 people was an eclectic potpourri of thought provoking art, theatre, cinema music, dance, poetry and stand-up comedy. 
 Hyderabadi artist Sachita Sharma’s art exhibition kicked off the proceedings in the morning. Abstract paintings depicting life, empowerment, hope, belief and faith came with an inherent message that the process is more important than the end result itself. “I tried to explain why it’s important to be gentle with yourself and allow yourself to take time with things and not rush and nudge yourself in the light of moving forward. After all it is more important to be inspired than being jealous. So be yourself ’cos an original is worth more than a copy, ” explains Sachita.
 It was followed by a movie marathon in which 6 LGBT movies were screened. While the 2015 Hollywood rom-com, Paternity Leave about a gay man who gets pregnant with his partner’s baby evoked the most guffaws, it the award winning documentary, Ladies and Gentlewomen that got the biggest applause. Directed by noted LGBT activist Malini Jeevarathnam, the film explores lesbian relationships in Tamil Nadu. Short films 'Lily', 'PYOTR495', 'Dusk' and 'Knock Knock' completed the line up of films that dwelled on the everyday struggles of LGBT people. “Movies can impact people’s mindsets greatly as they best reflect the pain and hardships we face in the society for being us,” says, Sandi one of the organisers of the event. 
 As the sun set, the cultural revellery began with a gender-bending Bharatanatyam-Kathak fusion performance by Hyderabad based  . This was followed by a stand-up act by Avirat from Pune who left the 
 audience in splits with his gags and got a standing ovation from the crowd.
 Up next was a play based on the a real life coming out story of Hyderabad-based   who was forced to run away from home after his family find out that he has a boyfriend. The scene in the play when the protagonist chooses to abandon his family to choose a life with his boyfriend, received the loudest applause from the audience, some of whom were in tears. 
 The play was followed by a semi classical dance duet by Hyderabadis, Manush and Kripesh, that broke gender stereotypes showcasing what actually gay love really is. A bisexual act performed by Leena, Rathode, Jagdish, Vineeta and Rohit on the confusions that the bisexual people in the society face followed. 
 “Most times people talk about gay and lesbians and the group called bisexuals is always left behind. So we thought of showcasing their problems and the struggles and confusions that they face in their real life,” said Anil Kohli. 
 The audience’s overwhelming response boosted the performers’confidence. “The audience was amazed by the entire performance. We are happy that they understood the concept very clearly and enjoyed all the programs. They were moved by the act we performed and the emotional quotient associated with it,” Sandi.
 The event ended on a high note with a mesmerising semi classical dance performance by Sumit and Varun which left the audience screaming “Once more,” “Once more,” much to the glee of the organisers. “The most heartening part was that among the 200 people who turned up there were less than 100 people from the community,” says Sandi signing off.
 
 
