Ahmedabad: If you plan on buying medicines in bulk, most local pharmacies might make you wait a day before they can fulfil your requirements. This is because pharmacists have been keeping their inventories close to bare minimum, since a fortnight before Goods and Services Tax (GST) came into effect. More than 25 days after GST implementation, drug stocks have increased only marginally. According to estimates by AIOCD-AWACS, a market research agency of All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), the average inventory days (number of days medicine stock will last) increased only by four days from 17 inventory days in June-end to 22 in the third week of July. Explaining the situation, Ameesh Masurekar, director, AIOCD-AWACS, said, “The drastic reduction of 23 days in June (from 40 inventory days in May-end to 17 in end of June) is taking time to recover.”

 
 “Stockists are still facing issues related to software updating, registration of GSTN and confusion on tax rates and HSN codes of products on which variable tax rates have been applied by different companies for similar kind of products,” Masurekar added.
 
 Experts believe that this will further eat into profits, and the losses made on inventories in June will be recovered only partially. “The primary sales losses faced by chemists in June may only be partially recovered in July and the recovery may go on till September end, or further, depending on the recovery of the market,” Masurekar said.
 
 Chemists and druggists across the state are keeping their stocks minimal at this point, confirmed Jashvant Patel, president, Gujarat State Federation of Chemists and Druggists Association.
 
 “Many of us are still selling medicines stocked up in June and are facing losses of 7% tax on medicines which attract 12% GST against 5% VAT earlier,” said Dahrath Patel, a chemist. “The inventories with both stockists and chemists are limited, and while we’re ensuring no shortage, we often have to ask multiple drug wholesalers to locate medicines that are not so common,” he added.
 
 
