Without the comoposer’s permission, that is… Veteran playback singer SP Balasubrahmanyam’s grand world tour, celebrating his 50 years in the film industry, faced quite an unexpected setback when composer   sent the singer’s team a legal notice asking them to stop performing his songs without permission as they are breaking copyright laws. 

 This controversy has once again brought to light the lack of understanding of the copyright and royalty laws by many in the industry. And while this debate rages on, singers from the state tell us what really is the need of the hour…
 
 
 I don’t think we should take this issue to be a clash between Ilaiyaraaja and SPB. Just look into the matter. As per   Act, only a person who creates can claim royalty. So music director, who creates the tune, lyricist, who creates the lyrics and the producer who invests money can all claim royalty, but the singer, who lends his voice, cannot claim anything. Raaja has been fighting against this issue for a long time, and that’s how he sent the notice.  , who understood the issue, just published the letter on the social media to let his fans know that he would not be singing Raaja songs in his concert. That’s all. He has not done this to defame Raaja, nor has the latter done this to halt the concert. The actual fight is different. Let’s not deviate from the actual fight. If MSV, Raaja and other musicians had got royalty claims as per law, they would be billionaires by now. But they get very meagre amount as royalty. So, their fight continues.
  — Thamarai, lyricist
 
 
 There is an association called The Indian Performing Right Society (IPRS), a body which is responsible for getting composers, lyricists and producers the royalty due to them. For instance, if a radio channel plays composer Thaman’s songs, the channel has to pay royalty for using his songs. But considering that channels play the songs very often, I don’t know how this works, as it is logistically impossible to keep paying money. And at what intervals, we are not clear. Apart from this, there’s the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), which is responsible for the western songs. Most composers, lyricists in India, are members of IPRS. On behalf of them, IPRS asks for royalty from event organisers or radio channels. So, for instance, if a singer is performing somewhere, it is the organiser who’s supposed to pay royalty via IPRS. This share goes to the composers, lyricists and producer of the film. If the singer himself is organising a tour, then it is he/she, who should be paying royalty. Since the industry functions in an informal manner, no one is talking about these things. If the composer is not part of IPRS, he can claim, but he can’t share it with the producers or lyricists. So, what does the singer get in all? There was a lot of debate around this sometime ago. It was then that the Indian Singers Rights Association (ISRA) was formed. This was done so that singers get their royalty. But unlike IPRS, this works a bit differently. Here, the royalty is given to the singer if his voice has been used (apart from his own performances). For instance, when someone is playing a song on radio, TV, clubs or IPL, the organiser has to sort out the royalty issues for the singers. Just by singing in films, the singer wouldn’t make any money. It is through these live shows that they earn. Even though I am a singer, composers must get their royalty. Also, whenever such a thing crops up about a creative person, they tend to shame them by terming them ‘greedy’. If there is an issue, it needs to be solved. No one should work for free.
  — Rahul Nambiar, singer 
 
 
 I think we should put the royalty issue in the forefront. Legally, Ilaiyaraaja sir is right and he won the case regarding the same. I am not old enough to comment about what has happened or whether they could have done it in a better fashion. They are veterans and know what to do and how to do best. But what I would like to say is that for the number of songs that Raaja sir has composed, he gets a mere 13 lakh as royalty. It is the IPRS fraud that needs to be highlighted because of this issue. If the Lata Mangeshkars to SPBs had got the royalty properly, this issue wouldn’t be coming up. I remember, the same issue had come up in Bollywood as well, a few years ago. Several singers had protested but they were all made to keep quiet. In fact, a lot of them were not singing much after this incident. Tell me something, the mobile companies that allow customers to download tracks, imagine the amount of money the companies must have made and if they paid them their due, then imagine the money that composers and singers would have made. For the composer, it's his work, why should he donate his money or let others use it for free? There are also people who are commenting about why Raaja sir is demanding money now, at this age? My question is, he put in that many hours of hard work and time to make that song, why should he give it away. At the same time, singers should be allowed to sing their own songs, but nothing comes out of it. I think the IPRS and royalty issues have to be looked into. And if anybody is hit, then it is the lyricist. He gets nothing out of it and makes absolutely no money. The saddest part is, everybody is right in their own way and it is the laws that need to be enforced. 
 —  , singer
 
 
 This IPRS issue has been heating up for a couple of years now. What Raaja sir did was right and he has the right to claim the royalty. But SPB sir and Raaja sir share a beautiful friendship. He could have asked for it over a phone call, too. SPB sir would have obliged as he respects all the music directors with whom he had worked with. Sending a notice and claiming royalty is what shocked us. This shouldn’t have popped out between friends like SPB sir and Raaja sir. I am a fan of both of them. I have listened to SPB sir crooning Raaja sir songs and it is soulful. They both are inseparable. Having known that SPB’s concert would have 80 per cent of Raaja’s songs and asking not to sing his songs at this point of time when he is actually in the US for the concert is making us wonder what actually happened. 
 —  , music composer
 
 
 
 Seeing with the lens of law, what Raja sir did is right. A song is owned by the composer, lyricist and producer. Seeing with the eyes of friendship, it doesn't seem right. A call instead of a legal notice may have sorted things smoothly. Whenever a song is played or performed outside a cinema hall, for public, royalties for that song will be collected and distributed to composer, lyricist and producer. Royalty societies like IPRS will collect such royalties and distribute.
 
 Even if Raja sir has not permitted an organisation like IPRS to manage his royalties, and is managing by himself, he still does not own the song completely. Even if Raja sir is performing in a public event, the royalties for those songs should go to the respective lyricists and producers also. If the writers or producers send a legal notice to him, he will not be able to perform the songs without their prior permission. I am happy that Raja sir is taking this issue to a bigger stage, even if it is bitter to many, so we can get together to understand royalties.
 
