THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On a day when the   its stand against  , the UDF decided to continue its alliance with KC (M) in the local   

 The Congress political affairs committee, which met here, extended its support to the Kottayam district congress committee's decision not to have any alliance with K M Mani. "The Congress is of the view that K M Mani and Jose K Mani betrayed the Congress and hence, there will be no going back from the party's decision not to invite Mani again into the UDF," said KPCC president   after the meeting.
 
 He said the alliance KC (M) had with the CPM was planned by Jose K Mani and was supported by K M Mani. Hence, both the leaders have betrayed the Congress in Kottayam. The KC (M) workers themselves have come out against the decision. The Kottayam DCC had passed a resolution stating that Mani was no more needed in the UDF and had ruled out any kind of alliance with his party. The political affairs committee has ratified the decision, said M M Hassan.The political affairs committee's decision was conveyed at the UDF meeting, which followed. UDF leaders endorsed the move but they decided not to take a hasty decision on the alliance both the parties have in several local bodies now. "The decision on any kind of tie-up with Mani will have to be taken only at an appropriate time. The UDF has now decided there was no need to call for his re-entry," said   after the meeting.
 
  Hassan to continue as KPCC president: The AICC has decided not to replace M M Hassan who has been appointed as an interim president of the KPCC. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala, Mukul Wasnik said Hassan will hold the position of party president in the state till the organisational election is completed. The AICC has taken the decision after consultation with the state leaders. Both the 'A' and 'I' group leaders had supported Hassan to continue as the president. 
 
  KCM rebel wins with CPM support: Kerala Congress (M) rebel candidate was elected as the president of Kaduthuruthy block panchayath in Kottayam with the support of the LDF. Annamma Raju won by 7-4 votes in the 13-member committee. Two Congress members abstained from voting. 
 
