BENGALURU: 
 

 
 
 
 
 In the ten years, a great deal has happened. There have been two general elections. On the political front, the rapid decline of the   and the rise of Narendra Modi; the whole anti-corruption movement... I also felt I had under played, in the first edition, the environmental challenge facing India. Then the fact that the Kashmir trouble has resurfaced. Also gender, gay rights which became important in the past few years. I wanted to write about these new developments, but in the context of the larger argument of India's journey towards national unity and democracy.
 
 
 
 
 The most dramatic is, obviously , the rise of Modi, of this hugely charismatic personality. His ability to capture his party , then to make the election a presidential one and, after that, to assert himself on the government. Even in 2013, nobody would have anticipated he would impose himself on the Indian political imagination. The cult of Modi has grown and grown, like of Indira Gandhi.
 
 The theme of linguistic assertion seems to be a recurring factor in the India story, as seen in  's move.It's resurfacing because we now have a central government that has a model of national unity and uniformity. At Independence, we handled the question of diversity well because the Congress under Nehru did not impose a single religion or a single language. Every state should have its own flag. We are an ancient civilization, but a young political experiment. Seventy years is not old. The tension between state rights and central assertion is still ongoing.
 
 
 
 To some extent. Essentially, once Congress declined, there came up lots of regional parties. Coupled with economic liberalization, it reduced the power of the Centre to distribute funds. Now, the single-party dominance model of the Congress is being replaced by the single-party dominance model of the BJP. Again, unitary pressure is being exercised.This is the dynamic that is playing out in Karnataka. It's a clever move by the CM. Not sure it will work. It has the BJP -temporarily, at least -puzzled.
 
 
 
 The BJP has two or three mentors. One is (MS) Golwalkar, who is hard for them to project. His language is visceral and full of animosity towards Muslims and Christians. Upadhyaya's language is more anodyne, not polemic. He was an ideologue. A new political party always tries to project its own ancestry .
 
 
 
 India is so large it works in different levels. In some sectors, there's progress; in some, a decline. The decline is in the capability and autonomy of public institutions like the police, the judiciary , and the bureaucracy.Efficiency has declined, corruption has increased and they have become more captive to political manipulation. Even the RBI and Army are not immune. In some other sectors, there's progress.
 
 Broadly speaking, Dalits and women are in a better place though they are still exploited. Two signs of this a re t h at w i t h every passing year the link between caste and occupa tion is becoming weaker. As we urbanize, people can choose their professions.
 
 There's even a small but growing number of Dalit entrepreneurs. Also, with every passing year there's a small but steady weaken ing between family and marriage. More women are freer -not total freedom -to choose their romantic or marriage partner. These are signs of greater democracy. The most important things in your life are whom you want to love and what job you want to do, and there are positives here. In traditional Indian society -both Hindu and Muslim -these were massively determined by family.
 
 
 
 We are becoming an elections-only democracy. What about the stuff between elections Parliament, legislature, media, courts? Free and fair elections are just one element in a successful democratic functioning. My verdict, like 10 years ago, is India, as a democratic experiment, is still fifty-fifty.
 
