SRINAGAR: In yet another ceasefire violation, two   were killed in sniper fire from the Pakistani side along the   on Wednesday.

 Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said two soldiers of Jammu & Kashmir Rifles were killed in Furkiya area of Chowkibal by Pakistani troops in Keran sector of Kupwara. Incidentally, Army chief General Bipin Rawat arrived here on Wednesday to review the security situation in the wake of the terrorist attack on Amarnath pilgrims.
 
 In another incident, three terrorists were gunned down in   of Budgam on Tuesday night. The funerals of the three Hizb militants were held in three places: Nowhatta in downtown Srinagar, Hyderpora and Radbugh village of Budgam. Kashmiri youth claiming to be followers of "deposed" Hizbul Mujahideen chief Zakir Musa told people on Wednesday that they stood for the Islamic State terror outfit and forbade them from draping the bodies of three terrorists killed in encounters in Pakistani flags.
 
 The three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were gunned down by security forces in Radbugh village of central Kashmir's Budgam district on Tuesday night.
 
 These armed youth also prohibited the crowds from shouting pro-azadi and pro-Pakistan slogans; significantly , the people complied with their directives while coming out in large numbers for the burials.
 
 Mohammad Omar, a photo journalist covering the funeral of slain   in downtown Srinagar, said the youth proclaimed that they subscribed to the views of Zakir Musa, who preaches Caliphate (or Islamist rule), and whose video last month threatening Hurriyat separatists with death sent shock waves across the Valley .
 
 All the three terrorists were from central Kashmir.While Sajjad Ahmad Gilkar was from Malarata in downtown Srinagar, Javid Sheikh, was from Beerwah Churpora and Aaquib Gul from Goripura in Rawalpora. Gul had gone underground just 15 days ago to join Hizb, police said.
 
 Based on specific intelligence inputs about the presence of militants, security forces earlier cordoned Radbugh village on Tuesday evening, police said.
 
