Jati Umra (Amritsar): The residents of Jati Umra, the ancestral village of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Amritsar district, and activists of Independent Youth Federation (IYF) have lodged police complaints citing intimidation by one another.

 The villagers have filed a complaint against the IYF for removing the ‘chadar’ (sacred spread) from the grave of Sharif’s great grandfather Mian Mohammad Baksh.
 
 Verowal station house officer (SHO) Preet Inder Singh told TOI on Thursday that they had received a complaint from residents of Jati Umra informing that the IYF activists had torn the ‘chadar’ from the grave and intimidated them. “As the grave is not a religious place, removing chadar is a non-cognizable offence. According to complainants, the ‘chadar’ was removed. However, we will look into the intimidation angle,” he said, adding that the IYF activists had also lodged a complaint against the villagers.
 
 On July 24, some activists of the IYF not only removed the ‘chadar’ from Baksh’s grave but had also burnt the Pakistani flag and raised slogans against Pakistan for denying that Indian national Nanak Singh was lodged in their jail for over three decades.
 
 Some Jati Umra residents, who were against the way the federation members chose to vent their anger against the neighbouring country, were of view that they should have approached the government instead of showing disrespect to a dead person.
 
 “A group of students arrived here in two vehicles, hit the grave with sandals and removed the ‘chadar,’ which I didn’t like. I rushed with my baton to disperse them,” said a village elder Balli Singh.
 
 Inderjit Singh, granthi of the gurdwara situated in the ancestral house of Nawaz Sharif, said great grandfather of the Pakistan PM was an ordinary villager and he didn’t deserve that kind of treatment. “The best way would have been to take up the issue with the concerned government department than showing an aggressive gesture,” he said.
 
 Another resident of Jati Umra, who didn’t want to give his name, said a section of villagers had sympathy with Nawaz Sharif since they had arranged to get jobs for many local youths and wanted to be in good books of his family.
 
 While condemning the gesture of IYF, Jati Umra panchayat member Dilbagh Singh said they had given a complaint against the youth body to the police.
 
 
