KOLKATA: Willis Plaza showed fine predatory instincts in netting a brace as   notched up a facile 2-0 victory over   in the ILeague at the   on Wednesday. The Trinidad and Tobago player scored both goals in the first session as the red and golds registered their first victory over the Mumbaibased side since January 2013.

 Their fourth successive win consolidated East Bengal's position at the top of the table as they moved up to 16 points from six games while Mumbai FC stayed on six points after suffering their fourth successive loss.
 
 There was some drama towards the end when East Bengal goalkeeper TP Rehenesh made a goalline clearance off a header by Shilton D'Silva. Mumbai FC players claimed that the ball had crossed the goalline and remonstrated with the assistant referee. Unfortunately, in absence of goal-line technology, television replays were inconclusive.  's boys were on the money right from the start and put a shaky Mumbai FC defence under pressure. The visitors' defensive frailty was exposed in the 10th minute as East Bengal took the lead. Mumbai FC's central defenders Shallum Pires and Chinta Rao Chandrasekhar both missed the flight of a cross from the right by Rahul Bheke, allowing Plaza, who was positioned behind them, to bring the ball down with his chest. And, before any of the rival defenders could react, Plaza placed the ball past Kunal Sawant at the far post.
 
 It became 2-0 seven minutes later. With   marking him, Plaza brilliantly trapped a diagonal ball by Lalrindika Ralte with an outstretched left leg before turning his marker inside out and rifled the ball home with a thumping left-footed drive.
 
 
 
 Ludhiana: After the thrashing they received at the hands of East Bengal in their previous match, Minerva Punjab FC put up a decent display to play out a goalless draw against Churchill Brothers at the Guru Nanak Stadium here. Churchill Brothers played attacking football banking on their lone striker   while Minerva, who had lost 0-5 against East Bengal in their last match at home, played high pressing game to prevent attacks from their opponents.
 
 
 
 
 Aizawl: Aizawl FC came back to their winning ways as they notched up a 1-0 win over DSK Shivajians, thanks to a last-gasp goal by substitute Brandon Vanlalremdika here.
 
 Coming on to the field at the stroke of half-time, Brandon struck in the 89th minute to hand Aizawl FC the full three points. 
 
