CHANDIGARH:   syndicate has revoked the   for   students as given in the  , 2017-18. Now, the university will follow the guidelines for the   as prescribed in the PU handbook of information for 2016-17, which are essentially on the line of Government of India Scheme for Direct Admission of Students from Abroad (DASA) in premier institutions in India. This was decided in the syndicate meeting on Sunday. 

 It was decided in the fee committee meeting held on July 20 that the university will follow the NRI guidelines for admissions as defined by the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD). It was decided in the fee committee meeting that the new admission guidelines for NRI students, which were ratified by the PU syndicate on January 21, would be done away with and the NRI norms as per the MHRD guidelines would be followed. It was also discussed that the university would lose a major chunk of income if the admissions happen following the 2017-18 NRI guidelines for admissions. 
 
 According to theguidelines given in the handbook of information for 2016-17, the NRI quota admissions will be given to foreign nationals i.e. nationals or citizens of countries other than India who are not persons of Indian origin. Persons of Indian origin who are citizens of countries other than India and hold the passport of the country concerned, candidates whose parents/ spouses are of Indian origin but are settled abroad and they have obtained legal resident status of that country, like green card and/or are under immigration visa will be given admission under the NRI category. Candidates who are the children/wards/spouses of NRIs, those who are settled overseas for purposes of employment, etc., can also take admission under the NRI category. 
 
 The word “children” includes sons/daughters and grand-sons/grand-daughters, and the word “ward” may include spouse, etc. The NRI guidelines were made stringent last year, which were to be implemented from the 2017-18 session. However, sources said that those guidelines were too stringent and sticking to those would have cost PU a huge loss in terms of the revenue generated from the NRI admissions and would have resulted in vacant seats meant for the NRIs. 
 
 
