When a few faculty members of a Kochi-based educational institution shook their legs to  , an already popular song from the Malayalam film Velipadinte Pusthakam, little did they expect that their performance would transcend borders. In fact, their video made the song popular outside Kerala, with currently 17M views on YouTube, inching closer to the video from the movie, which has over 20M views. The song even caught the attention of American TV host, comedian and writer Jimmy Kimmel, thanks to its similarity with his name. 

 Renjith Unni, one of the singers of the trendy track, says he had expected good response for the quirky lyrics and beats from youngsters. “But this level of response, I would say, was unanticipated,” he says with a smile, adding, “It was a delight to see the song making waves on social media — people of varied age groups in  , Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and other states lapped up the song — many students and professional dancers released their own videos and watching them were sheer fun.”
 
 Recollecting his experience, the singer says he considers himself lucky to have bagged a chance to sing for the film, which has his favourite star, Mohanlal. He says, “The icing on the cake was singing for Lalettan’s film as I have been a huge fan of his. It was a dream come true for me. Working with music director Shaan Rahman and my co-singer   was a memorable experience as the duo has been a successful combination and is way more experienced than me. Jimmiki Kammal is my big break. I have been getting offers from Tamil, too, but I think I should not reveal about those now.”
 
 A native of Kochi, Renjith says it was his passion for music that made him choose Chennai as his base 15 years ago. Having had exposure to classical music at a very young age, he realised during his teenage years that music was his calling. After securing a Diploma in Isai Kalamani from Adyar Carnatic Music College, he is now eyeing a Doctorate in Carnatic Music from Madras University. Like most of the singers these days, he, too, hopes to foray into music direction one day.
 
 Pinning hopes on carving a niche in Tamil, he considers being a part of three tracks in Uttama Villain and singing with Benny Dayal as a gratifying experience. Ask him about his favourite genre, and pat comes the reply, “Melody! But I believe that a playback singer should be adept and attempt all the genres. AR Rahman is my inspiration. I admire KJ Yesudas sir, SPB and Hariharan, too. Working with Rahman would be an ever-memorable moment for me. I hope I will be blessed with a chance.” 
 
