JAIPUR: In a major setback to the  , the   on Friday did not grant stay on the   judgment which struck down 5% Special Backward Classes (SBC) reservation. 

 However, it got some relief as the court said the government should not disturb people who had already got admission in educational institutions and employment under the SBC till the matter is disposed of. The court asked government to maintain status quo on such appointments in jobs and admissions in education institutes in future.
 
 The bench of Justice J Chelameshwar and Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre while allowing states special leave petition (SLP) asked the state government to maintain status quo as on February 3, 2017 till the final disposal of the petition.
 
 The court order said, “Admissions so made to the educational institutions and appointments so made by the state shall not be disturbed pending final hearing of the matter. We also make it clear that no fresh admission and appointments shall be made pursuant to this interim order.”
 
 “The SC did not grant stay on the high court judgment of December 9, 2016 that was sought by the state government. As a temporary relief, the court ordered not to disturb the recruitment and admissions made before December 9, 2016. However, in all pending and future recruitment/admissions, the SBC benefit cannot be granted till the appeal is decided,” said Shobit Tiwari, lawyer for Capt Gurvinder Singh and others on whose petition that high court struck down SBC quota.
 
 The division bench of the Rajasthan High Court on December 9 last year scrapped the Rajasthan Special Backward Classes (SBC) reservation Act 2015 that provisions for 5% quota to five communities, including Gujjars. The high court struck down the notification of October 2015, saying that there were “no extra ordinary circumstances” to allow the state’s overall reservation in government jobs and education institutes to go beyond the 50% cap.
 
 The Act had provided 5% reservation in jobs and educational institutes to five communities, namely Gujjars (Gurjars), Banjara (Baldia, Labana), Gadia-Lohar (Gadolia), Raika (Rebari, Debasi), Gadaria (Gaadri, Gayari).
 
 Following the impugned notification, overall reservation in the state reached 54%, which was in violation of the 50% cap set by the Supreme Court.
 
 The division bench of Justice M N Bhandari and J K Ranka passed the 199-page judgment on a writ petition filed by ex-Army Capt Gurvinder Singh, the Samta Andolan Samiti and others.
 
 The division bench found fault also with the SBC Commission, which was headed by Justice (retired) I S Israni, which studied the status of 82 OBC communities in the state. The high court said there were many discrepancies in the SBC Commission report, so its recommendations cannot be accepted.
 
