HYDERABAD: It's not the first time   has batted irresponsibly when his team expected more from him. Hyderabad was the third recent instance, the second innings of the New Zealand Test matches offering the other two. But the all-rounder, who gave Ashwin his only wicket of the match after scoring a fluent 82, justified the shot and said it was positive intent.

 
 
 
 "Well, if you look at my knock, throughout the innings I was playing shots. So that one, I didn't connect well and that's all I can say. But yeah other than that I think it was very positive the way I was batting. I didn't want to change my innings, I was playing the way I have been playing for the last five-six years," he said on Saturday. "I like to contribute to the team. I was not happy even when I scored 217. But I am not going to change my style of play. I know if I change it, I don't think I will be Shakib. That's my way of thinking."
 
 Shakib was watchful to start with against his former Kolkata Knight Riders teammate  , who cranked it up early in the day. "He was bowling really well, probably the best spell I faced in my career. The way he was moving the ball both ways, it was tremendous. All credit goes to him. I was thinking I need to be positive at that time. If there is a ball to hit, I will hit it and the rest I will play with soft hands and not nick it.
 
 When Riyad bhai ( ) was out, the ball was moving a lot and it was difficult to survive. I was lucky to survive, he couldn't. But everyone plays to contribute. Sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't. But we are 11 people in the team and everyone has responsibility. But the day someone clicks, he needs to go for it."
 
 Shakib didn't but the all-rounder lauded the manner in which   and Mehedi Hasan Miraz held the innings together with their unbroken 87-run stand for the seventh wicket.
 
 "They batted very well. Mushfiq bhai especially didn't play any bad shot throughout the innings. Miraz's first 50 is special for him. We rate him highly and today he proved it. I am hopeful that he will make a big one tomorrow. We want them to play the first session and maybe score 100-120 runs that can take us close to saving the follow-on, which is our first target as of now."
 
 Asked if Bangladesh considered playing Rahim only as a batsman, Shakib said: "When the situation is tough, he likes to stand up and do the hard work for the team. That character has helped him play so long for Bangladesh. He likes both batting and keeping."
 
