Despite a relationship that headlines refuse to leave alone, 
  has managed to stay out of major controversy thanks to quite a middle-class ethic ("I just want to quietly do my work and go home"). But that ethic also includes not taking things lying down, as she was taught by her feminist dad that "if you know what you are capable of, then you go out there and give it to people." So she won't chest-beat about sexism in   but won’t be silent either, won't call 
  nepotistic but also won't negate the experiences of others, and yes, doesn't talk about her personal life but also doesn't shy away from responding when it begins to take away from her professional success. Excerpts:

  
 When I decided to turn producer, I was 25 and the only female producer at the time, especially among my contemporaries. I do think people didn't take me too seriously, but the industry was very supportive of me too. I’d get messages from people like  , saying how proud they were of me. There were naysayers also, who say nonsense like actresses are not supposed to do this, especially at their peak, why take the risk, etc. It's a mindset thing, that's just what they believe things to be. It’s not like I take it as a challenge or a fight, honestly. It literally doesn't bother me. If I know which direction I want to head in, I'll do that only na, no matter what people say.
 
  
  
 I'm actually very afraid to answer this question. Because when you pose this question, it reinforces the bullshit in people's head... See, there are all kinds of people here. I don't think people in India are ready, because of the way things have always been, for women taking charge. There will always be opposition to change, that is the nature of change. But the person who has decided to take on the change is prepared for it. I was prepared for this.
  
  
 I did not anticipate this, definitely, but that just shows people's mentality in this country, and a section of the media. At the same time, there was media that was very supportive. But then you find those regressive people also. And usually, it comes from a place of your own failures. When you're a failure yourself, you can't take the success of someone, and definitely not of a woman. Often enough, we've seen that they don't get the credit they truly deserve, but I literally don't give a shit. I'm doing what I'm doing, people can say what they want to say, and I'll continue working hard. I know how hard it is, the sacrifices I'm making. I could have had an easy life and just been an actress – it's a very good life. I feel like a struggler, a newcomer, as producer, and I know the pain and tears I've gone through. And this is painful, yeah. Because when that happens, you feel like, yaar... But then you also have to realise that this is your test, you're being tested whether you can stand this bullcrap. Because when you rise above this gutter, then there'll be no nonsense like that. 
 
  
  
 Yeah, exactly. But that's fine also. That's just the way it is. Things are far worse for women who are not even in the limelight, who get married and... how conveniently their part in the failure or success of anything in the family's life is... so it's a very deep-rooted mentality, and it can only change when they see a girl doing so well and encourage their daughters too. If I really succeed in what I'm doing, then so many parents will encourage their daughters to do what I did. 
 
  
 Perhaps, yeah. But see, the reason I say I haven't faced nepotism is because it's not something I knew about, it wasn't directed towards me, directly. Karan did accept that he thought I wouldn't have a future in films, but it could also do with the fact that maybe he didn't think... Maybe he was judging me on the way I looked, or on the basis of my audition, or whatever. I don't know why exactly he said that, so it would be best for people to ask him. But I would not assume that he was being nepotistic. He could have thought I wasn't good looking enough, or that I might not be a good enough actor. But I say I haven't faced nepotism because Aditya Chopra, despite anyone who said anything, stuck with me. He believed in my talent and gave me that opportunity. Even after that, I've never seen another actor get a role just because she was somebody's... But I also say that in this industry, if you're doing well, people will work with you, if you're not doing well, nobody will work with you. It's really a business thing. I don't take it so personally because I know that this is how the cookie crumbles here. But at the same time, we cannot negate somebody's experiences, and I'm nobody to make a comment on what someone said is true or not true. Because if it was true for them, it is true. It’s as simple as that. But for me, the case might be different. So we should respect everyone's opinion and experiences and leave it at that.
 
  
  
 
  
 A balancing act on my part, or however you see me, is not a pre-decided or contrived way of doing something. This is who I am, I will not take things lying down, I will not settle for something I feel is not worthy of my talent. At the same time, the way I am, I just believe that I want to quietly do my work. I would have done that even if people were not talking about feminism right now. My trajectory and my life would have gone exactly the same way. 
  
 That is what I believe. At the same time, I won't take shit from anybody, I’ll speak my mind. For me, principles and being correct is very important. Following a righteous life is very important, because that is the only way I get satisfaction. I was brought up like that. I was also taught to be strong, courageous, a go-getter, and not take things lying down. It’s how I was even while growing up, so obviously it will reflect in the way things have been for me. That’s why I'm so away from everybody, you know. I’m not very social, I just like to do my work and go back to my room. But I really want to do such credible work that I'm able to inspire more people to, firstly, make films which are led by female protagonists, and also for girls to feel like they can do so much in this industry. 
 
  
  
  
 You know, I don't know. And I don’t go through all this on Twitter. I just know what I believe in, how I want to lead my life. It's by my rules, by what I think is correct or incorrect, and if somebody has a problem with it, they can keep it to themselves, or just shout on Twitter and leave it at that. But you can't impose yourself on anybody. For example, right now, people are making feminism sound like it's some aggressive male-bashing, which it isn't. It's not about hating men. I think somewhere, that is kind of, annoying. And also, if something in a society is so deep-rooted, obviously, people will not understand... It's like having a new thing in your hands but you don't know what to do with it. You're used to something else, and suddenly, that is being challenged. And whenever people's opinions or comfort levels get challenged, it's not easy for them. 
 
 So that is why, right now, whether they are shouting online or whatever, it's important that women are coming out and speaking for themselves, standing up for themselves. It will be nice if men also start to do that for them. Like I say, my brother is a feminist, my father is a feminist. And he's a feminist because he believed in giving equal rights to my brother and me, because he never, for a second, made me feel like I can't achieve something just because I'm a girl. My father, and my brother too, told me that if you know what you are capable of, then you go out there and give it to people. So I’ve not suddenly woken up to feminism. The only problem is that this term is very highly abused and it’s not understood for what it really is. I just wish people were better educated about this.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
