NAGPUR: A Chinese street food vendor, who also doubles up as an astrologer, allegedly raped a Std XII girl at a resort on   by offering her water laced with sedatives. Though the incident took place on January 8, the case was registered at the Sadar police station on Thursday.

 The arrested accused, Amrish Sharma (35), was produced before the court of Friday that remanded him in police custody till January 16. The medical examination of the survivor has indicated use of force on her private parts. The doctor also did not rule out sexual intercourse which prompted the police seek custody of the accused.
 
 The girl’s father works as a security guard, while her mother is a housewife. She also has a younger sister.
 
 Sonam (name changed) is learnt to have befriended Sharma, who sells Chinese food near  , while visiting his stall along with other friends. Sharma impressed the survivor by flaunting his so-called astrological knowledge. He would often try to analyze her character and also predict future, which left the teenager mesmerized. It is learnt that the two started communicating frequently over phone.
 
 Sources said on the day of the incident, Sharma called up Sonam asking her where she was. He reached Poonam Chambers at Chhaoni after Sonam said she was there. Sharma then took her to his car for a spin. Sonam, who was already acquainted with Sharma, did not distrust him.
 
 Police sources said it was in the car that Sharma offered Sonam water laced with sedatives for the first time, after which she had fell asleep. Sonam claimed that she observed being driven through a forested road after waking up. Sharma told the girl that they were heading towards a resort where some more friends are expected.
 
 It was at the resort that Sonam asked Sharma about the friends, but he claimed that they were on the way. Thereafter, Sonam was offered water mixed with sedatives for the second time and she fell asleep once again. She woke up only to find herself naked in the bed.
 
 Sharma somehow managed to pacify her before leaving her at Poonam Chambers later in the day.
 
 Sonam initially narrated her plight to friends who had took her to the police station. However, the police wanted her parents to come for consultation. After registering an offence, Sharma was picked up from his stall on Thursday.
 
 
