PUNE: The   police on Monday filed a first information report ( ) in the dogs’ poisoning case in Kothrud. 

 The number of dogs who died is rising, an animal welfare officer said. From the initial eight, the number of dogs that died of consuming a poisonous substance is now 14. 
 
 Animal welfare officers said the increasing body count indicates that the dogs are still eating the poison-laced food left somewhere in the area. “Initially, we came across eight bodies of dogs that died of poisoning in the area. However, on May 7, we received some calls reporting six more poisoned dogs and a pig. Another dog was found foaming in the mouth the same day and was taken to ResQ at Bhugaon. All the dogs that died had vomited pieces of chicken,” Neena Rai, AaCT India representative who is investigating the case along with animal welfare officer   and others.
 
 PSI Abhijeet Jogdand from Kothrud Police station said the FIR was filed under the Indian Penal Code section 429 and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. 
 
 “The postmortem has been conducted and investigations are on. The area in which the incident took place is isolated and hence we did not get any CCTV footage of the culprits. We will be talking to the residents of the area for some leads and the miscreants will be arrested soon,” Jogdand said.
 
 On May 4, Mathrani had received a complaint that several dogs in Siddhivinayak Colony in Kothrud were poisoned. Rai along with other volunteers arrived at the spot. A panchnama was done and the bodies were retrieved and brought to Kothrud police station where they were kept in safe custody locked in an ambulance. An FIR in the case was filed on Monday by Rai.
 
 Mathrani said brutal crimes against animals are on the rise in Pune at an alarming rate. “The dogs’ brutal and quick deaths points to the possibility of a very strong poisonous substance used to contaminate the chicken that was found on the site. We are investigating this case thoroughly. Forensic reports are awaited,” she said.
 
