BENGALURU: Australia captain Steve Smith faced calls for disciplinary action on Wednesday after a row over alleged cheating overshadowed the second Test against India, with his predecessor   accusing him of "unacceptable" behaviour.

 India's dramatic, 75-run victory on Tuesday in Bangalore, after Australia crashed to 112 all out, has left the four-match series between the world's top two sides tantalisingly poised at 1-1.
 
 But Wednesday's headlines were dominated by Indian skipper  's accusation that Smith abused the Decision Review System (DRS), after he was seen looking to the Australian dressing room while considering appealing against his dismissal for lbw.
 
 Indian cricket board's Twitter handle took a dig at Smith, tweeting footage of the incident and asking "DRS - Dressing room review system?".
 
  
  
 The game's rules forbid players to consult with anyone off the pitch about whether to seek a review from the umpires, particularly as support staff have access to television replays in the dressing-room.
 
 At the post-match press conference, Smith -- who was quickly waved off the field by the umpire -- admitted he had been at fault, but put it down to a one-off "brain fade".
 
 But an angry Kohli said it wasn't an isolated incident and "that it's been happening for the last three days, and it has to stop".
 
 Smith's explanation was met with widespread sceptism with even Clarke doubting whether it was a one-off, given the non-striker   seemed to suggest he consult the dressing-room.
 
 "If what Virat Kohli is saying is true and Australia are using their support staff to help them decide on a DRS decision then that's not on, that's unacceptable," Clarke told a TV network.
 
 "I think Steve Smith respects the game and will always uphold the integrity of the game and if it is just a one-off then it is a brain-fade and he's made a mistake.
 
 "My concern, my worry is, that when you look at the footage at what happened, Peter Handscomb... actually suggests to Steve Smith to turn around and have a look to the support staff.
 
 "Now if it is only a one-off, I don't think that would have happened."
 
 Peter Handscomb, who was at the non-striker's end during the incident, tweeted after the 75-run defeat that he was to blame.
 
 "I referred smudga (Smith) to look at the box... my fault and was unaware of the rule. Shouldn't take anything away from what was an amazing game!" he wrote.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Although no formal complaint has been lodged with the International Cricket Council (ICC), a source in the Indian board said that the team would press for charges.
 
 Indian batting legend   said the ICC should punish Smith for a "quite blatant" breach of the rules.
 
 Sourav Ganguly, who captained India from 2000-05, also demanded authorities "take action".
 
 "The umpires and match referee must ensure this doesn't happen in future," he said.
 
 Another Indian batting great,  , tweeted that the Australian's actions were "totally against the spirit of the game".
 
  
  
 
