On Flight From Lucknow: SP patriarch   has said that he will start campaigning for the party from February 12 once the process of filing nominations is over. Mulayam added the SP government led by his son and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister   has done good work.
 
  The 75-year-old SP leader was flying to New Delhi from Lucknow on Sunday when ET caught up with him on the flight. In an almost hour-long conversation, Mulayam said he did everything a father could do for his son.
  
  “Sab kuch de diya hai usse. Aakhir beta hai mera. Kissi aur ne yeh nahi kiya hai, (Punjab CM Parkash Singh) Badal ko dekh lijiye (Have given everything to my son. After all, he is my son. Look at Badal). He is 89, but still hasn’t handed over the party to his son,” Mulayam said.
  
  Claiming that SP would have won majority on its own, Mulayam said the alliance with   was not necessary. But since SP had assured the Congress earlier of an alliance it had to keep its word. Mulayam said in the last few days he had been counselling his son Akhilesh on several crucial matters.
  
  “Sab ko saath lekar chalna zaroori hai.Yeh samajh raha hai woh (It’s important to take everyone along. Akhilesh is understanding),” he said. He said it took him several years to build his party and people know that.
  
  “Party ke karyakarta ko khush rakhna zaroori hai. Akhilesh seekh raha hai (It’s important to keep party workers happy. Akhilesh is learning).” Mulayam added the alliance should not result in some deserving party workers being denied tickets and that he had conveyed his view on the same to his son.
  
  On his brother Shivpal who along with   was seen as the architect of the feud in the party, Mulayam said his brother was a shareef (decent) man who had stood by him all his life.
  
  “Jeet jayega Shivpal chunav. Bahut shareef hai. Naraaz tha par ab chup hai. Mere liye usne police ki lathi khaai hai (Shivpal will win. He is decent. He was angry, but is quiet now. He has suffered lathis for me).”
  
  On Amar Singh, Mulayam said: “Maine unko samjha diya hai. Woh Akhilesh ke khilaaf kuch nahin karenge. Aakhir beta hai mera (I have explained it to him. He won’t work against Akhilesh. After all, he is my son).” He said Singh only had his best interest at heart. “Hum jeet jayenge. Ladai sirf BJP ke saath hai (We will win. The fight is only with the BJP),” he said, dismissing the prospects of Mayawati’s BSP. “Besides her core base nobody else will vote for her.”
  
  On demonetisation, he said besides the BJP’s core voters nobody else would vote for the party because of the move. He said the Muslim voters, which constitute almost 20% of UP’s electorate, were firmly behind SP.
  
  “Mere naam par vote dega Musalmaan (Muslims will vote on my name).” He also said Akhilesh’s campaign posters also sought votes in his name and that the UP CM had said the polls would be fought under his guidance. Mulayam said he had advised Akhilesh to meet more minority community leaders and keep their concerns in mind.
  
  Mulayam was silent about Congress V-P  , but effusive in his praise of his sister Priyanka. “Bahut samajhdaar hai. Meri bahut izzat karti hai (She is very intelligent and respects me).” Mulayam would be in the Capital for a few days for the budget session that starts on Tuesday, after which he will start his public meetings in UP. “Mere naam pe vote padta hai. Party aisi banayi hai maine. Saalon ka sangharsh hai.”
  
  Talking to agencies later in the day, the SP patriarch voiced displeasure over the SP-Congress alliance and said that he would not campaign for it in the state assembly polls. 
