BENGALURU: The Bengaluru leg of the 19th   held on December 17 at Ryan International School, Yelahanka, provided the right platform for 4,000 students from 15 schools to showcase their prowess.   organized the Ryan Minithon with 11 races in Bengaluru, Nagpur, Jalna, Jabalpur, Raipur, Jaipur, Navi Mumbai, Chandigarh, Faridabad, Mumbai, Surat and Nasik.

 The minithon has been a huge success with 65,000 boys and girls participating every year. Inspired by the vision of chairman A F Pinto and managing director   of Ryan Group of In stitutions, this year 12,562 students from 50 schools and the entire Ryan fraternity participated with zest.
 
 National swimmers Ritu and Kushi V were among the 24 dignitaries present. The under-12, 14 and 16 boys' and girls' races were ceremoniously flagged off. Separate routes for 2, 3 and 4 kilometres were charted.
 
 Girish Nambiar, senior manager at Wipro Ltd, said no matter what the outcome is, participation in competitions is essential to grow.
 
 Jnanajyothi High School, Yelahanka, emerged as the champion.Ryan International School, Yelahanka, was the first runner-up while Ryan International School, Kundalahalli, came second.
 
 Butterfingers author enthrals little ones
 
 November 2016 saw Khyrun nisa A, author of the chil dren's fiction series Butterfingers, visit Brigade School, Mahadevapura. A delightful speaker, Khyrunnisa engaged marvellously with the 13-year-olds.Many students were familiar with her books, the comic strip and fortnightly humorous column. The author umn. The author inspired students to read ­ not only her books, but all kinds of books. She extolled the virtues of reading for pleasure. Listening to her journey from a casual writer for a competition to be coming a full-time author was a revelation for all, that no dream is too small to follow, neither too big to achieve.
 
 Principal of Brigade School, Mahadevapura, Saroja Amudhan said: “Reading in times of digital content is changing, but that doesn't mean it gives us less pleasure. In today's world where writing has become a rare habit among the young, interactions such as these motivate children to write for pleasure.“
 
 Students celebrate cultural diversity
 
 The Annual Day at Brigade School, Malleswaram, was celebrated with vigour. The theme was the Bread Basket of India the beautiful states of Pun jab and Haryana. The hauntingly melodious song, Khwaja mere Kh waja, set the mood for the evening.
 
 The beats of the dhol, an integral component of a Punjabi celebra tion, got the audience tapping their feet to the reverberating rhythm.
 
 Saare Jahan se Achcha, a pictur esque depiction of India, was per formed using the medium of song and art. Scintillating dances and Punjabi medleys were the other vivacious performances of the evening. The Acapella version of the song Jai Ho and the Lohri dance of Punjab were the high lights.
 
 Principal Anuradha Benegal said: “Cultural programmes foster creativity, social skills and self expression among children. Pun jab, which was the theme for our Annual Day, not only involved children in theatre, music and art but also gave them the opportunity to explore various facets of the state's rich culture.“
 
