Nagpur: Students seeking admission in Std XI Science Bifocal stream are going to be in for a big surprise once the new online Common Admission Procedure (CAP) for city colleges is implemented next month.  As per rules, students seeking admission in Bifocal won’t be able change the allotted college even if they fail to secure a seat in their stream (fisheries, computer science, electronics etc). The only option left after that will be to continue in General Science or grab a Bifocal seat under the management quota. While online CAP is a new system for Nagpur, it is already being used for Std XI admission in Mumbai and Pune.  Procedurally, a student applies for General Science (not bifocal) through online CAP. Then they are allotted colleges based on merit rankings and their choice of colleges given while submitting the online form.  Sanjay Charalwar, president of CAP Committee, said, “The software allots seats for General Science after which the college takes over and fills the Bifocal seats based on merit rankings.”  So if a student opting for Fisheries stream misses out in the cut-off race, he cannot shift to another college where a seat is guaranteed.  Madhusudan Mude, secretary of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district), said this particular clause should be changed or the entire online CAP be scrapped. “Why should a student get stuck in the same college? At least not when he can get admission in a Bifocal stream at some other institute. In offline mode, there was scope to do so.,” he said. Mude added that the system may promote management quota in colleges and create an environment where donations might be taken.  But education officials say the online system promotes transparency and merit-based admissions for the seats allotted under CAP. And, as of now, no one can bypass the system and approach a different college directly to secure admissions.  Shivling Patve, assistant director of education (Nagpur division), emphatically said no offline admissions will be allowed from the 2017-18 session. “Regardless of the quota a students seeks admission under, it is mandatory to apply through online CAP. There will be complete transparency in this. The same system, with same rules, is in place at Mumbai and Pune,” he said.  The admission process will start a day after SSC results are declared. Though no official date has been declared by state board yet, Std X results usually come in either first or second week of June. Due to civic polls held across Maharashtra earlier this year, it is likely to be in mid-June.