VISAKHAPATNAM: Delay in court procedure in granting divorce seems to be a blessing in disguise for some  . Recently, in Vizag family court, there were two such cases where the couples reunited after eight-ten years due to delay in disposal of the divorce cases. 

 In the first case, both the husband and wife are employees of  . The couple has two minor children. Around eight years ago, when the couple were in their early 30s, the husband had filed for divorce suspecting his wife of infidelity, though the wife had strongly objected to the allegations. The children were with the mother. Even after five years of staying separately, divorce was not granted and the case was dismissed. Once again, a divorce case was filed and this time, it was based on mutual consent. After a lot of mediations and counselling and lapse of another three years, the couple decided to stay together once more.
 
 “I am happy that my daughter and son-in-law have taken this decision to reunite, at least for the sake of their children burying all antipathy. They have wasted a lot of time to complete the divorce procedure. But the delays at court gave them time to reconsider their decisions and finally they have realised their mistakes. We as the family members hope that they continue to live together like this all their lives,” said KS Narayana (name changed), a retired mandal revenue officer and father of the woman.
 
 In another case, the husband had filed for divorce suspecting his wife was having extramarital affairs. The husband is a central government employee while the wife was teacher in a government school. The allegations could not be proved and after 10 years of filing for divorce, the couple reunited once again for the sake of their two children.
 
 Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP)   said inordinate delays in disposal of cases are giving the couples time to reconsider their decisions and retract from divorce, especially, when the couples are counselled that they should reunite for the sake of their children and not waste time in fighting a legal battle.
 
 In such cases, marriage counsellors also play a crucial role in reuniting the couples. According to Section 5 and 6 of Family Court Act 1984, marriage counsellors should be appointed at family courts. “However, most of the family courts including that of Vizag has no counsellors. In the absence of counsellors couples often go to  , where the focus is more on teaching the spouse a lesson and without any humanitarian approach, separation or divorce is contemplated. But divorce is a social issue and not a criminal issue in usual cases. Therefore, instead of involving the police, it’s advisable that social counsellors or psychological counsellors advice the estranged couples. Instead of the police station, the social works or psychology department of   can have a separate unit or academic set-up to address the socio-psychological issue of breakdown of marriage and ways to revive it,” said Muralidhar.
 
 According to family court lawyer D Shobarani, around 1,800 divorce cases were filed at the district family court in 2016 that is around 150 cases per month. Out of cases filed, more than 500 are on mutual consent. The most common reasons of divorce according to advocates include infidelity, incompatibility, ego issues between couples, alcoholism and some cases dowry harassment and medical problems such as impotency. “Lack of proper counselling by family elders as well as by professional counsellors, ego clashes at times due to the inability of the husband to accept an economically empowered partner, role or interference of joint families in a negative way all escalate the cases of filing for divorce,” averred Shobarani.
 
 Around 1,800 divorce cases were filed at the district family court in 2016 that is around 150 cases per month. Out of cases filed, more than 500 are on mutual consent. Most common reasons of divorce include infidelity, incompatibility, ego issues between couples, alcoholism, dowry harassment and medical problems 
 
