MADURAI: Hundreds of youngsters marched from Goripalayam to   district collectorate demanding that the   on   (bull taming) be revoked and impose a ban on   (People for Ethical Treatment of Animals). 

 They raised slogans against PETA and urged the Supreme Court to allowing them to conduct jallikattu as it is a traditional sport of Tamil Nadu. (PETA is one of the organisations on whose petition the Supreme Court imposed the ban on jallikattu)
 
 Taking a cue from a mass rally by youngsters in Chennai on Sunday, the youth in Madurai started mobilizing themselves using social media networks like Facebook and instant message apps like WhatsApp. Responding to the call, a huge number of them gathered at Goripalayam junction on Monday morning.
 
 However, there was a twist at this juncture as caste outfits like Pasumpon Desiya Kazhagam, Thevar Peravai and Forward Bloc tried to take over the demonstration. Leaders of these outfits jumped the bandwagon and garlanded the statue of freedom fighter and community leader Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar. Several youngsters appeared disappointed at this sudden turn of events but remained in the protest.
 
 The march commenced as planned as they raised slogans and reached Anna Bus stand. Traffic has to be diverted on the busy Panagal road. Some of outfit leaders climbed on Valluvar Statue and started raising slogans. While one section of youngsters remained in the place, majority of them started moving towards collectorate.
 
 Police personnel were deployed at gates of the collectorate. They gate remained closed. The caste outfit leaders were let in with their petition but youngsters have decided to submit a separate petition. 
 
 One section of youngsters sat in front of the gates demanding that collector come and meet them. 
 
 After submitting the petitions, the outfit leaders came out and prepared to address the youngsters. But the youngsters refused to listen to them. 
 
 “Outfits have nothing to do with this protest. We, youngsters have organised this demonstration for jallikattu,” said R Vinod, a college student.
 
 The youngsters waited at the spot till a tahsildar came out and received their petition. The petition appealed to the district administration to take measures for the conduct of jallikattu. Once the petition was received, the youngsters dispersed.
 
 
