KOLKATA:   investigating the fake doctors’ racket active at various   now believe that the accused were part of a   that runs medical admission rackets. The   has brought accused Khusinath Halder and Kaiser Alam — who were posing as doctors in north Bengal — to Kolkata on Saturday. 

 CID officials said there were several Kolkata connections that need to be investigated with the duo’s help. CID is likely to produce them in a Kolkata court on Sunday and then take them into custody.
 
 “At least one of the accused worked as an important recruiter for a Bihar-based gang. His name has been figuring in our records since 2012. Even Kolkata Police investigations into a Jadavpur-based fake medical admission gang had found that this person had played an important role there,” said a source.
 
 There are cases pending against the gang in Kolkata and two cases registered at Siliguri and Kalyani against gang members, which are being probed by CID.
 
 Sources said CID has sought permission to begin looking into the role of a senior heath department officer who had “verified” Halder’s documents on behalf of the state in 2011 and also revoked Halder’s suspension in 2015-16. 
 
 Sources added that a search of the Bhaktinagar residence of Halder has unearthed fake marksheets, Aadhaar cards and voter ID cards. “At least one of the accused was a likely beneficiary who procured his marksheet at a high cost from the Bihar gang. Later he might have joined them,” claimed a source. 
 
 Sources said the gang had probably spread its wings to north Bengal from Golf Green in south Kolkata. “We have come to know that between 2006 and 2010, the kingpin was residing at Golf Green. His father was then employed in a senior position at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. He opened an office at Jodhpur Park to “assist” students during admission. It was here that his business really took off,” explained the source.
 
  “It is certain that his gang has a presence across India, especially since his victims are spread across the country. We are presently raiding four places in the state to trace him,” said an official.
 
 
