CHENNAI: In a bid to change their fortunes,   handed the coaching reins to V Soundara Rajan. And the new boss of the I-League debutants got off to a winning start as Chennai sealed a 2-1 win over fellow strugglers Mumbai FC at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here on Saturday. The hosts' victory meant more misery for Mumbai who slumped to yet another defeat, their sixth in a row.

 For Chennai, Brazilian striker Charles scored the winner with a brilliant individual effort in the 70th minute after Dhanpal Ganesh nullified Anderson da Silva's goal in the first half.
 
 Recovering from the defeats in their last two matches, Chennai made a cautious start to the match. Even though they were playing at home, it seemed that Santosh Kashyap's Mumbai were more comfortable as they made quite a few inroads in the first 25 minutes. With relentless pressure being applied by Mumbai, Chennai's defence finally caved in the 27th minute when they conceded a penalty .Mumbai's new Brazilian signing, Anderson da Silva, calmly stepped up and sent goalkeeper Shahin Lal the wrong way to put his side in the lead two minutes after being introduced to the attack.
 
 Stung by the goal, Chennai began to show a bit of intent and were rewarded within two minutes later. Edwin  's fantastic delivery saw an unmarked Ganesh head the ball into the far corner of the net.
 
 In the 70th minute, Rajan's men found the winner. After receiving a pass from the right, Charles flicked the ball over his head, made a swift turn and sprinted towards the goal with the ball firmly glued to his feet. Such was his speed that the Mumbai defenders failed to keep pace. The Brazilian also evaded an onrushing Kattimani before slotting the ball home coolly.
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru FC dropped their first points at home this season after a fortuitous goal allowed Minerva Punjab FC to claim a point with a 1-1draw at the   on Saturday . The point leaves the Blues on fifth position with 11 points from seven games. Sunil Chhetri's fourth goal in as many games seemed like it would do the job for the reigning champions, before a harmless looking cross from   looped into Bengaluru's goal after a heavy deflection off Sandesh Jhingan.
 
 In the day's early kick-off, DSK Shivajians rode on Sanju Pradhan and Shane McFaul's goals to beat   Lajong FC 2-1, ending the latter's four-match winning streak at home. The Dave Rogers-coached squad made the best of the first half, scoring their first goal in the 16th minute of the match, whereas Shillong Lajong wasted the opportunities that came their way even as Cameroonian striker Dipanda Dicka found a fine equaliser.
 
