NEW DELHI: The   in Delhi has said that a school should behave like a parent while dealing with students in an emergency situation. It said that when a school admits students it also undertakes to render a reasonably possible help and assistance to them, whenever required. 

 Having made the observations, it found a school guilty of “gross negligence” for not getting urgent medical help to a student who suffered a fatal attack of asthma and directed it to pay Rs 10 lakh   to his father.
 
 The national   held that a student may not be the consumer of the school as far as the core function of imparting education or taking examinations is concerned. However, the position would be altogether different where the deficiency on the part of the educational institution is found in an activity altogether different from imparting education, when its charging a consideration for such an activity, it said.
 
 “In fact, the school officials are expected to act and behave like   of the child in such an emergency. Valuable time was lost on account of school officials waiting for family members of the child to come to the school. Instead of waiting, they should have immediately taken him to the nearest doctor or the hospital,” observed presiding member Justice V K Jain.
 
 Even if the student was not carrying inhaler with him despite being asthmatic, that would not absolve the school officials from the gross negligence displayed by them in taking even the basic care expected from them, the commission said.
 
 On March 21, 2003, Rishab Goel, who was asthmatic, suffered an acute attack while appearing for his exams. He was reportedly rushed to the house of the school principal, who expressed his inability to help him as no medical facility was available in the school. The other students informed Rishab’s family about his condition. His sister rushed to the school and took him to a doctor’s clinic where he was declared dead.
 
 The school authorities, however, claimed that Rishab was playing with other students when he suffered asthma attack and they rushed him to the office, where after taking permission from the staff, they called his family.
 
 Both the school and the father had filed separate revision petitions where the former had challenged the Rs 5 lakh compensation awarded by the state commission in favour of the father who, on the other hand, sought enhancement of the amount.
 
 The body further noted that even if the school does not have the facility of an in-house doctor, the least expected from the management in such a situation is to take the student to the nearest doctor or hospital.
 
 “The educational institution cannot be permitted to wash-away its responsibility to provide such minimal aid and assistance on the pretext that it was not rendering any services to the students,” asserted the commission.
 
 It was evident for the national commission that despite being informed by other students that Rishab, while playing in the field had suffered an acute attack of asthma, the school officials did not take him to any doctor or hospital. In addition, the body said that school staff “did not even bother” to call his parents and it were the students playing with him who contacted Rishab’s mother.
 
 “In my view, considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, including that possibly the life of the child could have been saved had he been immediately taken to a hospital or a doctor, compensation to the extent of Rs 10 lakh cannot be said to be unjustified or excessive,” said the national commission.
 
 
