INDORE: The top four office-bearers of   ( ), including chairman   and president  , demitted their posts on Wednesday in compliance to the Supreme Court’s order on implementation of the   recommendations.

 The committee had recommended that any office-bearer in   ( ) or its state associations, who has cumulatively completed nine years in a post, stands down and goes through a cooling-off period of three years.
 
  “I have resigned as the president of MPCA. We had to comply with the Supreme Court orders. My tenure is over and I was neither keen on holding on to the position, nor does this affect me. I do not need an official post to contribute towards the game and the players here,” said Sanjay Jagdale. “I will be there for all the players and officials whenever they need my help,” he added.
 
 Apart from the chairman and president, both the vice-presidents of MPCA, MK Bhargava and Ashok Jagdale also had to quit their posts complying by the Lodha committee recommendations which say that office bearers above 70 years stand ineligible to hold the post in any state association or BCCI.
 
 Both the vice presidents were above 70 years of age bar set by the Lodha committee that forced them to leave their posts in MPCA.
  
 Confirming the demission of these top officials, MPCA secretary, Milind Kanmadikar said “Yes they have stepped down from their posts voluntarily and now we the next step will be taken in accordance with our constitution and supreme court’s orders. The posts will be vacant for now and we will decide about the process of filling the vacant posts in our meeting.”
 
 Scindia was elected unopposed as chairman in 2014 MPCA elections when Kailash Vijayvargiya panel decided not to contest the elections. He defeated Vijayvargiya in the 2010 MPCA elections becoming the president of the association.
  
 While Jagdale was elected as unopposed president of the state association in 2014 and he also served as MPCA secretary till 2010 before becoming the joint secretary of BCCI.
 
 
