NEW DELHI: As part of opposition efforts to close ranks for the coming 

 
   presidential polls 
 
 , billed as a precursor for a "grand coalition" for the 2019   elections, Congress President   stepped up the steam on Wednesday meeting National Conference leader Omar Abdullah and speaking to SP's Mulayam Singh Yadav and RJD chief Lalu Prasad on phone for a joint nominee for the top job. 

 Sources said over the next few days, Sonia is likely to meet TMC chief  , BSP supremo  , and DMK's M K Stalin to build a consensus on nominees for the presidential and vice-presidential polls. Sonia has already met NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Bihar chief minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI's D Raja and JD (S) leader H D Deve Gowda. 
 
 Congress vice-president   has spoken to former Uttar Pradesh CM   and also had discussions with Pawar and Yechury.
 
 Sources said Congress is likely to make efforts to reach out to BJD chief   for the presidential polls, described by party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala as a "battle of ideology". The party may also reach out to NDA allies Shiv Sena or Akali Dal, sources said.
 
 "Our doors and minds are open for we feel that one person cannot decide everything ... and one ideology cannot be thrust upon this country," Surjewala said. 
 
 On behalf of opposition parties, Yechury is likely to to meet Naveen Patnaik on Thursday. BJD, which has had a cosy partnership with the Modi government over three years, may have its own reasons to oppose BJP after the saffron party's commendable show in the panchayat polls.
 
 The opposition is mulling a choice between a non-political person and a hard-boiled political veteran, sources said adding that no specific names had been discussed yet during the meetings. The contest is a foregone conclusion in view of BJP having a shortfall of 18,000 votes in the 11 lakh-plus electoral college, with the required extra votes likely to come from AIADMK which has 59,000 votes. 
 
 Though coming together under one roof is a complicated process for the opposition given the overlapping political turfs of many players, some point to green shoots of new thinking after the recent efforts. 
 
 On the other hand, BJP is confident about the victory as it expects support from some outfits outside the NDA and UPA groupings, like INLD, YSR Congress and AIADMK. 
 
 BJP is likely to spring a Yogi-like surprise while announcing the presidential candidate, having held preliminary discussions on the probables, sources said.
 
