PUNE: With several complaints coming in regarding encroachments on   properties, the state government has sanctioned Rs 1.7 crore for a pilot project under which as many as 438 properties spread on nearly 903 hectares in the district will be surveyed and checked for encroachments and title on the record of rights. The survey will be carried out initially in Pune and   from March to May.

 The detailed survey will highlight if there are any issues with these properties and if there has been any encroachment on them. The objective of the survey is to ascertain the total land belonging to Waqf as these pieces of land cannot be sold or leased out. 
 
 Waqf properties are mainly used for religious or charitable purposes as recognised by the Muslim law and are donated by philanthropists. The state has nearly one lakh acres of Waqf land in Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik.
 
 Additional collector Ramesh Kale said that in Pune district the maximum number of properties are in Purandar and Junnar talukas.
 
 Kale said, “There are some Waqf properties which are in the names of individuals and all this will stand to be corrected.” People can approach the tehsildar’s office if they want the title to be corrected, he added.
 
 While there are 438 Waqf properties in Pune district, there are over 1,400 Waqf properties in Parbhani district which will be part of this survey.
 
 The Aurangabad-based Waqf board monitors all the properties, while the state government is the custodian of these properties. The total expenditure for the survey of all properties in the state has been estimated at Rs 4.28 crore out of which Rs 1.7 crore have been sanctioned for Pune and Parbhani districts in the first phase.
 
 The survey was earlier conducted between 1997-2002 and as per the Waqf Act, 1995, the survey has been done every 10 years. However, it is being carried out after 14 years this time. “It was planned in 2012, but the sanctions took time to come,” officials said.
 
 The team readied for the survey includes additional collector, tehsildar and assistant survey commissioner and revenue officials of the district. The budgetary allocation for the survey has been mainly made for measurements, stationery, appointment of retired officials to help with the survey, publication of the report and electronic total station machines to be used in the survey work.
 
 In an earlier review, senior ministers from the revenue department had said that there was 70% encroachment on Waqf land. The minority department officials have put the figure of Waqf land at 93,418 acre in nearly 23,566 properties in the state. Most of these pieces of land are in Aurangabad, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Konkan region.
 
 
