In many ways, D Udhaya Kumar represented the high noon of  . A techie and academically inclined, Udhaya Kumar had come up with a symbol for the rupee that was accepted as the standard by the Union government in 2010. It was ironic indeed that Udhaya Kumar, the son of a DMK MLA, had made deft use of the Devanagiri sign for ‘r’ to represent the Indian currency.

 Udhaya Kumar seemed to symbolise the position of the DMK as a key partner in the Union government in the 2000s. In Tamil Nadu, the party controlled the government, alternating with the AIADMK. Many decades ago, shedding the separatist tag, Dravidian votaries had settled for the goal of ruling the state and having a stake in Delhi — and that goal had been achieved.
 
 But, soon enough, just as the Dravidian   marked the 50th year of being in power in the state, questions were raised over their future. Tamil exclusivism, celebrating ethnic kinship, love for the language, and backward class empowerment that had powered the parties seemed to have run their course. Corruption charges bedeviled both the parties as Narendra Modi rode to power at the Centre with redefined nationalism.
 
 2016 marked the demise of J Jayalalithaa and the fading away of M Karunanidhi — among the most powerful leaders the Dravidian parties had seen. To many observers, it seemed the state was ready for a new course. What that would be was not very clear.
 
 But, in the last few months, a few landmark events, however, have indicated that the founding ideas of the Dravidian movement remain strongly established in the state. Whether it was the jallikattu agitation or the Neduvasal protests, the feeling that Tamils as a community have been ignored and humiliated has come to the fore.
 
 Actions of governments of neighbouring states as well as the Centre only seemed to have buttressed that perception. "The refusal of the Centre to support the formation of the Cauvery board and the lack of proactive functioning in jallikattu seemed to tell Tamils that they are being neglected," says T Sigamani, a journalist. The feelings of hurt have been compounded by an anxiety that a community with claims to being an ancient civilization and known for staking out its independent identity apart from Sanskrit and Vedic Hinduism is being slighted. 
 
  based on ethnic pride and love for the language had provided the emotional anchor and uniting factor that the Dravidian parties had adopted as they grew to become big political forces. But, at the same time, Dravidian ideology had provided progressive ballast to primordial Tamil identity — it stood for rationalism, science, and social justice. For instance, V Kumaresan, an activist of the Dravidar Kazhagam, staked out a position against organic farming through a letter in response to the article on Nammalvar (March 10) in the Tamil identity series. 
 
 But recent strong advocacy of Tamil identity has thrown up ugly bigotry and male chauvinism — many women’s rights advocates delivered a powerful critique of jallikattu as a sport that emphasizes male dominance. Dalit intellectuals have pointed out that dalits have only a tenuous link with the sport that is often dominated by powerful intermediate castes.
 
 Despite its shortfalls, it appears that Tamil identity will remain the cornerstone of state politics for some time to come. As the BJP under Narendra Modi becomes stronger in the rest of India including in the south, Tamil Nadu may well be a holdout. The BJP has for long argued that Tamil culture and civilization are intrinsically Hindu and bound with the rest of the nation. But its recent actions have ensured that that argument evokes scorn among many in the state. Success in Tamil Nadu politics may well come to the group that is able to harmonize Tamil identity and steers it positively toward development while smoothening its regressive edges.
 
 
