A dawn of dread settled on the city on Tuesday morning, when it woke up to the horrific news of the suicide of 24-year-old student  , who jumped from the 19th storey of a five-star hotel in Bandra. Minutes before he took his life, he had live-streamed a 1.43-minute-long video on  , giving a tutorial on how to end one’s life. In a heartbreaking recording, he gave a step-by-step instruction leading to the fatal act — from writing notes to people, to eating pasta, smoking and drinking. His death went viral on social media in seconds, creating ripples of shock, grief and disbelief. The morbid twist to suicide had people asking if the web camera was the new suicide note. Many wondered what causes people to take such steps, and even worse, broadcast it.
 
 
  
  While there has been a spate of live streaming suicides on the internet abroad, this could be the first for Mumbai. As per a report, Arjun had been surfing websites related to death. Psychiatrist Dr   says what 
 happened only underlines his state of mind, “When someone decides to go ‘live’ this way before he jumps to death, it demonstrates the acute pain that he has gone through. This is a premeditated event and his act may be a way of announcing to the world that 'Look, I have not got any help’. It could also be a way of warning, “Pay attention to others like me',” he explains, adding, “What is worrisome is that it could create more copycat suicides.” 
 
 
  
  Psychiatrist Dr Rajiv Anand says support becomes a crucial factor. “This boy was possibly obsessed with death for a while now. Many students who are pursuing higher academic courses can be extremely lonely, especially those who come to stay in the city from other places. These students don’t have much emotional support, especially when they come here from other metros. This is compounded with a high level of competitiveness and an underlying insecurity of being outsmarted. Such individuals don’t open up to peer groups who are in the same bracket as them. A lack of sharing makes them feel isolated and alienated from others. This loneliness becomes a well for them and leads to meaninglessness, worthlessness and hopelessness. It opens the window for  , which is a fast downhill slope. And that’s perhaps what happened with Arjun.” 
 
 Pointing to depression as the primary cause for extreme acts, Dr Shetty adds, “I have come across cases of kids as young as 10 and 11 who express that they want to take their lives, owing to an inability to cope in the fast-paced world. This age bracket may just fall even lower if we don’t wake up in time,” he warns. Adds psychotherapist Dr Pavan Sonar, “I have even come across cases where depression has hit kids as young as four and five. In teenagers, this may be disguised as angry or high-risk behaviour such as rash driving and taking drugs. This is a huge red flag and one must take serious notice of it. Unfortunately, we also have a certain stigma attached to treating mental health. I have seen that when kids say they want to talk to a counsellor, parents or guardians sometimes ask, ‘Are you mad?’ This is absolutely dangerous and it’s sad. The inability to cope can lead to the extreme step.” 
 
  
  
 At a Mumbai-based suicide prevention helpline, the calls have been pouring in 24x7. Reveals   who runs the helpline, “We get almost 180 calls for help per a day from kids as young as 12, who are extremely disturbed either due to exam stress and in the older lot, due to relationship crises. These callers cannot think clearly and are at a point where they do not know what is the way forward. They are unable to reach out to their parents and friends as they feel they won’t be understood and may be judged and even get punished. Some students say they just cannot study as they can’t cope with a failed relationship and want to drop out, but are scared. We try our best to help but there is only so much we can do as it is just a call, the real help has to start from home.” 
 
 Most colleges and schools in the city have professional counsellors, but are they available to students 24x7, especially those going through a suicidal phase? Some educational institutions in Mumbai have made provisions for this facility. Says Avnita Bir, the Director-Principal of RN Podar School, “As caretakers of our children, our role is not just limited to teaching-learning. Children have their mobile numbers and can call our school’s life coaches at any time. Technology really helps as anxiety, stress or panic can happen at any time of the day or night.” They involve families only if it’s an acute case. 
 However, some colleges still do not have the provision of a round-the-clock counsellor on call. Principal Rajpal Hande of Mithibai College says, “Our college has a professional counsellor, who is there throughout the day for our students, however she is not present 24x7. Students can go up to her with their problems. She also visits classrooms and examination halls to gauge the condition of the kids. If she finds a student has some serious issues, she contacts the parents, teacher and the principal in the school,” he says.
 
 Soumyadipta Banerjee, director, Harkisan Mehta Institute of Media, Research and Analysis, says that they have a support group among the teaching faculty, who keep an eye on students feeling low. “In each batch, we find around 10 per cent cases of depression. These students seem low and don’t focus in class. They also fight and at times, they stop communicating altogether.” Dr Anju Kapoor, principal of Usha Pravin Gandhi College in Mumbai, echoes similar sentiments. She says, “Students who are depressed stop talking. There is also a marked difference in their grades. These are all markers of a person who needs some sort of  .”
 Most professors feel that students found to be depressed are those who come from outside Mumbai. Banerjee, however, adds, “While it’s true that kids from out of town are more prone to depression, they at least come out and talk to their professors when they are low. Kids from Mumbai don’t do that. They don’t open up about their problems with professors or peers.” 
 Communication, they believe, is key in dealing with students going through depression — either by the faculty who keep them motivated or getting batch mates to involve them in their activities.
 
 
 Krishnaveni Kannan, a psychologist from an educational institute, believes college students are not as forthcoming as school students. “There is stark drop in the number of students referred from junior college level compared to that of school level. This is because adolescents have inhibitions to talk about turmoil owing to their confused state of mind. Besides, when it comes to the emotional state of students, it’s not looked into beforehand. Teachers and parents often refer them to the counselling cell only when there is a decline in their academic performances. Awareness among parents and teachers is a must as it will help identify emotional disturbance among students.”
 
 
 
 “I think this live stream was more a cry for help than attention. No one knows why he committed suicide and what led to it. Just saying that he used to have drugs doesn’t say it all. He clearly didn’t have anyone to speak to. People do such things silently; the idea is to reach out to them and speak openly about it. Being a Psychology student, I have definitely reached out to some such students.” 
 — 
 
 
 
 “We were shocked when we heard about this suicide. It really is an unfortunate incident. We have counsellors who come to our institution once in a while to discuss mental health issues with students. We don’t really discuss suicide as a subject amongst our friend circle, but we are aware that some misguided students take this drastic step. We’re also there for each other whenever we're going through a low phase.” 
 — 
 
 
 “College students these days overthink and that leads to stress. Instead of counsellors focusing on how much our parents and teachers do for us, they should conduct workshops that teach students fun ways to tackle studies, practical ways to deal with life situations, so that it takes care of the actual stress in our lives. When a child is suicidal, it means things have already worsened. College and school authorities, parents and friends should help kids not reach that stage.”
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Principal   of the   school affirms this. “Parents need to monitor their kids regularly. They often give in to their whims and fancies, which can cause more harm than good. So, values start at home and must be reinforced in schools and colleges. With this incident, institutions too, need to step up and be more watchful. Communication is key.”
 
 Asks Dr Shetty, “Do all our higher educational institutions like engineering and medical colleges really have full-fledged counselling centres? Depression is invisible as the awareness for it is still so poor. Lots of institutions still do not provide mental health care. They should, so should offices and other organisations. It’s time to spend on human capital than just meting profit margins. Also, social networking sites must immediately remove videos and messages such as these as it can act as a trigger for those who are already vulnerable. Parents and family must also be extremely alert for withdrawal, isolation and the first hint towards wanting to commit suicide.”
 
 
  
  
 Says Dr Sonar, “If you know someone who is going through depression or a tough phase, just listen to them rather than passing moral judgement. Also, for those who are feeling lonely and sad, take a step to reach out to friends and family.” 
 
 
