Plus-sized women have always had a hate-hate relationship with fashion. Their rationale: We are not interested in fashion because the fashion industry is not interested in us. After all, the fashion industry has always worshipped at the altar of the tall, thin femme.
 
 But   don’t restrict their talons to the plus-sized only. Anyone too thin, too tall, too short... basically non-regulation size, is good meat to dig into. The good news? Thanks to social media, bodyshamers are not getting away scot-free. Case in point: When Lady Gaga was called chubby after her Superbowl performance, she took on her trolls on her Instagram account.
 
 
 
 She said: “I heard my body is a topic of conversation so I wanted to say, I’m proud of my body and you should be proud of yours too... Be you, and be relentlessly you. That’s the stuff of champions.” Many celebrities — Indians too — have taken up the bodyshaming banner. Model Chrissy Teigen showed off her post-pregnancy stretchies (stretchmarks) on her social media accounts. Sonam Kapoor wrote a powerful piece on busting the myth of female celebrity flawlessness. And recently, Kareena Kapoor Khan shut the bodyshamers up declaring, “I am out and I am flaunting my size, whether people still feel I am overweight or not.” This is the era of body positivity. A reason why hashtags like #notasizeist or #loveyourself are gaining traction. Fashion blogger Gia Kashyap has been battling this brigade for quite some time. “As most bloggers internationally were tall and skinny, I was told to be a clone of them or I wouldn’t succeed.” Seven years hence, Kashyap’s blog is one of the most body positive space on the net. Her advice: “Accept yourself. The last thing I would want to do is become a slave to society’s perception of beauty.”
 
  
  
 
 [FIGHTING FIT:   has fought bodyshamers all her life. She decided to follow the “you do you” rule, a message she wants to spre
 SINGER ZINGER: Lady Gaga took on trolls for calling her chubby. She said,“I’m proud of my body and you should be proud of yours too.”]
 
 
 
 Fashion can be stressful with its many rules. Stout women shouldn’t wear horizontal stripes. Don’t wear a top that shows your visible belly outline (VBO). Patterns bring attention to the body. Thick legs? Don’t wear ankle straps. If you’ve ever been told that you don’t have the arms, legs, neck, torso, height or weight to pull off something, it’s time to stop listening. Kashyap says, “Wear what you want with confidence.” A ‘woman’ isn’t a ‘one-size-fits-all’ module. Fashion has to learn it.
 
  
  
 
 [WRITE RIGHT: Style blogger Gia Kashyap was told she wouldn’t make it in this field. She has been blogging for 7 years now 
 ROLE MODELS: Winnie Harlow (left) and plus-sized model Ashley Graham are changing the traditional notions of ‘model’ beauty in their own way
 PLUS POINTS: Mindy Kaling has had to justify her success in TV, because she is obviously not ‘convetnionally’ pretty]
 
 
 
 Five ways to get some confidence surge 
 
 
 
 Embrace your best features. If you highlight your favourite part, you are bound to feel instantly stylish.
 
 
 
 If you are uncertain about an outfit, odds are you won’t feel 100% confident about your look once you’re out and about.
 
 
 
 Experiment with different colours to find out which hues work best with your complexion.
 
 
 
 The easiest way to feel sure about an outfit is to cultivate a signature look. Having a go-to look saves time too.
 
 
 
 Give yourself extra time to plan an outfit or a new hairstyle.
 
 
