AGRA: A young woman who mortgaged her seven-year-old son to pay for her husband’s funeral and then travelled the length of the country in her bid to earn money to buy her child back now has a shot at returning home to Nagaland and finding her son again.

 Rita, in her late 20s, was working a labourer at a tea estate near Dimapur in Nagaland, earning Rs 40 per day, in October 2016, when her husband Mukesh, also a labourer, died of fever and other  . She did not have the money to pay for his funeral, and had to mortgage her son Sonu to a local   for Rs 2,000.
 
 After trying for several months to gather money from various sources to pay back the loan, Rita was told by her brother-inlaw, a man identified as Pappu, that he could help her find a job in Agra. However, on reaching the city five days ago, Pappu abandoned her. Rita was then left with her two other children, Nandini, 3, and Arun, one and a half years old, on the streets to fend for herself. On Saturday, a social activist found her near Shah Market. It was then that he found out how she had survived the past week — living on food from rubbish heaps and getting assaulted by a local shopkeeper for stealing a bottle of water.
 
 “She told us she tried to approach the police for help, but was rebuffed,” said  , the activist. Police here have denied the charge. Meanwhile, Paras and a few other social workers contacted police in Nagaland, who asked them to send the woman back home and that they would take over the case and try to locate the son. Local traders conducted a donation drive and gathered Rs 3,000 and some provisions for the woman for her immediate expenses.
 
 “The woman, along with her children, boarded the Brahmaputra Mail at 3am on Sunday. RPF and GRP personnel will escort them on the journey to Dimapur,” Paras said. Police in Dimapur have begun the process of tracing the boy.
 
 “Once the woman tells us further details about... the moneylender, we will find her son,” Dimapur assistant commissioner of police Akum Lam said.
 
