LUCKNOW: The official vehicle of Mahila Samman Prakoshth lifted from its Mahanagar office on Monday was recovered from   in Barabanki district on Wednesday.

 The vehicle was found by a ‘Dial 100’ vehicle 55 hours after its theft.
 
 Head constable Ravindranath Verma spotted the abandoned police jeep bearing number UP 32 BG 0790 around 10.30am in Haidergarh, 52km away from Lucknow. 
 
 Circle officer Mahanagar Vishal Vikram Singh said it seemed that a drug addict had stolen the vehicle. On gaining consciousness, he must have realised that it was an official vehicle and then abandoned it and fled, he added. 
 
 “Investigation is under way and we will nab the miscreant soon,” he said.
 
 Inspector Mahanagar RN Rai said the vehicle had no wireless set or any other accessory attached and nothing was missing.
 
 This was the second case of an official vehicle going missing from Lucknow in less than a month. In the past year, seven official vehicles have been lifted from the city.
 
 On April 19, a drug addict BSc graduate called Sharad Tewari had stolen the official vehicle of the Ghazipur inspector. The vehicle was recovered 23 km away. 
 
 The lack of fear of the police among auto lifters was also exposed when the official vehicle of SP Hardoi Rajiv Mehrotra was lifted on the intervening night of November 4 and 5. The vehicle was parked in a residential complex. The miscreants had stolen it with the help of a master key. The dismantled vehicle was recovered in parts from Nepal.
 
 Sources in the police department revealed that their vehicles are not installed with a GPS and proper locking systems which cause theft.
 
 According to a dossier of Lucknow police, from January 1 to April 30, 1,080 vehicles have been lifted. That comes to nine vehicles being lifted in a single day. Police officials told TOI that 400 of these vehicles are SUVs. Miscreants use a ‘master key’ to break into these vehicles. Moreover, 250 of these vehicles are jeeps, whose security can easily be compromised.
 
