LUCKNOW: All eyes are on   national president   ahead of the party’s proposed two day-national meet. Former president of the party  , as chairman of the   Trust, has called a meeting of all members on September 21, while his son   has called the state convention of the Samajwadi Party on September 23 and the national convention, in Agra, on October 5.

 To avoid another showdown between father and son, both camps are hoping the forces will unite, since the infighting made them pay a heavy price in the elections.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav faces the dilemma whether to embrace his estranged father, who is founder of the Samajwadi Party and also his mentor and save the party as also India’s most powerful family, or march ahead alone and get re-elected as national president of the party.
 
 The father and son spoke to each other on phone on Saturday, though nothing concrete came out in the direction of their issues being resolved, a family associate told TOI.
 
 To mount pressure on Akhilesh, Mulayam has convened a meeting of members of the Lohia Trust on September 21 and another meeting on September 25. The Mulayam camp is threatening that if there is no patch-up by September 25, Mulayam and his younger brother Shivpal, along with a handful of supporters, may form another party or morcha.
 
 Akhilesh doesn’t want to break the party, or the Yadav family but he is also strongly against carrying Mulayam’s ‘baggage’ which comprises the likes of Rajya Sabha member  , seen by him as the ‘schemer’ of the Mulayam camp.
 
 “Despite being embarrassed and criticised by Mulayam several times in the five years of his term as chief minister, Akhilesh never retaliated, or said anything inappropriate against his father as he has no issues against the man who gifted him Uttar Pradesh on a platter,” said an MLA close to Akhilesh, adding that the latter only has strong reservations about the non-playing actors in the Mulayam camp influencing the patriarch.
 
 The Akhilesh camp is confident Mulayam would never ask Akhilesh to give up the party national president post but what he would insist on is reinstating supporters of Amar Singh. On the other hand, Akhilesh has established in the last one year that majority of the party’s rank and file, important members and legislators are with him. 
 
 Ideological issues have been cropping up between father and son with Mulayam denouncing tie-up with the Congress while Akhilesh chose it for alliance. Akhilesh recently even backed the dynasty remarks Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi made in his address in the University of Berkeley, US. “Was Mulayam not on board and with the Congress when SP supported the Narsimha Rao government or the UPA government for 10 years,” remarked another SP functionary of the Akhilesh camp.
 
 Akhilesh is in favour of a grand alliance against the BJP and is determined to fight against the saffron party and instead of sending a representative to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD rally in Patna, he attended it and took on the BJP at the event. On the other hand, Mulayam has shown no intent to form a grand alliance, while his hobnobbing with Prime Minister,   irks Akhilesh.
 
 
