CHANDIGARH: BJP president   on Saturday joined the ongoing dispute over   (SYL) canal, asking the two states — Haryana and Punjab — to resolve the controversy ‘by the book’.

 A controversy had erupted last year after a constitution bench of the   had ruled that Punjab could not and should not have taken a ‘unilateral’ decision to terminate the agreement with Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Chandigarh to share the Ravi-Beas waters. Ignoring the SC ruling, the then Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government in 2016 went on to bring an SYL de-notification bill as several party workers levelled up the parts of 214-km long incomplete.
 
 While the Punjab governor V P Badnore had withheld the assent to the bill, the SC too had stayed the filling up of the canal by the the SAD government. Shah’s comments now assume significance as only last week the BJP-led government in Haryana had rejected Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s offer for an out-of-court settlement during a meeting of northern states chaired by Union home minister Rajnath Singh.
 
 “Mujhe lagta hai sabhi log vidhyatmak roop se sochkar iska samadhan karenge ( I believe that the two states will academically resolve the dispute),” said Shah, while addressing press in Chandigarh.
 
 He also disclosed that the home minister is mediating between the two sides. “The home minister had called for a meeting of the two state governments and in fact all sides involved in the dispute. He is still mediating,” said Shah.
 
 Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana had kicked a storm after it issued a public statement through its agriculture minister O P Dhankar, refusing to budge from its original stand that all previous agreements arrived at in the past must be honoured.
 
 Haryana and Rajasthan hope to get 3.5 million acre feet (MAF) and 8.6 MAF water respectively from Punjab if the SYL canal is constructed.
 
 At the meeting headed by Rajnath, Amarinder had reiterated his demand for reassessment and redetermination of the availability of surface water in Ravi, Beas and Sutlej rivers. Pointing out that Punjab was suffering an ecological crisis because of depletion of groundwater, he urged the central government to take expert advice on how to make reliable estimates of future flows in these rivers.
 
 
