If   tion's expenditure on develop ing new parks in 2016-2017 is anything to go by, the city would have double the number of clean and green spaces. Data from the civic body shows the budget for setting up new parks in the last financial year was increased by 53.16% to Rs 20,25,60,678 as compared to the previous year. In the same period the work carried out to maintain existing parks declined.

 On the ground, except for the spots of green on arterial roads, other smaller parks wear a neglected look, raising doubts whether the corporations plan to have new recreational spaces is working, if not maintained. The expenditure on maintenance decreased by nearly 8% to Rs 8,25,83,076 compared to the previous year as the number of parks maintained declined from 275 in the previous year to 182 in 2016-2017.
 
 “The focus of the corporation is to convert open space reservation areas into parks and they are maintained well,“ said a senior official from the works department, attributing the high maintenance expenditure in 2015-2016 to the devastation of the 2015 floods.
 
 While parks like those at Natesan, Panagal, Nandanam and   are well-maintained and bustling with activity, the neglected smaller parks, tucked away in residential areas, make up most of the 525 parks in the city .
 
 “In areas like MRC Nagar and Indira Nagar parks have become the den of anti-socials,“ said Dr T D Babu, a resident. Some like the   still bears the signs of damage during the December 2015 floods and Vardah. “The swings are unsafe, any child on the slides can get injured by the corroded edges of the metal,“ said C Namahchivayam, a visitor. Residents in areas like Besant Nagar, Adyar and Guindy complain of parks overgrown with weeds. “ After repeated requests, the authorities assigned one worker for the park in my area,“ said activist  , adding that residents want the civic body to ensure upkeep of existing parks instead of setting up newer ones.
 
 On the allegations of poor maintenance, the commissioner of corpora tion, D Karthikeyan, said: “We are not only setting up new parks, but making sure parks are maintained well. There were allegations of non-maintenance a few years ago but that was at the zonal level,“ he said, adding at the regional level, assistant engineers have been taking care of the problems. “For any specific cases are there, they can be brought to our notice and action will be taken,“ he added.
 
 At many parks, the corporation has outsourced maintenance work to private agencies that are responsible for cleanliness, watering of plants and upkeep of concrete structures but sources say non-payment to contractors was a major reason for their poor state.
 
 “Several months of dues are pending, how would the contractors be expected to work,“ asked a source.
 
 When residents question why basic facilities are not provided zonal level officials blame fund crunch, but corporation figures and senior officials have another story to tell. “There is no shortage of funds. The parks that need upkeep are brought to our notice during field visits are noted and worked on,“ said the official from the works department.
 
 Raising concerns about where the money is being used, activists urge residents to take on a more active role.
 
 “More funds are sanctioned when the work involves concrete and equipment. But ones who make use of parks know they are not maintained properly. People should be more involved so that they can question the corporation,“ said an environmentalist.
 
