MUMBAI: At least 50% of   and specialists cancelled their   across   and clinics in the city, while surgeries saw a marginal dip on the first day of the strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). It is unclear if the strike in the private sector, a spill over of resident doctors' agitation at public medical colleges, will continue on Friday.

 Members of the fraternity estimated that a minimum of 2.5lakh consultations were hit on Thursday . At Jaslok Hospital, Peddar Road, only 50% OPDs were functional in the evening. OPDs at LH Hiranandani, Lilavati, PD Hinduja, Saifee and Prince Aly Khan hospitals, and scores of standalone clinics run by general physicians, also saw patchy crowds as doctors did not turn up.
 
 Doctors at Joy Hospital in Chembur, Shanti nursing Home in Bandra, Belle Vue Nursing Home, Andheri, Riddhi Maternity and Nursing home, Borivli, and many others told TOI that they are on strike and the OPD are shut. Doctors would attend only emergencies.
 
 CEO of Jaslok Hospital Dr Tarang Gianchandani said, “The morning OPDs have a turnout of around 80% doctors, but evening OPDs were only attended by around 50% doctors. No surgeries were cancelled as that could compromise a patient's health.“
 
 Head of cardiology at KEM Dr Prafulla Kerkar, who also consults with the Asian Heart Institute, said he cancelled his consultations to stand in solidarity with the resident doctors. Neurologist Dr Nitin Dange, who consults with Lilavati, said his routine appointments were cancelled. “It's a critical cause that requires immediate attention. Doctors can't be soft targets where there is lacunae within the health system,“ he said.
 
 Urologist Dr J Lalmalani said surgeries in several major private and corporate hospitals were rescheduled.“Mumbai has 28,000 to 30,000 doctors, of which at least 50% did not report to work on Thursday . The situation will get grimmer on Friday as most patients have been informed of the development,“ he said, adding that he cancelled a couple of elective surgeries.A member of the Association of Medical Consultants (AMC), Lalmalani lamented that none of the political parties has openly come out in support of doctors.
 
 
 
 
 In an acid test of governance, the Fadnavis regime has finally managed to persuade the striking doctors to return to work. But the state should have acted sooner. The government's tough talk on the doctors' strike and the Bombay high court's criticism had proved counter-productive: the medical fraternity dug in its heels and sought more than just assurances that they will be provided greater security in state-run facilities. In a show of solidarity, a section of doctors in the private sector also struck work, bringing the impact of the stir to bear on patients across all sections of society.Caught in the crossfire between the two sides was a large section of society which relies on government hospitals for subsidized and effective healthcare. Had the administration reached out to doctors and allayed their concerns earlier, the strike wouldn't have taken a heavy toll on patients.
 
 
 
 
