NEW DELHI/PUDUCHERRY: The controversy over nomination of three MLAs in the Union territory of   snowballed on Thursday with the Congress party attacking the decision as ‘unconstitutional’ while Lt governor   defending it strongly stating that she is ‘an agent of law’ and is working as per the law.

 Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha   said in New Delhi that Bedi has been at loggerheads with chief minister V   and the elected Congress government since she assumed charge.
 
 He said the appointment of three MLAs – Puducherry BJP president V Saminathan, party treasurer K G Shankar and BJP loyalist S Selva Ganapathy -- has been done without consulting the chief minister.
 
 Even in Parliament the President nominates members on the basis of the recommendation by the central government, he said.
 
 Bedi took to Twitter to justify her action and cited provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 in this regard.
 
 “Here is the Law under which 3 MLAs were nominated by GOI (Government of India) and I as an LG (Lt. Governor) administered the Oath,” Bedi said in a tweet.
 
 One of the provisions cited by her said that three members can take oath before the lt governor or a person appointed by him/her for the purpose.
 
 “Since when is application of Law a ‘murder of democracy? See the law. Central government has the power to nominate and lt governor has the power of oath giving,” Bedi added.
 
 “I am an agent of law, I am working according to that. Cabinet came to me asking why are you meeting people? Why solving civic problems? They said you are supposed to be a rubber stamp," she told reporters.
 
 However Narayanasamy accused the Union government of violating the constitution by nominating three BJP loyalists as members of the legislative assembly in the Union territory without the knowledge of the government. “The action is a clear cut violation of the Constitution by the Union government,” he told ANI.
 
 He said he will raise the issue with the President Pranab Mukherjee and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi.
 
 The Union government nominated the three as members of legislative assembly and Bedi administered the oath of office for them. Usually the speaker administers oath of office. Several parties, including DMK, have called for a shutdown on July 8.
 
