KOCHI: One month into operations,   (T3) has shown promise registering a 7% increase in revenues from  . 

  The new duty-free facility, which is more than twice the size of the one which existed in Cial's terminal (T1) also recorded a 41% increase in footfall from April 18-May 18. Currently, the duty-free store, which is centrally-located at Cial, is a walk-through facility. Passengers exiting and entering the terminal have to pass through the store to reach the exit gates and the boarding gates, respectively.
 
 The store has the combined area of 33,000 sq ft, with 25,000 sq ft allocated at arrival point and 8,000 sq ft at the departure point. The store in T1, had an area of 10, 000 sq ft and 4,000 sq ft at arrival and departure locations, respectively. 
 
 "Though we recorded daily sales worth over Rs 1 lakh, we expect it to increase during the peak season, which starts during June," said a Cial official.
 
 He said the Cial would provide a range of offers during the period to attract more customers, including discounts on gold jewellery. 
 
 As per its annual report, during the financial year 2015-16, Cial registered a 28.5% increase in revenues compared to the previous year, collecting Rs 212.49 crore from duty-free sales previous year. The revenues from duty-free sales accounted for 40.51% of Cial's total revenue during 2015 -16, which is accounted as part of its non-aeronautical revenue."In 2016-17, the increase in the international traffic in Cial was around seven percent, while the rise in international traffic in India was around five percent. It is almost at saturation point," said the official.
 
  The Cial management, which established a new subsidiary company named   and   (CDRSL) in March 2016 for more operational focus and for tapping growth opportunities like duty-free operations, is planning to boost non-aeronautical revenues of the airport.
 
 It is planning to increase the share of non-aeronautical revenues to 60% of the airport's revenue by 2023. Currently, it accounts for almost 50% of the airport's revenue.
 
 Cial will soon launch visitors facility at the arrival and departure locations, for visitors who accompany passengers. The facility will have shopping outlets and a full-fledged food court.
 
 In order to enhance the duty-free experience of passengers the Cial will launch a 24/7 online chat customer service on its website next week.
 
