CHENNAI: Members cutting across   pleaded with the government to save the 5,000-odd artifacts unearthed during an excavation at Keeladi near Madurai. The issue was raised by AIADMK MLA S   and former DMK school education minister   and deputy leader of opposition S Duraimurugan joined him to urge the government to take steps to save the artifacts. 

 In his reply, school education minister, in charge of museums, K A Sengottaiyan said in the wake of a demand for a   to house the artifacts, the district collector allocated 72 cents of land. A case was also filed in the Madras high court seeking to prevent the artifacts from being taken to Mysuru. The petitioner also sought a larger piece of land for the museum. Following this, the government allocated two acres for the museum and Rs 1 crore was allocated for construction of the museum, said the minister. 
 
 In 2013-14, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had carried out explorations in 293 sites along the Vaigai river valley in Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts. Keeladi in Sivaganga district was chosen for excavation. The 5,800 artifacts unearthed by the ASI in the second phase of the excavation at Keeladi pointed to an ancient civilisation that thrived on the banks of the Vaigai. 
 
 Thennarasu said the Keeladi findings, believed to belong to ancient period, were different from those excavated at   and Harappa. “In Keeladi, the findings show that the area was an urban habitat and not a burial place as seen in the   Civilization. In Keeladi, the ancient Brahmi script was seen in some of the artifacts,” said Thennarasu. 
 
 Carbon dating of charcoal found at the Keeladi site in February 2017 established that the settlement there belonged to 200 BC. The excavations indicated that urban civilisation had probably existed in   since the Sangam age. “The Centre has also transferred K Amarnath Ramakrishna of ASI, who led the excavation team, out of Tamil Nadu circle. The state must pressure the Centre to bring Amarnath back to Keeladi,” said Thennarasu. 
 
