When it comes to women’s issues, it is generally women who lead from the front. Men are seen as part of the problem, but today, close to 100 men — and bikers at that — will be the beacon and lead from the front to raise awareness about menstruation. Stressing that menstruation is not only a woman’s issue, but everyone’s issue, the theme of the   Campaign for 2017 on   is for men to take the lead. This is a bike rally that kicks off at 8 am today at  , in which mostly male bikers will ride 40 kilometres within the city to symbolize the 40 years that a woman menstruates for — all to shatter the stigma around menstruation. 

 
 
 Through her work on the field,  , one of the organizers, says that the major issue that women face when it comes to menstruation is not the availability or affordability of sanitary napkins, but not getting information at home or in school. “Menstruation is a physically-demanding phase, during which many women suffer excessive pain and mood swings. Since teachers are not sensitized, girls are forced to stand in line, do physical training and other sports activities, and perform well in class — all this while their bodies are crumbling. The family assumes that girls will learn about it in school, but school authorities feel shy to talk about it. So, girls have no one to turn to. They enter puberty unaware of their body changes and how to handle menstruation,” she says.
 
 
 
 This is why there is a need to break the silence. So, if in schools, male and female teachers feel that it’s not a taboo to discuss menstruation and openly take classes about the bodily changes for girls during puberty, girls will be open to speak to them. “When teachers do that, non-teaching staff will think about the infrastructure requirements for girls during periods — such as toilets with running water and dustbins that are covered. There could be one teacher who girls can approach for sanitary napkins and a counsellor who can be approached if girls have trouble with periods. The stigma will be broken only once these conversations start,” Urmila adds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Keerthi Sagar, spokesperson of the India Bull Riders and one of the riders who will be riding today, says menstruating women still face discrimination, which is why such a rally is the need for the hour. “We, as men, are aware of how this subject is considered taboo in our culture. We have seen this with our families and friends. Men of the new generation don’t think that there is anything wrong with talking about something so natural, but at the same time there are people who think that women shouldn’t go to a temple while menstruating, etc. India Bull Riders have always ridden against discrimination and we thought that we can initiate a conversation around menstruation and the need for men to take a leadership role,” he says.
 
 
 
 This is the first-of-its-kind drive, in which men will take leadership about women’s issues, and show that men care and can be a support mechanism. “It is a solution demonstration of a new kind of leadership that will address women’s issues. And this is important. For e.g., when it comes to rape, women activists have worked for decades by sensitizing girls to be safe and pushing policies and laws, but rapes haven’t stopped. This is because the leadership is only confined to women fighting for women. Men need to step in; they are great partners in this cause. We have been assuming that men are only problem, but they can be part of the solution,” says Urmila. 
 
 Mayor   and Police Commissioner   will flag off the rally. While the   will represent a woman encouraging men to partner in the movement, the top cop will be a representation of male leadership. 
 
