KOLKATA: A trip to Kashmir is all set to get convenient from this   as the city is going to have its first direct and daily   to the picturesque state in north India.

 IndiGo is going to start the service with a 180-seater airbus that is scheduled to leave Kolkata at 5.40am every day to reach Jammu at 8.55am. The flight will then travel further, till Srinagar, after a 20-minute halt at Jammu.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ajay S Jasra, the head of corporate communications for the airline, said they had been exploring the possibilities along some of the routes for quite some time before finalising the  .
 
 “We had found that there were several passengers from Bengal heading Kashmir in almost every season. While most of them head to  , many tourists opt for places like Pahalgam, Gulmarg and Sonmarg. Hence, we decided to start the service,” said Jasra, who was in the city on Tuesday.
 
 According to Jasra, the response so far has been overwhelming as more than 50% of the seats for the first journey is already booked (the booking opened on March 15). The flight will take off from Srinagar at 10.25am and fly non-stop to reach Kolkata at 1.25pm.
 
 As of now, travellers from Kolkata had to fly till Delhi before taking a connecting flight to Jammu. Apart from IndiGo, Air India and Go Air fly on the Kolkata-Delhi-Jammu route.
 
 Travel industry sources in Kolkata said about 60,000 tourists, many in large groups, visit Kashmir during the March-May and the Puja month.
 
 “It’s a great move . There are several elderly fliers every year who have a hard time reaching Kashmir. But this new direct is going to make the journey convenient,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman (east) of the Travel Agents Federation of India.
 
 Other airline operators said they welcomed the move but doubted its feasibility. “It’s a good initiative but Kashmir generally has a seasonal crowd. I wonder how many passengers they would carry during the monsoon and winter. More so, given the current situation in the state, I doubt if they would be able to continue with the service for long,” said a senior official of a private airline.
 
 Jasra, however, replied: “We never back out after starting a service..” 
 
 
