HYDERABAD: The magnificent structure of the   at   would have got an imposing central dome if the   VII,  , had not turned down the proposal.

 The architects and engineers who designed the Arts College building had suggested a large dome at the centre in line with other ‘domed’ structures in Hyderabad reflecting the Qutub Shahi and Asaf Jahi architecture. When the design was presented to him, the Nizam instructed that the dome should be removed to give a more secular look to the building. The size of the dome was then reduced so that it is not visible from outside the building. The highly-reduced dome now serves as a ventilator-cum-aerator. 
 
 The original design is visible in the one Anna stamp issued by the Nizam government’s postal department on the silver jubilee of the coronation of Mir Osman Ali Khan in February 1937. “The one Anna stamp was issued in 1937 showing the proposed Arts College Building with a huge dome on Osmania University campus. The stamp was issued to commemorate the silver jubilee of Mir Osman Ali Khan,” said research scholar and numismatist Dr Mohammad Safiullah. “The design was modified on the specific instructions of the Nizam. The dome was omitted to give the building a secular look,” he added.
 
 The change in the design heralded the beginning of the modern style of architecture in India. A study of the literature on the Nizam and newspaper archives reveals that the Nizam did not want to make Osmania University an institution that imparts religious studies. Urdu was made the medium of instruction only with a view to weaning away students from the influence of English (read the British). During the 1930s, less than 2% of the students enrolled had opted for religious studies. About 85% of the students studied sciences and arts while 13% of students preferred engineering, medicine, education and legal studies. The trend continues even today.
 
 While issuing the firman (royal decree) on April 26, 1917 giving approval for the establishment of Osmania University, the Nizam said that it should offer education that is a harmonious blend of the knowledge and culture of ancient and modern times to remove defects created by the present education system.
 
 
