NAGPUR: Within days of ending two-and-half-decades old alliance, the BJP and the Shiv Sena are at each other’s throat. Both parties on Monday tried to wash their dirty linen at separate press conferences. In Mumbai, the Sena alleged a massive scam and irregularities in BJP-ruled  . Responding to it, BJP here dismissed all allegations as ridiculous and called it Sena’s attempt to divert attention from its own misdeeds in Mumbai civic body during two decades of rule.

 “We are happy the Sena has at last acknowledged Nagpur’s status as state’s second capital and lavished some attention on it. If only they had relied on factual data and produced one document in support, we would have forwarded it to municipal commissioner and sought a transparent probe,” quipped mayor Pravin Datke.
 
 Several MLAs and MLCs of BJP and city President Sudhakar Kohale were present at the hurriedly held press conference here. BJP leaders said the Sena took up Nagpur matter (sitting in Mumbai) just to target city’s two top BJP leaders — chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.
 
 Losing no time after Uddhav Thackeray severed ties with BJP, the diatribe through ‘Saamna’ became more shrill with daily editorials slamming the friend-turned-foe. On Monday, Sena unleashed MLC Anil Parab in Mumbai to take potshots at BJP and its affairs in  . Referring to Parab’s charge that there was massive scam in Rs4500 crore cement roads work in Nagpur, Datke said the combined value of the two cement roads projects till now was less than Rs450 crore and another tender of around Rs300 crore would be opened on Feb 1.
 
 On the allegations that civic contracts in Nagpur were given to close relatives of BJP leaders, the mayor said no objection was ever raised by the Sena members in the standing committee in the last ten years or by Kishore Kumeriya of the Sena who was deputy mayor for a term. On allegations of favouritism in 24X7 water supply scheme through privatization by OCW company, Datke and Kohale said the scheme was cleared seven years ago and all these years the Sena found nothing wrong in it. Also the charge that OCW levied high tariff of Rs20 a unit was grossly exaggerated, said the mayor.
 
 “None of allegations made by the Sena has any basis. The party that never tires of its feigned righteousness should at least have checked the facts before making wild allegations. We can understand their frustration. The Sena is worried over losing relevance in Mumbai and would soon be out of power in BMC. So it is now trying to tarnish BJP’s image and good work done by us in Nagpur,” said BJP MLC Anil Sole who is in-charge of party campaign in NMC polls.
 
 In stark contrast,   leaders Ashish Shelar and Kirit Somaiyya have been raising issues of corruption in BMC for last three years and in official inquiries BMC officials have been found guilty and punished, said Datke.
 
