NEW DELHI: Days after it shocked its sitting councillors in Delhi’s three municipal corporations by denying them a chance to stand again in the polls in April,   announced on Thursday that it would give 26 of them special responsibilities in the party.

 “The corporations are projected as corrupt bodies, but not all councillors are corrupt,” said BJP Delhi chief Manoj Tiwari. “There are a few hardworking councillors who have a   image. We have identified 26 of them and given them important roles to play in the party.”
 
 Clearly aimed at assuaging the feelings of the disgruntled councillors, the party assignment, Tiwari said, would give the ‘Special 26’ “bigger gains” against the “short- term loss” of having to stand down from the elections. Sources said Tiwari met these councillors in groups and assured them of significant party roles. “These councillors will also be considered for assembly poll tickets in 2020,” confided a BJP leader.
 
 While the 26 were not named by Tiwari, party insiders said they include BB Tyagi (former leader of the house, east corporation), Mahender Ahuja and Rajkumar Dhillion (former deputy mayors, east), Shailender Singh Monty (chairman, standing committee, south), Parvesh Wahi (chairman, standing committee, north), Rekha Gupta (former Delhi BJP general secretary) and Virendra Babbar.
 
 BJP’s decision to field fresh faces in all municipal wards will end the political careers of several councillors. “Five years later, we will not have a place of prominence in the party because the new lot will have taken over our positions,” grumbled a two-time councillor. “We don’t want to lose out on the hard work we have put into our wards.”
 
 Not many of the councillors are assured by the party’s promise of considering them for the assembly polls in 2020. “When we have no idea of what will happen tomorrow, 2020 is really far away. We can’t risk our careers today,” said one of them.
 
 BJP decided that fielding newcomers would be the best ploy to fight anti-incumbency, especially when the party-led corporations had failed to achieve much in their decade in power. The move would, BJP members opined, nullify any attacks by rivals and help the party start “afresh”.
 
 
