MUMBAI: The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) and the Committee of Administrators (CoA) are working out a strategy to restructure contracts for all graded cricketers and determine who should earn how much.

 The bigger picture they have in mind is that of Cheteshwar  , India's Test specialist who did not participate in the recently concluded Indian Premier League (IPL) and is now away in the United Kingdom, ploughing the county circuit. Or for that matter  , the very successful offspinner who sat out of the   and is likely to follow that route in the future, given the amount of responsibility he shoulders with the national team. The board had been looking to find a connect between players and their salaries, primarily because there was no set benchmark. So, where could they begin? A specialist bowler gets to bowl four overs in an IPL game.
 
 If he plays 14 matches for his franchise, and if his services are fully utilised, the bowler will have bowled a maximum of 56 overs until the playoffs. Ashwin bowled 69.3 overs in just the first Test match between India and England in Rajkot, October last year. A batsman has a maximum of 10 to 12 overs per IPL game to peak within the stipulated 20 overs. Pujara took that many overs, including body blows, while trying to counter Chris Woakes on Day Three of the same Rajkot Test. For the record, he batted out 242 deliveries in that game, which is equivalent of two full innings in a T20 game.
 
 "That connect is what we're trying to find. It's not about hiking salaries but about restructuring contracts with a better perspective," BCCI CEO   told TOI.
 
 IPL is a money-spinner dictated by market forces. The intelligence of a franchise in cutting a fat cheque for, let's say a   or a  , cannot be argued even if in the bargain a Pujara or a KL Rahul misses out.
 
 "The idea is to differentiate between the red ball and the white ball," said Johri.
 
 "There is a different set of dynamics that makes for the IPL but at the same time, there's serious thought being given into ensuring that Test cricket remains the benchmark. If a cricketer has to aim for a Test cap, he's got to find more rewards coming his way when he makes it," he added.
 
 It is for this reason that the BCCI may have two options going forward: first, to try and divide Grade 'A' or a Grade 'B' of central contracts into two sub categories, the specifics of which could be tedious to determine.
 
 "Sub categories will have to worked out with the red-ball and white-ball brackets defined. But 26% of BCCI's income which is reserved for cricketers doesn't change. It is within that 26% that redistribution needs to be worked out," says Johri.
 
 The other way forward here could be to hike salaries in domestic cricket, minus the IPL. The logic here states: "Where do Test cricketers come from anyway? From the Ranji and Duleep Trophy. So, make that attractive".
 
 As for coach  , who draws a salary of Rs 6.5 crore per annum, the CoA could find it prudent to hike the former leg-spinner's package by close to 20% ((to Rs 7.5 cr), especially given the success India earned in the long home season gone by. The idea is to keep the national coach's job attractive.
 
 Also, the BCCI has no immediate plans to further hike salaries of the support staff. All support staff contracts will be for 10 months to allow them to be involved in the IPL.
 
