In September 2016, rumours were rife that 
  was the leading lady of Nikkhil Advani's next production, 'Lucknow Central', which marks the directorial debut of   Tiwari, with 
  in the lead.

  The film is inspired by a true story of convicts sentenced to life imprisonment in the Lucknow Central Jail, who start a band and discover pride, self confidence and a reason to wake up every morning. But within a month,   was on board to play the NGO worker who puts the prisoners on the path of reform.
 
  Diana, who made her   debut in Homi Adajania's 'Cocktail', shrugs off queries about how she came to replace Kriti saying it's insignificant. "It all happened within three days of my meeting with Nikkhil and him briefly telling me about the film. His brief immediately piqued my interest and I agreed to meet Ranjit the next day for a complete narration.
 
  Once I heard it, I knew this was a story I wanted to be part of, We did a reading the day after and before I knew it, I had landed the role and was shooting for the look test," recalls the actress, who will be seen in salwar-kameez, long skirts and cotton trousers.
 
 During the look test, she met Farhan for the first time and admits they didn't interact much during that meeting. But the second time, the whole cast came together for a reading and it was easier. “I have always respected him as an actor, director, writer. musician and producer, I have so much to learn from him. He's one of the reasons I said yes to the project,“ she acknowledges. Apart from Farhan, the film also features   and Gippy Garewal.
 
  
  
 While Ranjit was keen to shoot inside the real Lucknow Central Jail, they did not get permission. Also, after Sanjay Leela Bhansali was roughed up by a fringe group while shooting in Jaipur's Jaigarh Fort for his upcoming period romance, Padmavati, the makers felt it was more prudent to shoot in a studio."So far, we've only shot in Mumbai's Film City. Our art directors, Amit Ray and Subrata Chakraborty, have made an amazingly realistic set of the actual jail. The only complaint has been the unusual heat," she signs off with a smile. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
