CHENNAI: The   of AIADMK (Amma) faction and its star candidate   in R K Nagar assembly byelection works like a well-oiled machine. 

 Drum beats and fireworks welcomed Dhinakaran when he started his campaign on Thandavarayan Street a week ago. Commercial taxes minister K C Veeramani was beside him. A few kilometres into the campaign, the Vellore minister got down from the vehicle, making way for municipal administration minister S P Velumani. Meandering along the bylanes of Vinayakapuram an hour later, electricity minister P Thangamani took over and finally finance minister D Jayakumar assumed charge on Ennore Expressway. Jurisdiction of each manager is well defined in Dhinakaran's campaign.
 
 It is this micro-management of electioneering - under the leadership of seven heads including five ministers and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami - that helped the party in smooth management of the campaign.
 
 The management of each team as laid out by the poll managers - a copy of which is available with TOI - shows they cover about 34,000 to 44,000 voters each. Apart from the CM, ministers K A Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C Sreenivasan, P Thangamani, S P Velumani and D Jayakumar and Rajya Sabha MP R Vaithilingam are the other core team leaders. Under each one of them, there are a host of ministers and MLAs to carry out the task of electioneering.
 
 Lower down the order, each party functionary is assigned the task of covering 25 voters. It is the job of these functionaries to communicate with voters. "Based on demands from the electorate, a couple of water tanks were installed for drinking water supply in Harinarayanapuram," said a party source, seeking anonymity. Health minister C Vijayabaskar, apart from the overall coordination of the campaign, also monitored canvassing of 8,148 voters. He handpicked his trusted lieutenants from Pudukottai district to assist him.
 
 The nomination of party veteran and local strongman E Madhusudhanan led to the Dhinakaran camp losing local functionaries to the rival OPS camp. They made distress calls to party functionaries to get back to the Sasikala camp. It went viral on social media in the initial days of the campaign. Inducement of voters began with distribution of saris and later utensils and other household items in certain pockets. 
 
