MUMBAI: Patients at the civic-run   in Govandi had a harrowing time on Friday and Saturday as a short-circuit resulted in a more than 15-hour-long power outage.

 Officials said that rainwater had seeped into electrical panels and fuse boxes of the hospital and that made quick repairs a difficult task.
 
 “Operations and some out-patient clinics were cancelled,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity. The family of a male patient admitted to the intensive care unit said he was breathless and nauseous as the air-conditioning system was not working. “We had to bring him to the corridor to get some fresh air as he began vomiting inside,” said a relative, who didn’t want to reveal the patient’s name.
 
 A young patient admitted in the general ward of the hospital said that lights and fans went off around 7pm on Friday. “We were completely in the dark. I was scared and got restless. Thankfully, the weather was pleasant as it was raining but I couldn’t sleep because of the mosquitoes,” said the teenager. 
 
 A patient in the maternity ward said, “There was power in one area of the ward. There was no electricity in my side of the ward but I was too weak to get up and change my bed,” she said.
 
 Shatabdi Hospital is one of the 16 hospitals in the BMC’s secondary network of hospitals spread across the suburbs. BMC also operates five specialty and three super-specialty hospitals (KEM, Sion and  ). “Most of BMC’s suburban hospitals are in a pathetic condition. In Shatabdi Hospital too, buckets are kept in the operation theatre to collect water from the leaking roof,” said a senior doctor.
 
 A Class IV worker told TOI that power problems were common at the hospital as the generator was faulty. “All the morning operations were cancelled because we couldn’t switch on the motor,” he said. Repair work was on at the hospital when TOI visited on Saturday morning. 
 
 The hospital’s chief medical officer, Dr  , said power was restored in some parts of the hospital. “By Saturday afternoon, it was completely restored,” she said, adding, “The point to note is that my doctors and staff managed to transfer patients to areas with electricity. Admissions as well as medical care continued throughout the period.” 
 
 Dr Pradeep Jadhav, chief medical superintendent of BMC’s suburb hospitals, he said, “It’s been raining heavily for many days now, and it’s common for rainwater to seep into electric panels. We have appointed a few engineers and the problem was fixed.” When asked why more generators were not used, he said, “We cannot switch on heavy machinery during a short-circuit and in rainy season, even train services halt.”
 
 Incidentally, Shatabdi Hospital is scheduled for an upgrade. “We started repairs in the existing building last year. The tendering process for the new building is likely soon. We are planning a 840-bed hospital complex with a medical college,’’ said Dr Rajashree Jadhav.
 
 
