KOLKATA: An octogenarian woman was pushed to the ground and her gold chain snatched in front of her house at BA block in   on Thursday. The incident, which comes almost six months after a theft attempt at the block, pointed again at the vulnerability of the Salt Lake blocks owing to their porous nature. The incident has triggered panic among the residents of one of most posh locales of the city. 

 Gita Roy had gone to the nearby CA block market in the morning. “It is my usual routine since my husband has not been keeping well for long. I leave home around 9am and take a brisk walk to the market. But what happened today was something I never expected,” said the 81-year-old victim, trembling in fear.
 
 While coming back, around 9.45am, she entered the lane leading to her house. “I did not notice anything unusual till then. As I was approaching the gate, someone tapped on my shoulder,” she recounted. Roy initially took the person to be a neighbour and turned to greet him. Little did she know that she was being followed by a snatcher. As she turned sideways, he pulled at the gold chain she was wearing. By the time she realized what has happened and tried to shout, she was roughly pushed to the ground by a man in a yellow T-shirt. 
 
 Roy suffered injuries on her arms and waist.
 
 “I fell on the ground and for a moment, was bewildered. But then I shouted to the neighbours to catch the thief,” she recounted. Her 93-year-old bed-ridden husband had been admitted to a nursing home just weeks ago.
 
 The childless couple has been staying in Salt Lake for more than 40 years, but never did they face such an incident. By the time the locals came out, they found the elderly woman lying on the road. “I asked them to catch the thief but they were more concerned with helping me up and taking me home,” she narrated. 
 
 “We were not home when the incident happened. when we came back, we saw a police jeep parked in front of Gita kakima’s house. Such things are scary, especially during the day. The way these blocks are designed, there are a lot of escape routes,” felt  , a resident of BA block. 
 
 The scare is running high among the residents as they need to go to market in the evening too. 
 
 Suvendu Kundu, past president of the residents’ association, rushed to the spot after he was informed. “There are households where elderly couples stay alone. By the time anybody can respond, it could be quite late,” he said. “We had arranged for nightguards earlier, but given the porous nature of the blocks, it is difficult to monitor the entire block,” he said.
 
 Rajesh Chirimar, councillor of Ward 2, said he has already requisitioned 32 cameras in the block. “It is difficult to monitor these blocks without proper CCTV surveillance. we are also planning a helpline especially for the elderly,” he said. 
 
