GURUGRAM: On Sunday morning, around 400 residents pedalled for a purpose — to keep “pedestrians and cyclists first”. Three bicycle rides were organised in the city to demand that infrastructural developments are aligned with amenities for, and safety of, pedestrians and cyclists. Gurgaon police, MCG, officials from Nasscom, research organisation WRI India and cycling infrastructure developer Cykul joined hands with biking groups like Delhi Elite Cyclists, Gurgaon Road Runners, Pedal Yatri and Gurgaon Girl Riders to spread the message of safety and security of pedestrians and cyclists on the road.

 The cyclists made full use of Gurgaon’s roads, which are choc-a-bloc with motor vehicles on weekdays. Starting from Sector 29, enthusiasts took part in three categories of rides — 55km, 18km and 4 km, for three hours. 
 
 In Gurgaon, around 191 pedestrians lost their lives while 10 were injured in road accidents in 2016. Faulty infrastructure, such as lack of   paths and fading zebra marks at crossings, are among major causes that put pedestrians in a vulnerable spot.
 
 “I’m even scared to step out on main roads. Today, though, was a pleasant experience. Beautiful weather and great exercise, first thing in the morning. The best part was, it was for a good cause,” said Sector 47 resident Navdeep Sharma.
 
 Many participants said that as city infrastructure gets better, more roads are being designed solely for cars, with less focus on the safety of pedestrians and cyclists. Ironically, at the same time, authorities want to discourage car usage and encourage cycling and walking as green modes of transport.
 
 “When we say “pedestrians and cyclists first”, we’re mainly talking about infrastructure. We’re demanding that when even a rupee is invested in transport infrastructure, safety and convenience of pedestrians and cyclists should be put first. Instead, while Gurgaon invests thousands of crores in road infrastructure — Golf Course Road, NH-8, Sohna road and so on — we sadly see a complete disregard for safety of pedestrians and cyclists. Let 2017 be the year when this changes forever,” said Manas Fuloria, CEO, Nagarro.
 
 
