NEW DELHI: The   has been witnessing an unusual presence of the Aedes   and the diseases transmitted by them even though the vectors are usually associated with rainy season. 

 March and   are considered dry months.
 
 Scientists said this crisis is man-made and caused primarily due to large-scale construction activity and poor upkeep of overhead tanks. “There is a need for introducing heavy fines for mosquito breeding in and around construction sites and overhead tanks,” said Dr Neena Valecha, director of   (NIMR).
 
 A pilot project carried out by NIMR in collaboration with south corporation in 277 localities in west zone from July 2012 to May 2014 found overhead and curing tanks were the key habitats of Aedes mosquitoes during the dry months (December to May).
 
 The incidence of mosquito-borne diseases can be reduced significantly with community participation. This involves putting proper lids on overhead tanks, regular emptying and cleaning of water containers, treatment of coolers and curing tanks with temephos and proper and safe disposal of solid waste, said NIMR scientists.
 
 “Only one   case was reported in the study area in which fortnightly surveillance and interventions were carried out between 2012 and 2013. In the control area, which followed conventional intervention, 38 dengue cases were reported in the corresponding period,” the NIMR study reveals. The results of the study have been published in a recent issue of PLOS One, a reputed medical journal.
 
 Both dengue and chikungunya viruses are spread by Aedes Aegypti mosquito that breeds in fresh water collected at construction sites or in the overhead tanks during dry season. In rainy season, stagnation of water can be seen in all empty containers and even potholes.
 
 The average lifespan of an Aedes mosquito is two weeks. Each mosquito can lay eggs about thrice in its lifetime. About 100 eggs are produced each time. Entomologists say eggs produced by an Aedes mosquito can lie dormant in dry conditions for up to nine months after which they can hatch if exposed to favourable conditions, which is water and food. “If the key habitats — overhead and curing tanks — are cleared of these eggs during dry season, the chances of outbreaks during wet months can be reduced significantly. But for this we need active support of the public. The authorities alone cannot tackle the crisis,” said Dr D K Seth, director, hospital administration of north corporation.
 
 Solid waste management is another area of concern. Due to lack of proper disposal system of solid waste in Delhi, it is indiscriminately dumped everywhere. This is a major threat for the increase in the population density of Aedes mosquitoes in urban and industrial towns.
 
 Responsibility of solid waste management remains primarily with the municipal bodies, so reduction in solid waste and its disposal is of utmost importance for reducing breeding of Aedes mosquitoes, said scientists.
 
