NEW YORK: Eleven Indian-American investors feature in   magazine's annual list of the 100 best venture capitalists who are behind some of the highest-returning investments in the technology sphere.

 ' ' comprises the 100 best venture capitalists in the world, taking into account a five-year look-back at a partner's portfolio, with exits by IPO or 
 acquisition of $200 million or more and private holdings that raised money at valuations of $400 million or more over that time period.
 
 The list has been topped by Jim Goetz, Partner in   Capital. He retains the top spot three years after the monumental sale of messaging giant WhatsApp to Facebook for nearly $22 billion.
 
 Goetz, the only investor in the company, transformed $60 million over three rounds into more than $3 billion in Facebook stock.
 
 The list includes 11 venture capitalists who are of Indian-origin.
 
 Neeraj Agrawal, General Partner in Battery Ventures is on the 17th spot and leads the pack of Indian-origin venture capitalists on the list, followed by Sameer Gandhi, Partner in Accel Partners (23); Asheem Chandna, Partner in Greylock Partners (28); Salil Deshpande, Managing Director in Bain Capital Ventures (33); and Aneel Bhusri, CEO and Cofounder of Workday (37).
 
  
  
 
 
 Gaurav Garg, Founding Partner of Wing   (48); Promod Haque, Senior Managing Partner of Norwest Venture Partners (67); Hemant Taneja, Managing Director of General Catalyst Partners (70); Navin Chaddha, Managing Director of Mayfield Fund (73); Ravi Mhatre, Partner in Lightspeed Venture Partners (76); and Deven Parekh, Managing Director of Insight Venture Partners (99) also figure on the list.
 
 Agrawal returns to the Midas List for the 7th consecutive time. Two of his software companies, Coupa and Nutanix, went public in 2016, and another, AppDynamics, was about to go public in early 2017 before it was scooped up by Cisco for $3.7 billion.
 
 Taneja, who holds five degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, debuts on the Midas List due to an early   in Snap, the social platform that went public at a market capitalization of $25 billion in February 2017.
 
 Haque, an alumnus of Delhi College of Engineering, has served as senior managing partner at Norwest Venture Partners since 2013, where he focuses on enterprise and healthcare IT. He has invested in more than 70 companies that have produced more than $40 billion in exit values in over 15 years of venture capital experience.
 
 Forbes said while micro-blogging site Twitter still accounts for 12 Midas investors and Facebook another 10, they're now making way for Snap, the social app that went public in February 2017, with eight of its investors in the 2017 Midas ranks.
 
