BENGALURU: There was no planned operation to nab the Pakistanis illegally residing in Kumaraswamy Layout. Not even intelligence on the matter. All that sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) were in pursuit of was a gang of  .

 Cops arrived in Kumaraswamy Layout after being tipped off that one of the vehicles stolen by the gang they were trying to catch, was in the area.
 
 The stolen vehicle was parked in front of a building, and police began questioning people in the neighbourhood and also residents of the property. This led them to the house where the Pakistani women lived.
 
 When cops knocked on the door, they found the two women. Questions on their backgrounds revealed several discrepancies.
 
 The women told the police to return when “there were men in the house“.
 
 Having sniffed something, police returned to the house later and began questioning them. And despite the couples producing several documents to prove their identities, the police remained suspicious.Relentless questioning eventually led to a confession and the women produced their Pakistani passports.
 
 FAKE PAPERS USED FOR AADHAAR?
 
 Having arrested them, cops are keen to find out how the illegal immigrants had managed to procure Aadhaar cards. Preliminary investigation points to Shihab, the Indian man arrested with the three Pakistanis, and police suspect that he helped create fake i documents which were used to apply for Aadhaar cards.
 
 Police commissioner Praveen Sood said the three of them could avail all benefits of being Indian citizens, as they had all the relevant documents. i An officer working with the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said that operators at the Aadhaar centre are not able to verify whether or not documents provided to them are genuine.However, he called the incident an isolated case.
 
 He said police will investigate what forged documents were used to help get Aadhaar cards. A CCB team has taken up this specific task.
 
 However, a senior officer said that there was information available that several immigrants, especially those from Bangladesh, have obtained Aadhaar cards.
 
