
 
  
 
  The board has expressed its full confidence in my leadership, as has been made clear in the press release. The shareholders elected me to the board, and the board sees no reason whatsoever for me to step down. Whatever decisions that have been taken are collectively taken by the board. I have been given a job to do and I intend doing it conscientiously.
  
  
 
  We don't have an issue with anyone. As you say, this is not a fight for corporate control. We are a professional board and we are committed to uphold the highest standards of governance that this company has always been known for. We recognise that there could be different viewpoints when it comes to a business judgment. We are sensitive to these viewpoints from different stakeholders and will always calibrate our actions, taking these into account.
  
  
 
  This is completely untrue. We have been continually engaged with the founders. I and the board members collectively have had several conversations with the founders, over the last one year. We had a meeting between the board members and the promoters as late as January 2017!
  
  Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas have been engaged, not because there is a dispute, but in order to receive inputs on governance processes and structures, including board composition, not only from the promoters, but also from other key stakeholders.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  If there are proposals for nominations to the board from different groups of shareholders, we need a process to select them, and ensure fair representation within the framework of law, while not compromising the character of an independent board. Cyril Amarchand will guide us in this process.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  First, we are talking about a decision that was taken in October 2015. The decision was to pay Rajiv Bansal a severance pay of Rs 17.38 crore. The circumstances were explained several times. This took into account complex circumstances and it was a bona fide business judgement.
  
  Second, the amount that has actually been paid is only Rs 5.2 crore! The balance payments have been suspended since April 2016 and the reasons for suspension have also been explained.
  
  Third, please see the press release dated October 21, 2016. It’s a suo moto disclosure comprehensively explaining the investigations done on the basis of an anonymous complaint that alleged that this could have perhaps been hush money, the findings by independent and reputed law firms after exhaustive investigation that there was no impropriety whatsoever, and the disclosures made thereon.
  
  The board has consulted legal and other experts and they have assured us that we have done all that we needed to do as a responsible and diligent board.
  
  We, of course, took on board, with respect, the view of the founders that the decision to pay was excessively generous. We have since done a survey of compensation practices in each geography and have taken steps to incorporate appropriate severance pay terms in the employment contracts of our KMPs (key management personnel), so that occasions like these where business judgments are taken individually do not arise in future. We, as the board, cannot figure out what more needs to be done.
  
  
 
  As the chairman, my biggest priority is to ensure that the management does not get distracted by all these noises and continues to focus on the many challenges and win the market battle while the board continues to do its job of governance to the highest standards. Infosys is in a unique situation in terms of the board managing the company and the business environment it is facing.
  
  
 
  In a construct where the owner or the promoter or the chief executive is the chairman, it’s easy to function, because the power centre is given. Right or wrong, everyone will obey the leader. There is no room for dissent beyond what the leader will permit. In our construct, there is a phenomenal effort required to build consensus within the board, between the board and the management. Given this complexity, you can see how successful we have been to have a cohesive board and an aligned management. And, what's more, we are judged by standards far higher than any other company.
  
  
 
  As a board, our task is to find a way to move forward in the best interest of all shareholders collectively. Take the CEO compensation. We negotiated a contract that was far more aligned to shareholder interest and value creation than the earlier contract. We know some promoters didn't like it, but over 98% shareholders voted in favour. Have we acted responsibly or not?
  
  
 ?
  Unfortunately, it does. We have no choice but to work harder. It takes courage and commitment to keep running uphill while a rain of arrows are being shot at you. But we are determined to succeed. 
