NEW DELHI: The third-worst   spell of this season on Tuesday drastically reduced visibility resulting in 112   taking off from IGI airport getting delayed, while several arrivals had to be diverted to nearby locations. Authorities had to put CAT IIIB operations in place for smooth functioning of airlines. Meanwhile, 84 arriving trains and 47 scheduled to leave Delhi division were also delayed.

 Officials said low visibility procedures were implemented late on Monday, around 9.55pm, as visibility started to drop suddenly. The Runway Visual Range recorded the worst visibility from 1.30am to 6am on Tuesday during which most departures were put on hold. This led to a backlog that caused on-ground congestion.
 
 “CAT IIIB and IIIA operations continued till 11.30am. Though flights were delayed, real-time flight updates were displayed at the terminals for the convenience of passengers,” said an airport official.
 
 Dr Jenamani, IGI Met department director, said, “We had already issued warnings on Monday evening. In December 2016, there were 13 foggy days with a total duration of 62 hours.”
 
 “Despite such high duration of dense fog, flight diversions at IGI in December remained low. This shows better monitoring and coordination during fog. Real-time information and timely warning provided to airlines, ATC and airport operators has helped a lot in achieving less diversions,” said a senior Met officer at IGI.
 
 IGI Met uses 18 RVR equipment at its three runways to monitor fog formation. “Fog status at all these RVR locations are updated every 10-15 seconds and are available live on the IMD website so that airlines can prepare in advance. For the ATC, real-time display and early warnings are provided so that they can put in place the required measures to further minimise flight diversion,” the officer added.
 
 Hundreds were left stranded at railway stations across the city as 85 arriving trains were delayed and 47 had to be rescheduled. “Eleven trains were cancelled on Tuesday, four for Wednesday and two for Thursday. We are also arranging basic amenities for stranded passengers at the platforms,” said a senior Northern Railways official.
 
 
