MARGAO: While the fractured mandate following the February 4 assembly polls has set the realpolitik ball rolling the state, it is   who has turned out to be the protagonist of the high drama that saw BJP return to power despite its  .

 ‘Goenkarponn’, the political maxim coined by Sardesai, will now be the new focus of the government, as declared by the state’s new chief minister,  , after his swearing-in ceremony earlier this week. ‘Goem, Goenkar and Goenkarponn’ had turned out to be the rallying point for all the anti-BJP propaganda that Sardesai used to devastating effect to emerge winner in the  , defeating his bête noire, Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik, the general secretary of the state BJP.
 
 Days ahead of the polls, Sardesai had urged the people not to give any political party an absolute majority a statement that drew flak from  , including Parrikar.
 
 “An absolute majority to any party leads to a government without any checks and balances in place. Only a coalition government can ensure people-friendly governance,” Sardesai had said at the launch of the election campaign of his Goa Forward Party (GFP). Naik, the BJP candidate, had reacted saying, “This only goes to show his political bankruptcy and frustrations.”
 
 While Parrikar and Sardesai have now promised a people-friendly and stable government for five years, Naik’s political career seems to be in the doldrums.
 
 Though Naik has put up a brave face and has gracefully accepted defeat, poll watchers say Sardesai’s association with Parrikar in the government will only mean that Naik will have a tough time retaining his political space in Fatorda. 
 
 Political observers point out how Naik, not too long ago, was seen as a promising politician mentored by Parrikar. They also point out how Naik, along with Parrikar as then opposition leader from 2007 to 2012, would take the Congress head on in the assembly, raising a host of issues, including mining irregularities, special economic zones (SEZ), etc.
 
 But when BJP came to power in 2012, decimating the Congress, Naik lost the election in Fatorda to Sardesai. His second successive defeat in the recently-concluded polls has brought about a sense of despondency in the BJP Fatorda camp. 
 
 “By aligning with BJP, Sardesai is now under tremendous pressure to retain his support base. Being a seasoned politician, he will exact his pound of flesh to the optimum for supporting the BJP. It is these quid pro quo deals that may hit Naik adversely,” a political observer said, preferring anonymity. 
 
 The BJP camp in Fatorda has adopted a cautious approach. “If our enemy has turned into our ally, where’s the damage? The party is always bigger than the individual,” a functionary said, adding, “Vijai’s entry into the BJP-led coalition will only mean a weakened opposition.”
 
 Last week, when asked about his future in politics, Naik had said, “From 2002, I have been a loyal soldier of the party and not a chameleon to switch over in one night. Vijai is just supporting my party. Even if he joins it, I will have no problem.” 
 
