CHURU: The two   of slain gangster Anandpal Singh—one done on the request of police and   and another by the family—have produced different responses from medical jurists.

 The contradiction in post-mortem reports on the number of bullets recovered from the fugitive’s body has raised new doubts over his death. However, senior officers of Churu police said that both the post-mortems have given a common cause for the death–organ failure due to bullet injuries.
 
 On Monday, TOI got the first post-mortem report, conducted at a hospital in Ratangarh, and the report of the second one which was done on the behest of Anandpal’s family and lawyers.
 
 While the first post-mortem found three bullets in Anandpal’s body, the medical team that conducted the second post-mortem report found two more bullets in the body of the fugitive.
 
 When queried about this contradiction, Rahul Bharat, superintendent of police, Churu, said, “In the initial post-mortem report, the doctors had clearly mentioned that they could find only three bullets in the body and had stated that one more could be inside the body, stuck inside his ribs. In the second report, doctors found two bullets in the body. But this is irrelevant as in both reports the common cause of death has been cited by doctors as organ failure due to bullet injury.”
 
 Senior police officers, who were part of the investigation under the special investigation team, were, however, tight-lipped. But, they too maintained that it was a just a case of doctors who did the first post-mortem not finding the two other bullets taken out later from Anandpal’s body.
 
 Likewise, if a person is shot point blank, there are chances of the blackening of blood, nerves and flesh. A senior officer on condition of anonymity said, “What makes this a flawless operation is the fact that in both post-mortem reports have not cited any blackening of blood, nerves and flesh, which is usually seen when a person is shot point blank. He was killed when the RAC commando hit him with a burst of fire in retaliation.”
 
 
