NEW DELHI: BJP's big gains in the civic polls in Maharashtra, particularly success in checkmating Shiv Sena in Mumbai, came a boost to the saffron party, which quickly proclaimed that the verdict will be replicated with wins in UP and other states going to the polls.

 With the gamble of going it alone in Mumbai after breaking with Sena delivering a three-fold jump in seats, BJP said the results were further proof of widespread endorsement of demonetisation after a major improvement in the Odisha zilla parishad elections, with HRD minister Prakash Javdekar saying   had lost its pro-poor plank to BJP.
 
 “The pro-poor plank used to be with Congress but is now with us. It's a big win. The results have showed that all sections of society are voting for BJP. The results of Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Utta rakhand state polls will be on similar lines. The results in Punjab will also be surprising,“ he claimed.
 
 The results also showed the emergence of Maharashtra chief minister   as a leader in his own right and he is the latest entrant to a list of BJP CMs who have made names for themselves, like Shivraj Chauhan, Raman Singh and  .While others have been re-elected and Fadnavis is in his first term, he has justified BJP's decision to ignore traditional caste dynamics while choosing him.
 
 PM Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah's preparedness to lean on “merit“ rather than caste, calculating that performance will pay in the long run. Shah has made the point that the “right“ caste is not enough if governance is slack. The Maharashtra results show that the BJP has been able to drive home the point that Se na needs to treat it as an equal and not subordinate.
 
 Apart from its wins, BJP drew satisfaction from the sharp decline in Congress fortunes, as the party ended behind NCP in some municipalities. “We are moving towards Congress-mukt Bharat (Congress-free India),“ Javdekar claimed, adding that the Opposition party's campaign against demonetisation had been a complete non-starter.
 
 “Modi and Fadnavis, supported by Mumbai president Ashish Shelar, demonstrated that BJP is the true representative of good governance, transparency and development,“ said Javdekar.
 
