KOLKATA: The   has received a grant of Rs 18.5 core from the state government to develop the parks, footpaths and boulevards within the corporation's jurisdiction. The fund was granted under the Green Cities Mission scheme.

 Corporation mayor Sabya sachi Dutta said that the civic body has received the funds to initiate work. “All the parks, boulevards, footpaths will be developed and   will be made more green under the scheme,“ Dutta said.
 
 Though condition of some of the parks are decent, there are still several parks, which need to be developed.
 
 TOI found that the condition of parks like AD-block park,   park and Baisakhi park and some others need to be developed. These parks are shabby and have plastic wastes strewn in the corners, the swings used by children are also in a damaged state. According to locals, the parks are left in a dilapidated state due to inadequate supervision and maintenance.
 
 Earlier, the civic authoriti es had found that there are some parks, which don't even have a a boundary wall. Some parks evem lacked proper fencing and planned play area.The civic authorities feel that some parks need to be better illuminated.
 
 The civic authorities are also planning to develop the boulevards and road dividers by planting trees and saplings.The authorities not only have parks, boulevards and footpaths on their check-list but also plan to develop bituminous roads and surface drain network to give the township a fresh and clean look.
 
 The township was once known for its abundance in greenery but the rapid urbanisation has taken a toll on its greenery over the years. Hundreds of trees were chopped off to make way for the metro pillars.Though some trees were planted as compensatory plantation, it was not enough to make up for the loss Earlier, the civic authorities had come up with a proposal to renovate or build four big parks under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation ( ).
 
 The authorities have evaluated the parks and open spaces in terms of space for physical activities, family facilities and child friendly play equipment.
 
