Madurai: As many as 73 bull tamers were injured in the much-awaited   held at Alanganallur on Friday. While 23 of them were referred to hospital, others were treated by the medical team available near the arena. Four bulls were also injured in the event. A few people also sustained minor injuries after a gallery collapsed.

 While a whopping 950 bulls had been registered for the jallikattu, 549 bulls were allowed to enter the vaadivasal. As many as 1,050 bull tamers participated in the jallikattu . Upon seeing the enthusiasm of the people gathered at the venue, revenue officials allowed an extra time of 45 minutes from the scheduled closure at 4 pm. 
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin witnessed the bull-taming sport along with Union minister of state Pon Radhakrishanan and DMK MLAs Sattur Ramachandran and I Periyasamy. Film industry personalities, including Raghava Lawrence, Karu Pazhaniappan and director Ameer also witnessed the sport. Stalin later distributed prizes to the successful bull tamers.
 
 Meanwhile, Alanganallur and its surrounding villages wore a festive look on Friday, as the place synonymous with jallikattu conducted the sport after a gap of two years. Thousands of people from various places including a few from Chennai and other northern districts travelled all the way to Alanganallur to take a glimpse of the event. The jallikattu organizing committee dedicated the event to the youths, particularly students, who fought for the ban on jallikattu to be revoked.
 
 The district administration and police ensured that all the rules were followed properly. Over 2,000 police personnel drawn from various district were deployed for protection and over 400 staff from various departments were involved in the arrangements. Six LED screens were installed at vantage points for spectators. Other mandatory arrangements like CCTV camera, medical teams and ambulance facilities were arranged
 
 Madurai district collector who was present throughout the event lauded the organizing committee for adhering to the rules regulations laid down by the state government. 
 
 Karuppanan, who emerged as the best bull tamer in Palamedu on Thursday, tamed a few bulls in Alanganallur too within a short time, but he had to leave the arena after he sustained an injury on his face.
 
 
