Noida: The Sector 71 and Balak Nath crossings in Noida remain congested even as the traffic police grapple with lack of proper engineering and planning that have gone into the making of the intersections. There are also proposals from the Noida Authority which have been pending for months.

 While commuters complain about lack of traffic management at the Sector 71 crossing, the traffic cops point to increased traffic pressure at the spots, especially during peak hours and the need for a strict hand to make commuters obey the traffic rules.
 
 The traffic police had suggested to the Noida Authority to create two U-turns at the Balak Nath intersection as most commuters entering the area from the nearby sectors tend to drive on the wrong side while crossing the intersection.
 
 However, the proposal never materialised despite a survey conducted at the site over a month ago.
 
 Congestion is witnessed at the spot regularly as commuters from the nearby Sarfabad village in Sector 73 tend to drive on the wrong side blocking the traffic approaching Noida from Ghaziabad and Greater Noida.
 
 Similarly, those approaching the spot from sectors 62, 63, etc too tend to cross the intersection from the wrong side, leading to traffic from four sides merging at the intersection.
 
 GB Nagar traffic inspector Dharmendra Yadav, who is currently posted in Barabanki, and a team of work circle 7 of the Noida Authority had visited the spot in March to carry out a survey.
 
 However, officials said the U-turns were likely to take at least four more months to be constructed after a final nod from the finance department.
 
 “The final cost estimate is ready and needs to be sanctioned by the finance department. Once that is done, the process of e-tendering of the contracts will have to be started,” M C Tyagi, in-charge, work circle 7, said.
 
 However, sources told TOI that with the change in the government, the process of issuing of tenders has slowed down and it might take much longer.
 
 Meanwhile, congestion is a common sight at the Sector 71 crossing as well, especially during peak hours. However, traffic police constables deployed at the spot said that the commuters tend to disregard the stop line at the intersection and refuse to obey the traffic rules.
 
 “There is a need for strict implementation of the traffic rules at this intersection. Last week, we had used lime powder to draw stop lines at the intersection so that the commuters obey traffic rules and do not jump the red light. It had a positive effect. We are regularly challaning violators at the intersection and will continue doing so,” traffic inspector Layak Singh told TOI.
 
 
