NEW DELHI: Even as   got the top rank for cleanliness in  , its  , Connaught Place, had a different tale to tell. 

 A very superficial glance at the main thoroughfares would give anyone a positive image of  : a clean, green zone teeming with life. A closer look, however, would reveal numerous flaws in the appearance. 
 
 The Inner Circle buildings have pan-stained walls and columns. At H Block, the pillars next to a bank look worse than an unmaintained toilet minus the stink. Yet life goes on as usual with street vendors setting up shop and visitors coming to buy their wares. 
 
 Krishna Sharma, a food vendor, said, “I don’t allow customers to litter. They drop waste in a dustbin, which I regularly clean up.” His surrounding told a different story.
 
 At G Block, spit stains are quite prominent.
 
  “I don’t want to be beaten up. Men eat paan and gutka and spit all around. If I ask anyone not to spit, I’m abused,” said Ramesh Kumar, a security guard.
 
 CP gets a very high footfall. And with food vendors and paan shops galore, littering is quite widespread. In covered arcades of blocks G, A, B and H, cigarette butts and gutka wrappers were strewn all around. “Unless the paan shops are relocated elsewhere, the situation won’t improve,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association. 
 
 Bhargava also blamed it on a general lack of civic sense among people for the situation. “In Singapore, the same person who does not care about littering the corridors of market places in CP becomes conscious enough not to litter the streets. Unless the people become conscious there will be little improvement in this situation,” he said.
 
 NDMC’s M S Shehrawat claimed all garbage is collected from door-to-door in Connaught Place. But the internal lanes revealed a different picture. 
 
 Outside one shop, garbage collected on Thursday afternoon was left as it is in rickshaws. The stench emanating from it was quite unbearable. But a sanitation worker said it was an exception as the garbage truck was late. 
 
 
