INDORE: Choral, otherwise a popular picnic spots for Indoreans, was the site for a farmhouse which was used by extremists and radicals to learn about mass destruction. The farmhouse was located off a river bank in Aronda village.

  activists had registered themselves with the banned organisation, and had been receiving training in making bombs, shooting firearms, slitting throats, riding a bike with their eyes blindfolded and staying underwater for a long time.
 
 High quality explosive material from factories in Nagpur was brought especially to this camp for training purposes, revealed proceedings before a special   judge against 11 SIMI leaders. They were awarded life sentences on Monday.
 
 A full-fledged training programme was run at this camp, which was attended by SIMI operatives from other states including Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh.
 
 The camp was revealed to police following the arrest of SIMI mastermind Safdar Nagori and 12 of his aides from Shyam Nagar in Indore on March 27, 2008.
 
 “During interrogation, they revealed it was used to train recruits,” independent witness Atul Pathak had told the court in his statements.
 
 The police had seized unused dynamite sticks buried at the farmhouse. Training modules of the camp were also found in Ahmed Baig’s possession during his arrest.
 
 Another SIMI operative convicted in the case,   had revealed to the police during interrogation that active members, including Safdar, Hafiz Hussain, Abdul Subhan and Abdul Alim had visited him in May 2007 to discuss the condition of Muslims in the country.
 
 Another accused, Baliuddin, claimed the SIMI members discussed the need to mobilise other activists. Baliuddin had also claimed that the outfit’s leaders told him that they were being separated into two groups, namely UG (underground) group and OG (‘over ground’ group).
 
 The UG group, were trained in Pakistan and Bangladesh, and was responsible for attacking temples and other public places. The OG group is responsible for spreading SIMI ideology and literature.
 
