NEW DELHI: Two days after the east corporation’s   went on   for   since the past two months, the   announced an advance payment of Rs 119 crore to the civic body. 

  said on Sunday that the money, sanctioned under the non-plan head, would reach the corporation’s account by Monday morning and that it should be “strictly” used only for payment of salaries.
 
 However, it is unlikely that the strike will be called off as both East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and the safai karamchari unions have called it an “eyewash”, claiming that the money is too little. A meeting of United Front of MCD Employees, which includes the unions of all three corporations, has been called at 2pm on Monday to expand the protest to the other corporations. 
 
 Claiming that the government has given “enough money to the municipal body”, Sisodia said “we do not know where it is going. The corporations have been claiming that the Delhi government has not given them funds. 
 
 “However, a look at the record will show that since AAP has come to power, we have not even deducted the interest on the outstanding loan,” he added.
 
 In 2012-13, Rs 399 crore was given as funds to EDMC; in 2013-14, Rs 416 crore; and in 2014-15, Rs 441 crore, said Sisodia. “After AAP came to power, Rs 702 crore was released in 2015-16 under the non-plan head and, for 2016-17, we have released Rs 609 crore till now. Till 2015, this fund was released after deducting Rs 60-70 crore as loan adjustment. We want to ask the corporation where is all the money going.” 
 
 The deputy CM also claimed that with the municipal polls due in a few months, BJP, which heads all three corporations, would be “taught a lesson” by Delhiites. “Not only are they thoroughly incompetent but are also exploiting the municipal staff. There is a high court order that says that salaries are to be paid by the seventh of every month. 
 
 “The corporation is in contempt of this order. BJP is both in the corporation and at the Centre. Why is it not asking the Centre to give it funds which it should be getting under law? Neither the corporation is collecting tax from DDA,” Sisodia said.
 
 EDMC mayor Satya Sharma, however, slammed the government for going back on its word. “On Saturday, the government promised Rs 125 crore but it has gone back even on that. This advance is a very low amount and we will not be able to fully pay all employees and pensioners even for a month. The government will only postpone the problem for another month instead of finding a solution.” 
 
 Rajendra Mewati, president of Dilli Pradesh Safai Mazdur Union, said the question of calling off the strike did not arise as the advance would not be enough even for a month’s salary. 
 
 Sanjay Gahlot, president of MCD Swacch Karamchari Union, said, “We need at least Rs 500 crore to update salaries. As a permanent solution, it is important to implement the Fourth Finance Commission report.” 
 
