NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old girl was   to Delhi, raped and tormented by her captor for three years. While she was locked up in an apartment in Govindpuri, she managed to alert the neighbours who informed an NGO on Saturday which   her with the help of the police.

 It was found that she was brutally tortured by the man due to which she had developed blood clots on her body. In her statement, the girl from Nadia in West Bengal said that she met the accused at the Sealdah railway station in Kolkata. He promised to get her a job in Delhi. However, instead of employing her, the man kept her in the apartment and forced her into prostitution. The man, Litu Mitra, was later arrested on the basis of the statement by the girl.
 
 In her complaint, the girl told police that she was 16-years-old when she left her house in Nadia to look for work in Kolkata. She met Mitra at the railway station in Sealdah and agreed to accompany him to Delhi as he promised to pay her Rs 10,000 a month. He claimed that he worked as an agent who helped girls get jobs as household helps in Delhi. The girl said that she had accompanied Mitra as her family needed the money.
 
 She reached Delhi on January 8, 2013. She said that Mitra treated her nicely for the first few days and even introduced her to his friends. However, one day while she was sleeping, he forced himself on her. He raped her several times when she resisted.
 
 She said that Mitra locked her in a room and thrashed her every time she resisted his rape attempts. He introduced her as his wife to the neighbours and called his friends over to his house to rape her. She was made to serve over seven customers a day in the past one year.
 
 He forced her to get intimate with them, for which he used to charge money. She also alleged that Mitra had shot some obscene pictures and videos that he threatened to put online if she did not comply with his demands. He used to change his house frequently and introduced them as a couple to the landlord.
 
 On Friday, she managed to step out of the house and alert a neighbour about her ordeal after which an NGO was informed. A medical examination revealed that she was hit with iron rods, pipes and hammers over a period of time leading to haemorrhages.
 
 A case under sections of rape, assault and POCSO was registered at the Govindpuri police station. Police said that efforts are being made to reunite the girl with her family members.
 
 
