Nagpur: All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will begin functioning in city with 300 beds from academic year 2019-20. Though with a slight delay, the building construction of AIIMS has begun at its sprawling land in Mihan. It is being constructed by Hospital Service Consultancy Corporation (HSCC). A detailed schedule has been prepared by Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). As per the set target, construction of the medical college building will be over by May 2019. As far as hospital is concerned, the out-patient department (OPD) will be ready by August 2018 and 300 beds in-patient department (IPD) by the end of August 2019. An HSCC executive told TOI, “Recently, Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) has sanctioned the building plan; after which the construction work could begin a few days ago.” Construction was to begin in August this year, but delay in getting the sanction delayed the work by about 45 days. The Union cabinet approved setting up AIIMS in the city at a cost of Rs 1577 crore during 2015. Following that, the foundation stone was laid in 2016. The work for comprehensive planning and designing of AIIMS was given to MS Perkins Eastman through a global tender during February 2017. Retd Delhi AIIMS director Dr Mahesh Mishra was appointed the officer on special duty (OSD) for the project in March this year. On April 6, 2017, a Central team headed by Dr Mishra visited the site. HSSC, the executing agency for the project, has already finished construction of boundary wall while the building construction began recently. The entire construction is supposed to be finished by March 2020. The IPD, OPD, diagnostics, residential facility for staff and doctors and hostel for students will be ready to be used by August 2019. In December of same year--the 300 beds IPD will expand to 600 beds and a trauma centre will be added.  As the construction of its own premises goes on, next major task is to start AIIMS from temporary premises in from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) campus. As per PMSSY schedule, AIIMS should begin functioning from temporary premises in July 2018.