BHOPAL: The state BJP, on Wednesday welcomed finance minister  's budget proposal on transparency in political funding though, the reform could send a jolt to party's funding campaign in Madhya Pradesh which has planned to collect Rs 11 crore as lifetime donations by February 11.

 BJP leaders however, supported the initiative saying, capping individual cash donations to political parties at Rs 2,000 from Rs 20,000 earlier would clean-up the entire system.
 
 “We welcome the budget proposals on transparency in political funding. We have been planning to check cash donations over Rs 20,000 and we do not see any problem in implementing the recent changes suggested by the finance minister. The budget proposals are also historic'', BJP state chief Nandkumar Singh Chouhan told TOI over phone. 
 
 The saffron party in Madhya Pradesh has recently decided to open bank accounts in each district to check cash donations and instructed the party workers to accept cash up to Rs 20,000 only. It was also decided that the party would collect Rs 11 crore as Ajeevan Sahyog Nidhi (lifetime party fund) for the year 2017 against Rs 8 crore collected during previous financial year. 
 
 “This is a revolutionary step and good for the donor and receiver both. There is no check on accepting donations but, the parties will have to maintain transparency. The concept of electoral bonds is also a new idea to check black money in the politics,” said Chauhan.
 
 The state party chief also lauded the measures to boost up development and growth in farm and industrial sectors. He said not only in MGNREGS but, allocations in rural housing and PM road scheme have also increased.
 
 “Madhya Pradesh can expect good from the allocations as the Union minister for rural development and panchayat hails from the state,” he said. 
 
 BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya termed the Union budget as pro-public and futuristic. “The budget has given importance to every sections of the society. The initiatives to bring transparency in political funding would help clean the system,” Vijayavargiya tweeted on the budget proposals.
 
 Appreciating the reforms, Union minister for panchayat and rural development Narendra Singh Tomar describe the budget as a focused plan for overall development. He said the decision to cap political funding to Rs 2000 is welcomed and initiatives to limit cash transactions at Rs3 lakh would check corruption.
 
 “The budget will bring a big change in the life of farmers, villagers, poor and women. It also attempts to raise the income of middle class people,” said Tomar.
 
