LUCKNOW: Infamous for brigands,   in UP’s Jalaun district is set to host a peoples’  . Slated for May 25, the event is drawing inspiration from faceless freedom fighters of the first war of Independence in 1857. 

 Titled Jung-e-Azadi Aur Chambal, the ‘jan sansad’ is set to take place at Panchnada—an area near Etawah which sees the confluence of five rivers: Yamuna, Kunwari, Pahuj,   and Sind. The meet aims to identify and raise issues about the deprivation the population faces and its right to development.
 
 Social activist and founder of Avam Ka Cinema (a theme-based film festival for people) Shah Alam, who lends a face to the event, said, “The war of 1857 emanated out of problems faced by the common man and turned into a movement which paved way for ousting the British from India. Likewise, our ‘jan sansad’ aims at identifying problems faced by people in the Chambal region across the states of UP, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.” 
 
 Citing references from various vernacular history books, Etawah-based writer KP Singh said, “Panchnada was the site of several strategic meetings organized by freedom fighters between May and December 1857 to decide the course of the campaign.” Etawah was among the first few places to witness the flame of the revolt, he added. “Two days after the rebellion in Meerut on May 10, 1857, the movement travelled to Etawah,” he said.
 
 AO Hume, then-collector of Etawah who later founded the Indian National Congress, had a narrow escape from one such event. According to a guidebook on the war of 1857, ‘Nana Saheb Peshwa and the Fight for Freedom’, Hume had formed a corps to guard the roads and anyone coming from Meerut was to be detained and disarmed. In one such operation, the rebel soldiers countered the British and grabbed their confiscated arms back.
 
 “These sepoys then took refuge in a temple along the Panchnada and were given food and help from the locals,” narrates Singh, adding, “Hume’s junior officer Daniel trailed the soldiers from Meerut only to be shot down. The soldiers were later joined by an Indian contingent which took on the English camp, looted the treasury and broke a prison. Declaring Etawah independent, the rebel soldiers gave British officers a chance to leave which was availed by Hume.”
 
 Alam also said that Etawah is a common link between the Indian National Congress and the Samajwadi Party, two parties which are dominant players in Indian politics. 
 
 “Still, the people in the region lead a life of deprivation which gives us the reason to hold this parliament,” he said, adding that Chambal’s section in Morena is also home to an ancient Shiva temple believed to be an inspiration for the Indian Parliament House. 
 
 
