NEW DELHI: July 9, 2006. It was past midnight in India. Sun had already risen in Japan but the world's attention was focused inside the Olympiastadoin in Berlin. Italy and France were playing the World Cup decider. Within the first 20 minutes both side scored and it stayed that way, till full-time. As the match flowed into extra-time, the simmering bowl of water toppled over.

 Marco Materazzi, the Italian defender said something to France captain  .   reacted and how! Zidane, the captain of France, crashed his head into Materazzi's chest. Never was such a thing done by such a great player in front of so many people.
 
 The template of the sports experienced a seismic shift in one man's moment of madness. In recent memory, the image of Zidane's head butt is as conspicuous as those of Berlin's postwar photographs. In its 140-year old history, cricket too has had its share of 'watershed' moments. Starting with the burning of bails to the Bodyline series, the rivalry between the 'Poms' and 'screaming convicts' received attention for the wrong reasons. Those were the days of telegraph and hazy photographs and black and white newspapers.
 
 Then, Apartheid sought to cleave the cricket world down the middle. But the gentleman's game held up its ideals of fair play. However, with time, as scenes of human depravity started invading drawing rooms, sporting misdemeanors too started walking frequently into our consciousness.
 
 So when in one such moment of madness, a   looked up to the dressing room trying to confirm a decision, viewers far and wide were shocked. "Oh that's not cricket," they screamed. Then, words like 'f*****g cheat' slipped out of the lips of the visiting captain. The game has taken escape velocity from the realms of friendly banter to hardline planet.
 
 And when  , the victorious captain of the India-Australia series, drew the curtains over a nail-biting contest saying, "It's the end of friendship with the Australians," one was forced to re-align one's thoughts about sports' essential justification.
 
 There was a time when it all ended with Rick Blaine saying "I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship." Not any more it seems. And,  , whose batting grace enhanced his impeccable behaviour on the field, is left wondering. "It has been happening for a long time. It is not the first time verbal fights have taken place. There are bound to be clashes. The Australians must have done something and we have reacted," said the former India captain while talking to TOI.
 
 But he didn't forget to add, "One shouldn't cross the line. There should be equal grace in victory and defeat." In his pre-series charm offensive, Kohli had said, "I'm really good friends with all these guys off the field. I know them really well, but I know where to draw the line of friendship."
 
 Banter has been an integral part of Australian psyche and cricket, their national sport. "Son, you have dropped the World Cup," is a famous cricketing quote. But   and  ' relationship never relegated to "not friends anymore."
 
 But this season has seen that line of control almost obliterated. Grace has been ravished on the field and in the press-conference rooms. Giving it back is the creed now. Skill is not enough anymore. A lot of spite is needed to spice things up. So when one says sorry, the other isn't ready to accept. Maybe, handshakes will be a thing of the past.
 
 The white flannel has survived a lot of attack over a hundred years. But it seems the current stain will take some time getting washed away.
 
