LUCKNOW: While several organisers had arranged for dustbins at their bhandaras, the public failed to optimally use them. 

 Apart from the dustbins provided by LMC, some bhandaras set up their own dustbins and even had volunteers to clean the roads and empty dustbins every few hours.
 
 Kamlesh Bhargava’s   at Rana Pratap Marg had six dustbins. The organisers made announcements every hour to motivate the public to use the dustbins. However, most of them did not care and littered the road.
 
 Every organizer complained about the public’s ignorance towards the environment and   disposal. Bhargava said, “We are doing our bit of providing dustbins but it’s the public’s job to throw the waste in them.”
 
 At Hanuman Setu, there were three LMC dustbins next to the bhandara. Of these, two were almost empty and a third was overflowing. Organiser Gopal Mohan Kulsheshtra said, “The public is supposed to use the dustbins, but they litter the ground.
 
 Behind the temple, the scene was worse. There was water on the road, creating a bigger mess as some bhandaras were cleaning the utensils on the spot.
 
 Mukesh Gulati, a member of Shri Amarnath Seva Sanstha said, “The water on the road is due to a leakage in the pipe. we have enough dustbins for the garbage generated.”
 
 Shishir Singh, an organizer of the   had Swachh   as the theme. The organizers were wearing white aprons and chef caps. “Cleanliness is a priority, we are wearing apron and cap to promote cleanliness and request devotees to do the same,” said Singh.
 
 At Bharat Samanvya Bhandara, the city’s biggest bhandara at  , 10,000 devotees turned up. The organisers had volunteers to clean the street every hour. 
 
 PN Khanna, a retired scientist who had organised a bhandara behind Hanuman Setu, used steel glasses instead of plastic ones to reduce garbage. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Uday Raj Singh said, “We had plans in place. Our team has been working towards garbage disposal. By Wednesday morning, streets will be free of garbage”.
 
