PATNA: The services of Bihar-cadre IAS official   are likely to be allotted to the Haryana government following a   order to this effect.

 Justice   and Justice Uday Umesh Lalit of the apex court on Tuesday directed the Centre to take appropriate action within three months over Gupta’s petition for cadre transfer.
 
 The 2013-batch official told TOI on Wednesday he had applied to the central government’s department of personnel and training through the Bihar government’s general administration department (GAD) for transferring him to Haryana cadre. “No action was taken by the GAD for more than a month,” he alleged.
 
 A GAD official admitted Gupta had submitted a petition for cadre transfer in March this year. “But why did he move the apex court, is best known to him,” he said, preferring anonymity.
 
 Gupta said he moved the Supreme Court as his fundamental rights were violated when he was jailed on the basis of a false accusation of graft. “I have also claimed a compensation of Rs 50 crore from the Bihar government for the harassment suffered by me and my family due to the arrest,” he said.
 
 Gupta was arrested by the Bihar Police’s vigilance investigation bureau in July last year when he was the SDO in Kaimur district, which was his first posting. Earlier, his driver Sanjay Tiwary and bodyguard   were arrested near the SDO’s residential office after they allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 80,000 from a truck driver, Jaspreet Singh.
 
 However, the Patna high court quashed the FIR lodged against the SDO. Later, the Supreme Court upheld the high court order while disposing of the state government’s appeal against the quashing of the FIR.
 
 Gupta, in the meantime, remained incarcerated in the Beur jail at Patna for 25 days. He was released after the Patna high court granted him bail on August 9.
 
 According to Gupta, he belongs to Firozabad in UP and cannot be allotted home cadre as per rules. He has applied for Haryana as his cadre as his wife belongs to Haryana.
 
 
