KOLKATA: Don't use a cell phone while driving. Period. If the police catch you, the   will be suspended for three months. If you don't learn a lesson and repeat the offence, you may lose the licence forever.

 Acting on a   directive, Kolkata Police launched this special drive to curb traffic-related offences this month. The drive has so far netted 62 offenders.
 
 If an offender is found involved in another offence of similar nature af ter the suspension is revoked after three months, police will recommend the transport department to take legal recourse to permanently suspend his licence. According to DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar, cops are using footage from CCTVs and bodycams so that they have evidence of the offence committed.
 
 “Every week we are seizing licences and handing slips to attend hearing in front of assistant commissio ners handling the 25 traffic guards. If the assistant commissioner is convinced of the offence, he suspends the licence. In other occasions, the officer will just fine the offender,“ explained Solomon.
 
 An officer from Lalbazar said, “This action follows the Supreme Court's order.“ A Supreme Court committee on road safety had asked the chief secretaries of all states and union territories to take stern action against violators of the law and exercise discretion under Section 19 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 and Rule 21 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989.
 
 The committee has issued specific instructions to all states and union territories and their concerned departments to suspend the licence of a driver for a period of not less than 3 months for driving at a speed exceeding the specified limit, jumping red light, carrying overload in goods carriage, carrying persons in goods carriage, driving vehicle under the influence of drink and drugs and using a mobile phone while driving a vehicle. Sources explained that all charges can be challenged in court.
 
 Police said they are targeting specific offences. “ At present, we have identified five offences. The first one is talking over cell phone while driving.The next is jumping of signals at important crossings. The bike riders are our prime violators in these two categories. In addition, overloading and carrying passengers in trucks and other goods vehicles is also being dealt with sternly . Our final target is to stop drink driving,“ said Solomon.
 
 Police said they always welcome stringent measures -proposed by the government -to check accidents in the city.
 
 
