NAGPUR: Cab aggregator Ola will launch a first-of-its-kind   transport hub in Nagpur next week in which a pool of 200 e-vehicles, including cabs, buses and rickshaws will ply on the roads. 

 Ola is investing Rs50 crore in the project and it will own all 200 vehicles as well as the four charging stations at different corners of the city that is being set up. 
 
 This venture will be launched on May 26 by MP and Union Minister for road transport and highways  . That day also marks three years of Modi government’s formation and is also the eve of Gadkari’s 60th birthday. The   is perceived as a pet project of Gadkari who is been keen to promote various environment-friendly means of transport.
 
 Anand Subramanian, senior director of marketing communications at Ola, told TOI that the project is a massive one and the company has put several innovations in place. “We are literally building an ecosystem where different types of transports like buses, cars and rickshaws run on clean energy and be available to consumers on a common platform. No one has done this before,” he said.
 
 With innovation also comes grey areas and registering of e-taxis was one such hurdle because existing rules were designed keeping fossil-fuel vehicles in mind. As per Maharashtra’s permit norms, vehicles of more than 980cc (cubic centimetres) engine capacity can be registered for commercial operation and these have to be of at least 1,400cc for high-end services. 
 
 Electric vehicles don't fall under the cc category as they have no internal combustion engines and their capacity is defined in terms of kilowatts (kw). Subramanian was hesitant to comment on this particular aspect till at least the launch date, but told TOI that it won’t be a problem. “All vehicles hitting the road will be fully complaint with the law of the land,” he said. 
 
 The 200 vehicles will be launched in a phased manner to keep in synch with the ground level infrastructure. “Each of the four charging stations will have a mix of slow and rapid charging sockets, with the latter being more than 10 times faster,” said Subramanian.
 
 At least one of the charging stations, if not more, will by operation on launch date. The stations are likely to use solar energy too. Neither confirming nor denying this, Subramanima said, “We will announce everything on the launch date as there are lot of innovative aspects of this project which people will be pleasantly surprised to know about.”
 
 Part of the hub’s ecosystem will be a facility for maintenance and repairs electric vehicles. “We are working closely with all our partners/manufacturers like Mahindra, BYD etc to ensure that everything needed for the hub exists in Nagpur. This project will see more investment coming, in the near future,” said Subramanian.
 
 Skill development will also be pushed through by Ola for its drivers. “A local office that is already taking care of it but of course with the scope and size increasing, we will be ensuring that professional skills are imparted to drivers,” said Subramanian.
 
