n A lawyer had complained of domestic violence and separated from her husband of two years. Now they have reunited.

 n A homemaker sought maintenance from her husband and lived separately for over two years after 15 years of marriage. But now she has come back home.
 
 n An orthopaedic surgeon and his wife, estranged for six years, are on the verge of  .
 
 These are a few of the success stories that are a result of an initiative by Calcutta high court. A number of couples in the city are now giving their marriages a second chance after the courts sent them to a medi-ator for counselling sessi-ons. The project was inaugurated by the mediation and conciliation committee of the high court, headed by Justice Biswanath Samaddar, in February. 
 
 Mediators are senior advocates trained by the state judicial department who are referred by the courts to sit with the aggrieved parties and counsel them for mutual settlement, if both the parties agree. So far, seven couples have been referred to mediators and four cases have ended in reconciliation.
 
 “A young lawyer had lodged a complaint of domestic violence after her husband asked her to get an abortion. Further, he was transferred to Mumbai and did not send money regularly while she was pregnant. However, after just one mediation session, the couple are living together with their one-year-old daughter,” said Jayanta Mukherjee, a mediator who had counselled them.
 
 “The mediation session was extremely successful. If both parties agree to mutually settle their dispute, only then can the court send the case to the mediator,” said Arijit Mukhopadhyay, secretary of district legal services authority, South 24-Parganas, adding that district judge Suranjan Kundu undertook special initiative to hold the session. After successful mediation, when both parties are satisfied, mediators can charge a fee that cannot be more than Rs 1,000 and both parties split the cost.
 
 One of the five mediators appointed by the court, Madan Mohan Das recalled an elderly couple who is also likely to reunite soon. “The retired couple would often fight and both filed partition suits, domestic violence and divorce cases. But now they are going to withdraw all cases and get back together.”
 
 Das shared the story of another couple — a Salt Lake-based surgeon and his wife who were separated for six years. The husband paid a monthly maintenance of Rs 45,000 and the wife was seeking a divorce. “I asked the couple to talk privately. Soon they were keen to stay together. The wife had earlier demanded an alimony of Rs 1.5 crore for divorce, but after the session she agreed to stay with her husband.”
 
 Apart from Das and Mukherjee, the court appointed Biswanath Chatterjee, Bimalendu Mondal and Dilip Kumar Ghosh as mediators for this project.
 
 One of Mondal’s success stories was that of a couple who had separated after the woman complained of domestic violence. “In the session, the husband admitted to having drunken brawls. After counselling, however, the couple wanted to stay together. The woman withdrew all the complaints and I asked their elder daughter to contact me if her father batters her mother.” said Mondal.
 
 However, the mediators were not successful in closing all the cases. The marriage of an IIT scholar and a Sector-V techie lasted for only two months in 2012, as the wife left her in-law’s place and sought divorce while lodging a complaint of domestic violence against them. “After the session, she refused to get back with her husband, but agreed to withdraw all the complaints and go for divorce with a one-time alimony of Rs 7 lakh. She wants to go to Canada to pursue her PhD,” recalled Ghosh.
 
 
