NAGPUR: Now state forest officials managing their postings to continue with lucrative territorial wing for years together will not be able to do so with the government coming out with a new transfer policy.

 As per the new policy announced on March 15, Maharashtra   (MFS) officials, right from the rank of divisional forest officer ( ) to forest guard will be posted in all the wings of the department in a three-year cycle.
 
 There are four wings in the forest department- territorial, wildlife, social forestry and research, training, working plan and evaluation. Of these wings, postings in territorial department are most preferred by officials.
 
 Dilip Singh, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) for administration & subordinate cadre, said the basic idea to posts officials in all the wings in cycle is to make them aware about working of all the wings.
 
 “The decision will be implemented from this transfer season from April-May,” said Singh.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, many forest officials are working in Nagpur for years together in same wing. Take for example   comprising Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha and Nagpur divisions. 
 
 Almost 60% of the officials — right from RFOs to DFOs — managed to get postings and promotions in Nagpur Circle only.
 
 There are many forest guards and foresters who lobby for postings at forest check posts where lot of states are involved. 
 
 However, Singh said, “Now these guards and foresters will get postings at such places only once. The postings will be done as per the ratio of vacancies.”
 
 If an   has worked in wildlife for three years, his next posting will be in territorial wing followed by social forestry and working plan. Continuation of any official in the same wing will purely depend on his efficiency and competence.
 
 The policy also states that forest guards who are promoted as foresters and are below 50 years, preference should be given to them for wildlife wing over other branches.
 
 This has been recommended as of the state cadre of 3,025 foresters, territorial department has 2,100 posts while wildlife wing has 333 posts and other wings have 592 posts.
 
 The policy makes similar recommendation for forest guards as the cadre of guards is 7,347 while of these wildlife has 1,736 forest guards. There is huge disparity between two wings when it comes to staff availability. 
 
 BOX
 
 INFOGRAPH
 
 * Now three-year cycle of postings in all the wings of forest department
 
 * Postings at forest check-posts will be once
 
 * Requests to stay put in any wing to be examined on the basis of competence 
 
 Those wanting to stay put in any wing again will be done if the officer or employee is competent and efficient with special skills
 
 * The basic idea is to make aware about working of all the wings and increase speed and accuracy
 
 
