Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of April 2017.

  and   top SRM University presents Times Celebex powered by Zoom list for the month of April 2017.
 Amitabh Bachchan was in the news for 'Sarkar 3', the third outing in Ram Gopal Varma’s franchise in which he plays Godfather-like central 
 character.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sushant Singh Rajput leaps from 44th rank to 28th rank. He made news for his next, 'Raabta'.
 Rana daggubati leaps from 18th rank to 9th rank. He was in the spotlight for 'Baahubali 2'.
 Nawazuddin Siddiqui leaps from 40th rank to 35th rank. He was in the news for 'Munna Michael'. 
 Aditya Roy Kapur leaps from 48th rank to 44th. He made headlines for his next ventures and endorsements. 
  
  
  
 
 
 Purab Kohli was appreciated for his understated performance in 'Noor'. 
 Manish Paul was in the headlines for his TV outings and endorsements.
 
 
 Neil Nitin Mukesh, Imran Khan,
 Ayushmann Khurrana
 
  
  
 Sonakshi Sinha was appreciated for her performance as journalist 'Noor' in ad filmmaker Sunhil Sippy’s directorial debut of the same name. 
 
  
  
 
 
  leaps from 28th rank to the 19th rank. She was in the news for her film 'Maatr'.
 Neha dhupia leaps from 25th rank to 20th rank. She made headlines for the new edition of the reality show 'Roadies'.
  leaps from 8th to the 4th rank. She made news for her next, 'Drive', with Sushant Singh Rajput.
  leaps from 40th rank to 38th rank. She was in the news for her upcoming film 'Mom.
 Kajol leaps from 32nd rank to 30th rank. She was in the headlines for her venture down South with Dhanush.
 
  
  
 
 
 Aditi Rao Hydari was buzzing, thanks to her next, 'Bhoomi'.
 
 Daisy Shah, Zareen Khan, Pooja Hegde
 
 
 
 
 He made news for his next, 'Tiger Zinda Hai', that rolled in Austria. 
 
 
 He was in the news for winning a National Award for 'Rustom'.
  
 
 He grabbed headlines for his TED Talk speech. 
 
 
 He was in the headlines for the casting of his next, 'Thugs of Hindostan'. 
 
 
 He was talked about for his brand endorsements. 
 
 
 He occupied news space for his next, a period drama titled 'Padmavati' with Ranveer Singh.
 
 
 There was buzz around his company’s Marathi films.
 
 
 He was in the news for his performance in 'Baahubali 2: The Conclusion'.
 
 
 He made news for his TV outings, endorsements and his well-attended house parties.
 
 
 She was in the limelight for her first Hollywood film, 'Baywatch' and her India visit.
  
 
 She grabbed headlines for being the top choice for playing PV Sindhu in her biopic. 
 
 
 She made news for her endorsements and her next with Sushant Singh Rajput.
 
 
 She grabbed eyeballs for her alleged romance with Anand Ahuja and a National Award special mention.
 
 
 There was buzz around her singing debut in 'Meri Pyaari Bindu'.
  
 
 Her first look from 'Haseena' and her romantic outing with Arjun Kapoor, 'Half Girlfriend', made news. 
 
 
 Her portrayal of a grey character in 'Sarkar 3' kept her in the news.
 
 
 She was in the news for her holiday with her mother and the workshops for her next film. 
 
 
 She made headlines for the announcements around her next film. 
 
 
