GANDHINAGAR: African Development Bank’s ( ) annual meetings in   ended on Thursday with a call to unlock the huge agriculture potential for overall development of the continent. Wide ranging deliberations on agriculture, food security, energy and trade and investments as well as deepening relations with India were held during the meetings, organized for the first time in India. The next annual meetings will take place in Busan, a port city in   next year.

 “Throughout the event, discussions were focused on ways to make agriculture lucrative, encouraging young people and women for transforming agriculture, promoting private sector investments and also cementing ties with India,” AfDB president Akinwumi Adesina said while addressing the concluding press conference on Thursday.
 
 Adesina, who has been pitching for agriculture to be taken up as business, firmly believed that it would create jobs, reduce food import bills and help   emerge as an important player in global economy.
 
 Attracting private sector investments was also a key subject of the event, which began on May 22. “The future of Africa also depends on what we do with the private sector, which is seen as the growth engine of Africa,” AfDB president added. Apart from de-risking private sector and improve business as well as regulatory environment, AfDB has decided to dramatically increase investments in private sector activities.
 
 Praising the   government for facilitating smooth organisation of the event and the state’s hospitality, Adesina said that Africa could partner and learn from India in areas such as harnessing solar energy, technological innovations in agriculture and financial inclusion. “We saw a lot of technology and innovation across India. And, Africa stands to benefit a lot by partnering with India in this space,” he added.
 
 The annual meet, which was opened by prime minister   on May 23, saw Indian policy makers promising greater engagement of India into overall development of the African continent. PM Modi underscored that Africa has been made a top priority for India's foreign and economic policy ever since he assumed office in 2014.
 
