BARNALA/MANSA: In a bid to challenge Punjab government’s move to fine those   in their fields, farmers led by farm organizations burnt wheat straw in at least six villages in   in the last two days.   (Ekta Ugrahan), BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) and Krantikari Kisan Union (KKU) have also asked farmers not to deposit the fine imposed by the authorities for burning of crop residue.

 The organizations demanded an assistance of Rs 2,000 per acre to prepare the field for the next crop without burning the stubble. They have decided to hand over memorandums to deputy commissioners on May 3 for cancelling the fines and cases registered against farmers for setting crop stubble on fire, failing which they would collectively burn straw starting May 8. On Sunday, farmers got together and burnt straw at Pakho Ke, Dhaula and Badra villages in Barnala district and Aklia and Bhainibagha villages in Mansa district. At Pakhoke, wheat straw over more than 500 acres was set on fire.
 
 “We don’t want to burn the crop residue but farmers have no option. Mixing the straw into ground is a costly affair and the required machinery is out of range for most of the farmers. The state government should first make proper alternative arrangements before imposing fines. We will handover memorandums to the DCs across Punjab on May 3 and if our demand of waiving fines and taking back the cases is not met, we will start burning straw from May 8,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner.
 
 President of the KKU Surjit Singh Phool said the government also needed to take care of pollution being spread by various industrial units and factories throwing effluents into rivers and canals, especially into Budda Nullah in Ludhiana. “We are ready not to burn crop stubble if alternatives are provided or Rs 2,000 per acre assistance is provided,” he added.
 
 Mansa DC Dharampal Gupta said that, “I have come to know burning of straw at Aklia and a team is being sent. Action will be taken against the violators.” Barnala DC Ghanshyam Thori said that, “Burning of straw at some places has come to my knowledge. Teams are being sent to take stock and take appropriate action against those involved.”
 
 2 fined for burning straw in Moga
 
 Moga district administration on Monday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on farmer Jora Singh of Patti Sandhua village for burning straw spresd over three acres. Farmer Sucha Singh of Bukanwala was fined Rs 2,500 for burning wheat stubble on two acres.
 
 
