NEW DELHI: Delhi assembly’s Questions and Reference committee has recommended action against   ( ) commissioner Puneet Goyal for “indiscipline, dereliction of duty and causing deliberate delay in execution of public work hurting public interest”. 

 Goyal has been accused of not using financial powers given to all three corporation commissioners, to approve work up to Rs 5 crore (the limit enhanced from Rs 25 lakh in 2014) and forwarding all work above Rs 25 lakh to the standing committee which then delayed its execution.
 
 The committee was hearing a complaint filed by GK MLA   against the urban development department for having given a “false” response to unstarred question number 19 that was listed for the sitting of the assembly on August 23, 2016. The question pertained to the reason for the delay in execution of various work under the MLA LAD (local area development) scheme in his constituency.
 
 “The committee is still looking into the issue of submission of wrong reply and also fixing responsibility on officers for misleading the House. However, during the proceedings on this matter, some important facts related to execution of work under MLA fund scheme have come to light. It is clear from these facts that deliberate measures are being carried out in some quarters to thwart the well-meaning effort of the government and legislators,” the report said.
 
 It went on to explain that due to the administrative structure of Delhi, most work under MLALAD are to be executed through the corporations and in the last two years, the standing committee and the House of SDMC “have passed a number of resolutions with the purpose of stalling and delaying the work recommended under the MLALAD scheme” and that the commissioner, in his deposition before the committee, expressed his helplessness to execute several projects due to these resolutions.
 
 “In a meeting on December 20, 2016, the commissioner stated that he had chosen not to exercise the enhanced limit to exercise fiscal discipline. This unilateral decision appears to be a clear case of insubordination and dereliction of duty,” the report said.
 
