State election commissioner   (62) seems to be chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s new friend. This is a welcome change from the past when Maharashtra witnessed ‘cold wars’ between chief ministers and state election commissioners. Known for taking a firm stand to ensure the model code of conduct is implemented in letter and in spirit, Saharia, an IAS officer of the 1978 batch, has instructed his staff to pull up politicians, irrespective of their status, for any violations. In fact, following his intervention, criminal cases were registered against state BJP president Raosaheb Danve and animal husbandry and dairy development minister Mahadev Jankar for poll code violations. Hence, it was a piquant situation before Fadnavis who was to inaugurate a Marathi literary festival. The CMO expected Saharia to either deny permission for the festival inauguration or grant it albeit with a rider that the chief minister’s speech would be first examined by the state election commission. But Fadnavis was lucky—Saharia not only allowed him to inaugurate the festival, but also did not insist on reviewing his speech. While making a speech at the event, Fadnavis said that had he been denied permission, then Saharia would have been the guest of honour for the inaugural event.

 
 
 
 The state home department, which is led by chief minister  , was recently left red-faced when a controversial jail official was reinstated following failure by the jail administration to complete the departmental probe against him within the stipulated period. Incidentally, the jail officer was posted at the central jail in Nagpur, which is Fadnavis’s home town. When Fadnavis took over the reins of the state in 2014, he found Nagpur Central Jail in a mess—a large number of cellphones were seized from inmates during checks. Fadnavis appointed Praveen Dixit, who was then director general of the anti-corruption bureau, to investigate the state of affairs at the jail and make recommendations. Even as the investigation was on, five criminals escaped from the high-security jail. The home department fixed the responsibility on a senior jail official and suspended him for dereliction of duty. Meanwhile, a senior IPS officer officer suggested that the CM step in and initiate a probe into why the departmental probe against the errant jail official was not completed on time. 
 
 
 
 
 Veteran   Girish Oke got the shock of his life when his belongings were thrown out of the government guest house in Oras, in Sindhudurg district, after midnight. Oke and his team of over half a dozen actors had been put up at the guest house as they were performing a drama in Oras on the invitation of a few government employees. Even as the drama was on at a local theatre, the guest house manager called up Oke and told him that he and the other actors would have to vacate the rooms immediately as they had to be made available for the relatives of the senior bureaucrat. Oke requested him to wait till next morning, but when he returned to the guest house from the theatre after midnight, he and his team were shocked to find their luggage dumped outside. The next morning, when the bureaucrat learnt of what had happened, he personally tendered an unconditional apology to Oke and his team. Even the collector apologized. The senior bureaucrat said that it was a goof-up at the local level as he had booked the rooms for his relatives in advance.
 
 
