PATNA: A pall of gloom descended over Mahendru area in the city as 10 persons of different families in the locality died in the Saturday  . 

 Wails of family members of   rent the air of Mata Khudi Lane in Mahendru area. Narmada, in her 60s, did not know she would lose four of her family members on the   day. She had gone to the diara with seven of her family members to enjoy the festivities, but returned with four only. “It’s my fault,” said the inconsolable woman, who lost her daughter-in-law   (in 30s) and three grandchildren. 
 
 Narmada’s daughter Usha Devi with her two daughters, Anjali (4) and Arpita (1), had come from Darbhanga. Aarti was with her son Piyush (12) and daughters Anushka (6) and Ruhi (2). Piyush was lucky as he had left the spot on the other boat. But Aarti, Anushka, Anjali and Arpita drowned in the Ganga. Narmada, Usha and granddaughter Ruhi were somehow saved. Ruhi is in the ICU.
 
 “It’s all over,” said Narmada, pointing toward her daughter Usha who lost both her children. The condition of Usha was worse and she was continuously on a sedative so that she could sleep. “We are worried about Usha because she is neither crying nor calling her daughters,” said Dulari Devi, their relative.
 
 Usha’s brother Vinod Kumar, who lost his wife and daughter, was also not in a conscious state of mind.
 
 With tears rolling down her cheeks, Gayatri Devi, in her 70s, was standing next to her daughter-in-law  , both in tears. “I lost my son. What will happen to his wife and two kids,” said Gayatri.
 
 An electrician by profession, Ram Kripal did not know he would have to carry the dead body of his son. Ram Kripal’s two sons — Neeraj Kumar (10) and Ranjan Kumar (15) with their cousin Rakesh Kumar (21) -- had gone to the diara. Though Ranjan and Rakesh managed to swim across the river, Neeraj could not.
 
 Ten-year-old Gaurav Kumar was shocked as he lost his sister Rupa Devi (21) and grandmother Shanti Devi in the tragic incident. Same was the condition of Pankaj Mahto, who lost his 11-year-old daughter Nancy Kumari. “She was a small child and got trapped inside the boat. She could have survived if the administration acted on time,” said Pankaj.
 
