BENGALURU: The   ( ), which submitted the detailed project report (DPR) for the airport link to the government on Thursday, says the revised alignment near Cantonment Railway station—connecting Shivajinagar and Pottery Town Metro stations—is the best option available.

 BMRC managing director Pradeep Singh Kharola said the corporation revised the alignment, which now goes through Bamboo Bazaar, as it saves money, is safer and the fastest way to connect Shivajinagar and Pottery Town. The original plan was to take it under the  . 
 
 “There are three broad reasons: technical, safety and financial. The earlier alignment was 1.8km-long with sharp curves that’d increase the time taken to reach Pottery Town by at least 2 minutes. The route we now propose is faster as it’s almost a straight line,” Kharola said.
 
 He also said the new alignment wouldn’t affect access to Cantonment Railway Station. “In either plan, people would need to walk the same distance. Here, we plan to construct an underground subway connecting the Metro station and the railway station and also have separate ticket counters for those getting off the Metro,” Kharola said.
 
 
 
 
 Stating that the revised alignment will save the BMRC around Rs 1,000 crore, Kharola said the old route would have been a big challenge for the tunnel boring machines (TBMs) too. “The longest tunnel in Phas 1 was 965m and both the TBMs had to be repaired. We have learnt our lessons and don’t think that a 1.8km-long tunnel would be easy with our TBMs,” Kharola said.
 
 In Phase1, the TBMs could be retrieved and repaired as there was enough land available with BMRC on the said stretch. However, if the machine fails on this stretch, which is part of Phase 2, it’ll have to be left underground.
 
 The BMRC also feels that such a long underground stretch (1.8km) isn’t safe for people. “Imagine if there’s a power failure. People have to be evacuated and this isn’t the safest option,” Kharola said.
 
 
 
 
 Also, if the original route was to be implemented then there’d be additional cost as the Railway Board has now given written instructions that any track going under an existing railway station needs to be at least 30m below the railway tracks.
 
 “If our tracks need to be 30m below then the station would be 40m below the Cantonment station, which isn’t feasible. On the revised route we’ll only be required to go 15m below the ground for our tracks,” Kharola said.
 
 
 
 
 Months after the city’s first underground stretch became operational, the BMRC has revealed a secret that led the Railway Board to revise its guidelines.
 
 Kharola on Thursday said it wasn’t viable to go under the Cantonment Railway Station—the original plan—as the Railway Board has issued instructions that Metro tracks need to be at least 30m below the station.
 
 Answering a question about how the BMRC had managed to lay Metro tracks just 15m below the City Railway Station if this was the rule, Kharola said: “This has never been disclosed before, but the land had caved in at Majestic and the railway tracks were hanging. Following this, the Railway Board revised its guidelines. We now have written instructions.”
 
 
 
 
 In the coming years, the Byappanahalli Metro depot will stop feeding trains on the East-West corridor. “Given the latest plans, Byappanahalli will be required to feed the   (ORR) line, while the Kadugodi depot will feed the East-West corridor,” Kharola said.
 
 The BMRC will need at least 50 acres for the Kadugodi depot, which have to be acquired from the forest department. “The process has begun and we will follow all procedures,” he said.
 
