PUNE: A handful of teachers from   had schools in the state are racking their brains and coming up with ideas to make studies interesting for their students and keep them in school.

 The   are as diverse as a studio in the school in Beed to make audio-visual content, to community participation that pushed up the attendance from 69 last term to 162 this term in Nanded, lockers in a Sinnar school and Urdu apps in Hingoli.
 
 The   in Ashti taluka of Beed district had too many drop outs. Schoolteacher Somnath Walke and his group found links between poor attendance and a lack of interest in studies.
 
 “Studious students will al ways come school. It is the average and below average students who have poor attendance. If learning was fun and informative they will attend school,“ Walke said. In 2015, he and the school shipped in to buy a camera which recorded the lessons in the class that were acted out by students.
 
 “Students could chose their roles. They would go home, write out their lines and act it out. For their roles to be more authentic, they would research and use their imagination which was fun for them. I saw that students who were otherwise not bright academically did excellent work in such roles,“ Walke said.
 
 The group then made a studio inside their school. They use an open source software and make students sing along.Musical instruments are also used in their performance.Walke also uses an app called Plickers in school.
 
 The ZP school at Hipparga in Nanded district had poor attendance till six months ago.Teachers Swamy Shivshankar Prabhakar, Narsingh Rama Waghmare and Shivsamb Ganacharya decided to change this.
 
 “The building was old. So we painted it with colours and put up informative pictures to brighten it up. We chipped in with the painting to cut down the expenditure,“ SS Prabhakar said.
 
 Teachers pooled in Rs 35,000 and the villagers gave Rs 30,000. The panchayat chipped in with Rs 1,30,000. These funds helped change the roof tiles and make the classrooms fit for constructive learning.The school is also gone digital now.
 
 “We got the school management committee to monitor students' homework. We ring the bell at the local temple which all villagers can hear.The committee's members take a round of the village to make sure that televisions are switched off and students are studying or completing their homework. This led to an increase in quality and the atten dance is 100%,“ SS Prabhakar said.
 
 
 
 
 Jagannath Shrirang Bhagat of ZP school in Patoda in Beed writes a question on the envelope with four answers inside it. The student solves the problem and takes out the four answers. There is a magic wand that Bhagat has devised using the magnet of an old tape recorder. Among the four options, the right answer has a small piece of metal embedded. When the wand is waved the chit with the right answer will stick to the envelope The ZP school from Surgaon has a locker for every student who don't have to carry heavy bags every day . Only the subjects where the student has to do his homework is taken home. Teachers Sandeep Lende and Umesh Khedkar have introduced a dining table for midday meals and a hair cutting at school Rafeeq Ansari, a teacher in a ZP school in Shirad Shahapur in Hingoli, has made apps in Playstore which gives question banks in Urdu. These are designed as fun games with eight levels that help the students learn the subject as if they were participating in an online game Sandeep Devrao Mohade of Ganeri in Yavatmal uses matchbox sticks and other items found in homes to make teaching and learning aids Sandeep Jadhav, Dilip Shinde and Ravindra Suryavanshi of the ZP school in Mhasala Raigad makes poetic riddles about scientific principles. The student has to answer it in the next class and those who solve it get named after scientists and their scientific achievement is narrated in class Anand Balaji of ZP School in Dahanu Palghar augmented reality and virtual reality software to teach children Mahesh Khade of Manivali in Karjat in Raigad uses phonetics to make students learn English. He introduced this in standard III and claims that students can spell and read English better Dattatrey Ware of Wablewadi in Shirur ensured public participation, constructive teaching to boost attendance in a cluster of 14 schools. Wablewadi is a model for other ZP schools with a drop out rate of zero.
 
