NEW DELHI: The 94th birthday celebrations of DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi are likely to provide a platform for an opposition mobilisation with the Dravidian party inviting Congress chief   and other senior non-BJP leaders for the June 3 event.

 The opposition show will come in the run-up to the presidential election in July which is expected to see a nonNDA nominee challenge the government's choice. The invitations for the event are being sent out by DMK working president and heir apparent M K Stalin and conveyed by Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi.
 
 A day after meeting   Chief Minister   and RJD chief Lalu Prasad in Patna, Kanimozhi met Sonia on Saturday to extend the invi tation to her. Both Nitish and Lalu expressed their preparedness to attend the function. Speaking to TOI, Kanizhi mozhi said, “In addition to June 3 being his birthday , my father completes 60 years as a   legislator this year. I met the Congress president and handed her the invite by DMK working president MK Stalin. We have invited all leaders who have been our allies, to attend these celebrations.“
 
 Sources said Sonia or Congress vice president   will attend the event.
 
 JD(U) leader K C Tyagi, who accompanied Kanimozhi to Patna on Friday , said the DMK patriarch's birthday celebrations would indeed be an occasion for opposition parties to come together on one platform.
 
 Tyagi said the time is opportune for DMK to consolidate itself as its rival AIADMK is struggling to contain factional fights after the death of its leader Jayalalithaa. “Karunanidhi is the senior-most among opposition leaders and he has extended invitation to most of the leaders, who have agreed to be there,“ said Tyagi.
 
 He said the context will also be the opposition's move to project a joint nominee for the presidential poll and is seen as a precursor to a likely antiBJP line-up for the 2019   elections. “The opposition has agreed to field its candidate as we all are of the view that a BJP leader should not occupy the most important office,“ said Tyagi.
 
 Sources said though DMK has not proposed its own candidate, leaders of Congress, NCP, JD(S), JD(U), RJD, CPI and CPM have held deliberations to make a point over the “majoritarian“ politics of the Modi government. 
 
