BENGALURU: Since commercial aviation was moved from the HAL Airport to the   (KIA), commuters from the east part of the city had to take the Outer Ring Road through Channasandra,  ,   and then cut back into   at  . That will change now, as authorities on Monday threw open an alternate route, just in time for those heading to the airport to fly out of the city or to catch all the action at the   show. BT explored the new route...

 
 
 Distance: 27 km
 Time: 55 minutes
 Break up: Hennur Cross - 13 km - Bagalur Village - 7 km - Mylanahalli Bus Stop (turn left) - 2 km - Begur (turn right on to New Airport Road) - 1.2 km - KIAL Airport Road - 3 km - Domestic Terminal
 
 
 
 Distance: 13 km 
 Ground reality: Not even, but commutable. Narrows down at three small villages. Low traffic volume, so can cover stretch in 35 minutes.
 
 
 
 Distance: 26 km
 Time: 40 minutes
 Break-up: Nagawara - Thanisandra Main Road - 9 km - Turn right on to Bagalur Main Road - 5 km - Bagalur Village - 7 km - Mylanahalli Bus Stop (turn left) - 2 km - Begur (turn right on to New Airport Road) - 1.2k m - KIAL Airport Road - 3 km - Domestic Terminal
 
 
 
 Distance: 14 km
 Ground reality: This route has very good roads that would take you to Bagalur village in about 20 minutes.
 
 
 Bagalur village to KIA: Continue on Bagalur Main road for 7 km and turn left at Mylanahalli. The new connecting road is about 2 km ahead. This stretch has not been tarred yet, but is definitely usable and can be covered in less than two minutes. Once you cover the distance, you find yourself at the landmark circle on the New Airport Road, which is less than five minutes from the domestic terminal. 
 Time: From Bagalur village, the domestic terminal of the International airport is about 20 minutes away.
 
 
 
 “The new road was laid in less than 10 days. We wanted it to be motorable before the commencement of the aero show. Once it is done, we will close the road and complete work on it in about a month’s time”
 
 
  
 “When I heard of this route, I was apprehensive about using it, as these are parts of town that I have never explored. On the last stretch, which is not complete, I got a little worried, as I was unsure about where it would lead. But once I got to the end of the road, it was a relief to find that I was almost near the airport. I hope the authorities complete work on this road at the earliest. This route is short and much faster than the original route during peak hours”
  
 
  
 “I have taken this route many times, but from Mylanahalli, we had to head towards Ballari Road and take the Airport Road, which is around 16 km and takes roughly 25-30 minutes. But via this new road, it takes me about 10 minutes to cover the 6 km distance to the airport”
 
 
 
 “I have worked at the Devanahalli Police Station for a long time now. When we received instructions to take charge of the new road, we were shocked to know that a road could be laid and opened for traffic in such a short span of time. The authorities have done a commendable job in putting this up and are doing there best to make it convenient for the public. As the stretch has mud roads, every few hours, they are ensuring that it is watered, so that it doesn’t get too dusty. Also, we do not force people to take this road, we only guide them”
 
 
 
 “This is a part of the alternate route that has been designed to reduce traffic congestion on Ballari Road, especially during the Aero India Show. Last year, in the absence of an alternate route, there were traffic jams for over a kilometre near the air show venue”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
