CHENNAI: The State Level   Assessment Authority (SEIA) which monitors and reulates mining permits, has been without a chairman for the past five months.The body is unable to amend existing   already issued, and renew  

 Earlier, Tamil Nadu had 60-70  . The number dwindled, and about 8-9 months ago, only 40 were in operation, an official of the Public Works Department (PWD) told TOI. “ As the licence for 20 of them lapsed, only 20 quarries were catering to the demands of the entire state for the last three-four months.“
 
 As per rules, quarries upto 25 hectares in size must conduct their mining and loading operations manually , whereas for others, mechanisation or se mi-mechanisation is permissible depending on the deposition of sand, agricultural land nearby , and other conditions.Out of the 20 quarries that were functioning till Saturday , 11 fell in the manual mining category but had a semi-mechanisation arrangement after obtaining permission.
 
 A division bench of the Madras high court comprising Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice R Suresh Kumar had on April 29 orally directed the advocate-general to instruct his officials to either stick to manual mining or expedite the process to get the licence amended to permit use of machines.
 
 To amend the existing licence conditions or to renew permits of the 20 other quarries, or to allow new quarries in other areas, a fully functional impact   headed by the chairman is mandatory .With the chairman post lying vacant since December 2016, these issues could not be addressed. As per rule, the state has to recommend a name to the Centre, and the latter must appoint the chairman. So far, the state has suggested three names, and all of them were shot down by the Centre, said an official, adding that a fourth name is pending with the Centre.
 
 Till Saturday , the 20 quarries were scooping out about 3,500 truckloads of river sand per day , against the state's daily requirement of 7,000 to 8,000 truckloads. Sand prices which were around `13,000 to `15,000 per load, are now being quoted at `25,000 and above now, said the official. The waiting period for truckers is five to six days for asingle load of sand. If the11quarries switch go completely manual, the waiting period would double, said an operator.
 
