PUNE: Noted social worker   staged a   at  , near Talegaon, late on Wednesday night.

 Sapkal, affectionately known as the ‘Mother of Orphans’ for her work towards raising orphan children, witnessed a near accident involving a vehicle carrying around 20 people and a heavy vehicle, which was driving in the wrong lane. 
 
 The near-miss took place in the Khandala   when Sapkal was returning to Pune from Mumbai.
 
 “There were about 20 people, including women and children, in that vehicle,” a visibly-shaken Sapkal told TOI. “They were lucky to have a narrow escape. But, I shuddered at how accidents can happen on the expressway because of such indiscipline. So many people have lost their lives for no reason,” she said. 
 
 Which was why she decided to protest, and took the toll plaza staffers to task, and around 100 motorists stepped out of their vehicles in support. 
 
 The 94.5km-long expressway is being maintained by Ideal Road Builders. Sapkal upbraided the staffers, asking them why travel on the expressway is not safe despite everyone paying toll. “I asked them how many lives need to be lost before they take action against indisciplined truck drivers,” Sakpal told TOI.
 
 Traffic near the plaza was disrupted due to the protest. Sapkal finally relented after a few motorists pacified her and made her to return to her car.
 
 “I gave (the toll plaza staffers) an eight-day ultimatum to act against reckless truck drivers, or else I will launch an agitation right on the expressway,” Sapkal said.
 
 The celebrated women and child welfare activist is no stranger to such agitations.
 
 A few years ago, She had protested against the deplorable condition of the road leading to Sindkhed Raja in Buldhana district — the birthplace of Jijabai, Chhatrapati Shivaji’s mother. “After my agitation, three MLAs in the area came together and got the road repaired,” Sapkal recalled.
 
 Over-speeding, rash and negligent crossing of dedicated speed lanes, and vehicles cutting across lanes from either side of the expressway have contributed heavily to the number of accidents. Between 2013 and 2016, there were 1,076 accidents in which 415 people died and 490 were seriously injured.
 
 The problem is especially acute at night, when heavy vehicles such as trucks, cargo containers and multi-axle carriers are on the move. As per the rules, all heavy vehicles are strictly supposed to drive in the extreme left lane while the middle lane is for the light motor vehicles such as cars and SUVs. The extreme right lane is meant for overtaking.
 
 There were about 20 people, including women and children, in that vehicle. They were lucky to have a narrow escape. But, I shuddered at how accidents can happen on the expressway because of such indiscipline. So many people have lost their lives for no reason
