NAGPUR:   is a drawing teacher by profession. But his achievements go far beyond that. The president of  , he won the first prize in the recently held International Cartoon Contest and Exhibition held in the city. His cartoon depicted Mahatma Gandhi walking on a sword named ‘truth.’ He has been in the field of painting for the past 25 years, and has exhibited his artworks based on Gautam Buddha in Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Delhi and other cities, and won awards. He has painted the 10x15 feet long painting displayed at Persistent Systems, IT park, which was showcased in the last episode of Satyamev Jayate, season I.

 Excerpts from his interview with TOI..
 
 
 
 A. After I failed in Std X, I joined Government   for Bachelor in Fine Arts from where I even completed my Masters. In the second year, I tried participating in university cartooning competition, and, surprisingly I won the first prize. I kept participating and won gold in zonal and even national level. I started in Nagpur with Janvaad, a newspaper, and as a freelancer contributed to most of the newspapers and magazines here. I’ve been cartooning and painting ever since and formed Vidarbha Cartoonist Association. We organized the first cartoon exhibition of Vidarbha three years ago.
 
 
 
 
 A. I’ve conducted cartooning and drawing camps for children and in Nagpur prison. I’ve also taught deaf and dumb individuals. During Tsunami, I’d taken the initiative of collecting funds. All of us artists had gathered and we drew caricatures and cartoons for three consecutive days. The money that we collected from selling those artworks was donated to the organizations working for relief.
 
 
 
 A. Art and society are linked. Cartooning is a subject that can subtly wage war against all evils in society. Most people think cartoons are only meant for entertainment or making them laugh. But that doesn’t limit the importance of cartoons. RK Laxman and Balasaheb Thackeray changed the concept of cartooning. Cartoonist Shankar of an earlier generation was a good friend of  . Nehruji himself used to say, “Shankar, wherever I make a mistake, don’t spare me.” Politicians nowadays are not tolerant of criticism. They don’t take it sportingly and tell cartoonists, ‘Why did you do this?’
 
 A. Parisian Magazine Charlie Hebdo’s office was attacked over an ‘offensive’ cartoon. In India too, artists have been targeted. Do you think cartoonists are safe in expressing themselves?
 
 A. I feel people with narrow mindset will keep being a hindrance for cartoonists. Till one doesn’t broaden his/her thinking and start accepting shortcomings, they invariably attack humanity. The freedom that needs to be given to any artist is being curbed. If we make art which is truthful but goes against a person or ideology, there’s always a sense of fear regarding threatening calls or actions.
 
 
 
 
 A. It has happened a couple of times. The Bollywood song ‘kaanta laga’ was very famous and people kept playing it loudly even during Ganeshotsav. My cartoon was on Ganpati trying to block his ears due to excessive noise pollution. Some people said it hurt their religious sentiments. I was made to say sorry. For another cartoon that mocked Shiv Sena and BJP, they ‘advised’ me how I shouldn’t do such things and was again made to apologize. But I have never endorsed a wrongdoing. I will try to speak the truth with the help of subtlety and satire.
 
 
 
 
 Cartoonists are paid too less in the city compared to metro cities such as Mumbai or Delhi. It is true that there are very few qualitative artists in the city, but at least they should be respected and paid as much as they deserve. The difference is almost 50%.
 
