IMPHAL: Three former presidents of the   have laid the blame for the ongoing economic blockade on the national highways in the state squarely on chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, saying he is the leader of "his own people" and "not the entire state". 

 The   did not give any indication of wanting to end the blockade, which entered its 82nd day on Sunday, notwithstanding the state government's willingness to hold a tripartite meeting with the Centre and the UNC on Monday morning at the  .
 
 UNC general secretary S Milan told TOI that they have rejected the   to join the dialogue, citing various reasons, including the setting aside of their choice of either Delhi or Senapati as the dialogue venue. 
 
 Three former UNC presidents - KS Paul Leo, Samson Remei and L Adani - said in a joint media statement that there are four MoUs with the state government and Naga organizations to the effect that creation of new districts would not be done without consulting the stakeholders.
 
 There is also an assurance from the Centre, based on Ibobi Singh's declaration in the presence of then   home minister Chidambaram and a UNC delegation, that such sentiments would be respected, said the joint statement issued on Sunday evening.
 
 "At the end of his present tenure, with barely a few months left, Ibobi Singh chose to desecrate the MoUs as his government created seven districts on a midnight (December 8, 2016), drawing lines that would divide people, alienate people from their ancestral domain and disturb the peaceful co-existence of communities," it said.
 
 The statement added that the new districts were created with full knowledge of the opposition the move would face. "The economic blockade was initiated by the chief minister. Only his wisdom and realization can stop it," it said. "The issue of land is very dear to the tribals and Nagas. Land gives us our identity. Our culture, way of life and value system evolve from our relationship with the land," the statement said.
 
 The CM is on record stating that land belongs to the state and not to any community, going against the very spirit and letter of Article 371 C of the Constitution, which clearly gives cognizance to the land rights of the tribals in Manipur, it added.
 
