CHENNAI: The   has reworked its strategy for R K Nagar byelection by hitting out at former chief minister O Panneerselvam to counter the 'unexpected' ground swell of support for OPS and his candidate E Madhusudhanan among the electorate. 

 Going into the byelection, the DMK leadership had initially planned for a direct contest with   ( ) faction leader T T V Dhinakaran. Given the perceived public dislike for V K Sasikala and her clan, the DMK leadership turned even a bit complacent and chose to field Maruthu Ganesh, a greenhorn, to challenge her high profile nephew. A week into the campaign, the ground reality is fast changing and OPS is gaining traction, causing concerns for the DMK leadership. Going by crowd response at public meetings and roadshows, the fight is now between the DMK and the OPS faction. 
 
 Only after sensing this change of public mood did Stalin hit out at OPS (accusing him of remaining silent about the "secrecy shrouding" the death of Jayalalithaa when he was a minister and later chief minister) at a public meeting on Tuesday, said Manoj Pandian, former   MP and a senior leader in the OPS camp.
 
 DMK spokesman T K S Elangovan said Dhinakaran was no longer in the race. "The fight is between our candidate and Madhusudhanan. He is a resident of the constituency and was an MLA earlier. Ganesh is also a local man," said Elangovan. Pandian feels the bypoll would be a game changer in Tamil Nadu politics. 
 
 Stalin would prefer that the fight remain only between Ganesh and Dhinakaran, said analyst M Kasinathan. "OPS has been whipping up public ire against the Sasikala clan by raising the secrecy surrounding Jayalalithaa's death. As it is gaining resonance with local voters, Stalin has made Jayalalithaa's death a poll plank as well. He cannot afford to allow OPS to draw political mileage on Jaya's death," said Kasinathan.
 
 There is a perception that the rank and file of the AIADMK is with OPS and only some leaders are with Sasikala and Dhinakaran. "In R K Nagar, if a vast section of AIADMK cadres support the OPS faction, with the backing of AIADMK sympathisers and some neutral voters, it could either win or finish as a close second. If either of this happens, the DMK is worried that OPS would emerge as an alternative for the DMK on the poll scape. Stalin would prefer that OPS and Dhinakaran share the AIADMK vote bank equally, because that alone will strengthen the DMK's position," he said.
 
 The perceived blessings of PM   that OPS enjoys is another cause of concern for the DMK. With many hostile regional parties on the prowl, the DMK does not want an electoral front being formed in the state under OPS leadership, said Kasinathan.
 
