CHENNAI: Claiming that the video clips of men in khaki setting fire to vehicles on Monday were fake, law enforcers have begun making inquiries in shops at Vadapalani and Kodambakkam from where they believe miscreants hired police uniforms over the past one week. “Some uniforms could also be for a film or a television shoot, but we are checking,“ said a senior officer. The image of the city police, who had shown restraint when the massive   began on the Marina beach on January 17, took a beating on January 23 when video clips of `men in khaki' went viral on social media platforms.

 The alleged incident sparked outrage and the police top brass came out with a denial.
 
 Further, in a Facebook post on Tuesday , police claimed that exemplary punishment would be awarded to any law enforcement personnel proven guilty of resorting to acts of vandalism.
 
 The post on the department's Facebook page said, “Videos are being circulated in social media about some in dividuals in police uniform indulging in acts of violence.While such videos are disturbing for every member of the police department, it is a matter, however, to be enquired in to.“
 
 On Thursday, police sources said they had found that at least 62 khaki uniforms had been taken on rent from shops in the city in the past few days and alleged that some of those could have been used by those responsible for the violence, in a deliberate attempt to malign the department.
 
 Environment activist Nithyanand Jayaraman, however, said this was a story concocted by police that few would believe. “The incident of policewomen torching vehicles happened near the fishing stalls at Nadukuppam.
 
 Police commissioner George has enacted a Kudankulam like incident in the city,“ he alleged.
 
 Others said past incidents proved that many videos and photos appearing in social media were morphed and that videos of a genuine incident elsewhere could also have be en changed to show it occur red in Chennai. A thorough probe is needed, they said.
 
  in Vadapalani, near the jurisdictional police station, and Trust Puram in Kodambak kam are the hub of shops renting out police uniforms.
 
 One shopkeeper said they charged Rs 500 a day for a police inspector's uniform. “For ranks like sub-inspector and constable, it is Rs 400 a day . We demand Rs 1,000 as advance,“ he said. Another said the rent could be lower if the order was for more than 20 sets.
 
