SHIMLA: Rape of a minor girl by a school teacher has lead to communal tension in   of Chamba district in  . As the girl belongs to the minority community, agitated members of her community on Saturday attacked the teachers after which members of another community on Sunday protested at Bhanjraru.

 On Monday, there were protests once again even stones were pelted stones in which three policemen including Additional SP Chamba were injured while in turn police took to cane-charge and also fired tear gas shells to disperse the mob.
 
 Himachal Pradesh chief minister   was supposed to lay the foundation stones of some projects in Tissa but he cancelled his visit. The CM clarified he didn’t visit Chamba because of the tension but he was running short of time and without chopper service he had to cancel his visit. 
 
 Police on Sunday itself arrested four people on charges of attack on school teachers but this did not improve the situation as on Monday people again gathered at Bhanjraru from where a procession raising slogans headed towards the house of   Dildar Ali Bhatt accused of instigating people to attack teachers. 
 
 To prevent communal clashes, the district administration deployed heavy police force in the area at Khushnagri. Virbhadra though said that unrest at Tissa in Churah assembly constituency due to conflict between the two communities was under control, strict action would be taken against those who were flaring up the issue. ''I have come to learn that few people in the opposition were also trying to create differences, leading to conflicts and I assure that the guilty would be brought to book,” he said.
 
 However, leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal said that Virbhadra’s statement was unfortunate. He said instead of blaming opposition, Virbhadra should either improve law and order resign. 
 
 Dhumal said that in 1998 whem he was the chief minister, terrorists had killed 35 people in   and he personally visited the spots and appealed to local people to maintain communal harmony. In contrast, Virbhadra even after being in the thick of things, returned from Chamba. He said the presence of the   at Tissa would have improved the situation.
 
