HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old Indian woman from  , who was sexually harassed by her kafil (employer) in   Arabia, has been rescued by the ministry of external affairs and Indian embassy officials in Riyadh. The woman, Hafijabanu Rajabhusen, touched down at Mumbai airport on Sunday. 

 The Gujarat government vigorously pursued her case after it was brought to light by a social worker and BJP leader from Hyderabad, T R Sriniwas. Twelve days ago, TOI contacted a distraught Rajabhusen, who was holed up somewhere in Saudi Arabia, but was unaware of the location. She narrated her trauma and cried for freedom from her kafil’s clutches.
 
 On March 8, TOI reported how Hafijabanu, a victim of trafficking, was forced into slavery and sexually exploited in Saudi Arabia. Following the report, the Gujarat government and MEA swiftly acted to   her. “Hafijabanu has been rescued and Gujarat government is acting against the traffickers,” said Sriniwas.
 
 Hafijabanu wore a dazed look when she landed in Mumbai airport on Sunday. She could not believe her nightmare was over and her eyes were welled up with tears. She had earlier told TOI that besides  , she was being constantly shuttled through different places by her kafil. “I live in constant fear,” she had said. She was trafficked to Saudi Arabia in May 2016.
 
 Upon reaching Mumbai, she was taken to Ahmedabad by road with police escort. Security was important as a gang of illegal agents was recently busted by the Ahmedabad crime branch. 
 
 “Operation Rescue Hafijabanu Rajabhusen” was initiated by Dholka district deputy collector Ruturaj Desai, who after taking details from Sriniwas and this correspondent, took up the matter with the ministry of external affairs and the Indian embassy. Protector General of Emigrants (PGE), Government of India, M C Luther, took down her details and began the rescue mission.
 
 “Hafijabanu will get medical aid and psychological help to get over her trauma,” Ruturaj Desai said. “One of the agents who sent her to Saudi Arabia is from Mumbai and another from Ahmedabad. Both have been arrested,” he told TOI. Earlier, Gujarat revenue minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama had told TOI, “We will rescue her at any cost.” Rajabhusen hails from the Chudasama’s Dholka assembly constituency.
 
