BOMDILA: "This is the land where I first got my freedom. It's an emotional moment for me. This visit brings back the memories of those days. I feel very happy," the Dalai Lama said with a glint in his eyes soon after he finished his religious discourse here on Wednesday. 

 Walking down memory lane, the spiritual leader said, "In 1959, I came to India through this route ... A few days ago, I met an   Rifles soldier in Guwahati. The meeting was a very emotional one." (The Assam Rifles jawan, Naren Chandra Das, was one of the six soldiers who had escorted him to safety from the McMahon Line when he fled from Tibet in 1959.)
 
 Speaking to the people of  , who practise Tibetan Buddhism, the Dalai Lama said, "Tibetan Buddhism is based on Nalanda teachings. This Himalayan region traditionally follows Buddha dharma. From Ladakh to Tawang, all big and small monasteries should teach Nalanda practices." Describing himself as India's longest staying guest, he said, "India is our guru and we are its chelas (followers)."
 
 The Tibetan leader, known for his sense of humour, flexed his muscles and remarked, "I am 82 years old and still going strong. The other day, I was flying to Dibrugarh from Guwahati. It was quite a bumpy ride as there was turbulence in the air." He said he had no complaints about his gruelling 325-km road journey from Guwahati to   on Tuesday.
 
 The Dalai Lama's website gave details of Tuesday's interaction between him and his compatriots at Tenzingang, a Tibetan refugee centre before his arrival here. It said, "Speaking briefly to them, he noted that Tibetans have been in exile for 58 years and that conditions in central Tibet continue to be very difficult, although they are not quite so tough in Kham and Amdo." It added, "He praised the unflagging spirit of the Tibetan people and encouraged his listeners to be proud of their culture and the rigorous education that has been preserved in Tibet's monastic institutions." It further said, "He mentioned that although life in exile has its sad aspects, he also appreciates the enriching experience it has brought and suggested that those who eventually return to Tibet will take with them a broader vision than before." 
 
 
