LUCKNOW: The special CBI court in Lucknow, which had started day-to-day hearing in the   last week, said on Wednesday that it would frame charges against former Deputy Prime Minister   and 11 other BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders on May 25 and 26 for their alleged role in conspiracy behind the razing of the structure on December 6, 1992.

 While charges against Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati, Viany Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Vishnu Hari Dalmiya would be framed on May 26, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Mahant Ram Vilas Vedanti, Baikunth Lal Sharma alias Prem Ji, Champat Rai Bansal, Dharma das and Dr Satish Pradhan would be charged a day before. All of them have been asked to be present in the court when charges would be framed against them.
 
 While the special CBI court had dropped conspiracy charged against the leaders in 2001, the Allahabad high court had upheld the order in 2010. The CBI, however, moved the Supreme Court which in its April 19, 2017 order, asked the CBI court to add conspiracy charges against the accused in the trial.
 
 After the demolition of the disputed structure in   on December 6, 1992, two FIRs were lodged. While Crime No. 197 dealt with actual “demolition of the mosque by kar sevaks”, crime No 198 named Advani, Joshi and 13 others Sangh Parivar leaders for inciting the mob through their speeches.
 
 The trial on the basis of the first FIR started at the special CBI court in Lucknow, while the case against them began at a special court in Rae Bareli. Two of them — Ashok Singhal and Giriraj Kishore — died during the trial.
 
 On April 19, 2017, while ordering restoration of conspiracy charges against the accused, the Supreme Court ordered that both the cases should be clubbed and a composite trial should be held at the Lucknow court. It also asked the court to start a day-to-day hearing and finish it within two years. CBI counsel Lalit Singh told TOI that the SC directed the CBI to frame charges of conspiracy and added sections against the accused, including Advani. Following the SC order last month, the court summoned six accused — Nritya Gopal Das, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Baikunth Lal Sharma, Champat Rai Bansal, Dharma Das and Dr Satish Pradhan. Five obtained bail on Saturday, while Pradhan got bail on Wednesday.
 
 
