KULLU: The historic week-long Dussehra of Kullu started on Saturday after pulling the chariot of Lord Raghunath in presence of palanquins of over 250 deities and thousands of people.

 Kullu Dussehra, which is over 350-year-old and has become an international festival, is being celebrated at the historic   Maidan of Kullu. Meanwhile, Kullu has also become the home to thousands of people, including tourists who are witnessing the ancient tradition that has been preserved by its residents.
 
 Every year, the entire valley echoes with music of drums and trumpets and this continues for the next seven days. The colourful decorated palanquins carrying the idols and ornaments of deities throng Dussehra venue to pay their obeisance to Lord Raghunath (Rama), the presiding deity of the festival.
 
 The rituals start after arrival of palanquin of   in the morning and many other deities also come to Raghunath temple to pay their obeisance. The processions then come to Dhalpur maidan to start the rath yatra. The royal family of Kullu, dressed up in traditional attire, perform the rituals and rath yatra starts amidst a sea of crowd.
 
 This year, the Kullu Dus sehra committee has invited 305 deities to attend the festivities, while many other deities also attend the event without invitation. Following the century-old tradition, some deities come to the festival venue, while dozens of deities stay at a certain distance.
 
  of erstwhile Kullu state Maheshwar Singh, who is the chhadivardar (prime servant) of Lord Raghunath said, “Dussehra gives us an opportunity to see hundreds of deities gathering at one place and celebrate festivity together. This is a perfect example that how we have preserved our culture, traditions and art.“
 
  committee chairman   said strict security arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of the festivity. “We have marked special places for parking and vehicles entering district are being checked. All arrangements have been made for the comfortable stay of the followers of the deities. Cultural programmes will simultaneously run at  ,“ he said.
 
 Himachal governor  , who also witnessed the rath yatra inaugurated International Folk Dance Festival at Kala Kendra by lighting the lamps. Cultural troops from many countries and several states have come to perform here. A large number of tourists, including foreigners, have come to research on the unique Kullu Dussehra.
 
 As per historians, the idol of Lord Raghunath was brought from Ayodhya in 1651.
 
