 and   are on a whirlwind promotional tour of their Hollywood film, 'xXx: Return of   Cage'. After the film’s premiere in Mexico and London, they greeted fans in Mumbai recently. BT caught up with the two stars in a one-on-one chat and got them talking about their crackling chemistry and the deep friendship that they share. Excerpts...

 
 
 
 I don’t know if I can sum that up, but just the fact that Vin has been so generous, warm and welcoming gave me the confidence to do what I did. It is not a bond of friendship that is work-related, I know that he will always be there for me. I felt the same way about   when I debuted 10 years ago with 'Om Shanti Om'. 
 
 
 
 It is clearly a new relationship and I am so blessed to have it. Working with her was incredible and effortless. It was like that from the beginning. The first time we met (while auditioning for 'Furious 7'), everyone in the room felt that we had known each other for years. So, we knew that we had this wonderful chemistry from the very beginning, and I believe that chemistry is a valuable ingredient for any film. Deepika was just the perfect embodiment of the character ( ) and the message of our movie. She plays this formidable woman who is dangerous, tough and adamant about her beliefs, but does not relinquish her compassion. There is a similarity between Xander (Vin) and her and that was fun to play with. It’s great when you have a loyal partner in creating magic. I knew that this girl had my back all the way without fail. 
 
 
 
  There is so much more to the movie — along with the drama, adventure and romance, there is also a message. Serena and Xander are on a mission and they always have their guard up. One of our favourite scenes in the film is where the two characters have a real moment and start talking about life and philosophy.
 
 That scene from the story’s perspective was necessary because it serves as a catalyst for change in our characters. That scene inspires the heroism that is needed for this movie. 
 
  
  
 
