 is the current style du jour among the swish set. Here’s how you can look like a million bucks even after travelling a million miles

 Recently on a popular chat show, li’l Taimur’s mommy and unofficial godfather Karan Johar chatted about airport looks. Johar mentioned how the new mommy has a curated collection of 'airport looks'. In a nod to Western paparazzi culture, Indian celebrities are making sure whether they are entering or exiting the airport, their style quotient is as high as their frequent flyer miles. So Deepika Padukone steps off a long-haul flight looking like a glamazon, Kangana Ranaut kits out in designer ensembles and Sonam Kapoor has a travel style that’s feminine, fussy and full-on diva.
 
 
 
 What’s the point? Stylist and makeover expert Rishi Raj says, "In this age of social media when every move the star makes is being watched, the need to look well put-together all the time has become de riguer." The idea is to look "casually stylish" and not dressed-up, and that takes more prepping.
 Now, stars board the flight in a different outfit and step out in another, and make restroom pit stops to freshen up. Priyanka Chopra holds drinking water and moisturising as her in-flight priorities. She slaps on a facemask 15-20 minutes before landing to get a moisture boost.
 
 
 
 The key is not to overdo it. Raj says, "You are travelling, not meeting your future in-laws or Anna Wintour!" Keep it comfortable, breathable and active.
 Top picks: Layering separates. "But don’t put on old track pants or that ganji with the sauce stains. Since you are sharing a commercial flight with other people (unlike most stars), be thoughtful and wear clean and appropriate clothes," he adds. Don’t wear sunglasses inside the plane or outside in the dark. Think slip-ons (quick and comfy), stretch jeans or athleisure wear. Wearing print-on- print is a good idea, as it looks less crushed after a long flight. Do pack in a scarf that can help with a bad hair day, temperature drops or when you stain your tee.
 
 
 
 Deepika Padukone looks like a million bucks, but leather leggings worn with thigh-high boots can’t comfortable in-flight. 
 
 
 
 Sonam Kapoor is usually kitted out in ultra-feminine looks with boots and a big ‘it’ bag thrown in –comfy yet fashion-forward 
 
 
 
 Kangna Ranaut’s pin-striped drawstring pants paired with a blazer are a take on corporate chic but adapted for travel
 
  
  
 (Keep it casual, desi girl, cover up)
 
 
 
 You can’t go wrong with sneakers, denims with a duster coat a la Alia Bhatt. Pair with a pink bag for a flirty, fun look
 
 
 
 Kareena Kapoor Khan is serious about her airport looks. She rocks desi chic. But an all-white look isn’t a good idea for us plebs
 
 
 
 Priyanka Chopra’s travel look is functional yet fashionable – with a comfy sweater and a statement jacket for good effect
 
 
