No other article of women’s clothing has courted as much controversy as the   has in the recent past. While some term it ‘regressive’, others say it is a symbol of ‘oppression’. Strangely enough, no one seems to think it’s important that women are the ones who should have the final word on it. Hyderabad Times finds out what they have to say.

 
 
 
 
 I don’t wear the hijab because I am more comfortable without it. but if I decide to wear one tomorrow, I’d have no qualms. At international tournaments, I meet girls from Muslim nations who cover their heads, hands and legs and compete just like the rest of us. Meanwhile, I’ve been criticised for not wearing a hijab. It’s illogical. progressiveness or backwardness have nothing to do with what you choose to wear. I know a lot of girls who don’t wear the hijab but are still backward in their mind. How you think determines how progressive you are, not what you wear. 
 —  , karateka
 
 
 
 I wear a hijab because it’s my choice. It has never restricted me from thinking freely or living freely. Hijab covers my head, not my brain. It’s stupid to think that just because a woman wears a hijab she isn’t living a free, full life. 
 — Romana Safwath, student 
 
 
 Ihave immense respect for people who wear the hijab, especially those who make it a part of their lives, and not just wear it on and off. it all boils down to a woman’s choice. if she wants to wear hijab or burqa in any part of the world, she should be free to do so. I think, if a woman feels that by wearing a burqa she can avoid attracting sexual attention towards herself and demand respect for who she is, not for her body, then her choice should be respected. It’s progressive to say a woman deserves respect for who she is, not for what she wears. That’s why, even though I don’t wear one, when France banned the burqa, I voiced my opinion on canvas by painting a woman in the burqa in the backdrop of the Eiffel Tower. 
  —  , artist
 
 It was my personal choice to wear the hijab. There was absolutely no pressure from my family to do this. And over the years, I have also developed my own signature style of wearing the hijab. The women love it when they see me experiment with the scarves or matching my hijab with the latest trends. So if you say that clothing is an important part of self-expression, there is absolutely no restriction when it comes to my expression. Coming to the religious connotations, most people don’t know that the Quran is actually liberal and even feminist. In the Quran, a woman’s clothing or behaviour is referred to in Chapter 24, in two verses. In an-Nur (the Light), verse 30, Allah commands: “Say to the believing men that: they should cast down their glances and guard their private parts (by being chaste). This is better for them.” The second verse reads: “Say to the believing women that: they should cast down their glances and guard their private parts (by being chaste)…” So the rules are the same for both men and women; men shouldn’t even be staring at a woman. And today, we need courts to say that a man staring at a woman beyond 14 seconds is a violation. This is what was said long back. But the question really is not about religion, the point is that all women should be free to wear what they want to, whether it is a mini skirt, a burqa, a bikini. Why must a woman’s wardrobe become a point of debate? What is the need to scrutinise what a woman wears? This is the question that boggles me and I am sure all other women who are 
 out there. 
 — Dr  , social activist
 
 
  
 Hijab is the identity of a Muslim woman, yes, but then almost all religions mandate a woman to cover her head. Christian nuns use head scarves and Hindu women wear ghoongats. Even women who do not adhere to these customs daily, cover their head with the pallu or a scarf when entering places of worship. 
 I wear hijab to proclaim my faith. Why should it be anyone else’s business? people have this misconception that wearing hijab reflects backwardness or unprofessionalism. I don’t understand how! My life, my career, my potential have nothing to do with my choice of clothes. That’s how I choose to dress, and present myself to the world. I don’t have to pull off my hijab to prove my expertise. It isn’t holding me back from aiming for my dreams. It’s my life, my faith, my choice — and that’s nobody else’s business. 
 —  , educationist
 
 
 
 I don’t come from a family where it is mandatory to wear the hijab. I chose to wear it and have been wearing one since I was 18, because I felt like it. But it’s frustrating when people say things like ‘Oh! this must be your husband’s wish’ or ‘Aap ghar mein bhi dupatta pehenthey ho, toh aap father-in-law ke liye kar rahe hoongey shayad.” I want to scream out loud and say: ‘No! It’s my personal choice’. The need of the hour is to rid the world of this misconception that that everything women wear or do is only to fulfil some absurd need to be accepted by the opposite gender. I will wear a western attire if I feel like, or a burqa if I feel like, it’s a personal choice and it has nothing to do with the men in our lives! 
 —  , green activist 
 
 
 The hijab is like a skin I wear when I go out, I shed it when I am comfortable. I am a very private person, and my hijab offers me the choice to show my face only to the people I want to. I have complete control over my body; I decide when and whom to reveal myself to. I feel secure, empowered and confident in a hijab. And it’s my choice to separate myself from the world in this manner. A woman’s wardrobe doesn’t determine how progressive or modern she is. It’s a very personal choice and if my clothing reflects my religion so be it. A burqa is not a sign of oppression as it is made out to be. No individual or the society at large has any right to pass judgement on it, or anything else a woman chooses to wear or do. 
 —  , archivist of Chowmahalla Palace
 
 
