The 'hijabi biker' from Jamia Millia Islamia,  , is turning heads for riding high-end bikes and moving around the city in a hijab. Like Roshni,   Saifi is another name in  's theatre circuit, who is popularly known as the 'hijabi street play performer'. Sanya, a student of English (Hons) at Deshbandhu College, is part of the street play society of the college, and surprises many when she performs any role, as demanded by the script, in her kurta, jeans and a hijab. 

  "It was neither a revolution, nor a civil war. The terrorists were sent by the government and we want freedom from them. We want a peaceful Syria," she shouts out a dialogue while performing at the annual street play, Packers And Movers, directed by the theatre society of her college during a theatre fest. Sanya plays a political leader from Syria in the play. "It was based on the lives of refugees. Their number is the highest in Syria. We did not try to imitate any political leader, but tried to show that the lives of refugees matter too," she tells us after finishing her performance, adding, "When I started performing in the first year, people used to be shocked to see a hijab-clad street play performer. Initially, I used to feel a little different, but now, people know that I do street plays."
 
  She adds, "All those who see me performing for the first time react a bit differently, as I am the only hijab-clad performer in DU's theatre circuit. However, I think people respect me rather than questioning me for this. I remember, when I gave the auditions for the theatre society, the society members were whispering, 'Aaj tak koi bhi aisa nahi aaya hai' aur 'kya, kaise hoga'? I felt that I won’t be selected, but my mother told me to give in my best and not worry about the results."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Sanya adds that being covered in a hijab does not stop her from playing any character. "I feel safe and honoured by wearing my hijab. My team understands this completely. The timings for our practice sessions are also altered, so that I can offer namaaz. I think my hijab is a very powerful medium to show the participation of Muslims in our social lives," she says.
 
  "Since childhood, I wanted to get into this field. My family has always supported me, they never told me to not portray a particular character or do a particular scene. Last year, we did a play on homosexuality and I played the role of a taiji, who was in favour of homosexuality," she says, adding, "If the script demands me to do a particular scene, then I will do it. Agar hum nahi karenge toh kaun karega? Hum street wale hi kyun kahe jayenge agar kisi scene ke liye mana kar dein toh?"
 
 
