MUMBAI:   (ATS), questioning Aaves Shaikh, a Madhya Pradesh-resident, in connection with the proscribed outfit Islamic State (IS) case, released him on Thursday evening and asked him to appear again before investigators on Friday morning.

 Shaikh, 27, who is from Khargone, was brought to Mumbai on Wednesday morning for questioning in a case where Mumbra resident,  , had left the country to join IS.
 
 Shaikh's father, Zakir, arrived in Mumbai after hearing about his son's detention.He said, “The ATS officers are cordial and my son has been cooperating with them.“
 
 Shaikh, who did B Tech (electronics and telecommunications) and M Tech (thermal engineering) from Pune's  , is married to a Wadala girl. Zakir said he did not know who Tambe was.
 
 Tambe, who left India in December 2016, went to Egypt. From there, he went to Libya and allegedly joined the IS.Home department officials found that Tambe was arrested by the Libyan police and lodged in a jail there.
 
 “Four years ago my son lost his purse at Khandwa railway station in Madhya Pradesh. It contained a SIM card as well. He had registered a police complaint then with the Khandwa railway police,“ said Zakir.
 
 An ATS team found that last year an objectionable video was uploaded on the internet using the same lost SIM card. Sources told TOI that Shaikh had nine email IDs and was using six SIM cards.He would spend most of his time on a laptop. Police suspect he looked for stories about IS. Sources said one of Shaikh's email accounts was hacked by someone and used for anti-social activities.
 
 “My son has also told us that he knew who could have hacked his account. He has told the name of that person to the ATS. The cops are probing further,“ said Zakir. Shaikh's mother is a school teacher.
 
 Atulchandra Kulkarni, state ATS chief, said on Thursday that Shaikh's questioning was in process.
 
 Last October, the ATS had asked Shaikh's Mumbai-based in-laws to inform him to appear before the police.
 
 “We didn't know about it.Our Mumbai relatives didn't tell us about the police summon. Why would we delay if my son was asked to appear before the cops?“ said Zakir.
 
 
