Pune: Ilyas Shaikh runs a small poultry shop located near the end of Kakasaheb Gadgil Bridge, and he has lost count of the number of motorists who violate the   rule on the narrow, but vitally important stretch of the   starting at the end of the bridge, on a daily basis.

 “You can see there is a board which says it is a one-way. Vehicles are only supposed to come from the direction of the river. It is a small thoroughfare. It cannot handle so much  . But still people take a turn in this direction because it is a shortcut towards the Bhide bridge,” he said.
 
 But what about the police presence in the area? “Sometimes the traffic police are present to guide vehicles, sometimes they are not. Many people often zoom past the officers to avoid being caught,” he said.
 
 Due to traffic restrictions on two-wheelers on the Sambhaji bridge, the Gadgil bridge, Bhide bridge, the surrounding roads are heavily used by two-wheelers, and sometimes three-wheelers as well, hoping to reach the older parts of the city quickly. 
 
 Despite the restrictions to ease movement of the vehicles on the narrow roads and bridges, motorists treat them with disdain.
 
 “It is the same situation every day. There are small arguments and fights every day on the road because some people try to stop these motorists from driving in the wrong direction. There are often no policemen here, because they think they don’t need to manage traffic in a small lane. But they should look at the state of the situation here,” Sandip Waghe, who lives in the settlements nearby, said. 
 
 “People who are walking are getting hurt because traffic is coming in the wrong direction before they know it,” Waghe added.
 
 Local residents say the traffic police wait at the start of Bhide bridge to nab car drivers who take the bridge after coming from J M Road, even though entry of four-wheelers on the bridge is banned. 
 
 The local traffic police claim round-the-clock surveillance is not possible and they do book offenders.
 
 “We keep police personnel posted there for most of the day. Often they have to be directed towards operations to get rid of illegal parking, so police are sometimes not present. But we do our utmost to book people travelling on the wrong side,” JD Kalaskar, inspector of the Deccan traffic division, said.
 
 
