MUMBAI: Chief minister   has managed to paper over tensions with ally Shiv Sena by conceding key positions in the BMC, including the mayor's office and chairmanships of a slew of civic committees, to the latter. In the process, Fadnavis has managed to take the high moral ground, leaving the Sena a bit nonplussed after its vitriolic poll campaign last month. 

 A day after Fadnavis served the coup de grace,   remained tight-lipped on the issue on Sunday, but state environment minister Ramdas Kadam told mediapersons that Sena ministers have put away their resignation letters, indicating a tepid end to a stormy drama following the civic poll campaign when Sena ministers threatened to quit the Fadnavis government.
 
 Clearly, the Sena is in a chastened mood after Fadnavis pulled the BJP out of all elections to statutory panels, including the all-powerful standing committee, even while backing the Sena in the "larger interest" of Mumbai. While the Sena maintained a conspicuous silence on the matter, Fadnavis told mediapersons with a flourish that the Sena was very much with the BJP and that there was no threat to his government. The crucial budget session begins on Monday during which the state plans to table 23 bills. 
 
 "Matoshree wanted a big fight with the BJP for the mayoral election. However, Fadnavis stole the thunder from the Sena sails," said a key BJP functionary. Admitting that Fadnavis may have acted in the "larger interest" of his government while staying away from the mayor's March 8 election, the BJP functionary said, "But, the CM had little choice. He couldn't be expected to put his government to stake for the Mumbai mayor's office. A straight BJP-Sena fight would have exacerbated the crisis for the BJP.," 
 
 While offering the BMC to the Sena on a platter, Fadnavis has pacified   who, the BJP functionary pointed out, "can't think beyond Mumbai". "However, the CM has kept the transparency sword dangling on Matoshree's head by setting up a three-member committee of former IAS officials to suggest structural changes in the BMC and ensure transparent civic administration," he added. Much depends on how the Sena takes to the three-member panel and the CM's decision to appoint a deputy lokayukta to scrutinize the civic body's fiscal matters.
 
 The Sena is likely to hit back, both in the BMC and the state government, on the 'transparency' issue, thus adding to Fadnavis' woes, according to party sources.
 
 
 
 
