BHOPAL:   (AFRC) has decided to review fee structure in private medical colleges in the state. The committee has set February 14 as the deadline to send application for the colleges which were not happy with the fee decided by the committee earlier. For the first time, the committee has also allowed students to give their suggestions in this regard.

 AFRC had announced the fee structure for medical colleges for the 2016-19 session. However, seven private colleges were not happy with the decision as they felt that the decided fee was less than what they expected. They moved the appellate authority against the AFRC decision following which authority directed the committee to review the fee.
 
 The colleges that do not participate in the review process won’t be allowed to charge revised fee if it is announced later. Incidentally, last month students of a private medical college had alleged that they were beaten up by the administrative staff after they objected to the college’s arbitrary direction to pay an additional fee of Rs 4 lakh.
 
 Sources said several students had approached the committee complaining that private medical colleges were forcing them to pay extra fee. Sources added that students have been allowed to give their suggestions on fee to avoid any confrontation between colleges and students. “Suggestion from students will be important as they have to pay the fee. However, colleges’ concern will also be taken into consideration equally,” said a committee member.
 
 Incidentally, last month, first year students of Kolar-based Advance   (AIMS) had alleged that the college administration was pressurising them to pay about Rs 4 lakh extra besides the AFRC-recommended annual fee of Rs 5 lakh. The college had said that the additional fee was for amenities like library, infrastructure, hostel, mess and cultural activities. However, colleges had agreed not to charge any fee apart from the fee decided by AFRC after committee’s intervention.
 
 Around 150 students went on strike for almost a week. Parents and students had also met college administration. At that time, students had even alleged that when they demanded a receipt for additional payment they were threatened and roughed up on the college campus.
 
 
