Mumbai: Taking a lenient stand towards  , the   has decided to allow them to fill  , i.e,  , on their own. Institutes can charge a maximum of five times the merit quota fee. 

 The decision was taken at a meeting on Tuesday and it overturns the earlier stand that 100% admissions would be conducted by the state. Only undergraduate medicine (MBBS) admissions would be done entirely through the centralized admission process of the CET cell. 
 
 “This year, the Indian Medical Council has said that 100% seats must be filled through the centralized admission process. No other council says that,” said Dr Praveen Shingare, head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research.
 
 While the state wanted to be legally cautious, medical institutes are thrilled at the decision. Colleges offering dentistry, physiotherapy, unani, homeopathy, nursing, occupational therapy, etc. will be able to admit 15% of students on their own. “We have been allowed to charge up to 5X the fees of the merit seats and that will let us offer better facilities,” said a trustee of a deemed university. 
 
 Meanwhile, a total of 60,685 candidates have registered for the state’s centralized medical admission process and 45,679 paid up the admission process fee. 
 
 The   has altered the admission schedule for states. Government bodies and cells that are conducting the MBBS and BDS admission have to follow the uniform time table. The MCI has now introduced a mop up round after the two rounds conducted by the Directorate General of Health Services for the all-India quota and for admissions to deemed universities. Similarly, there will again be a mop-up round after the state governments’ two rounds of admissions. 
 
 Dr Shingare said, “This is for the benefit of students so that there is convenience while taking admission as there is more time to report to the colleges.” He added, “The mop up round will also ensure that fewer seats go vacant.”
 
 The first round across states will be till July 15, instead of July 13 and the second round till August 7, again a two day extension. 
 
 The first phase of state admission is over. “Now the second phase starts from July 12 and we will put out the first state merit list,” added Dr Shingare. 
 
 
