NAINITAL: Newly elected Uttarakhand state assembly has 22 MLAs with criminal cases against them, two of them with serious charges of murder and dacoity. Out of the 70 MLAs analysed, 22 (31%) MLAs have declared criminal cases against themselves. During Uttarkhand Assembly elections in 2012, 19 (27%) MLAs had declared criminal cases against themselves.

 Total 14 MLAs in the assembly are with serious criminal cases which makes it 20% of the total count in the state assembly. These MLAs have declared serious criminal cases including murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery and many more.
 
 Earlier, in 2012, out of 70 MLAs analysed during Uttarakhad Assembly elections in 2012, 5 (7%) MLAs had declared serious criminal cases against themselves.
 
 Elected representatives who have cases of murder against them include the name of  ,   MLA from Gadarpur constituency in   district and Rajkumar Thukral, BJP MLA from Rudrapur constituency from the same district.
 
 Pandey has total 12 cases registered against him and is top of the list. The charges on him include Murder (IPC Section-302, dacoity (IPC Section-395), voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty (IPC Section-332), causing grievous hurt (IPC Section-325) and criminal intimidation (IPC Section-506).
 
 Thukral too has serious charges against him including that of Murder (IPC Section-302), Attempt to murder (IPC Section-307), robbery (IPC Section-392) and Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house (IPC Section-436) among others.
 
 Ganesh Joshi, BJP MLA from Mussoorie of Dehradun district, associated with infamous Shaktimaan horse injury and death has two cases registered against him with of House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint (IPC Section-452), Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty (IPC Section-354), criminal intimidation (IPC Section-506) among others. Interestingly, he is also being slapped with charge related to Mischief by killing or maiming cattle.
 
 Party wise MLAs with criminal cases include 17 names out of 57 MLAs from BJP, four out of 11 MLAs from INC, and one out of two Independent MLAs who have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits.
 
 Similarly, MLAs with serious criminal cases include 10 MLAs from BJP, three MLAs from INC and one Independent MLA.
 
