LUCKNOW: Narrow-minded approach as in not allowing Dalits to enter temples kept the centuries-old   from spreading the way it deserved to, said Leader of Opposition  , speaking in the Assembly on Tuesday. “On the other hand, Islam which is only 1,500-year-old spread all over the world as its place of worship doesn’t discriminate,” said Chaudhary. 

 He hit out at the treasury benches for targeting Muslims by closing slaughterhouses. In villages, even cattle from Muslim households are stolen, as if they have no right to domesticate cows and buffaloes. “If at all the   government is an advocate of cow conservation, it should stop meat export from India and Centre should make a law on cow slaughter,” said Chaudhary, adding that around 40% Hindus eat non-vegetarian food and meat is even offered to Goddesses in temples. 
 
 Without taking names, he blamed BJP and said had it not been for demolition of  , Ram temple would have been ready by now. The LoP gestured towards the treasury bench and said, “Congress (during its regime) had got the locks of the Ram temple (in Ayodhya) opened.” 
 
 Former prime minister late Rajeev Gandhi even got the foundation laid, said Chaudhary, adding: “But you all (BJP) jumped in and the temple could not be constructed.” Chaudhary didn’t stop there and went on say that as a Hindu he too wants a grand temple to be built. “But because of you all, the Babri Masjid was demolished and the dispute deepened further,” said Chaudhary. 
 
 Chaudhary also alleged that the BJP government had completely failed on law and order front and cited statistics from newspapers to prove his point. He said not only men, even women are on a chain-snatching spree in this government. “Today, body of an IAS officer was found,” said Chaudhary. 
 
 He said an MLA each from BJP and Samajwadi Party got threat calls and anything can happen in this government. 
 
 The LoP also raised the issue of the insult meted out to two MLAs. He said not only did the police conduct raid at the house of BSP MLA Vinay Shanker Tiwari and his father ex-minister Harishanker Tiwari it even humiliated a ruling party MLA in Gorakhpur district. 
 
 Chaudhary also mentioned the government had launched an enquiry into the Gomti Riverfront project and Lucknow-Agra Expressway. “Nothing will come out in the enquiry,” he claimed, adding that 40% land for Purvanchal Expressway had already been acquired, so it’s time for BJP government to show what they can do. 
 
