COIMBATORE:   2017, a cattle fest dedicated to   cattle, saw a huge crowd of farmers and public, including students and youngsters on the second day. With their mobile cameras, the youth were capturing the glimpse of the Kongu cattle in display at   near Pollachi.

 The second day of the show organised by   had a variety of cattle including- Kangayam Mayilai, Kangayam Vandikalai, Kangayam bull, Kangayam Sevalai, Kangayam Kaari, Umbalachery - Thanjavur and also other animals like horses, goats and camel.
 
 Muthiah S, 29, from Perambalur who runs pet farms in Trichy said that he had come to the cattle show to understand the type of Naatu Madu (native breeds) in TamilNadu. He said, "I am interested in dairy farming and I plan to start a venture in this field soon."
 
 An engineering student Sakthi Thas, 22, from Salem said that he was amazed by the variety of cattle that his native land has. "I am surprised to know that Konguland has such a rich variety of cattle and I got to learn so much from spending just one day this cattle fest," said Sakthi, who was urged to visit the fest due to the recent protests against the ban on the bull-taming sport, jallikattu.
 
 On Saturday, a beauty show was conducted for the Kongunadu cattle. A team consisting of cattle experts, veterinary doctors was among the panel members judging the beauty contest. 
 
 According to organisers, the beauty show had several categories based on the age of the bull. The cattle were divided into the following categories: Kangayam female calves less than 2 years; Kangayam male calves less than 2 years; Kangayam- Mayali (white)- 2 to 4 years;   and Kari 2 to 4 years; Kangayam- Mayalai(white) more than 4 years; Kangayam- Sevalai(Brown)- More than 4 years; Kangayam- Kari(black) more than 4 years; Kangayam- Vandikalai- 2 to 4 years; Kangayam- Vandikalai- more than 4 years; best Kangayam- bull.
 
 About 500 cattle took part in the beauty contest which has been organised for the third time in the region. "The motto of the event is to save the native cattle breeds and involve youngsters to spread awareness. Around 40 stalls with agricultural equipments, cattle products and tractors, were also at display at the fest."
 
