KOCHI: The   has lashed out at Kochi corporation for failing to revoke the   as well as   given to  , even one year after the high court had rejected a petition by mall owners, challenging the fire and rescue department’s decision to not issue fire NOC to the building. 

 A few days ago, local fund audit department had sent a letter to the corporation authorities to file an affidavit on why they failed to revoke the occupancy certificate given on the basis of the interim order even after the HC gave its final verdict dismissing the petitioner’s plea. But the corporation authorities neither revoked the occupancy certificate nor filed an affidavit on why they couldn’t revoke the occupancy certificate.
 
 Kochi corporation secretary Haritha V Kumar said she had instructed the corporation authorities to take action on the basis of the local fund audit department’s demand. Though the audit department sought the explanation or action a fortnight ago, the civic body authorities have not done anything yet.
 
 The fire & rescue department authorities had denied fire NOC for Centre Square, citing that no ‘assembly units’ (where people assemble in large numbers like cinema halls and auditoriums) could be allowed above 30m height. If assembly units were allowed beyond 30m, rescue operations in case of an emergency would not be possible, they contended. Then the mall owners moved the court challenging the procedures of fire & rescue department. Kochi corporation was one of the respondents in the case. In an interim order, the court stayed the proceedings of fire and rescue department and ordered Kochi corporation to give provisional occupancy certificate until the final settlement of the case. Though the case was disposed of almost a year ago after fire & rescue department submitted before the court that the building was constructed flouting Kerala Municipal Building Rules, the corporation authorities did not revoke the provisional occupancy.
 
 As per the local fund audit department, there is no provision in the rules for granting temporary occupancy certificate. The local body authorities could have informed the court about this, but they did not brought the issue to the notice of the court.
 
 Meanwhile, the mall owners filed a clarification petition pleading that the court should order Kochi corporation to issue cinematography licence to one of their clients to run multiplex from 6, 7 and 8 floors of the mall. Then the court pronounced an order that “the local body is free to give cinematography licence” to the multiplex. Then the corporation sought legal opinion from one of its empanelled counsels. The legal opinion was that the court hadn’t asked the local body to give cinematography licence. The counsel also advised against giving the licence. Still, the civic body issued cinematographic licence.
 
 
