After having done “quite a few bad films”,   decided that she didn’t want fame or money, and sought out only good movies. When the chance to act in Adarsh H Eshwarappa’s   came by, she knew that she wanted to be a part of the film thanks to the strong storyline. As the film gears up for release this week, the actress spoke to us about the movie and more….

 
 
 A friend of mine referred me to the team. After meeting them, I asked for the script and was surprised when I received it in 10 minutes, which is unheard of. I liked the script and during the discussions with Adarsh, it was clear that he was sure of what he was doing — it was like he had the whole movie in front of his eyes. That, and the fact that all the actors are from the theatre background, clinched the deal for me. I had no idea that theatre was a training ground for acting. But once I got into the field, and watched world cinema and interviews, I figured out that any good actor across the globe is a theatre actor. The kind of variation they bring into each character and their approach is very technical, and requires a lot of skill, which you get from theatre. Acting on stage and in front of the camera are two different ballgames, but the technique is common, which you get from theatre.
 
 
 
 Jyothi is a journalist, who is very motivated and focused. She is not bothered about having a man in her life and doesn’t want to get married. She directs street plays to raise awareness, and writes books — she’s very pro-active and gets things done. In real life, I differ from Jyothi, since I am not as focused she is and, unlike her, I love having guys around (laughs). But like her, I am also not interested in getting married. I always dreamt of being a journalist, so I enjoyed essaying this role.
 
 
 
 I am changing every day; I am aware that I am evolving every moment and everything that happens is a part of my growth process. So, in that sense, the working process helped me evolved and made me who I am today. Right after wrapping up the shoot in Gokarna, I faced harassment in Goa, which struck me hard since I had to deal with such an incident right after having worked on a movie on a similar topic.
 
 
 
 When I am shooting, I try and stay in character from the previous night of the shoot itself. That lasts through the time that I am shooting. This is why, during the shoot, I don’t like to talk to people, chill and then give a shot. But, once it’s over, I come out of it quite easily. I constantly soak up the world around me, so that helps. 
 
 
  
 
 
 The scenes in the film were quite intense, for which we rehearsed at Adi’s (Adarsh) house. Jyothi speaks a lot about the laws for women in the film, so I had to study those and research many cases that are mentioned in the film. So, in that way, I am more aware now. 
 
 
 
 I remember that Adarsh would wear the same T-shirt every day. It was one with a print of the Joker from The Dark Knight. That gave me the impression that he was a very hardworking guy, who didn’t even have time to change his clothes. It was only later that I found out that he had the same T-shirt in 3-4 different colours. Apart from that, Adarsh’s mother used to cook for us every day and send food to the set— her food was one of the best parts of the whole shoot (laughs).
 
 
 
 I have been reading a few scripts, but there is nothing very interesting. I have done quite a few bad films in the past, and more than the actual outcome, the whole process of shooting was a torture. I entered the film field without any guidance. Initially, it was nice as I met the right people and did a few decent films. But then you start getting all kinds of advice, one of which was to change my name to Smitha. People tell you things like you need you need to be in ‘circulation’, due to which I did 2-3 bad movies that turned out to be disasters. That took a toll on my peace of mind, and in the process I realized that I never wanted fame or money. I am blessed that my basic needs are taken care of, so I am not keen on being seen all the time. I am happy roaming on the roads and having churmuri by the roadside. I have been recognized as a decent actor in the film industry, but at the same time, no one recognizes me on the streets, and that is what I want. 
 
