NAGPUR: As the state government has refused to go ahead with a farm   plan,  , an activist now appointed as chief of government task force on agriculture, said the move would have largely benefited farmers in flourishing pockets only. Tiwari who had been raising the issues of farmers’ suicide from   since two years heads the Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM) working on farmers’ welfare. Lately,   chief Arundhati Bhattacharya had expressed her views discouraging waiver.

 Tiwari said out of Rs30,500 crore of the defaulted loans to be waived, nearly Rs22000 crore are from the flourishing pockets. These are in regions like  , such as the grape belt of Nashik and the sugar cane growing areas, where there is assured irrigation. There are some pockets in east   too, he said. 
 
 Barely one-fourth of the amount will go to the farmers in the distressed districts of Vidarbha and  , where there is a real crisis. This is because the scale of finance for the crops like cotton and soybean grown in these areas is meagre to take the loan size bigger, he said “Rather steps should be taken to increase the bank credit coverage and increase the income of farmers in such regions,” said Tiwari.
 
 However, Tiwari agreed that the number of farmers in Vidarbha and Marathwada is half of the 4 million in the state who may have benefited if the waiver was approved. 
 
 The farmers who account for majority of the amount of loan to be waived are engaged in growing, cash crops like grapes, sugar cane, floriculture apart from having, allied activities like dairy farming, he said.
 
 The number of defaults has gone up even in the flourishing areas too since the mega farm waiver of Rs70,000 crore during the UPA Government. This means it cannot be ruled out that income from farming needs to be increased, said Tiwari.
 
 In areas like Vidarbha where it is largely dryland farming, hardly 30% of the farmers are covered under bank finance. This means the scope of lending needs to be widened. Unless the number of farmers in such areas are covered under bank finance, waivers would end up in only a gimmick.
 
 Tiwari said this year there are plans to coordinate with banks to start farm lending from April and finish it by mid May. At the same time, a plan needs to be drafted that farmers in the dryland areas should get credit for at lest five years in a row despite any eventualities. Unless the farmers’ income is not increased the repaying capacity cannot be built, he said
 
 The state government had declined the proposal to waive farm loans on the grounds that the funds can be utilized for other sectors of the society.
 
 
