Much before   became Gurugram, the first Gurugrammers arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from south Delhi. Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a   identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the fifth part of our new weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers

 Here’s something to ponder. The man behind the success story that is The Beer Café began life in Gurgaon at the time of prohibition. Back in 1996, a tipple was hard to find. Now, thanks to folks like Rahul Singh, the city’s fizzing with options. Rahul and   Singh moved here a year after getting hitched. A decade on, they moved closer to nature, closer to the promise of a good life. Today, the Singhs have no regrets, for Gurgaon’s given them plenty of wonderful memories. Like the birth of their son, Maadhav Veer. And those occasions when, a little high after a party, they would partake of a particularly tasty midnight biryani, at a city hotel.
 
 Early years – in a marriage, in a new town
 
 Bineeta: Rahul taught me how to drive on Gurgaon roads. We’d come down from Delhi in a rickety Fiat, and on the way have lunch at ‘Colonel’s Kababz’ in Ghitorni – we still remember what we ordered, still remember the taste! Same thing with Bisque, the bakery in Central Arcade in DLF Phase-II — their fried chicken and sizzlers still taste great!
 
 Rahul: We did struggle for staff, like helps, maids, gardeners, drivers – there was none back then. Now you have plenty. Also, when we moved, we moved to a Haryana whose government had enforced prohibition. So when we wanted to invite friends over, they would protest — why should we come to a dry place?
 
 We’ve seen Gurgaon grow – there was a time when the highway was like a war zone! When we came here, there were only two places – 32nd Milestone, and The Village Café (on what was then a sleepy MG Road). A little later came Gymkhana Club, where we had such a great time. Now, it’s like Delhi comes to Gurgaon.
 
 Paradise awaits
 
 Rahul : We stayed 10 years in DLF Phase-II but almost every night in the summers there would be a power cut. So we moved to Nirvana Country in 2007, when the house wasn’t ready – we were one of the first residents in the colony.
 
 Bineeta: Cobbled roads brought us here, to the back of beyond. But we were in the middle of nature, an environment we wanted our son to grow up in.
 
 Nature’s backyard
 
 Bineeta: I have green fingers, so I would go to the nursery in Sikanderpur to buy plants. And you know when they say you have hair coming out of your ears? Well, I had plants coming out of the car! And when I would enter the Nirvana gate, the guard would smilingly wave me in.
 
 There are many bird species here: sparrows, hummingbirds, robins, partridges, koels. So many that we’ve given them names! We have seen peacocks grow – one night, we saw them sleeping, balanced on the branches of a tree. It was quite a sight! And the birds, they’re our alarm clock – the koels start singing at 4:30 am!
 
 A city looking for an identity…
 
 Rahul: Gurgaon doesn’t have any heritage. It also doesn’t have its own cuisine, a dish that the city is known by – and no street food. Another thing that’s missing is public parks – the parks that are there are maintained privately.
 
 …But welcoming to strangers
 
 Bineeta: Gurgaon does positive things to people. When they move here, there’s a change for the better in their personality.
 
 Rahul: The city fosters a spirit of community in people, and you see that in the running and riding groups here. And Raahgiri, too, is an example of that. There’s an ease of living here. ‘Gurugrammers’ see the glass as half-full or half-empty – we think this glass is certainly refillable! I don’t think Delhi would’ve made us happier, because there’s too much clutter there, too much claustrophobia.
 
 Bineeta: Besides, we get to spend time in the company of peacocks!
 
 
