GURUGRAM: In the next 15 days, all private schools in the city will have to implement at least the basic   and submit a self-certification to the district administration.

 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Tuesday issued an order to this effect under Section 144 of CrPc that makes it legally binding on the schools, amid increasing concerns over the safety of children in schools in the wake of the killing of seven-year-old Pradhyumn Thakur in Ryan International School in Bhondsi earlier this month.
 
 For the time being, the district administration wants all the private schools to adhere to at least eight basic safety norms — as mandated by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Haryana School Education Act — within the next fortnight.
 
 These include formation of   committee that will include two parent representatives, procurement of valid fire safety certificate and fire-fighting equipment in working condition, separate toilets for non-teaching staff, sufficient number of CCTV cameras on the campus and presence of female attendants at toilets of small children.
 
 Schools have also been asked to ensure that there are ramps and special toilets for children with special needs, GPS and CCTV cameras and female attendants in school buses, and police verification of non-teaching staff.
 
 “There is a sense of panic and tension among the parents due to the incident that happened at Ryan International School, Bhondsi, and hence it is important that safety points in schools in Gurugram are taken on priority basis and these arrangements are to be made by the schools so that the hesitation of the parents can be sorted out,” reads the order.
 
 After the expiry of the deadline, the district education department will conduct a safety audit of each school to verify their self-declaration. The district education officer is the enforcing authority and any violation of the deputy commissioner’s order is punishable under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code that carries a prison term of three months.
 
 Earlier this month, the district administration had held a seminar at the Mini Secretariat that was attended by representatives of over 300 private schools in the city. There also, Singh had asked the school authorities to implement safety guidelines, including installation of CCTV cameras, and keeping an ambulance and a trained nurse on the campus to deal with any medical emergency.
 
 
