CHENNAI: The  , that put Chennai in the bottom half of the   at a distant 235th, embarrassed the city corporation again although Trichy saved   the blushes by being the   in the country.

 In the survey, Coimbatore scored 1650 out of 2000 and was ranked 16th. Kumbakonam entered the top-50 spot at 37 while Erode was 42nd . Twenty eight cities and towns from the state participated in the survey which entered its third year.
 
 Though Trichy slipped from third to sixth, it secured a top-10 rank due to the overwhelmingly positive feedback from its residents and continued efforts taken to collect, process and dispose solid waste.
 
 Nearly one-third of Tamil Nadu’s cities and towns were ranked in the top 100. This included Madurai (57), Tambaram (62), Tiruppur (68), Hosur (82) and Velankanni (84). Another municipality in the Chennai Metropolitan Area, Pallavaram (155) and Avadi (169), ranked higher than Greater Chennai Corporation. 
 
 Abysmal solid waste management once again spoiled the city’s chances to move up the rankings. Chennai scored a meagre 46 out of 200 in the solid waste processing and disposal category.
 
 The poor showing shocked corporation officials. “Anybody who has been to Varanasi, the Prime Minister’s constituency, would not say it is cleaner than Chennai,” said a senior corporation official. Varanasi is ranked 32. “The survey gives 40% weightage to solid waste disposal which is unfair in a rank list comprising bigger and older cities, and newer towns and municipalities. Places like Trichy do not know what it is like to deal with the problem of legacy garbage,” the official said.
 
 Environmental activist Nityanand Jayaraman said Chennai was not too different from other metropolitan cities when it came to handling of solid waste. “The methodology (of the survey) seems complicated. But which other city is closer (than Chennai) to cracking the code to efficient solid waste management?” he said.
 
 While the survey said 10% of posts for conservancy staff were vacant, Thirugnana Sambandan, director of Ramky, which handles solid waste in three zones in the city, said no amount of coverage would be sufficient unless source segregation takes place. “We have about 30,000 conservancy workers for more than 80 lakh people. The numbers don’t match,” he said.
 
 Sambandan said increasing the number of conservancy workers will not be affordable either. “The cost of handling per tonne of garbage stands at more than Rs 3,000. Hiring will increase costs and the corporation cannot afford it,” he said.
 
 However, environmental activist Shweta Narayan punched holes in Sambandan’s logic. “Treating solid waste management as a commercial activity is failing the city. Because, if the system is where you pay a contracted party money per tonnage, then he/she will be against the idea of source segregation. It is against the company’s business interests to reduce the tonnage through segregation,” she said.
 
