Dilli ki ladki  , who was here to promote ' ', misses Delhi's street food in Mumbai. Often asked if she is from Meerut, she explains to us that Meerut is actually her nani's home. While in the city, she tells us that she is going to visit all her favourite food joints and shopping destinations. She also shared the secret of staying slim despite being a foodie.

  
 It's been 4-5 years since Falaq's entire family moved to Mumbai. She says that since they have moved, she comes to Delhi only for professional commitments. She says, "I really miss Delhi a lot. I miss the street food, which no other street food of any state can match. Yahan mujhe chhole kulche khane hai, golgappe khane hai, aur haan, Chicken Changezi bhi khana hai. Mumbai mein paani puri kaafi khayi hai, but they put hot chhole in its water, which makes it hot. I want to have thanda thanda golgappe ka paani in Delhi."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Like any Dilliwalla, along with being a foodie, Falaq is also a shopaholic. She says, "I used to live in Laxmi Nagar and would visit Lajpat with friends. Maine suna wahan se street vendors ko hata diya gaya hai. Kitna accha toh saaman dete thay woh log. We used to get affordable and stylish stuff from these vendors. Also, Connaught Place mein shopping ka apna alag hi maza hai. My best friend stays in Delhi, and he takes me to all these places."
 
  
 Born and brought up in Delhi, Falaq is often asked if she’s from Meerut, to which she says, "How can a person be from two different places? In my growing years I have always been in Delhi. My schooling is also from Delhi. Only during holidays or family functions we used to visit Meerut, as it's my nani's place. I miss going there now. But many people ask me if I am from Meerut because they read it on the internet, which is irritating because it's not true. It creates confusion among people about me." Though she's always been a Delhi girl, she doesn't deny her connection with Meerut. She adds, "There are many places in Meerut that I miss. We used to go to Meerut's Abu Lane where we get chhole ki chaat and ice cream with pineapple coating. But my favourite was Ghantaghar ki lassi."
 
  
 Despite being a foodie, Falaq has a fit body, which she says is not a result of heavy gymming. She believes in eating healthy and having cheat days once in a while. She tells us, "I keep telling people ki khaane se mote nai hote, but we should keep a check on what we are eating. Bachpan se jo hum paranthe khate hain, in breakfast, are not unhealthy. Drinking lots of water helps in making metabolism stronger, and therefore I drink at least 3-4 litres of water every day. Apart from this, I have green tea, which is a healthy alternative for other drinks that have sugar or caffeine. And once in a while, cheat days toh chaltein hi hai!"
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
