SURAT: Surat city is likely to face severe water crisis of different kind. It may not face shortage of potable water, but are likely to get poor quality of water in the next few months if the   (SMC) does not act fast. Tapi river is the main source of potable water for the city with population of about 50 lakh.

 There are multiple factors affecting the quality of water in the Diamond City. These include low water level of 4.8 m at weir, algae growth in the Tapi river, the main source of water for the city, rise in temperature and less amount of water released from Ukai dam. Waste from 26 sewerage lines rleased into the Tapi river is also a major concern.
 
 The water quality has been affected in some part of the city in February itself. If the situation remains the same, in summer the water quality could deteriorate further. 
 
 SMC has already planned to clear the algae and also requested Ukai dam authorities to release water and maintain level of 5m at weir. 
 
 Last week, residents of   area complained of getting stinking water in their houses. “Though the water is not harmful, nobody would like to drink stinking water,” said said P D Munshi, engineer of hydraulic department at SMC. 
 
 The problem has arisen because of less rains in last two years, less supply from Ukai dam and change in temperature,” he added . 
 
 “Less rain has led to a situation where we have not been able to open 16 gates of weir since last two years. As a result large amount of bacteria and other organisms are present in the reservoir. This also adds to the problem,” said Munshi. 
 
 “There are a number of cattle sheds near Katargam water works and waste from there is released into river regularly. This polluted water goes into the intake well when levels of water drop at the weir and as a result quality of water is affected,” said an official from SMC’s hydraulic department. 
 
 SMC officials said that Ukai dam authorities have promised to release enough water to maintain waster level of 5m at weir-cum-causeway. 
 
 On Wednesday, the level was 4.66 m and is expected to touch 5m in couple of days. SMC has also deployed four machines to remove algae from the Tapi river surface. 
 
 
