Puducherry: Former Lok Sabha member and former director of  ,   on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Union human resource development ministry to appoint a regular   for Pondicherry University.

 One of the five founding professors of the university, Ramadass, in a memorandum addressed to Modi said the vice-chancellor post fell vacant on August 17, 2015 — more than two years ago. The ministry appointed a vice-chancellor in-charge in place of a regular vice-chancellor.
 
 The ministry placed advertisements for the vacant post on August 21, 2016. The search committee met on March 29 this year and recommended a panel of five candidates to the ministry, for the perusal of the President of India. The President, who is the visitor of the university would select a candidate from the panel for the post of vice-chancellor. The Union government has not selected a vice-chancellor six months after the committee recommended the panel, said Ramadass.
 
 “Ultimately, the university remained like a rudderless boat without a proper academic leader for more than two years without direction and purpose. It is quite intriguing and puzzling that your government, which functions on the principles of alacrity in decision-making, accountability, transparency and responsiveness is dragging this appointment beyond a limit of public tolerance,” he said.
 
 Ramadass regretted that the university, which recorded a phenomenal growth over the years under the dedicated and dynamic leadership of competent vice-chancellors, has now been downgraded as a ‘non-performing university’.
 
 He said almost all statutory positions of the university and many faculty positions remain vacant. “The executive council, the supreme body of the university, reverses its own decision within hours to suit the convenience of individuals and sometimes directed to take wrong decisions thereby losing its sanctity,” he said.
 
 Ramadass urged Modi to direct the minister concerned to take initiatives in appointing a scholar-turned-administrator with impeccable integrity, credentials and character as the new vice-chancellor of the university.
 
 
