On Bengaluru’s very busy streets that are bursting at the seams with its over 67 lakh vehicular population and often see people spend hours together enroute their destinations, it is not surprising to see many of them kill time on a telephonic conversation. In fact, according to a recent report, a whopping 83% of Bengalurean motorists use a   while on the move.
The statistics seem alarming, given that using a mobile phone while   is a  . Software professional Zebia Thomas, for instance, is often on official   during her long commute from JP Nagar to Bellandur, while she is at the wheel of her car. “I have always been particular about using a hands-free device to make and attend calls. Recently, when I upgraded to a new car, it offered me the option to sync my phone via bluetooth to the music system, which was even better, as the controls are on 
 the steering wheel. As a rule, I do not check any kind of messages while driving, even when I am stuck in traffic jams, but I believe that using a hands-free device to make and receive calls is relatively safer,” she says.
 Banker Adarsh Padmanabhan goes one step further. ‘I have an app that reads out messages for me. While I can’t reply using the app, it allows me to either call the sender, or send a response at the next traffic jam or signal,” he says. 
 Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic )  , however, avers. “Mobile phone use of any kind, be it attending calls or  , with or without a hands-free device is a punishable offence and should not be done, as it will divert the driver/rider’s attention. When on the move, the driver/rider’s full concentration should be on driving and a phone conversation is a potential distraction. If it is imperative that you have to attend a call or send a message, pull over to the side of the road, finish your business and then proceed. This applies for two-wheeler riders as well, who are often seen nestling the mobile phone inside their helmets.” 
 While traffic cops have been pulling up errant drivers frequently, the fact that a first-time offence calls for only `100 fine, and subsequent offences only `300, is not seen as much of a deterrent, adds Hithendra. “If we are to ask every violator to pull over, pretty much every cab driver in town will be in violation. We are currently in the process of creating awareness about not using mobile phones while driving and, once the amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act are ratified, we will look at hiking the   multifold, to the tune of a few thousands,” he signs off. 
 
 
 
