PATNA: The   (AAI) has begun groundwork for the extension of   (JPNI)’s terminal building following the Bihar government’s conditional approval for transfer of land for the same.

 The bidding process for selection of project management consultant, which would prepare the design for the extended terminal building, has started. The construction work is likely to start from June.
 
  director Rajendra Singh Lahauria told TOI on Thursday the two-storey swanky building would have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. The new building will also have provision for six aerobridges for the flyers to board flights from the first floor.
 
 Chief minister   has approved the transfer of around 13 acres of land around the   to the AAI for the purpose. The AAI has agreed to hand over 11 acres of land in Aneesabad to the state government in lieu of the land near the airport.
 
 The airport director said the land transfer formalities would be completed after the central cabinet’s nod for the same. “The AAI HQ has sent a proposal to the central government. While we are expecting the Centre’s approval soon, the state government recently gave us conditional approval to carry out the groundwork,” said Lahauria.
 
 As per the plan, three hangars will be developed at the Bihar Flying Club, including two for the state government and one for the flying club. The existing state hangar near the airport will be subsequently demolished for the AAI to develop part of the new terminal building on the location.
 
 Once the work on phase I of the terminal building is completed, passenger operations will be shifted to it and the existing terminal building will be demolished for construction work to begin on phase II of the new terminal building.
 
 In this regard, a meeting of the airport users consultative committee was convened on Tuesday to take feedback from stakeholders on the terminal building extension. The meeting was attended by representatives of private airlines, oil companies, district administration, Bihar Industries Association, Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries and India Meteorological Department.
 
 
