PANAJI: Inquiry officer in the  , Srinet Kothwale, after conducting a site   has found the presence of illegal, large-scale   on the controversial land government, sources said on Monday. 

 Kothwale has also prepared a preliminary report in the case after perusing the 100-odd files that he seized from the office of the comunidade on Saturday, the sources added.
 
 “Hotels, mega projects, auto centres, large hotels, etc, have come up on Serula comunidade land, all of which are illegal,” Kothwale has written in his report post his inspection of the said land of the Serula communidade on Saturday, sources said. 
 
 In his report on the seized files, Kothwale has stated that he has found document forgery rampant and that most files are missing. 
 
 The inquiry officer also found that around 5,000 plots were allotted on the comunidade land. “Temporary possession is on one name while the plot is occupied by another person,” the inspection report stated also pointing out to incidents of plot allotment to non-resident Goans.
 
 Additionally, the site inspection has revealed that while some plots have been occupied only in the last two years, documents show that the same were allotted 15 years ago. Moreover, open spaces have been ulitilized for illegal construction.
 
 Kothwale, who has been tasked with probing whether plots belonging to the comunidade were fraudulently allotted to individuals, has to submit his report within six months.
 
 As per the terms of reference for inquiry, Kothwale will have to ascertain whether the allegations made in various writ petitions involving the Serula comunidade are true as also check for any lapse or non-compliance of norms or procedures while allotting plots belonging to the comunidade, from Liberation till 2011.
 
 The government has further instructed Kothwale to find out how many portions of land belonging to the Serula comunidade are lying vacant as against those that were legally allotted, and whether the derramas (tithes) were regularly paid to the state.
 
 
