BELAGAVI: Markandey river, known as the lifeblood of Belagavi taluk, has become toxic as the sewage water of Belagavi city is being released into the river.

  The 45km stretch of the river originates in Bailur village and passes through Hindalaga, Uhagao, Kallehol, Ambewadi, Kangrali KH, Alatage, Kadoli, Kakti and other surrounding villages. Farmers who have their fields on the banks of the river are thankful to   for taking up desilting work under MNREGA scheme and constructing bridge-cum-barrages every 5km along the river so that water can be stored. This helped in reactivating open wells and borewells on the river banks.
 
 The drinking water problem of villages has also been resolved as the water sucked from borewells on the riverbed is supplied to villages to meet drinking water needs. But the sewage water that is generated from the urban areas, including Sahyadri Nagar, Hanuman Nagar,   and  , and chemical-contaminated water from the Hindalaga industrial area are being released into the river which has highly polluted water that is too toxic for use by villagers. 
 
 Till December, the river had appeared normal. But when villagers tried to store the water at the barrages, it was found to be polluted. It also smelled bad and looked greenish. The water in the river cannot be seen because of algae.
 
 Since villagers are using water from wells that are situated near the river for drinking and other purposes, skin and digestion-related symptoms have become common. Farmers are also scared that vegetables grown in the fields around river might turn toxic as the river water is being used for irrigation. 
 
 Ramesh Katamble, a farmer from Kadoli village, said, “Sewage water from city is being released to the river for many years now. We are not getting good yield and this water is also turning toxic. Corporation should adopt water treatment plans to recycle the sewage water.”
 
 There is risk in releasing drain water into the river and the possibility of spreading water-borne diseases is high. Hence, it was decided to treat the sewage water and release it into the river, said DC N Jayram. 
 
 
