It was always fireworks whenever   (Miss United Continents 2016 2nd Runner-Up) and veejay   locked horns on 'Bigg Boss Season 10'. The two never got along barring the last leg of this edition. Even the makers couldn’t stop themselves from cashing in on their rivalry by pitting them against each other and showcasing the highlights of their fights during the finale dance performance.
Lopa says, “Our thinking didn’t match, and it caused friction at times. Everybody behaves differently. I respect Bani and want everybody to do so. It’s not that she is bad and I am good or the other way round. We are both strong personalities and sometimes, things just don’t work out. It’s not that we have any hard feelings towards each other. Let’s end the topic now that the show has ended. I don’t hold a grudge against anybody; I believe in moving on.”
 Bani adds, “I have nothing against Lopa personally. She is a wonderful girl. I just don’t know her that well. We were pitted against each other during the tasks and the makers also played up the fact that we didn’t get along, which instigated it further. She has understood me a bit now; I couldn’t make her understand me during the show.”
 Many differences have been resolved outside the house. Do they expect the same to happen to them? “I don’t want to maintain rivalry or friendship with her. Let’s see if time changes our equation,” answers Lopa, while Bani says, “That’s pushing it a bit.”
 Ask Bani if it feels bad to lose to a commoner ( ) and she replies, “I hate such discrimination. I was a commoner too, when I entered the industry. Even now, I am a normal human being; it’s just that my job requires me to be in front of the camera. I have never considered myself a celebrity. I have my own nakhras, but an aam aadmi has even more nakhras and tantrums than any celebrity. Now that they are also so-called celebrities, Best of luck, India! You have made them celebrities and now you’ll have to handle them. I call myself the people’s champion.”
 Meanwhile, Lopa says, “I am a little disappointed that I couldn’t win, but I am glad that I reached top three. I am proud of myself for making it so far. I want to pat my own back for the amount of patience and perseverance I have shown. There are no regrets and I am happy that Manveer won; he deserved it. I would have been happy for Bani too, but Manveer was more deserving. He put his heart and soul in the game, and his involvement was commendable. He has been a good friend and his victory feels like my own. He is a nice soul.”
 Many felt that Bani was a quitter, especially during tasks. She says, “When you participate in a reality show like 'Bigg Boss', outsiders can’t fathom what you go through. People might have felt that I wasn’t completely involved in tasks, but the truth is, I let go when I felt that was the best thing to do. It’s important to let go at times; winning is not the most important thing in life. The journey is important as well.”
 We also witnessed Lopa getting emotional after former 'Bigg Boss' contestant   accused her of being nasty towards Bani and not showing sportsman spirit. “That was Mandana’s point of view and that needn’t be the reality. I respect her and uski soch usse mubarak. Had I been in her position, I would have gone all out for the contestant I supported too, but without putting the other person down. I don’t care about what she said. I am sensitive and I do feel hurt, but that’s how all girls are,” she signs off.
 
  
  
