BENGALURU: Many private schools in the city have expressed their reservations over the measles-rubella immunization drive undertaken by the Karnataka government. The drive was formally launched on Sunday.

 The government has asked all private and government schools to ensure that the children are administered the MR-VAC in the course of the three-week drive. However, private institutions said that the government had failed in taking the message to the public. 
 
 "Parents have expressed some concerns about the vaccine. Their complaint is that the details of the immunization drive have not been explained clearly," said Mansoor Ali Khan, a board member of Delhi Public School and general secretary of Managements of independent  .
 
 He opined that the state government must first work towards creating awareness among the public, before launching a drive on such a massive scale.
 
 "We are not against the programme as such. But, there is no publicity material to put up on our websites or notice boards.The government has not given us all the information about the programme to us. Consequently, we are unable to answer doubts raised by the parents," said Khan.
 
 Ratna Kumari, whose son is studying at a private school at Rajajinagar, said, "How can we be sure if the paramedics who will administer the vaccine have been trained adequately? What are the side-effects of taking the injection, if any? What is the procedure that needs to be followed before the child takes the medicine? These questions have to be answered before my son is vaccinated."
 
 However, government schools have not raised any objections to participating in the drive.
 
 Both the government and private assocations are trying to convince management boards of private schools to participate in the drive. "Programmes have been lined up to create awareness among the general public. Private schools should cooperate with the government, and ensure that the children are vaccinated. It’s their social responsibility," said Shashi Kumar, general secretary of   and Secondary Schools in Karnataka.
 
 He added, "My association has reached out to around 700 private schools across the state. They have agreed to join the campaign against eradicating these two diseases."
 
 Karnataka is home to more than 18,000 private schools, of which over 1,000 are affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education.
 
 Principal secretary of the health department,   said that adequate safety measures had been taken to carry out the immunization drive successfully. "There’s no reason to be worried. Nurses and the accredited social health activists have been trained for the programme. We have successfully carried out immunization drives against small pox and polio," Rajneesh added.
 
 Senior doctors too moved to allay fears over the vaccination. "It’s absolutely safe. There are no major side-effects. Reports that the vaccine leads to paralysis are utterly baseless," said Dr Bhaskar Shenoy.
 
 
