THIRUVNANANTHAPURAM: Outgoing   president  , on Thursday, asked the state government to reverse its stand to allow bars and beer-wine parlours along national and state  .

 “The decision based on the advice of attorney general (AG) is a challenge to the judiciary,”he said in a statement released here. Sudheeran reminded the LDF government that AG Mukul Rohatgi was the lawyer of bar owners who had challenged previous UDF government’s excise policy in the Supreme Court.
 
 “The SC had ruled that all   outlets along national and state highways should be closed down. The AG has raised the strange argument that the ruling is not applicable to bars and beer-wine parlours. It is in favour of his former clients and against the sanctity of AG’s office,” said the Congress leader.
 
 On Wednesday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had informed his cabinet colleagues that the government should go by the advice of the AG. During the cabinet meeting that discussed the postponing the new liquor policy till the Malappuram byelection gets over, Vijayan had said there was no need to shift beer-wine parlours and bars along NH and state highways. He had also quoted AG’s advice that the   was meant for outlets selling liquor and not for hotels and bars.
 
 Sources said the cabinet agreed on the decision to shift all Bevco and Consumerfed outlets selling liquor on main roads, 500 metre away from current location, and if needed, police help would be sought.
 
 The government plans to relocate all liquor outlets on NH before March 31. G Sudhakaran, who took has the charge of excise department in the absence of minister T P Ramakrishnan who is on leave, would initiate the steps for the same.
 
 Sudheeran alleged that the state government withdrew from its earlier move to seek clarification from the SC following serious setback. “Instead, the government now cites AG’s wrong advice to do things as it pleases. This is part of a tacit understanding between the government and bar owners”, he said.
 
 He termed the move anti-people and cruel, intended to act as protectors of liquor-drug mafia. “The government is obliged to protect women and children of the state from the clutches of drugs and liquor mafia,” he said.
 
 
