PATNA: The three-day Bihar   celebrations concluded at Gandhi Maidan here on Friday with hundreds of people thronging the venue to witness the closing ceremony.

 Governor Ram Nath Kovind, who was the chief guest on the occasion, talked about rich culture and history of Bihar. “Bihar has been the land of Vishwamitra and Chanakya. The great Mauryan empire which extended from Magadh (present day Bihar) till   was set up here by Emperor Chandragupta Maurya. It is the land of Gautam Buddha and Guru Gobind Singh. Vaishali, the birthplace of democracy, is here. Two of the world's oldest universities – Nalanda and Vikramshila – are also in Bihar,” Kovind said.
 
 He added, “Bihar Diwas brings all the Biharis in the world together. I would like to request the government to extend the three-day   celebrations to a week and name it ‘Bihar Sthapna Saptah’. The pavilion of   shows that the state is moving forward towards development. The human chain formed on January 21 this yeat in support of prohibition portrayed the willpower of the people of the state to join a social cause.”
 
 The governor applauded the efforts of the water resources department in organising an exhibition on water purifying to test arsenic and iron levels. He also appreciated the structures created to commemorate the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran satyagrah. 
 
 Education minister Ashok Choudhary said the state government tried its best every year to make the Bihar Diwas celebrations better. “The credit for quick appointment of VCs goes to the governor. In a very short period of time, he held a meeting with the counsellors of   to quickly appoint the VCs,” Choudhary said. He added the state government is trying the revive the rich history of Bihar so that the state could once again be known as the education centre of the world. 
 
 RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and his sons – Deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav – were nowhere to be seen even on the closing day of the celebrations.
 
