PATNA: Showing ‘unusual bonhomie’ during the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh on Thursday, PM   and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar shared lighter moments and praised each other over the prohibition issue. While Nitish recalled how Modi, as Gujarat CM for 12 years, continued with the strict   in his state, the PM greeted Bihar CM for taking the “courageous” step towards “social reform”.
 
  Nitish was the only CM in the country to openly support the PM’s decision to demonetise old Rs1,000 and Rs500 notes after November 8. Sharing the dais at Gandhi Maidan, Nitish talked about the positive impact of liquor ban in Bihar and appealed to the PM to implement it across the country as it would take India to a new height.
  
  In his address, the PM lauded Nitish and asked people to make prohibition a grand success so that Bihar could inspire the entire country. “Prohibition is a social cause and it’s implementation is not only the government’s responsibility. Everyone, including political parties, social workers and common people, should support it to make it successful,” PM said.
  
  PM also hailed Nitish and his government for making the   event a grand success. “I came to know that Nitish ji personally supervised the preparations and visited Gandhi Maidan several times to ensure the grand success of the ceremony. I thank him and the people of Bihar for organizing this grand event at Patna Saheb, the birth place of Guru Gobind Singh,” the PM said.
  
  Modi, however, did not miss the opportunity to convey his government’s commitment to making Guru Gobind Singh’s Prakashotsava a grand success in India and abroad. “The Centre, through its embassies in other countries, has organized Prakashotsava celebrations across the world. Ministry of tourism has spent Rs100 crore on the celebrations across the country. Besides, ministry of railways and ministry of culture have spent Rs40 crore each,” he said.
  
  After paying obeisance to Guru Granth Sahib at the Darbar Hall specially constructed for the occasion, PM welcomed the devotees in Punjabi and talked at length about the life and teachings of the tenth Sikh Guru and the sacrifices he made for the mankind.
  
  “Guru Gobind Singh is a symbol of sacrifice. He sacrificed his father, four sons and then dedicated his entire life to protecting the people of this country. Guru Gobind Singh made the supreme sacrifice when he decided to end the ‘Guru Pratha’ (system) by establishing   and telling his followers that only Guru Granth Sahib would inspire them in future,” said Modi.
  
  While trying to strike a chord with Punjab, Modi said one of the first Panj Pyares in the Khalsa Panth set up by Guru Gobind Singh at Anandpur Sahib was a tailor from his home state Gujarat.
  
  Modi also released a special commemorative stamp on the Prakashotsava. CM presented a big photo frame of Guru Gobind Singh to the PM. Other dignitaries present on the stage included Bihar governor Ram Nath Kovind, Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, Union minsters Ravi Shankar Prasad and Ram Vilas Paswan and   chairman Avtar Singh Makkar.
