VIJAYAWADA: As many as 801   in the state have incurred the wrath of the   (BIE) which has sent notices to them for violation of its norms. 

 According to B Udayalakshmi, secretary of BIE, no admissions were witnessed in at least 280 colleges in the past three days. "Notices were sent to 324 colleges which have less than 50 students. As many as 197 colleges were found to have violated the norms related to hostels," she added.
 
 The BIE is examining the replies from college managements, Udayalakshmi said and disclosed that most of them are not satisfactory. "We are still examining the replies and given the 'excuses' the managements are making, most of the 801 colleges will be facing strict action from the BIE in the next two weeks," Udayalakshmi made it clear.
 
 Udayalakshmi explained about an innovative partnership with the   which has proposed to provide professional training for Intermediate students. The trust has agreed to offer training to 210 Intermediate students for X-ray Technician, Operation Theatre Technician and Cardiothoracic Technician courses.
 
 Interested students can send applications to the   (DVEO) and the one-year course would begin from June 1 at three centres - Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati. Students from all subject backgrounds can apply and the selection is on first come first-serve basis, she said.
 
 According to her, the students would get a four-month training followed by on-the-job training at various hospitals and are guaranteed placements. The fees of the course is Rs 1,500 and they would be given free accommodation as well. Once the student gets placement, he has to pay Rs 75,000 to the trust in three interest-free instalments. 
 
 Talking about employment opportunities for students of vocational courses, the BIE officials said that, starting from May 9, mega job melas are being held across the state. "Around 40 companies will participate in the job melas and on Tuesday, Rajamahendravaram alone saw 144 recruitments. We have to see to it that the minimum pay would start at Rs 15,000," the secretary said. 
 
 According to sources, the job mela is scheduled to be held in Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Nellore and Kadapa and on May 10 and in Chittoor district on May 11.
 
 The BIE released the time-table for Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary Examinations that are scheduled to begin on May 15 and conclude on May 23. Supplementary exams for ethics and human values and environmental education subjects would be held on May 29 and 30 respectively. Practical exams are scheduled to be held between May 24 and 28 including on Sunday.
 
 
