In November, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had opened a dedicated hawker zone in Sector 38 market as a pilot project, and announced the expansion of the plan to more markets in the coming months. In January, the   announced that nine more markets – including the Sector 56 HUDA market – would have hawker zones. 

  However, even as the deadline for the setting up of the hawker zones is almost here, the plan to do so in Sector 56 has run into trouble. Shopkeepers in the market say that not only is the plan harmful for their business, but also against the Supreme Court guidelines about hawkers. They maintain that they won’t let the MCG start the hawker zone and if their demands aren’t met, they will go on an indefinite strike against what they call "an unfair imposition". Hawkers, however, say that food trucks and   have always been present near the market and the MCG is just trying to regulate the practice. MCG officials say that the plan is not against any apex court guidelines and that the work will continue as planned.
 
 
  
  After shopkeepers in Sector 56 market (right) protested the upcoming hawker zone, the kiosks for the zone have been kept in a vacant area near the parking lot
 
 
 
  
 Late last month, the shopkeepers in the market protested when MCG officials came to install kiosks for the hawker zone. For now, the MCG has placed over a dozen kiosks in a vacant area near the market’s parking lot, but protests from the market association have meant that the project has been delayed by a few weeks. 
 
  Ravi, a Maggi seller in the market, says, "Hawkers will sell what we do, but at lower prices. They will get kiosks for a cheaper rate, so they can compete in terms of prices. The visitors will also prefer a dedicated zone, so the shops will suffer. The zone shouldn’t be this close to the market." Lt Col (retd)  , president of Sector 56 Market Association, adds, "We have invested a lot of money over the years in our shops and businesses here, and these carts will eat into our business. We can’t compete with their prices either. We support the MCG's idea, but they need to reconsider the location. There is vacant land nearby that they can use, but not the market area."
 
  The shopkeepers have also objected to the MCG's plan of using the market’s parking lot for the hawker zone. "The market already lacks basic facilities and encroaching on the parking area will only make things worse. This will reduce footfall, as visitors will have fewer parking spots left, with half the space taken up by the hawkers," says Mahesh, a shopkeeper.
 
  The market association has also raised questions about the legality of the move, saying it is against the guidelines set by the Supreme Court. Raghbir Singh elaborates, "The Supreme Court has dictated that no hawking should take place within 150 metres of any municipal market. The zone selected for hawking here is not even 50 metres from the market. That is in clear contravention of the SC guidelines." The shopkeepers have said that if the MCG does not listen to their demands and goes ahead with their plan, they will shut down the market and go on an indefinite strike.
 
  
  
 Hawkers say that kiosks and food trucks are already there in the market, and a dedicated zone will only be good for the market
 
 
 
  
 The hawkers are puzzled by the market association’s opposition, and say that food trucks and hawkers have always been present near the market, and it is not a new development. Amit, who runs a kiosk near the market, says, "Apart from hawkers, there are also a few food trucks that come to the market in the evening. Don’t they eat into the business of the shops? The MCG is just trying to regulate a practice that already exists. I don't understand why the shop owners have a problem with that."
 
  Several street hawkers say a regulated hawker zone will actually help the market. Sunil Kumar, who had run a paan kiosk near the market for 12 years, tells us,"The market association is creating an issue out of nothing. It doesn't affect them as much as it affects us. The zone will increase competition for us, not the shops. But we are okay with it, because if the market is regulated, more people will come here. For years, shopkeepers have complained that there is no infrastructure in the market with regards to cleanliness and facilities for visitors. Now, the MCG is doing that with the hawker zone. There will be toilets, benches, and even CCTV cameras. This will only help the shopkeepers."
 
  
 Despite the market association's protest, the MCG is in no mood to relent. Not only have they rubbished all allegations of not following the legal procedure, they ensure that the hawker zone will come up in Sector 56 just as planned. Vivek Kalia, joint commissioner, MCG, says, "These allegations are baseless. All rules are being followed in setting up street hawking zones. The initiative has been running smoothly in Sector 3 and 34, where it has not harmed the interests of the shopkeepers. It won’t do so here as well. The hawker zone will come up as planned."
 
 
