HYDERABAD: Forget suspended   in the air, now heavy metals, some of which are  , have been found in road dust, threatening to jeopardise the health of city residents.

 Samples tested by the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) record the presence of about a dozen harmful metals in Hyderabad’s air. Most of the metals are highly toxic with a couple having radioisotopes, or an unstable combination of neutrons and protons, that are dangerous to human, animal and plant health.
 
 The NGRI team collected 32 road dust samples from six industrial areas of the city. After analysis, they found heavy metals like copper, zinc, chromium, cobalt, lead, nickel, vanadium, zirconium, caesium, yttrium and hafnium. Of these, caesium, yttrium and hafnium are known for their radioisotopes. The researchers published their findings in the recent issue of the international scientific journal Environment Monitoring and Assessment. 
 
 High levels of heavy metals in the air are most pronounced in industrial areas that dot the city landscape. These areas also have to deal with the usual dangers of suspended particulate matter from fine bitumen, cement and granite dust. 
 
 The NGRI team has described the presence of harmful metals in city dust in industrial areas as a matter of “major concern”. They warned that exposure to polluted dust “significantly affects the health of people residing in these areas”.
 
 Among other reasons for the presence of heavy metals in the air are damaged roads. In recent rains, many roads across the city were damaged which increased the levels of dust and making the presence of these metals ubiquitous. 
 
 The study revealed that the road dust samples had “significantly high mean metal levels”, far above their natural presence in the soil. Among the metals identified in the city dust, zirconium is present in highest quantity. This is followed by zinc, lead and chromium. Hafnium is present in lower levels in the city atmosphere.
 
 Some of these metals are present in combination. For instance, the team noticed that copper is present with zinc, chromium with nickel, caesium with vanadium, yttrium with caesium and hafnium with zirconium. “This shows that their origin is from common anthropogenic (human) sources. The study confirms to an intensive anthropogenic impact on the accumulation of heavy metals in the road dust attributable mainly to strong influences of vehicular and industrial activity and partly to domestic and natural processes,” said the study, emphasising the need for further research to find out the “ecological implications and human health risks”.
 
 
