Lucknow: Farm  , availability of power in rural areas and an ordinance on slaughterhouses are likely to be on top of the agenda of the government when its holds its first cabinet   under chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday. The ruling party, which will hold its first cabinet meeting 15 days after taking charge, faces its first major test of fulfilling the promises it had made before the people of the state before elections.

 Although there is no constitutional compulsion of convening the cabinet meeting within a certain period, it has been a tradition that as soon as the new government is formed, the ruling party convenes the meeting witnin a week or so. But this time, while Yogi was sworn in as the new CM on March 19, the first cabinet meeting is being held on April 4.
 
 The major hurdle in calling the cabinet, say sources, has been the ruling party’s promise that if it was voted to power in UP, the decision of writing off the farmers’ loans would be taken in the first meeting only. Now that the promises appeared to have worked wonders for the party, and it came to power with a record mandate, there was a big onus on the government to fulfill the promise, they say.
 
 The Yogi government, therefore, has been burning midnight oil since it was formed on March 19 on working out the modalities to implement its election promise of loan waiver for the farmers. As per an estimate, there are about 2.3 crore farmers in UP and more than 90% of them are small and marginal among them, says chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar . “If farmers get as complete waiver on their crop loan, the state government would have to bear a burden of around Rs 62,000 crore,” Bhatnagar told TOI, adding that the government was negotiating with the Central government also on the issue.
 
 Speaking to TOI, finance minister, Rajesh Agarwal had said that the government was definitely committed to fulfill its election promise of loan waiver to farmers, but it will be only in Bundelkhand where loan dues of all the farmers would be considered while for the rest of the state, the government will take final decision after deliberations.
 
 Meanwhile , the finance minister visited Delhi to discuss the issue with Central government authorities and sources say that some understanding has matured between the state government and the Centre. The BJP-led NDA government at Centre , too, is working very cautiously on this issue which may have far-reaching consequences as any package or relief to UP farmers by it might trigger a similar demands especially in other 15 states ruled by BJP and its allies.
 
 The other issues the first cabinet may take up include increased power supply to farmers and an ordinance for slaughterhouses. The state is witnessing a strike by meat traders for over a week against crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses and meat sellers. The Cabinet is expected to bring some clarity in rules and regulations to run slaughterhouses to end the deadlock.
 
 
