Kottayam: Around 60 students of the   (SME) of the MG University here staged a protest strike on the terrace of the three-storied building of the SME regional centre in Puthuppally on Monday evening. 

 The students were protesting against the move by the government to close down the institute. The students after entering the building around 3.30pm closed the front door from inside and entered the terrace. Thereafter they closed the door to the terrace too. The students stood there for nearly two hours. The fire and rescue unit was stationed at the spot to meet any emergency. 
 
 Later, Kottayam MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan arrived at the spot and urged the students to come down for talks. The students agreed to the request. “The MLA talked to the health minister over the phone. The MLA promised us that within a week a meeting of the University authorities of the MGU and KUHS and representatives of the teachers and students of the SME will be held in the presence of health minister”, said Pushpa R, regional director the SME.
 
 "We want either Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) to take over the institute or allow the MG University to continue the courses of the SME," said Abhiram, a student. The Mahatma Gandhi University started the School of Medical Education in 1993 to fulfil the ever-increasing demand for trained professionals in the area of allied health sciences. Apart from the main centre of the SME near Medical College Hospital here, it has eight regional centres.
 
 “The government has recently directed the institute to stop taking new admissions from the next academic year. The KUHS had also hinted that they will not be issuing equivalency certificate to the students. This has made the future of over 4,000 students studying in various centres of SME uncertain,” said Regi Ram, director of SME. According to him one of the main reasons cited by the KUHS in cancelling the recognition is that the institute does not have a hospital of its own. “The majority of the students here are from financially backward families. After the completion of the courses most of them land up with jobs abroad,” said Reji Ram. “There are many private institutions in the field of allied medical sciences which does not have any proper infrastructure but own hospitals. Compared to them the SME is one of the best institutes in the state,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, MG University vice-chancellor Babu Sebsatian has assured all students who got admitted to the SME till 2016 that they will not have to face any issues. A special syndicate meeting of the university will be held on January 17 to discuss their issues.
 
 
