Mumbai: Saamna, the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece, on Friday praised the reign of the   over the last six decades and contrasted it with the regime of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 

 In an editorial which sent shock waves through the  , the   mouthpiece lauded Indira Gandhi for severing Pakistan into two in the 1971 war, and Rajiv Gandhi for ushering India into the telecommunication age in the 1990s. 
 
 “Even if we accept that the Congress committed some petty theft, the fact remains that the party led the country on the path of economic and industrial progress ...At the time of Independence, India couldn’t even manufacture a needle...What changes has Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought about in the country with all the brute majority he enjoys in the Lok Sabha is the key question,” Saamna said and slammed Modi for his “raincoat” barb at former PM Manmohan Singh.
 
 Recalling that within 24 hours of the assassination of Ravindra Mhatre, India’s diplomat in the UK, by a terrorist group, Indiraji ordered the execution of Kashmiri terrorist Maqbool Bhat. “By doing so, Indiraji told the world in no uncertain terms that she would not yield to terrorism. Indira Gandhi laid down her life for the country,” said Saamna.
 
 Saamna paid handsome compliments to Rajiv Gandhi for laying the foundation for the information technology era in the country. The Bofors scandal may have blotted his copybook, but Rajiv was determined to give a clean administration to the country, said Saamna.
 
 Heaping some more praise on Congress PMs, Saamna said both P V Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh strove hard to resuscitate India’s economy during a critical phase. “If all this wasn’t done (by Modi’s Congress predecessors) then the PM would have been left to rule a banana state such as Rwanda and Somalia,” Saamna added.
 
 In a Q&A session with Saamna on Friday, Sena president Uddhav Thackeray accused the BJP of reducing Mumbai’s strategic importance in a bid to clip the Sena’s wings.
 
 “There are plans to take Union government offices out of Mumbai...Similarly, trade and commerce too is being shifted elsewhere and the mercantile community is being provoked to do this,” said Thackeray, adding, “They know very well that Sena's strength stems from Mumbai. So, the strategy is to scuttle Mumbai's power and importance.”
 
 Thackeray ruled out possibility of reconciliation with the BJP. “Not at all. It’s not possible,” he remarked when Sanjay Raut, the executive editor of Saamna and MP who conducted the interview, asked if the Sena would be willing to mend its ties with the BJP. Thackeray advised the BJP to keep its feet firmly fixed in the ground.
 
 
