NAGPUR:   (earlier NMRCL), which is adopting latest technologies for executing the   project, has now set up an academy to train its staffers. The building information modelling (BIM) academy will teach the staffers to use this modern project management software. It has been set up in collaboration with US-based Bentley Institute that specializes in this software.

 Addressing the inauguration function,  , managing director of Mahametro, said, “This is the very first project in the entire India and   a new concept for the country. The project has its own complications like formulation of thought, design, final selection and many more that can be managed with this software.”
 
 Dixit also said the main purpose of the academy was to impart knowledge in Nagpur as of now but in future it will expand in other cities, specially Pune. He further said 5D BIM implementation for   project was in the final stage and it will go operational next month. “Metro projects in two cities, Nagpur and Pune, will get direct benefit from the academy,” he added.
 
 Completion of any project on time and within estimated cost is itself a dream for so many companies. “After a long time Nagpur has got this big project and we will now deliver it on time so people are benefited,” Dixit added.
 
 Chief guest Deepak Pathak, professor of IIT-Powai, said the concept of 5D BIM was new and never attempted anywhere in the country. “There is tremendous requirement for education in Metro field. Students should take advantage of this academy as in coming years metro projects would be built in many cities and there will be demand for people trained in this,” he said.
 
 Vinayak Trivedi, global head of Bentley Institute, Bentley executives David Robertson, Dejan Papic and S Goswami, BIM experts Upagupta Patnaik and Kaushik Chakravarti also spoke.
 
 MoU signed for Wifi
 
 Mahametro has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Reliance Jio for provision of 4G seamless Wifi facility in Metro stations as well as trains. Reliance will provide this facility free to Mahametro. The commuters will be able to use Wifi for free up to a certain limit. They will have to pay up for any further usage.
 
 “It is a seamless service, which means that if a commuter enters the train from the station, his Wifi connectivity will not be disturbed,” Dixit told the media.
 
