
  
 
 
 
 For any theatre and TV actor who has done some substantial roles on both these fronts, shifting to grueling TV hours can be a little difficult to handle at first. But for noted actor   an interesting and untouched   is all it takes to take up TV assignments. “I’m really happy to be part of   as the concept is different and the story gives out small yet significant life lessons in various episodes, which is organically weaved in the storyline, and not preachy at all.” Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Firstly, I loved the storyline and very few showmakers have tried doing something on this subject. The subject revolves around a father-daughter bond. Going forward the story is about how the father, a simple peon’s struggles to make sure that all his dreams to give his daughter a good education and secure future are fulfilled. Interestingly this show is set in Haryana where women’s education is not given much importance. We are hoping that the story will bring in some difference in the society.
 
 
 
 If the audience like to see shape shifting snakes and flies on screen, then the makers will make such content. After a point the viewers would like to see something that they can relate to rather than watching the same old   being rehashed.
 
 
 
 As an actor I enjoy the challenges that every medium has attached to it. I’ve enjoyed each and every medium of acting and learnt many new things. However, theatre will always be my first love as my journey started from there. When it comes to TV’s reach one can see a lot of changes and the widespread effects of the same. 
 
 
 
 TV’s reach is tremendous. There was a time when people won’t think of working on TV if they wanted to join films. But now TV stars have a huge fan following and many are realising their B-town dreams even while working on TV. 
 
 
 
 I would love to work in Gujarati movies for sure. In fact just a couple of days back, I had been approached to work in an upcoming Gujarati movie but I couldn't take up the role as I’m busy with my new TV series. But I hope to work in Gujarati cinemas soon. 
 
 
