MUMBAI: One of the most poignant images that emerged from the debris of the illfated   was that of a woman tightly clutching her three-monthold daughter in her arms on the staircase. Most of those who perished in Tuesday’s building collapse at Ghatkopar were in fact women and infants, who were at home while other   had either left for work or gone to school.

 But Tuesday’s tragedy also threw up a miracle, as the fire brigade found a man alive in the debris more than 12 hours after the collapse. Lalit Thak (45), whose three-month-old daughter Renuka and wife Amrita (35) perished on the staircase while trying to run out as the structure collapsed, was among the few people inside the building at the time of the crash to survive. The third-floor resident, who had run towards the terrace in the melee, was inconsolable as he realised his entire world had crumbled in seconds. The Shahs, a 10-member joint family which lived on the fourth floor, also lost two members in the crash, Ranjanaben Shah (62) and her granddaughter Rutvi Shah (14). Nikita Vora, a relative, said Ranjanaben’s sisters rushed to the spot on hearing the news of the crash. Her grandsons survived the tragedy as they were away in school. However, the fate of her daughters, sons and daughters-in-law could not be established.
 
 Sinika Khanchandani, a paediatric dentist at Nair Hospital, who lived on the same floor, returned half-way from work accompanied by her colleagues on hearing of the crash. Her father Kishor Khanchandani (52), brother Mikul (20) and grandmother Sulakshana (80) died while her mother Riti was in hospital. 
 
 Eyewitnesses from neighbouring buildings said there was a loud sound when the building crashed and they heard screams for a minute but it was followed by a numbing silence. 
 
 B M Kapoor, who lives in the nearby Shanti Niketan complex, whose compound wall was demolished to quickly remove the debris, said the entire area was covered in a dust storm when the structure crashed. “Had it fallen in a slanting manner the adjacent buildings would also have been affected,” he said. Some survivors said they felt tremors in the building late on Monday night and decided to determine its cause the next day. Locals claimed   of Siddhi Sai had warned Shiv Sena leader Sunil Shitap many times against demolition of the building’s pillars in the ground-floor clinic he owned. However, the ward officer said the BMC had not received any official complaint on the matter. 
 
 The fire brigade continued to search for survivors late into Tuesday night, an operation officials said was hampered by the fact that they lacked specific information on the number of residents present in the building at the time. Fire brigade officials said search cameras, cutters were being used in the operations. The BMC made temporary arrangements for residents of the building at some nearby municipal schools, where facilities like water and food were provided. However, most victims opted to stay with relatives nearby.
 
