KANPUR:   and its Rajya Sabha MP   on Thursday jointly campaigned for the party's candidate here with Dimple urging the people to “ensure SP victory in Assembly election as it will set the tone for 2019   poll and decide the fate of Uttar Pradesh“.

 “If you consider Akhilesh your `bhaiyya' (brother), then I am your `bhabhi' (sister-in-law). Therefore, you should keep the word of your `bhabhi' and vote for your `bhaiyya' to make him the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh again,“ said chief minister's wife Dimple while urging the people to vote for SP at a rally on Race Course ground in Naubasta of Maharajpur assembly seg ment in support of party candidate Aruna Tomar.
 
 “In the 2012 elections, you voted your Akhilesh Bhaiyya to power and ensured the progress of the state.The government fulfilled all the promises made to the people during the last Assembly election. Women Helpline number 1090 has provided help to six lakh women in the state. Age bar for women in government jobs will be lifted and we will connect one crore women with pension scheme and provide them with Rs 1,000 as pension if you vote your Bhaiyya to power again,“ said Dimple.
 
 “You vote us back to power and we will take forward the task of developing the state in the next five years,“ Dimple said amid loud cheering and spontaneous slogans like “no confusion no mistake, only cycle only Akhilesh“.
 
 “While students were offered laptops, girls were given Kanya Vidya Dhan. If SP comes to power, we will give smartphones to the poor so that they could connect with the government straight away and know about schemes launched for them,“ she added.
 
 Attacking the opposition parties, Dimple said, “While the opposition targets the SP government on the issue of law and order, the CM has ensured that policing is high-tech. By dialling 100, police reach the doorstep of the complainant within no time.“ Taking a jibe at BJP, Dimple said that lured by the success of Dial 100 police service of UP, BJP governments of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra also wish to adopt it.
 
