Thane: After over a year of citizen agitations, political rhetoric surrounding the toll issue and shelling out of over Rs 3,000 crore to the toll contractor at three toll posts ---Mulund, LBS Road and Dahisar— which are the entry and exit points to Thane city, the toll issue, ironically seems to have taken a back seat with the civic elections around the corner.

 The issue, which has been haunting Thaneites who travel to Mumbai daily for work, seems to have died down over the past few weeks as the attention now seems to have been diverted towards other activities, including beatification drives demonetisation and other issues.
 
 Citizens who took out campaigs about traffic issues, excessive toll collection, wastage of time and fuel in this process and so on over the past year, continue to face the same hardships on a daily basis. Nothing has changed despite the much hue and cry.
 
 “We participated in a stop-toll campaign and spread the word to citizens using stickers and posters. For some reason all the enthusiasm has died down. It may come up again if the corporators mention it in their manifestos,”   resident   said. 
 
 The yellow line concept— an initiative of guardian minister Eknath Shinde—under which commuters would not have to pay toll if the traffic had exceeded the yellow line that was drawn a few meters ahead of the toll booth, is often ignored as toll booth workers insist that commuter pays up. Due to this, motorists at times get into heated arguments with the toll booth collectors.
 
 Also, the waiver of toll charges for those living in the vicinity of the toll plaza is yet to turn into a reality.
 
 “None of the political parties, be it   or Opposition, are talking about the toll issue. Their focus has now shifted to the developmental activities like road widening and beautification drives to impress the locals in order to garner votes for the upcoming civic polls. Demonetisation is another big issue on peoples’ mind. So, the toll issue has been completely eclipsed,” said a citizen activist.
 
  Residents from the lake-city now seem to have given up and are not keeping any expectations from political parties as well as the civic authority. 
 
 Virat Shetty (36), a Hari Om Nagar resident, said, “I live on the border of Thane and work in Bhandup. I need to travel up and down daily. With the toll amount not being waived off, it has now not only making a hole in my pocket, but also draining me out as there is always a huge jam at the toll plaza. Despite living so close to the toll plaza, I have to pay Rs 70 daily to travel to and fro the city. We were so thrilled when the guardian minister had taken up this issue. However, nothing has been done ever since. All promises made have fallen flat. Motorists continue to face the same issue.”
 
