PANAJI: A Reserve Bank of India-appointed task force committee, overseeing the bifurcation of Goa   from its Daman and   operations, has asked the apex cooperative bank in Goa to maintain separate balance sheets on a trial basis. The move, which will be implemented from April 1 and be in force for a continuous period of three months, is a precursor to the formal bifurcation of banking operations between Goa State Cooperative Bank and Daman and  .

 The interim measure will be initiated even as the bank awaits the state government’s assurance that it would provide financial support to it through share capital contribution, whenever required.
 
 Currently, Goa State Cooperative Bank enjoys the status of the apex cooperative bank in Goa and a multi-state cooperative bank. The Reserve Bank of India had given the bank a deadline of April 2016 to complete the bifurcation of the banking operations, but the bank failed to meet consecutive deadlines.
 
 The earlier   government has failed to fulfil two crucial conditions required for the bifurcation, which would also require the bank’s board to be reconstituted. The government, which holds a stake in the bank, has to issue a no-objection certificate stating that it is not averse to the proposed bifurcation of the bank and provide capital infusion.
 
 “The task force committee, headed by the regional director of RBI, has issued directives to maintain separate accounts, including provisioning norms, on a trial basis. If the bifurcation takes place midyear, then it is difficult to separate the accounts,” chairman of the bank, Ulhas Phaldesai, said.
 
 The Daman and Diu administration has completed the formalities and has formed the Daman and Diu State Cooperative society and is awaiting the bifurcation.
 
 NABCONS (Nabard consultancy services) had been tasked to undertake a viability study for the bifurcation process of the bank into two separate entities. Based on the report, the Goa State Cooperative Bank would hand over Rs 130 crore in assets to the Daman and Diu State Cooperative Bank and, in turn, would require Rs 35 crore capital infusion.
 
 “We have not got the assurance from the government yet, but we have met the chief minister and they have promised that the funds will come,” Phaldesai said.
 
 In his state Budget speech, chief minister Manohar Parrikar had acknowledged Goa State Cooperative Bank was in “bad shape” and had allocated Rs 20 crore for the bank. “Government intends to take steps for adequate infusion of capital into this bank, for which preliminary talks have been held with RBI and Nabard. Required statutory amendments will be carried out to ensure that the bank is placed under professional care and whatever bitter medicine required shall be administered to prevent further deterioration of its health,” Parrikar said.
 
 
