MUMBAI: While accepting that if a   chooses to remain idle, she is not entitled for interim maintenance, a sessions court, said that the case was, however, different for a businesswoman who had wound up her earning source before marriage.

 Ordering a hus band to pay his estranged wife a monthly interim maintenance of Rs 25,000, the court observed, “It is not that she has left the job after separating from the appellant (husband). It is quite natural that she may find it difficult to start the business again and this fact differentiates the case in hand.“ The woman told the court that the construction business owned by her husband's family was worth Rs 100 crore.
 
 The court refuted the  's main defen ce that since the woman, who was also a fashion designer, was well-qualified, she could not sit idle and ask for maintenance. The husband cited a high court judgement, wherein it was observed that well-qualified spouses desirous of remaining idle, not making efforts for the purpose of finding out a source of liveliho od, have to be discouraged, if the society wants to progress.
 
 Differentiating betwe en the two cases, the court said in the earlier case, the wife was working earlier as a lecturer and even later, she remained qualified to resume work. “She left the job and unnecessarily remained idle, she did not show she had tried to get the service as lecturer,“ the court said.
 
 The court also refused to buy the husband's claims that the amount was too high. It pointed out to the fact that the man owned a car worth Rs 22 lakh. “It appears that there is family business of the appellant and his father, and the fact that the father is in a position to purchase such a luxurious car shows that the family is having sizeable income out of which Rs 25,000 can certainly be paid for the maintenance of the respondent (wife),“ the court said.
 
 The 32-year-old husband had moved the sessions court after the magistrate court, where the wife had filed a domestic violence plea, had ordered payment of the interim maintenance on May 9 last year. The couple got married in 2013.
 
 On March 7, 2015, the wife filed a complaint alleging that the husband and his relatives had subjected her to domestic violence. In the application made before the magistrate court, the woman sought interim maintenance, her locker keys and her car, among other things. She also said that her husband had asked her to stop working.
 
