NEW DELHI: The   today asked the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir government why they took no measures to keep the Amarnath pilgrims safe when they had intelligence inputs as early as on June 25th that a terror attack on them was imminent.

 The Congress took aim specifically at the coalition government of the PDP and the BJP in Kashmir, saying that it has a lot of "answering to do" about its policies in the state.
 
  
  
 
 Seven Amarnath pilgrims were killed and 14 others were injured when terrorists opened fire on a bus near Batengoo in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district on Monday.
 
 A day later, Congress president   said there needs to be an inquiry into why there was such a security lapse during the Amarnath pilgrimage, alluding to party colleague Surjewala's comment. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  "If there were intelligence inputs on 25th June that Amarnath yatra would be attacked, why no preventive measures were taken This is a matter of serious security lapse on the part of Government and security forces," said Congress spokesman RS Surjewala, reported ANI.
 
 He was referring to a letter sent by Inspector General of Police (Kashmir Zone) Muneer Khan to the Army, the CRPF, and range DIGs in the state, which PTI news agency reported about on June 27.
 
  Khan reportedly said in the letter that the "possibility of a sensational attack by a terrorist outfit cannot be ruled out", the news agency said.
 
 "The attack may be in the form of stand-off fire on (a) yatra convoy which they believe will result in flaring of communal tensions throughout the nation," the IGP said in the letter, which PTI said was being circulated in many groups on WhatsApp.
 
 "Intelligence input received from SSP Anantnag reveals that terrorists have been directed to eliminate 100 to 150 pilgrims and about 100 police officers and officials," the letter further said, according to PTI's June 27 report. 
 
 On Monday, hours after the attack, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi also called it an "unacceptable security lapse", adding that he shared "the pain and anguish of families who lost loved ones" in the terror attack.
 
  
  
 
 Last month, Rahul criticised the BJP-PDP government for "mishandling" the situation in J&K. 
 
  
  
 
 
