They weave magic with words and pictures, with food as their core element. Every little detail matters to them and they will not compromise on quality. We’re talking about Hyderabad’s food bloggers, for whom, blogging about food is serious business. Though relatively new,   in Hyderabad has come a long way from the days when it was a mere hobby for its few practitioners. Hyderabad Times spoke to a few food bloggers in the city and discussed the nitty-gritty of food blogging, what inspires them and what should be done in order to have a successful food blog. 

 
 
 An IT professional as well as a food blogger  , loves experimenting with his food, trying out new places and seeking new experiences. “Foodaholix by Sabyasachi Ray Choudhuri was the first food blog in Hyderabad, and my inspiration. It made me realise the value of having your own space to share your own discoveries and opinions with other food lovers,” says De. 
 For  , who is a sales manager by profession, it was his constant travel and “the exposure to lot of good food” that inspired him to start his blog. “It all started five years ago when I didn’t even know anything about food bloggers; I had only watched Rocky and Mayur on TV. But after moving to Hyderabad two years ago, I came across local blogs by Vishal, Sabyasachi and Pallab. I loved reading what these guys had to say about the various restaurants in the city. Until then, I used to only click pics of the food I ate and post them online with long descriptions. A friend suggested I start a blog. And that’s how ‘Eat, trip, click was born,” he says. For  , an engineer, food blogging brings together her twin passions — food and writing. “What led me to start my blog though was my desire to ensure that everyone gets to experience the best of Hyderabad’s culinary delights,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 
 While bloggers agree that they are are lucky to be able to do something they truly enjoy, not many credit them for all the hard work that goes into maintaining a successful blog. “A food blogger is a one-man army. We have to do our own photography, content writing, editing, and publishing. Behind every blog is hours of hard work,” says De. There is another big challenge that food bloggers face — staying fit despite all that eating! “Obesity is a real danger that almost every food blogger faces,” he adds.
 Shagun agrees. “Eating is the easiest part. But after that comes the long hours of sorting through pictures, writing, editing and coming up with layouts. Our readers hardly know the hard work that goes into a post,” he says. 
 The toughest part is maintaining his health, he says. “I try to restrict myself to eating out five times a week and can never afford to skip my daily workout,” Shagun adds. besides staying up to date with all the emerging social media trends, Paromita opines that managing pushy restaurant owners who don’t take kindly to negative feedback is the real struggle. “people who invite you to eat always expect a positive feedback because all they want is to promote their outlet. But this is where the blogger has to strike a fine balance. You have to stay true to your readers; that’s the priority.”
 
 
 
 A food blogger has to be on his/ her toes, constantly. Changing seasons, global food trends, local ingredients — a blogger needs to keep tabs on everything. Pointing out how a lot of blogs right now revolve around mangoes, Pallab says, “Seasons play a huge role in what we choose to write about. Come summer, and I focus on dishes featuring mangoes. From the traditional fare such as aamras and poori to the unconventional Mango Soil Dusted Risotto, a lot of my posts feature the King of Fruits during summers,” he adds. 
 Shagun agrees that mango is the buzz word in summer, and therefore on his blog as well. “Right now, I’m focusing on a few places that have Mango themed food festival going on. Also, I am trying to put together blogs on the best ice cream combos available in the city,” he adds.
 
 
 
 According to Pallab, a food blog is difficult to directly monetise, but can act as a launchpad for other food-related career options like becoming a food consultant or a food show host. “For me, blogging is a creative outlet. Something I’m passionate about. But I think it will always remain a hobby,” he says.
 Shagun agrees that food blogging is a competitive field and it is very tough to survive just by blogging. “But given how we get to interact with so many restaurant owners, chefs, media personnel and PR companies, we can use that to expand the scope of our work,” he says. For it to become a career option the term ‘food blogger’ needs to encompass a lot of other activities too. “Along with the writing about food, if we can do food photography, menu consultation, meet ups with customers and chefs, curate experiences for both hotels and their clients, then it will become a viable career option,” adds Shagun.
 
