VADODARA: In a rare case, the anti-corruption bureau ( ) of Vadodara arrested two businessmen who tried to bribe a forest officer on Tuesday. The accused duo was nabbed after range forest officer (RFO)   lodged a complaint against them. The accused identified as   and his son   had offered a bribe of Rs four lakh to Vaishnav to exonerate them in a criminal case. 

 “The accused, who stay in Nadiad, own a unit in Godhra wherein they stock and process gum extracted from Salai tree. The gum that they purchased from Aurangabad in Maharashtra is used for medicinal purpose but it cannot be purchased and sold without government permission,” said ACB assistant director, P Gehlot. 
 
 Vaishnav got a tip-off that the accused used to sell a stock of the gum without permissions following which he raided their unit in Godhra in September last year. 
 
 “During the raid it was found that the accused had sold off 1,108 quintal of gum, worth Rs 2.13 crore, without government permission. Vaishnav informed his office about the raid and began inquiry into the matter. During the inquiry, the accused duo approached Vaishnav and offered him Rs four lakh to settle the case,” Gehlot told TOI. The accused wanted Vaishnav to complete the inquiry and exonerate them. 
 
 “When the accused met Vaishnav with the bribe offer, he did audio recording and then approached the ACB. We took his complaint on December 31 and laid a trap for the Agrawals. First the accused agreed to meet on Monday but the meeting was postponed to Tuesday at a forest office in Vasad,” Gehlot added. The ACB caught Malukchand red-handed while offering bribe of Rs 2 lakh to Vaishnav. His son Kirti too came in a while and landed in the police custody. 
 
 Interestingly, all the currency notes offered in bribe were in new Rs 2,000 denomination. “It has happened after 13 years that the government officer who was offered a bribe had himself approached the ACB and filed a complaint on the basis of which we arrested private individuals,” Gehlot said. 
 
