Mumbai: Twelve years after 13 ball boys working at Priyadarshini Park in south Mumbai were sacked, the Bombay high court earlier this week ordered their former employer Malabar Hill Citizens Forum (MHCF) to pay Rs 1.30 lakh as legal costs to the workers over what it termed as attempts to “stall” the hearing of their case.

 A division bench of Justice Shantanu Kemkar and Justice Mahesh Sonak dismissed the MHCF’s challenge to a 2013 order referring the dispute to the  . The MHCF had raised a technical point that the deputy commissioner of the labour department had no power to refer the dispute to the industrial court. 
 
 “In the present cases, the workmen’s services are alleged to have been terminated some time in 2005. Till date, the matter is at the stage of deciding whether reference of the dispute to the industrial tribunal is legal and valid,” observed the bench. “In this manner, the employer has, succeeded in stalling adjudication on merits for several years, fully conscious that such stalling, is bound to wilt the resistance of the workmen and deny them adjudication on merits by the industrial tribunal. “We are of the opinion that these petitions are required to be dismissed with costs,” said the court. The bench asked the Forum to pay Rs 10,000 as legal costs to each of the 13 former employees and directed the Industrial Tribunal to decide the case within a year. 
 
 “In the matters of this nature, when the workmen, allege that their services have been terminated unlawfully, it is only appropriate that such workmen, are enabled to agitate their grievances before at least one judicial or quasi judicial forum. For the last four years, MHCF , has succeeded in virtually stalling adjudication before the industrial tribunal by raising issues, which, in our opinion, were not only hyper-technical but also untenable. Such a course of action, at the behest of the employer, who can afford luxury of prolonged litigation can hardly be encouraged,” added the judges.
 
 The 13 employees were working as ball boys in the tennis courts on Priyadarshini Park that is run by MHCF, said their advocate Vishwambhar Parkar, counsel for the staff members. The Priyadarshini Park, spread over 65,000 square feet was set up on reclaimed land after it was handed over to the MHCF on adoption basis in 1985. The park occupies an area of approximately 40,000 square metres and includes a children’s park, soil walkway and jogging areas. The remaining area houses a sports complex with Olympic-size eight lane synthetic athletic track, four synthetic tennis courts, aerobic studio, gymnasium, yoga hall and football ground.
 
 
