ALWAR: Seven   at   were admitted to hospital on Friday. One of them was referred to Jaipur for further treatment after his health began to deteriorate.

 The prisoners were on a   demanding safe return to their respective countries after completion of their jail term. 
 
 “One Pakistani prisoner Mannu was referred to Jaipur for treatment. Other prisoners who were hospitalised include Ramzan, Mohammad Sajid, Zahid Ali, Jameel Ahemad, Fayaz Ahemad, and Rocky Dezosuza,” said an official. 
 
 We are providing treatment to them, he added.
 
 They were on hunger strike since January 2. 
 
 There are 17 prisoners of six nationalities, who have completed their term and yet remain lodged at the Alwar Central Jail. The prisoners, who are from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Cameroon, Iran and Myanmar, have approached their respective embassies.
 
 The jail authorities had written a letter to   on Tuesday raising the issue. “Proper arrangements should be made for these prisoners to return to their respective countries,” read the letter.
 
 The letter also states that many of them are threatening to go on an indefinite hunger strike. “The authorities have advised them against taking any extreme step as they were working tirelessly for their return,“ read the letter. 
 
 The authorities cited the instance of Sajid, who completed his term at the Jaipur Central Jail on May 21, 2016, and has since been lodged in Alwar jail.
 
 Some of the prisoners have been awaiting their return for years. Javed Aslam, a native of Rahimyarkhan in Pakistan, is waiting to return home since March 11, 2012, and Hamid Khan from Balochistan since August 11, 2012. The human rights groups are also pushing their cases but to no avail.
 
 Jail authorities say that these foreign nationals require documentation from the ministries and their respective embassies. “The moment they step out of jail they will be arrested by the police for not having a valid visa and other documents,” said the jail authorities.
 
 
