PUNE: A techie lost a pricey purse on the busy MG Road on February 8 — the day her husband gifted it to her. A month on, she was in for a pleasant surprise. A constable called her, saying her prized possession had been recovered.

 All smiles, software engineer Anuja Bhosale (25) ran out of words to praise the constable. Meet Swapnil Garad of the Cantonment police station. He put in extra efforts to bring smiles back on the face of sobbing Bhosale — a marked departure from the usual scenario.
 
 A resident of Yevalewadi, Bhosale works with a software company on   road. “I was riding my scooter on February 8. When I was on MG Road, another scooterist told me my purse had fallen,” she told TOI.
 
 Bhosale checked the entire stretch from   to   twice. “But I did not find the purse on the road and I thought somebody must have picked it up,” she said.
 
 The purse contained some cash, a few credit and debit cards and important identity documents. “I blocked the cards immediately but I wanted the purse back because it was gifted to me,” she said.
 
 Later in the day, she went to the Cantonment police station and lodged a case of property missing after meeting police inspector Vaishali Chandgude. “The woman was continuously crying and we decided to start a search,” said Chandgude.
 
 Constable Garad started investigating the case. “I decided to check all the CCTV cameras facing MG Road. I saw Bhosale riding the scooter on MG Road with the bag on the footrest. After observing footages obtained from five different hotels and commercial establishments, we found that the bag had fallen somewhere between Kohinoor hotel and Cantonment Court on MG Road,” Garad said.
 
 The footages also showed two autorickshaws trailing Bhosale, Garad said. “We could see the registration number of one of them,” he said.
 
 The police approached the autorickshaw driver based at Solapur Bazaar in Camp and obtained some details about the other autorickshaw driver. The police suspected the latter had picked up the purse.
 
 “With the help of a few friends of the driver of Solapur Bazaar, we obtained details of the other driver. Though he had picked up the purse, he had not touched the valuables inside,” Garad said.
 
 After recovering the purse and completing the legal formalities, the purse was handed over to Bhosale on March 6. “It was a routine affair for the police,” inspector Chandgude said.
 
 Touched by the efforts taken by the police, Bhosale narrated the entire episode on her Facebook wall. She also tagged senior officers to ensure her sentiments reached them.
 
 
