Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: In the face of a year-long drought and shortage of fodder crops in the market, the animal husbandry department has decided to promote cultivation of azolla, a form of green fodder.   is a free floating water fern, which is considered to be more nutritious compared to other fodders. It requires less water and grows faster, say officials.
 
 To create awareness among farmers, the animal husbandry department has ordered that every veterinary dispensary display a model of azolla cultivation. Interested farmers will get around 50gm of azolla culture free of cost from the dispensary, to get them started. 
 
 Dispensaries have also been instructed to display a small bit of hydroponic cultivation too. “We are trying to popularize methods of growing fodders that require least amount of water in one’s own farm and help feed their own cattle,” said regional joint director of the animal husbandry department, Dr T Thamilselvan. “With all godowns reporting  , it is advisable for farmers to start cultivating their own fodder,” he said. 
 
 This decision was taken after a Palladam-based government veterinarian researched the nutrient properties of the fern. “We realized that besides proteins, it was high in amino acids, nitrogen and minerals like potassium, phosphorus, calcium, nitrogen, sulphur, magnesium and iron,” said veterinary assistant surgeon Dr P Nataraj. “This is a lot more nutritious for the cattle when compared to dry fodder, where only less than 5% of it contains nutrition, the remaining just being carbohydrates” he said. “Dry fodders like chollam, vaikol or paddy straws make cattle feel satiated but nothing more than that,” he said. 
 
 Azolla should be cultivated in troughs which are 18 sq ft in area and around 22cm in depth. “You have to create a trough with a small drain facility, either in plastic or cement. In it you add 30kg of red soil and mix it with sand. You then add around 3kg of dry dung, over which you pour 30litres of water,” said Nataraj, who set up the first model of azolla cultivation recently at Palladam veterinary dispensary. “You then add just 50gm of azolla. It will spread within eight to 10 days and grow all over the area,” he said.
 
 After a 10-day waiting period, veterinarians say, farmers can take out 3-4kg of azolla from each 18 sq ft trough every day, if the soil quality is good. One 18 sq ft trough is supposed to be adequate to feed one animal. 
 
 
