PUNE: The   police have launched a   for two unidentified eve-teasers who allegedly blew   at a woman and beat up her husband for objecting to their behaviour on Magarpatta Road on Monday afternoon. 

 The two suspects also allegedly misbehaved with a few other women in the area. 
 
 A 20-year-old married woman from Hadapsar lodged a complaint with the Hadapsar police on Monday evening. According to the complaint, she was riding pillion with her husband (23) on his motorcycle around 4pm when the two suspects on a scooter started following them. Initially, the two whistled at the woman to draw attention. When she looked at them, they allegedly blew kisses at her.
 
 As she alerted her husband, he tried to stop the two and and questioned their behaviour. Instead of apologising, the duo allegedly abused and kicked and punched him. The woman’s husband runs a milk business in the area.
 
 Investigation officer of Hadapsar police station Shankar Jadhav told TOI that the man sustained some internal injuries in the attack. “The two suspects and the complainant do not know each other. It is not known why they misbehaved with the woman,” he said.
 
 Jadhav said that woman’s husband had noted down the registration number of the suspects’ scooter. “The vehicle is registered with the Pimpri Chinchwad transport office. We have sought details of its owner from the Regional Transport Office,” he said
 
 It is suspected that the two suspects while driving on the Magarpatta road had teased a few other women while blowing kisses at them. “We have received only one complaint,” the officer said.
 
 Jadhav said if any other woman approaches the police against the suspects, police will incorporate their complaints with one lodged by the Hadapsar resident.
 
 Police have booked the unidentified suspects, who are in their 20s, under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
