Madurai: A resident of Tuticorin who thought he has been raising a ‘Chikku’ (Manilkara zapota) or Sapota tree for the last 12 years had the surprise of his life when he got a handful of khirni fruits instead last week. Horticulturists say this could have happened only because he failed to take note of the rootstock of khirni or Rayan tree attached to the hybrid chikku sapling he had bought. 

 K Murugan, 45, of Bryant Nagar, bought a chikku sapling twelve years ago from a nearby nursery and planted it near his house, promptly taking care of it. Though the nursery owners had promised that the hybrid sapling would start producing fruits after two years, the tree kept growing taller with lush green leaves over 12 feet. Frustrated with the tree, he had even decided to chop it off after observing it for another six months.
 
 Last week, he found some fruits in the tree but to his surprise they were not chikku at all but yellow in colour resembling neem. However, they had a sour and sweeter taste unlike neem fruits which are generally bitter with a mild tinge of sweetness. A perplexed Murugan sent the fruits and stems of the tree to a laboratory in Mysuru and is awaiting the results. “I was wondering why the sapling was not blossoming and surprised to see these fruits after so many years”, he said. 
 
 Explaining what could have gone wrong, retired deputy director of horticulture, David Raja Beula said that chikku or sapota trees were generally raised as saplings by grafting with khirni rootstock. “A healthy chikku sapling is grafted with khirni stock so that the actual sapling is healthy and produces quality fruits. But the rootstock should be pruned off once the sapling grows and we sensitise the fruit crop farmers on these techniques”, he said. So, even as the man was racking his brains to know why his chikku sapling had not yielded fruits after the usual two years, the rootstock of the khirni must have outgrown the chikku and yielded fruits after 12 years. Apparently, Murgan had raised a khirni tree in place of chikku. 
 
 Khirni or Rayan (Manilkara hexandra) is of the same family of chikku ‘Sapoteae’ and it is an evergreen slow-growing tree. It is native to South Asia and its timber is hard and durable, ideal for heavy structural works. The fruits are edible and used in tribal medicines.
 
 
