Bhopal: For the past week, the Shivpuri municipal council was grappling with a “royal” protocol dilemma. Both Congress MP from Guna-Shivpuri Jyotiraditya Scindia and BJP cabinet minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia had been invited to the unveiling of a statue of Madhavrao Scindia on Monday evening.

 The solution was ingenuous — print two sets of invitations, one showing Yashodhara as chief guest and the other Jyotiraditya. While Yashodhara is Madhavrao Scindia’s sister, Jyotiraditya is his son. Both leaders jointly participated in the ceremony and rituals on Monday. It’s not often that the two Gwalior Royals — from rival parties — are clicked in the same frame.
 
 Jyotiraditya is strongly pitched as the potential CM candidate in the 2018 assembly election and his aunt, Yashodhara, holds the sports and youth welfare, and religious trusts and endowment portfolios in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. 
 
 Shivpuri Municipal Council authorities — including chairman Munnalal Kushwah — remained tight-lipped about the two invites. However, sources in the municipal body pointed out that there was no way one royal family member would be invited and the other left out. Custom and decorum called for both to be present but the dilemma was who to name the chief guest?
 
 The Congress runs Shivpuri municipality with civic chairman, Munnalal Kushwah, being a key leader of Jyotiraditya’s followers. Kushwah had to bat for his boss and apparently first decided to go with Jyotiraditya Scindia as chief guest. Cards were distributed on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, there was a dramatic change. A phone call came to the office of chief municipal officer Ranbeer Singh and within hours, the second set of cards was printed with Yashodhara Raje as chief guest, and distributed in BJP circles.
 
 Wary of being swamped by media calls, municipal body officials switched off their mobile phones as Jyotiraditya and his aunt Yashodhara Raje reached Do Batti Chouraha on Chhatri Road in Shivpuri for the function on Monday evening. Forgetting political differences, the two leaders sat before Madhavrao Scindia’s statue, participated in the puja and shared the dais. Leaders from both Congress and BJP attended the function.
 
 When the time came for speeches, the moderator thought wisely not to mention the words ‘chief guest’. Instead, Jyotiraditya Scindia was invited first, addressed as “mananiya sansad mahoday (honourable MP)”. Immediately after his speech, Yashodhara Raje who was invited as “our minister striving for development”. In the end, the Congress and BJP were both happy to share the dais and sit through the programme.
 
 
