BENGALURU: Although most hospitals in the city are equipped with neonatal, paediatric and childcare units, one seldom comes across a dedicated full-fledged   unit. Despite Bengaluru boasting a sizeable   population, there are few centres in the city that can give   in the city.

 Doctors attribute this discrepancy to the lack of trained professionals in geriatric medicine. Chairman of geriatric medicine at Manipal Hospitals, Dr Anoop Amarnath said, “The primary reason is the lack of trained professionals. Whether it’s doctors trained in geriatrics, or nurses and paramedical specialists trained in handling the elderly. Also, there’s not much awareness about the need for these dedicated units. Although capital is low for setting up a geriatric unit, we need qualified manpower to run them.”
 
 He added that the lack of trained doctors in geriatric care was a concern across the country. Pointing to the inadequate number of training centres that could equip doctors with the necessary expertise, Dr Amarnath added, “There are only a handful of centres in India – AIIMS is one such – that can offer training in geriatrics. While it’s a part of basic medical training in the West, all it gets is a footnote in Indian curriculum. Given the change in our country’s demographic profile, it’s imperative that we act quickly to make geriatric care a mandatory part of our medical curriculum.”
 
 Since specialist units attend to attend to the problems of senior citizens, city hospitals tend to neglect a dedicated geriatric unit, say experts. Senior vice-president of operations (South) at Columbia Asia Hospitals Dr Sunil Rao said, “Setting up a geriatric care unit does not help in revenue generation at private hospitals. Also, few colleges in India offer specialization in geriatric medicine, and seats are limited.”
 
 Despite a few existing foreign fellowships offering courses in geriatric medicine, most are not recognised by the Medical Council of India, Dr Rao said.
 
 ‘We need elderly-friendly facilities at hospitals’
 
 Having elderly-friendly amenities in hospitals is the first step towards setting up of a special unit for geriatric care. We need wards equipped with railings that can aid   in movement, besides having convenient lavatory facilities. We also need nurses, physiotherapists and psychiatric counsellors who understand how to take care of the elderly. These facilities often require financial investment, which is a major challenge for most hospitals.
 
 Dr G D Ravindran | Professor of medicine and clinical ethics at Geriatric Department, St. Johns Hospital
 
 
