MANDREM: Chief minister   rises with the sun at 6am and proceeds to indulge in some yoga and worship at his sprawling ancestral house in  . It’s a crisp, serene morning and likely the only peaceful time the dimunitive man will get before he plunges into campaign mode.

 When he is ready to speak to TOI three hours later, it becomes amply clear that Parsekar is on a mission. He doesn’t merely want to be re-elected, but to be retained for the top post by the BJP. And with the February 4 state assembly elections looming, he knows he is left with very little time.
 
 “As chief minister, I mostly have to travel outside my constituency (Mandrem) to campaign for the party. That leaves me with hardly any time to meet the people,” he says, as he cuts to the run-up to the 2012 assembly elections, during which he claims to have visited every house in his constituency. Now, he has no option but to entrust his local workers with the crucial task.
 
 He, nevertheless, makes time to attend a few corner meetings on the weekend in the hopes of fortifying his chief ministerial aura. “If you elect Parsekar, he can become chief minister again and continue development at the same pace. If you vote for another candidate, he will only be an MLA, not the CM,” he tells a crowd of around 25-30 people gathered in an area shaded by banana trees, who seem more than happy to pledge their support to him. 
 
 “Sitting in Panaji, I have pursued the Mopa airport project and the   in Tuem, which will generate employment to several jobless youth in this constituency,” Parsekar continues, promising an additional water treatment plant to provide 24x7 water supply, a sewage treatment plant and an underground cabling plan to boost the tourism industry in Mandrem.
 
 Then, he receives a phone call, likely from his 24-year-old daughter,  . Someone in his constituency had died. The chief minister promptly alters his schedule to visit the bereaved family and offer his condolences. 
 
 A teacher by profession, Shambhavi plays an active role in keeping Parsekar connected to the goings-on in the constituency and displays a keen interest in politics. His son, Rishi, on the other hand, has plans to cut a music album. 
 
 By 2pm, Parsekar visits his election office to interact with the youth group handling his social media publicity campaign. After assigning them some tasks, he travels to his office for one-on-one meetings with some of his voters. 
 
 Although it’s going to be a late lunch break for him, Parsekar heads home anyway. It’s been a hectic day and he knows he has to recharge before he embarks on the second half of his campaign.
 
 Come 4pm and the chief minister is greeted by a 1,200 strong crowd of women at an enclosed venue in the constituency; the largest number to have met him on the day. They belong to the mahila mandal and readily heed his request to visit the homes of those who were not present at the meeting. “Tell them about the development works I have executed and the plans I have for the constituency,” he exhorts. 
 
 The day is not done, though. There are three more meetings the chief minister has to attend before he calls it a night.
 
 
