Ankita Kundu, who had made a name for herself in the Kannada show, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Lil Champs Season 10 some years ago, is back on TV again, this time for a national reality show, Rising Star. One of the top 10 contestants on the show, 14-year-old Ankita can sing in different languages like Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi and English. In a free-wheeling chat, Bangalore Times spoke to her about all things music.

 
 
 I started learning music at the age of three, under the guidance of my late uncle, Arun Kumar Chakroborty. I now train with Rajan-Nagendra and Harikishan Pahwa. Once I grow up, I hope to be a playback singer, doing stage shows all across the world.
 
 
 
 It was unexpected. I had booked my tickets to Mumbai for another show. But by then, the people from this show approached me and asked me to send them a video. They really liked it and I was picked for the auditions.
 
 
 
 Yes, I have sung for films like Ricky, Mojo, Mumbai and 5G. I love watching Kannada films and idolize Dr Rajkumar. I also like Diganth, Rajesh Krishnan and Ganesh, whose film Gaalipata is my all-time favourite.
 
 
 
 I have just entered Class 10, so it's getting quite difficult. However, I dedicate most of my time to music, because that is what I want to pursue later, and thankfully, my parents and teachers are supportive of my ambition. So, if I miss school because of recordings, I work harder to get the notes and catch up on school work the next day.
 
 
 
 Varun Dhawan. I loved that he pulled my cheeks and hugged me.
 
 
 
 I like melodious, semi-classical numbers. I also like contemporary Western music. My favourite singers are  , Shreya Ghosal, Shankar Mahadevan, Monali Thakur, Mohammed Rafi and  .
 
 
 
 I love playing the guitar and keyboard, apart from inline skating, cycling, swimming, cooking, dancing, watching movies and writing essays on random topics.
 
 
 
 Yes, I wish to be the voice of Ragini Dwivedi, Aindrita Ray, Hariprriya and Nidhi Subbaiah. In  , I want to sing for  .
 
 
 
 I like Rajan-Nagendra, Manu Murthi and Arjun Janya. In Bollywood, I like Ismail Darbar, Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, Lakshmikant Pyarelal and Shankar Jaikishan. I hope to work with them at some point in my life.
 
