Nagpur: Although in various controversies, the Nagpur High Court Bar Association (HCBA) polls, are turning out to be an interesting battle between various contestants. Unlike previous polls in last decade or so, where the fights for president’s post were one sided, this time, the fight is between two pro-Vidarbha activists, as per the HCBA members.

 Vidarbha Connect (VCan) president Mukesh Samarth would be locking horns with Jan Manch president Anil Kilor for the coveted post although other contestants like VG Bhamburkar are in fray. Though Samarth couldn’t be reached for confirmation, Kilor told TOI that he would be trying his best to win the elections and already started campaigning.
 
 For two posts of vice-presidents, there is three-way fight between Nitin Vyawhare, Dilip Daga and Purushottam Patil, who would be seeking second term consecutively. Even for secretary — Prafulla Khubalkar, Rashi Deshpande and Deven Patrikar — would be fighting for the honours. However, there could be further addition or subtraction in list of all these candidates till last date of filing up of nomination forms, which was extended till January last week.
 
 Unlike other polls, there are no official political outfits here, but unofficially those are divided into the groups of legal luminaries VR Manohar, Late Arvind Bobde and KH Deshpande. Members however, are predicting that this time, a new group may emerge which would not have any senior lawyer as their mentor. It would have right blend of youngsters and experienced lawyers, irrespective of any caste, creed and religion, and would give tough fight to top candidates. 
 
 The polls have already landed in various controversies after existing body failed to announce its schedule for over five months, even after end of their tenure. It was only after the issue was brought to fore by TOI on November 2 that HCBA’s Executive Committee conducted the meeting and announced the schedule.
 
 The polls were hit by another controversy when it came to light that over 55% lawyers had failed to pay their membership dues, despite a meagre charge of Rs150/month, till last date of January 7. Out of over 3,800 total members, 2,161, failed to submit their dues, due to which the entire schedule was deferred by a week.
 
 Members said there wouldn’t be over 1,500 members even after extension of deadline for submitting membership arrears and majority of lawyers, from all courts, were roped in by respective candidates for garnering votes. They said hardly 300-500 lawyers regularly practice in the high court and subscribe for daily cause list.
 
 
