LUCKNOW: BJP coming to power in UP has revived the call for separate   once again. A delegation from   for New States ( ), a body associated with movements demanding separate Bundelkhand, Purvanchal, Gorkhaland, Vidarbha and Telangana reached the city on Saturday to press the demand . 

 Speaking for Bundelkhand, actor turned crusader Raja Bundela said, “Bundelkhand has its own history and tradition. Even Mughals and Marathas couldn’t overpower them. When India got freedom in 1947, 36 royal kingdoms in Bundelkhand merged with India because their demand for statehood was met. But we lost our identity to politics in 1950s and thereafter, Bundelkhand district was divided between UP and MP. We want our status back.”
 
 On why the demand had been revived, Bundela said, “This is perfect time to raise the demand because the governments at Center, UP and MP are of BJP, which is open to the idea of smaller states.” NFNS legal advisor P Niroop said, “Article 3 of Indian Constitution provides for reorganisation of states. The process is simple if only there is political will.” 
 
 Bundela added that statehood was linked to peoples’ future. “About 67% people in Bundelkhand migrate as those who don’t can’t think beyond two meals a day. The result is that they are dropped out of the developmental process. Only statehood can ensure their inclusion in ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’,” he said.
 
 NFNS president S H Aney said India has seen the advantage of smaller states. “Today, Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh are doing better than Bihar on many counts,” said Aney, who lends face to Vidarbha statehood. Citing example of Telangana-Andhra Pradesh split, Munish Tamang, faculty, Delhi University, who speaks for Gorkhaland, said, “In two-and-half years, the two states have become investment destinations besides ranking in top-10 for ease of doing business.”
 
 BOX
 
 ‘Only Statehood can develop Purvanchal’ 
 
 The demand for Purvanchal state was also raised on Saturday. Mumbai-based charted accountant Pankaj Jaiswal said, “Chief minister Yogi has always raised issue of eastern UP suffrance on streets and in parliament. He has even pressed for Purvanchal state on previous occasion, NFNS just wants to say that now is the time to act.” He added that like Bundelkhand, Purvanchal enjoyed an independent status. 
 
