JAIPUR: Drawn by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's declaration of a caliphate, suspected Islamic State (IS) sympathiser, Mohammad Iqbal, wanted to fight along with other   and Iraq to establish caliphate, but his plans failed after he was denied a visa to travel Turkey in 2014. Rajasthan Anti-Terrorist Squad ( ) chief   said, primary interrogation has confirmed Iqbal's links with the banned outfit. 

 "We had picked Iqbal alias Travel Haq from   on February 6. He was under our surveillance for past three months, sustained interrogation and investigation revealed Iqbal had applied for visa to Turkey to slip into Syria to get trained in one of several IS's camps," he said. After Iqbal failed to get into the war zone, he established contacts with Abu Sa'ad al-Sudani, a Sudanese national and an IS commander. "Sudani advised Iqbal to raise funds for the establishment of caliphate. Through social media, Iqbal met another IS operative Jameel Ahmad and began sending him money," said ATS SP Vikas Kumar.
 
 Jameel Ahmad was arrested by the ATS in October last year from Sikar. Ahmad admitted he provided funds to IS in Syria through hawla network. "He also said during his interrogation that somebody from Tamil Nadu was helping him raising funds for IS. When we went through Ahmad's chat history, one name - "Travel Haq' appeared multiple times," Kumar said.
 
 After three months of surveillance, the ATS was able to establish the real identity of Travel Haq, "Iqbal used Travel Haq as username on social media websites. He has smuggling network spread across Bangladesh and China," added a senior ATS official. Iqbal was arrested with 3.5 kg of gold and was locked up in Chennai Jail. The initial investigation has revealed Iqbal collected funds and handed it over to Ahmad.
 
 "He earned bachelors in computer application and became heavily radicalized by watching online videos. He joined IS though Facebook and Twitter," ATS official said, adding Iqbal is a 'puritan' who wished to live by the norms of Shariat.
 
 "We are interrogating him to get more details about his other supporters, Abu Sa'ad al-Sudani, a notorious IS handlers who indoctrinated several people across the world and in Hyderabad too" the official said. Sudani was killed in May last year in an air strike. Iqbal was allegedly planning to move his entire family to war torn Aleppo, "This is a disturbing trend that people are being radicalised online," said a top ATS official, adding that Iqbal's links are under investigation.
 
 
