NEW DELHI: Commuters were caught unawares when they countered road barricades that police had put up at entry points to the city on Monday despite news that the planned protest by the   had been called off. Standstill   was not only reported on the roads leading to the capital, but also in the heart of city, with the cops halting vehicles for checks in the backdrop of information that fringe groups of the agitators would attempt to create a ruckus near Parliament House.

 Having banned the entry into Delhi of cars carrying more than five people, a big police deployment led to vehicles coming from Uttar Pradesh stalling on Noida Link Road and NH-24. Vehicles crawled for nearly three hours on Monday morning on the DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj border and New Ashok Nagar route too.
 
 The flagging down of small goods vehicles and the time spent on issuing challans and receiving the fines from them aggravated the chaos at these places. The resulting snarls stretched back to more than two kilometres on both sides of the border by noon.
 
 Fortunately for the people, deputy commissioner of police Omvir Singh Bishnoi announced later in the day that there would be no special checking at the border points from Tuesday.
 
 With 25 pickets in Lutyens’ Delhi and heavy scrutiny in south Delhi, these city areas were particularly affected on Monday. The gridlock caused by the cops stopping vehicles at Delhi Golf Course stretched back to Jungpura. The congestion in South Extension and on Rao Tula Ram Marg, notoriously jammed even on normal days, left the cops almost helpless. 
 
 Police officers defended their action saying they had issued warnings about these checks. But the preventive measures taken to stop the pro-reservation agitators left commuters harried through the day. “I had presumed that the restrictions would be lifted and drove to work but found myself waiting for more than an hour on the Delhi-Noida Link Road,” said Ashish Dubey, who was going to his office at Connaught Place from Sector 23 in Noida. 
 
 Sudhir Sood of Sector 44, Noida, was similarly inconvenienced when going to his factory in Okhla via the Mahamaya flyover-Kalindi Kunj route. “I usually take around 30 minutes to reach the factory. Today, it took me over an hour,” he grumbled. Anandita Sharma, who idled for a long time while going from Chiragh Dilli to Connaught Place, complained, “I agree that security requires barricades being put up, but they could be done taking the traffic pressure into consideration.” 
 
 With police receiving flak through the day for the mess, they took steps to remove the barricades in many places by the evening. In Noida, too, police removed the barricades by 6.30pm. The Rapid Action Force and   personnel were also withdrawn from deployment on the borders with Haryana and UP.
 
 
