The urban development department has issued a circular directing civic bodies to publish a list of fly-by-night builders' illegal projects in newspapers or hoardings and vacate such structures if they are found to be dangerous in mandatory structural audits. 

 The move aims to protect potential buyers from unknowingly going for such constructions which may be   than the market rate. With many such projects mushrooming on city outskirts, the urban development department has asked all local bodies to survey such buildings. The list of such buildings would be displayed on hoardings and published in   so that buyers are not cheated. The circular states that most illegal buildings are constructed by fly-by-night developers, who sell and disappear.
 
 The order states that people would be evicted from illegal structures declared unsafe. It emphasizes that the quality of construction of such buildings be checked.
 
 "If the construction of a   is poor, its residents have to be evicted immediately and the building demolished," said an official.
 
 Potential homebuyers have welcomed the move. Naina Shah, who had recently sought details of a building, said such an initiative would help buyers reconfirm if the developer was into illegal construction. "We put our hard-earned money in buying homes. If an audit is done and a list is put out, we shall not invest in illegal constructions," she said.
 
 There is a flip side to the initiative, though. Those investing in illegal structures would face the brunt. 
 
 Residents of an illegal construction in a locality have protested after an eviction notice was issued. "We even got bank loans-one of the factors proving that a structure has followed all the norms. Yet, we are facing eviction," said a member, who has written to the region development authority concerned, seeking relief.
 
 Credai, a builders' organisation, has supported the government's move. A member, Shantilal Kataria, said, "It will be a warning for fly-by-night operators. All stamp registration offices should display the list to alert customers."
 
 
