AHMEDABAD: Today the very appearance of city's roads prompts the question: why do smart cities fail when it rains? The recent rains have literally exposed the ulcers-potholes-that plague road construction in the city. One of the pre-requisites for a smart city is transparency and accountability in all forms of civic activities. Just a few heavy spells of rain have turned to rubble many of roads resurfaced roads at the cost of Rs 463 crore or pock-marked them with potholes. 

 For some unknown reason, since 2014, the   ( ), despite a standing committee resolution of July 2011, has stopped putting in public domain the names of contractors, the defect liability period of roads and information on the period when the same road was last resurfaced.
 
 The AMC road committee chairman Jatin Patel defends road engineers saying that they follow all rules laid down by the state roads and building department, including their tender terms and conditions for the past three years. But a simple visit to   city, where the state roads and building department supervises road construction activity, will reveal the level of quality of its work. 
 
 Most Gandhinagar roads have stormwater lines running along them unbroken. "Apart from minor washing of the top layer, most roads in 27 sectors of Gandhinagar area are ok. I can't speak for Ahmedabad. They may defend their case saying there are more vehicles plying on their roads," said a senior roads and building department official. 
 
 When TOI asked why no such information is put on the AMC website or project site regarding contractors who build roads, standing committee chairman Praveen Patel said: "I was told about such a circular and a standing committee resolution only recently by the engineers. We shall start uploading this information on the website soon."
 
 Another evaluation had revealed that in the past four years, contractors for many of the newly-resurfaced roads have not submitted their final bills. "This frees the zonal municipal city engineers of all responsibility for the poor work, as they don't have to issue contractors a completion certificate," said an AMC official.
 
  "Another loophole is that three-and-a-half-years ago the deposit required from contractors has been reduced from 20% to 5%. This happened in 2015," the official said. 
 
