NEW DELHI: Five traffic policemen were suspended on Thursday after they were found taking bribes from truck drivers on Tuesday night on the pretext of checking their   receipts.

 The policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector acting as a zonal officer, got caught when the traffic police received a complaint that at least five drivers were stopped near toll booths in west Delhi during a night patrol and asked to show the documents. When they couldn’t, the   took money from them as “entry charge”.
 
 After one of the truck drivers recorded the incident and forwarded it to the WhatsApp number of the traffic police, senior officers took up the matter. The drivers from whom the “fees” were taken were questioned. “We suspended three constables, a head constable and an assistant sub-inspector who were seen in the video footage. Departmental inquiries have been initiated against them,” said Narendra Singh Bundela, joint commissioner, traffic.
 
 Officers said goods vehicles entering the city were supposed to carry the document receipt as a proof of payment of GST. The bar code on this receipt is scanned by tax officials at the post. Traffic police personnel are present at the posts to keep violations like overloading and speeding under check.
 
 Following the complaint, the traffic police has formed a special monitoring unit to keep an eye on their own personnel and will put up its helpline numbers at public places asking drivers to register a complaint on the phone or Facebook. Junior officers, usually out on the field, have been told to be careful.
 
 “Teams will conduct surprise checks on personnel deployed on the borders. They will take feedback from truck drivers. Their activities will be monitored by a deputy commissioner of police,” said Bundela.
 
 The police have also appealed to everybody to report, on its Facebook page and Twitter handle, any incident of overcharging by traffic personnel in the name of GST . “Users can log into our social media handles to post videos and photographs of corrupt practices, which will be taken up,” said a senior police officer.
 
