With his love for R K Narayan and ‘Malgudi Days’, Sir   created an emotional connect with his fan base in India, pronouncing what fascinates him the most about this country: “Its sheer determination to achieve, and the relentless desire to be well-educated.”

 On a live Twitter chat session, TOIWrite India author Jeffrey   was asked an overwhelming number of questions. He replied to most of them, taking his fans and Write India enthusiasts to cloud nine.
 
 The chat stretched well over the limited time allotted, since Twitteratti couldn’t get enough of him, and Archer displayed an impressive streak of energy and promptness.Write India participants, budding authors and bibliophiles from across the country asked the ‘Kane and Abel’ author several questions, which he answered with great patience.
 
 From Archer’s favourite Indian author to his writing schedule, from his inspiration to his thoughts on love, writing, and an ideal weekend, Twitterati didn’t spare any questions that could hit him as a curveball. But the ‘Clifton Chronicles’ creator swayed with ease and answered most of them with his signature grace and wit.
 
 Through his answers, Archer exhibited a whole new facet of the author little known to his readers worldwide. He talked about how he was inspired by the likes of Charles Dickens,   Christie, and R K Narayan to write and mesmerise the audience. On being asked about his daily writing schedule, Archer revealed his fondness for a set routine.
 
 He writes “from 6-8 am, 10-12, 2-4pm and 6-8pm”. In between, he may go for a walk, eat, watch a little TV or indulge in some sport.
 
 Some even wanted book recommendations from the author and he gamely helped a teenger by picking out two thriller novels for him. Archer also unveiled the trick to combat writer’s block; he counselled being patient, as ideas will eventually come to all. The author made a surprising reveal that he’s never had writer’s block!
 
 Write India authors   and Ravi Subramanian also had their fair share of fan moments as Sir Jeffrey replied to their queries. The ‘In the Name of God’ author asked what kept Archer motivated after having written so many books, to which Jeffrey promptly replied, “New stories come to me all the time and I always want to tell them. Keep going.” An excited Nikita Singh asked his idea of a perfect day, to which Archer revealed his love for cricket, Italian food,and theatre.
 
 Following the immense success of the first leg of Write India, Season 2 kicked off with author Anand Neelakantan for its first month, followed by Ruskin Bond, and now, Jeffrey Archer for September. This season has seven more writers in line, namely, Sudha Murty, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, Manu Jospeh, Nikita Singh, Shobhaa De,  , and Namita Gokhale.
 
 
