Edited

 Trichy: A case against a male   of government   at Thuvakudi in Trichy for allegedly attacking a female patient prompted the medical fraternity there to protest against the woman sub-inspector (SI), levelling an allegation of ‘assault’ on the staff during the interrogation of the case, here on Wednesday. 
 
 The doctors’ association also threatened to boycott non-emergency services if there was no departmental action against the woman SI. 
 
 The Thuvakudi police filed a first information report against 27-year-old hospital servant Selvakumar of GH in Thuvakudi on Tuesday based on a complaint from Vijayalakshmi of Vazhavandhankottai. 
 
 On September 19, Selvakumar was assigned to issue out-patient tickets to the patients. When Vijayalakshmi asked for a ticket for treatment for herself and her daughter, an argument erupted between Selvakumar and the woman following which she went to the Thuvakudi police station and filed a complaint against him. She alleged that Selvakumar verbally abused her and threw away the notebook of the case history. 
 
 SI Nagavalli of the Thuvakudi police station took up the case which finally led to a compromise between the woman and the hospital servant. 
 
 Yet, the issue did not end there as Selvakumar allegedly pushed Vijayalakshmi down for dragging him to the police station. 
 
 “Despite settling the issue amicably, Selvakumar assaulted the woman outside the police station. A case was filed against him. He is absconding now,” said SI Nagavalli on Wednesday. 
 
 However, Selvakumar alleged that the woman SI assaulted him during the inquiry. 
 
 “The hospital servant alleged that he was assaulted by the woman SI during the inquiry and was lodged in the lock-up for an hour. The police can take action according to the law but they should not beat up anyone in the name of inquiry. So, the staff staged a demonstration to initiate departmental action against the SI,” said Trichy district secretary of service doctors and post-graduate association (SDPGA), Dr T Aruleeswaran, on Wednesday.
 
 SI Nagavalli denied the allegation of assaulting the hospital servant. “The accusation of assaulting him is not true,” she said. 
 
 Following an hour-long demonstration in the afternoon on the hospital campus, the doctors and the staff owing allegiance to SDPGA decided to boycott non-emergency services on Saturday.
 
 “We were told the police officers will be available for inquiry and take departmental action against her on Friday. In case of any delay, we will boycott work, except emergency cases, on Saturday,” said Dr Aruleeswaran. 
 
 
