NAGPUR: Schools can no longer demand any kind of written undertaking for admissions from students selected under the government-conducted Right to Education (RTE) Act lottery.

 Anil Pardhi, deputy director of education (DDE) of Nagpur division, said, “Every student selected in the lottery is entitled to get admission in the allotted school. No kind of written statement can be taken as a pre-condition to give admissions.”
 
 Pardhi’s letter, which will be sent to schools in a few days via the primary education officer, comes after reports that a few schools in the city were asking parents to submit an undertaking, ranging from an affidavit to plain letters, affirming the authenticity of address and income proofs submitted.
 
 Pardhi said, “If the school has any doubt over authenticity of these documents, it can directly get in touch with the authority that issued it. Students cannot be denied admission because they refuse to re-confirm the authenticity of documents.”
 
 Shahid Sharif, chairman of  , said, “There is nothing in the law which allows schools to demand such a written statement from students. This entire RTE lottery system has been created for underprivileged children and they are given those benefits after their documents are vetted by authorities. Finally, with the education department’s letter, students will be able to secure admission.”
 
 Since schools have not received the letter yet, none agreed to speak on record but a teacher told TOI that they had no other option but to take the undertaking.
 
 “The education department had told us that action will be taken against the school if any bogus admission is done. And frankly, there are many such cases where we feel suspicious but don’t have the resources to follow up and investigate. But of course, now everyone will follow directions given by the education department,” the teacher said.
 
 Another school owner said, “We were taking such a letter only from students whose documents raised a lot of red flags. What we basically wanted is to safeguard ourselves so that if tomorrow anyone cries foul over bogus admission, we can at least show this letter and prove that we had no role to play in this.”
 
 Another teacher said there was never any written directive given from the education department barring schools from seeking such a statement. “Nobody knew it was not allowed. It was never mentioned in any letter or rulebook given to us. So, it should not be seen as schools trying too smart,” she said. 
 
 The RTE admission process in Nagpur is scheduled to continue till March 20, and parents have to personally go and complete the formalities. The education department has warned that if selected parents forfeit their chance now, they won’t be allowed to participate in any upcoming   for 2017-18 academic session.
 
