CHANDIGARH: A three-day   on “3D modelling and printing” ended at Design Innovation Centre, UIET, Panjab University, on Saturday, Dr  , honorary director, Skill Development, shared that 49.9% of the India’s population will be less than 29 years of age by 2021, and it needs to be skilled and trained in various domains.

 He said 3D printing is one of the driving forces for the industry, which is looking forward for lean manufacturing. “Human resources trained on 3D printing can be the future workforce for industry. They can also build a start-up to offer localized services to the society,” he added. 
 
 Dr   from UIET discussed the modelling of 3D dental prosthesis like surgical guides, implants and dental clear aligners using different software tools. She emphasized on the importance of multi-disciplinary team work in health care medical device applications involving engineers and doctors.
 
 Dr Vijay Meena from CSIO discussed about designing and development of customized implants using biocompatible materials for various body parts along with their long lasting characteristics. Dr Anand Gupta from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, talked about maxillofacial surgeries. He emphasized how 3D modelling and printing could aid accuracy in designing of dental implants and its vital role in planning complex surgeries for brain and face. He also discussed about his some of the patients whose surgeries were really benefited and fastened due to 3D models provided from DIC lab of UIET.
 
 Dr  , who has designed and manufactured a low cost 3D printer in DIC lab at UIET, PU, interacted with participants and encouraged them to innovate by building such machines. A 3D printer designed by him is aligned to the Make in India programme of the central government. Dr  , an entrepreneur and educationist, encouraged participants during valedictory session by quoting examples of usage of 3D printing in the industry. He also motivated to students to think differently and be an innovator rather than just looking at the jobs. He also shared the views for collaboration between 3D printing facility of UIET and industrial associations.
 
 Professor Renu Vig, director, UIET, shared her vision to translate the technology developed by UIET into industrial products. She also encouraged the participants to get involved themselves with projects being executed by the faculty of department.
 
 Twenty students/research scholars and faculty members from different departments are selected out of 100 applicants to participate in the  . Participants have an interactive session with the experts and many ideas are discussed upon.
 
