A doctor with two medical degrees, 21 years of experience and a solid reputation among peers and patients carried a live cockroach in his pocket and planted it in an operating theatre during surgery to discredit the management.

 That’s the baffling suspicion of the dean of the Thane   where a cockroach interrupted a procedure recently and where cleanliness and hygiene standards are under scrutiny.
 
 C Maitra, who heads 500-bed  , shared the theory in a formal response to additional municipal commissioner Sunil Chavan, who had demanded an explanation after Mirror’s January 10 report on the infection-carrying pest’s presence in the OT.
 
 Instead of offering a commitment to improve cleanliness in the hospital, Maitra accused senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sanjay Baranwal of planting the crawler for a media stunt to portray her and the Kalwa hospital in a bad light.
 
 On January 6, Dr Baranwal momentarily halted a patient’s leg surgery to film the cockroach that had been moving around in the OT. He said the video was a desperate attempt to draw the management’s attention to what other doctors have also described as a breakdown of protocols for ensuring sterile conditions in the hospital, one of Thane’s largest super-speciality facilities.
 
 Hours after Mirror published the report, Maitra told Chavan that the hospital had good general cleanliness. But on Thursday, this Mirror correspondent found that a passage between the operating theatre and an intensive care unit had literally become a garbage dumping zone. There were piles of cardboard boxes, broken furniture, files, empty medicine bottles and other refuse in the passage, which most staff members and patients avoid using.
 
 One doctor claimed it was much worse before the management ordered an urgent cleanup on Tuesday fearing a surprise inspection by Chavan.
 
 “I am yet to visit the hospital, but I have a report from the dean. She says a cockroach ended up in the OT because of a mischief. She believes the surgeon carried the insect in his pocket and left it inside the room before contacting the media,” Chavan said.
 
 Mirror called Maitra several times and also sent messages requesting a comment, but she didn’t respond. She, however, told news channels that Dr Baranwal, 50, brought the cockroach to the surgery room to damage her and the hospital’s reputation.
 
 Dr Baranwal laughed at the suggestion that he carried an insect to a surgery he was in charge of. But his tone became serious as he sought to explain how risky it is to perform operations in unsterile conditions.
 
 There is already growing suspicion that poor cleanliness in the hospital has compromised patients’ care. Senior doctors and staff Mirror spoke to earlier this week said in the past month, a number of patients who underwent a procedure there had suffered from postoperative infections. Mirror is yet verify the information with the management.
 
 “As a doctor, it is my duty to bring such things [poor cleanliness] to the dean’s notice. But if she thinks I carried a cockroach to the operation room, I don’t know what to tell her now,” Dr Baranwal.
 
 “Before entering the OT, we undergo three levels of safety checks, which are aimed at preventing transmission of any infection to patients. The steps include putting away personal effects and wearing sterilised gowns. Does the dean really believe I completed the mandatory routine with a cockroach in my pocket?”
 
 Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital is attached to  , where Dr Baranwal is an associate professor. He has been serving as a full-time doctor with the   since 1996. He previously also worked at a BMC hospital.
 
 “I respect the dean, but it seems instead of addressing the issue of lack of cleanliness, she is targeting me,” he said.
 
 A resident doctor in the orthopaedic department had first spotted a cockroach in the operating theatre over two weeks ago. He removed and killed it before complaining to hospital authorities. Dr Baranwal said he also made complaints, but little was done to properly clean and disinfect the room.
 
 Chavan said on Thursday he would conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegations by the senior surgeon and dean, and ensure highest cleanliness standards at the hospital. “Whatever the issue may be, we cannot tolerate any lapses when it comes to patients’ care,” he said.
 
 The additional municipal commissioner has asked all doctors and staff members who were present in the OT on January 6 to meet him on Friday.
 
