NOIDA: How about walking in the rain while listening to the birds sing, one visiting variety specifically, this coming Sunday?

 NCR-based birding and bird-photography group,  , has organised a special birding session at the   on Sunday to spot and photograph   migrants arriving at the sanctuary.
 
 The special attraction for this walk is the Jacobin cuckoo. Birders are hopeful of catching a glimpse of this melodious bird, which is an annual monsoon visitor to Asia from Africa. According to birders, the arrival of the Jacobin   signifies the arrival of monsoon. These birds leave as soon as the season changes. The walk will be led by Mathew Joseph of Delhi Bird Photographers, a group of birders from  , Delhi and Gurgaon. The walk will start at 6am and end by 9.30am. Birders keen on monsoon birding should carry their rain gear, cameras and binoculars.
 
 “We are expecting to see the Jacobin or Pied cuckoo. This bird visits Asia from Africa every monsoon and leaves soon after. Other monsoon birds are also expected at this time,” Joseph said.
 
 “Other birds that visitors can expect at the bird park on Sunday are terns, black bitterns, yellow bitterns, cinnamon bitterns, golden oriole, blue-tailed bee eaters,” Arshad Hussain, an avid birder, said.
 
 Jaswinder Singh Warich, a regular birder at Okhla who lives in Noida, said one can also expect to see whiskered terns, river terns, little gull-billed and black-bellied terns and bristled grass birds that make their nests in grassland. “Eurasian cuckoos, grey-bellied cuckoos, Indian cuckoos, bitterns and water-cocks are other varieties one can keep an eye out for during the upcoming walk,” he said. 
 
 “The reason why birds migrate during the monsoon is because fish become plentiful in rivers at this time. Worms are also easily available. Birds plan their migration and time their mating during monsoon so that they can avail plenty of food easily. That way the newborns would be adequately fed,” he said.
 
 “The event is open to all avid birders. Registrations are open on our social media pages,” Joseph said.
 
