NEW DELHI: There was a sense of content as the   arrived here at their home ground ­ the Ferozeshah Kotla ­ on Thursday after a dominating win in Pune. In walked   for the optional practice session, with the rest of the lot polishing their striking skills at the nets.

 Having joined the team after recovering from hamstring injury, Mathews hopped around the premises, looking for drills to warm up. Full-fledged nets wasn't the priority for him. As the players began to clear the practice area, Mathews stood there, padded up and talking to DD mentor  .
 
 Soon, Dravid picked up a few balls, Mathews took guard and an intense throwdown session began ­there was no big hit or slogging around. Like most other teams in this  , Daredevils have been crippled with last-moment pull-outs. The gap created by the experience of JP Duminy and   has hurt the team. The Sri Lankan captain's arrival is meant to be calm nerves in the middle order.
 
 But there was Dravid doing what he does best -getting into the intricacies of batting nuances. Right after the first three balls were half-batted down the ground, Dravid went up to Mathews and adjusted his backlift. The next ball screamed off his bat. Another five minutes later, it was time to get the elbow position right. A seasoned Test batsman, worth 4470 runs in 65 Tests, Mathews looked at ease with his game after months of sitting out.
 
 Egos were kept aside and immediate match-strategies took a backseat. Purists would have loved to see how it was all about putting your head down and meeting the ball at the right point.
 
 That's what Dravid has been doing for the last couple of years at Delhi Daredevils with the likes of Quinton de Kock and  . The Indian talent aside, the foreign recruits have blossomed too. "There is no doubt that in the last one year, the improvement (I have felt in my game) has been the biggest of my career. He (Dravid) is one of the best to have played the game. It is always a great experience to pick their brains," Billings testified a couple of days back.
 
