HYDERABAD: With   section of Telangana Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, petitioners are forced to wait for months to get the   by the losing party towards compensation or fine. After fighting for years and finally getting justice, another big challenge the consumers face is the painful wait and uncertainty over compensation.

 “I had to fight for three and half years to get money from the builder who cheated me with false promises. Now, it has been more than three months since the builder has deposited my money (` `38 lakhs) with the court. However, they are not giving me the cheque and I am forced to run from pillar to post,“ said  , who filed a case in consumer forum in October 2013.
 
 Kumar said it's hard to even get in touch with the official concerned at the consumer forum as half the time staff is not `present' in the office.
 
 “As long as the money was with the builder, I at least got some interest, but now as the money is stuck in the court, I am not going to get any interest, but I carry the burden of paying EMIs to the bank,“ he added.
 
 Another consumer, Gopi G, who came down from London twice in a year to track the status of his case said that the absence of the clerk was like rubbing salt into his wounds.
 
 “It may sound ridiculous, but I actually came down from the   twice in the last one year to keep track of my case. Though it's very heartening to see that my money is in the bank, I can't use it. I just want to withdraw the money and pay off my loan, so that I can live in peace,“ said Gopi, adding that he had personally met a clerk who assured that things would be completed in a week or two.But nothing happened till date.
 
 Unlike Kumar and Gopi, Chandan V's money was deposited with the court only a month ago, but he says consumers have to do `something' so that court speeds up the process.
 
 “I don't know what needs to be done, but the consumers need to take some step and push court so that cheques are released immediately .Fighting for years to win a case is one thing and waiting for months together for money is another,“ said Chandan.
 
 The official said consumers are partly responsible for delay as they file cheque petition without details.
 
