NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old student was killed when a   hit his scooter in outer Delhi’s Mianwali Nagar late on Sunday night metres away from his house. Eye witnesses said the impact of the collision was such that the teenaged rider was flung several metres into the air. While fleeing from the spot, the car rammed first into a parked auto-rickshaw and then a truck. The cops had not able to trace the errant   driver even 24 hours after the incident.

 Eyewitness Narendra Kumar Khatri recalled being near the locality’s gate with his children around 11pm when he saw a silver-coloured Mercedes car hit the white scooter that Atul Arora was riding. “The Merc came careening down the road at high speed. After it hit the boy, it dragged his scooter for around 100 metres,” said Khatri. “But the scooter was the least of our concern. I quickly asked my children to return home and ran to help the boy who was seriously injured after having landed on his head.”
 
 A crowd gathered at the spot, but before they could help the teenager, he succumbed to his wounds. “The sound of the car hitting the scooter was so loud that I thought a gas cylinder had burst,” said Jagdish Kumar, a BSES employee who was in the vicinity. He said that he and some friends tried to chase the vehicle, but the driver of the Mercedes revved away.
 
 The people ascertained the victim’s address from the vehicle documents in the glove box of the scooter. Some of them rushed the boy to a private hospital, while others went to his house in Block GH-14 of Mianwala Nagar to inform his parents. At the hospital, doctors declared the youngster dead on arrival.
 
 Family members and the local residents collected some broken parts of the car from the accident site. “We handed these over to the cops to help them in their investigation,” revealed Ruchi Arora, the grieving sister. Rishi Pal, DCP (Outer), said, “We registered a case soon after we received a call about the incident and investigations are going on. We have recovered some artefacts from the spot and are examining them.”
 
 The youngster was on his way home after dropping a friend, Deepak, when the Mercedes rammed into the two-wheeler that was registered in his mother’s name. Police said eyewitnesses suspected there were two youths in the speeding car. “We have certain leads on the car from footage captured by a CCTV installed at a shop in a market nearby,” said a police officer, adding, “The footage, however, does not capture the actual moment of collision.” 
 
 
