The next time you are in a lush green meadow — or at a traffic signal — notice how cows eat. They chew on the same thing for hours and hours. No variety, just the same thing day in and day out. What I like to call ‘cow diets’ are those that are almost fully composed of one recurring ingredient. In other words, that is all you are allowed to eat.

  For example, the   is all about cabbage. And soup. It’s a seven-day diet and involves copious amounts of well, cabbage and soup. Day One doesn’t look very different from Day Seven, and the total calorie count will rarely exceed 1,000 calories. Whichever way you look at it, this kind of diet is severely restrictive. But we shouldn’t just look to the West for diets like this. Cows can be found closer home. 
 
  Kanika* (name changed) came in looking for a change in her diet. And soon, I found out why. When we were discussing the diet she was currently on and the conversation went something like this:
 
  
 
 
  Boiled moong dal sprouts and tea.
 
  
 
 
  Moong dal ki roti with moong dal tikki.
 
  
 
 
  Yeah. Moong dal.
 
  
 
 
  Boiled moong dal sprouts.
 
  
 
 
  Same as lunch. But for variation, I also have dessert...
 
  Thank goodness, I thought to myself. At least she’s breaking out of her rut.
 
  
 
 
  Moong dal halwa.
 
  
 
 
  Kanika was given a diet which did not allow her to eat fruits, vegetables or much else. It was just moong, moong and more moong. And it’s not that the diet was making her look tired. She had good energy levels and looked happy (two things I look for when I meet a new client) but she complained of ‘
  joint pain’. I asked her to bring her blood reports and get a serum uric acid test done. Her results showed that her uric acid levels had gone through the roof! Serum uric acid levels for a woman her age should have been nothing above 5.5. Her level was 8.
 
  When you have excess protein by eating purine-rich foods like dal, red meat or alcohol (purines are by-products of protein metabolism), it leads to the formation of excess uric acid (hyperuricemia), and this excess uric acid slowly begins to store itself in the smaller joints of your body, leading to aches and pains and, possibly, gout. And this is just one side effect of excess protein. As already mentioned in a previous article, too much protein is also associated with kidney problems, osteoporosis, cancer and obesity. This is just an example of a high-protein cow diet; you could have a raw veggies or fruit  , and your body will still suffer – just in different ways.
 
  
 
 
  If you are eating the same thing for breakfast, lunch and dinner, you have become a cow! Even if you feel full, please remember that your body is being deprived of vital nutrients and this is a kind of malnutrition. 
 
 - 
 
 
