HYDERABAD: The health department has been compromising on the quality of drugs supplied to state-run hospitals. This, despite reports of   being used in government hospitals, putting many lives at risk.

 Giving credence to allegations on service and drug quality in state-run hospitals, Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its report on five-year performance audit (2011-2016), pointed out lapses in procurement and distribution of drugs, apart from issues related to expenditure, equipment and surgical items in various hospitals.
 
 In damning findings, CAG report states while several drugs were not sent for quality check, some were sent to hospitals without quality-control test.
 
 The state government procures and distributes drugs, surgical items and other consumables required for hospitals through Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC). These are then supplied to hospitals through   in each district. In two years (2014-16), government procured drugs and surgical items of `237 crore.
 
 According to the rule book, the quality-check reports should be submitted within 15 days for tablets, capsules and ointments, the quality reports should come in within 28 days for IV fluids and injections.TSMIDC engaged six laboratories to conduct quality checks.
 
 CAG report said during 2015 16, TSMIDC procured 259 types of drugs and 85 types of surgical items. Of these, 193 (75%) types of drugs and 76 (89%) types of surgical items were sent for quality checks. Another 14 were given to the   for testing. In all, 52 types of drugs, 9 types of surgical items were not sent for quality checks. Even life-saving drugs and vital medicines were not tested. State health department officials claimed drugs and surgical items were distributed as they were essential to hospitals without waiting for quality test.
 
 The auditor also said quality reports were submitted for 29% medicinal items in stipulated time and 66% came late. Another 5% reports are yet to be received by TSMIDC.
 
 The audit report mentioned the case of   Eye Hospital cases where 19 patients were suspected to have been infected due to contaminated ringer lactate solution.
 
 Many essential drugs were not available at government hospitals. Of 635 essential drugs, no arrangements were made to procure 237 items. Another 197 categories of medicines were supplied by firms despite placing orders. Several drugs went out of stock repeatedly and there were delays in supplies. The Central Medicine Stores in Hyderabad, Adilabad and Warangal accepted medicines which have less than 80% shelflife. There was also abnormal delay in the procuring of and installing of equipment ranging up to 220 days and equipment lying idle due to non-availability of consumables and facilities.
 
 As per Bio-Medical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998, all outdated, contaminated and discarded medicines should be disposed through incineration, destruction and disposal of drugs in secured landfills. But all   (worth `1.21 crore) purchased during 2012-16 were lying in all 10 central medicine stores in the state without disposal as on March 2016. In Warangal, due to space constraint, expired drugs were kept along with other regular drugs.
 
