GAYA: Apparently fed up with complaints of anomalies in the appointment of deans, the governor cum chancellor’s office has issued guidelines to the universities to be followed while appointing deans of different faculties. The guidelines have been issued by  , principal secretary to the governor cum chancellor.

 In a letter addressed to the registrars of the universities of the state, Prasad quoted Section 26 of the  , says the statutes governing the appointment of faculty deans have been revised.
 
 The revised statute, according to Prasad’s letter, says, “For the purpose of appointment of dean of faculties, the registrar shall maintain a register of those teachers (including college principals) who are duly appointed as university professors or in the rank of university professor, faculty-wise arranged in order of seniority and the appointment of deans in the faculty concerned shall be made accordingly by rotation.”
 
 The guidelines further say in case there was no university professor or principal in the rank of professor, the appointment to the post of dean will be made from among the reader-rank HoDs of the faculty concerned on a rotational basis.
 
 In faculties like management and engineering where there is no postgraduate department, principals below the rank of university professor will be made the dean, said the letter. Seniority will be determined by the date of appointment as professor/reader/principal, the letter said.
 
 Meanwhile, following the demand made by   president Sunil Singh for the publication of university's seniority list and its prompt uploading to the university’s official website, the seniority issue has hot up in the university as the senior most teacher is likely to be appointed as interim VC on the expiry of outgoing VC Prof Md Ishtiaq’s three-year tenure ending in the first week of February. 
 
 As the process of appointment of a regular VC has not moved beyond the advertisement stage and even search committees have yet not been constituted, the time-taking exercise is unlikely to be completed before the end of incumbent VC’s term.
 
 Though the seniority list is in the process of being notified, official documents accessed by TOI show Prof Kusum Kumari (Philosophy) to be the senior most professor followed by Prof Dev Dutt Rai (Hindi), Prof Arun Kumar Prasad (philosophy), Prof Md Nasimuddin (psychology) and Nalin Shastri (botany). Prof Nalin Shastri is the registrar of the university.
 
 Kusum was promoted as professor on March 21, 1991. Rai became professor on July 13 the same year. Arun, Nasimuddin (psychology)   (chemistry) and Nalin were promoted as professor on January 20, 1992, August 1, August 27, and November 23 the same year, respectively.
 
