KOLKATA: Just when the Park Street McDonald’s store hit headlines by dramatically shutting down and reopening last week, American café bakery   on the opposite pavement has quietly downed shutters after four years of lukewarm business. Sources said the   Group plans to open a Spencer’s outlet at the address.

 The corner plot on Stephen Court, 18G Park Street, shot to limelight when RP-Sanjiv   firm set up the flagship MusicWorld store that gained iconic status on Park Street. When it closed 13 years later, in June 2013, it led to anguish among both music lovers and Park Street regulars. 
 
 Acknowledging the sense of loss, Sanjiv Goenka had pointed to economics to justify the shutdown. The business had become unviable following a shift in consumer preferences towards music and video downloads. But he promised the location would house another store that would be as exciting.
 
 In December that year, Goenka was personally present to welcome guests at the inauguration of the 4,000 sq ft, 140-seater flagship restaurant of Au Bon Pain. It pomised to serve a “build-it yourself” range and assortment of breakfast, lunch and dinner items such as sandwiches, soups, salads, breads, bagels and croissants, as well as hot and cold beverages. 
 
 The chain had arrived in India several years earlier, in 2009, with the first store in Bengaluru. It was Goenka's daughter Avarna who had developed a liking for the café while studying at the   in 2007 and convinced her father to bring the brand to India. 
 
 With a focus on freshness, quality ingredients and wholesome offerings, Goenka had bet on its distinctly different positioning of serving healthy and nutritious food at an affordable price. But with Flurys next door, competition was always going to be tough. Once the novelty wore out, it proved so. Though the outlet tried to reinvent itself with a renovation last year, it failed to do the trick.
 
 RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group officials refused to comment on the closure. But sources said plans were already afoot to open a Spencer’s outlet. Though smaller in size than most Spencer’s stores, the group plans to leverage the locational advantage to drive footfalls and sales. 
 
 
