WWE Smackdown Live from London, United Kingdom was kicked off by the WWE Champion   joined in by   accompanied by the   proclaiming the Age of Maharaja will begin at Backlash. United States Champion Kevin Owens got himself in the mix followed the Number one contender to the US title, AJ Styles. Baron Corbin was not to be left behind and was back after a suspension but Sami Zayn jumped Corbin and all six superstars went after each other. The main was then made - a 6-man tag match with Zayn, Styles and Orton facing Corbin, Owens and Mahal. 

 
 
 
 In what was supposed to be a one-on-one match, Natalya was joined by Carmella, James Ellsworth and Tamina at the ringside while Smackdown Live Women's Champion Noami and Charlotte were at Becky's corner. With Natalya reeling, Lynch went up top, before Tamina tried to interfere with Naomi and charlotte joining in. Lynch was distracted and allowed Natalya to pick up the victory.
 
  
  
 
 
 After Dolph Ziggler called out   once again, Nakamura came to the ring for a fight but Ziggler back off, before trying to jump The Artist. Nakamura countere and Zigler had to retreat. Later, the match between the two made with Nakamura set to debut on SmackDown Live at Backlash against The Show off. 
 
  
  
 
 
 After distracting the referee, a poke in the eye of Harpar allowed Rowan to hit his finisher, a swinging powerslam and pick up a surprise victory 
 
  
  
 
 
 With a top rope leg drop by Fandango on Vicktor the number one contender for WWE Smackdown Live Breezango picked up victory before being interrupted by the Champions USOS reminding Breezango about what is in store for them at Backlash in 12 days. 
 
  
  
 
 
 A Combination of finishers set up Randy Orton for the RKO on Jinder Mahal, but a distraction from the Singh Brothers on the ring apron helped Mahal to hit Orton with a superkick. Another combo of finishers - starting with Sami Zayn's blue thunder bomb on Mahal, Corbin's Chokeslam Backbreaker on Zayn, AJ Styles' Pele kick on Corbin and RKO on Ownes by Orton was followed by the Camel Clutch Slam by Mahal on Orton to gain pinfall victory. 
 
  
  
 
