MUMBAI: Less than 24 hours after its inaugural run, the luxury premium train   is booked beyond capacity. There was already a waiting list — 43 in chair car and five in executive class — for the train leaving on Wednesday morning. Seats for Friday and Saturday were also “unavailable“ as they were sold out within seconds, officials said.

 The train was flagged off by Union railway minister   on Monday afternoon and will leave CST at its regular departure time of 5am from Wednesday . It will have halts at Dadar, Thane and Panvel in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
 
 “Not a single seat is available for this week till Saturday ,“ a senior official said, adding, “There is a demand for executive class . In fact, there is already a waiting list for this class for next month's dates like June 3 and 9. Citizens are fascinated by the new train and want to experience the luxury features which are a notch higher than even the Rajdhani and Shatabdi trains,“ he said.
 
 Tejas, which boasts of a maximum speed of 200 kmph, will, however, have speed restrictions en route and will reach Goa in eight and a half hours (by 1.30 pm). It's average speed is 65 kmph, sources said. As of now, the fastest train on the Mumbai-Goa route is the Jan Shatabdi which takes 8 hours, 40 minutes to cover the distance from Dadar to Madgaon (see graphic).
 
 The earliest date when seats are available on   is May 28 (Sunday) when the executive class has wait-listed tickets, but 103 seats are available in AC chair car. On May 30, 522 seats are available in chair car while executive is again on waiting list.
 
 The train has a seating capacity of 990 seats. Said a   official, “The inaugural run for Tejas had nearly 50% bookings and this too was very encouraging. The response for this train is tremendous, and we expect it to go packed during monsoon.“
 
 According to CR general manager D K Sharma, tourists would find it better to travel by Tejas Express than by air. “You can start your journey from Mumbai early morning (5 am) and the route passes through the most beautiful landscapes which you can enjoy along with a host of commuter-friendly features provided in the train. Your vacation begins the moment you step inside the train. It will give you a `wow' feeling.“
 
