NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought a response from chief minister   on a fresh Rs 10 crore defamation suit filed by finance minister Arun Jaitley, after the AAP leader’s lawyer   used objectionable words.

 Joint registrar Pankaj Gupta issued the notice to Kejriwal and posted the matter for July 26.
 
 In his second  , the union minister has claimed that by calling him a “crook” Jethmalani — on instructions of Kejriwal — has caused him “permanent harm and disrepute”.
 
 This is a separate case from the ongoing Rs 10 crore   (DDCA) defamation suit against Kejriwal and five other Aam Aadmi Party leaders that Jaitley filed in 2015. On May 17, Jaitley and senior advocate Jethmalani clashed in the court with the Union minister taking strong objection to the word “crook” that Jethmalani used while cross-examining the minister.
 
 During the cross-examination conducted on behalf of Kejriwal, Jethmalani subjected Jaitley to “numerous questions, terminologies, statements that are ex facie abusive, malicious, offensive, irrelevant and slanderous”, the Union minister said in his new plea. Senior advocate Jethmalani had said: “I intend to show that this man (Jaitley) is a crook.”
 
 At that point of time instructing counsel for Jethmalani who is advocate-on-record for Kejriwal had submitted that Jethmalani had no instructions from the client to use the word even as the veteran lawyer maintained he had full authority from the CM to use it. The fresh suit alleges that “Jethmalani categorically stated that he used the word ‘crook’ on the instructions from his client (Kejriwal herein). He further categorically stated that he has received this instruction in his meeting with Kejriwal, and further stated that this meeting was held in absence of the advocate-on-record representing Kejriwal in the said prior suit,” the suit said.
 
 It also added that “Clearly, Kejriwal has brazenly and with a malafide intent to cause further prejudice, damage and loss to the name, reputation and credibility of Jaitley has deliberately used the terminology” while attempting to “gain cheap political mileage, with ulterior motive and malafide design, by causing further damage to the impeccable reputation of Jaitley.”
 
 In December 2015, Jaitley filed a civil defamation suit against Kejriwal and AAP leaders Kumar Vishwas, Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh, Raghav Chadha and Deepak Bajpayee, claiming that they made “false and defamatory” statements in the case involving the DDCA, thereby harming his reputation. Jaitley had sought Rs 10 crore in damages from Kejriwal and other AAP leaders in the   as well.
 
 He had claimed that the AAP leaders attacked him over alleged irregularities and financial bungling in Delhi's cricket association, of which he was the president for about 13 years.
 
 
