KOLKATA: As costs go, this acquisition will not rank anywhere up there. But try saying that to the state fire services department or its minister,  , who is also Kolkata's mayor.

 A torch - which costs all of Rs 40,000 and has recently arrived in the city all the way from Germany - is now Chatterjee's constant companion whenever he has to go on fire calls. It is completely water-proof and has a range of 800 metres to justify its hefty price tag, and the officers and firemen who have accompanied their minister on fire calls are as much in awe of this device as their minister.
 
 The acquisition has its re asons: two falls, in fact. The first happened at   on the night of June 11, last year, just a month after he had assumed office as the state fire services minister.As soon as he entered the room which had caught fire, the minister stumbled on something in the dark. An alert fire department officer prevented his fall and saved him from getting hurt. Again, when Chatterjee rushed to the closed Jessop factory on October 17 on getting the news of a devastating fire, he suffered a fall on the dark factory premises.
 
 They were two falls too many for the fire minister and he decided to acquire the state-of-the-art torch that is now there to guide him whenever he goes out on a fire call. In fact, he has taken to carrying it wherever he goes.
 
 Chatterjee even boasts of his new possession in front of  . “The torch, which I call a flashlight, is really of great use.Armed with this torch I can now go wherever there is a fire. Earlier, I found the ordinary torches of the fire department absolutely ineffective when it came to visibility of a fire spot. Now, I can rest assured that the torch will also serve the fire-fighters,“ the minister said. Sovan Chatterjee recently organized a demonstration of the torch in his chambers at the  .
 
 The German torch has impressed some of his colleagues in the civic body too. “It has more than a  , which trigger powerful illumination at night. Since it is waterproof, it can be used during heavy rains too. This torch is rechargeable and runs for a week on a single charge,“ said an employee at the mayor's office.
 
 According to a KMC official, the mayor is likely to order the purchase of another such torch to be kept at the civic headquarters for use by the KMC disaster management unit.
 
