Even after four decades, their music still resonates in the hearts of many music lovers across the globe. Back then, the music of this Euro-Caribbean band,   M, captured the attention of people from all walks of life. If peeps danced to their numbers like Daddy Cool and Ra Ra Rasputin in the most happening hangouts in town, songs like Mary’s Boy Child were favourites at Christmas gatherings.   was in the city a few days ago. Maizie  , one of the original Boney M singers, along with others, entertained the guests at a wedding ceremony with a one-hour show. We managed to have a quick chat with Maizie before the band left the city. Excerpts...

 
 This time, we came down to Chennai for a wedding, during which we performed for about an hour. The wedding was a very glamorous affair. And we performed most of our hit numbers from Rasputin and Daddy Cool to By The Rivers Of Babylon. We were brought down by Fly Albatross and they even took us for some sightseeing in Chennai. On Friday, the three others in the band went to   temple and St. Thomas Mount. They also met some school students and spent time with them. I couldn’t go with them then. I was a bit tired, so I spent the entire day at the spa in the hotel. I went out for some street shopping on Saturday and also visited St. Thomas Mount. We also enjoyed having some spicy biryani and south Indian meals here. The last time I was here was for a concert in 2015.
 
 
 In the last 40 years, music has definitely changed. Everything changes as we move from one generation to another, and music is no exception. If you look at the time of my parents, they enjoyed rock ’n’ roll, blues and jazz, and I grew up listening to them. Then came the 70s during which we (Boney M) were at the prime. Then it was the disco scene that was really hot. And I am happy that I belong to that period. We made a mark in the industry then. We made music that catered to people across all age groups. We had songs for children, then there were more serious songs like Rivers Of Babylon, and cool and dramatic stuff like Daddy Cool. From then to now, the shift in music has been a major one. Now, there’s hip-hop, rap, R&B and what not! However, I find it difficult to say that I love the music industry today, mainly because I can’t relate to most of it. Today, it’s just a lot of rapping and noise in music. But there are still some really good artistes like Bruno Mars, Beyoncé and   even today.
 
 
 Yeah, of course. The 70s music has that grit and longevity. And that’s why people still want to listen us. Many youngsters listen to us even today. If they grew up listening to their parents playing our music at home, they would still be listening to our music. In fact, at the wedding in Chennai, a few kids from the crowd came up on stage and sang with us.
 
 
 Our music has a mixture of elements from different cultures. But the base is strongly rooted in Caribbean music, especially, the use of steelpan (a musical instrument originating from Trinidad and Tobago) extensively. People vividly identified our music saying, ‘Oh, that’s steelpan and that’s Boney M’. Talking about Indian influences, I am afraid we don’t have any because we started touring India at a point when we stopped making new music. We were touring the world with songs that we had already made. People identified us for the peculiar sound we produced and we didn’t want to change it then. But I personally listen to a lot of Indian music on radio. If we were to do something new today, we’d definitely have Indian influences as well.
 
 
 The reason for that is simple — people are still crazy about the songs we made back in the 70s. I don’t know how they’ll receive something new from us. They come in large numbers to listen to us play those old numbers. It looks as if they really wanna go back in time listening to those songs.
 
 
