SALEM: Chief minister   on Sunday said he hadn’t invited Kavundampalayam MLA V C   to join his camp and added that the latter willfuly came to him as he was impressed by his ministry’s governance style.

 Arukutty, who was the first to switch over to the O Panneerselvam camp, on Sunday joined the ruling AIADMK (Amma) here in the presence of chief minister Palaniswami. 
 
 Palaniswami was in Edappadi to inaugurate projects worth Rs 3.92 crore in his constituency and distribute welfare schemes to the tune of Rs 21.11 crore to as many as 1,316 beneficiaries. He also announced new projects worth Rs 1.60 crore. 
 
 Pointing out that the late   had set apart Rs 20 crore to implement potable water project in Edappadi town, Palaniswami said, “Now, my government has extended the scheme to cover the entire constituency. The project will cost Rs 188 crore.” 
 
 The chief minister said his government has allocated another Rs 300 crore to desilt 2,065 lakes in the state. Earlier, he had announced Rs 100 crore to desilt 1,019 lakes across the state. 
 
 Expressing hope that his cabinet would complete the remaining term in office, Palaniswami said, “We have taken steps to address public grievances immediately.” He also said efforts to get a favourable response from the central government on National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) would continue. 
 
 The CM also assured that the government would sort out all the major public issues, including Neduvasal hydro-carbon project. “It’s a central government project, but we will stand by our people,” he said. 
 
 Defending detention of student activist Valarmathi under Goondas Act, Palaniswami said many cases were pending against her. “That’s why we detained her under Goondas Act,” he said and that his government wouldn’t let law and order situation deteriorate in the state. 
 
 Asked about the use of Tamil Nadu text books to make paper cups in Andhra Pradesh, the CM said he would look into the issue and order a probe. 
 
 Palaniswami also inaugurated a 45-day government exhibition organised by the district administration in   in Salem on Sunday. The highlight of the exhibition is stalls by various government departments to spread awareness among the public about their activities, ongoing projects, and welfare schemes. 
 
 There is an exclusive stall by the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) , displaying various measures taken to reach the public. Cultural programmes and competitions are added attractions. Special buses would be operated to the venue from various parts of the district.
 
