I got admission through the ECA quota as I was always interested in extracurricular activities. I opted for the Tourism Management course and I was part of the cultural society of the college. I was not at all a padhaku student. I had even told my teachers that I can't attend a 50-minute class. I told them that I would like to win competitions for the college and not attend classes. 

  
  Maniesh Paul got through CVS through the ECA quota and was an active member of the college's cultural society 
 
 I was also rehearsing most of the time so it wasn't possible for me to attend all the classes. The one thing that the students of CVS are known for is that they like to sit near AD's, which is like an adda for rolls near the college. That is something all of us do.
 
 
  
  
 
  As a DU alumnus, Maniesh had a message for the students. "My message is not just for the upcoming batch, but for all students, 'Whatever you do, do it with passion and give your best to it. Jo bhi karo, dil se karo and go for it'," he says. 
 
  
 Niloy Das has been living in India since he was in Class VI, and as he aims to work for the economy of Bangladesh, he decided to study Economics (Hons) at SRCC. "I have done my schooling at Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith, Deoghar. I have been an active member of the dramatics society in SRCC. That is why I didn’t realize how the first year got over so fast, especially during our competition season. I didn't get the time to study, but somehow managed to pull off the last semester," he says, adding, "I wish to work for Bangladesh’s economy. When I got decent marks in Class XII, I knew I would get into SRCC. And there isn't any better place than DU (SRCC, to be precise) to study Economics. India is a better place to learn, so I chose India over Bangladesh."
 
  
  Niloy Das
 
  Niloy says he likes the diversity of DU. "Students from all over India come to study in DU. The dramatics competitions gave me a chance to visit almost all colleges in DU, which gives you a chance of interacting with students from various parts of the country. India and Bangladesh - both countries are almost the same. But Delhi is much more liberal than Dhaka. Staying in two countries has given me a chance to know a wide variety of people and that gives me an upper hand many times," he says.
 
 
 
 Rama Sharma joined Hans Raj as an assistant professor in 1991 and took office as the principal in 2015. "I joined college in 1991 on August 1, and on the same day in 2015, I took over as the principal. I was the first woman principal at the college, and I wanted the college to be disciplined. Many thought that I was taking their freedom away, which wasn't true. There were rumours that I was going to change the name of Lover's Point (LP), but there was no such plan," she says.
 
  
  Rama Sharma with her students (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  The college is also the alma mater of Shah Rukh Khan. Sharma recalls, "It was around 1991 when Shah Rukh was shooting for the show 'Fauji' in Delhi. I was also associated with DD national at that time. We were at Modern School, Barakhamba Road, and I told him that I worked at Hans Raj. I asked him if he would like to visit the college some day. He replied, 'Ma'am jis din aap college ke principal ban jaoge na, tab aaunga college'. I told him, 'Fir toh iss janam mein nahi ho payega'. But when I took charge, I contacted his team and he didn’t say no," she says. SRK had come to the college in February last year to promote his film 'Fan'.
 
  
  Rama Sharma with SRK when he had come to the college in February last year (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  Sharma may have had some problems in adjusting with the students initially, but now the principal is their favourite, 'Rama ma'am.' "There are times when students protest. I join the protest and ask them about their problems. Woh aate toh hain protest karne par jate khush hoke hain," she smiles.
 
 
 Would you like to study in a 'good-looking college' in South Campus over North campus? While this may seem like the last thing on students' priority, it was the deciding factor for Delhi girl and actress   who chose Jesus and   over any college in North Campus. The discussion North Campus vs South Campus is never ending and Rakul's comment has certainly sparked a fresh debate between the students of the two campuses.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
