KOCHI: With the   for construction of the 135-million-litre-a-day (MLD)   treatment plant at   mired in legal tangles, the government has asked the   (KWA) to identify alternative plots for the project. Once the project is completed, Kochi and its suburbs, facing acute shortage of drinking water, will get around 35-40 % more water. 

 The first phase of the project, to be completed in 18 months, includes construction of a treatment plant at Kalamassery and laying pipes to take water from Periyar near Eloor to the plant. The project's first phase is estimated to cost around Rs 250 crore. The state government had earmarked Rs 235 crore for the project two years ago. Though the work on the project was formally inaugurated by former chief minister   in February, 2016, it couldn't be started due to disputes over land. As per the plan, the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) was to provide five acres at its industrial park at Kalamassery. The corporation was planning to take back over five acres leased out to a private firm citing violation of agreement and use it for setting up the project. However, the firm moved the court delaying allotment of land for the water project. 
 
 Now, KWA officials have been asked to identify alternative land for setting up the plant. "We will check whether another plot is available at Kinfra Park. Though we had tried to get five acres from the Government Medical College, it didn't work. We will also seek the help of revenue officials to identify government lands in the area," said chief engineer Jalaludheen H.
 
 The plant will treat the water from Periyar. A 7-km-long pipeline will be constructed to bring water from Eloor to the proposed plant. The treated water will be supplied to Eloor, Kalamassery, Thrikkakara and Maradu municipalities and Chellanam, Kumbalam and Kumbalanghi grama panchayats as well as Kochi city. The second phase of the work includes construction of overhead tanks and pumping stations in different parts of the city and its suburbs. "We will be constructing pumping stations and overhead tanks in different parts of the city, including west Kochi," Jalaludheen said.
 
 Meanwhile, Kinfra authorities said the land dispute with the private firm has been still pending in the high court. It was almost a decade ago that the Kinfra leased out the land to the private firm for setting up a convention-cum-trade centre with global standards.
 
  "As of now, there isn't any unutilized land in Kinfra Park," an official with Kinfra said. "The private firm doesn't have any claim over the land. We had extended the deadline for beginning the project twice. They sought more time. We will be trying to expedite the case and secure a verdict in our favour," he said.
 
 
