PUNE: From   and Luke Skywalker in Star Wars to Minions in Despicable Me and Joker in the Batman series, they were all there at this year’s Comic Con on the   ground --- mingling, engaging in mock battles and clicking pictures with the comics, movie and science fiction fans.

 Saturday was the first of two days of its inaugural run as a full event. Last year’s event was “smaller”, according to organisers.
 
 The characters had come alive, courtesy the cosplayers --- short for costume players. They participated in the cosplay contest. The winners can take part in the national- and later global cosplay contest.
 
 “I had sourced the material from various people I knew, and stitched the outfit myself. I also got foam and moulded the sword used by the character within a few days,” said Adithya R, one of the cosplayers, who works as a web designer.
 
 Others had come to look for merchandise -- the latest memes on T-shirts, comic books, comic arts, themed notebooks, posters,   masks, vintage strips and more. There were also  , Marvel, and Simon and Schuster universe.
 
 Indian comic artists, both established and the wannabes, were in demand.
 
 “Response has been pretty good as of now. People have been buying posters and my comic book trilogy in large numbers. It’s a wonderful experience,” said Abhijeet Kini, the creator of the Angry Maushi series.
 
 “I assembled my costume for more than a month -- from sourcing the raw materials, looking up the design, and putting it together in the exact fashion. It did not take me more than five minutes to put on the costume,” said Embhahlang Pakyntein, a student at Symbiosis.
 
 And there were those who were slightly older, generally not a part of Comic Con guest lists.
 
 “I came here because my daughter dragged me here so that I can help her participate in the cosplay contest. But I loved this event. I managed to pick up a few Batman comics I had read when I was a student. I also came across some Hindi comics. I never knew that people still create and read them,” said Shikha Jain, a HR professional in the city.
 
 There were some comics with a political tone but the chief guest at this year’s Comic Con felt there was no harm with comics adopting a political tone.
 
 “Why should there be a problem with political angles in comic books? It is just another vehicle of expression like films or television. Comics carry an unfair baggage of just superheroes and funny animals. They can educate people as well,” said David Lloyd, the illustrator of the graphic novel V For Vendetta.
 
 “I came here because of the merchandise, especially super hero T-shirts, and also because David Lloyd has come. I am a huge fan of V For Vendetta and his illustrations,” said Praneeta N, a student.
 
 What is Comic Con?
 
 Comic Cons are the conventions for geeks, as enthusiasts say. It is a mashup of comic books, films, TV series, collectibles, art, graphics, and a general environment of buzzing popular culture. Ever since it started 46 years ago at San Diego in the US, Comic Cons are a global phenomenon- and franchise- with five Indian cities already having held Comic Con events, Pune included.
 
