GURUGRAM: The   on Thursday submitted photographic evidence to the National Green Tribunal ( ), claiming that there is no   in  , where a construction and demolition (C&D) waste management plant is likely to come up.

 The NGT was hearing a plea filed by a Delhi-based NGO, Delhi Bird Foundation, seeking a stay on the proposed C&D plant.
 
 “There is no notified wetland in the area. In fact, the area has been listed as ‘utility zone’ in the Gurgaon-Manesar Development Plan. We have, therefore, submitted photographs of the area to the green tribunal in the last hearing,” said Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner, MCG.
 
 The green tribunal, nevertheless, directed the company, which is going to operate the proposed C&D plant, to not start operations till further orders. “The company has been directed to not start operations until directed by the green tribunal. All the documents submitted by the petitioner and the MCG will be evaluated,” said a lawyer, requesting anonymity. Basai wetland lies close to Sultanpur National Park. For years, migratory birds come here during winters. Besides, it is home to over 200 species of birds.
 
 The petition was filed after the MCG granted permission to a private agency in June to build a construction and demolition (C&D) waste processing plant over 3.5 acres at Basai to treat over 500 tonnes of waste every day.
 
 Lima Rosalind, an expert in conservation education, who is also part of the birders’ group, told TOI, “I love visiting Basai. The area remains submerged under water for major part of the year. It is, therefore, an important habitat for migratory birds, who stay there for at least 4-5 months every year. Any kind of construction will destroy the birds’ natural habitat. How can the authorities come up with such a plan that poses serious threat to the environment?”
 
 Amina Shervani, a Gurgaon-based environmentalist, too claimed that any kind of construction was going to have an adverse impact on the ecology of the area. “We cannot trust MCG anymore, especially after what it did in Bandhwari. It is stupid to make a C&D waste treatment plant in an ecologically sensitive area. The corporation should first make its plan of action public. But, I am sure that they don’t have any,” Shervani.
 
 Pankaj Gupta from Delhi Bird Foundation said, “We submitted a photograph on July 6, showing a wall submerged in water. MCG on Thursday showed photographs of the same location without water. However, wetland doesn't need to have water throughout the year. Also, the argument is not about if Basai is notified as wetland. There are hardly 2-3 notified wetlands in entire Haryana. We cannot say that if a place, which is an important habitat to many birds, is not notified as a protected area, it should be destroyed.”
 
 
