AURANGABAD: A delegation of vendors from the   area on Monday demanded that the civic body provide an alternative space for the vegetable market in the area.

  were opposing the ongoing campaigns by the civic body’s anti-encroachment department and said that they should be allowed to occupy space near the roadside till an alternative site is given to them.
 
 A delegation of hawkers including women gheraoed civic chief D M Mugalikar in the premises of the civic body’s main office area to press for their demand. Later, while taking up the issue with the civic chief, hawkers said they had been occupying the space for the past 25 years and so they should not be asked to vacate it.
 
 “The civic authorities are frequently conducting drives in the area and imposing fines to the hawkers who have no other means of earning their livelihood. If authorities wish to streamline traffic congestion on the spot, they should first develop a hawkers’ zone and rehabilitate existing hawkers,” one of the agitators said.
 
 In the meantime, municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar promised the protesting hawkers that he would look into the the needful.
 
 A team from the anti-encroachment department of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ) had recently held a drive on the Gajanan Maharaj Mandir road and imposed fine on the hawkers there. Authorities cleared the road for traffic, but two hours later the hawkers returned at the same spot.
 
 For the past many years, the civic body has been carrying out similar drives against hawkers at TV Centre, Pundalik Nagar, Gajanan Maharaj Mandir road and the Kumbhar, Aurangpura, and railway station areas.
 
 Though the AMC is yet to develop a hawker zone, it implements campaigns to remove hawkers from many commercial areas. Further, with no specific space earmarked for the hawkers, they are seen occupying space on footpaths, roads and public utility lands in Garkheda, Aurangapura, Shahabazar, Gulmandi, TV Centre, Peer Bazar, Shahanoormiyan Dargaha, Osmanpura, Gajanan Mandir area and railway station areas among other spots.
 
