Gurgaon: A day after they claim to have noticed over 100 trucks parked along a 1km stretch on Gurgaon-Faridabad road for over 16 hours, green activists wrote to the  ,   (MoEF&CC) on Thursday alleging the trucks were carrying mined stones from the Aravalis. Cops, though, refuted the claim, saying the trucks were carrying construction material. 

 “The trucks were parked here in a long queue between 4.30am and 8pm on Wednesday. The queue started from Ghata-Gwalpahari and extended till Gwalpahari police chowki in Faridabad. The area was finally cleared at 8pm, after the trucks triggered snarls. We collected photographic evidence and registered a police complaint at Gwalpahari police chowki,” said Vaishali Rana, a green  .
 
 Vivek Kamboj, an activist from the NGO Save Aravalis, called the   department on Wednesday and registered a complaint at the CM Grievance Cell. “Mining is banned in the region. It will lead to destruction of the ecologically sensitive Aravalis. It is shocking that even after police and a mining inspector arrived, the   drivers were not challaned or detained. This shows the negligence of the authorities,” he told TOI.
 
 The police and the mining department, however, said the trucks were loaded with ‘construction material’. 
 
 R S Thakran, mining officer,  , said, “The complaint was received in the evening. The trucks, from outside my district, were stopped by police as they were overloaded. It had nothing to do with my department. It was an issue concerning the transport department. We checked the documents, and the drivers were carrying valid bills,” he said.
 
 A cop from Gwalpahari police chowki said, “The trucks have no connection with   mining in the Aravalis. They were coming from another state.”
 
 Activists alleged authorities are trying to save the offenders. “It can be easily seen in photos and video that the trucks were not overloaded. Shockingly, the drivers were not even detained by the police,” alleged Rana.
 
 According to sources, there are more than 150   crushers in the area. In 2002, the Supreme Court had put a blanket ban on all mining activities in the Aravalis, spread across 448 sq km in Gurgaon, Faridabad and Mewat districts of Haryana. 
 
 Former conservator of forest (Gurgaon), R P Balwan, said, “It is not possible that the mining department remains clueless about blatant mining going on in the area. Turning a blind eye to the Supreme Court order amounts to contempt of court.” 
 
 
