JAIPUR: Rajasthan has recorded the highest number of children in Class I who failed to clear basic language skills test. The   (ASER) says that 73.3% of the children in Class I in Rajasthan cannot even read letters of the English alphabet. The national average for the same was 56.3%. Experts have expressed that there is an urgent need to work on improving this status, else the learning outcomes will be effected at higher level too.

  The best performance has come from Kerala which has 85% students who are able to read letters. 
 
 The same report has recorded 7% to 54% growth in several educational parameters in the state which paints a bleak picture in Class I. Figures say that 58.5% of them did not recognize numbers, while the percentage for the same was 46.1% in the country. Explaining the reason,  ,  , an NGO, says that the main reason is state has  .
 
 “Rajasthan has highest percentage of students not attending any pre-school. The percentage of such children is almost double than that of the state average with 51.3% (state) and 25.3% (country). This indicates the poor level of pre-schooling in the state. The situation of such children has increased marginally from 50.6% in 2012 to 51.3% in 2016,” said Kothari.
 
 The resultant effect of   can be seen on the learning outcomes in the higher classes. This figure explains that how poor learning outcomes due to pre-schooling affects the same in senior classes. It explains the reason that the number of dropouts is very high at upper primary and secondary levels. The state has also hinted at forming state level cadres of pre-primary teachers and clear allocations of resources. “Starting with 2017, subsequent year’s budgets must reflect higher resource allocation for early childhood education. This will signal the rising commitment to building early foundation for children’s education,” said Kothari.
 
 Experts have also suggested that children of age 5+ who have not been to any pre-school and are going to be in Class I in May 2017 should be taught at least 20 alphabets in Hindi and English and 1-9 digit recognition and counting till 20.
 
