KOLKATA: Torrential rain this monsoon or heavy fog next winter is not likely to cause flight disruptions at  . A technology, which allows pilots to operate flights in poor visibility, is being upgraded to a level that will allow aicraft to land or take off even when pilots can see up to only 50m. At present, pilots require at least 350m visibility to operate.

 Kolkata airport regional executive director (RED) Sanjay Jain said the instrument landing system was being upgraded from category II (CAT-II) to category III-B (CAT III-B). ILS enbles aircraft to land even if the pilot is unable to see the runway by using radio-navigation system, which provides aircraft with horizontal and vertical guidance just before and during landing.
 
 “The ILS is being upgraded along with the runway being resurfaced as it requires several lights in the touchdown zone, central runway line, taxi track and parking bay. Once functional, planes will get complete guidance from the runway till the parking bay,” Jain said. The high-intensity lights being installed in the freshly carpeted runway will tell pilots how much of the length is left as they streak across after touchdown. The central runway lights will be 7.5m apart against the 30m gap that existed in CAT II.
 
 While the CAT II ILS will continue to function at the Madhyamgram end, the CAT III-C ILS will be installed at the Rajarhat-New Town-end. The secondary runway has CAT I ILS. The cost of recarpeting the runway and installation of lights and equipment for the upgraded ILS is around Rs 70 crore.
 
 Sarvesh Gupta, chairman of the   at Kolkata airport, said the upgrade in ILS would be of huge help to fliers, cutting down on delays in the air as well as on the ground. “Every winter, there are at least 10-15 days between December and February when flight schedules are completely disrupted owing to fog in Kolkata. Once CAT III-B ILS, which allows operation in near-zero visbility is in place, these disruptions will be ruled out. Operations will get affected only when visibility drops below 50m. That may happen briefly,” said Gupta, who commands Boeing 737-800 aircraft. 
 
 Jain also pointed out that with visibility no longer being a problem, pilots will not have to hover over the city for long, saving fuel and the environment. “For passengers, it will be a huge relief as flights will not be diverted to other airports till visbility improves,” he said. The civil aviation ministry had announced ILS upgrade at 13 airports that are affected by fog in winter. Apart from Kolkata, the other major airports that will have CAT III-B ILS are Amritsar, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Patna and Lucknow.
 
 
