AGARTALA: Interrogation of the four   - Abul Kalam Azad (19), Parimal Saha (27), Mohammad Ali (37) and Sajibur Rahman (46) - who were detained by   with 2.3 lakh USD at the   on Tuesday has hit difficulties, with the facts established in the   

 Initially, they confessed that they were paid employees of a Dhaka-based money laundering company called 'Leon Sunny Exchange', owned by one Nizamuddin, and had been engaged since January this year. They also claimed they had drawn the money from one Somnath Dotra of Kolkata and were carrying them to Dhaka.
 
 BSF said they entered India through the land customs station in Srimantapur with a valid passport on Monday morning and went to Kolkata from Agartala by the 11.40 am Air India flight. They returned to Agartala the same evening by flight. On Tuesday, they were caught by BSF near the Bangladesh zero line. 
 
 "We could not find out how they managed to cross the high-security check at Kolkata airport. Neither the   nor the custom officials gave any satisfactory reply. Rather, custom officials are trying to convince us that till the custom checking at Srimantapur border, they did not have the consignment, and that afterwards between zero lines somebody had handed it over to them, as the stretch between checking point to actual border has a few houses," said a senior BSF official.
 
 The officials pointed to one statement of the arrested individuals who said they had crossed the Bangladesh border with 42 gold bars weighing 4.7 kg packed in condoms concealed in their rectum, which was not detected in border search or at the Agartala airport. After reaching Kolkata, they got the money in return for the gold, the officials argued. It was also revealed from records that they frequently visited Malaysia and Singapore for gold business.
 
 The detainees were have been with customs for two days as police refused to accept their custody for technical reasons, though BSF used the police lock-up for them on the first night. They have been quizzed by top police officials, customs officials and the BSF, none of whom have been able to come to any conclusion.
 
 
