VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as a massive function hall is being built on the   violating the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms, another private construction has commenced on   itself.

 Sources said huts are being constructed on the beach amid speculation that a paintball arena is coming up in the vicinity.
 
 Rushikonda is a popular beach which attracts tourists including foreigners due to the availability of surfing or wave-riding facilities. The APTDC also has provision for speed boats and jet-ski which, however, stops functioning from time to time either due to technical snag or workers’ strike. 
 
 Though the government had announced development of water sports in Vizag, the existing ones such as surfing lies in total neglect as the infrastructure and place for keeping the expensive equipment are in a dilapidated state.
 
 A source who frequents   Beach said, “When I visited the beach on Monday morning, I found stumps of palm trees erected on the place where containers used to be stationed. The removable containers used to contain certain water sports related equipment. Certain cement blocks have also been placed in the area. I heard from the locals that a paintball arena by private party is coming up over there but the radius is too small for the purpose. It looks like construction of some kind of huts are underway.”
 
 An employee of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) who coaches surfing and sailing to locals as well as foreigners in Rushikonda said, “Since 2002, I am associated with this beach and have seen the damages done to it in the name of beautification and development. No wonder erosion has taken away so much of Rushikonda Beach last year. For developing water sports, the government keeps giving permission to private people who construct whatever they want and do more damage. But no encouragement is given to set up an organised surfing school which can draw many more foreign as well as Indian tourists. Even my expensive sports equipment including imported surfing boards, kayaks, stand up paddle are all kept in a dilapidated thatched hut, whose thatched roof has partially blown off. For safe-keeping of the equipment, just 250 square yards of place is required but the government seems to take no interest in providing it.”
 
