PATNA: Contrary to common perception that the   order on Monday must have stressed   Lalu Prasad, his close associates said he was not jittery at all and enjoyed a sound sleep in night and a nap as usual on Tuesday.
 
  Insiders at Lalu’s 10, Circular Road bungalow also said he was consulting his lawyers but there were no immediate plans to extend his legal team.
  
  Four senior lawyers are handling Lalu’s fodder scam cases — Chittaranjan Sinha looks after the cases in Ranchi and Patna courts and Prabhat Kumar in Ranchi, whereas senior lawyer   along with Surender Singh handle his cases in the Supreme Court.
  
  Of the five remaining fodder scam cases against Lalu, one is related to Bhagalpur treasury and being heard in Patna while the remaining four are being heard in Ranchi courts.
  
  Though the Supreme Court has set nine months deadline to complete the trial in all fodder scam cases against Lalu, his close aides believe the remaining four cases are unlikely to be settled within the stipulated time frame.
  
  “I met Lalu ji this morning and he did not look much tensed. He was talking to his lawyers but did not sound panicky. The hearing in the four cases is already going on and one is in the final stages. At the max, he will be convicted in it and sent to jail, but we are certain he will get bail within a month. Besides, the CBI itself may ask for extension of deadline to complete its own investigation,” a close Lalu aide told TOI wishing anonymity.
  
  Lalu’s lawyer   also ruled out any extra trouble for bis client. “The Supreme Court has quashed the Jharkhand high court order in only one case. The hearing in the remaining four cases is already going on. Only the criminal conspiracy charges have to be added,” Sinha told TOI.
  
  Meanwhile, the entire Lalu family is refraining to say anything on the SC order. Lalu’s younger son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav refused to make any comment when approached by mediapersons on the sidelines of the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday evening.
