Unlike hair on the other body parts, facial hair are quite visible, and can make or break your look. If you find it tedious to visit a salon every few weeks, here are some simple and effective home remedies to remove your facial hair naturally.

 
 
 All you need to do is mix two tablespoons of sugar and lemon juice, along with 8-9 tablespoons of water. Heat this mixture until bubbles start to appear and then, let it cool.
 Apply it on the affected areas using a spatula and keep it for about 20-25 minutes. Wash it off with cold water, rubbing in circular motion. 
 Wondering how it works? Well, sugar is a natural exfoliating agent, and warm sugar sticks to your hair, not skin. Lemon juice works as a natural (and cheap) bleach for the skin hair, and also helps to lighten the skin tone. Say bye to the painful facial waxing!
 
 
 
 This is another method to replace waxing. Start with mixing two tablespoons of sugar and lemon juice, and one tablespoon of honey. Heat the mixture for about three minutes and add water to make the mixture thinner, if required.
  Once the paste cools down, apply cornstarch on the affected areas and spread the paste in the direction of hair growth. Next, use a waxing strip or a cotton cloth, and pull the hair out in the opposite direction of growth. 
 Honey helps in moisturising the skin, and hence this method is highly reccomended if you have dry skin.
 
 
 
 This method is quite handy. Blend two tablespoons of oatmeal with a ripe banana, and apply this paste on the affected areas. Massage it for 15 minutes, and wash it off with cool water.
 Oatmeal makes a great, hydrating scrub and is loaded with antioxidants that helps to remove redness from your skin. Apart from removing your facial hair, this paste will also give you a glowing skin.
 
 
 
 Mix a tablespoon of honey, lemon juice each with five tablespoons of potato juice. Meanwhile, grind the lentils (soaked overnight) to a smooth paste. Add all the ingredients and apply the mixture for about 20 minutes on the affected area. Wash it off once it is completely dry.
 This paste makes a thin crust that helps in hair rmoval. Plus, potato helps in bleaching the hair, making them less visible.
 
 
 
 Mix a tablespoon each of cornstarch and sugar with egg white. Apply this mixture on the areas where you have unwanted hair and peel it off once it is dry. Quite simple, isn't it?
 Egg white is sticky, and forms a thin film on skin when combined with sugar and cornstarch. This method is not suitable for acne prone skin as egg white contains Vitamin A which may lead to breakouts.
 
