JAIPUR: The assembly on Tuesday passed the Rajasthan Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, 2017, with a voice vote.

  Shrichand Kriplani said, the amendment was brought to amalgamate two laws—Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of  , 2006, and  , 2009—relating to the same department. The amendment Bill proposes to repeal the Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006.
 
 Replying to the debate on the amendment Bill, Kriplani said, it would support the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ and create awareness for cleanliness among the residents.
 
 
 
 
 Parliamentary affairs Rajendra Rathore on Tuesday said the state government had no data on illegal electricity connections at wells located in “dark-zones” but it had no intention to regularise these. Rathore said the energy department, in pursuance of a high court order, does not allow electricity connections for wells dug in dark-zones (areas where groundwater level has fallen beyond a parameter of recharging).
 
 Independent legislator Hanuman Beniwal, while raising the matter during zero hour, claimed there were 1.50 lakh illegal connections in dark-zones across the state and demanded that these be regularised. “The high court order was to ban electricity connections for wells dug after 2004; the court did not impose restrictions for wells that already existed in 2004,” Beniwal said.
 
 The Khinvsar legislator alleged that local revenue officers demand bribes up to Rs 4 lakh to verify wells that existed prior to 2004. “The government should, instead, take undertakings on stamp papers from farmers to verify their wells of pre-2004 times. It will put an end to bribery by revenue officials and will also get huge revenue to the exchequer,” Beniwal suggested.
 
 Replying for energy minister Pushpendra Singh, who was not present in the assembly then, parliamentary affairs minister Rathore said a committee under district collectors reviewed electricity connections for agricultural purposes at regular intervals. He said the government was trying to bring down transmission and distribution losses, which stood at 26% during the tenure of previous Congress government. “We have brought it down to 22.6%,” Rathore said.
 
 
 
 
 Independent legislator Anju Devi Dhanka stunned the house on Tuesday when she claimed to have heard the energy minister address his department’s principal secretary as “hukum” and plead to get a work carried out. “I found it very strange that the minister had to request the officer and repeatedly address him as ‘hukum, hukum’,” the Bassi legislator said, while raising the issue of thefts and corruption in the energy department.
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Rathore responded by saying that addressing someone as “hukum” was mark of civility. “Insulting someone for using the word ‘hukum’, is mean mentality,” the minister said, leaving the members stunned once again.
 
 Dhanka said the department’s personnel were so notorious that even ministers and ruling party MLAs were complaining against them. Rathore said the government will act against the officials within 15 days if it received specific complaints.
 
 
