MUMBAI: Taking note of the  , the   on Thursday directed the state authorities to conduct random checks to find whether “so called”   run in Maharashtra have proper licences and statutory permissions.

 “We make this statement in the light of the recent news in the media about the homeopathic private nursing home run in Sangli where 19 female foetuses were found buried,” said a bench headed by the chief justice. 
 
 It has directed the authorities to place on record action taken in this case. 
 
 The court heard a PIL by Pune-resident Atul Bhosale whose father died due to wrong treatment at a nursing home. He was shocked to learn that the doctor had failed the diploma of national board exams and was using the qualification to successfully run the home. Bhosale’s petition said the nursing home was not registered and had no licence or permission. He filed a first information report including for cheating and forgery. Under Right to Information Act he learnt that in Pune district out of 4,500 clinics and hospitals only 326 are registered. He moved HC for enforcement of the Maharashtra Nursing Homes Registration Act. The court had previously expanded scope of the PIL to cover the entire state.
 
 The judges questioned the delay of the government in adopting The Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act which came into force on August 19, 2010. “Incidents are still happening despite statutory provisions. When will you implement? For seven years you couldn’t do this.” 
 
 The government’s advocate said the matter is pending before the cabinet. Taking note of the state’s affidavit which mentioned that there was opposition from the medical community, the bench asked. “Can the medical community stop you?” In their order, the bench said that it is not satisfied with the explanation of the state at the time when Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Union territories have adopted the Act. “The resistance from one section of the community cannot stop the Act which was enacted taking into consideration the larger interest, especially the health interest, to the public,” it added. While directing the authorities to “apply their mind”, the court sought details of survey conducted by them to ascertain if nursing homes have statutory permissions.
 
 While directing authorities to “apply their mind”, the court sought details of survey conducted by them to ascertain if nursing homes have statutory permissions
 
 
