NEW DELHI: To the relief of many parents concerned about the safety of children in schools,   wants installation of   in all  , both government and private. A blueprint to fast track this measure is being prepared. The matter was reviewed at a special cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday.

 The meeting on Wednesday, held a day after Kejriwal’s return from a nine-day meditation course, also reviewed other flagship programmes. While focused on the safety of schoolchildren, the CM discussed education programmes, mohalla clinics, medicine counters at government hospitals as well as water and development in unauthorised colonies, pension and issues related to the ration disbursal system.
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the education minister, informed the CM about the plan to install CCTV cameras in all schools. He said other steps were also being taken to ensure the safety of children in schools.
 
 Kejriwal asked the education department to study the New Delhi Municipal Council model, because, he said, “all stakeholders, including parents, have expressed satisfaction at the CCTVs in these schools”. Besides CCTV vigil, smartcards are used in NDMC institutions to mark the entry and exit of students, with the parents getting alerts on their phones to show the time when the student reached and left the school.
 
 The high number of students who are not doing well in studies and are forced to study through correspondence needed government help, Kejriwal added. The meeting decided that the government would strictly prevent liquor vends from operating near schools. Even if they fall outside the stipulated boundaries but are seen to be adversely impacting any school, they would be shut down.
 
 The CM also reviewed the progress of mohalla clinics in government schools and asked officials to fast-track their next phase. Taking stock of the work of existing clinics, he directed the health department to keep track of complaints/shortcomings if any and resolve these by the end of the month. The CM directed that tests at these clinics should start at the earliest and any shortage of doctors quickly resolved.
 
 Similarly, he asked the chief secretary to remove all hurdles in the way of filling the vacancies in government hospitals. He was also keen that the health department put up more counters for free medicines at hospitals to ease the rush.
 
 While reviewing the progress of development projects in unauthorised colonies, Kejriwal wanted the finance department to make sure that the nodal departments of DSIIDC and irrigation & flood control faced no financial hurdles. He also asked for the list of all social schemes, including pensions and the ration disbursal system, to assess their implementation.
 
 A statement from the CM’s office later said that the ministers presented included Sisodia, Satyendar Jain, Gopal Rai, Rajendar Pal Gautam, Imran Hussain and Kailash Gahlot.
 
