AURANGABAD: Registering their protest against NCP MP Supriya Sule’s appointment as trustee of the  , several groups led by former students including those led by   Imtiyaz Jaleel have started coming together.

 Several student groups and college   are threatening to take to the streets, if the decision of appointing   as trustee is not revoked. Witnessing discontent amongst citizens, especially in the old city, NCP workers have begun damage control by reaching out to people and trying to convince them about how the   would blossom under her leadership.
 
 MLA Imtiyaz Jaleel said, “The college management should have roped in some one form an educational background instead of a politician. The colleges are for imparting education and should not be treated and eyed upon as vote banks.”
 
 Jaleel has also alleged that a huge amount of money has changed hands for giving entry to MP and daughter of NCP chief Sharad Pawar into the trust. The college is built on a prime land sizing about 30 acres located on the Delhi Gate to Harsul Road and is owned by Maharashtra State Board of Wakf.
 
 Medical professional Afzaal Khan said, “There is a particular group within the college that has played in the hands of NCP leaders and paved way for Supriya Sule’s entry into the college.”
 
 A former student of the college said that initially the management refused to budge to the demands of the NCP. Soon, several criminal cases were registered against the college and its management to pressurise them.
 
 Another student leader said, “Apart from the vote bank, the politicians could be eyeing the college premises as it has a market valuation running into several crores.”
 
 Maulana Azad Education Society, which has 17 colleges under its purview and is the largest group of minority colleges in the region, offers graduate and post graduate degrees to thousands of students. It has come in the eye of storm after Sule silently gained entry into the society, which was established by the former MP and eductionist Rafiz Zakaria.
 
 
