KOLKATA: The   government on Tuesday started issuing orders denotifying stretches of state highways passing through populous municipalities. The orders, in effect, allow   vends to resume selling after having been forced to down shutters since last week’s Supreme Court order. TOI, in its Tuesday edition, had reported how the state government was thinking of such a route to beat the SC-mandated ban on sale of liquor from outlets within 500 metres of all highways.

 Curiously, the state PWD website says the denotification directive was signed on March 16, a fortnight before the apex court’s final verdict. A major portion of state highways wou-ld gradually be converted to “district urban” roads, officials told TOI.
 
 Bars and off shops, however, did not bother much with the niceties of nomenclature and the apparently “back-dated” order. They jumped at the offer, reopening counters one by one on Tuesday afternoon as soon as the written orders started being issued from district administration offices.
 
 “We got a whiff of the denotification move on Monday night itself. But we got the written order on Tuesday and so had to wait,” said the owner of an off shop on the Uttarpara-Boinchi stretch of G T Road in Hooghly. This stretch used to be State Highway-6 till the district administration’s denotification came around 3pm on Tuesday. Hooghly district magistrate   told TOI that the administration had denotified a section of the road. “Its character now will be like any other PWD-managed road,” he said.
 
 The denotified stretches of State Highway-3 in North 24-Parganas and Kalyani in Nadia have at least 30 off shops and 21 bars. “A stroke of the pen has saved all these establishments,” said local liquor sellers’ association office-bearer  .
 
 The state government earns around Rs 4,000 crore in revenue every year from the sale of liquor. About 25%, or Rs 1,000 crore, come from vends along highways. These outlets directly employ about 10,000 people. Both the government and the liquor lobby have spoken about how the Supreme Court’s decision could end up hurting both the public exchequer as well as 10,000-odd families. Bengal has about 2,140 liquor vends along highways and some 700-800 outlets can be saved from permanent closure if state highways passing through municipalities are denotified, say government officials.
 
 Like in Hooghly in the south of the state, bars and liquor off shops resumed normal activity from Tuesday afternoon at Bengal’s northernmost corner. An Alipurduar district administration official said a three-kilometre stretch of the  , starting from Alipurduar and going all the way up to Assam, had been denotified. 
 
 Sudipta Banerjee, owner of a bar on this stretch, welcomed the move. “The livelihood of so many people will be saved because of the government decision,” he said. This three-kilometre stretch itself has four off shops and one bar. Alipurduar district magistrate D P Karnam said it was the prerogative of the PWD. 
 
 The tourism-dependent districts of Darjeeling and Kalimpong, too, got partial relief as two stretches of State Highway-12, in Mirik and and Kalimpong, were denotified. A 3.3-kilometre stretch of Mirik ceases to be a state highway and, in Kalimpong, it is a 5.5-kilometre stretch that has more than a dozen liquor establishments.
 
 West Bengal Foreign Liquor, Country Spirit (Off & On) and Hotel Owners ' Association secretary   welcomed the move and appreciated the government initiative for saving the livelihood of a few thousand people in the state. 
 
 (With inputs from Falguni Banerjee, Pinak Priya Bhattacharjee and  )
 
