AHMEDABAD: A magisterial court at the Mirzapur rural court campus has summoned the city crime branch chief and joint commissioner of police,  , after holding him accused of kidnapping,  , extortion and criminal conspiracy.

  Bhatt is also charged with criminal intimidation and for intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace.
 
 The court has initiated criminal proceedings against Bhatt and three others on basis of a complaint filed by a city-based land dealer Kaushik Vankani. 
 
 After holding a court inquiry, judicial magistrate V P Acharya came to a conclusion that there is a prima facie criminal offence revealed in the case and registered a criminal case against Bhatt and others. The court then issued a summons against all four accused persons. Further proceeding is scheduled on March 30.
 
 In this case, Vankani filed a complaint with the court in June last year after his grievance was not redressed by the government authorities. He complained that in connection with a land deal near Vadodara city, three persons – Jinabhai Dudhat, Rakesh Dugat and Ghanshyam Puraniya had threatened him and asked him to shell out a disputed amount of Rs 85 lakh. They claimed that the crime branch head, Bhatt, knew them well and that he has framed many people. He was abducted from Drive-in Road and taken to the crime branch headquarters at Gaekwad Haveli on June 16, 2016 stated the complaint.
 
 The complainant further revealed that Bhatt had set a deadline of 10 days for him to pay the amount. “When I was taken to Bhattsaheb’s chamber, he told me ‘You have got 10 days, and the 11th day will be mine’ (Das divas tara ane agyarmo divas maro). Pay the money to Jinabhai”, Vankani’s complaint reads. He was allowed to go home thereafter.
 
 Vankani filed this complaint eight days later. The chief judicial magistrate recorded his statement on July 19, 2016 and ordered a court inquiry. On January 10, after completion of inquiry, the court said that the complaint was not of a civil nature, and ordered initiation of criminal proceedings under sections 363, 365, 368, 386, 504, 506(2), 120B, 114, 166 and 441 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the four accused and issued summons to them.
 
