KOLKATA: How do we react when someone close to us is diagnosed with cancer? Inexplicable pain, despair, shock and darkness at the end of the tunnel. Imagine the burden of mental agony the affected has to go through for along with the physical suffering. Treatment for cancer has advanced no doubt. But how many doctors care to cure the mind along with treating the disease?

 “To be honest, we are very mechanical in our approach concentrating on the clinical aspect of the ailment. We don't even think what must be going through the minds of the patient,“ said Dr Aniruddha Dam, stressing on the importance for counselling along with medical treatment.
 
 The chief of head-and-neck onco surgery wing at   was speaking on World Head and Neck Cancer Day at   on Thursday .The hospital has launched a counselling cell for cancer patients and their family members.
 
 “Cancer affects the whole family . The patient might get into depression and family members may find its path lost. There is the need to talk to them regularly that ultimately will help them in the battle,“ said Dr J R Ram, senior consultant psychiatrist of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 In fact, there have been cases in the recent past where cancer patients have committed suicide in the city. Apart from the painful treatment process and side effects, the financial burden becomes too heavy for many.
 
 Keeping in mind to create a support system,   (NSH),  , also has launched head-and-neck cancer support group. Comprising cancer survivors and those still battling, the group will aim to motivate patients to fight the disease emotionally and financially.
 
 “The support group in will be divided into three sub-groups. While one will lobby with policymakers on tobacco issues, the second one will have survivors motivating the affected. The third sub-group will raise funds to help treatment of patients who need financial support because cancer treatment is very costly,“ said Dr  , head-and-neck cancer surgeon and oncologist at NSH.
 
 The group will meet every Saturday in the presence of doctors, discuss the progress of current projects and also chalk out future plans.
 
 “Along with providing quality cancer treatment, we always strive to offer support to the society. We can stand besides many who needs us through this support group,“ said R Venkatesh, regional director, Narayana Health.
 
