AURANGABAD: Water expert Pradeep Purandare on Monday asked people from   to raise their voice against separation of Upper Godavari, Mula and   while deciding on the water management for Jayakwadi major irrigation project as proposed in the Integrated State Water Plan (ISWP).

 Delivering a lecture on Tale of Jayakwadi at Dr   (BMAU), Purandare stressed on the need for formation of an action committee of people from upstream and downstream areas of Jayakwadi to resolve the issues related to equitable distribution of water.
 
 On objectionable ISWP provision, Purandare said the proposed move would inflict another injustice on Marathwada that struggles due to relatively lower rainfall.
 
 “People from Marathwada raised no voice when a chain of dams were built in upstream areas of Jayakwadi. While these dams have been causing deficit in discharge towards Jayakwadi, the proposal to separation of Upper Godavari, Mula and Pravara Rivers would further reduce the inflow towards the major dam that supplies water to several parts of the region,” he said.
 
 Purandare, who is associated with several government committees and panels, also said proposed separation would make equitable distribution of water next to impossible. “We have already met chief minister   and apprised him about our apprehensions. However, public at large need to raise their voice on this issue,” he said.
 
 During his lecture, Purandare said the action committee of people could find out solution to water issues in an amicable way.
 
 “Farmers and commoners are going to suffer eventually as major stake of water would be claimed by breweries from upstream areas and industries coming under DMIC in downstream areas in the event of crisis. Therefore, action committee of people can serve as apolitical movement that can exert pressure on government for equitable distribution of water,” he said.
 
 In his lecture, the water expert also presented range of facts to substantiate his claims that Jayakwadi project has become less effective in delivering its purpose envisaged during the time of genesis due to varied reasons, including non-following the principle of equitable distribution of water.
 
