Krishnagiri: Around 100 acres of paddy crops submerged in water after a part of a wall of the canal on the left side of Kelavarapalli dam broke near Hosur in Krishnagiri district on Sunday evening. The farmers claimed that the paddy crops, which were supposed to be harvested in a couple of weeks, were completely destroyed due to the floodwater.
 
 R Ganesh, 38, one of the farmers at   where the wall broke, said, "The side wall of the canal of Kelavarapalli dam had broken many a times. This time, the range of loss is high as the floodwater submerged around 100 acres of fertile land," he said. 
 
 Another farmer S Manjunath, 34, said farmers have faced huge loss due to negligence on the part of public works department (PWD). "The right side of the canal wall had been broken a year ago. At the time, the PWD officials simply placed sand bags instead of constructing a new wall," he said. He said now left side of the canal wall had broken.
 
 The Kelavarapalli dam was constructed across River Thenpennai near Hosur. About 8,000 acres, including 5,918 acres along the left canal and 2,082 acres along the right canal, benefit from the dam. The panchayats of Boodinatham, Bethamuthali, Muthali, Attur, Kadirepalli, Marachandiram, Kothur, Moranapalli, Thorapalli, Thrichipalli, Kamanthotti, Thinnur, Subagiri, Koneripalli, Chinnakollu, Bethakollu, Samanapalli, Chennathur, Attakurikki, Nallakanakothapalli and Marthandapalli get water from the dam for drinking purpose. Left canal ends at Soolagiri while the right canal at Thorapalli.
 
 Farmers in these panchayats cultivate crops including paddy, sugarcane, carrot, beet-root, tomato and cabbage. Based on the state government's direction, the PWD officials are now releasing about 40 cusecs of water from the dam for irrigation purposes from August, 2016, for 150 days. 
 
 It is learned that water was flowing in the canal when the side wall broke on Sunday. "The entire water flowing in the left canal, suddenly started gushing outside the canal due to the wall collapse," farmers said.
 
 The PWD officials rushed to the spot and placed sand bags to stop water flowing from the canal. "We have been taking steps to construct side wall immediately," they added.
 
 Meanwhile, the farmers urged the district administration and the state government to give compensation for their crops. "We want the district administration and the government to take the crops damage assessments properly," they said.
 
