PATNA: The   government on Thursday adopted a carrot-and-stick approach towards the agitating schoolteachers with education minister Ashok Choudhary appealing to them to end their stir and chief secretary   ordering FIR against them for disrupting the evaluation work of   (BSEB)’s classes X and XII examinations of 2017.
 
  The evaluation work has been hampered as teachers of unaided schools and colleges as well as those on contract basis in government schools have been agitating since March 17 and April 1 respectively. Their demands include equal pay for equal work, among other things.
  
  Addressing the DMs and district police chiefs through videoconferencing, the chief secretary said the evaluation of answer sheets was the government’s top priority as it involved the future of students.
  
  “FIRs can be lodged against the teachers who are forcefully stopping others to join the evaluation duty. Prohibitory orders have been promulgated under Section 144 around the evaluation centres, and those agitating in the area should be booked for violating Section 144,” the chief secretary was quoted by a DM as having said.
  
  BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the DMs were also directed to identify the institutes where the answer books were not being evaluated, and withhold their grants. The chief secretary also asked the DMs to get the teachers’ sit-ins filmed as a proof of break in their service for not performing their duty.
  
  Their salary should be deducted and departmental inquiry initiated against them, the chief secretary said.
  
  The government, meanwhile, is planning to rope in schoolteachers of private schools for the purpose. It has also relaxed rules and given the go-ahead to engage even newly appointed teachers in the evaluation work. Rules otherwise say an evaluator should have three-year experience as a teacher.
  
  Minister Choudhary said the government would sympathetically consider the genuine demands of the schoolteachers. “Please join your duty keeping in view the fact that your stir will adversely affect the future of students,” he said in an appeal on Thursday.
  
  However, the   cried foul. “We are protesting in a peaceful way, but the government is misusing its powers to create fear,” association general secretary   said, adding the government’s stand might worsen the situation. 
