PATNA: Even as Patna University (PU) is readying for its centenary celebrations scheduled in the first week of October, vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh has appealed to its alumni to extend a helping hand towards all-round development of this seventh oldest university in the country. A meeting of the alumni will be convened shortly.   Addressing a meeting of the deans of faculties, heads of post-graduate departments and principals of colleges recently, the VC had asserted that PU would reach out to its alumni for contributing funds for the award of gold medals to the toppers. The gold medals to be awarded to the scholars would be of 24 carat make and named after the donor or his/her representative. For this a donor would be required to donate Rs 3.50 lakh to be deposited in PU’s fixed deposit account and the annual amount of interest earned on it would meet the cost of gold medal. This practice has already been adopted in Nalanda Open University, he had pointed out.    According to PU sources, in earlier times, the costs of gold medals were met in the form of endowments and donations received by the university from time to time. But with soaring prices, the amount of interest yielded by these “funds” became so meagre that the university found it difficult to buy even silver medals with it.    Ever since its inception in 1917, several philanthropists have contributed significantly to the growth of PU. As early as in 1925, Raja Devki Nandan Prasad of Munger donated a sum of Rs 1.75 lakh for the construction of Wheeler Senate House. The Maharaja of Darbhanga also contributed liberally to the development of PU. The Darbhanga House complex accommodating most of the post-graduate departments of humanities and social science faculties used to be the residential palace of the Maharaja.    Another great benefactor of the university was Sir Ganesh Datta Singh, who donated much of his belongings to the university. He created two funds – Sir Ganesh Datta Loan Scholarship Fund in 1931 and Sir Ganesh Datta Singh Trust Fund in 1933.    Even in recent times, some alumni have come forward to the help of their alma mater. Former Lok Sabha member Ranjan Yadav donated more than Rs 30 lakh from MP's fund for the construction of geological museum-cum-auditorium at Patna Science College . The second floor of an examination hall of the college was constructed and furnished with the generous contribution of Anita Sharma, wife of Late Chandrashekhar Sharma, a renowned mathematician and an alumnus of the college. Sharma donated Rs 25 lakh for the construction of the hall.    Union IT and telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, an alumnus of Patna College, had donated sufficient funds from MP’s quota for the renovation of seminar hall of PU history department. Cine star and BJP MP Shatrughna Sinha, an alumnus of Science College, also volunteered financial help for college development during his recent visit to the college.    The VC hopes that more and more such alumni would come forward to PU’s help soon.