Leader of opposition   on Friday said   (JMM) and remaining   will not stop its agitation till the government withdraws the amendments to the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and Santhal Pargana Tenancy (SPT) Acts. Talking to Dhritiman Ray, Soren said the protests will continue till 2019 if needed. Excerpts from the interview:

 
 
 
 Such protests did not happen for the first time in the history of the state assembly. The legislators were suspended for unruly protests against the passage of the CNT and SPT Acts. The amendments to the twin Acts is the biggest issue in the state and directly concerns the tribal community. The JMM legislators, who crossed the line, are first timers. The sentiment regarding the issue is so high that civic forums and common people are joining our protest against the passage. One must also not forget under which circumstances the protests happened. But all said and done, it is important to maintain the dignity of the House. 
 
 
 
 Let me make it clear that the issue (CNT-SPT Act amendments) is still burning. This amendment is directly affecting a major chunk of the state’s population. For whom does the planning work? For whom are the roads, bridges and other infrastructure built? It is for the adivasis and moolvasis of the state. This decision has threatened to end the existence of the people. Now, will the adivasis not save their existence? They will. And we are with them. Every other issue is irrelevant unless the current crisis is resolved. 
 
 The bill has been sent through the assembly and it has to be withdrawn by the assembly itself. The situation will persist if the government does not withdraw the bill. We will protest inside and outside the assembly till 2019 if the CNT-SPT Act amendment bill is not withdrawn. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The government is, on the other hand, talking about non-agricultural activities such as construction of shopping malls and multiplexes. A tribal cannot make a five star hotel or become a goldsmith. There is a social trend. The tribal people can engage in agriculture and sporting activities. That apart, the twin acts already allow the landholders to conduct non-agricultural activities in the non-agricultural land itself without changing the nature of the land. If the government was really concerned about us, it would have increased the ambit of non-agricultural activities that could be conducted on the lands. But they have not done that.
 
 
 
 
 It is they who were in power earlier. The previous BJP governments had signed 1,000 MOUs. How many projects have seen the light of te day? This is a government that refuses to learn from its mistakes. It talks about moving forward but does not have a concrete plan for it. And what more do you expect from a chief minister who refuses to listen to his cabinet ministers and his MLAs? He works in his whims and fancies.
 
 
