BENGALURU: The   being little more than a stone’s throw away, it is only understandable that residents of HSR Layout long to stretch their legs there on a leisurely morning stroll. But the poor condition of the lake, and the thwarted efforts of the Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority (KLCDA) to revive it, have constantly deferred the realization of their dream. 

 TOI has learnt that KLCDA has invited tenders for supervision, project management and quality control – all of which are geared towards reviving the lake – for the fourth time, since there were no bidders on the past three occasions. Although tenders for civic works received no response, works such as dewatering and fencing have already commenced. The lake that was once spread over 149 acres now sits on just 95 acres. Unchecked flow of sewage, encroachments are among the problems ailing the lake.
 
 Executive engineer at KLCDA Velumani R told TOI that the organization was looking into the lack of interest among agencies to bid for the project.
 
 “Our stringent rules could be one of the reasons why many bidders are being eliminated. We have a detailed project report (DPR) for rejuvenation of the lake ready. This includes desilting, and bund improvement. Development of a sedimentation pond, silt trap, chain link protection and automated flood control gates are also on the cards. The estimated cost of the entire project is around Rs 16 crore. We are hoping to get bidders for this tender. The last date for submitting bids for this tender is January 30,” Velumani added.
 
 As part of the overarching development plan, a number of amenities including plat area for the children, landscaping, toilets, a cabin for gate security, floating fountain, etc, would be taken up, sources at KLCDA said. “We will also build an immersion tank that can be used by the public during the Ganesha Chaturthi festival,” said a source.
 
 Suresh B, a member of the Agara Lake Protection and Management Society, expressed his happiness at the rejuvenation work finally taking off. “We agree with the DPR, which includes development of amenities for visitors. Dewatering, and other basic works have already started. We hope things move quickly from here,” he added.
 
