VARANASI: With politicians of all hues throwing in everything they have to woo Kashi as it readies for polls on March 8, chief minister   and Congress vice president   stepped on gas with their campaigning and lead an eight kilometer-long roadshow through Varanasi on Saturday. 

 The six-hour road ran nearly parallel to prime minister Narendra Modi’s programme in the temple town. Where Modi held a ‘Jan Darshan’ in the morning and returned from campaigning in Jaunpur in the evening to address a public rally at Kashi’s townhall, Rahul and Akhilesh led the roadshow through several minority pockets crucial to the Congress and SP, and also stopping for darshan, like Modi, at Kashi Vishwanath temple.
 
 In terms of numbers, this would have easily been the largest show the SP-Congress have done together, yet, with a huge turnout of crowds from start – in Varanasi Cantonment – to finish at the city centre near Godowlia. This was also probably the only show in which Congress’ supporters and flag bearers were matched their SP counterparts.
 
 Varanasi, which locals say is used to the idea of “lakhha mela” (gathering of one lakh people), turned out in large numbers to watch and support the second VIP show of the day.
 
 Film analogies seemed to the order of the day, whether it was in political speech making or in sloganeering. While Rahul Gandhi repeated his hero-to-villain jibe against PM Modi and then alleging Modi’s ‘jumlas’ were impossible to stop, supporters held out placards declaring the Akhilesh-Rahul duo as the Karan-Arjun of the eponymous film, saying the two youth leaders would, together, change the fate of UP and free it from the clutches of Modi and BJP.”
 
 On Saturday, the crowds indulged in a fair share of media bashing too. Many onlookers approached media contingents travelling along with the roadshow, complaining that the Rahul-Akhilesh show was blacked out on TV, and also shouted slogans asking the press to “be honest.”
 
 Akhilesh and Rahul, accompanied on Saturday by Kannauj MP   played to the gallery, engaged with the crowds, waving, throwing flowers back among the crowds, and blowing air kisses to the crowds that looked on. Later, addressing the crowds, Akhilesh also said that this was not a ‘’gathbandhan’ of two families, but a coming together of two youth who wanted to see UP progress.
 
