BHOPAL: A couple of hours before the CM banned liquor shops along the banks of Narmada, the cabinet on Monday ratified a new excise policy for 2017-18, willing to implement a Supreme Court order to remove all liquor shops within 500 metres of national highways. And now, local police stations will have a list of customers of every liquor shop.

 What’s more, the government has decided to send a team of administrative officers to Gujarat and Bihar to study how the ban on consumption and sale of liquor is executed by the governments there. This has triggered intense speculation on whether Madhya Pradesh will become the third state to ban liquor. There are no direct answers yet from the government but it is clear that hooch will not be as readily available as before.
 
 State government spokesman Narottam Mishra said, “The new excise policy will be implemented in three major parts. First, we want to emphasise that no licence for new liquor shops has been given by the state government in the past four years. At present there are 5.1 shops per lakh population.” Mishra, who is also minister for water resources, said that under the Narmada Seva Yatra and river rejuvenation programme, the government has decided to shut down 58 liquor shops that lie within 5km of the banks of the Narmada. “These shops are spread over the districts of Hoshangabad, Dewas, Khandwa, Khargone, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Raisen, Sehore and Harda.”
 
 The state is determined to enforce the SC order to shift all liquor shops beyond 500m of National highways. The cabinet on Monday decided to push back 1,427 hooch stores. There will also be statutory warning signs outside every liquor outlet that will say: “Madira paan sehath ke liye haanikarak hai (drinking liquor is injurious to health).” Liquor bottles will have the same warning on labels and a hologram to identify it as not illicit. The government will track sale of liquor from warehouses to shops via an online system. 
 
 Drunken driving will be met with strict punitive action. “Police will be armed with breathalysers. The first time a drunken driver is caught, his licence will be suspended for six months,” Mishra said. “The second time he is caught, his licence will be suspended for two years. If there’s a third offence, his driving licence will be terminated.” 
 
 The home department will write to the Union government praying for stronger provisions under Section 184 of Motor Vehicles Act 1988. It will also seek a ban on advertisements and commercial of liquor brands and breweries on television channels.
 
 Considering the large tribal population, the government will run de-addiction camps with the help of NGOs and the social service sector. Addiction-free villages will be given rewards, and the health department will give emphasis to treatment of cirrhosis of liver, cancer of the liver and other diseases caused by excessive consumption of liquor, say officials.
 
 
