LUCKNOW:   in front of   on Tuesday was meant to   but it led to   in and around   for over four hours from 12 noon onwards. Even pedestrians were not allowed to proceed on the road. Worst hit were school children who had to spend hours on the road.

 Teachers protesting under the banner of Secondary Teachers Association had called for a demonstration at two points -in front of Vidhan Sabha and on Park Road near Civil hospital. To tackle the protesters, police put barricades on two routes -Vidhan Sabha road and LalbaghHazrartganj road. Vidhan Sabha road is the key stretch of Nishatganj-Charbagh route. Barricading of these two roads led to congestion in Hazratganj and its cascading effect was felt on all the link roads.
 
 Four prominent schools are located in Hazratganj.Since it was afternoon, many parents who came to pick up their kids parked their vehicles near Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) parking lot and walked all the way to school and then came back all the way with their wards. Many took the risk of negotiating their way through the barricading. The haphazardly parked vehicles were the other reason for traffic snarls for several hours in the areas close to Hazratganj.
 
 Around the time schools got over, traffic went for a toss and over 15 routes around Hazratganj, including Vidhan Sabha Marg, Lalbagh Crossing, Dayanidhan Park Road, BN Road, Lalbagh, Kaiserbagh Road and Crossing, Latouche Road, MG Marg, Cantt Road, Secretariat Road, Hussainganj Crossing, Burlington Crossing and all the inter-linked routes to these areas were completely blocked.
 
 Commuters near Lalbagh and Hazratganj Crossing had a tough time gettin go the other side and also had to go through police checking. Police said they were just being careful about the security. Some pedestrians even jumped over the high walls near Janpath.
 
 People stuck in the traffic said it's their daily commute and since they didn't have any alternative routes, they were forced to wait. “I came to receive my child around 1 pm and was stuck in traffic jam for 90 minutes near Royal Hotel. It took me another hour to complete the stretch from Vidhan Sabha crossing to Hazratganj crossing,“ said RK Srivastava who was seen stuck near BJP office.
 
 Divyansh Shantikala, who was seen stuck near Mayfair trisection, said he had an appointment at a coffee bar in Hazratganj but he missed it due to choked traffic near Lalbagh Crossing. Priya Seth, who had gone to pick up her child from a school in Hazratganj, was stopped by police and was asked to show her identity proof. “I will change my daughter's school because the behaviour of police is getting worse by the day ,“ she said.
 
 
 
 
 Around 800 protesting teachers were detained on charges of violating section 144 of CrPc which had been imposed in Lucknow (east). “Though we had been notified that teachers will stage their protest in Hazratganj, we conducted a checking drive on Charbagh railway station and the bus station. We took all teachers to Gosainganj Jail and around 3 pm, they all were released on bail bond,“ said additional city magistrate (ACM-1) Santosh Upadhyay. 
 
