Kolkata: The Nangi station near Budge Budge turned into a veritable war zone on Thursday morning after Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel resorted to a lathi-charge to evict commuters who were squatting on the tracks to protest the late running of trains during peak hours. Commuters ran for cover during the lathi-charge and then retaliated by pelting stones at the men in uniform. Before long, the GRP and RPF personnel were on the run, leaving the station manager’s office and ticket booking counters to the mercy of the irate mob. These were ransacked and property worth several lakhs destroyed in the violence that continued over three hours.

 Nangi is the penultimate station in the Sealdah-Budge Budge section of Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division. With Budge Budge being a mere 3.5 km away, there is no reason for Sealdah-bound trains to be late during the morning peak hours. Commuters, however, said that this has become a regular feature with trains arriving 20-25 minutes behind schedule. This was what sparked off Thursday’s violence.
 
 Scores of commuters were waiting at Nangi for the 34117 Budge Budge-Sealdah local to arrive at 8.08 am. Around 8.32 am, the 34119 Budge Budge-Sealdah local finally chugged in to the station much to the annoyance of passengers. Not only had they got delayed but there was no room in the train as it was also carrying passengers of the 34117 Up. Some commuters rushed towards the motorman and guard’s cabins at either end of the train and wanted to know why the previous train hadn’t arrived.
 
 “The motorman and guard were under tremendous pressure and tried to get away from the train but they were heckled. People were angry as the 34117 Up was delayed,” said R N Mahapatra, CPRO, Eastern Railway.
 
 The commuters then squatted on the tracks in front of the train. As there weren’t too many people on the tracks, the GRP and RPF personnel decided to sort out the issue by use of force and resorted to a lathi-charge. Among those injured were an elderly man and a woman. This sparked off protests and others joined in the stone-pelting. Two police vehicles parked outside the station were damaged and at least four GRP personnel received injuries due to the stone-pelting that lasted for nearly 45 minutes. Some locals also attempted to block the Budge Budge Trunk Road but their efforts were foiled by the police.
 
 “We had waited for the train for the nearly 30 minutes. People were naturally agitated. Everybody has a commitment. People need to reach their offices. Students need to reach their schools and colleges.   in train running has now become a regular feature. When people sought an explanation from the motorman and guard, policemen began a lathi-charge. The elderly man who was hit was actually trying to stop the mob from attacking the motorman,” said Biplab Das, a daily commuter.
 
 According to others, it is the same with Down trains. Trains towards Budge Budge from Naihati and Kalyani are sometimes more than an hour late, they said. “If this continues, we will lose our jobs. Every day we have the same excuse for being late. How long will our bosses tolerate this,” said Sharmila Dey.
 
 Normal train services in the Sealdah-Budge Budge section resumed at 11.53 am. In the interim period, three pairs of local trains were cancelled and four pairs ran truncated services.
 
 
