Greater Noida: Three officials of Noida Power Company Limited ( ) were allegedly held hostage for over four hours by villagers of Luksar village in Echotech 1, Greater Noida, on Thursday.

 NPCL officials had on Thursday morning held a camp for the collection of dues in the village as part of an ongoing drive. 
 
 While the villagers claimed the charges levied on them were arbitrary, the NPCL officials claimed that some villagers were indulging in  . The villagers have threatened to stage a sit-in outside the NPCL office in Greater Noida in the coming days if their grivances were not heard.
 
 Sandeep Kumar, a resident, said he had shut down the meter at his residence before moving out of town on July 29, 2016, and even handed over the meter to NPCL, and yet the family has been billed the fixed charge of Rs 288 and user charge of Rs 1,307 every month since then. 
 
 “We don’t understand how we are being charged when there is no meter in our house,” Kumar said.
 
 Similarly, another resident., Rajpal Singh, had shut down and surrendered his meter 10 years ago when he sold his house and shifted to another place. He is still being billed a pending amount of Rs 4,000.
 
 Agitated over the lack of a response from NPCL, some residents of the village held the three NPCL officials hostage from 10am to 2.30pm. According to the villagers, the village is only getting about six hours of power supply at night. However, Sarnath Ganguly, general manager (Operations), NPCL, told TOI that when Rajesh Mishra, NPCL assistant manager, went to Luksar village with two junior staff members to hold a camp for dues collection many cases of power theft came to light. 
 
 “Four-five residents lost their cool in the heat of the moment and detained the officials. As a result, the dues collection camp’s mission failed,” Ganguly said, adding that it was not true that power was supplied to the village only for six hours. “We are supplying power for 14 hours to the village and neighbouring areas,” Ganguly said.
 
 
