MUMBAI: The   on Friday informed the Bombay high court that the structural repairs on the six-year-old   flyover would be completed by January 2019. A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice   directed the BMC’s standing technical advisory committee (STAC) to look into the structural repairs that need to be carried out and submit a report to the court before the next date of hearing—August 23.

 The court also permitted petitioner and activist Bhagwanji Raiyani to make changes to the petition to look into the role of the contractor who constructed the flyover. “The same contractor is implementing many crucial infrastructure projects in the city,” said advocate Sumedha Rao, counsel for the petitioner. 
 
 The 2.48km flyover between ITC Hotel in Parel and   in Byculla was inaugurated in June 2011. The PIL filed by Raiyani cited the various incidents of potholes and gaps as well as a block falling off since the construction of the bridge. In an affidavit, chief engineer (bridges) S O   informed the court that the BMC would restart the pending resurfacing works after monsoon from October 15 and complete it by February 15, 2018. “During this period, the BMC will also complete preliminary works for carrying out structural repairs,” the affidavit said. This would include proof checking of design calculations to decide the methodology of carrying out repairs, and appointing IIT Bombay to supervise the work and the tender process. 
 
 “The structural repairs are expected to start from March 1, 2018 and be completed in six months (excluding the monsoon period) by January 15, 2019,” the affidavit added. Kori said that the BMC had gone through 7,000 pages of design calculations submitted by MMRDA and identified structural repairs to be carried out. 
 
 According to the BMC, it had only four hours in the night (1am to 5am) to carry out surfacing repairs. “The work of structural repairs cannot be carried out simultaneously with the resurfacing work due to requirements of the traffic police in view of vehicles plying on the flyover,” the affidavit said, justifying the time it would take to carry out necessary repairs. 
 
 
