Gandhinagar: If the figures tabled in the state assembly are an indication, more human beings have been fallen prey to electrocution due to open wires than the animals, at least in the three district of Junagadh, Jamnagar and Devbhoomi Dwarka.

 The government has said that in 2016, around 33 people died and 11 were hospitalized due to electric wires. “The number of human casualties was around 44 including the injured while those of animals was 41. According to data tabled for Junagadh district in 2015 there 9 human deaths and 10 animals from electrocution.”
 
 Officials said that in most cases, the electrocution was caused by farmers electrifying fences to save their fields from animals. He said the majority of animal death also because of farmers electrifying fencing. Officials said the forest department on several occasions asked the government not permit barbed wire near sanctuary areas. But the government in the budget for 2017-18 has doubled the allocation to support farmers in erecting wire fencing. The budget for this for 2017-18 has been increased to Rs 200 crore against the allocation of Rs 100 crore in 2016-17.
 
 Experts in the forest department, who asked not to be identified, said that the forest department has written to the government to not subsidize fencing around sanctuary areas as it causes human and animal deaths. On average, around 100 people are electrocuted every year across the state. The officials said that the government first asked for a alternative. We suggested cactus fencing with a 1m deep pit on all sides of the field which will deter animals from entering. He said that despite several representations, the government has failed to find a solution.
 
 
 
 
 The state government has no plan to lay underground electric cables in Gir forest and Junagadh district. The government stated in the state assembly that it has written to the central government for underground cabling of electricity wires in big cities, but Junagadh was not included in the scheme. The government was replying to a question by   Babu Vaja over accidental deaths of humans and animals.
 
