KOCHI: Keeping abreast with changing times, schools in Kochi have now started migrating away from school diaries to mobile phone applications. 

 Several schools have started communicating examination results via mobile applications. “Last year, school examination results were available for students via mobile applications and we have continued to do this year as well,“ said  , vice-principal of  .
 
 This year, Sacred Hearts School in Thevara also made the marks available on mobile phone application. “We launched our application last year and about 20% of the parents started engaging with the application before the examination concluded,“ said Fr Antony M, principal, Sacred Heart School.
 
 He said that they witnessed a hike in number of users once the examinations concluded. The school had also posted the results online apart from handing out report cards. “We also posted lots of information concerning the next academic year, the class and division the student would be part off and several circulars concerning the next academic year,“ said Fr Antony. He added that parents are finding the app useful as all school circulars are made available and would stay there for easy reference. Hence, they are able to keep themselves updated with the matters at school while on the go. Susanna Sunil said the parents have now become adept in using these applications and often call the school to ask why certain updates have not been made.
 
 School application now provides a range of new features. 'EnTab', Global Public School mobile application allows students keep track of their library lending and browse the catalogue of books available in the library facility.
 
  has launched an application, 'Falcon' that allows parents to track the location of children while they are travelling to school and back home.
 
 “The main reason why we launched this application is to ensure peace of mind for parents. The traffic in the city is variable, so if the bus is delayed due to traffic then the parents can check the application, they can also find out which route is being congested by traffic as the application is linked to   maps,“ said Ranjith M Philip from Choice School.
 
 Some school applications now allow parents to communicate directly with teachers concerned. They also allow parents to view the school's fee structure.
 
 Global Public School, will launch a new application 'ITrack Keltron' this academic year, which allow parents to track the movement of students travelling via school transportation.
 
 “We are adding a feature that allows parents to set notifications as to when the school bus will arrive. If the parent wants a notification, 30 or 10 minutes before school bus arrives then they can set the time accordingly in the application,“ said Susanna Sunil. She said at present the school notifies parents via SMS 10 minutes before the school bus arrives at the designated bus stop.
 
