There was a time when you had to be an actor, a playback singer, a politician or a sportsperson to be termed as a celebrity. The concept of reality shows brought a whole new meaning to the word, and created a barrage of TV celebrities, many of whom later joined the playback bandwagon. The latest entrants in the field, however, are a different breed altogether, who got propelled to the celeb world overnight, often without asking for it. Also, they owe their stardom completely to the internet, rather, social media. And they could be anyone from a student to an IPS officer; the best example being  , the star of the   viral dance video, who has now more than a dozen online fan groups. How does it feel to be a social media celebrity and, how has it affected their lives? We explore.

 
 
 The Jimmiki Kammal dance video, which got a record 14 million views online till date, features a large group of women from a college in Kochi, but the one who got lucky was Sheril, one of the two lead dancers. Fans made exclusive videos dedicated to her, and fan groups named ‘Sheril Army’ mushroomed on Facebook. Thousands of Twitter followers and TV interviews followed.
 
 Is it all overwhelming? “Right now I’m just enjoying the moment. As they say, everyone has a day, right?” says a somewhat nonchalant Sheril, who seems amused by all the frenzy. “People have started recognising me, I’ve been getting tonnes of calls and messages. At one point, my phone got hung, even. But life goes on as usual otherwise. I’m still an ordinary person.” 
 
 Sheril also got a few film offers but says she is not planning to take up any. “I like teaching as a profession and wish to stick to it. But I was really excited when Prasanna master called me to congratulate me for the video. Shaan Rahman and Vineeth Sreenivasan also commented on the video.” So, what next? “We are planning more such innovative dance videos.”
 
 
 
 Deepa Nisanth, Assistant Professor at Kerala Varma College, Thrissur and writer, rose to fame after a comment she made on Facebook about the controversial beef fest at the college went viral. And for her, her social media stardom has paved the way for sweet revenge. “Much before I made the controversial post on the beef fest, I had authored books. After I gave the second one to the press, I found that 15 pages were missing. When I insisted that the book be reprinted, the publisher told me, ‘We have no interest in your book.
 
 No one reads new writers. If you want, you can just circulate the book among your friends’.” Deepa refused to accept the book, neither did she demand her money back. Today, she has nearly 3 lakh followers on Facebook, her writings are widely discussed and her books are much in demand. Above all, she has found her space, she says. “There was a time when I used to feel suffocated with all the thoughts I wanted to express, as a woman, as a person. Now I have a space to express them.”
 
 Deepa was approached by political parties since, but she makes it clear that she has no political aspirations. “I have clear political views but my writings are not a precursor to a political entry. I’m satisfied as a teacher and don’t have a membership even, in a political party. I feel people are more open to your views when you speak as a citizen, not as a politician.”
 
 However, Deepa points out that she was not exactly a ‘nobody’ when she started out. “I already had 70k followers which is why my comment got noticed so much. But definitely, the social media stardom has helped me reach out to a lot more people.”
 
 
 
 Google  , IPS, and even now, words like ‘most beautiful police officer’ and ‘gorgeous’ pops up. Which is the last thing Merin, now Deputy Commissioner of Police, wanted to be tagged under. Right from the day her photo in uniform went viral on the internet a few years ago, with words such as ‘Arrest me, officer’, the officer had publicly denounced the sexism involved in it. She still campaigns for appreciating women police officers for the effort they have put in to reach that position, and has the reputation of being a tough cop, unlike what her ‘fans’ think. For the same reason, everything that she did came under scrutiny, from posing for a picture with actor Nivin Pauly, to being clicked with a subordinate policeman holding an umbrella over her.
 There was something Sheril Kadavan was also not prepared for, and that was fake profiles being made in her name, using photos from her Facebook page. “By the time we realised this and hid the photos, some had already been taken. We are trying to create an official page now. But I take it all in the right spirit, people are being so loving and appreciative, especially those from Tamil Nadu.”
 
 Deepa’s life has not been all smooth either, post her stardom. Right-wing activists threatened to throw acid bulbs at her, for supporting an exhibition of paintings of M F Husain at the college campus, earlier this year. “I got calls saying my children won’t return from school, quoting the number of the auto they were travelling in.” Has that made her more cautious about her writings? “The threats don’t scare me. In fact, I have become bolder than I was two years ago, and have acquired the courage to deal with issues.”
 
 And the latest ‘victim’ of social media stardom is the ‘monjathi’ from Brennen College, Thalasserry – Sana. The student who took part in a game show aired on TV, caught the fancy of thousands of single Malayali men who turned her die-hard fans and soon, her photo was all over the internet. However, apparently, her rather conservative family is not too happy with her stardom and is making attempts to stop her photos from being circulated on the net. We also got to know that her phone number has been deactivated, and the family is waiting for the popularity to blow over.
 
 Well, apparently, stardom is not meant for all.
 
 
