RANCHI:   took out a   on Wednesday to demand increase in the   to join the  . Protests started after government issued an   for around 3,000 posts of sub-inspectors in the police department three days ago. 

 Another group of students under the banner of Aarakshan Adhikar Morcha (AAM) shaved their heads to symbolically mourn the government's 'mental death'. The candidates claimed that most of the recruitments carried out by the state agencies like Jharkhand public service commission and the state staff selection commission have remained controversial and mired in corruption. The students outfit now want the government to increase the maximum age limit for sub-inspectors' appointment to 35 years for general category and 40 years for those belonging to the SC/ST categories.
 
 More than two trucks of policemen including women constables guarded the agitators from Morhabadi to Albert Ekka chowk. Despite the presence of the police everywhere, they could not avoid chocking of the traffic at many places because of the long queue of protestors.
 
 One of the protesting students said earlier the age limit for general category candidates was fixed at 35 years while for OBCs it was 38 years and for those of SC/ST category it was 40 years. "This time the age limit for general category has been fixed at 26 whereas for OBCs and SC/ST it has been fixed at 28 and 30 years respectively," the candidate said, under the condition of anonymity. Manoj Kumar, one of the student leaders said the government should change the cutoff date for calculation of age to 2010 instead of 2017. 
 
 On the other hand, the government has rubbished the demands and has clarified its stand. Nidhi Khare, principal secretary, department of personnel and administrative reforms said, the sub-inspectors job demands high-level of physical and medical fitness and compromising with age can be detrimental to the quality of service. "We have increased the maximum age for general category candidates from 24 to 26 but taking it to 35 years is illogical," she said.
 
 
