Mumbai: A consumer   ruled against an   company who repudiated a car   claim on the grounds that the vehicle was left unlocked when the driver visited the washroom for a few minutes. The forum has ordered the insurance company to pay Rs 5.22 lakh along with a compensation of Rs 40,000 to the owner of a Skoda   after it was stolen from a heavily secured and guarded Marine Lines building in 2012. 

 The complaint was submitted before the Central Mumbai District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in 2015 by the owner of the car Ms Banswara Syntex Limited against TATA AIG General Insurance Co Ltd. The complaint said that on May 7, 2012, the car was parked at the parking place of the company’s director. The driver of the car slept in the vehicle for the night. The following morning the driver went to washroom. On his return a few minutes later he found that the car was not in the parking spot. A complaint was lodged with the police and on May 9, 2012 the RTO was informed. The insurance company was intimated and the claim submitted. However, the insurance company repudiated the claim through a letter dated March 25, 2013 on the grounds that proper care was not taken and the vehicle was left unattended without locking it. It said that this was a breach of the policy conditions.
 
 The complainant’s said that the claim was repudiated on the basis of the insurance company’s investigator report. The advocate pointed out that the report said, “It was found that the location is well secured and guarded by a fleet of security persons”. He further submitted that the investigator report was binding on the insurance company.”
 
 The consumer forum said that it is a well settled law that the insurance company cannot avoid the report submitted by investigator without proper reason. While pointing to the investigator’s report, the forum said, “Merely because the vehicle was not locked, it cannot be said that it was left unattended. In the instant complaint before us, the vehicle was parked at the parking place under security. The opponent has wrongly repudiated the claim.”
 
