PATNA: Nepal police have sought the   in the extradition of   Shamshul Huda, who is a   operating from Dubai and the alleged mastermind of the two train derailments near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. His gang of criminals in East Champaran were also allegedly involved in planting a cooker bomb on the railway tracks near Ghorasahan in the district in Bihar on October 1 last year. However, the bomb was defused.

 “We have already written to the Interpol to seek Huda’s extradition and expect some positive results within a week,” inspector Arun Kumar Kushwaha, posted at Bara SP office in Nepal and handling the case related to Huda’s   links with criminals in Nepal, told TOI on phone on Wednesday.
 
 Over 150 passengers were killed in the Indore-Patna Express accident near Kanpur on November 21 while more than 40 persons were injured when Ajmer-Sealdah Express derailed on December 28 last year. 
 
 Kushwaha said Brijkishore Giri alias Baba Giri, along with Mujahir Ansari and Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujit, was arrested by Nepal police in connection with the twin murder of Deepak Ram and Arun Ram of Adapur in East Champaran. “Giri is undergoing treatment in a Kathmandu hospital and is likely to give more details in a day or two about Huda and his involvement in the train derailments in India,” Kushwaha added.
 
 Deepak (18) and his uncle Arun (28) were killed in Bara district of Nepal for their failure to trigger the bomb on Ghorasahan railway tracks. On Giri’s information, Umashankar Patel, Motilal Paswan and Mukesh Yadav were arrested by Adapur police. Motilal revealed his links with Giri, who had confessed to Nepal police about his connections with Pakistan’s ISI man Huda. 
 
 Meanwhile, a senior Bihar police officer said the two call recordings between Patel and Giri about the Kanpur train derailments have been already handed over to the central intelligence agencies investigating the cases. He also said Giri’s cellphone tower location showed his presence near Ghorasahan on October 1 last year. He also said the cellphone surveillance of Motilal, Giri and two other suspects, who are absconding, shows similar pattern as they had switched off their phones two days before and after the Kanpur accidents.
 
 “Motilal still sticks to his statement to East Champaran police about his involvement in both the train accidents. He also revealed that he was handed over a cooker-like object at Gorakhpur and the same person later reached Kanpur with a red-coloured cylinder shaped object, but he did not have any information about any explosion,” said the Bihar police officer.
 
 East Champaran SP Jitender Rana said India has no extradition treaty with Nepal and the NIA would look into the issue to extract more information from Giri and others in Nepal. “The involvement of foreign hands is clear in Ghorasahan incident. We have handed over all the evidences to the NIA and other central intelligence agencies,” Rana said. He, however, did not comment on Kanpur accidents.
 
 
