Gurgaon: The sentencing in the 2012 Maruti labour unrest case, which was originally scheduled for Friday, has been deferred to Saturday. During final arguments in the district court, the prosecution demanded death penalty for 13   convicted of murder and seven years imprisonment for 18 others found guilty of rioting and other crimes.

 On March 10, the court had convicted 31 workers for violence at the car-maker’s   in 2012, in which a general manager died and over 100 people were injured. It also acquitted 117 workers who had stood trial for lack of evidence.
 
 In his arguments before additional sessions judge Rajendra Pal Goel, public prosecutor Anurag Hooda said the fire in which   had died was a planned one by union members. 
 
 “This case falls under the category of rarest of rare as Dev was incapacitated by multiple assaults on his legs and then burnt alive. It’s a case of murder and hence we demand death penalty for the 13 convicted under Section 302 (murder) of IPC,” Hooda said.
 
 Defence lawyers questioned the basis on which the 13 workers were convicted of murder. They argued that the “structure and foundation” of the case had collapsed and that the acquittal of 117 workers provided enough ground for re-examination of evidence.
 
 Rebecca John and Vrinda Grover, the lawyers representing the workers, said it was unfortunate the prosecution had sought the death penalty in what has largely been a case of “targeted framing” of union leaders because they were known and could easily be identified by the witnesses.
 
 “There is no clarity if the fire was manmade or not, leave alone identifying who had started the fire,” said the defence lawyers. “The conviction relied heavily on witnesses in the case, which included mostly members of the Maruti Suzuki management, and other evidence such as medical reports do not corroborate the story put forth by the prosecution. It could not be proved that any of these 13 men intended to kill Dev or they intentionally confined him inside the factory and set fire to the room.”
 
 John added, “The case of death penalty is made out only if the state is able to show that there are aggravating circumstances of the crime, and no mitigating circumstances as far as a criminal is concerned. Only then the rarest of rare rule can be applied. In a case where 117 people were acquitted, what survives of the prosecution and what is the nature of the evidence?”
 
 The defence lawyers also argued in court that the sentencing be quashed for the 18 workers convicted of rioting and other crimes like trespass
 
 “If you recall, 148 men were put on trial. Of them, 117 were acquitted. It was our argument that those men also suffered custody. So in the balance of things, these 18 men should be released on the “period already undergone”. And as far as the 13 are concerned, they should be granted life sentence, which we will challenge in the Punjab and Haryana high court,” said John, speaking outside the courtroom.
 
 
