PUNE: The BJP will dominate the civic body’s standing committee with nine representatives in the 16-member panel, thanks to its thumping victory in the   polls.

 The names of the members are expected to be finalized on March 21 — the day the newly elected body would have its first general body meeting. The parties would suggest names of members to the mayor in the meeting. The committee members would select its chairman.
 
 The   dominated the standing committee in the last two terms. But after its dismal performance in the 2017 elections (41 seats), the NCP’s representation in the committee would be four. The Congress and Sena, which won only 10 seats each, would have one member each in the committee.
 
 A source in the BJP said many party corporators, including veterans and newcomers, are eyeing membership of the civic body’s most crucial committee. The party’s insiders claimed that their leaders were yet to decide on who would head the standing committee and who all would be its members.
 
 “We are expecting a veteran to lead the standing committee because it is a responsible position. He/she will be responsible for crucial decisions pertaining to allotment of funds. The party leaders will have to ensure that the post goes to an able corporator,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 The source said the BJP would ensure representation of every Assembly constituency in the standing committee. A party worker said the mayor, Mukta Tilak, was from the   constituency and the leader of the House, Shrinath Bhimale, hailed from Parvati constituency. Both the constituencies have been strongholds of BJP.
 
 The party is likely to send corporators from other regions, where the BJP performed well in the civic polls, to the standing committee. Even the city’s MLAs will expect party leaders to give maximum representation to their areas in the civic body.
 
 “Most likely, the standing committee chairman will be from Kothrud or Shivajinagar constituencies, where the BJP won in almost all seats,” the source added.
 
 The leader of the House, Bhimale, said the party would unanimously select the members through a transparent process.
 
 Besides the standing committee, BJP would lead other committees, including city development, law, sports, women and child development panels. It is likely to give representation to the city’s maximum areas to avoid discontent.
 
 The BJP would also have to select three co-opted members, while the NCP would have to nominate one.
 
