VADODARA: Allocation of space in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) gardens for outlets to sell   has kicked up a storm again. With the VMC taking no action to cancel the lease of these parlous as decided earlier, the opposition has threatened to hold an agitation over the issue.

 It was in January that the standing committee had decided to cancel the lease of the outlets referred to as   In all, 21 such outlets were given space by the VMC at its various gardens at an annual lease of Rs 85,800 with an escalation of 10 per cent per annum. A series of other conditions were put for the parlours and Rs one lakh deposit was taken for each of these.
 
 The   decided to review the lease when a proposal of extending the lease of two such parlours of the   at Vadiwadi and railway station areas came up. It was also decided to terminate the current lease in wake of a series of issues.
 
 Sources in the civic body said that one of the major concerns was that the lease amount was very low even for parlous located at prime locations. 
 
 While the lease was given in the name of providing facilities to users of gardens at several locations, the parlours were actually facing the main roads with the gardens in their rear side.
 
 Sources said that the other irregularities included the fact that no formal lease agreement was signed with the parlours and that they did not take any building permission. The parlours were to be temporary structures, but ended up being permanent constructions.
 
 VMC opposition leader Chandrakant Shrivastava said that there were several procedural lapses too. “The lease should have been given after a nod by the standing committee and general board and this was not done,” he said. Shrivastava added that understanding the violations, the standing committee had on January 5 decided to terminate the leases. But there has been no action so far, he said.
 
 VMC commissioner Dr Vinod Rao said that the civic body was in the process of taking action against the parlours. The issue was also raised in the general board meeting of the civic body on Monday
 
 
