Ludhiana: With an aim to promote of LED lights/fans to save electricity, the Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All ( ) scheme of the Union government was launched in the district on Thursday at the head office of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Under this scheme, subsidized LED bulbs, lights and fans will be available at PSPCL substations and consumers can purchase the same using their ID card.

 Chief engineer (Ludhiana Central) Narinderpal Singh said the counters would be established by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (ESSL), which is executing the project across the country under the administration of the ministry of power. 
 
 He added that subsidies would be provided to around 50 consumers on all products that will reduce electricity bills. The EESL officials said by using the LED products consumer could save Rs 9-10,000 from their annual electricity bill. “The consumers will be able to buy a 9-watt bulb for Rs 90, 20-watt tubelight for Rs 220 and a 50-watt fan will be available for Rs 1,200.” 
 
 He added that any consumer could visit the PSPCL substations, including those in Aggar Nagar, Model town, Focal Point and Sunder Nagar and buy LED lights/fans/bulbs by just showing their IDs. The chief engineer added that the consumer would be allowed to purchase 10 bulbs, 10 lights and 5 fans on one ID. 
 
 The EESL officials said after Amritsar, Mohali, Ferozepur and Fazilka, Ludhiana is the fifth district in the state where the Ujala scheme had been launched. “Already around 1.25 lakh products have been sold under the project that was launched in the state in May. Around 25 crore products have been sold in the country since the scheme was launched by the Union government,” they added.
 
 Outstanding dues
 
 Replying to a query regarding a large amount of outstanding dues of government departments towards PSPCL, Narinderpal Singh said around Rs 67 crore was outstanding from different government departments towards the PSPCL in the district. He added that in February-March this year they had started a campaign to recover the amount and now again they would be working to recover the dues. Action will also be taken against the erring departments, he said, adding that around Rs 27 crore was outstanding only of the waterworks department. 
 
 
