MARGAO: After having made numerous complaints to the directorate of panchayats (DoP) regarding the failure of the Macazana village panchayat sarpanch to conduct mandatory gram sabhas, a   has now petitioned chief minister   and panchayats minister   seeking their intervention in the matter. 

 Stating that “many important issues were not addressed for almost a year”, Macazana panch member Francis D’Costa has drawn the attention of Parrikar and Godinho to his three previous complaints to then director of panchayats Gurudas Pilarnekar regarding Macazana sarpanch Cristina Vaz’s failure to conduct gram sabhas and “deliberately cancelling them by misguiding the panchayat secretary”.
 
 Demanding the immediate suspension of the panchayat secretary, D’Costa told TOI that “on December 11, 2016, Cristina abandoned the gram sabha midway as she was unable to answer the queries of the villagers. On December 13, 2016, around 25 Macazana villagers complained to the Pilarnekar about Cristina abandoning the meet. During the gram sabha held on April 9, this year, panch member Anthony Vaz objected when Cristina attempted to confirm the minutes of two meetings that were not held”. 
 
 “A criminal complaint was also recently registered at the Maina-Curtorim police station against Cristina, deputy sarpanch Caitano Vaz and two ruling panch members,   and  , who along with the panchayat secretary, forged the panchayat register by manipulating the records of the meetings, by obtaining signatures of their close family members,” D’Costa added. 
 
 Refuting all the allegations, Vaz said, “Except for the gram sabha that was adjourned as the situation was turning violent, all other gram sabhas have been conducted. There has been no manipulation of the records and all those present for the meeting sought postponement of the gram sabha”. 
 
 Director of panchayats Sandhya Kamat said she has recently taken charge and promised to look into the matter. Godinho said, “I'm seized of the matter and I have already ordered an inquiry. But, all the officers are busy with preparations for the panchayat polls, scheduled on June 11. However, I assure you that after the inquiry is conducted, nobody will go scott-free, if the inquiry indicts them”.
 
