PATNA: The state government is gearing up for the massive drive against child marriage and dowry which chief minister   will launch at Bapu auditorium in Gyan Bhawan here on October 2.

 “Six street plays and nine folk songs – five on child marriage and four on dowry – have been planned for the drive which will cover each panchayat of the state,” director, mass education, Vinodanand Jha said, adding Women Development Corporation is working round-the-clock in collaboration with directorate of mass education to make the drive a success.
 
 Jha said all the songs have been composed in Bhojpuri, Magahi and Maithili languages to connect with the locals. “The songs and street plays are associated with the day-to-day life of rural people. We will hand over the CDs to local shops and buses where they can be played on regular basis,” Jha said.
 
 At least 154 street play directors from across the state are being trained at Agrasen Bhawan. They will impart training to their team members, who will perform street plays in villages. “The artists have been handpicked and they are experts in acting,” mass education department assistant director Ramesh Chandra said. Each team has around 12 members with equal representation of men and women.
 
 The drive, part of centenary celebration of Champaran satyagrah, is being launched on Gandhi Jayanti to do away with social evils. It will continue for at least a year. 
 
 Puja pandals to focus on women empowerment: Social issues, such as dowry and child marriage, are emerging as central themes for many popular Puja pandals this year. The district administration has also urged the Puja committees to highlight the twin issues and help the government in fighting these social evils.
 
 Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the stress is on women empowerment this Puja. “We will run a campaign against child marriage and dowry. The puja committees should also create awareness among people by distributing pamphlets and putting up posters, cut outs and cartoons in pandals,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the DM will hold a meeting on Wednesday to review security arrangements. The administration has made installation of CCTV cameras mandatory at all pandals.
 
 
