Bengaluru: Astronomy enthusiasts can look forward to an enhanced skywatching experience. Jawaharlal  , a haven for schoolchildren, is set to reopen on January 17 after having undergone a 10-month renovation. 

 Exceedingly popular, the planetarium sees 2-2.5 lakh visitors every year, mostly children. The sky theatre has seen a major makeover, with the 25-year-old opto-mechanical projector being replaced with a hybrid projector system. “Since the opto-mechanical projector was not computer controlled, we decided to switch to a system that was a combination of both the traditional opto-mechanical projection and digital technology,” said B S Shylaja, director of the planetarium.
 
 This hybrid projector allows for a greater range of animations, simulations and immersive visualizations and in the director’s words, together, the two create wonderful programmes. The new technology was procured from a German company and it took 2-3 months to prepare the hall for the change. The acoustics were redone and the dome repainted.
 
 Owing to its immense popularity, visitors, especially children continued to throng the gates even when the planetarium was being renovated. “Many of the visitors had come from other states, so they didn’t know the planetarium was closed. Since we didn’t want them to go back without having seen anything, we established another small dome,” said Shylaja.
 
 The planetarium was redone at a cost of Rs 12 crore, sanctioned by the government. Chief minister Siddaramaiah will inaugurate the refurbished planetarium on January 17.
 
 Boxes: NEW ATTRACTIONS
 
 New exhibits have been added to the science park. One that promises to be crowd-puller is the anti-gravity cottage. Here, water defies gravity and flows in an upward direction.
 
 Another is the Globe, aligned parallel to the earth’s axis, which allows instructors to explain the way seasons change as well as the concept of a zero-shadow day in an easy, lucid manner. A few of the exhibition panels in the two exhibition halls will be changed to complement the overall theme.
 
 Flagship programme for undergrads
 
 Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium is not only about exposing the layman to the wonders of astronomy. It is also a hub promoting pure science education. Reap (Research Education Advancement Programme), the planetarium’s three-year weekend course in physics, aims to help undergraduates, who are taught through non-formal methods, get into research institutions across the country. It the brainchild of institutions like IISc, Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Raman Research Institute and International Centre for Theoretical Sciences (ICTS) and eminent personalities in the field of pure science like CV Vishveshwara, UR Rao, Bala R Iyer, S Lokanathan and Arun Mangalam. The programme has produced at least 100 researchers of global standards. 
 
 Every year, the planetarium also holds 6-7 activity workshops for educators to make teaching more fun-filled and interactive. 
 
 
