JAIPUR: The number of   are far greater than  . The crimes in such cases need to be dealt with in the light of the circumstances in which they were committed, said Justice   of  . He emphasized the need for bringing such   with the joint effort of community and state government. 

 Lokur was speaking on the concluding day of the third Northern Region Roundtable Consultation on Effective Implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015 - Focus on Rehabilitation Services and Linkages with POCSO Act 2012, in Jaipur on Sunday.
 
 The SC judge, who is also the chairman of the juvenile justice committee of the Supreme Court, said very often juvenile victims under pressure from society and family do not disclose the crime to anyone. He said that awareness at all levels, especially among the law enforcing agency, is critical for the effective implementation of JJ Act. 
 
 He emphasized the need for understanding the standard global practices to rehabilitate such children. He said the Jodhpur Law University had introduced a course on juvenile justice and this is a positive step towards creating more awareness on this aspect. He said that children in juvenile homes need love, affection and proper direction to become responsible citizens.
 
 Justice K S Jhaveri, executive chairman of the Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority, emphasized the need for creating a conducive and secure environment in rehabilitation centres for the juveniles.
 
 Shruti Kakkad, chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, pointed out that in many states the juvenile homes are not available at district level. He emphasized the need for a national campaign to improve the condition of juvenile homes.
 
 On the occasion, an MoU was also signed by commissioner and secretary child welfare L N Meena and Monica Kalia, president Union Bank of India. 
 
 As per the agreement, the Union Bank of India will provide Rs 17 lakh towards improving facilities at government's child care homes in Jaipur and Ajmer under its corporate social responsibility.
 
 
