KOLKATA: Bengal heaved a sigh of relief after   told the   on Tuesday that it had no plans to remove Rabindranath   from  . After Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien raised the issue during Zero Hour, Javedekar said, “We hail everybody and nothing will be removed.”

 Raising the issue, O’Brien said the HRD ministry had called for suggestions and one of the suggestions from RSS- affiliated Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas was to remove Tagore’s works and references from the syllabus. “Rabindranath Tagore does not need a certificate from anybody,” he said and asked the minister to disassociate from the Nyas.
 
 After the minister’s statement, O’Brien walked up to Javadekar to present him three books on Tagore.
 
 In Kolkata, Union HRD secretary Anil Swarup also reiterated that “there is no such proposal”. 
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters, “I think very soon they will remove everyone from the country. How can one even talk of removing Tagore from school textbooks? This is just rubbish. He is the pride of the world, everybody respects him. I think nobody is supporting it.”
 
 The controversy erupted after RSS ideologue Dinanath Batra recommended a host of changes to the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) in its textbooks, including removal of Tagore. It was feared that it might even lead to dropping Tagore’s ‘Chhitto Jetha Bhoysunnyo’ and ‘Juta Abiskar’.
 
 Poet Subodh Sarkar described Javadekar’s statement as an act of ‘damage control’. “They did it with Amartya Sen and then tried the same with Tagore. If one checks the chronology of events, they are attacking one icon after another. Javedekar might be trying to do damage control but that’s not enough. The motive of the party has been exposed in front of the whole world,” Sarkar said.
 
 Linguist Pabitra Sarkar said: “Sometimes, such things are done to gauge people’s reactions. It’s a way to test how much people will accept. They are hoping that a time will come when people will accept this.”
 
 Visva-Bharati’s officiating vice chancellor Swapan Kumar Datta said: “I didn’t believe it and didn’t expect the government to take it seriously.” He also suggested that there should be talks either in Kolkata or Santiniketan to understand Tagore’s perception of nationalism and humanism. “Tagore was never involved in politics but was the first person to give up his Knighthood after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. People who claim to be nationalists neither understand his concept of nationalism nor humanism,” he added.
 
 State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said: “There was nothing of this sort. This is an attempt by people to defame the sangh.” A state BJP release said: “The organisation in question, Siksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, is an independent body and their office bearers have clarified that this is a completely false and fabricated propaganda aimed at maligning Sangh’s image and creating a social rift using the instrument of provincialism.” 
 
 
