MANALI:   of   have been receiving   since Tuesday morning,   across the state. The unexpected widespread snowfall in March has come as a surprise for the people of the state, who had started packing their woollens after the February 21 snowfall, which was expected to be season’s last.

 Manali received 6cm of snow overnight while Solang slopes and Kothi received 45cm and 60cm layer, respectively. Keylong and Kalpa received 14cm each, while Udaipur recorded 17cm snow. Rain lashed the lower parts of Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Snowfall has blocked the Kullu-Anni–Shimla highway at Jalori Pass. Haripur Dhar in Sirmaur, the entire Pir Panjal range, most parts of Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and upper reaches of Chamba and Kullu are experiencing good snowfall.
 
 The day temperature in the state has decreased by 3-4 degrees Celsius. At minus 5.6 degrees Celsius, Keylong was the coldest in the state followed by Kalpa (-1.2 degrees Celsius) and Manali (-0.6 degrees Celsius). Manali also received 42mm rain and high altitude areas of Shimla, including Kufri and Jubbal, were also lashed with rain. For many years, March had not witnessed snow while less snow was being recorded from December to February.
 
 Meanwhile, snowfall has brought cheers among tourists and hoteliers, but fruit growers are a worried lot. “Apple orchards will take some time to bloom and are safe. Over 50% of plum orchards are under bloom and extreme cold can destroy the harvest,” Dharam Chand, a fruit grower from the region, said.
 
 A large number of tourists had thronged Solang on Tuesday and sudden snowfall had put them into trouble. Manali police had to force them to leave the valley. Taking precautionary measures, police did not allow tourists to go to Solang on Wednesday. A huge tourist crowd enjoyed amidst snowfall at Nehru Kund.
 
 Another spell of heavy snowfall in Lahaul valley has crippled life. The Border Roads Organization (BRO) had cleared the Keylong-Darcha and Keylong-Udaipur highway but heavy snowfall has partially crippled the traffic. It has also hit the BRO’s plan to start snow clearance on the Manali-Leh highway as inclement weather has delayed the operation. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said the weather had turned unfavourable and chances of avalanches had increased. “All departments have been asked to keep an eye on situations across the district. People have been asked to take extra precautions and stay indoors during snowfall,” he said.
 
 According to director of Shimla meteorological centre Manmohan Singh, most parts of the state will experience snowfall, rain and hailstorm in the next four days. “A warning has been issued regarding heavy snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal for Thursday. Mid and low hills will experience thunderstorms and hailstorms in the next two days,” he added.
 
 
