THOUBAL: Once a trusted lieutenant of chief minister  , N   is now BJP's key player whose task is to bloom 'thambal' (lotus in Manipuri) in Thoubal - the assembly constituency Ibobi has been representing since 2007. 

 For Biren, who left Congress and joined BJP in October last year following differences with Ibobi, it has become a war of ego to bring constituencies under Thoubal, also the name of the district, under its fold. 
 
 While Congress has intensified its campaign in Heingang, the seat Biren has been representing for three terms, the BJP leader described his electioneering in Thoubal constituency a 'counter-attack' as he set out for the chief minister's stronghold in a white SUV on Monday. Biren was greeted by BJP workers, both Hindus and Muslims, as he walked up to the stage wearing a black coat. All of them chanted 'this is the time for thambal in Thoubal.'
 
 "The chief minister and his deputy have already campaigned in my constituency thrice because Congress is worried over BJP's emergence as a strong political alternative. In the assembly seats across Thoubal district, there is a surge of BJP supporters. I am sure this election will not be a cakewalk for Ibobi," said Biren. 
 
 Thoubal, where BJP candidate L Basanta Singh will take on Ibobi, has about 29,000 voters. Human rights activist   is also contesting from Thoubal. L Suresh Singh is fighting for   which had won seven seats in the 2012 assembly polls. As the battle for votes between Congress and BJP gains pitch in Thoubal, the place coincidentally reminds one of the last Anglo-Manipur war fought in April, 1891, at Khongjom, about 10 km from Thoubal district headquarters. 
 
 Biren took care to explain to the voters about the chief minister's relentless attack on BJP on the framework agreement and economic blockade. "Fifteen years of Congress rule has divided Manipur on ethnic lines. BJP has to undo this division by taking along all communities for the development of the state," said Biren. 
 
 BJP leaders said it will be a tough fight for the party in Thoubal given the fact that it is one of the developed districts of the state with better road connectivity. "But the mood of the people is fast changing. Earlier, it was not the party but the leader which mattered more for garnering votes. But this perception is changing. Now people are looking up to the party. And BJP is emerging as an alternative," Biren said.
 
 However, a Congress leader said people of Thoubal know very well that the chief minister has ushered in development and they are not going to sacrifice it just for BJP.
 
 As the sun started setting in Thoubal, Biren's cavalcade rushed to Kairang, a Muslim locality in Heingang where his supporters have arranged an election meeting. After having tea at Md Khaleque's residence, Biren went to the venue nearby for the meeting. Muslim workers of the pasrt said they wanted change for betterment of the state and democracy.
 
 "We the Muslims in Kairang are with BJP and Biren Singh," said 63-year old Md Shiraz Ahmed. 
 
