VADODARA: Violent clashes broke out between mobs of two communities in the sensitive Panigate area of the old city during   late on Sunday night, leaving two persons injured in police firing.

 On Monday, 13 persons from both communities were arrested for rioting. The police had to open fire at the rioters who went on a rampage. 
 
 The incident occurred when a Tazia procession was passing from the Panigate police station road. “Some of the members in the procession were showing aggression and wielding sticks. Soon it sparked tension among the locals and those participating in the procession, leading to stone pelting,” said a senior police official. 
 
 “It seemed to be pre-planned. Some residents of Ektanagar, who participated in the procession, have an old enmity with Bavchavad residents. They tried to create disturbance near Bavchavad but we had tight police security there. So when the procession reached Panigate police station, some participants showed aggression and it snowballed into rioting,” the police official added. 
 
 The cops soon hurried the Tazia procession out from the area and then tried to disperse the mob. “When a constable was trying to disperse the mob, some people manhandled him. The Panigate police inspector too was attacked so he took out his revolver to warn the mob by firing in air. But some tried to snatch the firearm from his hand forcing him to fire. Two persons suffered injuries in the firing,” said Manoj Sashidhar, city police commissioner. 
 
 Naresh alias Lalo Kahar was got a bullet injury in abdomen while another bullet grazed Akash Kahar’s neck. The duo was admitted to a private hospital along with Sudha Kahar who suffered head injury during the stone pelting. One cabin was damaged and a motorbike was set on fire by the rioting mob. 
 
 Another FIR of rioting was also registered in Wadi police station by Nitin Maachi who was attacked by members of a Tazia procession near Baranpura on Sunday night.
 
 “We had checked the Tazia procession to ascertain if any weapons were being carried. We are now trying to identify another rioters. Also, security has been upped in the sensitive areas,” Sashidhar added.
 
 Minor tension in other areas
 
 While the major incident of stone pelting and setting public property ablaze took place at Panigate, few other minor incidents of communal tensions during the same time in other localities of walled city area went unreported. A minor incident of stone pelting took place near Koyli Falia in Fatehpura, skirmishes were reported near Baroda Central Library and the communally sensitive Juni Gadhi area. Fortunately, deployment of security forces in large amount made sure that these did not snowball into large incidents.
 
 
 
 
 The police had inputs of trouble being planned in the old city during Taziya processions but the location was different. “We had inputs that some trouble may occur near Mehta Pol so we deployed tight security there. However, riots occurred near Panigate police station,” said a senior police official. Though only Panigate and Wadi saw stone pelting, rumours of trouble in other areas kept the police on toes till late on Sunday night.
 
 
