KANNUR: The   at Mundayad here, which was built for the national Games two years back, is likely to get a new lease of life, as the Assembly committee, which visited the stadium on Thursday, has suggested it should be developed into an international coaching centre and also the facilities should be improved. The committee also made some suggestions about improving the   here.

 If the facilities are improved, it would benefit the stadium at many levels and it would also improve the sports scenario in the district, which is dismal despite having a Sports Division.
 
 “The visit of the committee chaired by T V Rajesh, MLA to the stadium and also the Sports Division here has rekindled the hope of reviving both,” said O K Vineesh, president of the  , which controls the stadium.
 
 The council has already got the administrative sanction for the swimming pool and a hockey stadium while the detailed project report for the football court is almost complete, he said.
 
 The committee was highly positive about the improvement of the facility and it also said there should be hostel and other infrastructure, as the stadium has sufficient land.
 
 Once this improves, it would also benefit the Sports Division here, provided it is brought under the Sports Department, according to the Sports Council. The committee was of the opinion that it should be developed in the same pattern of the   but for that it has to improve the infrastructure and also the training facilities, as the Sports Division does not have proper training facilities or coaches.
 
 The Sports Division is in a pathetic condition, and even their hostel is in a bad shape, as 14 girls stay in a room that has the capacity to accommodate only four. Moreover those rooms do not have toilet facility and the nearly 190 girls there have to use the toilets outside the building, which are also in a bad shape.
 
 “According to the committee, in order to solve this, first the Sports Division, which is now under the  , should be brought under the Department of Sports so that they can use the facilities like the indoor stadium for coaching and also more fund could be provided for their accommodation and training,” said Vineesh.
 
 He said this was also brought to the attention of the Assembly committee. However, according to sources, though the government favours this transition, some senior officials in the Education Department are against it thus creating stumbling block.
 
