CHENNAI:   - who will make their debut at the   Season 5 - have made all the right noises in the last few weeks. Be it undertaking a tour of the Tamil Nadu districts or creating a unique expression to celebrate a point - Thalaivas have done it all. The team's jersey launch here on Thursday saw their brand icon  , co-owners  , Allu Arvind, Allu Arjun, Ram Charan Teja and   in attendance.

 The whole atmosphere surrounding the league is what got Sachin hooked. "I was there to witness the first match in Mumbai (in PKL) three years ago. The kind of energy and the vibration inside the stadium was spectacular. I have always admired sportsmen and when I went there, the speed and the agility of the players were just incredible," Sachin said during the event. When somebody asked the Little Master about a dream kabaddi team with non-kabaddi players, he said: "If I have to get a defender - it will have to be MS  . He doesn't miss much and would be great in that position. A raider is someone who has to hold his breath. When it comes to holding your breath, I don't think anyone can match (singer)  ."
 
 Ajay Thakur, who will be captaining the side, felt the team enjoyed immense connect with the locals. The team had a chance to interact with local teams and play with them in places such as Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Turicorin. "When we toured the districts, I was witness to the love people showered on us. In most places that we visited, people would come in good numbers and make us feel so special. The sport has its origins in Tamil Nadu and it is no surprise that people here adore kabaddi players so much," Ajay told TOI.
 
 Tamil Thalaivas, in order to gain greater connect with fans, have come up with their signature style to celebrate a point. "We have our way of expressing a winning point and have even called it the 'Jallikattu kick'," added Ajay.
 
 Interestingly, Ajay will be leading a side for the first time and - and he is keen to give a good account of himself. "To be captaining this side is a huge responsibility. I am entrusted with the role of taking the team along with me and I just hope to deliver," he said. Despite the presence of 7 local players in the side, Ajay said there were no problems communicating with them. "They have begun to get a grip on Hindi, and even we are picking up a few words of Tamil as well," he said.
 
