GORAKHPUR: Shuffling music videos on YouTube of 2005   ' ', starring Manoj Tiwari and Kailash Singh is angling at Ramgarh Tal, a large fishing pond in Gorakhpur.

 Ramgarh Tal is a favourite spot for romantic and action scenes of several Bhojpuri films. Kailash's excitement is palpable as he participates in a roadshow led by the film's hero, Tiwari, now BJP's star campaigner.
 
 Some 150km away from Kailash, Gautam Dubey and Bhairon Kesri are engaged in Bhojpuri banter outside Sajan Cinema for a `Mehndi Lagake Rakhna' show in Var anasi. “Ka raja...vote keke deba (So, dude, who will you vote for),“ asks Dubey , prompting a quick reply from Kesri, “Kahe tohke batayein..(why should I tell you?).“
 
 Between them, at least a few thousand Bhojpuri patrons have queued up outside the poster on a wall of the theatre that shows actor Kajal ca noodling hero Khesari Yadav.
 
 Such is the Bhojpuri fascination and conscious effort to use it in banter in Purvanchal districts that even PM Narendra Modi used a specific Bhojpuri word `Ghelua' (extra) in his town hall address to intelligentsia at Diesel Locomotive Workshop on Sunday evening. `Ghelua' means extra and Modi used it to seek support for ally partner Apna Dal which dominates Purvanchal districts, which were to vote in the sixth and seventh phases.
 
 There are three kinds of Bhojpuri dialects--Kashika, Bihari and Khaati. In Azamgarh,   MP from Kannauj and wife of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, Dimple, who has been campaigning extensively , had used Khaati dialect of Bhojpuri, with a tinge of Urdu. This one uses `e' as phonetics at the end of sentences. BJP might have done its homework on Purvanchal a wee-bit extra.
 
 It was visible in two dozen chopper jaunts for roadshows and rallies that both Manoj Tiwari and his Bhojpuri celluloid colleague Ravi Kissen made in Deoria, Gorakhpur, Mau and Kushinagar.
 
 Even RJD chief Lalu Yadav relied heavily on Bhojpuri one-liners to woo the voters in most of his rallies.
 
 “Bhojpuri is a witty language. It's not just about explicit content or posters of films.The language has more connect in   and films have only given an add-on affect to its popularity ,“ said Prof Kaushal, head of political science department at BHU.
 
