NEW DELHI: In what could warm the cockles of those who are fighting for gender equality in sports administration, the newly drafted constitution by the   (CoA) has called for at least two women representatives in the governing body of the state units of the   ( ).

 The draft report, which was submitted in the Supreme Court on Monday, not only toed the Justice (retd) RM Lodha Committee's administrative reforms but also enhanced a few of the suggestions like more women representation at the state and also disallowing the state units from nominating disqualified officials for the BCCI meetings.
 
 "The general body/managing committee of the association shall include at least one woman, at least two representatives of players (one male and one female) and a nominee of the Accountant General of the state," the BCCI draft constitution said while reiterating the Lodha reforms of having at least one woman member in the apex council through the players' association out of two.
 
 The constitution further explains that the conflict clauses clearly state that if the wife of a BCCI employee runs a catering agency that is engaged by the board, then the paid official comes under the purview of conflict. It also drew a parallel to former BCCI boss   and says that if a son-in-law of BCCI president is an   franchisee official, that board official comes in the conflict zone. Even at the state level, no state officials' wife can enter into any commercial arrangement. So much so that even running a cricket academy and becoming a selector is a conflict.
 
 Similarly, a commercial partner of an   member in some other business is with the franchisee, that board member is in indirect conflict. Also, if a commentator like   sells the stakes of his management firm to an outsider, that firm can't engage with the board later on due to prior relationship. If former Indian captain   is an IPL GC member, he can't do commentary work.
 
 Apart from leaving certain contentious reforms like one-state one-vote and the number of selectors to the Apex Court as reported earlier by TOI, the CoA has highlighted the scope of changes in the constitution subject to the approval of the Supreme Court. If an office-bearers' son enters into any commercial agreement with BCCI, it will be dubbed as direct conflict. The CoA has also empowered BCCI CEO   to make timely payments and day-to-day handling of the BCCI management.
 
 The drafted constitution, which is going to be taken up in the next SC hearing on September 19, also says that the BCCI's CEO should be a management professional with an experience of at least five years as CEO/MD of a company with a turnover of at least Rs 100 crore. It is also made clear that if a state official has completed three years in office, he will have to serve the three year cooling off before entering BCCI or the state unit again.
 
