NEW DELHI: Nearly 25 years after the  , the   on Thursday favoured a joint trial of criminal cases against senior BJP members and  , bifurcated at Lucknow and Rae Bareli, to revive the conspiracy charge against saffron veterans   and  .

 A bench of Justices P C Ghose and R F Nariman said a joint trial was needed for efficient disposal of cases and to avoid confusion which might arise if courts in Lucknow and Rae Bareli passed conflicting judgments. It said the SC could invoke its omnibus jurisdiction under Article 142 to ensure justice by directing transfer of the Rae Bareli cases to Lucknow for a joint trial.
 
 "We are required to do justice as 17 years have passed and the case could not be transferred due to a technical glitch. We will just transfer the cases pending in Rae Bareli court to Lucknow court," the bench said. "Matter pending in Rae Bareli should be transferred to Lucknow...The trial should be concluded in a time-bound manner within two years and we will order day-to-day hearing in the case," it added.
 
 The CBI said it was not averse to a joint trial but added that if the SC ordered so, then it would have to start afresh as witnesses in both cases would converge, conferring a right on every accused to cross-examine them afresh. This would mean the case could meander for a long time in the trial court as many witnesses and accused have died during pendency of the trials.
 
 Two FIRs were lodged in the case. One was against Advani, Joshi, Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore, Vinay Katiyar, Uma Bharati, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Vishnu Hari Dalmia who were on the dais at Ram Katha Kunj in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 when the Babri masjid was demolished. The other was against unknown kar sevaks who were in and around the disputed structure. While proceedings against the political figures was taken up by the Rae Bareli court, the trial against kar sevaks is on in Lucknow.
 
 Though the state government issued notification to transfer the case from Rae Bareli to Lucknow and the CBI filed a joint chargesheet against all accused, including the politicians, in the Lucknow court, the   had quashed the decision. The grounds were that the HC was not consulted for joining the two FIRs for a joint trials. The HC had said the defect was curable but the state did not issue a fresh notification and joint trial could not be conducted.
 
 Taking note of the technical glitch in holding joint trial, the SC bench of Justices Ghose and Nariman said it would remove this hindrance. The CBI told the court that it was not "averse" to joint trial but the proceedings had to be initiated afresh in Lucknow as all witnesses would have to be re-examined. Additional solicitor general Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for CBI, clarified that its appeal was confined to revival of conspiracy charges against political leaders.
 
 Senior advocate  , appearing for Advani and Joshi, vehemently opposed a joint trial on the ground that it would violate their precious right to file appeal in higher court. He said cases against politicians were distinct from those against kar sevaks and should not be clubbed.
 
 
