COIMBATORE: Indications are that the expansion of Coimbatore airport would be stalled for another year as there was no mention about it in the budget tabled in the state assembly on Thursday. The big-ticket project had been pending for the past seven years. The project will require around 600 acres of land and it’s the responsibility of the state government to facilitate the land acquisition.

 While a slew infrastructure projects such as Avinashi-Athikadavu groundwater project and renovation of dams and lakes found a place in the budget, finance minister D Jayakumar chose not to touch the airport expansion project.
 
 “Expansion of the airport is critical to the city’s growth and development. Sadly, the project is in a limbo,” said  , president of the   ( ). “The government didn’t seem to be interested in speeding up the project,” he added.
 
 In August last, the state government had created a department to acquire land for the project. It issued notices to land owners in 23 of the 24 blocks identified, inviting them for negotiations to fix the land price. However, talks broke down as the district administration and the land owners failed to reach a consensus on land price.
 
 “The government offered the 2012 guideline value for the land and it’s only a fraction of the 2016 market value of the land,” said Rajan Babu, a land owner of block seven which falls in  . He also pointed out that residents of his block were not invited for the discussion.
 
 Even the 2016 guideline value of the land was reportedly fixed based on the survey numbers and not street value of the land. “Survey numbers are used to value agriculture land, but residential areas are evaluated based on the street they are located in. As such, the government’s offer is very low,” Rajan Babu said, adding, “If the government offers us the latest guideline value, we are ready to give our lands.”
 
 Holders of leased land, which is also marked for acquisition in blocks one and two in SIHS Colony, wanted the government to settle the lease arrears and acquire it under the guideline value rates. “The authorities have instead begun building a compound wall around the land people surrendered in 2014,” said Jagannathan, another land owner.
 
 The tahsildar incharge of negotiations said he had submitted a report, along with the land owners’ demands, to the commissioner of land administration a month ago. “They have made an oral inquiry and want us to make some changes to the report and send back. They now want us to offer the 2010 guideline value prices,” said a senior revenue officer. “It is not yet a written communication though,” she added.
 
