GURUGRAM: The fate of  , planned in the 80s as a privately developed colony of 675 farmhouses but caught in legal tangles over alleged environmental violations, could be known this month-end if the National Green Tribunal passes an order on March 28.

 Launched in the late 1980s, the project, spread over 1,200 acres in   village, had run into controversy in 1990 when a petition was filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court by a person named Shekhar Singh, alleging damage to  .
 
 Documents available with TOI suggest the land in question was a mining site till 1986-87 when the Ansals started purchasing plots from private individuals for Aravali Retreat. Within a year, the Ansals, through associate companies, acquired around 1,200 acres.
 
 In 1988, ecologist S Randhawa prepared a development plan for the Retreat, keeping in mind soil preservation, water conservation, landscaping and afforestation. A 30km-long water pipeline, a 29km road, three overhead tanks and power supply infrastructure were included in accordance with Randhawa’s report during 1989-90. In 1990-91, the nature of the land was changed from ‘gair mumkin pahar’ (non-cultivable hill) to ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ in the land revenue records
 
 Then, in May 1992, the environment ministry issued a notification prohibiting all kinds of non-forestry activity in the Aravalis. 
 
 Shekhar Singh withdrew his petition from the high court. But the notification paved the way for many more cases in the coming years, bringing the project to a standstill and leaving its 675 investors in the lurch.
 
 “All development work, change of land status in the records, and DTCP (town and country planning department) approval came before the notification was issued. Till then, everything was done in accordance with the prevalent law. Yet, we’re being harassed for the last two and a half decades,” said Kuldeep Kohli, legal consultant of Aravali Retreat Raisina Welfare Association.
 
 Allegations regarding change in nature of land and violation of the Aravali Notification did not stand the scrutiny of the court. The financial commissioner and principal secretary of Haryana, in a September 2009 letter, mentioned “huge numbers of gair mumkin farmhouses have been built in the ‘pahar’ of Raisina village”.
 
 In 2014, the Faridabad environment court observed that the land in question was ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ and the Aravali Notification was not applicable. In December 2016, the high court upheld the environment court’s order.
 
 But in 2015, environmental activist Vivek Kamboj went to the NGT against the project, claiming Google images of Raisina village and surrounding Aravali areas clearly showed regular felling of trees and deforestation activities between 2005 and 2014. 
 
 “Animals, including leopards, have been spotted in these areas on several occasions. The destruction of natural habitat has forced animals to come out in the open and resulted in man-animal conflicts,” Kamboj, who runs an NGO, claimed in his petition.
 
 A senior DTCP official said all details related to the case had been presented before court. “The high court and a special environment court have passed orders. The issue is now pending before NGT,” he added. A representative of the developers said all work was done in accordance with prevalent law: “We have produced all documents before the court.” 
 
 
