BHUBANESWAR: Former Bijepur MLA Subal Sahu’s wife   will contest the bypoll for the assembly segment as BJD candidate, she said here on Saturday. The by-election is necessitated after Sahu died of cancer on August 22.

 Speaking to reporters after joining the BJD along with her two sons, Sumit and Saurabh, and hundreds of supporters here, Rita said, “It was my husband’s wish (to join the BJD).” Adding on what his mother said, Sumit said his father himself wanted to join the regional party in 2014. However, it did not materialise then for some reasons. He then wished to fight on a BJD ticket in 2019.”
 
  welcomed Sahu’s family members to the BJD, saying, “It (their joining) will strengthen the party.” A special event was organised by the BJD at its state headquarters to welcome Sahu family and their supporters.
 
 Reacting to the family deserting the Congress, MLA and   leader Tara Prasad Bahinipati said, “The family’s move will not affect his party’s strong base there.” BJP state vice-president Sameer   said the BJD’s dependence on Sahu’s family shows Naveen had lost the confidence of getting vote on his name. “It’s admission of eroding BJD support by the regional party,” Mohanty said.
 
 Though the Election Commission of India is yet to notify date for the by-election, Sahu’s family’s entry into the BJD, which was widely anticipated in the past some days, has surcharged the political atmosphere. Though labour minister Susanta Singh, who represents the adjacent   assembly segment, played a crucial role in bringing Sahu’s family into the regional party, another section in the BJD are opposed to the idea, party sources said.
 
 The Bijepur bypoll will be keenly watched by political analysts as its outcome is presumed to set the tone for the coming assembly elections in 2019.
 
 Sahu was elected to the state assembly thrice (2004, 2009, 2014) from Bijepur. In 2014, he defeated BJD heavyweight and then finance minister Prasanna Acharya in a closely fought contest by just around 400 votes. BJP’s Jayshankar Pattanaik had finished third. The situation has drastically changed after that.
 
 In the February zilla parishad elections, the BJP, won six of out of the seven ZP zones in Bijepur while the BJD won one seat, strengthening its position. While the saffron party got around 92,000 votes, the BJD got 44,000 and the Congress around 27,000.
 
