 An interaction with actor Saurabh Shukla was no less than a masterclass for mass communication students at Filmcity, Noida. The actor was at the institute with the cast of his upcoming film 'Laali Ki Shaadi Mein Laddoo Deewana'. The students asked many questions, and Shukla gave brief answers to nearly all of them. When one of the students asked, "What do you think about censorship and objections raised by different groups on various things in films?" the actor said, "I read this somewhere – 'I am responsible for what I say, I am not responsible for what you understand'." Some students asked Shukla to say one of the dialogues from Satya, to which he replied, "I will tell you a story – I have a good friend named  , and at a wedding in his hometown, one of his relatives, who's a surgeon, asked him to say a dialogue from Satya. Manoj replied, 'If I asked you to show me how a surgery is done, will you do it?' So everything is not to be done everywhere. Har cheez ki ek jagah hoti hai, uski garima rakhni chahiye."

  
  
 
 
 
  
  (L) Saurabh Shukla at the event, (R) A student asked   to wish a friend on their birthday! (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
 Vivaan Shah, who plays the character of Laddoo in the film, said that working with an actor like Shukla was a great learning experience for him. "I've been his fan since childhood. I was a kid when I first met him, aur milte hi chadh gaya main inke upar 'Kallu Mama Kallu Mama' kar ke. Tab se I have been wanting to work with him."
 
  
  (L-R) Kavitta Verma and Vivaan Shah
 
 
 
  
  As Gurmeet Choudhary arrived and students cheered for him, Shukla said, "When I entered and I heard the students cheering for me, I was really happy. But now I know that someone is more popular than me." While some wanted to take selfies with Gurmeet, others wanted to hug him and some even wanted him to wish a friend on their birthday! The actor happily obliged. "Agar kisi ko naamkaran ya mundan ke liye wish karana ho toh woh mere paas aaye," said Shukla, tongue firmly in cheek.
 
  
 Manish Harishankar, the director, said, "This film is a love story, it is a family entertainer and it is also a funny story, but it also has an interesting message. If a girl conceives before marriage and if a guy is not willing to take the responsibility, what should a girl do in such a case?"
 
 
  
  Rahul Aggarwal, the co-producer of the film, also spoke about the recent protests by the members of   (VHP) outside producer TP Aggarwal's office in Mumbai. The   members have reportedly demanded that a scene in which a pregnant woman is getting married to another man should be deleted, and that the film should be shown to them before release. Rahul said that these kind of protests are baseless after the CBFC has passed the film without a single cut. "The film is about pre-marital pregnancy, and a certain section of people think we should not show that. There is nothing objectionable in the film, but today, no matter what you make, there is some or the other section of people who will be offended. As a filmmaker, one has to be ready to face anything. These days, people are very touchy, they get offended too easily, but we can't be intimidated by dharnas and morchas. We stand by the product that we have made. Everyone is trying to be the censor board today," said Rahul.
 
  
  (L-R) Rahul Aggarwal, the co-producer and Sandeep Marwah
 
 
 
  
 
 
