PUNE: The   have booked a 24-year-old woman, who had allegedly married a second time despite her first marriage being in subsistence, for alleged extortion, cheating,   and other  

 The woman’s parents, brother and uncle have also been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). 
 
 The chef’s 57-year-old mother, a resident of Laxminagar in Parvati, lodged an FIR with the police on Saturday alleging that her daughter-in-law’s uncle threatened her son’s friend. As per the complaint, the friend was warned that the mother and son would be killed if the chef did not agree to a divorce and give the woman Rs25 lakh.
 
 The uncle allegedly showed bullets of a firearm to threaten the friend, who later narrated the incident to the complainant. 
 
 As of now, a case of harassment lodged by the woman against her first husband is   before a court. In 2016, she also lodged a case of dowry harassment against her   and in-laws apart from demanding Rs25 lakh to settle the matter, the complainant alleged. 
 
 Once the police complaint was filed, the chef’s family investigated her past and found that she had married to a man from Shirur in 2014 but hadn’t stayed with him. 
 
 The complainant, a widow, stated in the FIR that her elder son had a registered marriage with the woman in 2015 after they connected through a matrimonial site. The woman didn’t mention that she was married and hadn’t secured a divorce from her first husband. 
 
 After the wedding, the complainant’s elder son left for Australia while his wife stayed behind with her mother at Ambegaon-Khurd. The woman never resided with her in-laws at Laxminagar and allegedly created a ruckus, demanding money whenever she visited her in-laws, the FIR stated. 
 
 Without informing her husband and in-laws, the woman had visited Dubai with her male friends and posted her photographs with other men on a social networking site. The chef’s friend saw these photographs and alerted him. Following this, the couple argued over the phone, the police said. 
 
 The woman’s uncle then contacted the chef’s friend and took him to a restaurant on   where he allegedly issued threats to him, the police added. 
 
 The FIR stated that, in August 2016, the woman visited Australia and barged into her husband’s office in an inebriated condition. While an argument ensued between the couple, the woman threatened to commit suicide if the money was not paid up. She also threatened to malign the chef’s image in Australia to destroy his career, the FIR added. 
 
 The Dattawadi police is probing the case and will call in the uncle in question soon.
 
