Campaigning came to an end on Friday for byelections in the Srinagar   constituency and 11 assembly seats across the country where polling would be held on Sunday. 

 In the second phase, polling would be held on April 12 in the Anantnag and Malappuram parliamentary constituencies and the prestigious   assembly seat which was represented by the late Jayalalithaa.
 
 The elections are being held in the backdrop of reservations of several opposition leaders against   (EVMs).
 
 Of the three Lok Sabha seats, Srinagar and Anantnag were held by BJP’s ally PDP while Mallapuram was represented by IUML, which is among the Opposition in the Lok Sabha. 
 
 While former J&K chief minister and   patron Farooq Abdullah is contesting from Srinagar against PDP’s Nazir Khan, Bollywood cinematographer-turned-politician   is trying his luck from Anantnag, which fell vacant after the resignation of his sister and chief minister Mehbooba Mufti.
 
 In Malappuram, which fell vacant after the death of IUML MP E Ahamed, the party’s general secretary P K Kunhalikutty is taking on young CPM leader M B Faizal.
 
 BJP has fielded its district vice-president N Sreeprakash.
 
 Even as the role of cow vigilantes and the backing they receive from some BJP leaders has come under intense debate across the country, Sreeprakash’s declaration that he will ensure the supply of beef if elected has become a major point of discussion in the campaign.
 
 In Madhya Pradesh, elections in   and Bandhavgarh are being held in the backdrop of the controversy over an EVM demo in Bhind. The machine gave out BJP slips on pressing random buttons during the demonstration held in the presence of chief electoral officer of MP, Saleena Singh. 
 
 Bypoll in Ater was necessitated after the death of former leader of the opposition Satyadev Katare in October and Congress is hoping that sympathy for him will see his son Hemant through. BJP has fielded its state vicepresident Arvind Bhadoriya.
 
 In Karnataka, the bypolls are an acid test for chief minister   as both the seats, Nanjangud and Gundlupet, were held by Congress. An upset will be a morale booster for BJP ahead of assembly polls in the state later this year.
 
 In RK Nagar, it’s a fight for Amma’s legacy between the two AIADMK factions led by Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran and former Tamil Nadu CM O Pannerselvam. DMK is also in the fray.
 
