VADODARA:   has made   for all the   taking admission in the  . 

 The thalassemia screening committee of the university has informed deans of all the faculties regarding the new rules which make it mandatory for new students to get the test done in order to obtain their final eligibility. 
 
 If a student has already undergone the test any time before taking admission in the university, he or she needs to attach the copy of the report at the time of admission. He or she will not require to undergo the test again. 
 
 “Earlier, thalassemia screening was voluntarily for students. Of the 18,000 students that enrol in first year, only 1,200 have undergone the screening. We have taken the decision to make it compulsory so that more students are made aware about thalassemia and the precautionary measures that they need to take if they are suffering from thalassemia,” said Dr Annie Kuruvilla, convenor of the thalassemia screening committee.
 
 Those students who haven’t undergone such test can get the test done at concessional rate of Rs 150 at the university head centre which has tied up with The Indian Red Cross Society. 
 
 The charges for the test will be collected in the union pavilion during the time of admission procedure by the personnel from The Indian Red Cross Society and a receipt will be given. 
 
 The date for blood collection will be written on the receipt.
 
 Two copies of the receipt will be given to the student of which one copy needs to be submitted at the faculty along with the bank receipt while the other copy has to be brought to the university health centre on the date written on the receipt for blood screening. 
 
 The blood report will be mailed to students individually. The blood report will also be available to the student at the university health centre after five days from the date of blood collection. A copy of the blood report has to be submitted to the respective faculty. 
 
 Students can also get the test done from any certified pathological laboratory. 
 
 
