Eagerly waiting for the release of Gurinder Chadha’s historical saga Partition 1947, in which he has essayed the role of Muhammad Ali  , popular actor   is an excited man. While theatre remains his first love, he believes, “An actor cannot survive in this country doing theatre alone.” Speaking to us after captivating a packed auditorium in the city, where his play   was staged, the actor who’ll also be seen in the upcoming   and Katrina Kaif-starrer Jagga Jasoos, got candid about Bollywood, Hollywood and the theatre scene in the country. Excerpts:

 Tell us about the film Partition-1947? There are so many films on the subject, how different is this one?
 I think the audience will appreciate the film because it explores the Partition episode from a different angle and also makes new revelations. From what we have been taught — be it in school curriculum or otherwise — we always blame our leaders for the Partition; especially their infighting. But, this film shows us that Partition was a master plan of global powers. Known as ‘The Great Game’, they wanted to divide India for their benefit in the post-World War global political scenario. I don’t want to divulge more about the plot but it will change our perceptions on the Partition forever.
 
 Playing Jinnah on reel must have been exciting. Did the role change your perception about the founder of Pakistan?
 My role as Jinnah will help unravel some of the greatest puzzles associated with the Partition. Jinnah has been much vilified in India. But in reality, he was a secularist who always stood for a united India. In fact, he envisioned Pakistan as a secular republic but it’s just unfortunate that today the country has turned out to be quite opposite of what he had aspired and fought for in his life.
 
 You have acted in so many films but never gave up theatre. What do you have to say about the theatre scene today in India?
 Firstly, I’m very passionate about theatre and have been fortunate to have acted alongside great actors like Naseeruddin Shah. I think, theatre gives me an opportunity to connect with the audience directly and establish a bond. But it is not easy for a theatre artiste to survive in a place like Mumbai. I have worked in good productions like Waiting for Godot, as well as commercial Hindi films only to sustain myself. The theatre scene is of course getting better but an actor cannot survive in the country doing theatre alone. As an actor, one needs to do a lot of other things simultaneously to sustain oneself. But, it’s good people are creating more alternative places for artistes in Mumbai.
 
 How did you get into acting? Do you have a mentor?
 I hail from an Anglo-indian family and my father had a good musical sense, though he worked as a public servant . He was always supportive. Later, my association with Naseer (Naseeruddin Shah) and the booming theatre scene in Mumbai helped me immensely. 
 
 It must be exciting to work in Bollywood nowadays…
 Bollywood is becoming very technical and is entering an important phase in its evolution. I see a bright future for the industry and actors. My association with The Lunchbox director Ritesh Batra has convinced me of the new breed of filmmakers who have ushered in creativity and vigour into Bollywood.
 
 You have worked in many Hollywood productions. But your role in The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel stands out. How was it to work with director   and actors such as Judi Dench and Maggie Smith?
 I have made a lot of memories during the shoot of The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. I respect director John Madden for his creativity. He is always open to new ideas. For instance, in the second part of the movie, I had a scene where I had to accept bribe. I wanted to do it like how Indian bureaucrats do. So I suggested Madden an idea and he made my co-actor put the money in a drawer the way how it happens in the bureaucrats’ offices. It was fun working with Judi Dench and Maggie Smith. They have so much of energy which is phenomenal to have in their age. 
 
