After beating   with 37 runs in the final, the cricket team of   (JMC) became the first champions of the   Inter-College Talent Tournament. The final was played between Gargi and JMC at Roshanara Club on Friday. With JMC winning the toss and choosing to bat first, the team scored 88 runs with the loss of nine wickets. While many, including Gargi’s team, thought that the score was too easy to chase, JMC did not give any chance to Gargi to achieve the target. JMC took the first wicket in the second over and managed to put the pressure on Gargi since the beginning. And by each passing over, the team kept losing its wickets. Finally, the team lost all its wickets and managed to score only 51 runs.
 
 
  
  A bowler in action (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 After the match,  , captain of JMC’s team, told us that she did not expect her team to perform the way they had. 'Our score wasn’t great, but our bowlers managed to do a decent job. I am proud of my team today, the fielding was on point. We won only because of our fielding. Gargi ko harana aasan nahin hai, it is a competitive team, but we are glad that we are the first champions of WCL. Jeet ke toh achha lag hi raha hai," she said.
 
 
 
  
  JMC takes a Gargi wicket (BCCL)
 
 
 Mansi Jain, a player from JMC’s team, added, "Iss league se bahut logon ka perception change hoga women’s cricket ko leke. People think that our matches are one-sided, the scores are always low, and the matches are not even competitive enough. But I think time is changing now. And cricket for women is slowly getting the encouragement it deserves."
 
 
 
 When former Indian cricketer  , who had also come to encourage the girls at the final, asked Gargi’s cricketers whether they enjoyed the match, some said, ‘Yes’ in a disappointed tone, to which Bedi added, "Par aapki shakalein toh kuch aur bata rahi hain. How will you enjoy losing? We play any sport to win so work harder next time.'
 
 Nazma Khan, the captain of Gargi’s team, told us, "We tried our best, but it wasn’t our day. The score was easy to chase, but most of our batswomen did not even score more than 10 runs. Nahin ho paata hai kabhi kabhi. We’ll try our luck next year now."
 
 
 
 
 After playing three matches with six competing teams, and working hard for more than three weeks, Jesus and Mary College emerged victorious in the T20 Women Cricket League (WCL) on Friday. While JMC entered the finals by beating Lakshmibai College in the semi-final with 99 runs, Gargi College beat Kamala Nehru College with 72 runs to reach the final.
 
 
 
 The second match for the semi-final was between Gargi College and Kamala Nehru College (KNC) at the sports ground of Gargi. While there was pressure on Gargi’s players to perform well on its own ground, KNC’s players gave them a tough match by scoring 71 runs with the loss of eight wickets. Gargi scored 72 runs in 14 overs and two wickets. "It was important for us to win on our home ground, this is our college, toh yahan toh jeetna hi tha. We are ready to face JMC in the finals because we have faced them in the inter-college tournament that is organized by DU. We are quite confident that we can win the final as well," said Nazma Khan, captain of Gargi College’s cricket team.
 
 
  
  Gargi College beat Kamala Nehru College in semi-finals (BCCL)
 
 
 Sarika Singh, the captain of KNC, added, "Our score could have been better. Our bowlers played well, but we could have improved our game. But we are happy with the encouragement that we got at this tournament. We only get to play once or twice during the whole year but this is the only T20 match at this level that is being played between six teams. Initiatives like this can only help us in improving our game."
 
 
 
 The girls were competing with each other on the ground, but all of them seemed positive about the future of women cricketers in India. "We all play on a professional level and we aim to play for our national team as well. Ghar wale toh support karte hi hain, par ab aise tournaments se bhi bahut encouragement milne laga hai," said Sakshi Yadav from Gargi’s team.
 
 Nitish Kumari from KNC’s team added, "Woh din gaye jab log kehte thay ki ladkiyan cricket nahin khel sakti. Aaj ladkiyan sab kar sakti hain, chahe woh padhai ho ya cricket khelna, woh cricket bhi achha khel sakti hain aur padhai bhi."
 
 
 
 
 
