MUMBAI: In an unexpected U-turn, former Congress MP   on Monday said he would campaign extensively for the party’s nominees in the  .

 “Owing to my differences with city Congress chief  , I had not only withdrawn from the election process, but declared that I will not campaign for the  ,” Kamat told TOI.
 
 “I had strong reservations over the manner in which the Congress had selected nominees for the BMC elections. However, in view of mounting pressure from candidates and party workers, I have decided to reverse my decision. Wherever there is a demand, I will campaign for Congress nominees,” he added. Kamat’s decision assumes significance, since former chief minister Narayan Rane, former ministers Naseem Khan and Kripa Shankar Singh, who had distanced themselves from the campaign, have relented. 
 
  “I will campaign in north-east, north-west and south central areas. We will make all out efforts to dislodge the   and BJP from the BMC,’’ Kamat said.
 
 From the time Nirupam was appointed city Congress chief, Kamat has been at loggerheads with him. Their differences reached the peak after the BMC elections were declared. Kamat had declared that he was withdrawing from the entire election process and he also tweeted that Nirupam and Congress general secretary Mohan Prakash were making deliberate attempts to drive away loyal party workers. Kamat had pointed out that no efforts had been made to stop senior Congress leader Krishna Hegde from joining the BJP.
 
 Kamat’s contention was that there was no policy or norms laid down for selecting nominees for the BMC elections. “Before finalizing the nominations, the Congress should have fixed norms on whether or not a person, who has been defeated twice should be given a nomination,” he said.
 
 Nirupam did not respond to charges levelled by Kamat, saying, he would reply after the BMC elections were over. Former Union minister Milind Deora had reacted strongly, saying that defectors and saboteurs should be expelled from the party forever, but he did not name them. As the cold war between Nirupam and Kamat was going on, Deora had tweeted on several occasions.
 
 A senior Congress leader said while the NCP, BJP and Shiv Sena have taken a lead in campaigning, Congress was lagging . “We were expecting that the campaign committee headed by Deora would assign specific tasks to senior Congress leaders in Mumbai, but so far there has been no communication,” he said. The civic polls are scheduled to take place on February 21. 
 
 
