 It was an unusual evening when Magic Hands, in association with Bliss Foundation and   Patient Aid Association (CPAA), hosted an event in Noida to celebrate cancer survivors. The evening saw energetic performances by a group of the cancer survivors – or the champions – as they called themselves. The champions presented a special qawwali for the audience on the theme of 'ishq'. Through their Bollywood-style performance, the group wanted to show their journey from being healthy to facing cancer and defeating it. While the participants danced on the stage, some audience members joined them, too.  , a member of the group, said, "We are here to spread awareness about cancer, we want to tell the people to be body aware, get a mammogram at 40, eat well, exercise and prioritize yourself."

  
   , one of the special guests of the evening, who pumped in some more energy into the crowd (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 Talking about their performance, Meenu, said, "We have been to many awareness events where we have seen people crying about cancer, 'cancer yeh, cancer woh.' It's so depressing. People behave as if there is nothing left after that. What we have done here, in our performance, is that we have substituted cancer with the word ishq. Just how ishq mein insaan sudh budh kho deta hai, humne bhi is bimari mein sudh budh kho diya tha, but now it’s not there anymore, only we are here and we are happy."
 
  
  Let's groove (BCCL/Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 
  
  LIVING IT UP! (L) Meenu Madaan, a cancer survivor
 
 
 
  
  Cancer survivors, who called themselves champions, presented a special Bollywood-style qawwali on their journey
 
 
 
 The star performer of the evening was Sucheta Pal. The zumba instructor pumped in some more energy into an already charged-up audience when she got on the stage and led a zumba session. Talking about the event and the disease, Sucheta said, "I have dear friends around the country who are zumba instructors as well as cancer survivors. Such people are an inspiration for others. There is also a direct relation between zumba and health. Especially for women. They might be strong naturally, but mentally and physically you are exhausted and depressed, and zumba is one of the few things that brings back that happy drug in them."   was the chief guest at the event. Others who attended the event included  , former MLA and Usha Thakur, a social worker.
 
  
  Shahnaz Husain
 Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
  
  Vimla Batham
 Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 
  
  Chhota packet, bada dhamaka: Anika joined Sucheta on stage and added to the fun
 
 
  
  Check out my moves
 Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
  Niyati Sharma (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  --Aditi.Malewar@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
