On his 45th birthday, film maker   had a live Facebook chat with his favourite student,  , in the course of which the 24-year-old   quizzed her mentor on love, life and turning a year younger. The chat, "Aloo with Alia" had 45 rapid fire questions and the birthday boy insisted that after 10 years Alia would take his position as celebrity talk show host, with her own show. Alia was certainly able to get KJo to admit that patches and badges are the newest fashion fad and everyone should try it. When KJo revealed that he'd be launching three new faces this year, Alia, sporting a hip summer haircut, announced "breaking news".

  
  
 Thirty minutes into the chat, KJo confessed to being afraid of flying, while Alia, who was far from sympathetic, laughed uncontrollably. "I listen to everything pilots say. If they say it's going to be a little bumpy, I want to kill them. I read every safety instruction too," he said and Alia added that he was screaming the one time she flew with him. Years ago, there was a system glitch and oxygen masks dropped down midair. There was no ocean below, but Karan had frantically looked for a vest below his seat, over-reacting even though his co-passengers were stoically calm.
 
 She went on to ask him how he gets through a bad day. “You don't get through a bad day, you live it. You've got to confront a tragedy, problems and bad moments. You cannot look through rose-tinted glasses because glasses are scratched, broken and worn out."
 
 He added that he's found peace, through a sense of abandonment."Now, I care less, I fear less and I invest more. It's come with age, experience and a lot of maturity," he asserted, but admitted he still can't say 'no'. "It's my desire to please and be Ms Congeniality, so I can't see disappointment on anyone's face because of me," he sighed.
 
 The reflective mood was broken as he recalled a photographer who'd snapped him for a portfolio, tell   that "the lead actor" was a total diva. An amused SRK pointed out that KJo was the director.
 
 When asked the worst thing about being a celebrity, he quipped, "Fame is not an impediment, it is a luxury and we should be grateful. You get all kinds of reservations faster, you get love and respect. Unless you're Salman, Aamir or Shah Rukh Khan, you're fine. Even an Alia Bhatt can go watch a film or shop at a mall and only three-four people will stare or ask for selfies. No one really cares."
 
 The chat ended with cake and Alia gifting KJo a black jumper with "Daddy of the Year" written on it. "Now, I'm DOTY" the SOTY-director beamed.
 
  
  
  
  
 
