VISAKHAPATNAM: A 52-year-old man with swine flu died in a corporate hospital at Ramnagar on Wednesday. Official sources from the department of medical and health said the victim came to the city from West Bengal on Sunday with severe health condition. He did not respond to the emergency treatment and died on Wednesday at around 3.30 am. 

 Health officials said the person was a businessman by profession and got infected with the disease 20 days back. The officials said they were now getting cases from Odisha and West Bengal. Meanwhile, as people throng theatres to watch Baahubali 2, health officials warn of spike in the outbreak of swine flu. Health officials said large gathering at theatre halls and the recently held Chandanotsavam atop Simhachalam hill are two incidents which could result in the spread of the swine flu virus in the city. 
 
 L Kalyan Prasad, Visakhapatnam district epidemiologist for Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) and in-charge of swine flu cases, told TOI that the H1N1 virus was still prevalent in the city with five people undergoing treatment at corporate hospitals. The virus is more active in cold climes. The air conditioning in theatres provide scope for the spread the virus, said Kalyan Prasad. “Overall, we are suspecting the spread of swine flu due to these two factors. We tested more than 250 cases from north coastal   and neighbouring states like Odisha and finally confirmed 63 as positive from January 1 till date. We have reported two deaths including each one in January and April,”   said. TP Anantham, manager of Leela Mahal and secretary of Visakhapatnam Film Exhibitors Association, said the initial mad rush at theatres was gradually decreasing. Regarding health issues, he said the theatre management takes steps to ensure the theatres and toilets are clean before every show. However, to prevent spread of swine flu and other diseases, the audience should be more responsible and take preventive measures like wearing masks in public places, he said.
 
 Anantham said Visakhapatnam city has nearly 35 single screen theatres and 18 multiplexes. Except two theatres, all theatres have AC. Dr KV Ram Kumar, managing director of   in the city, said, “People should not feel shy to wear mask in public places. They should at least place a handkerchief on their mouth and nose to avoid infection from viruses. People also should always keep washing their hands before eating anything.” In 2015, Visakhapatnam district registered 44 positive cases and 3 deaths due to swine flu. In 2014, two people died of swine flu in Visakhapatnam district and there were no reported cases in 2016.
 
 
