NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old JNU student has alleged that she was raped by two Afghan nationals, one of whom had met her at a pub in south Delhi and invited her to his house in Green Park, where the crime took place on January 12.

 The accused, Twaab Ahmed, alias Saleem, 27, and Sulaiman Ahmadi, 31, have been arrested, an officer said.
 
 The woman, an undergraduate student at  , said in her statement that she was raped after she had passed out at Saleem's house.
 
 The survivor had gone to a pub at   village with a female friend where she came across Saleem. He knew the friend and had met the survivor a few times earlier. Saleem approached the two and struck up a conversation.They had dinner after which he allegedly invited the two to his place for an after-party.
 
 At the house, Saleem introduced the women to three others, including Sulaiman. In her complaint, the survivor said there was a bonfire party on the terrace after which her friend returned to JNU while she stayed back. She soon passed out. When the woman woke up, she realised Sulaiman was trying to force himself on her. The survivor said she later got to know that Saleem and Sulaiman had sexually assaulted her when she was not in her senses.
 
 The survivor went back to her hostel in JNU and narrated the incident to her friends. They accompanied her to the Safdarjung police station and registered a complaint. She was taken to a hospital for medical examination.
 
 An FIR was lodged following which the cops arrested the duo and sent them to Tihar jail in 14-day judicial custody. An officer said the two men were found to be holding cards purportedly issued by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR). Saleem worked as an event manager while Suleiman was unemployed. The two had come to Delhi on a foreign exchange programme.
 
 Cops have found some discrepancies in their documents and have contacted the Afghan embassy in this regard. Saleem has been living in the city for 10 years while Suleiman had come two years ago, police said.
 
 The cops said they would soon file a chargesheet in the case. The victim's statement has been recorded before a magistrate and her friend has given her account to the police. The accused have denied they assaulted the woman. Saleem has claimed that he even came to the police station as soon as he was informed about the complaint.
 
