Chennai: A drive to verify the credentials of trucks mining sand from quarries across the state has weeded out about 50,000 vehicles that were hitherto plying without proper accreditation. The move initiated by the   ( ) last month found that only 54,000 lorries had valid papers. Their registration numbers were fed into an online database at https://www.tnsand.in/ on Wednesday. Only these trucks will henceforth be allowed to mine sand in the quarries, whose operations were taken over by the state government in May this year.

 PWD officials said around 1.1 lakh lorries were engaged in ferrying sand from quarries in different parts of Tamil Nadu. These vehicles were directed to participate in a special verification   aimed at regulating   in August. "Of these, only 59,000 trucks turned up for the camp and 54,000 were registered," a senior PWD official told TOI. Five thousand trucks were blacklisted for a variety of reasons pertaining to absence of documents including permits. Asked why the remaining 50,000 trucks were not present for the camp, he said a chunk of them could have been running with fake numbers. "Otherwise, what could have prevented the lorries from taking part in the camp," the official asked.
 
 The special verification camp was conducted in all the districts for a week in August as part of the government’s efforts to curb sand lorries from indulging in malpractices. One of the main aims of the drive was to eliminate lorries that were using fake numbers.   (TSLOA) president R Munirathinam said that some lorries involved in sand mining were operating with fake registration numbers in the past. Welcoming the drive, he said, "This has helped to identify the genuine trucks scooping sand over the years."
 
 Meanwhile, PWD officials are planning to conduct another special camp in October for the registration of trucks that did not produce appropriate documents during the previous drive. "A few applicants committed minor errors in registration during the past drive that led to their elimination. The second drive is meant for such vehicles," the official added.
 
 
