Nashik: College students and others visited the water treatment plant ( ) at Nilgiri Baug of Panchavati and sewage treatment plant (STP) in Tapovan in large numbers on Wednesday, on account of  .

 The   (NMC) had opened the plants out to the citizens on March 16 to inform them about the water supply, filtration and sewage treatment.
 
 The STP and WTP were open to people for a month but the formal announcement for observing World Water Week was made a week ago. Engineers at the site informed about the working of the plants. 
 
 “The idea was to let people know where they get their water from and how it reaches their houses after filtration, what happens to the sewage that they generate and how it is treated. It was also to create awareness among them about how to use water judiciously. Some of them knew how the water was supplied and treated and how the sewage was treated but had never seen the process. Most of them were unaware of these things,” said an NMC official. 
 
 Executive engineer (mechanical) BG Mali said, “In one week, around 400 students from nine colleges and 350 citizens visited the plants. In a month, students from around 40 colleges and a few other citizens visited the STP. Nearly 4,090 visitors came to learn about the STP in a month. We had kept it open for a month so that maximum number of people can learn about the sewage treatment. We had 7,000 visitors at the WTP in a month.”
 
 All eyes on  : Suresh Khanpurkar of the Shirpur Water Conservation fame, while addressing a seminar on water conservation on World Water Day said that along with financial corruption, technical corruption also needs to be stopped. 
 
 Khanpurkar was speaking at the seminar ‘Winning Every Drop of Water’, conducted by the district environment committee of the Rotary Club. Joining Khanapurkar at the seminar were former senior scientist of ministry of environment and forests and climate change Madan Prakash, Dr Karthik of NEERI and NMC head of the environment cell SR Vanjari. Rotarians and members of the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MACCIA) were also present.
 
 “There can be no water scarcity in Maharashtra and the rest of the country if it is saved and used properly. Rainwater is not insufficient but there is no proper management of it,” Khanapurkar said.
 
 
