CHENNAI: An internal probe by the   division of   into a ‘travel allowance’ scam has indicated that Travelling Ticket Examiners (TTEs) claimed allowance by showing they carried out their duties on trains which were cancelled.

 Documents accessed by TOI show at least 10 TTEs were issued chargesheet for failing to maintain devotion to their duty and acted in a manner unbecoming of a railway servant, committing grave misconduct.
 
 The zonal railway is grappling with complaints from passengers about TTEs not turning up for work on trains, leading to those with unreserved tickets encroaching upon reserved berths, inconveniencing all. Officials said the TTEs claimed allowance without reporting for duty and stayed put at one station, while filing reports that they travelled on trains. They have been charged with causing revenue loss to the railways.
 
 A random check of TA bills and Excess Fare Tickets (EFTs) submitted has exposed this scam, which is widespread across the zone, officials said.
 
 For instance, a chargesheet issued to a chief ticketing inspector (CTI) shows he submitted his cash earnings at the booking office in Trichy saying he travelled on train no: 16178 to Vriddhachalam. However, the said train was fully cancelled due the December 2015 deluge which hit many districts in  .
 
 The same   said on July 23, 2016, he travelled by train no: 16187 and that he remitted the cash at Trichy booking office at 8.22pm, while the train left Trichy at 8:20pm. “It is not humanely possible to remit the cash while he was travelling in the train,” the chargesheet notes.
 
 Another TTE who travellled on July 6, 2015, on train no: 16127 showed it left Villupuram at 10:45am and arrived at Trichy at 1:50pm. However, on that day the train ran through a diverted route and arrived at Trichy only at 3:30pm. The said TTE also over-stayed at Villupuram station without earnings on at least 50 days.
 
 Supervisors of TTEs who passed these bills without due verification have also been pulled up, documents show.
 
 
