BIJNOR: As   have begun to gain steam, district authorities here are on their toes for the last couple of months. Even as they have hunted down innumerable illicit liquor units which have sprung up in large numbers ahead of the polls, there is another menace that needs to be tackled – binge-drinking elephants. Officials fear that these sloshed jumbos might create considerable havoc in villages surrounding the forest areas and the Ganga. Herds of elephants from the Amangarh and   are drawn by the strong smell of the locally-made brew. Once intoxicated, forest officials said chances of these beasts making merry at the expense of villagers run high.
 
  According to sources, these alcohol units are set up in the sugarcane fields near dense forests. Stockpiles of the hooch attract these beasts who go berserk, often damaging huts and rampaging fields of the villagers. Forest officials said raids in the areas are a must to keep the jumbos at bay.
  
  According to data provided by the excise department, 202 cases were registered against liquor mafias in December last year, out of which 41 accused were sent to jail. Police and the excise department recovered 2,586 litres of liquor from their possession.
  
  District excise officer   said, “We have formed three teams led by different inspectors to raid suspected areas. Large amounts of hooch have already been recovered so far. We have been keeping a strict vigil.”
    (ATR), home to around 35 elephants, is connected to the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Many a times, elephants from Corbett wander towards ATR. With several sugarcane fields and illicit liquor units surrounding ATR, jumbos steer towards human habitation.
  
  Divisional forest officer, M Semmaran said, “Elephants can smell liquor from a distance of two kilometres. They usually go on a rampage after consuming alcohol. Although we have not received any reports of damage yet, all forest officials have been instructed to keep a vigil on the areas. A meeting was recently held in Afjalgarh to appeal to all villagers not to engage in illicit-liquor manufacture.”
  
    (ASP) MM Beg said, “We have launched a special drive after the model code of conduct was enforced in the state. Police have been on its toes to keep stop these manufacturing units.”
