JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje launched the Centre's   `Swachhta Hi Seva' ( ) from   due to her sickness.

 She cancelled her visit to Gator village, near the airport, where the BJP government had organised a ceremony to kickstart the campaign on Sunday ahead of the third anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission that falls on October 2. Raje's schedule was cancelled at the last minute considering her illness after she reached Jaipur's state hangar from Jhalawar. In a brief meeting with the media, Raje said, “I have been promised by the mayor that Jaipur city will be so clean that it will secure first rank.“
 
 Hundreds of villagers, party workers and students who had gathered at Gator returned disappointed after CM did not turn up for the event.
 
 Meanwhile, it was announced that over the next 15 days, Jaipurites will start cleaning the Pink City to make it squeaky clean. Mayor Ashok Lahoti said, “Our aim is to make city clean by Diwali festival. Residents should cooperate with JMC administration to make their city clean. In each ward, the dirtiest places should be identified and trees should be planted on those spots.“
 
 JMC officials said that each day , 5-6 wards of the city will take up the cleaning campaign.This will be done by employing available resources. They will remove garbage, bushes and filth that make the city dirty.
 
 The JMC has also roped in social organisations, activists and NGOs to make the cam paign successful. The mayor said that many organisations such as Lion's Club, Rotaray Club etc have come forward to join the campaign. Other than social organisations, such Jain Social Group, mohalla vikas samitis, trader associations, hospitals, schools, colleges, NCC scouts and guides will join the cleanliness campaign. This year, the state is leaving no stone unturned to secure top position in the Swachh Survekshan-2018 ranking. The Centre recently announced that the survey will rank 500 cities with more than one lakh population according to various cleanliness parameters. “The Centre has revised the methodology of the survey this year. The cumu lative marks will now be 4,000, up from 2,000 in 2017. All the cities will be ranked based on 71 sanitation-related parameters with different weightage. Negative marking has been introduced this time to ensure that cities do not make false claims about improving the sanitation infrastructure,“ said a senior official.
 
