NEW DELHI: There is more bad news for debt-laden   (RCom), a day after it announced termination of merger deal with  . Now RCom’s Rs 11,000 crore tower deal with Canada’s   is off in its present form, and is being reviewed.

 Puneet Garg, president of the company’s telecom business who has now been inducted into RCom’s Board, said the deal with Brookfield is being reworked after the withdrawal of the Aircel merger. However, he insisted that the tower deal will still go through, though with changes.
 
 “RCom and Brookfield are in discussions on the tower arm stake sale and are deeply engaged,” Garg told TOI. “The final deal value will be different due to the lack of additional Aircel tenancies.”
 
 Garg said the new, revised deal could be announced “in the next few weeks”. However, he refused to give an answer on whether RCom would cede more control to Brookfield as part of the revised negotiations.
 
 The original deal envisaged Brookfield picking up a 51% stake in RCom’s tower business, and was also worked upon keeping the Aircel merger in mind.
 
 “The merger would have meant that Aircel shifts its base to RCom’s towers, thus boosting the tenancies. However, this may not happen now, putting a question mark on the original deal value of Rs 11,000 crore,” a top telecom analyst in the know of things told TOI, though requesting anonymity.
 
 “Also, there are serious — and valid — questions on the survival of the telecom business of both RCom and Aircel after the collapse of their merger talks. They are losing money, even as the debt pile is mounting. In this scenario, the viability of towers and current tenancies (a big portion of them is occupied by RCom itself) will also be relooked, and thus re-negotiated.”
 
 Garg blamed companies such as Bharti Infratel, GTL Infrastructure and Ericsson, those he claimed had “derailed plans” of the Aircel merger.
 
 “Who have benefited from this? They had put frivolous claims before the National Company Law Tribunal. They were short-sighted. They would have benefited if the merger happened as it would have created a larger and bigger company.”
 
 The company — which has adebt of nearly Rs 47,000 crore —had on Sunday blamed the deal call-off on “inordinate delays” caused by “legal and regulatory uncertainties and various interventions by vested interests.”
 
 RCom has also said that it is evaluating an “alternate plan” for mobile business, but Garg did not elaborate much on this front. Asked if there could be a merger with Reliance Jio — with whom the RCom has tower, fiber and spectrum sharing arrangements — he said any future deal could be looked at only once the company works out a plan to cut its massive debt.
 
 
