NEW DELHI: The three Ds of disruption — demographics, deregulation and digitisation — are perfectly aligned in India, which is thereby poised for an entrepreneurial leap,   chief executive officer   declared at the Global Business Summit.
 
  The country is at the tipping point of disruption, which needs to be explained to Indians as being a positive force, said the bank’s founder and head of the YES Global Institute.
  
  “Demographics and the statistics behind demographics, including the income power being generated by demographics, is a very important D,” he said. Deregulation referred to the rapid pace at which the government has been removing speed breakers and helping improve  . All the good ideas of federal government should cascade into the states, underscoring the spirit of cooperative federalism as espoused by the Modi government, said Kapoor.
  
  The third element, which has been gradual in India, is digitisation, he said. The government’s initiative on this front means India is ready for another quantum jump. “We have been ready to embrace digital in the past few months,” said Kapoor.
  
  There still is “the fear of the missing out” or the unknown in the system. Another factor that holds sway is SMAC, or social, mobility, analytics and cloud.
  
  “Because what has happened in the last five years happened in the previous 50 years and what happened in the previous 50 years happened in the previous 200 years.”
  
  Kapoor added that technology is becoming that frugal, helping to achieve this transformation.
  
  “Permanent transformational changes that are happening are basis frugal technologies (even in banking) in terms of diversity which is important,” he said. Machine learning, the unified payment interface (UPI), the government’s Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) app will all work toward creating frugality in payments that will help India make this leap, similar to that in mobile telephony.
  
  “India built the best mobile system in the world. It works most of the time and this SMAC really needs to emerge and the sigma of that is India’s quantum leap in digital transformation,” he said. He said YES Bank along with   and another tech partner announced the first fully digitised vendor financing platform in January. Mobility, analytics and the cloud are making for a powerful combination, he said.
  
  Mix of Competition and Collaboration He said the key is a mixture of competition and collaboration or “coopetition”.
  
  “You collaborate with masters and build efficiency on scales in mid-offices and create efficiencies in the back offices. To me, in my bank, it’s abbreviated as ART: Alliances, Relationships, driven Technology partnerships.” YES Bank is also working with Microsoft Ventures, he said, while pointing out that older players need to embrace new technology.
  
  “It’s not a question of reinventing the wheel but incremental programmes in your own entities in the stalwarts in your systems,” said. “But the stalwarts in our system are in a state of self-denial and two banks tried to stop that happening in the case of UPI and QR by saying it was interoperable.”
  
  He pointed to the manner in which long-standing entities like IBM and GE Capital were changing strategies by learning from the new powerhouses.
  
  “These old institutions have deep pockets. They need to follow the FANG strategy: Facebook, Amazon, Netf lix and Google,” he said. “What they’ve done is without brick and mortar, and have created something using the frugal model like the good old Indian tiger. The youngsters in the US have proved that they can build like this and Indians need to learn from it.” 
