KOCHI:   is all set to send a set of recommendations to schools across the state, including the use of breathalysers to evaluate the sobriety of drivers before they begin their duty. This recommendation was mooted after the surprise police check that revealed that 36   across the state were driving under the influence of alcohol. 

 "Some schools operate a large fleet of buses, so it might be difficult for them to keep an eye on every single driver. Using breathalysers to check them would be an effective way to avoid such incidents," said president of   Management Association   Ernakulam deputy commissioner Yathish Chandra felt that breathalysers would prove to be an effective method to evaluate sobriety. "Schools have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their students. They should at least monitor their drivers as they collect a good sum as fee," he said.
 
 Khan said the association cannot mandate or force a school to check their drivers using breathalyser, but it will recommend the same to all managements at an executive meeting soon. "At the meeting we will discuss this issue and hear recommendations," he added.
 
 Another recommendation is that schools have to set up a vigilance committee with members the faculty, management, senior students and their parents. This committee can identify similar issues and act decisively. "This committee intends to ease the process of raising concerns," said Khan.
 
 Chandra said: "We have issued notices to the schools as a warning for now. If any of the guidelines for school drivers- including them driving drunk-are violated again, the school will be held responsible and strict action will be taken against them."
 
 As many as 36 school bus drivers were arrested for drunk, rash and negligent driving during a check on Friday that began at 6am in four districts , Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Idukki and Kottayam. Among those who were arrested was one Rajesh of Vypeen, the driver of a vehicle of a Kochi-based CBSE school, who had about 40% alcohol in his blood.
 
  The Kerala CBSE School managements' Association had instructed all schools concerned to immediately suspend the drivers.
 
