BENGALURU: The Income Tax department has claimed to have unearthed one of the largest black money scams post-demonetisation after it raided a city-based cooperative society and found it to be allegedly running a chit fund and dubious transactions operation worth Rs 200 crore with the active involvement of its CEO.
 
  The taxman, at the end of search operations at five branches of the credit co-operative society here yesterday, reported the alleged irregularities to the RBI, the  , the CBI and state government authorities for further action.
  
  The co-operative society headquartered in Malleshwaram, as per a report prepared by the I-T department and accessed by PTI, had a "claimed" total membership of about 30,000 and deposits mobilised by it stood at about Rs 200 crore, including those before November 8 last year when the note ban was declared by the government.
  
  "Further, during search proceedings, it was noticed that substantial cash deposits and loan re-payments were made after   on November 8, 2016. The department is verifying such deposits. Preliminary investigations indicate that a substantial part of the deposits are from undisclosed sources," it said.
  
  Officials identified the organisation as V Credit Cooperative Society founded here in 1990.
  
  I-T officials said it was one of the largest instances of black money generation by cooperative societies or banks having been unearthed in the wake of demonetisation.
  
  The report added that while the society was taking tax benefits by virtue of being registered under the State Registrations Act, it was carrying out normal "banking operations" in alleged violation of laws.
  
  "It was noticed that whoever approached the organisation for making the deposits, was first made a member of the society for a nominal admission fee. Subsequently, members could make time deposits, purchase cash certificate, operate the savings account, among others. This organisation does not comply with statutory regulations and does not take PAN from the account holders, and it does not deduct any TDS on the interest payment to the account holders.
  
  "Further, it had also started locker facility for the members last year. During the verification, it was noticed that this organisation, in tie-up with a nationalised bank, enabled the members to carry out electronic fund transfers and issued bearer cheques," it said.
  
  The report said the I-T department suspected that all this was being done by the society "to camouflage the real owners of these (suspect) deposits."
