NEW DELHI: New   ( ) has completed the assessment of structural safety of heritage buildings in  . The exercise was undertaken following two roof collapse incidents last month. The council had formed 15 teams, each comprising five members, to carry out inspections across the iconic market.

 According to the safety audit, 1,239 commercial units were inspected by the NDMC teams, of which 356 were found to be in good shape, 111 premises found locked or sealed while 772 units had other issues.
 
 The inspection was carried out to check the structural stability and load on the terraces of the buildings. Senior NDMC officials claimed that the 1,239 units—mostly shops and restaurants—were checked on various parameters like seepage, cracks, damages on wall or ceiling and unauthorised construction.
 
 “We took stock of how many diesel generators, solar panels, mobile towers and heavy flower pots were kept on the roofs and found five units with damaged roofs,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
 The council is planning to take stringent action against the owners who have installed diesel gen-sets and kept other heavy materials on the terrace without prior permission from the authority concerned. “We are evaluating the load on the roofs and if required, we will remove everything from the terrace to ensure safety. Even dining activity may be curbed,” the official added.
 
 The teams assigned to carry out inspections found that 136 units had excess water storage, 85 had cracks in walls, 49 units had unauthorised constructions and 82 units had the problem of seepage.
 
 “We need to set a permissible limit for water storage in conformity with building bylaws, but no other relaxation will be given to the owners,” the official maintained.
 
 On February 2, a portion of a building in C-block of Connaught Place collapsed. Days later, on February 11, the roof of a single-storey building in L-block caved in. There are around 1,200 shops and 250 restaurants in Connaught Place, of which around 60 restaurants are operating on the top floor of their buildings.
 
 NDMC is planning to frame special regulations for the heritage precincts in CP. Currently, owners have to seek permission from the heritage committee for any kind of renovation or alteration in those buildings though such requests are rarely granted, officials said.
 
 “A meeting was held with the LG and it was decided that the heritage conservation committee (HCC) should frame special guidelines for these buildings. A committee of technical experts drawn from DDA, Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) and municipal bodies will be constituted for this purpose,” the senior official said.
 
 Meanwhile, NDMC has received structural safety certificates from 450 owners. The rest of 450 requested for some more time.
 
 
