AHMEDABAD: A gang of thieves broke into a jewellery shop in Vejalpur and decamped with gold and silver ornaments along with cash, in total worth Rs 49.83 lakh. To cover their tracks, the thieves also stole the   and the DVR from the shop. The skill shown in making a hole in a single-brick thick wall and cutting open four safes with gas blowtorch has led investigators to assume that the gang is not local, but from outside the city.

 According to investigators,  , 38, a resident of Ramtirth Society, Jivraj Park, owns   near his residence in Jivraj Park Society. Shah’s complaint to the police mentions he had started off for Shankheshwar along with his family members on Sunday morning, when he received a call from Jentibhai, a contractor working at a renovation site behind his shop. The contractor informed him that someone had cut a rectangular hole in a wall of his shop.
 
 “Shah rushed back at 10.30 am to his shop and found that thieves had not only broken into his shop, but had cut all four locks on the safe inside,” said an investigator.
 
 “Shah found the thieves had stolen 1.5 kg of gold ornaments worth Rs 45 lakh, 7 kg of silver ornaments and bars worth Rs 2.75 lakh and Rs 2 lakh cash. The thieves had also stolen the CCTV cameras installed inside the shop along with its digital video recorder (DVR) to conceal their identities,” the investigator added.
 
 Investigators said that apart from Shah, for the past six months one   had also been working at the shop. The renovation work behind his shop had been going on for past one month. What surprised the investigators most is the modus operandi.
 
 “The thieves cut a small 1.5 feet x 2 feet hole in a single-brick wall. It means the person who entered the shop first, would be very thin or young in order to wriggle in,” said an investigator.
 
 “We have found LPG and oxygen cylinders from inside the shop which were left behind by the gang. The gas was used to power a blowtorch and cut the safe,” the investigator added.
 
 “The operation was well-planned. Equipment was brought to the spot and the precise location on the wall for easiest access to the safe was chosen,” the investigator said.
 
 City police officials said that in the recent past, thefts using such modus operandi have not been found, and thus they suspect involvement of a gang from outside the city.
 
 “Questioning is on to ascertain the identity of workers at the construction site, and nearby shop owners are also being asked about any knowledge of a group or a couple of persons carrying an LPG cylinder,” said an official. 
 
 Thieves were skilled in mixing gas: Cops 
 
 senior investigators said that while high skill is not needed to operate a cutter, it requires a bit of practice to mix the gas and generate the flame. “In Gujarat and elsewhere, the ATM thieves are most often seen to use gas cutters,” said an official. “Criminals use acetylene or LPG along with oxygen to generate up to 3,000 degree celsius temperature to cut through metal. Crime branch has been called in for the investigation,” the official said.
 
 
