When her debut film Jamna Pyari was released, what Mollywood got talking about other than the unusual name of the film was the alluring, affable lead actress of the movie,  . Her straight-from-the-heart chatter, especially the Thrissur slang won her several fans.

 The banker-turned-actress, however has continued the same Thrissur slang in her upcoming film,  , starring  . Her lines ‘Enikkum ishta. Iniyentha Vende,’ as reply to a proposal by Tovino’s character, is getting trolled on the social media, for sticking with the Thrissur slang in her movies. Some even renamed her ‘Gyayathri!’ However, the actress brushes it off with a hearty laugh. 
 
 “Oh yes, I saw many trolls and my friends and family too diligently forwarded several to me. I think they are quite amusing,” says Gayathri. Does she get annoyed by the unending criticism? “I used to feel bad in the beginning wondering what’s wrong in speaking in the accent of my native place, Thrissur. But, then my mom told me, ‘It just means you have an identity, play it cool.’ I have learnt to take it all in my stride now. I don’t have to try to be someone else or take the comments seriously,” says the actress. But Gayathri says that she is ready to change the way she speaks if it is required for a film.
  
 On her role in Oru Mexican Aparatha, Gayathri says, “I play Anu, someone who is interested in extra-curricular activities and she is almost like me. She isn’t one of those paavam types and is bold enough.” The actress says she had a gala time shooting for the movie at Maharajas College in Kochi. “We enjoyed a campus-like experience for all those 30 days. We would reach the set around 7 am and would be working till 6.30 pm. Though we were mostly shooting during holidays, students used to stop by to interact. Interestingly, not just me but Tovino, the film’s director Tom Emmatty, its cinematographer Prakash, were also from Thrissur.”
  
 The actress says that she also had her share of fun during the shoot. “Tovino is generally a very lively, down to earth person. His makeup man Yadu and Tovino would do something or the other to fool me. One day, we were shooting the love song Ivalaro. I saw Tovino getting angry with Yadu and slapping him hard on his face, and wondered what happened between them. As both of them are pranksters, I took the incident with a pinch of salt. Later, Yadu came to me and said ‘Tovino slapped me! Can you believe it?’ I just replied, ‘Oh is it? And slapped him on the other cheek! (laughs). The two didn’t foresee that their little prank would backfire like that. While Tovino’s was a fake slap, mine was quite a blow, I’m afraid,” Gayathri says.
 
 The actress has also completed shooting for Sidhartha Siva’s directorial  , starring  . However, she was not spared the pranks there either. Gayathri says that Nivin gave her a ‘tough time’ while shooting. “In combination scenes with him, when the camera will be focussing on my close up, Nivin would make faces, and I would start laughing.”
 
 Gayathri has almost finished the shoot for her debut Tamil film, a fantasy love story, with G V Prakash, titled 4G. The actress says what she loved the best about the film is that she gets to dress up, “a lot!” She says, “For most of my Malayalam movies, I hardly had any make-up. But in  , I had to apply make-up even for a sad scene. Also, I love dressing up and in the movie, I have a variety of costumes ranging from sari to skirts.”
 
 She plays a bubbly girl Nisha who has just landed a job, in the film. According to her, G V Prakash is quite reserved and takes time to be friends. “But once we got chatting, he was fun. While talking, Malayalam words creeps into my conversation often and from that he got enough fodder to tease me.”
 So, is she keen to work in other industries? “Well, not yet. I have offers from Telugu also, but I want to establish myself as a good actress in Malayalam. It’s extremely tough to get accepted in this industry and I want to give it my best,” she signs off. 
 
