By 
 

 B K Jadhav, who kept the iconic   ticking for 38 years, retired yesterday.
 
 B K Jadhav has never given much thought to time for the last 38 years. But now that he has retired, the  , who has kept the   ticking all these years, hopes to reflect, at leisure, on the nature of time. Jadhav, who retired yesterday, joined   as a ‘khalasi’ in its Signals and Telecommunications division in 1978. Since then, after serving as an apprentice to another   named Vasant Chaniwale, Jadhav, a diminutive man who wears a functional analogue Timex watch, was responsible for over 27 UNESCO heritage clocks at CST. His prime responsibility, though, was the tower clock.
 
 “You know, people still set their time by it since it’s visible from around the CST area. There are some Parsi gentlemen who call up my superiors if it loses or gains time.”
 
 Each day for the last three decades, Jadhav’s daily routine involved taking a creaky, wood-panelled elevator to the third floor of the 129-year-old building, ascending a wrought-iron spiral staircase and manoeuvring himself into a dank, dark chamber that houses the clock’s movement. “We replaced a few levers, but otherwise it’s still the way it was when it came from London,” says Jadhav of the gravity-driven clock that operates via a system of pulleys and weights, and needs to be wound up once every five days. The clock’s key is almost as big as a sickle, and the pulleys are supported by 170 kg weights.
 
 Apart from checking on its functioning every day, Jadhav would also clean and oil its innards. “It takes about three hours to clean and oil it. Plus, I’d also clean its dial and hands.” The dial, which measures 9 feet in diameter, is made up of 36 pieces of acrylic, which has replaced the glass it was originally made up of. “I liked the maintaining bit a lot. I’d do it once every couple of months, and just ahead of Republic Day and Independence Day.”
 
 With regular maintenance and TLC, the tower clock has ticked along without any hiccups, but about ten years ago, one of its levers broke, and that meant it was out of commission for a whole day. “There’s just one man in Mumbai who is well-versed with the way heritage clocks function and can fabricate parts for them. If something big goes wrong, repairs, too, take time.”
 
 His bosses have always been particular about the tower clock, says Jadhav, who has often had to come back to work late at night to attend to minor niggles. “It’s like a regular clock, just big. In summers, it gains time, in winters, it falls behind; not like the new modern clocks at the railway stations that are GPS-based.”
 
 The Central Railways have already appointed two other staffers to take Jadhav’s place, says Narendra Patil, chief public relations officer. “They’ve been training with him for some time, and things should go smoothly.” Jadhav plans to use the time he will have on his hands by taking up an activity related to clocks or watches. “But I’ve just had a bypass surgery, and my family says that it’s time for me to rest now. But I’d still like to come all the way from home, and take a look at the tower clock. I think I’ll miss it the most among all of the CST’s clocks.”
 
