NEW DELHI: At the Rakabganj gurdwara complex near Parliament, angular marble walls merge and rise in a zigzag manner. These are symbolic of the stuffy lanes in which were slaughtered thousands of Sikhs in November, 1984. 

 Called the  , it’s a memorial that has the names and addresses of around 3,000 victims of the anti-Sikh riots. But not all names are of Sikhs; there’s one wall that’s dedicated to three people—Prakash Chand from Palam Colony, Hari Singh from Jahangirpuri, and Aysha Khatoon from Kanpur—who had “sacrificed their lives to save innocent Sikhs”. 
 
  led by SAD (Badal) would soon throw this memorial open, which also has images of the violence-hit areas and quotes from inquiry commission reports. The timing is important: DSGMC and Punjab elections are just around the corner. 
 
 While the widows of the victims would inaugurate the memorial, it’s likely that Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal and deputy CM Sukhbir Badal would be present. DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK said BJP functionaries would also be present, and leaders of Left parties and Samajwadi Party have also been invited.   leaders, however, have not been invited.
 
 DSGMC has officially maintained that it doesn’t want the memorial to be politicised. “This space will not be open to political speeches. This is a place where the names will tell the story,” said GK. 
 
 But the inauguration plan clearly shows that there’s ample scope for the SAD-BJP combine to use it to target Congress. In fact, when the construction work on the memorial had begun on November 1, 2014, DSGMC had claimed that the memorial would be used for prayers, not politics. Yet the ground-breaking ceremony itself wasn’t free of political undertones. The Punjab CM had blamed the Congress government of the time for failing to stop the “genocide”. He had also urged the Modi government to ensure a time-bound inquiry into the killings.
 
 When TOI visited the site, final touches were still being given to the memorial. The walls culminate near a pool with fountains. At night, 1,000-foot laser beams would rise from the pool, symbolising the heavenward journey of the departed souls. 
 
 Sculptures symbolising humanity, humility and tolerance have been erected around the walls. A well-like structure with space to lay wreaths has been dedicated to the unidentified victims of the carnage. 
 
 The whole thing has been built at a cost of Rs 2.45 crore.
 
 
