NEW DELHI: President   spoke out on Sunday against using “the ordinance route for any monetary matter” as he cautioned against “the instrument of ordinances which is an extraordinary power vested with the executive”.

 His comments will be seen in the context of decisions like the ordinance he gave assent to on December 29, 2016, criminalising retention of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes beyond December 31, 2016. This was intended to complete the process of demonetisation declared by Prime Minister   on November 8 last year.
 
 As MPs bid adieu to him at a ceremony in Central Hall of Parliament, Mukherjee said, “I’m firm in the opinion that the ordinance route should be used only in compelling circumstances and there should be no recourse to ordinances on monetary matters. If a matter is deemed urgent, the panel should be made aware of the situation mandated to present its report in stipulated time.”
 
 Mukherjee was all praise for the PM and said he had “greatly benefited” from the advice and cooperation extended by Modi at “every step”. “With passion and energy, he (Modi) is driving transformational changes in the country. I will carry with me fond memories of our association and his warm, courteous behaviour,” he said. Talking about his 37 years as LS and RS member, he said, “My years in Parliament were enriched by P V Narasimha Rao’s wisdom, Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s oration, Manmohan Singh’s calming presence, L K Advani’s mature advice and Sonia Gandhi’s support for social legislations.”
 
 Mentioning that India was aland of “130 crore people speaking 122 languages under one Constitution, one flag and one administrative system”, Mukherjee stressed on pluralism and diversity “as the greatest strength” of the country. He asked members to avoid frequent disruptions in Parliament, saying it hurt the opposition more.
 
 “During my years in Parliament, I learnt that it stands for debate, discussion and dissent. I also learnt that disruptions hurt the opposition more,” he said. The function was attended by VP Hamid Ansari, PM Modi, former PMs Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda, LS Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Congress VP Rahul Gandhi, Union ministers and MPs.
 
 Mukherjee, who demits office on Tuesday, said he was “mentored” by Indira Gandhi whose “steely determination, clarity of thought and decisive action made her a towering personality”
 
