Lucknow: Restoration of the Chhota Imambara using cement, that an inspection report of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and IIT-K termed as ‘irreversible intervention’, seems to have damaged the 180-year-old monument.

 Taken up initially by the Husainabad & Allied Trust (HAT) on a PIL to restore heritage monuments in 2013 by heritage activist Mohammad Haider, the restoration drew flak from the high court for using material harmful to the original structure, against National Policy for Conservation of the Ancient Monuments Archaeological Sites and Remains (AMASR), 2014. 
 
 Subsequently, after its orders of September 16 and September 23, 2015, the work was put on hold and ASI asked to take it up with help from INTACH. The inspection carried out had then been submitted to the Lucknow bench of the high court, in November 2015, observing that the adverse impact on the breatheability of the lime-based structure will be visible sooner than expected.
 
 While work has remained stalled, as was mentioned in the report, the interior walls and ceiling corners, on both the left and right ends of the first hall of the Imambara, are now crumbling to pieces. “The use of cement on the structure, as was pointed out by experts, has affected the breatheability of the original lime mortar foundation. This is causing water seepage and the plaster to come off soon after the supposed restoration. The originality of the monument should have been maintained instead of ruthlessly killing its foundation. ASI needs to take responsibility too,” said Haider. 
 
 Officials at ASI said the matter had been brought to the office’s notice and will be reviewed in-depth. “ASI still sticks to its stand that the work has caused damage to the monument and will continue to do so because cement is an adverse agent used for monument’s strengthening,” said N K Pathak, head, Lucknow circle of ASI. “We will conduct a review of the noticeable alterations and, if need be, also submit a supplementary affidavit in court for it,” he added. 
 
 Originally, the structure is made up of a mixture of bael fruit, Urad pulse, jaggery, gum, sahares (adhesive), fenugreek, lime and powdered lakhuri bricks. HAT had scraped off the original layers, put a mixture of cement and sand in 2:1 ratio, applied a layer of white cement followed by water primer and then bucket matte for final layering. 
 
 
