JODHPUR: MP   on Saturday said that the government and the system have given us many tools for redressal of grievances and get heard and asked if we know about them and use them.

 Gandhi, who was in Jodhpur to address youths on  , talked at length about the positive changes which have been taking place in silent, non-violent and harnessing these tools like   and  .
 
 “We have so many tools and ways to bring positive changes in the country,” said Gandhi advocating public participation in governance to bridge void between public and government.
 
 He said that only 0.3% people have been using RTI as a tool for redressal of their woes, of which people of Delhi, NCR and Maharashtra claimed 62% and rest cover the remaining states.
 
 He called upon the youth to make the best use of the information technology driven social platforms instead of using them for frivolous purposes and bring change in the country for better life.
 
 Describing the role of a politician, he said, without mentioning his political loyalties, that a politician does not only mean elections but development of the nation by constantly working for bringing change.
 
 “I am an MP of one constituency but I own the responsibility of entire nation and for that I am touring entire nation meeting people who are change agents and talking to the youth motivating them for change,” he said.
 
 He also called upon the audience, largely youth, to contact him on social platforms like   and Twitter and guide him to raise the issues of national importance in parliament and thus play an active role in nation building.
 
 He also motivated youth to take up social entrepreneurship by giving some examples wherein they could earn money as well as bring change in the society in national interest. 
 
 Ending his address on a philosophical note that “It is better to reach the destination with all than to run alone,” Gandhi shared some examples of the start ups rolled out by sporadic youths, which have made the life many neglected classes hassle free and smooth.
 
