PUNE: In the network of roads that connects the city’s peth areas, several streets have been converted into one-ways to ease the flow of traffic. Yet, two-wheelers, autorickshaws and tempos are often seen ignoring sign boards and brazenly travelling in the wrong direction. 

 Local residents as well as commuters are frustrated with the situation. They point out that wrong-side driving, in particular, leads to chaotic situations and puts pedestrians at a greater risk.
 
 Bajirao Road and   are two major thoroughfares in the area that have been turned into one-ways. Nevertheless, on a daily basis, motorists are seen driving on the wrong side of both roads.
 
 Sopan Harpale, a fruit vendor on Bajirao Road, said that wrong-side drive is rampant even during peak traffic hours. 
 
 “Vehicle riders hardly follow rules here and prefer to drive on the wrong side just to avoid covering long distances. There is no discipline and hardly anyone follows the rules. The traffic police is forced to intervene at least three to four times a week,” Harpale said.
 
 The road connecting   to   sees a number of motorists travel on the wrong side. Since it is among the vital thoroughfares between   and Laxmi Road, the route is perennially congested. Despite prominent signboards, motorists travel in the wrong direction. On Tuesday, even private cars were seen travelling in the wrong direction and blocking vehicles moving in the opposite direction.
 
 Such scenes recur on nearly all roads between Bajirao Road and  . Despite the traffic police’s efforts to maintain the flow of traffic, motorists are often seen defying rules.
 
 Padmakar Watve, a retired teacher and resident of Sadashiv Peth, said numerous commercial establishments are located in the old city areas and goods carriers visiting the area often block the roads by parking their vehicles on road side. 
 
 Watve suggested that goods vehicles be banned from entering the stretch during the day or should be allowed entry only through the afternoon hours to ensure that traffic does not slow down.
 
 
