Strawberry should be an all-year round fruit! We love adding it to salads,  , chocolate and foods, too. Did you know that in earlier times women used to bathe in fresh strawberry juice for clear skin, and they were also used in a variety of teas! A member of the rose family, the heart- shaped fruit is now available in plenty, from the cold hill station of Mahabaleshwar. Time you indulged the season’s ripest red produce...

 
 There’s so much that can be done with strawberries; it really is a versatile fruit. I have tried strawberry mason jars with layers of French vanilla bean cream and sponge and mini cheesecakes,” says chocolatier Dimple Sanghvi. And who says you can’t go Indian with it? “Give the fruit an ethnic twist by making strawberry tarts with 
 instead of a cream filling. In your jar desserts, use a cheesecake base and add strawberry 
 to it. Or just make 
 with the fruit,” says dessert maker Rajni Singh. 
 
 
 
  
  One can make ice cream by blending milk, cream, sugar,  , and colouring. But this time around, try a low-fat sorbet using strawberries...
 
 
 
 Lemon — 1, whole, seeded and chopped
 Sugar — ½ cups
 Strawberries — 2 cups
 Juice of lemons — 1
 
 Blend the lemon and sugar and keep aside. Purée the strawberries and these to the mixture. Blend again and freeze.
 
 
  
  
 There are different ways to enjoy them in your cake. Either add strawberries to the cake batter, use it in the frosting or just add a bunch of chopped strawberries on the top of the cake.
 
 
  
  Add strawberry juice or fresh fruit in your milk-oil-egg-vanilla waffle mix and set. Or, cook strawberries with milk and sugar and add this as a waffle or pancake topping. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Jazz up your bowl of plain porridge or oats with the chopped fruit. 
 
 
 
 Says clinical   and sports nutritionist Zainab Gulamhusein, “A huge problem that we face at workplaces today is acute dehydration due to air-conditioning. This is where strawberries come in. Try a hydrating strawberry infused water where you just chop up strawberries and infuse them overnight in water. Add mint leaves, chia seeds and some cinnamon sticks too, which serve as an   and cleanser as they are packed with fibre. The glycemic index is also very low for the fruit so diabetics can eat it, but in moderation,” she says.
 
 
  
  “Guests are sure to love this. You just prick the strawberries with a toothpick. As strawberries have their own sweetness, dip them into a dark chocolate sauce. Decorate with sprinkles or roasted almonds,” says chocolatier Akshaya Purwani.
 
  
  
 Hiloni Goradia shares a recipe…
 
 Strawberries + 1 whole strawberry (for garnish) — 35 g
 Green chilli — ¼, chopped
 Mint leaves — 4 mint + sprig (for garnish)
 Sugar syrup — 25 ml
 Ice cubes — 2 to 3
 Soda — as required
 
 Remove the stem of the strawberries and slice in four. In a shaker add the strawberries, cut chilli, mint leaves and sugar syrup. Muddle all the above mentioned ingredients. Pour the mixed syrup and ice cubes into a glass with soda. Garnish with a whole strawberry. line and mint sprig.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The strawberry is called ‘The Queen of Fruits’ in Asian countries because it’s packed with health benefits. “These juicy heart-shaped delights have much more to offer beyond sweetness and flavour. It’s anti-cancer, anti ageing, promotes weight loss as it is low-calorie and it is low in glycemic index so can be eaten by diabetics too,” says dietician Sheela Tanna. One can enjoy this super fruit’s benefits in different ways. She shows you how…
 
  
  
  Mix strawberries with low-fat curd and brown sugar. Blend and serve. 
 
 Mix chopped strawberries with hung curd and refrigerate. Low fat and low in sugar, this is an ideal source of protein, calcium and vitamin B12.
 
  
  
 Make strawberry juice and set this in an ice tray. Insert ice cream sticks when semi-set and give kids strawberry lollies as an evening snack or after-dinner dessert.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 The fruit works wonders on the skin. Says skin expert Ruchi Srivastava, “Strawberries have ellagic acid, an antioxidant, which prevents collagen destruction (which causes wrinkles). It also has cleansing and exfoliating properties and removes excess oil for the skin’s surface, getting rid of acne. When added to a face scrub, it effectively peels dead away skin. You also can also use it in a mask as it helps repair skin.” 
 
 
 
 
 
