DHARWAD: The third edition of   got off to a colourful start at the RN Shetty stadium in   with Friday’s opening ceremony being a flamboyant feast of north Karnataka’s rich culture. The proceedings combined the formal ceremonial opening of the weeklong sporting event including welcoming speeches, hoisting of the flag and the parade of athletes, as well as presentation of artistic spectacle to showcase north Karnataka’s culture and history.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah inaugurated the games by flying the pigeons and coloured balloons in the presence of his ministerial colleagues, elected representatives and officials. Sports lovers, most of them students from Dharwad and nearby places thronged the stadium.
 
 The folk artistes stole the show at the opening ceremony with their scintillating performance. Beating of drums and jaggalige dance by the artistes to the tune of folk songs made the event glamorous. Impressed by the cultural bonanza, CM Siddaramaiah and his paraphernalia decided to sit and watch the dance and dollu kunita for about 45 minutes after the opening ceremony was officially over.
 
 As the sun started setting, the skies were lit with colourful fireworks added glamour to the opening day’s proceedings.
 
 MORE FUNDS FOR SPORTS: CM
 
 Speaking after inaugurating the games, chief minister Siddaramaiah promised enhancement in allocation of funds for sports in the next budget. He also announced sports bonanza to Dharwad by awarding various facilities which will help to build a sports ecosystem.
 
 Responding to the plea by district minister Vinay Kulkarni, MLC Basavaraj Horatti and MLA Arvind Bellad to set up a sports complex in   said this demand will be fulfilled shortly. Special funds will be released to construct a model traditional wrestling house (Garadi Mane) which is a popular sport in this part of the region.
 
 Sports arena has expanded and offers several opportunities to the youngsters to shape their career. Hence, the government has asked the   to hold this event once in two years and grants will be reserved for the same in the next budget, he added. The government has decided to provide advanced training to sportspersons and international coaches will be hired for the purpose. All these efforts are being made to see that the Karnataka lads fare well in the Commonwealth, Asian Games and Olympics and win accolades to the state and the country, he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah said the government has instituted a cash prize of Rs 5 crore to the Karnataka sports person who wins gold medal in Olympics, Rs 3 crore to silver medal winners and Rs 2 crore to bronze medal winners. Apart from this, the winners will also be given a Class 1 officer’s post in the government department. Even cash rewards will be given to the winners at the Commonwealth and Asian games, he added.
 
 Earlier, sports minister   said that 1,000 sports persons in Karnataka will be selected for higher training programme and the government is roping in the corporate sector to adopt these talents and take care of their needs.
 
 MLC Basavaraj Horatti asked the chief minister to double the grants for sports sector and nurture young talents.
 
 District minister Vinay Kulkarni, food and civil supplies minister UT Khader, women and child welfare minister Umashri and others were present.
 
 
