LUCKNOW: With   on the prowl, LMC has gone into a challan   and   in the city. However, despite a threefold rise in challans-the corporation issued 740   over the last month compared to just 200 in the same period last year--the efforts are far from translating into an ideal situation. When TOI did a reality check in some localities, it in fact found the situation to be worse than earlier.Choked drains, overflowing sludge, and muddy puddles on roads were the order of the day , indicating the need for more proactive enforcement from LMC's sanitary staff. The role of residents too was far from satisfactory as many were found dumping garbage in the open without any regard for sanitation.

 (With inputs from Aar ooshy Srivastava, Vishal Singh, Ayush Chaudhary, Priya Dixit and Himanshi Shukla)
 
 LALBAGH
 
 Even though LMC's head office is located in the area, maximum number of challans were issued here. In fact, LMC office's own parking area was found to have a garbage heaps. Bhopal House lanes suffered from choked drains and garbage accumulation on roads. Vinita Rai, a restaurateur said, “During rain, there is excessive waterlogging on roads because drains are rarely cleaned. The sludge mixes with rainwater and is left on the roads after the water recedes. While there is low awareness among shopkeepers, even LMC officials turn a blind eye towards littering in Lalbagh
 
 RIVER BANK COLONY
 
 Garbage heaps are a regular sight on both sides of the colony's main road with street vendors dumping waste in the drains. The inner colony seems relatively cleaner but the approach road is heavily littered. Anuj Patel, a resident said, “An LMC worker comes only once a week to collect garbage, so the bins are always overflowing. There are always mosquitoes hovering around the garbage dump.“
 
 GOLE MARKET
 
 Considered a rather `posh' marketplace, Gole Market surprisingly does not witness regular cleaning of streets by LMC staff. As a result, garbage piles could be spotted every few metres in the area. While the drains were choked with polythene, even the boundary of the park above basement parking was covered with garbage. At several spots, stagnant water provided ideal conditions for mosquito breeding. Aditya Agarwal, a shopkeeper said, “While mosquitos are common after rains, these overflowing drains make matters worse by turning into mosquito colonies.“
 
 MAULVIGANJ
 
 IIt's difficult to stand out in the open in this locality due to the constant mosquito bites. Nearly every drain in the area was found to be brimming with garbage and food waste. Several residents were seen dumping garbage on roads and into drains, offering ample opportunities for mosquitoes to breed. Zahida, a resident, said, people are forced to dump garbage in drains because no sanitary worker comes to collect garbage from their houses. Ravi, another resident, said, “LMC neither creates awareness against dengue nor does it control mosquito breeding.Sweepers visit only when called.“
 
 RAJ BHAWAN COLONY
 
 Though most roads of the colony seemed clean and drains desilted, a large garbage heap was seen near the entrance to the colony.Ganesh Silvaraj, who came to live in the colony just two months ago, said the garbage has been cleaned only twice since. Being a `VIP area', the anti-larvae spraying has been conducted but regular garbage cleaning remains a problem area.
 
