Chandigarh: With the Chandigarh municipal corporation receiving a whopping Rs 14 crore after auctioning 26 paid   lots, including multilevel parking lot in Sector 17, the civic body is planning to convert around 60 non-paid parking lots of city, falling under its jurisdiction, into paid parking lots to boost its revenue generation.

 Significantly, a majority of these non-paid parking lots are situated in the commercial areas of the city.
 
 The parking wing of the civic body has sent the letter to the MC’s engineering department, asking them to conduct a proper survey of all such non-paid parking lots. The parking wing through the survey wants to know the exact area length, accommodation of vehicles, their exact entry and exit points before bringing out the proposal in a proper shape.
 
 Sources said the enforcement wing of the MC had identified such lots and then referred the matter to the parking wing.
 
 Joint municipal commissioner Manoj Khatri said, “We have started to explore the proposal on how to convert non-paid parking lots into paid parking lots, intending to provide better services to commuters. Since parking management is a crucial subject, we are exploring all the angles. After doing the entire exercise, the matter will be brought before the MC house for consideration.”
 
 MC sources revealed that out of 60 non-paid parking lots, there are around 20 to 25 lots which have less space. Therefore, there is a need to study the feasibility of converting small lots, they added. “The exact scene will be clear once the survey is done,” said an official.
 
 A couple of months back, Mumbai-based Arya Toll Infra Ltd has bagged the contract for Rs 14.8 crore against the reserve price of Rs 4 crore to manage 26 paid parking lots of the city. The agency has already taken over the parking lots of the city and will convert them into smart parking system in the coming three months.
 
 Box:
 
 A majority of the identified non-paid parking lots are situated in the commercial areas of the city, where flow of vehicles is immense throughout the day. Therefore, the civic body is hoping to generate a good amount of revenue by converting these non-paid parking lots into paid parking lots. It is a crucial move considering that MC has been struggling to enhance its revenue. But will the general house give the approval to the move is a major question.
 
 
