KOCHI: The north-east of the country has emerged as the new nursery of Indian football for quite some time now. No wonder,   primarily targeted players from that region in the draft for the fourth edition of Indian Super League held in Mumbai on Sunday.

 Blasters picked 13 players from the draft to complete their domestic signing and eight were from the north-east of the country. Blasters' picks indicate a strong influence of their assistant coach and grassroots programme technical director Thangboi Singto, who has coached Shillong Lajong in the I-League till last season.
 
 The   co-owned club had a tough start to their draft proceedings on Sunday morning. Having already retained  ,   and U-21 player Prasanth K, Blasters were allowed to enter the fray only from the third round onwards. And they sprang into action by offering an instant trade option with ATK for Eugeneson Lyngdoh which was denied by the Kolkata club. Though Blasters went on to sign right-back   for Rs 63 lakh their disappointment in not being able to get an Indian defensive midfielder was evident.
 
 But then came a spree of signings of players from the north-east. They surprised many by grabbing India U-23 captain Lalruatthara. The 22-year old defender had a major role in   lifting the I-league last season. Lalruatthara's signing was just a sign of things to come as the Blasters latched on to most of the north-east players whose name came up during the draft. The other signings from the region included Milan Singh, Jackichand Singh, Siam Hangal, Lalthakima, Loken Meitei and  . Shadap was Singto's most dependent right-back during his days at  . Interestingly, apart from Arata Izumi and goalkeeper Subhashish Roy Chowdhury, all the other players who Blasters signed from Sunday's draft were below the age of 25.
 
 Blasters strategy at the draft left at some of their fans disappointed as they felt the team management should have focussed on more players from Kerala at the draft. However former India international CV Pappachan defended Blasters' choices. "There is no point in saying that Blasters management failed to sign Kerala players. Apart from Anas Edathodika, two of the best Kerala players (Rino Anto and CK VIneeth) are in Blasters squad itself. You should also see the quality of players signed by Blasters when compared to the Kerala players who were in the draft. Quality players are seen more in the north-east now and it's natural the management looked to tap in more talent from there," said Pappachan. 
 
 
