THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the government pursuing a view opposing that of state police chief   regarding the transfer of a junior superintendent in the police headquarters, the transfer order is likely to be cancelled. 

 At present, the order moving confidential section head V N Kumari Beena from the post is in force, but the official has refused to move out. The order that initiated the internal transfers of four officials at the police headquarters was issued by Senkumar on Tuesday. Kumari Beena, who was posted at her current seat by former state police chief  , had approached chief secretary Nalini Netto, who is at loggerheads with Senkumar against her transfer.
 
 Senkumar who met the chief minister later appraised him about the circumstances under which the official was transferred. He is learnt to have conveyed to the CM that the official had been showing high-handedness in many of the petitions including hushing up of a petition by Koduvally MLA Karat Razack. The Right to Information Act Kerala federation had also made a submission to the government and T P Senkumar to remove the official from the post. Federation president D B Binu said that in the most recent instance, an application under   regarding internal vigilance had been returned saying that it could not be disclosed.
 
 But the government took a view that the transfer need not be effected, though it did not issue any order cancelling Senkumar's order. Subsequently, CM's political secretary M V Jayarajan is also learnt to have conveyed to Senkumar not to take a course that would lead to confrontation with government officials.
 
 Moreover, the transferred official had refused to go by the order, and the new official posted as replacement could not take charge. 
 
 Meanwhile, it is also learnt that the government has forwarded a dissent note against recommending the name of Senkumar to the post of member in the  . The government has no powers to veto his name that has been selected by a panel headed by chief justice of the high court, except to give a note of dissent to the governor along with the panel of names. The appointment is done by the President.
 
