CHENNAI: They had given the order for a 500kg cake to be made by a dozen chefs from a five-star hotel. It was to be a fitting end – a big blowout to a week-long carnival. But it turned into 
  with the police. 

 The protesters opposite Vivekananda House who had earned the people’s goodwill through their spirit of volunteerism and peaceful protest had been focused almost exclusively on the jallikattu ban. United by a love of native Tamil culture and indigenous cattle breeds, they had 
  . 
 
 They gave an opportunity for many to speak on the mic and heard out a mix of opinions. Their camping opposite   had inspired many other groups – students and others – to take position at various landmarks on the beach. Each statue and lane leading to the service lane on the beach and other landmarks were turned into a shelter for one group. A students group on the service lane next to V House gave a platform to film stars. 
 
 The theme of Tamil culture drew traditional dancers, and mime and folk artists who staged performances at the beach. Silambattam was a big draw for visitors. 
 
 There were fringe groups too. From CPI(ML) through Kovan’s Makkal Adhikaram to the May 17 movement that advocates Tamil Eelam, the groups used the   to propagate their ideas. A few groups had a direct political message for visitors. Their catchy and often vulgar songs and slogans denounced Prime Minister  , chief minister O Panneerselvam and AIADMK general secretary  .
 
 Until Sunday night, the V House group maintained its tight coordination and volunteers and stuck to the basic message of opposing the ban on jallikattu. On Monday at 6am, these students were given a copy of the state-level jallikattu ordinance. “After handing over the ordinance, the police gave us just 10 minutes to disperse while the students asked for at least half a day during which they would read and understand the ordinance with the help of legal experts. After that we wanted to celebrate and leave,” says Jaleel, a 32-year-old businessman who was among the first group of protesters that arrived at 9am last Tuesday.
 
 Jaleel had gone home on Saturday night and was coming with film actor   on Monday morning. But, the police had started evicting the protesters by the time they reached, says Jaleel. Raghava Lawrence and he were unable to enter for two hours since the police had cordoned off the area.
 
 When they did finally enter, 
  . Half the protesters, mostly students, had scattered into the city. The other half was bunched at the seashore. “When I was addressing them and telling them about the ordinance, a group made many other demands like ‘Amend PCA. We need permanent legislation’,” said Raghava Lawrence at a press meet later in the day.
 
 Those who were still left in Marina were largely fringe group elements who were upping the ante. They had always been lurking outside the core but now they were well and truly inside. By Sunday night, they had spread their influence well into the V House site. Their ideas bordered on the extreme, beyond Tamil pride and well into Tamil nationalism and separatism.
 
