THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Soliciting opposition support to push forward development projects, chief minister   said on Wednesday that the government would never yield to pressure from anti-development groups. He was replying to the motion of thanks to the governor's address in the assembly. 

 "This government doesn't represent any particular section in the society. It's a government for and of all. Though we belong to different political parties, it's the public mandate that brought us all to this assembly. Hence, we all should stand together for programmes and projects aimed at the overall development of the state. At no point will the government succumb to pressure by certain organisations that always raise protest against development projects," said Vijayan.
 
 He rejected opposition leader  's allegation that the state was facing severe administrative stagnation due to the cold war between the government and IAS officer. He added that all the apprehensions expressed by IAS officers were successfully addressed.
 
 "The opposition might have meant that the government was not working at the speed expected by them," he said, adding that a set of people were always engaged in filing petitions against others. 
 
 "Right now, vigilance probes every complaint it receives. Any lapse in doing so will attract the criticism of the vigilance court. The recent high court order on vigilance is a welcome one. It upheld the role of the cabinet in a democratic set up. I hope the HC would issue a set of guidelines for the functioning of the vigilance," said Vijayan.
 
 The chief minister said the government was able to make major strides in coir/cashew and textile sectors. "I hope the cooperative sector also makes impressive progress and create many job opportunities," he said. Vijayan said the government would introduce agriculture practices that will help improve profitability and attract educated youth towards agriculture.
 
 There was no going back on the decision to establish the   (KAS) and a separate secretariat cadre, he said.
 
 The government had earlier decided that the first phase of the   should run from Aluva to the Maharaja's College ground. "Now there is a demand that it should terminate at Palarivattom. We are considering the same," he said.
 
