Nagpur: Jagdish Shravankar, 49-year-old employee of WCL Ltd at  , was shot at by unidentified persons who came riding a bike at Kandri bus stop in Kanhan early Wednesday morning. The assailants, who had their faces covered, fired two rounds at   from behind using a country made pistol. One of bullets pierced Shravankar’s lower back. The assailants fled from the scene.

 Onlookers told Kanhan police that the shots were fired by the pillion rider who had his face fully covered with a scarf. His first shot missed but the second one hit Shravankar, a manager with WCL. The bike rider, who was wearing a helmet, tried to speed away but lost control and the duo fell to the ground.
 
 Cops said nobody came to catch them as they were armed and they could get up and rode away. Cops have registered an offence of attempt to murder against unknown attackers. Police have recovered CCTV footages from the spot. The suspects were riding a   but their identity could not be established as their faces were covered. Cops also recovered one empty bullet case from the spot.
 
 Local Crime Branch (LCB) PI   told  , “Our team has traced the suspects and is collecting evidence against them.” 
 
 Shravankar’s wife Kalpana told TOI that he left home at 5.30 am on his Bullet motorcycle. “He has to travel 11kms to reach his workplace. I received a call on my son Akshay’s number around 6.30am. An unknown person informed me that my husband was shot,” she said. She immediately rushed to the spot with Akshay (25), a pharmacy student.
 
 She added that they rushed Shravankar to nearby hospitals but none was ready to treat him. After six hours, they reached Mayo hospital where he was operated upon successfully and was recuperating under experts’ observation. She said she did not known of his having enmity with anyone.
 
 Akshay said his father was on second shift till Tuesday and from Wednesday he was supposed to attend morning shift. Akshay and relative felt the shooters had known his movements and may have been trailing him for a few days. The incident occurred just 3km from his workplace, he added.
 
