NEW DELHI: The spurt in number of taxis operating under aggregators such as   and   is not merely because of good business, but due to huge incentives that these companies offer to the drivers. But the drive to earn more incentive is also taking a toll on drivers’ health, a study has found.

 The multi-city survey conducted by Management Development Institute ( ) has found more than 50% of drivers’ daily income comes from the incentives that the taxi aggregators give them. Driver incentives are those paid to the drivers over and above the passenger fare in case they log certain number of rides in a day.
 
 According to the survey, nearly 40% of such drivers earn less than Rs 1,000 per day as incentives, another 40% earn between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000 and the rest earn more than Rs 3,000 incentive per day.
 
 The report said 50-60% of drivers’ earnings coming from incentive is not a sustainable model and it needs to be addressed. The survey also said over one-third of drivers admitted that they believe the incentive would end in 2-3 years. It has pointed out that loans and lifestyle inflation may threaten to play the spoilsport for drivers, who are relying on incentives.
 
 The MDI report released on Wednesday also pointed out how drivers are spending more time behind wheels to earn the incentive to meet their expenses. It found that drivers work for more than 12 hours for getting the incentive. “Companies should not over-incentivise drivers.
 
 Sleep deprived and fatigued drivers jeopardise safety of passenger and other people on the road. They also tend to behave badly and harass customers,” the study said.
 
 According to the report, 46% of the drivers interviewed in this survey across Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata admitted that their health condition has deteriorated since they started working with the app-based taxi aggregators. Nearly threefourth of the drivers also said they are spending less time with their family. The survey found 55% passengers prefer hiring a taxi from taxi-aggregators for quick availability and better service.
 
 
 
