PUNE: The   ( ) is facing more than   in various local courts, filed by privately-operated   homes for non-payment of grants.

 WCD commissionerate officials, however, say that these homes are not abiding by the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act to operate such institutions and have demanded that the state government should take stringent action against these institutions.
 
 The department has 1,003 child protection care homes in the state, of which 963 are run by private institutions and 40 are directly operated by the government.
 
 As per the JJ Act, child care protection homes should have minimum boarding and lodging facilities and provide basic needs in terms of clothing, food, healthcare, nutrition, education, vocational training and recreation, and should have a decent space for reception and toilet facilities.
 
 At present, the government pays Rs 900 per month per child only if all these facilities are provided and are found to be satisfactory after checks, the officials said.
 
 They added that the institutions that have filed cases against the WCD were told to provide details of their facilities. As they did not, the government was unable to issue grants.
 
 Deputy commissioner WCD   told TOI that over the last two months, officials have had barely any time to look into regular activities as most of the time is spent on running between courts. “We are fighting all the cases as these institutions are not providing necessary details demanded by us. Once we win the case, action will be taken against the institute and the children will be shifted,” Patil said.
 
 While there is no issue about the government-run institutions, for the private run institutions, the WCD has a strict procedure for disbursal of grants and unless they clear all the checks the grants are not sanctioned.
 
 Incidentally, the WCD wanted to cancel the homes based on a gradation system carried out on instructions from the high court. However, even two years after the gradation, the government has not issued any resolution on this, senior WCD officials said.
 
 The gradation was carried out after the high court pulled up the state government on the upkeep of the homes. The exercise was carried out after several cases of children falling ill, running away or other incidents were reported. The report found that of the 963 homes in the state, nearly 214 fell in the “non-performing category” and could be shut down. 
 
 However, with no instructions from the government or the court, the WCD has had to forcefully continue keeping these homes inspite of poor performance, stated another official. 
 
 The report also listed 473 homes in the ‘A’ list and 214 homes in the ‘B’ category, indicating a need for improvement.
 
