CHENNAI/PUNE: There's a strong buzz that Chennai Open, the only ATP event of India, will move out of the city in 2018. It was initiated by a Government Regulation (GR) letter by the Maharashtra state government, which said that Pune has bid for the event.

 The Tamil Nadu state government had signed a three-year agreement earlier this year with IMG, the organizers of the event, that it will stay in the city for at least three years. There's a speculation that the TN government is facing a financial crunch following the recent political turmoil in the state and that has forced the   (TNTA) to pull out of the agreement.
 
 The Tamil Nadu government officials denied of any cash crunch. "Absolutely, there is no such issue. As a Lead Platinum Sponsor for Chennai Open, the state government sanctions Rs 2 crore every year and it will continue. If the organizers have any other issues, they can approach the government and things can be examined. But they have not approached the government so far," said a top government official.
 
 The TNTA, too, said that they haven't pulled out of the event. "In fact, we are in the process of making a list of the players we would like to have for the event. The list will be submitted to IMG sometime next month," a top TNTA source said.
 
 The $506,000 ATP World Tour event, held during the first week of January, has been hosted Chennai for the last 21 years and the players treat this event as a tune-up for the Australian Open. The humidity of Chennai and the nature of the courts are somewhat similar to that of Australia, which prompts players of the stature of   and   to appear for the event. But the   (MSLTA) sources indicated that IMG began scouting for a new host city for the event about three months ago. While they seemed to have got in touch with Singapore and Bangkok among other cities, they had also initiated talks with the MSLTA, which has been successfully hosting the $50,000 KPIT ATP Challenger for the past three years.
 
 Not only did the MSLTA facility at the   meet the ATP standards but the event also had favourable reviews from the players as well as the Tour officials.
 
 However, with the IMG keen to sign a deal with a five-year lock-in period, the MSLTA wanted the backing of the state government, which has been indirectly supporting the ATP Challenger already.
 
 The state and central governments' support have become crucial for various high-profile events in India. 
 
