Yesterday morning, a 2,000-strong crowd came out on Hill Road, Bandra, to protest against the   of a religious   at D’Monte Street. The action was taken pertaining to a decision by the   against unauthorised religious structures on roads. This did not go down well with residents. Savio Gonsalves, caretaker of the cross who lives exactly opposite it, informs, “We held a protest in front of the H-West   office, with people from all parts of Mumbai. It was a silent protest with banners, prayers and hymns; we then proceeded to St Peter’s Church on Hill Road. The representatives of the community later met with the BMC on this.” 
  The cross means a lot to people. “A rosary is held here every day during the month of May, as well as on every first Friday of the month, and it’s very special to us. Our prayers have been heard here over the years.” A statement issued by the   claimed that the cross was on a privately-owned land. “It is on a private property, and not public land as the authorities are claiming it to be. When they demolished the cross on April 29 at 11.30 am, it was extremely shocking. People are deeply hurt as it is revered by people of all faiths. The Sabha and the Archdiocese in Mumbai are going to take this matter forward legally.”
 
 
  
  
 Says David Cardoz, architect and former member of the  , “The essence of the court order was that action could be taken on illegal religious structures on public land. Now, this cross is not illegal and has existed for several years before the Datum Line and it is within a private property. Since 2011, we have protested against the authorities who have deeming it to be illegal on public land.”
  He further adds, “The latest notice was one more in that series of notices. Subsequent to the first notice, we were called for an official meeting at the BMC headquarters on April 3 this year, to present our case. We presented our papers and the BMC then told us in the presence of the municipal corporators of H-West (six of them) that they would study and get back to us within 48 hours. When nothing happened, we submitted another letter on the 10th. On April 26, they served a second notice and on 29th they just came and demolished the cross with a bulldozer, inspite of us showing the documents that it is on private land. In the last notice, the Assistant Municipal Commissioner quoted the High Court order saying that they had until November 17 this year to sort out the matter. So what was the haste? Is it fair and right? The owner of the property has also come forward yesterday and protested as to how this action could be taken when the cross was in his property. This is actually trespass and illegal on the part of the corporation.” 
 
 
  
  
 Says  , assistant municipal commissioner, H (West) ward, “As per directions of PIL 104 of 2010, 32 temples and 6 crosses, which are in ‘B’ category are to be removed in the area. After the court order, letters were sent to these structures and they were requested to remove them. Also, a meeting was arranged with the representatives of the religious structures and the people’s representatives. During this, the court order was explained and again a request was made to remove the unauthorised structures. Six religious structures were removed. Subsequently, action was started on a few balance structures — and one temple and one cross was removed. We have followed the due process of law. And the list of structures to be removed is already published.” A senior official adds, “A new circular has been issued from the Municipal Commissioner, saying that a one-month time is given if someone wants to approach the court in case there is any issue or query.”
 
 
 
