KOLHAPUR: The   (KMC) is going to spend over Rs 10 crore to treat   with the help of  . 

 The technology called phytorid has been developed by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute ( ). The project is included in the Rs 72 crore-plan approved by the Union government under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). 
 
 The suggestion to use phytorid technology for in-situ treatment of sewage entering Panchganga river was first made by NEERI two years ago. The Bombay high court had appointed NEERI to study the pollution issues and suggest measures to the civic body to address the concerns. 
 
 R K Patil, chief of KMC's environment cell, said, “The system will be developed along eight minor nullahs in the city. We have plans to divert the waste water from these nullahs to the sewage treatment plants (STPs). However, the cost is too high. Use of plants to remove the harmful pollutants from the waste water is an effective process as well as a low-cost method.” 
 
 In the phytorid system, beds of various plants are prepared at regular intervals in the nullah. The plants absorb large amounts of nitrates, phosphates and other pollutants for their growth.
 
 The bed comprises three layers. First, crushed bricks and stones of different sizes are placed. Identified plant species are placed in the second and third layer as the first one is meant for the passage of sewage. 
 
 A study by NEERI had concluded that the technology reduces biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) facilitating removal of suspended solids by 60%. Also, same amount of nitrates and phosphates which are dissolved in the waste water are removed to large extent.
 
 “The beds will be developed at the inner parts of the nullahs and at the low-lying areas. Over eight million litres of waste water flows through these nullahs every day and the method will help us reduce the intensity of pollution to almost 50%. The smallers nullahs in the Dudhali and Jayanthi nullah basins have been selected for the phytorid technology,” said Patil.
 
 The NEERI suggested to the KMC that it should not adopt the technology along large nullahs as many times, the pressure caused by the waste water wipes out the plant beds. Same experiment was conducted along Jayanthi nullah, but failed due to this reasons.
 
 The technology has been successfully used to clean the nullahs in cities from Delhi to Pune. The KMC is also planning to develop footpath gardens along these nullahs.
 
