NEW DELHI: Kings XI Punjab thrashed Delhi Daredevils in a lopsided encounter to record a big 10-wicket win in Mohali in an Indian Premier League match on Sunday. After opting to field first, Sandeep Sharma ran through DD line-up, finishing with a career-best 4/20 as the visitors were shot down for a paltry 67 in 17.1 overs. KXIP openers, led by Martin Guptill's maiden   fifty, chased down the target in 7.5 overs to cap off an all-round show.

 Here we surmise the contest in five points:
 
 
 
 Not even in their worst nightmares would Delhi Daredevils have thought of being reduced to a sorry state within the Powerplay overs. KXIP captain Glenn Maxwell put them in field first and his new ball bowler Sandeep did what he does best – get a wicket with the new ball. It was a slow wicket and DD batsmen failed to adapt to its pace. The signs were ominous when Sandeep delivered the first over. Sam Billing returned to the playing XI, faced two deliveries and offered a thin outside edge to be out caught behind for a duck. His opening partner Sanju Samson fared a tad better, scoring a four off Sandeep's next but the slow pace did him in. Pitched on the middle, he was a bit early into his shot as the ball took a thick leading edge to balloon to mid-off where Mohit Sharma was stationed for the catch. 7/2 in in three overs never makes for a pleasant reading. Sandeep wasn't done yet. DD though tried their best to get out of that nervy phase courtesy a four and a six from Shreyas Iyer and stand-in skipper Karun Nair respectively. The pace again came to haunt the batsmen. In a similar manner to Samson, Iyer played a bit early and the ball went to the left of Sandeep who was just about in his follow through. Showing his athletic abilities, he dived to his left and plucked out a one-handed diving catch to reduce the visitors to 22/3. After the end of six overs, the scorecard read 25/3.
 
 
 
 The pacers gave way to the spinners and Axar Patel in tandem with Maxwell made further dents in DD's hopes of a recovery. With the first ball off his first over of the match, Axar sneaked the ball past the bat of stand-in skipper Karun Nair and the timbers were shattered. Like his captain, Rishabh Pant too played the wrong line and was pinged in front of the stumps. The bowler, Maxwell, appealed and the umpire duly obliged. Delhi's total? 30/5. The duo bowled unchanged – delivering eight overs between them in which they picked up three wickets between them and allowed 34 runs - Axar finished with 2/22 and Maxwell 1/12. 
 
 
 
 KXIP opted to hold back of Varun Aaron and when he was unleashed, a partnership of 26 runs – the highest of DD's innings – was immediately broken. Likewise his predecessors – Sandeep, Axar and Maxwell – Aaron too struck in his first over. An inside edge crashing on the stumps and Corey Anderson was bowled for 18 - the highest individual total managed by a DD batsman. Sandeep returned for his final over and yet again, struck to pick up his fourth wicket in Kagiso Rabada, caught by Shaun Marsh who incidentally had dropped him in the previous over denying Aaron a double-wicket over. But Aaron would have his second victim soon, in his second over removing Mohammad Shami for 2. And Mohit Sharma's delight was evident at registering his name in the wicket column after accepting a return catch from Shahbaz Nadeem. Delhi were shot down for 67 – matching Kolkata Knight Riders' record for the third lowest total in IPL history. 
 
 
 
 While DD were horrible in the Powerplay overs, KXIP were a delight. Majority of the runs came from the bat of big-hitting Martin Guptill as he entertained the home crowd in the hunt of a low total. The problem DD batsmen faced suddenly vanished. Some clean strikes from Guptill meant the target was chased down in 7.5 overs. The Kiwi batsman was in destructive mood hammering unbeaten 50 off 27 deliveries. He hit three huge sixes and four fours to hand DD a 10-wicket thrashing in Mohali. 
 
 
 
 In the absence of skipper Zaheer, Delhi who began the season on a promising note, slumped to one of their worst defeats in IPL. They were bowled out for the third lowest total in IPL history and then the beating they received from Guptill will force them to look inwards and do some soul searching. They have churned out underwhelming performances in the past few seasons and this season too seems to be heading down that path. This was their sixth defeat of the season. On the other hand, KXIP are a happy bunch delivering an all-round performance and with their fourth win of the season, they are back in the hunt for a top-four finish. 
 
