Ahmedabad: Hinting at laxity in implementing prohibition laws, Gujarat high court on Thursday said that the state government is responsible for the   deaths in Surat last year.

 During hearing of two PILs seeking inquiry into Surat hooch   that claimed 26 lives, the government lawyer was explaining how arrests were made in the case and how the cops probed availability of liquor. This led the bench headed by Chief Justice R S Reddy to comment, “You (the state government) are responsible for the hooch tragedy.” The court said so because of availability of liquor despite prohibition policy in Gujarat. The court said that the very fact that government has to seize liquor is bad, and it is worse that such incidents take place in the state.
 
 The court also inquired whether there is a special wing in state police force to deal with the subject of liquor. As the prohibition laws have been made more stringent there should be a plan for implementation. When the state government informed the court about the arrests of liquor suppliers, the court questioned why it cannot strike to the very source of liquor supply.
 
 On the issue of compensation, the government pleader Manisha Shah later submitted that those who died in a hooch tragedy are considered law breakers and they cannot be compensated for breaking the law. To this, petitioners’ advocate N K Majmudar cited example of compensation to victims of fire in a cinema hall and argued that the victims in any hooch tragedy belong to the lower class.
 
 After hearing the arguments, the HC kept its verdict reserved till next week.
 
 Two PILs filed in October last year complained that despite prohibition policy in Gujarat, the incidents of hooch deaths keep on occurring and liquor is being manufactured, sold and consumed in large quantity. Without negligence and inaction on part of police authorities, who appear hand-in-glove with liquor manufacturers, such instances of hooch deaths could not have happened so repeatedly.
 
 The PILs have demanded an inquiry by a high-level committee, including an HC judge, in deaths in Surat hooch tragedy. Action has been sought against erring cops as well as panchayat officials, who seem well in knowledge of liquor production and trade. Compensation has also been sought for victims’ families.
 
 Last month, six police constables implicated in this case on allegations of nexus with bootleggers were given a clean chit by the state government.
 
 
