MUMBAI: “We look after the poor more than the government does. Despite this, all government workers, from corporators to sweepers, earn more than we do,“ says Sawantbai, an   from Bainganwadi, Dharavi.

 This   has caused anganwadi workers across   to stay on strike since September 11. Their demands include an   (anganwadi workers are paid Rs 5,000 regardless of seniority, while helpers are paid Rs 2,500), retirement benefits comprising a pension scheme, recognition as government workers and promotion of senior workers to supervisors. “Also, we are made to do extra work like carrying out public surveys, solving interpersonal problems in our community , supervising quality of drinking water and food, as well as going on frequent inspection tours etc,“ says Sawantbai. “The long hours and working conditions are taking a toll on our health.“
 
 For most workers, however, the key issue is money . Chandanshivebai, who has been working in an anganwadi in Matunga Labour Camp for 27 years, complains her salary has not kept up with inflation. “The re have been times when I haven't been able to pay rent,“ she says. “Forget festival bonuses and pensions, we often don't even get our pay for more than six months at a time.“
 
 The Shiv Sena has pledged to help these workers get their due. But the absence of state welfare has hurt. 73 lakh anganwadi children have been affected due to lack of nutritious food. A woman who sends three of her kids to Bainganwadi says, “I have been unable to go to work for two weeks as there is no one home to look after my children.This not only affects my income, there is no proper food to give my children. We feel for the plight of anganwadi teachers, but our children are suffering.“ Another parent Rehana says, “My child used to be malnourished. With the anganwadis, his health is much better. But now in the absence of nutrition, I am worried about him.“
 
 Commissioner of the Integrated Child Development Scheme, Kamlakar Fund, says, “Our government has tried to increase their salaries and bonuses as much as it can. There has been almost a 30% increase in the amount of funds allotted to anganwadis by the government, which will go towards paying salaries and supplying food.They should accept this now and end the strike keeping in mind that they provide necessary services.“ He said during the strike “accredited social health workers from the health department have been called in to open anganwadis and start giving food to children. Self-help groups and women committees have been formed to look after pregnant women and children and give them nutritional and medical attention.“
 
 A PIL filed by Dr Gunratan Sadavarte seeks to end the strike. And even if the court doesn't force the workers to go back to work, economic hardship might. But for now, they are sticking to their guns.
 
