BHUBANESWAR: The   on Sunday saw students from   participate in the 17th edition of the   at   here. The students were accompanied by their teachers in the early morning stroll. 

 The 15 students from Pune were taken on an architectural journey by guides. "We have a Matrubhumi Parichay Sibir, a special programme in our school through which we acquaint students with the cultural and historical past of India. The Odisha capital is rich in temple architecture and the students got to explore it in great detail during the two-hour walk," said Aditya Shinde, head of the Matrubhumi project of the school.
 
 Class X students of the school are taken outside the state for visits to historically rich places so that their understanding of history is based on real experience, he said. Rajashree Maratha, a teacher of the school, stressed on the importance of discovering one's own motherland by visiting places is real education. "This time we chose Odisha to discover its art, culture and architecture so that the students can connect to it in their curriculum also. It can be an experience that will last them throughout their life," said Maratha.
 
 Among those who have joined earlier editions of the walk were students from leading management institutes and architecture colleges, students of art history of the Benaras Hindu University, art critics, scholars, historians and poets. Each episode has been witnessing new groups of participants. "The walk has helped popularize the city and its heritage," said a spokesperson of the Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA). 
 
 The students walked along the route lined by the Mukteswar, Parasurameswar, Sampoorna Jaleswar, Kotitirtheswar, Bindu Sagar, Old Dharmasala, Lingaraj, Chitrakarini, Sari Deula and Mohini Temples. 
 
 "We never knew that Bhubaneswar has as many as 361 monuments which have been attracting visitors in hordes every Sunday," said student and participant, Anushka Wagmare.
 
 The city's other Sunday draw, the street festival Patha Utsav attracted a huge crowd this Sunday. The flavour in the air was that of the Baisakhi festival with a cultural troupe performing bhangra dance. Sambalpuri numbers belted out by noted singer Jitendriya Haripal were crowd pullers as well. 
 
 A group of youngsters staged stunts on the medians of Janpath. Youngsters also took part in a zumba dance. 
 
 
