THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Indian Meteorological department (IMD) has said that the southwest monsoon will hit Kerala on May 30. Normally, the monsoon season begins here on June 1. Though Palakkad and Kozhikode recorded a high temperature of 36 degrees Celsius, IMD has predicted thundershowers and rain over the next five days till May 20.

 “Now, conditions are favourable over the   and based on IMD’s forecast, the onset of southwest monsoon in Kerala is likely on May 30, give or take four days,” said IMD director S Sudevan. Earlier, based on favourable weather conditions over south  , he had indicated an early monsoon in Kerala. 
 
 Earlier, it was reported that monsoon was likely to arrive on May 25.
 
 The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala signals the arrival of monsoon over the Indian subcontinent and represents the beginning of rainy season in the region. “Normally, monsoon hits our coast on June 1. Based on the indigenously developed statistical model, we have found that the date will be May 30 this time. The model has an error of plus or minus four days,” said IMD officials.
 
 The model predicts monsoon based on six factors namely   over northwest India, pre-monsoon rainfall peak over south peninsula, outgoing long wave radiation (energy radiating from earth as infrared radiation to space) over south China Sea, lower   wind over southeast Indian ocean, upper tropospheric zonal wind over the east equatorial Indian Ocean, and outgoing long wave radiation over the southwest Pacific region.
 
 IMD added that its monsoon forecast during the past 12 years from 2005 to 2016 were correct, barring 2015. Forecasts made over the past five years proved that in 2012 the actual onset was on June 5 while it was forecast on June 1, with a model error of four days. 
 
 In 2013, the actual onset was slotted on June 1 as against the normal forecast of June 3. 
 
 In 2014, it began on June 6 while the forecasted date was June 5, while in 2015, the actual onset was June 5 when it was forecast on May 30. In 2016, the actual onset was on June 8 when it was forecasted on June 7.
 
