Chennai: In an attempt to recapture a market that it was the leader of,  , through its exclusive licensee HMD Global is on the first phase of its relaunch as a startup. 

 The company is betting big on the brand recall it had in its yesteryears and its partnership with  . Ajey Mehta, vice president,   talks to TOI about how the company is going to play catch up in the smartphone market, its obsession for feature phones and its future plans. Excerpts:
 
 From being a market leader, you are now a newbie. How do you plan to make your way up?
 
 We are a startup with no assets except our people, with our business built on partnerships, who believe in our vision. Our strategy is based on 3 pillars. Quality and design, experience and ‘Pure’ Android. Nokia phones are known for their durability and ergonomic design. We continue to build on that for our smartphone range. The experience on the Nokia phone will be unparallel. And this will be powered with pure   which means your phone will be clutter free with updates from Google being pushed directly to you. Other phones which are on Android typically have a skin built over which could delay updates. We are not in a position where we can create our own island today. We need to play by rules and show clear differentiation to the consumer.
 
 When the world is moving towards smartphones, why are you still manufacturing feature phones?
 
 55% of the cell phone market is still feature phones. 11-12 million feature phones are sold every month so there is huge opportunity. Our legendary phone 3310 model in its refreshed form makes for the ideal second phone. It comes with all the benefits of the traditional feature phone with adaptations to suit today’s millennial. For example, it has a camera which its earlier version didn’t have. Itand also has a micro-sim slot and a charging slot whichthat supports the smartphone charger. We will continue to launch feature phones across price bands.
 
 When will users get to see more Nokia phones?
 
 We have launched 3 smartphones and 2 feature phones in the first leg. In a few months, we will launch another set of smart and feature phones. In the nextone year, we want to have phones across price points to be in alignment with our mission to have something for everybody. We are looking at various options to rope in die hard fans of Nokia such as exchanging of old phones, credit facilities etc. We have 400 distributors and 80,000 retail outlets through which we will take our phones to the consumer. We will also sell the phones online. We should launch our current set of phones by the end of Q2 this year.
 
 
