AMRITSAR: The granthi who had served “karah parsad“ (pudding) at a Batala gurdwara, which led to the death of a toddler and had 24 people taking ill, told cops on Friday that he had laced it with bhang (marijuana).

 Batala deputy superintendent of police (DSP)   said  , the granthi (reader of scriptures) of Gurdwara Teg Bahadur, Guru Nanak Nagar, Batala, had confessed to mixing “bhang“ in the “parsad“. DSP Jugraj said the granthi feared that he would be stripped of his post by the gurdwara management committee.
 
 Panic had pervaded the industrial town of Batala after many children and adults who had partaken the “parsad“ complained of uneasiness and giddiness on March 15. Some of them had also reported symptoms of uneasiness and irritation in the throat after consuming the “parsad“. The death of one-and-a-half-year-old boy   on Thursday caused a further scare.
 
 Sources said that a section of gurdwara committee tion of gurdwara committee wanted to remove Paramjit due to his `bhang addiction' and that the `bhang-high' granthi had added the intoxicant to the “parsad“.
 
 DSP Jugraj informed that a case of murder, attempt to murder and causing hurt by means of poisoning has been registered against the granthi.
 
 However, the condition of the over two dozen people who had taken ill, is reported to be stable now.
 
 SHO of Batala police station, police lines,  , said police are yet to ascertain the quantity of bhang mixed in the “parsad“. “We will get to know this only on getting the report of the “parsad“ sample sent for testing,“ he said.
 
 The DSP said that a case of murder, attempt to murder and causing hurt by means of poisoning has been registered against the granthi.
 
 However, the condition of the over two dozen people who had taken ill, is reported to be stable now.
 
 SHO of Batala police station, police lines, Yadwinder Singh, said police are yet to ascertain the quantity of bhang mixed in the “parsad“. “We will get to know this only on getting the report of the “parsad“ sample sent for testing,“ he said.
 
