NEW DELHI: Hoping to turn   into a “model for   segregation”, the   has come up with new waste management   for the sub-city. 

 These rules, which follow Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and the Delhi high court order of August 9, 2017 on   and disposal of waste, will turn Dwarka into “the biggest geographical area” in the capital with a waste segregation system, the corporation claimed. 
 
 However, the resident welfare associations (RWAs) and citizens’ groups warned that all plans would fail unless the corporation adopted a “bottom-up approach” of sensitising people along with subsidies and incentives.
 
 Spread over 23 sectors, Dwarka contains almost 350 gated housing societies and 50 DDA pockets and generates around 80 tonnes of waste every day. “Segregation is an answer to the landfill problem. The rules mandate that all bulk generators producing more than 100kg waste a day will have to create their own composting units on the premises,” mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said. 
 
 For the time being, the corporation will use the 200-tonne unit at Okhla but plans to set up 20 smaller units in Dwarka. “We are also encouraging RWAs to build 1-tonne plants for which we will provide 50% subsidy,” Sehrawat said.
 
 Under the rules, bulk generators like group housing societies, DDA pockets and market associations — covering 75-80% of the waste generation — will have to segregate their waste into wet, dry and hazardous (paints, cleaning agents, solvents, insecticides etc) components. The 240kg bins have already been provided to the societies and dhalaos/receptacles are also being colour-coded.
 
 Segregation of the components will be the generator’s responsibility and violation will invite penalty. “The corporation will not collect unsegregated waste and will enforce the penalty in the second phase once capacity building is over,” said a corporation official. Wet waste will be collected on a daily basis, dry waste once in three days and domestic hazardous waste on a weekly basis. 
 
 Dwarka has got priority because it has a large number of housing societies falling under the category of bulk generators and the “overall process here would be relatively easier to handle”, added the official.
 
 “We welcome the concept but such one-sided farmans can’t be issued,” said Sudha Sinha , general secretary of Federation of CGHS DWARKA. “Housekeeping staff and residents haven’t been sensitised. In the meeting called by the corporation, only the consultant was present and focused on selling composter units, each of which costs Rs 5.5-6 lakh,” she added. “Societies sometimes don’t even get maintenance charges; making people pay for this would be an uphill task. We should get funds as we pay taxes. Space is also an issue.” 
 
 Rejimon CK, president of Dwarka Forum, said officials were wrongly focusing on selling composting machines as installing machines alone won’t solve the problem. “The step was not discussed properly with RWAs. We welcome the concept but people are not yet prepared. Municipal authorities are under obligation to collect waste, how can they shift that responsibility?” he said. 
 
 Officials claimed that behaviour change would take time but people would start complying once they see benefits of the new system.
 
 The mayor pointed out that laws clearly mentioned that bulk generators were not the responsibility of corporations. “Apart from 50% subsidy, we are also planning to provide property tax rebate to incentivise the implementation.” She claimed that the results would be visible in the next two months. 
 
 
