Chandrapur: The alleged man-eater of South   range was finally captured on Monday in the forest of Halda. Shooter Nawab Shafat Ali Khan, hired by the forest department to capture the problem   (T27 cub-1), successfully darted the beast over a bait in the evening hours.

 The tigress had killed three cattle, a goat and two cows, near village Halda on Sunday. Shafat Ali Khan took the opportunity and tied the dead goat as bait in the forest. Khan and a forester took position on a machan built over the kill, in the afternoon.
 
 The problem tigress came to the kill at around 5.30pm. The beast, however, sensed people nearby and took off with the kill, breaking the tether wire. “I took a running shot at the fleeing tigress and darted it in the neck. The animal fell after going 200 meters into the jungle,” Khan told TOI.
 
 Khan claimed they had only a few minutes to identify the problem animal. “Forester Rundan Katkar and I successfully identified the tigress from its strip pattern. By the time identification was done, the tigress was fleeing with the kill. Still I managed to dart the feline from 25 meters away,” he said.
 
 Khan was assisted by veterinary doctor Kale, who was in a vehicle parked in the vicinity. The doctor gave revival medicine to the tigress after it was put into a cage. The animal was rushed to Ekara rest house deep in the jungle immediately. Sources said the beast is healthy and recovered from sedation normally.
 
 The problem tigress had terrorized over a dozen villages in South Brahmapuri range since more than two-and-a-half months. It had killed two persons and mauled five others, while killing dozens of the cattle in the area. Irked villagers had thrashed foresters and pelted stones in a protest to demand capture of the problem tigress, leading to the arrest of 49 villagers.
 
 After the incident, Brahmapuri MLA Vijay Wadettiwar had marched to the CCF office in Chandrapur and forced the forest department to issue shooting orders against the tigress. The shooting orders were, however, withdrawn following court directive in a PIL filed by environmental activists in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. The hunt for the problem tigress continued for 25 days. Over 100 forest officers and personnel and several dozens villagers were involved in the operations.
 
 
