NEW DELHI: The discovery of an “unidentified“ body outside a Metro station on Thursday has blown the lid off a grisly case of police brutality. The victim, a 24-year-old fruit-seller, was allegedly   inside the lock-up at Adarsh Nagar police station in northwest Delhi and his body dumped in a cover-up bid.

 Cops tried to pass it off as a suicide, then called it a failed escape bid. But a probe indicated otherwise. SHO Sanjay Kumar and five others, including constables Kuldeep, Surender and Indraj, have been booked for culpable homicide, wrongful confinement and destruction of evidence, and suspended. An assistant sub-inspector has also been called for questioning while DCP northwest   will also be probed.
 
 The police version is that Sompal, while being locked up in a room, had managed to climb to the fourth-floor terrace of the police station and “fallen“ to his death by accident.
 
 On December 28, two policemen detained Sompal outside   after they found him arguing with another vendor. Sompal was allegedly taken to the Adarsh Nagar police station for questioning during which he was allegedly thrashed by three constables. A few hours later, police sources said, Sompal's blood-soaked body was lying in a courtyard outside the police station.
 
 SHO Sanjay Kumar then allegedly ordered the constables to dump the body in a bush beside the Majlis Park metro station. The next day , a passerby noticed the body and informed the PCR about it. Sompal's body was taken to   and kept in the mortuary . An inquiry was also ordered to identify the man and police found the man Sompal had been arguing with when he was picked up.
 
 Officers said Sompal's knees were broken and he had bruises on his face and head, caused after being hit by a heavy object. Senior officers were informed after which a departmental inquiry was initiated against the SHO and other policemen. The body was sent for an autopsy and police, who began a search for Sompal's family members, found his father, Dayaluram, at Azadpur Mandi. That was little consolation for the worried family , though. Police tried to pass it off as a suicide, they claimed.
 
 An SDM inquiry has been initiated. “We have taken serious note of the incident and initiated a probe,“ said Dependra Pathak, joint commissioner of southwestern range and spokesperson of Delhi Police. “We have taken administrative action against the policemen found to be involved in dealing with the issue and have initiated legal action against them.“
 
 
