GUWAHATI:   Police have stepped up vigilance in select places as the state, fuelled by widespread Assamese subnationalism sentiments, stayed on edge for over 24 hours after an office of All Assam Students Union ( ) was ransacked in Dhemaji district on Monday .

 Nikhil Bharat Bangali Udbastu Samannay Samiti (NBBUSS), a Nagpur-based pro-Hindu Bengali group, was behind the attack. The group has been seeking release of illegal Bengali Hindu migrants from Bangladesh detained in detention camps in the state.
 
 On Wednesday , 28 groups representing Assam's indige nous people rallied behind Aasu in Dhemaji with a war cry against forces trying to foment trouble in Assamese society. Similar protests were carried out across the state.Anger was also directed at the state government for not nabbing NBBUSS president Subodh Biswas.
 
 Assam Police special DG (law & order) Kuladhar Saikia said, “Search is on for all the accused. So far, we have arrested 11 of them.“
 
 For police, the bigger concern is preventing communal flare-ups which the eightmonth-old BJP-led government, packed with former Aasu members including CM Sarbananda Sonowal, cannot afford to let happen.
 
 On Tuesday , Dhemaji district administration had called in the   as a precautionary measure.
 
 Governor Banawarilal Purohit have appealed to citizens to maintain peace. In a statement, he described the Silapathar incident as `an act of cowardice.' “We will not allow any force to disturb our ageold harmony and peaceful coexistence,“ said Sonowal.
 
 The attack on the office of Aasu, which had spearheaded the anti-illegal Bangladeshi migrants movement between 1979 and 1985, has brought all indigenous groups on a common platform and has put the   government on a sticky wicket.
 
 
 
 Militants triggered a hand grenade explosion near the busy Kasturi bridge area in Imphal on Wednesday evening, injuring at least six, including two women. The blast took place in front a pharmacy around 7pm, police said. The injured were rushed to nearby hospitals. The incident occur red three hours after polling for the second and final phase of the Manipur polls ended.
 
