AHMEDABAD: On Friday, three days ahead of the  , a two-member team of doctors from Delhi-based   (NCDC) and   on visited the bird flu-affected Hathijan area in the city and reviewed the measures taken by the state administration to curb the spread of the dreaded H5N1 virus. The team is expected to stay for the next two days and watch for any further manifestation of the virus in the affected area. 

 The team comprising Dr Mahesh Waghmare from NCDC and Dr A Mittal from Safdarjung Hospital, however, had to cut short their visit following a scuffle between members of the NGO, Asha Foundation, and officials of the animal husbandry department. 
 
 However, the two medical specialists will revisit the affected area again on Saturday with a third member, Dr Pravin G, of the NCDC. Dr Waghmare said that the team will give their final recommendations after completing their visit on Saturday but prima facie, it appeared that adequate measures to control the   outbreak had been taken. 
 
 “We visited the NGO site from where bird flu outbreak was reported,” Dr Waghmare said. “After inspecting the area, we found that adequate measures had been taken. We have instructed the local administration to take some more measures with immediate effect to get complete control over the situation,” Dr Waghmare said. 
 
 Local health authorities said that 52 people, who had been quarantined, will be kept in isolation and given prophylactic treatment for the next 10 days. 
 
 “We have not found any infected person so far,” said an NCDC officer. “The officers and NGO staff who have been quarantined have been done only according to the guidelines.”
 
 Earlier, on Friday, the NCDC team had to cut short its visit to Hathijan following a scuffle between Harmesh Bhatt of Asha Foundation and officials of the animal husbandry department. 
 
 Bhatt claimed that he was being obstructed from speaking to the officials.
 
 “Local people helped by officials from the animal husbandry department were allowed to make representations against the NGO demanding that it be shifted out of the area,” Bhatt said. 
 
