Gurgaon played host to some of the fittest and the most ripped bodybuilders from across India as the most finely sculpted physiques descended upon   this weekend. The reason was the 10th senior men's and women's bodybuilding and 5th men's and women's physique sports national championship, the premier event in the Indian bodybuilding fraternity. Organised by the Indian   (IBBF), the event saw record participation – 456 professional bodybuilders from across the country, including over 40 women.

  
  Participants lined up in the women's bodybuilding category (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  The participants competed in two major divisions – fitness physique and bodybuilding. Explaining the difference between the two, Chetan Pathare, general secretary,  , told us, "In fitness physique, the focus is on functional fitness and not a bulked up body, while in bodybuilding, the athlete tries to develop his or her muscles to their maximum potential." In bodybuilding, while the women participated in an open category, the male participants were divided into 10 weight categories. Sunit Jadhav, the winner in the 90kg category, was declared the overall winner and won the title of Mr India. Manipur's Thigbaijam Sarita was the winner in the women's category. In fitness physique, Sumit Banerjee and Sanjana won the men’s and women's titles, respectively. Apart from the winners, Mumbai-based veteran fitness athlete   was honoured by the organisers for being the oldest active participant in the field. The 51-year-old mother-of-two said, "There was a time when I wouldn't even wear a swimsuit on the beach, and now I’m competing with kids half my age on the stage. The competitiveness keeps me motivated year after year."
 
 
  
  Participants in the women's fitness physique category
 
 
 
  This was the first time that the biggest event in the country's bodybuilding calendar had come to Gurgaon, and fitness freaks in the Millennium City used the opportunity to meet some of the top fitness athletes in India. Rachit, a fitness freak from Sector 29, said, "I met so many of my idols here, particularly Nilesh Bombale, who I look up to. Un sab se tips li maine workout ke liye, because I might never get this chance again." The organisers promised to return to Gurgaon soon, with the aim of organising a world championship here. 
 
 
  
  Sumit Banerjee (in the centre), winner, men's fitness physique
 
 
 
  Premchand Degra, a former world champion bodybuilder and the current president of IBBF, said, "This is the first time we’ve brought this event to Gurgaon, and the city did not disappoint. We would request the Haryana Bodybuilding Association to develop local talent so that in 3-4 years, we can bid to host the world championship and have a home-grown winner."
 
 
  
  Nishrin Parikh was honoured for being the oldest active competitor at 51 (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  Premchand Degra (former Mr World), president, Indian Bodybuilding Federation (BCCL)
 
 
