RANCHI: Captain Steve Smith and allrounder   rescued Australia from a precarious 1404 with an unfinished fifth-wicket stand so far worth 159 runs, putting the visitors in the driver's seat at 2994 on the board at close on Day One of the third Test against India here on Thursday .

 On a docile JSCA international stadium pitch, hosting its maiden Test, Smith displayed flawless technique and temperament to notch his 19th Test hundred -his sixth against India -even as the his junior colleagues in the top order threw away their wickets through poor shots.
 
 Ominously for India, Smith is batting on a chanceless 117 along with the free-stroking Maxwell on 82 as Australia drove home the advantage of winning the toss.
 
 Australia's fears of being confronted with another tur ner proved to be unfounded as the dark brown pitch neither aided lateral movement nor appreciable turn or bounce, frustrating Indian bowlers. Mark Renshaw and David Warner were off to a flier with a flurry of boundaries as India's new-ball bowlers Ishant Sharma and Umesh Yadav failed to make the shiny red cherry swing conventionally on a fresh pitch.
 
 India skipper Virat Kohli pressed R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja into the attack in the seventh and 10th overs respectively, but even the world's two topranked bowlers failed to create an immediate impact on the Australian openers.
 
 It was the subdued Warner who brought up the 50 of the partnership in 9.3 overs by driving Jadeja to the cover boundary. The lefthander, however, was out next ball, mishitting a waist-high full-toss straight back to the bowler.Rehshaw made an eye-catching 44, laced with seven delectable boundaries, before hanging out his bat to Yadav's widish delivery outside his off-stump, guiding the ball into Kohli's safe hands at first slip. It was poor decision-making on Renshaw's part as the youngster had nicked Yadav's previous delivery too but the ball had not carried to Ajinkya Rahane at second slip.
 
 At the other end, Smith, who had been dismissed by a shooter from Yadav in the second innings of the Bengaluru Test, looked determined to make it count here.He trusted the bounce and played with a straight bat in the `V' to milk the spinners and pacers alike for runs.
 
 Australia, though, suffered another blow before lunch when Ashwin's perseverance finally paid off. The off-spinner pitched one in line with Shaun Marsh's leg stump and spun it sharply across the left-hander's bat.Marsh could not draw his bat away and the ball flew off his bat and pad to forward short-leg, where Cheteshwar Pujara dived to hold a fine catch.
 
 However, much to India's dismay, their appeal was turned down by umpire Ian Gould, prompting them to opt for a review. For a change, the Indians got it right, but they were left embarrassed on their next claim later in the day -an lbw shout against Maxwell -when replays showed Ishant had over-stepped.
 
 India succeeded in pulling back Australia's run-rate with some tight bowling and crisp fielding in the second session, but lost their skipper through an injury. Kohli fell on his shoulder while trying to stop a boundary and had to go off for treatment in the 40th over. Things started falling apart for the home team from this point. The Aussies did lose Peter Handscomb to a deadly Yadav yorker, but Smith and Maxwell combined to slowly but surely push India on to the back foot over the next 50 overs.
 
 Smith was compact and confident, but Maxwell, playing in place of the injured Mitchell Marsh, was a revelation. Playing in only his fourth Test match, Maxwell left his big-hitting reputation in the dressing room and played each ball on merit, using his long reach and pad to negate whatever turn Jadeja was trying to generate from the bowler's rough.
 
 Maxwell grafted his way to a maiden Test 50, reaching the milestone with a six off Jadeja. It also brought up the 100 of the partnership. Smith reached a well-deserved hundred -his second of the series -with a flowing ondriven boundary off Murali Vijay , who returned to the side in place of Abhinav Mukund.
 
 Four overs with the second new ball, claimed by Rahane, deputising for Kohli, did not yield any dividend, leaving India with the tall task of keeping Australia's first innings total in check.
 
 
