PUNE: State climate summaries and   climate projections for India may become a reality in the near future, scientists involved in the Indo-US Partnership for Climate Resilience said on Tuesday.

 The scientists were addressing a news conference on the sidelines of the workshop on the ‘Development and Applications of Downscaling Climate Projections’, organised by city-based Indian Institute for Tropical Meteorology.
 
 As part of the Indo-US Partnership for Climate Resilience, announced by Prime Minister   and former US President   in 2014,   is working with the American government in a series of collaborations to advance capacity for climate adaptation planning in India. 
 
 The first in the series of workshops is focused on techniques to downscale climate information and opportunities to share available downscaled information to local planners in India.
 
 David R Easterling, chief of the   at NOAA’s National Centers for Environmental Information in Asheville, North Carolina, said, “The US is committed to continue collaboration in this field over the next few years, with scientists working together with those from India.” 
 
 He further explained that climate summaries are developed for all states in the US and these provide the latest information on observed and projected climate changes for each state. 
 
 “One of the things we have proposed is bringing out such summaries for some of the Indian states in the future,” he said.
 
 Easterling added that city-specific climate projections for India may also be a possibility in the coming time.
 
 As part of the collaboration, scientists from both countries will also be focusing on the climate extremes in South Asia as well as regional climate modelling. 
 
 “As we experience the increasing effects of global warming, we observe changes in extreme events like heatwaves and extreme rainfall. This is a field that is of particular interest to us,” said Kenneth Kunkel, senior scientist at the North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies (NCICS).
 
 Speaking further on the recent advances in climate modelling, R Krishnan, executive director of the Centre for Climate Change Research at IITM, said, “The CORDEX South Asia program brings together scientists from the climate science and those involved in vulnerability, impacts and adaptation research from the Asian region to interpret raw, downscaled data for information on how climate processes over the continent may change, and to analyse how these changes may impact important sectors.”
 
 Director of IITM Ravi S Nanjundiah said that the ongoing workshop will identify collaborative research opportunities to develop additional high resolution climate data sets for the Indian subcontinent and approaches for their use in climate adaptation planning.
 
