BENGALURU: Six months   on feasible routes to link Namma Metro to the   ( ), there is no decision yet. However, Bengaluru city in-charge minister K J George said chief minister Siddaramaiah will make an announcement soon. 

 On Friday, George at a meeting with BDA officials said the Gottigere-Nagavara Metro line will connect to KIA via Thanisandra, Jakkur and meet the expressw ay on Ballari Road at Yelahanka. 
 
  However, a BMRC spokesperson said there has been no decision on the route yet. "The decision will be made by the CM. We have not got any directive from the government on route finalization," he said. 
 
  In September 2016, the state threw open nine routes for the public to choose and got about 1,000 responses. Citizens are eagerly waiting for a Metro link to the airport. 
 
  "Sarjapur is almost on the other end of the city. I fly twice a month and it takes me three hours just to reach the airport, which means I leave home almost five hours before my fight. It is becoming increasingly difficult. The proposed Metro route via Nagavara will cut down travel time by half for residents of Sarjapur, HSR Layout, Electronics City and other areas," said Mohammed Imran Shaikh. 
 
  Arshad Sheriff, a facility manager and resident of Whitefield who flies at least once a month, said, "It takes me one and a half hours to travel to the airport or back during peak hour traffic. Otherwise, it is a 40-minute drive when I fly during the wee hours of the day. It would be so convenient to use the Metro if I board from Tannery Road to the airport via Nagavara." 
 
  BMRC, in the second phase of the Namma Metro project, is ready to build a network connecting Gottigere on Bannerghatta Road to Nagavara in north-east Bengaluru via MG Road and foreign banks have already approved loans of Rs 3000 crore. Earlier, the BMRCL mulled on extending this line through Thanisandra, Bagalur and Kannur to connect to the airport, boosting transit oriented development (TOD). 
 
  Rajarshi Dhar, a management consultant from Electronics City, said, "I usually opt for the early morning flights to avoid daytime traffic. But it still takes two hours to reach the airport. It has been eight years since the airport was moved t o Devanahalli but the government has not bothered to connect the city with the Metro and even now it is dilly-dallying over the route. Land cost is increasing and it will ultimately tax the citizens to pay for such a huge infrastructure." 
 
 
