PUDUCHERRY: A former   from the directorate of  , Pondicherry University, who was denied   after his retirement on April 27 has launched an   along with his supporters in front of the administrative block on the university premises demanding settlement of his dues immediately.

 R Devasigamany said the university administration told him on his last working day that an FIR has been registered against him and that he was not entitled to receive full terminal benefits. Devasigamany and several others, including teaching and non-teaching staff and students, were booked by the police on charges of unleashing violence and ransacking university properties during a procession undertaken by supporters of former vice-chancellor Chandra Krishnamurthy, who was terminated by the Union human resources development ministry for plagiarism and other charges.
 
 “There are many orders from competent authorities including the Supreme Court declaring that an employee cannot be denied terminal benefits on grounds that an FIR has been registered against him or her. I was told on my last working day that I was one among those booked by police in some violent incident in the university. However, a chargesheet was not filed against me or others as on date. There is no valid reason to deny retirement benefits for me. I will continue my fast until university administration settles my dues,” Devasigamany said.
 
 The university administration has withheld pension pay order, gratuity and encashment of leave and provident fund for Devasigamany until the outcome of the department and legal proceedings against him. 
 
 “A few components of the terminal benefits were withheld. The university will extend provisional pension to him (Devasigamany) until the outcome of the proceedings,” said registrar (in-charge) M Ramachandran.
 
 This is not the first such instance in the university in recent times. Deputy registrar (recruitment) A Balasubramanian, who was instrumental in exposing fraudulent activities by Chandra and others, was slapped with a memo four days before his retirement and subsequently was denied terminal benefits in October last year. 
 
 Balasubramanian continued his tirade against reported misdeeds in university administration even after Chandra’s removal. He sent two emails last July to lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, also the chief rector of the university, alleging that the vice-chancellor in-charge Anisa Basheer Khan has been involved in violation of acts, statutes and ordinances of the university. Balasubramanian is yet to get a few components of his terminal benefits.
 
