LUCKNOW: Two sets of people can enter the majestic Vidhan Bhavan, the power center of  . The first one is an authorized entry pass-holding commoner but the other is the VIP.

 On a working day, the commoner can enter only after showing the pass at any of the 10 gates but the VIP can vroom right in, if his SUV bears a car pass, up to the old block which houses the Council Hall. The home guards or constables on duty salute in military precision and dare not ask if the supporters packed in the VIP’s car have the pass or not.
 
 On July 12, when the budget session began and the PETN was quietly smuggled through the four layered security, one could see the VIP supporters clicking selfies amid the presence of mute spectators in khakhi (police) and white uniforms (marshals). Climbing up the stairs, the common pass holder is stopped but the VIP can walk on. 
 
 The only time the VIPs stop is to shake hands with fellow MLAs and sycophants or give bytes to mediapersons. On being asked to explain the discrimination, a cop on duty said, “Anyone who stopped them would have to face a dressing down and who likes to be humiliated?” This happened on Friday too. SP MLCs Rajpal Kashyap and Sanjay Lather in fact raised the matter in the Vidhan Parishad with deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma.
 
 The two leaders, who claimed that they were being harassed in the name of security when they tried to enter post lunch, were asked by the security guard to show their individual passes. Sharma counselled them that security measures were for their own good. A similar resentment was shown by a BSP MLA on being asked to show entry pass.
 
 Former police officers say as long as   exists,   security will remain compromised. It is a general complaint from the security staff that MLAs and MLCs consider it demeaning to be frisked. “Netaji ki shan mein batta lagta hai agar koi rok le toh (Politicians find it derogatory if they are stopped),” confided a marshal. 
 
 A constable near the new building entrance added, “zyaada poochh taachh se transfer ho jata hai (quizzing the VIPs may lead to one’s transfer).” A lady staff said no one wants to invite trouble. However, they hoped the scenario would change now. 
 
