  , an agitated farmer from Aurangabad, has found support from unexpected quarters. At a juncture when Bhusare felt that he was at the mercy of the police, former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, leaders of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and Dhananjay Munde approached the Marine Drive police station to ascertain why he was beaten up. A few days ago, debt-ridden Bhusare had reached Mantralaya to present his case before chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. His contention was that while he was struggling to secure financial assistance to meet crop losses for the last two years and there was no response from the administration. Since Fadnavis was not present in Mantralaya, Bhusare tried to call on MoS Sadabhau Khot and agriculture minister Pandurag Fundkar. 

 The chambers of Fadnavis, Khot and Fundkar are on the sixth floor. Security officials told Bhusare that as the CM was in the council hall, it will not be possible for him to meet Fadnavis and that he should leave Mantralaya. When Bhusare refused to budge, there was a scuffle between Bhusare and police officials. 
 
 Bhusare alleged that he was mercilessly beaten up by security officials, while cops claimed he assaulted them. For the law-enforcement officials, the trouble started when Bhusare was taken to the Marine Drive police station. Pawar, Vikhe-Patil and Munde also landed there to protest against high-handedness. "The inept handling of the case resulted in a major embarrassment for the when the budget session is in progress. The opposition found a new weapon for attacking him," says a senior IPS officer.
 
  Rush for postings 
 
 Prime Minister   recently told   members from Uttar Pradesh that they should not interfere in the administration, particularly in postings and transfers. Nearer home, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will have to give a warning to his cabinet colleagues and legislators to keep away from the administration and not to lobby for postings and transfers of officials. It was found that the offices of senior ministers, particularly in the revenue, excise, public works, irrigation and rural developments, are flooded with requests for transfers. Ministers approach each other over postings and even take their issues to the CM. A glance at the letters received by ministers, leads one to the conclusion that several letters pertain to transfers. A private secretary says that he has seen several politicians, who do not leave a minister's cabinet unless their request for transfer is accepted on the same day. After Fadnavis took over the reins in December 2014, he had assured that all vacancies in the backward Vidarbha, Marathawada and in the Red-belt of Gadchiroli and Gondia districts will be filled up on top priority and those who do not take up new assignments, will be dealt with sternly. However, so far no data is available on whether or not the vacant posts in the backward regions have been filled up.
 
  Winning streak 
 
 Under the leadership of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, the BJP has set a new record in electoral politics. In the Lok Sabha polls, out of 48 seats the BJP secured 23 seats, in the assembly polls the party secured 123 seats out of 288. During the Lok Sabha polls, Narendra Modi had personally led by the campaign, but in Maharashtra, the grassroot-level planning was done by Fadnavis. In the assembly polls, it was not expected that the BJP would cross the 50 seat mark. However, the BJP was way ahead of all political parties, followed by the  , Congress. The NCP was relegated to the fourth position. The Congress was expecting that while the BJP's performance in the Lok Sabha and assembly polls was impressive, it would be unable to repeat it in the municipal councils, corporations and zilla parishads polls. In fact, former chief minister   and NCP chief Sharad Pawar made the zilla parishad and municipal council polls a prestige issue, but did not succeed. Barring Sindhudurg, the Congress was unable to secure a clear majority in any of the zilla parishads, while the NCP made its presence felt only in two districts. 
 
