BHOPAL: Come Thursday and Bhopalis will get to see rich cultural and artistic diversity of Indian states and three countries at state’s mega ‘Lokrang’ cultural festival, beginning at BHEL Dusshera ground from January 26. Chief minister   will inaugurate the 5-day festival, steep in tribal and folk art, which begin on Republic Day for years. Heydays for bamboo crafts, making of bamboo artefacts and decorations may have been long gone. 

 Master craftsmen from across the country are trying hard in their own innovative ways to keep art alive in the capital at  . Around 50 bamboo master artistes from Nagaland, West Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala were working for past one month on bamboo artefacts to be displayed at  .
 
 Tripura tribal artistes ‘mandap’ made of bamboo is a unique thing in this Lokrang. edition. Nagaland’s Yimchunger tribal craftsmen made their traditional angami bamboo baskets and handwoven lamps shades. Nooran Sisters,   and Sultana Nooran, Sufi singing duo from Punjab, who recently sung a Bollywood number ‘nanne balak’ in movie Dangal, are set to perform on last day of Lokrang. Begum Parveen Sultana, an Assamese classical singer, will also perform on the occasion. A music band from Kerala, which will play an orchestra made of bamboo is yet another one of major attractions at the fest.
 
  The five-day-long fest will also see three music bands from Cuba, Russia and Ukraine. Awards related to culture will be given away by the department of culture of MP. Actor Himani Shivpuri, known for her major role in Bollywood blockbusters ‘Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge‘ (1995), ‘Kuch Kuch Hota Hai‘ (1998) and ‘Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham‘ (2001) is set to perform. Besides, food stalls put up will also tickle taste buds of Bhopalis. A dance drama titled ‘Satrupa,’ based on a Gond tribal tale ‘Basin-Kanya’ will be held on third day of festival. The drama would tell the tale the origin of rituals associated with bamboo. It is being directed by Vyomesh Shukla and Himani Shivpuri will be the narrator of dance drama.
 
 Based on folk, tribal and classical dance, a programme ‘Samvet’ would be presented. 
 
 As many as 15 movies will be screened for children and Malkham and puppet shows would also be organised.
 
 
