GUWAHATI: The casualty of animals in   increased to 73 on Friday, with receding flood waters making more carcasses surface. The world heritage site, 250 km from here, was inundated on the first week of this month, and the animal death count stood at 53 till Thursday. 

 "As on Friday, there is significant improvement in flood situation. Now 50% of the park area is under water but the water levels are coming down. More carcasses killed in the peak of flood is surfacing now with the water receding," said   divisional forest officer, Rohini Ballab Saikia.
 
 Saikia informed water levels had reached up to six feet at several parts of the park during the peak of the deluge. "Most of the park is being patrolled by our staff on boats. At the same time we are also taking care of hygiene of the anti-poaching camps. Most of the camps have become dank because of excess water," Saikia added.
 
 Of the 73 animals killed between July 5 and July 14, 45 were due to drowning during peak floods. Among the animals drowned, there were four rhinos, 32 hog deer, four eastern swamp deer, two porcupines, one sambar, one wild boar and one asiatic buffalo.
 
 13 animals were killed after being run over by vehicles while trying to cross the National Highway 37 along the southern boundary of the 430 sq km park in an attempt to reach highlands. During floods, animals from the park come out in large numbers and take shelter on the elevated ground in neighbouring   by crossing the highway. 
 
 14 hog deer have succumbed to death at the Bokakhat-based Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC), after being injured either during floods or being hit by vehicles. Another 88 hog deer are undergoing treatment at CWRC. 
 
 Located on the flood plains of Brahmaputra, Kaziranga has to undergo a deluge every year. In fact, the ecology of the park - home to a large population of the Big Five (rhinos, tigers, elephants, Asiatic buffalo and Eastern swamp deer) - is intrinsically linked to the annual flood. The deluge recharges the 200-odd wetlands and triggers fresh growth of grassland on which large herbivore populations thrive. 
 
 Last year Kaziranga experienced the worst deluge since 1988, killing at least 300 species of animals, including 22 rhinos. 
 
 
