VADODARA: Around seven to eight unidentified men broke into   at Virod near the city during the wee hours of Thursday and decamped with over Rs 55,000 cash and damaged college property.

 Police said that the burglars first broke into the branch of   on the campus and tried to open the bank’s strong room. But, when they could not open it, they broke the computers, CCTV cameras and fire system of the bank. The robbers then got into the bank’s ATM and removed the ATM machine’s screen but they could not break the machine’s cash chamber. Out of desperation to get money, the burglars attacked seven security guards of the college. They beat them up with wooden sticks after covering their faces with black cloth. 
 
 After beating them, they tied them up and locked them in the college’s canteen. They even took their mobile phones, the police said.
 
 A police official said that the accused entered the college’s administration office and broke the cupboards and removed all files and papers from it. 
 
 Since, they did not find cash there, they went to the accounts office and broke the safe there from which they stole Rs 55,627 cash. “Luckily, the burglars did not find cash worth around Rs 3.5 lakh that were kept in other cupboards of the accounts office,” said Dr Milind Beedkar, director, corporate affairs of the college.
 
 The CCTV footage checked by the cops showed that after they took the cash, the robbers went to the college’s library where they destroyed the furniture and computers. From the library, the burglars went to the academic block and broke its glass doors, computers and CCTV cameras. The police said that the damage to the property of the college could be valued at around Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 The police reached the college campus on Thursday morning along with a team forensic experts and started the investigations. “Though several CCTV cameras were broken, we have found the footage. The burglars were aged around 30 to 40 years and their faces were covered. However, we have found some evidences against them,” said a police official. The complainant told the police that the robbers were talking to each other in Gujarati in tribal accent.
 
 The college is affiliated to   (GTU) and Godhra-based Shri Govind Guru University.
 
 
