  

 
 Shruti Haasan, Pawan Kalyan, Kamal Kamaraju, Rao Ramesh
 
 
 Kishore Kumar Pardasani
 
 
 24 Mar, 2017
 
 
 2 hrs 30 mins
 
 
  Katamarayudu is an Telugu language film directed by Kishore Kumar Pardasani which features Pawan Kalyan and Shruti Haasan in the lead roles. It is a remake of Tamil film Veeram. The film was released worldwide on 24 March 2017. In this film a man tries to overcome his violent tendencies but is pushed beyond his limits.
 
 
 : The first half of the movie is light-hearted and and is a laughter riot, courtesy Ali and company. And the cinematography, screenplay and script are engaging too till the break. The action scenes show Pawan Kalyan's enigma in full force. PKs styling could have been better in some scenes. However, watch this space for more details on the film! 
 .
 
 
  The storyline in the second half is predictable and the screenplay is on the slower side. Some of the song sequences are passable while the music and background score remains decent throughout. Prudhvi’s performance as Avanti’s uncle is reminiscent of similar roles by Brahmanandam as he tries to ward off Pawan’s interest for Avanti, and he does a decent job with it. Although the fight sequences continue to hero elevate Pawan, the special effects are a bit tardy in a few places especially in the train fight sequence. The climax too is predictable but Pawan manages to shoulder the few imperfections by his sheer screen presence. 
 ...
 
 
  According to the trade analysts, the first day of Dolly directorial- 'Katamarayudu' with Shruti Haasan as the female lead minted over Rs 55 crore, from across 1500 screens that were allotted worldwide. It has made a whopping Rs 100 crore pre-release business and is set to beat the records with its remarkable figures. 
 
 
 : On Saturday, the Dolly directorial has gained about Rs 30 crore and is racing ahead to join the Rs 100 crore club, very soon. It seems, by the end of weekend, the movie will break the previous records by entering Rs 100 crore club, setting another record. 
 
 
 : The overall earnings of the film stands close to the Rs 100 crore mark. Watch this space for more updates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
