BENGALURU: The upcoming bypolls to   and   assembly constituencies will be a straight fight between the Congress and the   with the JD(S) unlikely to enter the poll fray citing “prudential“ reasons.

 Though the JD(S) honchos are yet to formally comment on the issue, party insiders said a decision has been taken not to contest the bypolls despite the battle ground being the Old Mysuru region, a JD(S) bastion. While the Congress and the BJP are going hammer and tongs against each other in the two constituencies, the JD(S) has remained dormant so far.
 
 TOI gives a lowdown on why the JD(S) prefers to watch the poll game rather than play it.
 
 
 
 
 A recent internal survey in the two constituencies reportedly didn't give a thumbs up to a JD(S) victory . While the emotional factor is likely to play the decisive role in Gundlupet (the bypoll was necessitated following the death of minister H S  ), it is a battle of egos between chief minister Siddaramaiah and BJP candidate V Sreenivas Prasad in Nanjangud. In such a scenario, fielding a JD(S) candidate will only spilt the Congress votes and that, in turn, will help the BJP coast to victory. The JD(S) feels the only way to stop the BJP from getting the pole position in the race for 2018 assembly polls is by not contesting these two bypolls.
 
 
 
 
 Though the JD(S) leaders are likely to be mocked at for not fielding candidates in these constituencies, political common sense dictates that it is better not to contest when the odds are against it. Sources said: “If the BJP wins here, it will get more bullish in the run-up to the 2018 assembly polls. As a regional party, we cannot afford to play reckless political games now.“
 
 
 
 
 While the BJP and the Congress have deeper pockets, the JD(S) feels the bypolls will a unnecessary waste of resources. “Since this is a proxy battle between Siddaramaiah and BJP strongman B S Yeddyurappa, the poll expenditure in the two constituencies will hit the roof. Why should we empty our resources by entering the fray?“ a JD(S) leader asked.
 
 
 
 
 For reasons unknown, JD(S) circles feel the   assembly elections (May 2018) will be advanced. Secondly, JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy has recently recuperated from illness and a poll campaign will add to stress. Why not prepare for the bigger battle instead of wasting energy on bypolls?
 
