JODHPUR: Over a dozen principals, headmasters and teachers from government schools have embarked upon ensuring that 60 class X and XII students from various government schools in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Barmer make it to the merit list in a 10-day   instead of vacationing.

 These students, who will take their board exams after two months, are being given classes in science, arts and other subjects daily. Each period lasts for for 1.5 to 2 hours.
 
 All these students scored 80% or more in their in their previous classes. The camp started on December 26. They have been accommodated at   (Ratanada) here, which has been converted into a hostel for them. Here they study, dine and sleep.
 
 Coordinator of this initiative, Devi Bijani, who is headmistress of a  , said that the objective of this camp is to groom the students to understand the question papers, patterns and correct way to write the answers so as to ensure maximum scores.
 
 “All of them have scored above 80% marks in classes IX and XII. So, obviously they have an urge to keep that level. But we want them to be more focused and correct in their approach so that they can make it to the merit list,” said Bijani.
 
 Motivating the students has also been made an integral part of this camp. Motivational speakers are giving them tips to keep their morale high in all situations and be focused.
 
 All the teaching staff here is offering voluntary service and trying best to clear all the subject-related doubts or confusions of students in these classes, which start at 8.30 am after one-hour yoga class and continue till 6 pm.
 
 Before initiation of the classes, all the students were subjected to a test, so that the teachers could figure out their knowledge level and then adapt their teaching methodology accordingly.
 
 Bijani said that though some parents, especially those of girls, were initially a bit hesitant in sending their daughters for this stay-in camp and some of them even stayed here for 2-3 days. But soon all of them were satisfied and pleased with the move.
 
 Taruna Bhatia, a Class XII science student who has come from Balotara, was very happy to attend the camp and said that he was finding it very helpful in the run up to her board exam. “I do not have science teacher in my school and we are compelled to take tuitions for this subject, where there are certain limitations. But here we are being explained chapters in detail with every query and confusion being addressed,” Bhatia said.
 
 Arrangements for facilities like food, breakfast and beds have been made with the help of some donors of the city. Some educational institutes have also sent their subject teachers for voluntary classes.
 
 According to the deputy director (education)  , this will not end just here. There will be a follow-up of these students until the exam.
 
 
