MUMBAI: In a reprieve for   Collective, the NGO run by noted lawyer  , the Bombay high court on Monday by an interim order defreezed the non-FCRA and domestic bank accounts of the organisation. Justice  , while admitting the petition filed by   challenging the cancellation of its registration, also halted the Union government’s directive to the charity commissioner to dispose off its assets.

 “The allegations of “mixing of foreign contribution with local/domestic funds” are quite vague. On the basis of same, pending the hearing and final disposal of the appeal, it may not be proper to freeze practically all the bank accounts of (Lawyers Collective) and thereby, completely cripple its activities and functioning. There is no allegation in this case that any amounts were siphoned out of the FCRA accounts/FCRA utilisation accounts by (Lawyers Collective) after the issue of show cause notice dated May 31, 2016,” said Justice Sonak. The HC said that Central government under the Foreign Contributions (Regulation) Act could regulate and even stop the acceptance and utilisation of foreign funds by individuals or associations. “However, at least prima facie, by resort to the provisions of FCRA, the Central Government cannot stifle the very functioning and the activities of individuals or associations, provided, such activities and such functioning is not otherwise in breach of any legal provisions.”
 
 The HC rejected a plea by the government to stay the order, and directed the NGO to maintain and file quarterly statements of the money utilised from the bank accounts. The court added that the freeze order upon the FCRA Accounts/FCRA Utilisation Accounts “shall remain pending the appeal and the same is not liable to be disturbed”.
 
 On November 27, 2016, six months after it had suspended the NGO’s FCRA license, the Union government had cancelled its registration. Further, the government directed RBI and the banks to freeze the money in the NGO’s FCRA account/FCRA utilisation account as well as its other accounts. The charity commissioner was also asked to initiate appropriate action, which would have resulted in the disposing off of the organisation’s assets. 
 
 Senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate  , who represented Lawyers Collective questioned the directive to the charity commissioner as according to them it could be done only if the organisation ceased to exist or became defunct. The advocates contended that the government could not have frozen the non FCRA accounts. They urged that no case was made out for such a drastic order, which will bring to a standstill the NGO’s activities and violated their fundamental rights. 
 
 Additional solicitor general Anil Singh opposed any interim relief and claimed that the NGO had violated provisions of the FCRA. Singh said that the trustees of the NGO had received and spent foreign contributions for activities not listed in the objectives of the association. The ASG pointed to the appointment of advocate  , a Trustee of the NGO, as United Nation Special Rapporteur and the amounts received and spent by him towards travel and other expenses. “On account of such serious breaches there is no case made out for grant of any interim reliefs,” said the ASG.
 
