Eating patterns are an integral part of our health management.   ( ) is the ratio between body weight and height. The higher the BMI, higher is the weight. This correlation has been well established. What we did not know and are now beginning to understand is that BMI is also an indicator of the food eating patterns and how they influence the selection of high or low energy foods for any individual. 

 It has been suggested by   that it is imperative to look at the patterns in which food is consumed rather than just nutrient uptake in any population. This recommendation by WHO has created a new thought within the research community that food intake and   is not the only component to be considered for weight and disease issues. It may be a little more than that. The food eaten in a specific manner and in a specific emotional condition is a big contributor to its bioavailability and its impact on the general health.
 
 In a recent study published in the journal Appetite, the researchers have looked at this very aspect. They have tried to record data on the snacking behavior of people based on their social circumstances. This has been taken as the main focus area for the study because there is a large amount of data which has been generated on the relation between food, BMI and weight but most of these studies do not talk about the social and emotional setting in which or because of which we eat. The sample studied had 122 people with the BMI ranging from 18.34 to 45.71 kg/m2. The participants were asked to record their snacking patterns over a period of 2 weeks.
 
 It was observed that people who had higher BMI's had a tendency to snack on high energy foods. But the interesting data was that when these people ate with others they did choose low energy foods to snack on. In principle, this study does confirm the fact that “We are what we eat" and food, mood and BMI are connected to each other.
 
 
 
 1. Schüz B, Revell S, Hills AP, et al. Appetitie. 2017 Jul 1;114:1-5.
 
 
 
 Dr.  , MBBS, DDPE, PGDHSc, MHSc in Diabetology, Diabetes Educator and Consultant Diabetologist, ACEER Health, Chennai
 
  drkmanoj.diab@gmail.com
 
 
 : The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
 
 
