VISAKHAPATNAM: Thousands of people were having a good time soaking in the sea breeze on the Beach Road on a cool Sunday evening (April 30). Out of nowhere, a school bus came, rammed the pavement and ploughed into a family of four members, killing 70-year-old Dusi Dharma Rao and injuring three others critically. Rao was an author and his son   is an additional SP in the  .

 Though Kishore puts up a brave front 48 hours after the horrific tragedy, his 11-year-old son Devaguru is on a ventilator and battling for his life in a corporate hospital. Lying on his hospital bed, Kishore told TOI, “What has happened is all destiny. I am thankful to god that we three have survived.” He was referring to his 14-year-old daughter Manjeera, who suffered a fracture but is out of danger. Kishore goes on to add, “If god willing, we will all get out of the hospital together,” hinting that he is well aware of his son’s critical condition.
 
 The killer bus hit the pavement opposite a star hotel at around 8.30 pm and crashed into the wall where the victims were enjoying a nice outing. Rao died on the spot. Kishore fractured his legs and arms. While Kishore has taken the mishap in his stride, his wife Lavanya is still in a state of shock. Lavanya, who is praying for her son’s recovery, says: “How can I survive when my son is in such terrible condition?” 
 
 Kishore, who was transferred to Vijayawada a month ago, was in the port city for their house-warming on April 29. After attending a cultural programme at a hotel on April 30, the family came to the Beach Road. They were waiting for Rao’s wife and Lavanya who went out for shopping when the bus hit them. The tragedy was such that Kishore could not even attend the funeral of his father in Srikakulam.
 
 “Ever since the doctors told Devaguru’s chances of survival are very slim, she is in a semi-conscious state,” said Lavanya’s elder brother Shyamal Rao. A team of experts are treating the boy in Seven Hills Hospital. Dr PV Ramana, neurosurgeon, told TOI, “The boy was sent here from KGH in an unconscious condition. He had sustained abdominal and head injuries. His right leg had to be amputated and spleen was removed. He had suffered severe blood loss. We had performed an emergency surgery. But he is not responding to the treatment. Currently, he is on a life support system.”
 
 When contacted, ACP (east) Narasimha Murthy ruled out that the driver, Krishna, was drunk at the time of the crash. He said a case under section 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 337, 338, (causing grievous hurt), 279 (rash driving) of IPC and section 3 (damage to public property) has been slapped on the driver. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner, RTA, S Venkateswara Rao said the bus was in a perfect condition.
 
