MUMBAI: The   has come to the rescue of 750 inmates languishing in the state's jails despite being granted bail. It has roped in students from several   to assist such inmates in tasks like filling forms, scrutinizing documents and finding out about conditions for bail.

 Of 23,000  , over 5,000 were arrested for minor offences or for crime where punishment is less than seven years.
 
 The department, in association with KC Law College, organised a workshop for 250   on Sunday, where students and faculty members were briefed about the initiative. “We will take help from law students to draft inmates' legal documents like surety papers and bond papers, and for understanding the conditions for securing bail," said a senior jail official.
 
 The plan will initially be implemented in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai.“We have contacted around 10 colleges at these places," the officer said. In Mumbai, apart from KC Law College, the other big institution is Government Law College.
 
 Under the initiative, each law college will be allotted prisons and inmates. “Students will be provided space to meet inmates under the guidance of college and prison authorities. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone, 400-450 inmates have been granted bail, but are still in jail. Some don't even have the money to post bail," said a police source. Only 7,000 of the state's 23,000 prisoners are convicts.
 
 “There are cases where there are no guarantors for prisoners (if an accused is from outside Maharashtra).Some prisoners' identity papers are not proper. We have identified all such inmates and are working for their release," said the official.
 
 The principal of a participating college said, “Law students will get first-hand experience on how to deal with prisoners. They will get to interact with them, understand their problems and help  . We want our students to get involved in social issues."
 
 In June, the state government set up a committee led by retired justice S Radhakrishnan to study prison conditions, including overcrowding and obstacles to modernisation. The panel was set up after Justice Abhay Oka of the Bombay high court in March directed the state to improve conditions in jails. Advocate Shishir Hiray said bail should be made easier for petty crime. “First time offenders in minor crimes should be granted bail and released as a matter of right."
 
