GURUGRAM: The decaying body of a  , who had gone   on January 5 from the Pir Baba shrine in Civil Lines near state minister Rao Narveer Singh’s residence, was found in a water tank at   near Rajiv Chowk on Wednesday.

 Police suspect the body was dumped in the tank after the girl was sexually assaulted and murdered — there were no undergarments on the body — and added sections 302 (murder) and 201 (hiding evidence) of IPC, and   Act, in the FIR filed in the case. 
 
 It is the second incident of kidnap and murder of minor girls in the city this month. Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar has announced the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) for speedy investigation into the case.
 
 “This is a shocking incident. We have formed a SIT and are trying to nab the accused. Many of the cases related to sexual assault on children have been solved, but some are pending. We’re not ruling out the possibility that some of these cases may be related. We hope to put the accused behind bars at the earliest,” said Khirwar, adding, “We’re also examining old records of criminals who were involved in such crimes.”
 
 The girl, Saraswati (name changed), her twin sister Godavari (name changed) and their grandmother had gone to Pir Baba’s shrine on January 5 for a bhandara (community meal). Around 6pm, Saraswati left to relieve herself, and never returned.
 
 Based on the complaint of her father, Rajan Sahu, an FIR was registered at Civil Lines police station the same day, under Sections 346 (wrongful confinement) and 366 (abduction) of IPC. 
 
 Police launched a search for the girl by inspecting CCTV footage from Civil Lines to Rajiv Chowk, but could not trace her.
 
 Around 11.30am on Wednesday, ASI Jaikishan, who was deployed as traffic staff at Rajiv Chowk, spotted the body when he went to relieve himself behind an artificial mound in Drona Park, and informed Civil Lines police station. SHO inspector   led a team to the spot and pulled out the minor’s decaying body from the water tank. Later, her father identified her by face, which was recognisable. 
 
 According to police, the girl’s father is a native of Satna in Madhya Pradesh and lived with his wife and two daughters in a rented accommodation in Sector 15, Part 2. He was working as a security guard and doubled as a rickshawpuller.
 
 “I used to take them to Pir Baba’s shrine every Thursday,” said the girl’s grandmother. “When Saraswati went missing, I contacted police in the hope she would be returned. But now, my life is shattered. I want strict action against the culprit,” said the father.
 
