HYDERABAD: The   on Friday told the Telangana government to reveal the quantum of water being drawn by   Bhadrachalam Paper Board from the Godavari at Bhadrachalam and also the details of permission given to the company. It gave the   two weeks to file its counter. The HC was dealing with a contempt petition filed by Ch Srinivas of Khammam urging the court to punish the official for negligence in implementing the court's earlier orders.

 A bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice M S Ramachandra Rao displayed a sense of shock when petitioner Ch Srinivas placed before it documents obtained via right to information (RTI) act that showed that the company was illegally drawing water much beyond the level it was granted permission by the state.
 
 The bench asked the Telangana irrigation department to explain why it had filed an affidavit that did not show the required details of water being drawn by the firm from Godavari. It also warned of initiating contempt proceedings against Aditya Nath Das, the principal secretary in united AP's irrigation department, for misleading the court with half-truths and for not complying with the earlier HC order of December 2013 clearly asking him to inform the court about the exact quantum of water being drawn daily by the ITC company.
 
 The bench also did not like the statement made by the state's irrigation counsel that they were merely imposing penalty for violations of the company. The bench expressed its surprise when Telangana's coun sel said that their executive engineer was monitoring the water consumption by the company only once in a month and not daily as the department was required.
 
 Following a request from Telangana's irrigation counsel, the bench gave the state two weeks to file a correct affidavit duly depicting the true picture of the consumption by the company.
 
 Petitioner's counsel Ch Siddhartha Sarma told the court that the state of Andhra Pradesh had granted permission to the ITC company for drawing 15 million gallons per day (mgpd) from Godavari in 1979. The company expanded its manufacturing capacity several times and has now been using six times more water than what was originally permitted. He also placed before the bench documents he obtained through RTI route that showed the increased consumption of water by the company.
 
 Seeking an explanation from the state, the bench said: “You cannot say these documents are bogus because they were furnished by you under RTI route. If they are genuine, then the affidavit filed by the irrigation secretary is wrong and falls within the purview of perjury.“
 
