NAGPUR: Many small time traders in the city are still struggling long after  , with business reported to be halved in most cases. However, there were a few exceptions where traders said the scrapping of notes did not affect them at all. TOI spoke to   across the city, ranging from cobblers to food stall owners, and asked them if the note ban was a good idea. A majority of them were in favour of demonetization, believing that the move has exposed those involved in corruption till now, while some did not approve of it, claiming the poor have borne the brunt.

 Umakant Lawatre, a tyre repairer in Mangalwari, was among the worst affected, with his total earnings as low as Rs 400 per day after demonetisation. When offered a Rs 2000 note for a service worth Rs 100, Lawatre finds it difficult to provide change to his customers and does it on credit instead.
 
 Fruit juice vendor Ratan Patel says his business is still limping after 50 days after withdrawal of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 bank notes, with his earning down by 80%. However, he has faith in the Modi government and said, “Acche din aane waale hain.”
 
 On the other hand, there were those who do not support the demonetization move. Usman Sheikh, owner of a small accessories shop, showed no confidence in the government’s decision. “My sales plunged to 30% from what I used to make prior November 8. It is becoming increasingly difficult for me to provide for my family,” said Sheikh.
 
 The situation is not normal for Motilal Tiwari, a paan shop owner at Gokulpeth Square, as he now sells his goods on credit to his regular customers. He believes that this decision does not discriminate between the rich and the poor and brings justice to everyone.
 
 There were some who believed the implementation could have been more tactful. “Although banning nig notes is a good step, however, enough fresh currency should have been kept ready to maintain liquidity in the system,” said Devendra Dhage, a roadside florist.
 
 TOI came across a neutral opinion. Tea vendor Satish Waghmare said, “The government did what was required. This decision did not affect me.” Waghmare found it easy to escape the demons of demonetization since he does not have to deal with larger denominations.
 
 A handful of vendors have already started using e-wallets and are all set to acquire point of sale (PoS) machines in order to keep up with the PM’s cashless mantra. Ankit Shriwas, who operates a food truck on Residency Road, has started using Paytm for his business after understanding the importance of digital transactions. Similarly, Santosh Kumar, who runs a food stall in Dharampeth, has also opted for the e-wallet. Both vendors report that cashless payments constitute to 20% of the total transactions. Dhage plans to install a PoS machine in January since it will become a necessity in the future.
 
 
