NAGPUR: Political parties are leaving no stone unturned to woo women voters for the upcoming civic polls in light of bigger areas of four wards in one prabhag.

 They are making the best use of tradition and culture to ensure women turn out in large numbers and vote for them. In fact, the Maharastrian ritual of hosting ‘haldi kumkum’ has sparked ‘competitive’ trend among political parties here, with the better halves of corporators and aspirants trying to outdo one another in absurdity and the scale of celebrations.
 
 Traditionally, ‘haldi kumkum’ has been a family affair where married women invite a small group of friends, neighbours or relatives, and exchange turmeric and vermilion as a symbol of their married status. However, with the announcement of civic polls, political parties have taken to the celebrations clearly aimed at wooing voters.
 
 Team TOI visited many localities in the city on Friday and found that several such programmes are being organized. In fact, it is turning out to be one grand celebration with special mandap set up to accommodate anywhere between 50 and 500 women, the wives of sitting corporators and aspirants presenting gifts to women folk.
 
 A woman BJP corporator from West Nagpur too is holding small scale ‘haldi kumkum programmes’ in various localities in her ward. Though she claimed that she was holding such programmes every year, it is being organized in large scale this year. “In fact, it is a symbol of my firm grip over my constituents so that they do not slip away elsewhere,” the corporator, requesting anonymity, said.
 
 With most women unwilling to participate in any political rally or function organized by a politician, ‘haldi kumkum’ has been effectively put to use by the wives of politicians to reach out to women, who usually do not refuse such an invitation.
 
 With election fever gripping the city, women are being invited to such functions and even picnics at nearby locations with alarming regularity.
 
 Lata Gawre, a resident of Anant Nagar pointed, said women in her locality have suddenly become busy attending this ritual. “Politicians come to us with folded hands and request us to attend the two-minute programme. This is because of the civic polls. We did not see such programmes earlier,” Gawre said.
 
 Pratibha Waghmare, a resident of Nara, said a candidate from a political party chooses at least 10 venues in North Nagpur for such programmes. “He expects maximum number of women to attend them,” she claimed. A corporator in East Nagpur is holding sports events on January 26 for the people in his constituency.
 
 Political analysts say this is a ploy by parties to garner votes. “Such programmes are organized by candidates contesting elections without any issues. It is nothing else but pretence,” said political analyst  .
 
 According to him, political and issue-based educations are lacking among voters. “As a result, what we get is ill-informed electorate and it resulted into haphazard developmental works,” he said.
 
 Senior citizen  , a resident of  , too questioned why did the same people not organize ‘haldi kumkum’ on such a large scale last year or before that. “They won’t even organize these next year,” a miffed Chakraborty said.
 
 She wondered how many parties have actually appointed women in key posts. “This is a gimmick to woo women and secure their votes,” she said.
 
 Some candidates have also started arranging visits to religious places and picnics for senior citizens and party activists. “It is very sad that despite being a democracy, candidates have to resort to such activities to get votes,” Jambhulkar added.
 
 
