THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The  , which began functioning at Muttada, will soon roll out services, including   and catering. The livelihood centre has been set up at Muttada as part of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM). It is also set to have a new branch at Palayam Connemara market.

 Plumbers, electricians, security personnel, housekeepers, household labourers, drivers, etc. who register in the labour bank, will get employment opportunities through this scheme. The selection will be based on the strict verification of the personal data of workers.
 
 With an aim to ensure healthy lifestyle and to promote pesticide-free vegetables, the organic vegetables, including those cultivated by   units, will be sold through the centre. The catering service is entrusted with the Kudumbashree catering units and people can register with the centre to avail the service from the nearest catering unit.
 
 City Livelihood Centre also aims to provide basic awareness among the public on various job training programmes and job opportunities under NULM. “Kudumbashree members in my society have gained confidence that they can earn more from the sales through City Livelihood Centre. They are really ambitious about building a bright future. There are several transgender persons in my society and I hope that they will also be a strong part of this scheme,” said  , chairperson of a community development society (CDS) unit.
 
 The aim of the project is to promote self-employment and organization of rural poor into self-help groups. Food items, toys, bags, handicraft items, fruits, squash, soaps, lotion, curry powders, grains and pulse powders, dress materials, etc. produced by Kudumbashree members are on sale in this centre.
 
 The profit from the sales will be equally divided among the members in the respective societies. “The ultimate aim of the City Livelihood Centre is to provide a platform for the poor to sell their products and services, and also to ensure a safe livelihood for them. The various activities that will be implemented through this project will lead to the social and financial upliftment of the poor,” said R Geetha Gopal, chairperson, corporation welfare standing committee.
 
