PANAJI: Arguing that just like having a single religion or language across the whole country is impossible, president of the Goa study group   said that the Uniform Civil Code cannot be forced upon any community.

 “Article 44 of the Constitution is a directive principle and says that the state shall endeavour to secure an Uniform Civil Code throughout the country. But, it cannot contradict the fundamental right to freedom of practising any religion,” Faleiro said, while speaking at a panel discussion on the issue of implementing a Uniform Civil Code in the country. Putting his views across, former additional solicitor general of India, and former advocate general of Goa, Manohar S   stated that the presence of a code will surely protect women across all religions.
 
 “The solemnization of marriage in front of court is necessary and a must as it protects women. The Goan civil code has made it mandatory and that is a good thing,” Usgaoncar said, adding that the controversial triple talaq norm stands illegal in the eye of the law as it gives unilateral power to one member.
 
 Defending the Sharia laws which guide the Muslim personal laws, member, All India Muslim Personal Law Board Fakhira Ateeq said that just like other religions’ personal law board, the Muslim community is governed by its own.
 
 “The Sharia cannot be altered or changed by any mufti or any personal law board. The governing principles are from divine scriptures and coding them will not yield any positive results. The imposition of the uniform civil code will disturb the social fabric of the country and the government should be questioned about what kind of uniformity it is seeking,” Ateeq said, adding that whatever reforms are needed should come from within the community and the Supreme Court should not interfere in the matters of religion.
 
 The views were partially supported by principal, V M Salgaocar College of Law, M R K Prasad, who opined that people are seeking a common civil code in guise of a uniform civil code. “There is no clarity on the model of civil code and the law commission should make a model uniform civil code and make it public for scrutiny,” Prasad said, adding that all personal laws are male biased and need immediate reforms. 
 
 
