CHANDIGARH: Taking note of recent gang wars and jailbreak bids, the Congress government has revived the proposal to introduce the contentious   to restore law and order in the state.

 With 57 organized gangs, having 420-odd members, operating in the state, then deputy chief minister   had proposed this Act but the   did not approve it after its members expressed apprehensions over the move.
 
 The proposal was tabled before Punjab home secretary N S Kalsi last week by a group of senior police officers. 
 
 This assumes significance as Punjab Police has so far failed to crack recent killings of Sirsa Dera sect followers and Hindu sect leaders, find strong leads in Maur terror attack in Bathinda or trace killers of RSS vice-president V P Gagneja or Namdhari matriarchal chief Mata Chand Kaur (both the cases which were eventually handed over to the CBI).
 
 The proposal says under the bill, which is loosely based on the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), all confessions of criminals booked under the Arms Act can be made before the rank of superintendent of police and are admissible in a court of law.
 
 The bill will also empower a DIG-rank or above officers to invoke PCOCA with a detailed note on why IPC is unable to handle the act of crime.
 
 The proposal cites existing laws as weak and inadequate to set a deterrent to curb organized crime as well as seek conviction of criminals.
 
 "A data from 1996 onwards shows that out of total 105 judicial pronouncements in criminal cases pertaining to gangsters and crime syndicates, the prosecution has been able to secure conviction only in 10 cases," it says. "Whereas 95 cases have gone into acquittal," it points out.
 
 The proposal further says that there has been no conviction of any gangster.
 
 "Accordingly a draft PCOCA was prepared and sent to the government on October 13, 2016. 
 
 Now it is requested that the matter may get expedited and action be undertaken so that an effective law can be put in place to prevent and control any unlawful activities of organized crime syndicate," it adds.
 
 The bill will also secure witness protection programmes and in-camera court proceedings.
 
 Punjab advoicate general Atul Nanda said he was yet to see the proposal.
 
