MUMBAI: How much has been the actual ' ' or replacement of scrapped currency by   since November 8, 2016?

 Numbers doing the rounds following the   governor's statement to the parliamentary standing committee on finance seemed to indicate that Rs 9.2 lakh crore of demonetised currency was replaced by RBI. This seemed to indicate that 60% of banned currency was remonetised.
 
 However, the reserve money numbers released by RBI as part of its regular data dissemination showed that as on January 13, currency in circulation (CIC) was Rs 9.5 lakh crore. This includes the non-demonetised low de nomination notes worth Rs 2.53 lakh crore. If the CIC number were to be adjusted for the notes already in circulation, the addition to the stock of currency (replacement of banned notes) works out to Rs 6.97 lakh crore.
 
 Sources in the RBI said that the apparent discrepancy has arisen because the number shared by RBI was the data gathered on notes in circulation as on January 13.
 
  This means that remonetisation at Rs 6.97 lakh crore would be only 45.3% of the scrapped currency notes. While this number may appear small given that the Rs 2,000 denomination itself amounted to nearly Rs 5 lakh crore, it does not include the notes in transit or in RBI's currency chest.“If the extent of remonetisation is only Rs 7 lakh crore, it is an indication that the central bank had shifted to printing of lower denomination currency notes,“ said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic advisor, SBI. 
 
 He added that going by the official CIC number, around 70% of remonetisation would be completed by Februaryend. “But if you factor in the transactions that have moved to digital platform, particularly for fuel, 70% of remonetisation should be good enough to bring about normalcy in transactions.“
 
 “New notes put in circulation of Rs 6.78 lakh crore appears more correct when tallying it with the currency in circulation data. The Rs 9.2 lakh crore number appears to refer to something else. If indeed Rs 9.2 lakh crore of new notes were issued, then CIC would have risen at a much faster pace, which it has not,“ said Sonal Verma, chief India economist at Nomura, Singapore. 
 
