PATIALA: Having come in the line of fire of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for failing to enforce an effective plan to cut down stubble burning, which was widely blamed for choking the   ( ) last year, the   (PPCB) swung into action last month and has so far imposed fines on more than 1,800 farmers.

 The PPCB had been pulled up by the NGT in October and November last year, when air pollution in parts of the NCR had gone up alarmingly. While state authorities defended their role, claiming the pollution in Delhi and its surrounding areas was not caused by burning of crop residue in Punjab, NGT had not accepted the contentions and directed the state to come up with effective measures to curtail the menace.
 
 To comply with NGT orders, PPCCB has imposed fines up to Rs 2,500 on farmers owning 2.5 acres, Rs 5,000 on those having 2.5 acres to five acres, Rs 7,500 on those owning between five acres and 10 acres, and Rs 15,000 on those having more than 10 acres.
 
 According to official data, area under paddy cultivation had gone up from 28 lakh hectares in 2015 to 30 lakh hectares during the last sowing season. Agriculture experts said Punjab produced 66.54 lakh tonnes of crop residue last year. Most of it, however, was set on fire in the absence of viable alternatives. 
 
 Farm experts told the TOI that inefficient machines to chop crop residue and a short span of time between harvest and sowing of next crops posed a challenge in dealing with the menace. PPCCB chairman Manpreet Singh said, “A plan to put paddy straw to commercial use has been chalked out; it has already been presented before the NGT. We are also trying to promote different tools that can be used to mix stubble in the soil at the time of sowing of the next crop.” 
 
 He said the board had also roped in the state’s animal husbandry department to make paddy straw edible for dairy animals. “I am sure that by imposing fines and providing farmers with practical alternatives, we will be able to control the problem,” he said.
 
 Punjab additional chief secretary (development) Nirmaljeet Singh Kalsi, who had been at the forefront of formulating plans to deal with the problem, said the previous government had proposed subsidies for farmers to encourage use of alternate means. He said with PPCB taking action against the violators and by promoting alternate means, the problem was likely to the curtailed to a great extent. 
 
