Put away the mics and loudspeakers, people. Yes, there’s a twist to   festivities, which is synonymous with foot-tapping, pulse-pounding music and beats; in fact higher the tempo, the more fun it is. However,   are now indulging in the fun, but in absolute silence! In a first of its kind, the city is witnessing a ‘silent’   dance being held in the suburbs. Paradoxical? No, it’s turning out to be a hot and happening  ! You still enjoy the beats, but on your own   instead of those large, megawatt speakers. And judging by the reactions of those who have tried it, it’s a hit already! 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 The idea takes off from silent discos in Goa, where folks dance to music using   headphones. And who can forget the peppy ‘break-up’ track in Ae Dil Hai Mushkil? With the idea to keep noise levels in check, the   is held in an indoor banquet room in Malad. At 7 pm, the live garba begins and after 10 pm, you get to go silent with your choices. Says organiser Monesh Soni, “This is the world’s first silent garba. We thought of the concept a month ago and worked towards it. Since there are so many issues regarding timing and noise, we will switch to silent mode with headphones after 10 pm. Each headphone has three channels — one is completely Gujarati garba music, the second has Bollywood-garba fusion and third has trance and EDM. So, if you have had your fill of traditional garba fare, you could revel in the fusion tracks.” 
 
 
 
 Another club at Goregaon is also trying the silent   for the first time. Says organiser Ganesh Naidu, “I had attempted it in 2006, but it didn’t take off then as the headphones were neither advanced, nor was there much awareness about it. But now, people have taken to it in a big way.” The special headphones cost roughly `8,000 each and those who want to play have to pay rental charges as well. They get to choose out of three different genres. He explains, “The LED device will light up in a particular colour, depending on the channel you’ve opted to play. Since yesterday, the concept has also taken off on mobiles. In this case, you can use your own phones for the silent garba-dandiya. All you need is a radio frequency for it. The silent garba and dandiya is already seeing a packed house as it is perfect for working individuals, who are unable to participate in the dance celebrations by 7 pm or 8 pm.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Chetana Hitendra Upadhyay, a resident of Borivali, went across town from her home to try the silent dandiya trend. “Friends from Naigaon, Mira Road and Ghatkopar also dropped by and we loved it,” she starts. “Imagine grooving to your music, at your own pace. The best part is, we don’t disturb anyone and can go on till the wee hours. Yesterday, we danced till 2 am!” 
 Homemaker Mayuri Deewani also attended the silent variation and says, “It was so much better than the live orchestra as that can get too loud. Many players tend to get nausea and headaches due to the high-pitched music, but with the silent garba-dandiya, you can enjoy yourself without it having adverse impact on your health. I tried on the headphones and started with the typical Gujarati garba numbers like 'Pavli Layene Pavagad Gayi Thhi' and ' ' before moving on to Bollywood-fusion garba. It was so different and so much more fun. I feel we should have more such silent garbas and dandiyas in Mumbai; it will really rock.”
 
 
 
 
