AMRITSAR: Forced to replace the tallest tricolour thrice at the cost of lakhs of rupees within three weeks of it being unfurled, the   (AIT) has finally decided to not hoist the flag until it receives technical knowledge about its maintenance.

 It was an ambitious project that saw the huge national flag finally fluttering at the height of more than 350 feet, just 323 metres from the India-Pakistan border at Attari. The flag was unfurled at a height of 355 feet from the base — which is five feet high. An aviation light stands another 10 feet up, taking the total height of the structure to 365 feet. The flag is said to be visible from Lahore.
 
 The 80X120 feet (nearly 1,100 square yard) flag, weighing 125 kg, is made of parachute material. However, high speed winds and morning dew has forced the AIT to replace the flag, which costs Rs 1.25 lakh, thrice since it was inaugurated on March 5.
 
 “The flag was hoisted at such height without any technical report before called for first. I call it a crime and an insult to national flag which requires to be probed and responsibilities should be fixed against the persons involved with flag project,” AIT chairman Suresh Mahajan told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 But his is not first such case for AIT, which has so far replaced the national flag hoisted on the 170 feet tall flag post at Anand Amrit Park five times within 17 months of its installation.
 
 At present, the tallest national flag is hoisted at 293 feet in Ranchi.
 
 Saying that hoisting national flag was a sensitive issue, Mahajan said the flag often tore due to gusty winds, especially when the cloth was wet with overnight dew.
 
 Mahajan said AIT didn’t have any technical expertise to maintain the national flag at such a height. “I am going to write to the state government to maintain the national flag,” he said.
 
 The then   minister Anil Joshi had decided to install tallest national flag at  . In April 2016, he had laid the foundation stone to install the flag post.
 
 A senior   (BSF) official said that damaged flag brought disgrace to the nation, lowered the morale of troops and left bad impression on the visitors coming to the border area.
 
 
