THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state education sector has been witnessing migration of students from private CBSE ICSE schools to government aided schools for the last few years. In most such cases, the migration happens only from class five onwards.

 According to   report 2016, there was near 10 per cent increase in the enrolment of students in class six to nine in government and government-aided schools. When it comes to enrolment of students from class one to nine, the spurt in government and aided schools, compared to 2014, is eight per cent only.
 
 More than anything else, it is the almost-assured hundred per cent score for Continuing Evaluation (CE) and the scope of securing grace marks that attract students and their parents to government and aided schools, before class X. Unless the students follow the state syllabus, the chances for getting a Plus One seat in a govt aided school would be grim. Since the marks in qualifying course is also considered while preparing the entrance rank list, many students switch to state schools in class six, seven or eight.
 
 “Our focus is to improve the enrolment rate from class one onwards,“ said director of public instruction (DPI) K V  .According to him the reasons for the reverse migration are many . Some students opt for the government and aided schools after they study in English medium private schools which function without CBSE.ICSE affiliations. There is another set of students who opt for the govt aided schools while in highschool with an objective to score more marks in school final examination, he said.
 
 Of the 100 marks, students who study in govtaided schools get almost full marks for Continuing Evaluation (CE), which constitutes 20 per cent of the total marks. The avenues for scoring grace marks ranges from youth sports festival to student policing and NCC, NSS etc. Even without any grace mark, the academic score of govtaided students would be far above that of their counterparts in other streams as teachers are given instructions to give full marks in CE to all students.
 
 However, the marginal increase which the government schools witnessed in the last few years in enrolment of class one students is the result of the efforts made by a handful of schools to improve the academic and infrastructure quality. “Wherever the government schools were provided with facilities to improve English language skills, demand for admission went up. It's in this background that the government is taking steps to strengthen schools," Mohankumar said.
 
