NEW DELHI: Nonagenerian lawyer   has advised 
  , who has been issued bailable warrants 
  , to withdraw his   against judges and judiciary and tender unconditional apology.

 Known for his craftsmenship in conducting criminal cases, the 93-year-old Jethmalani has written a terse letter to Justice Karnan, who has been levelling unfounded and wild allegations against sitting and retired judges for nearly a year culminating in the contempt of court proceedings drawn against him by the SC. His failure to respond to summons made a seven-judge bench of the SC issue bailable arrest warrants against him.
 
 
 
  
 
 Jethmalani analysed the allegations so far levelled by Justice Karnan and said there is no escape route for him from the contempt proceedings even if he took lunacy as a ground for defence.
 
 "I am sorry to tell you that I am convinced you have lost your mind. Your 
  and some day that may be the only defence available to you though with no bright chance of success," he said and promised to put some sense into the judge's head if he chose to meet him.
 
 Jethmalani said: "As a senior member of the bar and living in the departure lounge of God's airport, I am advising you to withdraw every word that you have uttered and humbly pray for pardon for every stupid action you have so far indulged in. If you do not know the enormity of your madness do meet me and I might put some sense in your head."
 
 Instead of appearing before the SC, justice Karnan had defiantly disobeyed the summons and written a letter to the SC Registrar General requesting transfer of his case to Parliament or postponement of the hearing till the present CJI retired. He had also alleged that he was being targeted because he belonged to dalit community. SC had rejected the request and finding him to be defiant had last week issued bailable arrest warrants against him.
 
 Without giving any instance of his past work, Jethmalani said: "As a lawyer, I have worked all my life for the backward classes and I have great concern and sympathy for them. But you are out to cause the greatest damage to their interests."
 
 "Please listen to sensible advice of an old man," Jethmalani appealed being convinced that Justice Karnan faced the prospect of setting the dubious distinction of being the first HC judge to be arrested and produced before the SC on March 31.
 
