KOLKATA: It may sound incredulous but the Metro commuters in the city have been walking away with 500-600 smart tokens every day, making it extremely difficult for authorities to balance their numbers at various stations. This sometimes results in long queues at counters, particularly during peak hours as station staff search for tokens in collection bins or arrange to get them from other stations. While the tokens are of no use to people once they leave the stations, the loss is burning a hole in the Metro’s pocket as they cost Rs 18.98 each.

 “Earlier, we would carry out a census on the number of tokens on Sundays. Now, we count the numbers every morning before commercial services start. This is done to maintain a balance and ensure that tokens don’t run out at a particular station. Up till October, 2016, we were losing 800-900 tokens per day. With increased vigil at the RFID gates, we have succeeded in bringing down this number over the last few months. But there is a limit to how many persons we can post at the smart gates. We would like to appeal to commuters to return the tokens before leaving the station premises,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. 
 
 Metro has calculated that the daily number of token passengers is 3,00,000. There can be two ways through which tokens are lost. Even if one among 1,000 commuters purchases a token but decides against taking a ride, 300 tokens are   daily. The Metro also runs 300 services per day. Even if one person in each service decides to leave the station without depositing his or her token, an additional 300 are lost. Thus, the figure stands at 600 per day. Purchasing a token but not taking a ride due to a change of mind is still understandable. But how does a person leave the station without depositing a token after taking a ride? 
 
 Officials call the practice ‘tailgating’. This is adopted by many who purchase the lowest value token (Rs 5) and travel longer distances. At the smart gates, a ‘tailgater’ simply rushes behind the person in front and succeeds in crossing before the flaps close. According to officials, this is extremely difficult to spot, particularly during peak hours when thousands rush across the gates. 
 
 “In September, 2016, we procured 2,50,000 tokens to maintain our stocks. On an average, we require 70,000 tokens daily. Stations like Dum Dum require anything between 11,000 to 12,500 tokens every day. We have a sort of ‘token bank’ at the Park Street station from where stocks are distributed across the network. We have being maintaining more vigil even during the distribution process and all records are being maintained,” Banerjee said.
 
 
