Panaji: BJP’s Curchorem MLA and Goa tourism development corporation (GTDC) chairman Nilesh Cabral has said that chief minister Manohar Parrikar must set a deadline for ridding Goa free of drugs. “The chief minister should fix a timeframe by which he will make Goa drug-free on the same lines as he has announced to make Goa plastic and garbage free by 2018,” Cabral said, adding he felt more efforts need to be pumped in by the police department to tackle drug trade in the state. “The chief minister should take it as a challenge to make Goa free of drugs. Even though, I know he has made it clear that he will not be soft on the drug trade,” said Cabral. Cabral, however, pointed out that there have been no raids nabbing big dealers even as drug raids are being continuously conducted during the last few days. “Have you heard of any bigshot being arrested?” said Cabral. “When the election code of conduct was in force for assembly polls in January, police conducted regular seizures of drugs with the election commission overseeing the progress. They seized not just ganja but other party drugs such as MDMA, LSD, ecstacy. But after the elections, the raids stopped. Why was that? Did the drug trade cease to exist after the polls?” Cabral was also critical of the police department as he felt there has been no real progress made in arresting people who supplied drugs to the two South Indian tourists who died of drug overdose last month. “The forensic reports of the two proved that both had consumed drugs and died of overdose,” said Cabral. “By now, the police should have nabbed the suppliers of drugs. What have they done so far?” said Cabral. Cabral said he is aware that Parrikar was serious about ending the drug problem. “But, the question is will the police act? The random raids over the the last few days were insignificant as the narcotic that was seized was mostly ganja. Does anybody get an overdose on ganja?” said Cabral. Cabral said all MLAs including BJP’s alliance partners are opposed to drugs. “In our legislature meetings, whenever the issue is taken up for discussion, everyone vehemently opposes drugs,” said Cabral, adding that the onus lies on police to act.