Kolkata: The ongoing debate over medical negligence and hospitals’ and doctors’ culpability seems to have taken its toll on private healthcare facilities, with doctors across several corporate hospitals in Kolkata going on leave. Bed occupancy, too, has dropped in some of the leading hospitals over the last fortnight.

 Doctors with families do go on leave during this time of the year, when several schools have their term breaks, and this also has an impact on bed occupancy and the number of planned surgeries. But this time, agree hospitals, the number of doctors going on leave is more than normal. The dip in planned surgeries, too, is more pronounced, say hospital managements.
 
 As many as 10% of doctors on roll   — now under the scanner for two allegations of medical negligence — have been on leave since last week. It won’t be till mid-April that the hospital will have a full strength of doctors. Medica’s bed occupancy has dropped to 85% over the last ten days. 
 
 “Doctors are sometimes scared of taking on critical cases. Some have advanced their leave and the rest have extended theirs. They obviously prefer a break rather than risk their reputation. Thankfully, it hasn’t affected our services,” said  , critical care head at Medica.
 
 Bed occupancy has fallen to around 70% at   ever since the medical negligence row erupted. While doctors have not taken leave, many are shying away from critical cases. “They are sceptical of accepting 50-50 cases for obvious reasons. Even two months ago, few would have thought twice before taking them on,” a spokesperson said.
 
 At another corporate hospital off EM Bypass, bed occupancy had dropped by 25% last week, but has picked up ever since. But the hospital is still grappling with the absence of a dozen doctors who left for vacations earlier this month. “At least half of these doctors handle critical cases which have a low survival rate. Now, they are apprehensive of being held responsible for deaths which are perhaps unavoidable. So, they have taken the only exit route open to them,” said an official of the hospital.
 
 At Medica, planned surgeries have dropped by 40% since the beginning of March. It has been partly triggered by the absence of surgeons. But the authorities also point to the vacation season and scare among patients. “Generally, optional surgeries are pushed back at this time of the year. But this time, there is an apprehension about negligence and wrong treatment. Now, doctors are explaining the risk involved in surgeries in greater detail. It is scaring away patients in many cases,” said Kar.
 
 Bed occupancy at   has dropped by about 20%. “It has been slowly improving. But we are fortunate to have all our doctors working,” said Rupak Barua, CEO.  , too, has suffered a 10% drop in occupancy over the last fortnight. Several doctors are scheduled to go on leave in April. “So far as admissions are concerned, this is a lean period. Occupancy usually drops to 65% in March, but this time it has nosedived to 55%,” said a spokesperson.
 
 “With bed occupancy dropping, it will be tough for hospitals to sustain with dropping profits if the situation doesn’t change for the better over the next few weeks,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. 
 
