MOHALI: The office of the traffic adviser ( ) has conducted a study on the reason behind accidents in Mohali and has identified 21 accident-prone spots.
The death zones are Phase 8 industrial area towards Radha Swami chowk, Phase 7 industrial area towards Spice Chowk, Phase 6 new bus stand towards   barrier, Phase 35 light point,   and   and SohanaLakhnaur Road.
 
 The traffic advisor,  , and his student   conducted the study , which showed an increase in accidents. The number of pedestrians and cyclists killed in mishaps shot from 38% in 2013 to 56% in 2015, the study revealed.
 
 As many as 16 accidents happened between 9pm and noon between 2013 and 2015.During midnight to 3 am, 12 people died between 2013 and 2015 in road mishaps, the study said.
 
 The findings revealed that pedestrians and bicyclists were most vulnerable on Mohali roads. Over 50% per cent of the victims were pedestrians and bicyclists.The traffic police records corroborates the findings.
 
 Official data available with Asija revealed that 25 people were killed in 24 accidents in 2015 and out of these 25, eight were pedestrians and six of them were bicyclists. Similarly in 2014, out of 25 victims, five were pedestrians and seven were bi cyclists. “Car drivers and truckers are the main culprits as they cruise at very high speeds thinking that these roads are racing tracks,“ said Asija.
 
 Car and truck collisions contributed to 71% of the crashes in Mohali city in the last 3 years. Fifty-three per cent of crashes were caused by reckless car drivers, mentioned the study .
 
 Traffic from Balongi barrier to Phase 11-sector 66Phase 9 Industrial Area Intersection, this particular road corridor has caused 19 of 73 road accidents between 2013 and 2015.
 
 “We have also identified the accident zones. Besides the study by the traffic adviser on various parameters also include the flow of traffic, rush hour or peak hours on the roads, length and breadth of the motorway , traffic junction presence, number of accidents on these roads, presence of streetlights,“ said SSP KS Chahal.
 
 The study lists some solutions like installation of speed-calming devices to slow down the speed of vehicles.The traffic adviser wants safe and efficient non-motorized transport infrastructure to be constructed in the city.
 
 Another solution envisages that phasing and synchronization of traffic lights according to the volume of traffic. It also proposes timers to be installed at the intersections to avoid the signal jumping. There is also a demand to install globalstandard road markings and signages to guide pedestrians and motorists.
 
