Election has always been one of the toughest assignments of police, both in terms of maintaining law and order and making people feel confident to come out and vote. And as   get ready to elect a new House to look after their causes, commissioner of police   tells TOI’s   that his department is poll-ready and personnel will be out on the roads in huge numbers to help people vote peacefully

 
 
 
 We have made all preparations to ensure that everyone can cast his or her vote without being afraid of anyone. The police will be out in large numbers, not only to help the voters but also to tackle any kind of eventuality. In the run-up to the civic polls, we did a thorough assessment of criminal cases during the past elections. On its basis, we have made our plan to take preventive actions. As part of this, people with criminal background were warned not to create any problem. And if they had any problem, they could contact the police. We also ensured massive patrolling to increase public contacts to send across the message that everyone should vote fearlessly. And if there’s any problem, the police would be out there for all sorts of assistance.
 
 
 
 
 The main aim was to show the presence of the police on the roads. This instils confidence in people, especially the voters so that they should not feel insecure and are not afraid of anybody.
 
 
 
 
 We have identified 57 sensitive and hypersensitive zones in the city. We will be providing additional personnel, such as the striking force and riot control police, there. I have also taken stock of such zones in the city and given the necessary instructions about bandobast. We are ready to respond to any kind of eventuality. Police bandobast is needed in large numbers at places with a huge voter base of different castes or communities. There could be instances like stone pelting at such places, while candidates with criminal records in the past could be contesting elections from such wards. Some places have been earmarked as sensitive even because there are too many polling booths at one place, which can create a rush of voters after 3pm.
 
 
 
 
 People should exercise their franchise early in the morning, considering that they will have to cast their votes to four candidates. This would take more time. In has been observed in the past that people generally arrive for voting at the polling stations after 3pm. I have also appealed to the police personnel to cast their votes early. For those who would be deployed away from their wards, we have arranged the facility of postal ballots. We have sought nearly 1,600 postal ballet forms for our personnel.
 
 
 
 
 No. We do not find it necessary. Police personnel will already be deployed in and around the polling stations in large number. If someone is facing any kind of problem, he or she can always contact the police. Apart from the police, the polling centres will also have the booths in charge and the returning officers. Keeping this in mind, we have not thought of setting up a separate table for assisting the voters.
 
 
 
 
 People can always contact the police. We will take strict action against people who are found either distributing or receiving cash. Apart from our phone numbers, we also have a WhatsApp number. People can click a photo and send it to us. No one will be spared if he or she is found indulging into any kind of illegal activity.
 
 
 
 We have planned the bandobast for the counting day. The counting will take place in different parts of the city. The winning candidates will not be able to take up any victory procession after the elections. In the following days, even if the winning candidates plan victory processions, they will have to take our permission. We will grant the permission only if we find it suitable.
 
 
