MOHALI: Even as the police and paramilitary are on a pre-poll vigil to check  , three smugglers from   were arrested with a consignment of 160 kg raw gold near Bankarpur village of Mohali on Tuesday evening.

 DSP City Gagan Bhullar and SHO Sohana Pawan Kumar, deployed at a check point near Bankarpur village of Mohali stopped the white-coloured   which had halted thrice as it approached the naka.
 
 On checking the vehicle, they saw many bags on the rear seat of the car, which, the men in the vehicle claimed were their luggage and some const ruction material.
 
 It is learnt that the accused, Rakesh Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Surjit Singh, are from Hamirpur, and into smuggling for a long time.
 
 When the policemen started checking the bags, they found these filled with raw gold. The accused were apprehended as they were un able to produce any valid licence or bills to justify the consignment.
 
 According to police, 90 kg of gold can be extracted from the recovered material and its estimated value is Rs 21-25 crore.
 
 Police said the accused were coming from Delhi and were on their way to Hamirpur. Mohali SSP Kuldeep Chahal told TOI, “The ac cused were smuggling the gold for something big. More people are involved in the case. We are verifying the background and details provided by the accused.“
 
 Sources said the car documents were also fake. The vehicle seized was a Creta but the papers furnished were that of a Tata Safari.
 
 The SSP added, “This gold was supposed to be smuggled on Monday in the Tata Safari, but due to some reason, the smugglers accomplices left, leaving the trio to smuggle the yellow metal.“
 
 Sources said police are trying to obtain footage from the NHAI toll plaza to identify the accused who left on Monday after procuring the number of the SUV from the arrested trio.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have informed the incometax department and  . All the accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the excise Act, and will be produced before the local court on Wednesday.
 
