NEW DELHI: The government appointed   as   on Monday, choosing him over two other contenders senior to him.

 Patnaik, a 1985 batch IPS officer belonging to the AGMUT cadre, is currently special commissioner (adminis tration) in the Delhi Police.He replaces Alok Verma, who will be taking over as CBI director.
 
 Patnaik, the brains behind the record 25,000 promotions awarded to   over the past six months, had earlier launched the anti-stalking and anti-obscene call cells to ensure women's safety in the capital. He is expected to have one of the longest tenures as the city's police chief.
 
 There were two others in the race -Dharmendra Kumar, currently serving as additional DG in CISF and Deepak Mishra, who is additional DG with CRPF.Both Kumar and Mishra belong to the 1984 batch.
 
 Patnaik, sources said, was chosen over the two senior officers essentially on account of his “clean“ image and “blemishless“ record. Sources said the race had finally narrowed down to Patnaik and Kumar and the former was informally cleared as the new Delhi CP last Monday , a week before the formal announcement.
 
 Patnaik, from Odisha, is described by his contemporaries as a “straightforward, low-profile and soft-spoken officer“ who is meticulous in his work and prefers to follow the rule book. Patnaik has tackled sever al critical assignments of   and also had a deputation to the Special Protection Group (SPG). He has had several postings outside Delhi, having served in Puducherry and Mizoram. He was deputed to SPG during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure as Prime Minister. “Amulya Kumar Patnaik, IPS (AGMUT: 1985) has been appointed to the post of commissioner of police, Delhi from the date of actual as sumption of the charge, in place of Alok Kumar, IPS (AGMUT: 1979) who has been appointed as director, CBI, till further orders,“ an order issued by the government said.
 
 Patnaik was honoured with the police medal for distinguished service in 2009, when he was the joint commissioner (crime) in Delhi Police, and with the police medal for meritorious service in 2002.
 
 
