BHOPAL: For four days, schoolteachers in Tikamgarh and Panna have been digging pits for septic tanks and toilets in the Swachh campaign through an official order, but state school education minister   says he is “clueless” about it.

 The minister Friday said he has no idea about any such order. Responding to media queries on the sidelines of the Madhya Pradesh Madrasa board foundation day in Bhopal, Shah said: “I haven’t read the order. Whatever you are saying, I have no knowledge of it. Which order? If you ask me generally what teachers are supposed to do, then I would say they are only meant for teaching. About the rest, who has issued orders and where did it come from, I have no idea.” 
 
 Asked who, according to him, may have issued orders to ask teachers to go digging, Shah said: “Teachers are government servants, so I think district collectors might have issued it.” On whether he would take any action in this regard, he said his department will write to officials — “to whomsoever it may concern” — to quash the order.
 
 “We are already facing a dearth of teachers across the state, so teachers should not be given any additional work. I am personally against it because teachers are nation builders. They are not supposed to dig pits or even supervise it,” he added.
 
 The order, dated September 17, was issued by the district administrations of Tikamgarh and Panna and is signed by both collectors. It orders teachers to dig pits for construction of toilets and septic tanks in rural areas under the ‘Swachhata Hi Seva’ initiative.
 
 Tikamgarh teachers are not happy at being handed shovels, but refuse to speak to mediapersons. Madhya Pradesh Teachers’ Association secretary, Mukesh Sharma, demands that the order be revoked. “Are collectors aware of Indian Constitution? The state government must answer this first.   Act, high court and even Supreme Court guidelines say teachers should not be assigned any extra work other than election duty. I wonder why our government is watching as mute spectator,” he said, adding that they will write to the Centre about the “plight of teachers of Madhya Pradesh”. “Teachers in MP are being asked to do everything but teach in schools and get best results,” he alleged. 
 
