KOLHAPUR: The exit of minister of state for   Sadabhau   from the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana ( ) will better the poll prospects of party president and MP Raju Shetti at the next general elections, political analysts said on Sunday.

 The party’s council meeting a couple of weeks ago served a notice to Khot, seeking an explanation for his “lack of attention” to SSS workers. 
 
 Khot has decided to form a party in few months but a formal decision is likely in few days. The SSS council will take a final call on Khot next week.
 
 The agriculture minister is considered a strongman in the organisation and has clout in the farmer community in the region. 
 
 Political analyst Prakash Pawar said, “Khot failed on the expectations of the farmer community. Shetti is disappointed over Khot’s inability to address concerns of farmers, for which he was given the ministerial berth. Shetti’s image as a leader of the   will improve if Khot is removed from the party. But Shetti is in dilemma over whether to support the state government or not.”
 
 Shetti and Khot parted ways with Sharad Joshi’s Shetkari Sanghatana over 15 years ago. The constant agitations by SSS for higher price for sugarcane resulted in the party creating a political base in south Maharashtra.
 
 The BJP has now made inroads where SSS was strong, as could be gauged from results of elections to local governing bodies.
 
 Pawar said since farmers from various parts of the country were uniting against the government, Shetti has a great chance of regaining lost ground. “In the next two years, farmers’ agitations will increase, which will boost Shetti’s political prospects. If Khot forms an outfit, he will not get much attention as he is being seen as one who has disappointed farmers by not addressing concerns such as loan waiver,” he said.
 
 Khot told TOI, “I have presented my view to the organisation. I will take a decision only after the committee appointed by the party takes a call. I am consulting those who helped me all these years.”
 
 
