Coimbatore: As part of the second death   of APJ Abdul  , many events were conducted in the city on Wednesday to remember the people’s president.

 More than 3,000 corporation and government school children took part in a drawing competition that was held by Arc Foundation, an NGO to mark Kalam’s death anniversary. Events like tree planting have been planned on Thursday.
 
 Praveen Kumar was excited to draw his hero- APJ Abdul Kalam as he had the privilege to meet him. Using sign language, the 14- year-old deaf and dumb boy explained what Kalam meant to him. 
 
 “I have read a lot of books about Kalam in the library, which has inspired me. He has contributed greatly to the field of education by teaching and helpful students,” Praveen says. Ilakkiyan S, another deaf and dumb student of Class 8 said that Kalam was his hero and his teachings meant a lot to him. 
 
 Also, an art contest under the theme ‘My Kalam My Tribute My Creation’ was held for people of all age groups at the Brookfields Mall on Wednesday.
 
 Further, on July 27, Dr Kalam Library, a library that promotes active learning techniques will be inaugurated at corporation SRP Ammani Ammal Girls Higher Secondary School by corporation commissioner Vijayakarthikeyan. Various tribute events will also be held at malls remembering Kalam and his contribution on Thursday.
 
 Speaking about the drawing contest, Aparna Aravind of Arc Foundation said, “We began this initiative because we wanted to bring out the talent of corporation students. While drawing competitions are held for all private school students, not even once it was held for corporation school students. The students were excited to show their creativity as they are inspired by Kalam’s life,” she said. The schools selected include 83 corporation and 17 government schools including two tribal schools. 
 
 Siruthuli, an environmental NGO is planning a mass plantation drive along with Anna University on Thursday. More than 7,500 saplings will be planted at the regional campus of the university located at Somayampalayam at ‘Kalam Vanam’.
 
 
