Director  , who launched his  , ‘An Unsuitable Boy’, last evening, had his friends from the industry come out in full support of him.  , one of his closest friends from the fraternity, accompanied by wife  , launched the book. SRK, who is known for his witticism, expressed his concern over the title, which he felt was not fit. Below are titles he suggested for his book.

 
 “I bet both his parents would vouch for this title. There are very few boys who sit down with their mothers at 3 in the night and discuss teleshopping. Even if he has attended a party, he comes back and tells her, ‘Mom suna hai woh teleshopping pe nayee cheez aayi hai who khareedte hain.’ 
 
 
 The Intelligent Boy: “This, I say, not in terms of his general knowledge or Wikipedia knowledge but he understands things and people. He knows what’s happening and I find that extremely gifted. He can understand people. There are very few people who can keep up conversations with me because I’m such a genius. I say that with utmost humility and modesty. The best conversations I’ve had are with him. Sometimes when I am alone, I call him up and say, ‘Let’s just talk.’ He is perhaps one of the most intelligent conversationalists.
 
 
 
 “This is a personal experience. I have an inability to express my feelings; I am oversensitive and complex. But I realised that the only person apart from my family who can give me the space or figure out how I am feeling has only been him. And it’s not just me. I have seen him being sensitive to everyone around. From the youngest of people – his team of ‘Student Of The Year’ – to the eldest of them all. And he can understand what’s happening in your heart, soul.”
 
 
 
 
 “And I say this with vehemence and conviction. And he’s brave not just in the unique sense. It’s difficult being unique, especially in our country, in the world we live in and the society that we have to face. And to achieve what he has done, with the gusto he has done it with, with the aplomb he has achieved, it is beyond the greatest of achievements. Because to be different, to be accepted and to be wild and free in this world is a special quality. I haven’t read the book and I don’t know how much of a difference comes out of it, but he is a different boy. And all of this put together, he makes for a very special boy.”
 
 
  “For me, he will remain the most beautiful boy I’ve ever seen. And I don’t say it because you’re supposed to say it when you’re attending an event like this. I’m extremely honoured; genuinely. There are different aspects. When I was young, I thought when you get an X amount of awards, I’ll make it. If I got an interview with so and so journalist, I’ve arrived. If I’m on the cover of a magazine – specific one – I’ve arrived. I believe, 25 years of work, and 51 years of age, I truly believe I’ve arrived because I have a full chapter in Karan’s book.”
  
  
