Theni: Amid acres of parched lands at Poomalaikundu village in Theni district is an oasis where nature reigns in its full glory. Here, vegetables grow all-round-the-year, thanks to Ambothi,60, a revolutionary farmer, who uses waste water from houses in the village to keep his land green and fertile. 

 Ambothi says it was his son, A Selvan, who came up with the idea to use waste water from homes, which is always available, to irrigate their one-acre land, after rearing of crops became difficult due to the failure of monsoons. “I decided to try growing crops with the water that is discharged from homes, water that is used for washing, bathing etc, but not toilet discharge,’’ says the farmer. 
 
 Five years ago, he convinced the villagers to allow him to transfer the grey water from their homes to his land, for which he laid a pipeline for a distance of about one kilometre. Ambothi spent about Rs 1lakh to lay the pipeline and construct two 20 x 20 foot tanks, which are 15 foot in depth, to store the water. The farmer uses water from about 450 houses in the village. 
 
 The water is collected in the two tanks, which fill up to the five foot mark every day. It is then then pumped with the help of an electric motor. “The water that flows out is clear as the sediments settle down,” he says.
 
 “I have been cultivating various crops, including tomato, brinjal, chilli, ladies’ finger and various types of gourds according on the season as water is not a problem for me. I have been been reaping better produce than earlier,’’says Ambothi, while adding that he uses fertilizers like potash only during the early stages of cultivation and that the use of chemicals is minimal. 
 
 Palanisamy, a villager, says that he had at first ridiculed the idea, but is now awestruck to see the results. “The vegetables grown here also appear to be more colourful and big,’’ says Palanisamy. Meanwhile, the people are also happy as the waste water is drained away from their homes daily, and they don’t have to bear the stench or suffer the menace of mosquito breeding.
 
 
