NAGPUR:   may scrap the railway underbridge (RuB) at Manish Nagar due to opposition from citizens whose houses are to acquired for building the structure. This is the first instance where Mahametro has buckled under pressure from citizens to drop an infrastructure project.

 Replying to a query during a press conference, Mahametro managing director Brijesh  , said, “Fourteen houses need to be acquired for the RuB. Most of the residents are senior citizens whose children live abroad. They are not ready to sell their houses. So, we have decided to shift the RuB to below the existing level crossing.”
 
 Dixit admitted that if the location was shifted, the height of the RuB will be reduced from the planned 4.5 metre to 3 metre. “Commercial vehicles will not be able to use the RuB and they will have to make a detour,” he said.
 
 A source in Mahametro said that residents living near the level crossing were opposing the shifting of the RuB. “It is possible that RuB may be dropped altogether,” he added.
 
 The decision to drop the structure defies all logic. Mahametro is not taking away the houses for free. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), which is acquiring the land on behalf of Mahametro, will pay twice the market rate to the affected residents. Mahametro can also opt to pay 2.5 times the market rate under ‘Buy with Consent’ rule. The structure will be used by Nagpurians for decades and not building it because of opposition from a few citizens is strange.
 
 Meanwhile, the rails for   from Russia have reached Mumbai port and will reach the city in three to four days. “These are head hardened rails that are not available in India. They require less maintenance and are therefore used in the viaduct,” Dixit said.
 
 Speaking on five dimensional building information modelling (5D BIM), being used by Mahametro for better execution of the project, Dixit said, “We are the first agency in India to use this software. This is internationally used for infrastructure projects.”
 
 Mahametro is using four softwares for this purpose.   is for 3D modelling, Primavira is for scheduling, SAP-ERP is for costing and RIB for integrating these three.
 
 “Our engineers daily enter data regarding progress made in construction of various structures. The senior officials are, thus, able to know whether the project is as per schedule. We have been able to achieve 40% progress overall and 80% in priority section because of 5D BIM,” Dixit further said.
 
