If the latest layering trend is to be believed, we all have really cold elbows – because the coats are coming off the shoulder, but staying on arms. Don’t blame the infamous Indian summer, but Demna Gvasalia of Balenciaga who sent his models kitted out in coming-off-the-shoulder jackets for Fall 2016. Off/White followed suit and the on-trend Rihanna adopted it for her Fenty x Puma line. Michael Kors actually introduced an off-the-shoulder coat. 

  
 
  But it was Kim ‘break the internet’ Kardashian-West who took the style to town. She made the switch from the cape style — where the jacket is draped across your shoulders — to the “undone” slouch, quicker than you can put on a jacket. Soon the   was doing it and the Hadids — Gigi and Bella — followed. Closer home, Priyanka Chopra,  , and Alia Bhatt have given this style a nod. 
 
  Vogue US termed it shrobing – a   quirk that involves peeling your coat off your shoulders so that it sits across your deltoids. The advanced version is shrugging where the outer layer hangs around the upper arm. The idea? It gives you a nonchalant air. In New York, the look has now got street cred.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Shrugging may render you immobilised from the elbow down, but it’s making waves in summer. You can try it with something interesting underneath – like a statement T-shirt, bralet or bandeau. 
 
  In an article in UK Vogue on the trend, its   features director Sarah Harris said: “There’s always appeal in a look that appears nonchalant and ‘thrown on’ which is what this is, although, of course, it takes a lot more prepping than if you just put your coat on properly.” The other advantage: it makes your neck look longer.
 
 
 
  1. It doesn’t work with every coat, the fabric has to be fluid. 
 
  2. Go hands-free. Ditch a bag and make use of the pockets. At best use a handbag. 
 
  3. If doing it in winter, wear a nice polo neck or turtleneck to drive away the cold. 
 
  4. For summer, shrugging is ideal. Use a tassle shrug and wear a spaghetti top or a bandeau underneath for visual interest. Don’t over accessorise. 
 
  5. Try it now. These trends are fickle and may reach saturation point very soon. Get on the shrobe wagon now, before it becomes ridiculous.
  
 
 
