HYDERABAD: These colonies won laurels from the   (GHMC) about three months back for being `models' in respect of greenery and cleanliness, but sadly the badly-damaged roads lying unrepaired for months due to civic authorities' apathy , rob them of their good name.
The residents said that with every spell of rain, roads are going from bad to worse. “For almost a year now, the roads in our colony have been in a pathetic condition.The broken roads are in urgent need of repair. The roads riddled with potholes make commuting a painful task,“ said S Nagaeshwar Rao, joint treasurer of  , adding that the situation is more or less the same in the nearby colonies like Gulmohar Park Colony .
 
 The residents of   too have a similar experience to narrate. They have not seen any repair to the battered roads in their colony for the past three years.
 
 “Crossing the stretch bet ween Botanical Garden Road and   in Sri Ram Nagar Colony has turned into a nightmare. The traffic is supposed to flow freely on the road, but because of heavy damage, vehicles move slowly , especially during the peak hours. As a result, we are forced to wait at least for 10 minutes to cross the stretch,“ said Sridhar Y, a resident of Gautami Enclave.
 
 He further added that after giving several complaints, the corporation officials assured that the repair work will be taken up in the next month or so.The residents of Mahodaya Enclave, Miyapur, also appeal to the civic authorities to repair their damaged roads. “On the stretch that passes from Miyapur X Roads towards Bolaram, there are two major waterlogging points-one near Naren Gardens and the other in front of the HDFC bank. The other day , after the overnight rain, my car almost drowned near Naren Gardens.The situation was so bad that it took me more than 45 minutes to cross less than one kilometre,“ said Rabin Bera, a resident of Mahodaya Enclave.
 
 If bad roads are major concern for all the three colonies, the ongoing development work near   mall is creating problems for residents of  . “Not even a day has passed without getting struck in the traffic jam on the stretch leading towards   Mall towards JNTU,“ said Siva Teja B, a daily commuter.
 
 The GHMC officials, on the other hand, said that major repair works in the zone cannot be taken up until next month.
 
 “Right now we are filling all the potholes in the zone and are repairing the damaged ro ads. Rest of them will be repaired in October, as there is no point in laying BT roads during rains. When it comes to stretches like Botanical Garden and the one near Forum Mall, not much can be done as flyover work is being carried out there,“ said D Hari Chandana, zonal commissioner, west zone, GHMC.
 
