AURANGABAD: Mayor Bapu Ghadamode on Saturday directed the civic body to conduct an inquiry and submit a report in ten days on alleged irregularities in contract allotted for water supply through tankers. The instruction came after a heated debate on the matter at the general body meet on Friday.

 BJP corporators   and Raj Wankhede alleged that the   (AMC) had manipulated the contract’s terms and conditions to favour a particular agency that has been supplying water to various localities in the city for the past 27 months. Over the period, the AMC allotted many contracts to the agency at a total cost of over Rs 3 crore. 
 
 Shinde said that the authorities also modified terms and conditions on a few occasions to restrict the entry of other contractors to avoid competition. When municipal officials came to know that a contractor facing criminal charges had applied for the contract they changed the rules to saying that those with criminal backgrounds were ineligible. Shinde said that this move reflects the officials’ ill intentions. 
 
 Apart from this, Shinde said that the municipal authorities awarded the contract under sections 67 (3) of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, 1949, which should be used only for emergencies. He alleged that the civic officials had used their power merely to favour the contractor. 
 
 Shinde said that the chosen contractor does not own enough water tankers and has still been allotted to supply water in Satara Devlai and other localities. He also alleged that the contractor had bribed the civic officials.
 
 Raj Wankhede said that the civic body should publish details of money spent on water tankers for the last three years. “It seems that the officials are hiding crucial information from the general body,” he said. 
 
 Civic chief   said that the contractor was roped in when the Aurangabad City Water utility Company Limited (ACWUCL) was handling the water supply system. The AMC had recently scrapped water distribution projects and taken control of the water supply system, but the same contractor is still supplying water tankers.
 
 Bakoria said that the contractor had offered competitive rates for the job that eventually saved public money. “But, we will carry out an inquiry and take action against those found guilty,” he said.
 
 
