PANAJI: More than 25 years since playing his last international   game,   has lost none of his swagger or his ability to make a point to devastating effect.
 
  The most destructive batsman of all time was in terrific form during a Leadership Summit at the   2017 in Goa, a place that reminded him of his home in Antigua, particularly the “coconut trees”, as he put it. For little more than an hour, he captivated the audience with his bold admissions and honest opinion, and when it was all over, he stepped out to a standing ovation from the capacity crowd.
  
  In-between, he was at his candid best, speaking on a host of topics, and was particularly candid speaking about Sunil Gavaskar, the other champion batsman who stood their ground when the red cherry was hurled at an unbelievable pace.
  
  “To be fair, I’ve always felt I was a lot privileged. (Other sports) like Formula One and 500-CC motorbike sports, they do daredevil stuff. Cricket is   stuff. Very soft.
  
  “There are much more dangerous activities in the world today than cricket. Cricket is all about having fun. Let’s not forget Sunny Gavaskar; that man scored 14 centuries against us, the most fearsome bowling attack. Let’s also say that he pretended that he was wearing that little skull cap. That couldn’t protect him from anything,” said Richards on Friday.
  
  The other Indian cricketer Richards spoke favourably about, not surprisingly, was  , particularly after the India captain gave the Australians as good as he got during the fiercely-contested Test series which concluded last month. Richards himself has never been fond of the Aussies – “very very rude”, in his words – and the man who intimidated rival bowlers with his style and swagger had a piece of advice for the world champions.
  
  “I have no regrets saying the Aussies can be very, very rude. There are times when they overstep their boundaries. One of the things, with the introduction of the Indian Premier League (IPL), a lot of these guys are coming to this part of the world to earn a living. If there is one advice I will give to these guys, ‘never try and curse the hand that helps to feed you’,” said Richards.
  
  Time permitting, Richards may even catch up on a game in the IPL, the cash-rich league that has given entertainment a new meaning and attracted families in big numbers to stadiums. The legend, known for his hard-hitting, could have been a blockbuster hit if the T20 variant existed during his time, and even now, aged 65, believes he could hit one or two over the ropes.
  
  “With those 65 yard boundaries, I can make a comeback. At my age I will be able to clear that. They are mickey mouse boundaries,” he said.
 
