NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The BJP-Shiv Sena seat-sharing talks for the upcoming BMC elections are in limbo even as chief minister   has advised party colleagues to be “positive“ towards the Sena and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has asked local `shakhas' to be ready for the polls minus the BJP.

 A BJP leader at the Centre familiar with the discussions said his party had laid down two conditions for an alliance: the Sena must acknowledge and respect the BJP's increased strength in the state after the 2014   and assembly polls and the recent local body elections across the state and agree to the BJP's insistence on a corruption-free BMC. “BJP is now the dominant political formation in Maharashtra. This has to be accepted and the terms of alliance have to be revised in BJP's favour,“ the leader said, adding that such an insistence translates into a demand for more seats than the Sena would be willing to give.
 
 “And in keeping with PM  's priorities, we have to ensure a corruption-free BMC. Fadnavis has even said this publicly. We expect the Sena to be on board completely on these two things,“ the leader said.
 
 There have been reports that while Fadnavis is keen on te at while Fadnavis is keen on teaming up with the Sena, the party's central leadership is wary of breaking bread with Matoshree following the Sena's virulent and non-stop attacks on the Modi government.
 
 However, the BJP leader dismissed the suggestion that the party's central leadership and Fadnavis have different viewpoints on the alliance. In fact, Fadnavis has publi cly stated that elimination of corruption is our priority. The Sena has been unfa ir to the PM, but that won't come in the way of an alliance if the Sena agrees to our two conditions,“ the leader said.
 
 A large section of Mumbai BJP workers want that the party should go solo for the BMC elections, it is learned.
 
 “A positive approach will help us finalise a poll pact with the Sena,“ Fadnavis said while addressing a meeting of senior BJP functionaries and guardian ministers at Varsha, the CM's official Malabar Hill residence, late Monday evening.
 
 But exasperated with BJP's hemming and hawing on the issue, Uddhav on Tuesday said seat distribution talks should be wrapped up “at the earliest.“
 
 “There is hardly any time left now. The poll alliance (with BJP) should be finalised before the BMC elections,“ he remarked sarcastically.
 
 Sena leaders Subhash Desai and Anil Desai recently held infor mal negotiations with BJP minister Chandrakant Patil on broad parameters to be drawn up for sharing of 227 seats in the corporation.
 
 However, the Sena has been left high and dry as the BJP hasn't yet come up with a formal seat-sharing proposal for civic polls to four major cities and zilla parishads in several parts of Maharashtra, it is learnt.
 
 The BJP-Sena spat too is showing no sign of ebbing. Mumbai BJP president Ashish Shelar has slammed Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray for backing “prorich“ measures such as rooftop eateries and open-all-throughthe-night pubs and restaurants in the city.
 
 Describing Aaditya as `naya hai' (the man is a greenhorn), Shelar said, “He can't think be yond pubs and parties.“ Sena vibhag pramukh Anil Parab riled Shelar for using harsh words against Aaditya.
 
 “Shelar is a frustrated man as he hasn't been inducted in the state council of ministers. He is saying all this only to embarrass CM Fadnavis,“ Parab said, adding, “Aaditya belongs to an illustrious dynasty .“
 
 Elections to the BMC and various other civic bodies in the state are to be held in February .The BJP has emerged as the most successful party in local body polls held across the state in four phases so far. Devendra Fadnavis led the BJP campaign in the local body elections, holding rallies across Maharashtra. Congress did well in Phase 3 of the polls.
 
 BMC poll dates likely to be declared today, code of conduct to come into force
 
 The State Election Commission led by bureaucrat J S Saharia is likely to declare the election schedule for 10 municipal corporations, including the Mumbai civic body, and 25 zilla parishads on Wednesday. The model code of conduct will come into force immediately after the announcement. Even as the SEC is in the process of finalising the actual election schedule, a senior BMC official said polling for the BMC may be held on February 20 or 23.
 
 “We are awaiting an official announcement from the SEC on Wednesday. As per our information, polling will be held on February 20 or 23. In 2012, polling was held on February 22,“ a senior BMC official said.
 
