BENGALURU: The Karnataka government will take control over the   and Dental Colleges of Karnataka ( ), deemed universities and minority colleges, and restrict them from conducting common entrance tests. The assembly passed a Bill to this effect on Thursday, to amend the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, 2006.

 “The government will have sole control over allotment of all medical and dental seats in the state, and the power to conduct common counselling even if private educational institutions disagree to the annual consensual agreement with the state government,“ medical education minister Sharan Prakash Patil told the assembly.
 
 The Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Amendment Bill, 2017, seeks to scrap all other entrance exams to professional courses, including Comed-K and private university exams. “Hitherto, Comed-K, deemed universities and minority colleges were conducting separate tests and counselling for their seats.Only counselling for government-quota seats was held by the government,“ Patil said.
 
 While the amendment covers all courses, the government will initially introduce the new Act for medical and dental courses, in the backdrop of the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test becoming mandatory. Though the amendment is being brought in to be in sync with NEET, that was rolled out last year, a source in the government feels it may not be a smooth run, given the fact that the private professional college cartel is mostly controlled by political leaders. The Centre recently announced “all kinds of medical institutes and even seats under the management quota must be submitted to the state government for counselling and common admission“.
 
 A senior IAS officer said: “The government's intention to take control of CET is unlikely to be smooth, given that private professional colleges will explore legal options.“
 
 
 
 
 The government withdrew a bill to accord university status to the Institute of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology in Bengaluru, after the opposition BJP raised strong apprehensions. Health minister K R   said he would re-introduce the Bill.
 
 
 
 
 Now on, every medical practitioner will have to renew registration by paying a prescribed fee to the  , once in five years.
 
 
 
 
 The   (Amendment) Bill was passed to increase the upper age limit to hold the office of vice-chancellor to 67 years.
 
