PANAJI: The   at Goa on Wednesday directed the   to consider the application filed by   (GGHPL) seeking renewal of licence for its   on the river Mandovi within 24 hours.

 The court has also allowed the prayer of the company which sought a direction to the state government to grant the temporary licence till the disposal of the petition.
 
 The GGHPL, a subsidiary of former Haryana minister Gopal Kanda’s MDLR Group, had filed a fresh petition for the renewal of licence of the offshore casino. 
 
 According to the petitioner, the government had failed to comply with the high court order of January 9 this year that directed the state to decide the application for renewal of licence in four weeks.
 
 If GGHPL’s licence is renewed by the state government, it will be the sixth offshore casino to operate on the Mandovi.
 
 Senior counsel S G Desai, who appeared for the petitioners, argued that the government failed to take action under the guise of model code of conduct even after producing an earlier high court directive, which stated that the orders of the court are to be complied with notwithstanding the code of conduct or announcement of elections.
 
 While stating that it is inclined to grant the prayers of the GGHPL, a division bench comprising justices Anoop V Mohta and C V Bhadang observed that the order should be complied within 24 hours, as the statement is also made by the advocate general that except the “model code of conduct” question there is no other objection and as the petitioner is otherwise entitled for renewal of the licence in question.
 
 Under secretary (home), Neetal Amonkar, in the affidavit filed on Wednesday, had sought additional time of at least eight weeks with effect from March 16, when model code of conduct will be lifted, to take a final decision. 
 
 She stated that due to the code of conduct no policy decision or major administrative decision can be taken by the government. Also, the government’s request to the election commission to relax the code of conduct, was not considered.
 
 As the government had failed to decide on the application for the renewal of the offshore casino licence despite paying Rs 44.5 crore in annual recurring fees from September 2011 to September 2016, the GGHPL approached the high court seeking direction to the government to renew the licence.
 
