MOHALI: Relaying of   will be a costly affair. The Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), New Delhi, and Punjab   preliminary inquiry suggests that the road cannot be repaired and relaying will cost the state approximately Rs 150 crore.

 Built at a cost of Rs 15 crore during the Akali-BJP regime, the road came under the scanner after it developed cracks and potholes causing fatal accidents. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder  , on September 26, constituted a four-member committee to suggest urgent remedial measures for the severely-damaged road, which was already under the Vigilance Bureau lens.
 
 Earlier, the vigilance team took the road samples and found foundation faulty as it was laid on soft soil or clay soil, which, in engineering, is called black cotton soil. The samples were sent for examination to laboratories.
 
 A team of Central Road Research Institute is also assisting the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to find measures for repairing the road. GMADA chief administrator   said, “CRRI suggested that we cannot repair the road through patchwork. The road will have to be re-laid, for which Rs 100 to Rs 150 crore will be needed. The road layers will have to be scalped and fresh foundation made to give strength after calculating the load it can carry and another layer laid to cover black cotton soil.”
 
 Bhagat said he had also sought for the constitution of a team for repair work, after which the Punjab government constituted a four-member committee.
 
 Roads and highway expert at   (PEC) prof Umesh Sharma said, “While designing a highway, the main parameters to be studied are the load to be carried and the testing of the soil to give proper strength and layering for stability. Generally, it has been observed that contractors skip the foundation or we can say lowest three layers, which is the major cause of damage to a road.”
 
 The 200-ft-wide road, leading to Chandigarh International Airport in Mohali, has claimed many lives and become virtually non-motorable in less than two years of construction. GMADA has already closed the entire six-km stretch from Airport Chowk to Landran-Banur Road T-Point, following a series of fatal accidents and after finding the road to be beyond repair.
 
 The road, one of the major projects undertaken by the tainted former chief engineer of GMADA, Surinder Pal Singh, alias Pehalwan, is at the centre of a technical investigation by the Central Road Research Institute. Pehalwan is at present behind bars in cases of corruption and disproportionate assets.
 
