PUNE: A sizable number of city girls are getting married early in life, making them vulnerable to unplanned pregnancies and  .

 In all, 2,261 girls in the age group of 15 to 19 years were found to have consummated their marriage and 1,251 of them had also become mothers in 2016, according to the   (PMC) yearly family survey.
 
 A similar survey carried out by a Pune-based   (NGO) in 2015 also pointed out that 71% of the surveyed girls -- mainly from the city’s lower socio-economic strata -- were married before they attained 18 years, the lowest age for a legally valid marriage.
 
 “The PMC’s report debunks the misconception that early marriages take place only in rural areas. The survey underlines the fact that substantial number of city girls from lower socio economic strata gets married early, which makes them vulnerable to a host of health issues later on in life. Marriage at a young age— often in the absence of physical and emotional maturity — undermines the ability of young women to take informed decisions about their lives,” said health activist Sanjeev Dabhade.
 
 Early marriage has far-reaching implications for women. It curtails their educational opportunities, affects their health and makes them more vulnerable to domestic violence.
 
 Sharing the view, a gynaecologist of a state-run Sassoon General Hospital said, “Spacing and delaying first child birth is crucial for woman’s health if she is married early in life but due to lower utilisation of contraceptive the first birth takes place soon after marriage which puts them at higher risk of pregnancy-related complications. Besides, in many cases, second birth of the child takes place soon after the first birth. The interval of a minimum three years is not maintained.”
 
 Besides, these girls fail to get the adequate medical care as quality of health services at the civic-run urban primary health centres is poor.
 
 “Civic-run health centres located close to the city's slums hardly make much of a difference to the lives of these girls. Besides, linkages between civic-run primary health centres and secondary health facilities are poor. This is also the reason why many poor families are forced to go to private hospitals and incur huge healthcare expenses that eventually traps them in a vicious cycle of poverty,” said community health expert Ashok Dayalchand of the Institute of Health Management, Pachod, an NGO.
 
 “The phenomenon of early marriages is mainly seen in new slums that have sprung up in city’s fringe areas. The prevalence of early marriage is much lower in the city’s older slums where families have been living for many years. Because people living in the new slums are mainly those who have migrated from rural areas and are marginalised, the prevalence of early marriage is very high,” added Dayalchand.
 
 Anjali Sabane, acting head of the PMC’s health department, said, “The PMC’s family survey was mainly carried out in the lower socio economic strata and through it we aim to identify pregnant woman who have not enrolled with the public hospitals for ante-natal care and also infants who could not avail of the benefits of immunisation.”
 
