THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A thousand schools will be upgraded to international standards as part of `Save General Education Campaign' launched by chief minister   at the   at   near here on Friday. The campaign will aim to improve the academic and infrastructure facilities in the schools, said the chief minister. As per the master plan prepared by the education department, computer labs which can be later converted into language labs will be set up in all the schools.

 The government will allot Rs 5 crore each to 140 high schools, Rs 2 crore each to 220 higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools and Rs 1 crore each to 640 lower primary and upper primary schools as part of the initiative that would upgrade them to centres of excellence.
 
 The government will construct children's parks in all the lower primary and upper primary schools covered by the campaign. Autism parks for disabled students would also be set up in all the 14 districts. A plastic-free and drug free green campus will be another focus of the campaign.
 
 “Secular democratic education is the culture of the state. Public participation will help the campaign. In one year, all class higher secondary classes will be converted into hitech ones, followed by high school and low primary and upper primary classes,“ said education minister  . More than 45,000 classrooms from Class VIII to Class XII in government and aided schools will be converted to smart classrooms, as part of the  .
 
 Each of the classrooms will get a laptop, LCD projector, white board and broadband internet connection.
 
 They would be installed under the general education department's IT@School project. The tenders for the work have already been issued to Keltron. The digital contents for teaching science, maths, social science and English are being prepared by education department. The government plans to seek help from parent teachers' associations, alumni associations and school development committees, if more funds are required for the project.
 
