Nagpur: Deepak Kesarkar, minister of state home (rural), feels the Naxalism issue in Maharashtra is only a passive one as it is mostly an extension of the rebel movement in the neighbouring states. The minister was in the city on Thursday to meet the C-60 jawans from Gadchiroli who had sustained injuries in a powerful blast on Koti-Hemalkasa road on Wednesday. Kesarkar shares with TOI how social engineering can make tribal population in Gadchiroli shun   movement.

 Excerpts from an interview ...
 
 Q. What is your view on the latest Naxalite attack in Gadchiroli?
 
 A. The 20 personnel were travelling together when the attack took place and they were fortunate enough to be saved. We need to procure modern equipment and technologies like land radars that can detect underground explosives. The Naxalite activity in Maharashtra is passive as compared to the movement in the neighbouring states. In Maharashtra, the movement basically depends on cadres brought from other states. The Naxalite leaders drag children into the movement. I intend to visit Gadchiroli once every fortnight to boost the morale of the personnel and government machineries working there. 
 
 Q. What is the current input regarding Naxalism in the state?
 
 A. The implementation of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act or PESA has paved way for substantially increasing income-levels at the village level through various government schemes. This has shifted the interest of the local population away from Naxalism. The population is no more keen to join the movement. Naxalites are now recruiting misguided youngsters and students from neighbouring states to keep the momentum going in Maharashtra. We are appealing to the Naxalites to surrender as it is the best option available to them now. The government is also offering them sops so that they return to the mainstream.
 
 Q. What is the plausible solution to curb Naxalism in Maharashtra?
 
 A. Central government has been floating various schemes to counter the challenges thrown by Naxalism. We need better communications between the affected states. Various agencies are involved in implementing social engineering for tribal population. The tribal community is being promoted at various levels. Local resources, like the bamboo and mahua, are also being mobilized more than ever. Employment opportunities are being made available on different fronts too. The proposed steel plant at Surjagarh would generate around 10,000 jobs. Infrastructure like good road network is also being developed in the affected regions. 
 
 Q. Are the efforts bringing about any positive change?
 
 A. The effects of social engineering are visible. There is also a change in the attitude of the government as it is posting good and young officers in the affected areas, a paradigm shift when compared to the stand taken by previous governments. Many DySP or SDPO rank officers are starting their career from Gadchiroli. There are several other initiatives which have started bearing fruits.
 
 
