Tech fests have been quite common in colleges, but the one conducted by the students recently at Lakkidi, near Palakkad, was indeed unique. Titled  , the fest was a tribute to the deceased student,   of Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre, Thrissur.

 The fest saw the active participation of Jishnu’s friends and well-wishers from the college and a few other institutions such as Jyothi Engineering College and Al-Ameen Engineering College. 
 Sooraj Bhaskar, a third year B Tech student from Nehru College says, “Jishnu was a brilliant student and he had a lot of aspirations.   was the name of the company he had envisioned for himself and hence we decided to name the event after that.”
 
  With around 100 to 200 students working behind the fest, the event was funded by the students themselves. “The fest was not held under any banner but it saw around 500 participants from different colleges,” adds Sooraj.
  Athul Jose, a fourth year Pharmacy student, says that the tech fest started off after Jishnu’s friends and classmates lighted candles in his memory, and everyone present reminisced about the ambitious student that he was.
 
  The competitions were categorised into Jishnu’s World, Out of Box, Machine World and Innovative Corner. The highlights of Commos was Robo war and Robo soccer. Competitions for the best project, best short film, paper presentation and treasure hunt were also held.
 Shinil Nath, another student coordinator says that their aim was to promote peers with talent. As a person, who knew Jishnu well, he adds, “He was a visionary, and there were so many of his plans waiting to get materialised. We wanted to do whatever possible to make this event a melting pot of talent and skills that would remind everyone of his finesse.”
 
 Athul is elated with the response they have got, and adds, “Jishnu would have been happy to watch this from somewhere up above. Jishnu’s parents and brother Sreejith were very keen to extend whatever support they could. It was the first time after many months that we saw a smile on their face, and it was really heartening.”
 The cash prices in the event extended up to `10,000 for each competition and it was completely pooled in by the students voluntarily. “There was no compulsion on how much one should give,” Atul says. Despite having to face hurdles on the way, he is determined that the fest should not be confined at the primary level. “We plan to take this initiative to the next level with more participation and better entries. We also have plans to conduct a football tournament, Jishnu blood donation camp, and also support mentally challenged people; all in the name of our friend Jishnu Pranoy,” he signs off.
 
