The first thing that strikes us on entering Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s office is an old cupboard full of books — English, Hindi, translations… And then we notice the small, framed pictures of famous film personalities —  , Guru Dutt… It’s a minimalistically done-up place with no frills — almost a reflection of the man we are about to interview. The next hour-and-a-half wheezes by, as we unmask the actor. Excerpts... 

 
  
 I have known Rahul since his Parzania days. We had first discussed 'Raees' around four years ago, but back then, he wanted to make it on a small scale. One thing led to another and he approached   and Ritesh Sidhwani’s Excel Entertainment. They liked the script and agreed to come on board as co-producers. And then, Shah Rukh coming on board changed the track of the film.
 
 
 Never. I might have said that long ago. Maybe I did not have much knowledge of acting then. Aadmi toh grow karta hi hai. Abhi toh main khud dance kar raha hoon, with Tiger Shroff in an upcoming film. I’ve realised that an actor’s job is to complete the task assigned to him by the director. So, if I am given the task of dancing, I will do it. You need to satisfy the director. And 'Raees' structure is such — dance, drama, songs — our films are like operas. That said, I maintain I’m not comfortable dancing. 
 
 
 
 My satisfaction doesn’t matter all that much, when it comes to my job. That’s because an actor thinks only about his character, whereas the director thinks about the entire film. He has a vision, which the actor is a part of.
 
 
 If I start satisfying myself in every film, irrespective of the director’s demands, I will gradually slip into a comfort zone. And then, all my performances will be the same. If you listen to the director, your performance will be unique in each case, because he will exploit you according to the need of the subject. 
 
 
 
 It was a government school. The fee was 10 paise at that time. Nobody really bothered with us too much. Teacher ne padhaya, nahin padhaya, kisiko utna tension nahin tha. The roof would be of tin chawls, and during the monsoons, it would leak and we would get soaked. There was a Montessori school there too. We would see the students of that school and sigh. They were the kids of rich people. We couldn’t afford it. I studied till class 12 in that government school. After that, I went off to study Science in Haridwar. And then I shifted to Baroda to pursue MSc in microbiology. Actually, it was in Baroda where the acting bug bit me.
 
 
 
 I had a friend, who was into theatres. He introduced me to it. He took me to a production, and I felt like university, MSc was not my cup of tea, and I just dropped out after first year. I started off with Gujarati theatre. Then, one of my friends suggested that I should join NSD. So, I went. And that is actually where I learnt acting. We were taught about Stanislavski, Stella Adler, Michael Chekhov, Lee Strasberg… faculties came from all over the world. We were taught all kinds of theatre there. From Shakespearean to Realistic, from Moliere to Chekhov, we did it all. All the experiments that were being done in world theatre, we did them sitting right there in NSD. I think NSD is one of the biggest institution of the world. You get to stay in a hostel, you have a mess for the food, and on top of that, you are given scholarship from the central government. All you are required to do is immerse yourself in theatre. For three years, I acted in thousands of plays. In ’96, I graduated from NSD and started doing street plays in Delhi. From there, I would earn some money. For four years, I went on doing street plays and daily, we would do some 8-9 shows. At that time, advertising was not so big. So, brands would pay us young actors to promote their products. For example, there’s a merchant who wants to sell his mustard oil. So, he would commission one group of actors to write a skit around that mustard oil and act it out, so that the oil would get its desired publicity.
 
 
 
 It was never enough. We rented a place in Laxmi Nagar in Delhi. Five to six of us would stay in one room. We would sleep with one bedsheet covering us. I remember, during winters, we would keep fighting to get inside that one bedsheet because it was too small to cover us all. It was never enough, and that is why I had to come to Mumbai. It was a matter of ego also. National School Of drama ke graduate ho aap, aur khan eke laale padhe hue hai… So, in 2000 me I came to Mumbai.
 
 
 I came to do TV. But everything was turning glossy in TV. So, they started rejecting faces like ours. They would tell us, we cannot give you work because your skin colour is dark. Actually, you see, TV people would have to shoot an entire episode in one day and send it to the channel the same day. If they took us, they would have to arrange for extra baby-lights to account for our complexion, which would take up so much time. That is when I tried films. Films me wohi ek scene ki aukaat thi, to wahi karte rahe, saat saal tak. I did a lot of C-grade films too. Those films had titles like Andheri Raat Me Diya Tere Haath Me, Bindiya Maange Banduk… Gaur se dekhoke to shayad main unme dikh bhi jaaoon. After that, I thought that now I should get at least two scenes. So, I insisted to the casting directors that they must give me two scenes. And they stopped casting me at all! But thank God, after that, Peepli Live happened. It was a big and meaty role. Then came Patang. It was never released, but it did really good in the festival circuits. Roger Ebert, a known Hollywood critic, invited us for a small festival he organises in Illinois, of the world’s five best films. I went and stayed with him for eight days. He praised me a lot and also wrote about the film. In fact, I met Michael Shannon there too. Today, he is a big Hollywood star. At that time, nobody knew him! I met him and said the usual ‘hi, hello’. I did not even take a picture with him.
 So, around that time, around 2009, there was a movement slowly taking shape in the industry. Young directors, with new concepts and ideas, were trying to break the formulae, and do their kinds of films. There was Ashim Ahluwalia, Anurag Kashyap… they were trying their experiments. That is how the wave of realism entered the industry. And, that is how our demand started rising, even in commercial films. After that, Talaash and Kahaani happened, and Anurag took a huge risk with Gangs Of wasseypur, which paid off. Fir to, rest is history…
 
 
 
 No, I don’t feel good at all. But what can I do, google aisi cheez hai ki sab kuch sabke samne aa jata hai. All your good deeds, bad deeds…
 
 
 
 Not really. See, she will also have to understand ki that was my life before her. I was not doing any crime. I was just doing my job as an actor.
 
 
 
 No, actually, I don’t really believe in that saying. It might be true in cases of businessmen, but as an actor, acting is not just my job, or my dhandha, it’s my passion. At that point of time, I did those films because I had to survive. Zinda rahoonga tab to accha kaam karoonga, hai na?
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Shah Rukh Khan is a very hard-working actor. His process in front of the camera is that of an actor, not a star. It’s up to the director to exploit what Shah Rukh bhai has to offer. When I’d do a scene with him, I’d hope for it to go on and on. And it was not about the text, the dialogues. We just wanted to keep working on the subtext of the scene. Salman bhai’s style is that of a star; he doesn’t really try to get too deep into a scene. If it’s an okay take, it’s done. He won’t do it twice. Aamir, on the other hand, is a perfectionist. He will insist on each and every thing being just right.
 
 
 I have this quality that I can lose myself in a crowd. If you go around with an entourage — security, make-up guys, assistants, PRs — naturally, the public will be curious to know who this person is, jiske peechhe 10 aadmi chal rahe hain. A person’s real quality is when you are known to the entire world, but can still become a regular face in the crowd. 
 
 
 Osho had once said, ‘Act as if it is real life and live as if it is acting’. I try to follow that. Sometimes, I feel that I act more in my real life and when I am facing the camera, the real me is projected. There are so many people in this world who want to talk about themselves; Ki yaar, main aisa hoon… Koi sune toh! Par koi sunne wala nahin hota. An actor is blessed with that opportunity to show his real self to the world. So, when you are facing the camera, there are these moments that demand all your honesty; you are supposed to put everything you have got into that moment.
 
 
 We don’t even have a television at home, there’s nothing related to Bollywood or films. So, it’s very unlikely that my daughter will become an actress. Of course, if she wants, she can join the industry, but she will have to do it on her own. She will have to prove her worth, in whatever field she chooses as her career. There’s an attitude that baap star hai, toh beti toh ban hi jaayegi...it’s so easy! (sniggers). I don’t want her to have things so easy. In fact, personally, I don’t want her to join this industry. 
 
 
 I really think that (star) kids should not have it so easy, they should work for it. But in India, it has always been like that. From the Mughal era — ek ke baad ek raaj karte chale gaye 700 saal tak. And people kept accepting them as the badshahs, nobody cared whether or not they were worthy of the crown. It’s the same in our politics too, and the same in Bollywood. I will not go into the debate of whether this trend is right or wrong. I will just say that I don’t believe in it.
 
 
 You think Hollywood’s easy? You think   just went there one day and landed a role? No, she had her PR working on her brand there for a decade! I will not go to Hollywood just for the sake of having my name roll in the credits. If I do go to Hollywood someday, vahaan ke stars ki toh band baja doonga!
 
  
  
