HYDERABAD: Telangana electricity distribution companies have sought more time to submit new power tariff hike proposals for the next financial year. This would be the third time that power   have sought extension of time for submitting tariff hike proposals. 

 The two distribution companies,   and the  , sought extension of time till January 26 to finalise the tariff proposals.
 
 The Discoms submitted their annual revenue requirement (ARR) proposals on November 30, 2016, to the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) and sought from it one month time to submit the tariff proposals. On December 31, both Discoms once again requested another extension till January 18 for finalizing the proposals. "Now, we have asked another week's time to prepare and submit the proposals. The final tariff proposals will be presented to the ERC on January 26," said a senior official in the energy department. While submitting the ARR, the Discoms did not included the revenue deficit anticipated for the next financial year which includes power purchase cost, employee wages cost and transmission and distribution costs.
 
 The two Discoms have sought 31,930 crore revenue to ensure power supply in the ensuing year. The admission into Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) of the Central government has resulted in big savings to the Discoms which are anticipating a saving in the next year of 800 crore normally paid as interest on the loans taken by them. The state government has taken over 8,920 crore debt owned by Discoms and bear the interest on their own 
 
 "This will greatly change the revenue deficit and annual revenue requirement figures. Now, we will present the revised figures to the state government and based on the subsidy assured by the state government, the tariff hike will be decided," said a   official. The TRS government had sanctioned Rs 4,385 crore towards its subsidy to the power sector last financial year but are not sure yet as to the extent of subsidy this time.
 
 The Discoms submitted their annual revenue requirement (ARR) proposals on November 30, 2016, to the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) and sought from it one month time to submit the tariff proposals
 
