HYDERABAD: City Central Crime Station sleuths are all set to file a chargesheet against two builders, an advocate and two others in the Rs750 crore evacuee property land scam of Puppalaguda. The case of the CCS is that three of the accused fabricated the GPA of a dead person, who had migrated to Hyderabad from Pakistan at the time of partition, claimed 50 acres of land and sold it to the two builders.

 The case was booked based on the complaint lodged by IAS officer and then Ranga Reddy joint collector Rajat Kumar Saini in 2016.
 
 According to CCS assistant commissioner of police MSrinivasulu, the chargesheet will be filed against CR Lakshminarayana, an advocate, DK Jain, a former employee of the ministry of home affairs and a resident of New Delhi, Miriyala Narasimha, a resident of Balkampet and two builders, P Nanda Kumar and P  , promoters of Lakshmi Engineering & Construction company .
 
  “One Bhagawandas H Makhija, displaced during Partition, migrated to Hyderabad. He had a claim of 50 acres of evacuee land at Puppalaguda in Rajendranagar as he lost equal land in Pakistan. He could not process his request and died in 1995. Subsequently, Lakshminarayana, a city advocate, was informed by DK Jain, a senior accountant with  , about the pending claim. 
 
 The duo conspired and Lakshminarayana fabricated a GPA in 1996, a year after Makhija's death. Jain and Miriyala Narasimha then signed the fake GPA as witnesses. A claim was then filed with the chief commissioner of land administration in 1996. 
 
 The application was processed in 2001 after which the land was allotted to GPA holder Lakshminarayana,“ said ACP M Srinivasulu. However, then revenue principal secretary D C Rosaiah stayed the order of CCLA on the grounds that due procedure was not followed and ordered a probe.
 
 “While a stay is pending against the CCLA order, the property was sold to two builders, Nanda Kumar and Srikrishna, for Rs3 crore in 2005 by executing a sale agreement,“ he said. 
 
 Later, the revenue secretary confirmed the order of the CCLA but this was challenged in the HC in the form of a writ petition by then Ranga Reddy collector V Seshadri in 2006. In the judgment in 2016, the HC cancelled the allotment and ordered a probe. This was appealed by Lakshminarayana in the SC.
 
 “After the CCS booked a case, we investigated and found that the GAP is fake and arrested three accused Lakshminarayana, DK Jain and Narasimha. We have served notice under 41(a) of the Cr PC to the two builders and will file the chargesheet after Dasara vacation,“ Srinivasulu old TOI.
 
 The cops also recorded the statement of  , son of  , who testified the GPA his father had died a year before the date recorded on the GPA.
 
