CHENNAI: Over the next three months, the Indian team will play a total of 18 matches (3 Tests, 6 ODIs and 9 T20s) across all formats before embarking on the tour of South Africa in January 2018. There’s no way the team management can make  , the shining light of Indian cricket of late, play all those 18 games. The Baroda allrounder has to be given adequate rest before he leaves for South Africa and in that case the pace bowling allrounder’s slot can very well open up for some of the limited-overs games over the next couple of months. And one man who is capable of shaping up as a back-up for Pandya is Tamil Nadu’s  .

 He has been selected in the India ‘A’ side for all the five One-day matches against New Zealand ‘A’ and the selectors will definitely keep an eye on him. A couple of good performances may just open the India door for the 26-year-old, who has been one of the stars for   in recent years.
 
 Vijay Shankar, though, is looking to keep it simple. “Irrespective of whichever match I play, my preparations remain the same. The series against New Zealand ‘A’ is as important as any game I feature in. As an allrounder in the side, I don’t focus on just one aspect of the game. Improving my overall game is the only way forward,” Vijay Shankar told TOI on Monday.
 
 While Vijay follows Pandya’s game closely, he is happy to focus on his own game. “He (Pandya) has certainly been in top form across all formats and is a joy to watch. Our roles as seam-bowling allrounders may be similar for the teams we represent, but I am keen to concentrate on developing my own strengths,” Vijay Shankar said.
 
 While his immediate goal is doing well for India ‘A’, Vijay is equally keen to give a solid performance for Tamil Nadu. “I trained with the boys during our pre-season camp at Dehradun. Our Tamil Nadu team looks strong as we sport a good mix of youngsters and seniors. We had a great season last year where we made the Ranji semifinals and went on to perform well in the shorter formats too. We will definitely look to build on that performance,” he said.
 
 While Vijay will miss the season opener against Andhra due to his India ‘A’ commitments, he would be happy to lead the state side if an opportunity presents itself. “There are seniors in our side who can do the job. It 
 
