KOLKATA: Abandoned in a  , a   was rescued by a ragpicker on Wednesday and is now battling for life in the   (SNCU) of   and Hospital. Though left to die by the parents, doctors and nurses in the hospital are putting in all efforts to save the baby.

 Shyamali Mandal was at Dhapa dumping ground on Wednesday morning when she heard a faint cry. Looking for the source, she was shocked to find a baby lying in the filth. With the help of conservancy workers who live nearby, Mandal informed Pragati Maidan police station and officers took the baby to CNMCH.
 
 “The baby is around two to three days old. Born premature, his birth weight at 1.38kg is very low. He is susceptible to infection and unable to suckle and hence, has been put on IV fluid and antibiotics. Our doctors are doing their best to save the baby. So far, he is doing well,” said Dr P B Chakraborty, medical superintendent-cum-vice-principal, CNMCH.
 
 Once brought into the SNCU, nurses and attendants cleaned the baby without wasting a single moment and doctors started treatment immediately. Though no external injury was found, the biggest challenge for doctors now is to see that the baby does not develop any infection. 
 
 Doctors said the baby was born after 34 to 36 weeks of gestation, Babies born before 37 weeks are pre-term and are susceptible to infection. Additionally, this newborn was exposed to the dirt and filth in the dumping ground, making him even more susceptible to infections. Doctors have now put him on radiant warmers.
 
 Though mothers of other newborns in the hospital have volunteered to breast feed the baby, doctors are not allowing it because being pre-term, the boy has not developed the reflex to suckle and swallow.
 
 “Breast milk is very important for newborns. We will start giving him breast milk through Ryles tube in a few days. Once he develops the reflex to suckle and swallow, we will progress to feeding him though the mouth,” said Dr Saurabh Tiwari, one of the doctors involved in treating the newborn.
 
 “When all other newborns have their mothers or other family members, this one has none. How could the parents be so cruel to abandon a baby?” a nurse said.
 
 
