HYDERABAD: Come June, over 46,000 students pursing studies in state-owned schools in Hyderabad district will get new desks and reverse osmosis (RO) plants. The district administration will spend Rs 5 crore on manufacturing the desks.

 The Hyderabad district administration has taken up this initiative to provide better amenities to students pursuing academics in government schools.
 
 “After discussions with the   (DEO), Hyderabad on amenities to students on various occasions, the district administration has given priority to two major issues, including providing dual desks and installation of RO plants to provide potable water to the children,” Hyderabad collector   told TOI. 
 
 “In our findings, we found that over 60% schools do not have desks. As a result, thousands of students were facing major problems during rainy season. Though Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS & SB) is supplying water to the schools, due to odd water supply timings, most educational institutions are not in a position to store water,” the Hyderabad collector said. 
 
 In fact, at a few high schools dual desks were made available, but most of the schools were yet to get the furniture. Based on the requirement, we placed an order to procure 10,000 dual desks. The order to manufacture the desks was given to the  . The Hyderabad district administration will spend Rs 5 crore on manufacturing the desks. We will draw the money from   (CBF) for the purpose. We hope to keep the desks ready by the time schools reopen for the new academic year in June,” the collector added.
 
 Apart from desks, the schools would also get RO plants as only a few government educational institutions were having this facility. The RO plants would be sponsored either by banks, non-governmental organizations or individuals. “Our aim is to install an RO plant at every government school in Hyderabad district. We are working out modalities to allot the responsibility of installing RO plants either to reputed NGOs or any government organization. Soon, a decision will be taken in this regard to install them by June/July,” Rahul Bojja said. 
 
 Proposals of providing toilets, compound walls and construction of additional rooms were also in the pipeline, the collector added.
 
 The Hyderabad district administration will spend Rs 5 crore on manufacturing the desks. They will draw the money from crucial balanced fund . The desks should be ready by this academic year
 
