CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) on Sunday in its general body meeting formed a sub-committee to finalize the draft, publish and release the booklet on the heritage trees in the city, the documentation of which was done by the CTL and Chandigarh-based NGO Yuvsatta in the last two months.

 The booklet will be distributed in schools, colleges and libraries of the city. Also the governor, Punjab, and UT adminsitrator V P Singh Badnore will be invited to inaugurate heritage tree walks for residents and visitors. This was decided here at   in a meeting chaired by Prof Rajnish Wattas, co-founder of the group and former principal of   of Architecture. It was also decided that a walk in the botanical garden of Panjab University has been fixed during the first fortnight of the next month, which will be conducted by member, CTL group, Harsh Mitter. 
 
 Besides the meeting, a lecture on the trees of Himachal Pradesh was delivered by Mitter. The highlight of the day was the presentation on “Hill Trees of Himachal Pradesh” by Mitter. He explained to the members the basic information and features about the native/forest trees of the Shivalik hills and other zones of Himachal Pradesh found between 3,300ft to 6,600ft and then on the higher-ranges up to 10,500 ft and above.
 
 He familiarised the CTL members with the botanical and vernacular names of the trees and the characteristics of the most commonly known trees that we see as we drive along the hills. He laced the scientific information with anecdotal history and hilllores about these trees coupled with interesting local trivia about them.
 
 “Now, hardly a few of the once large forest tracts of the Varun, Nirgandi, Dhuri trees are left because of exploitation by pharmaceutical companies felled for commercial and their medicinal value, as well as for high quality timber. The native population of Kangra valley, therefore, does not allow the broad-round leaved Patthal trees to be cut as they are used for ceremonial meals,” said Mitter. 
 
 
