BATHINDA: Facing heat from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited ( ) for non-payment of electricity bills, the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board ( ) has initiated a move to recover dues from people across the state. Such is the zeal that the board authorities are working overtime to deal with the situation.

 Various waterworks in the state in urban and rural areas owe over Rs 300 crore to the PSPCL and the PWSSB is compiling details of bill money pending with people across the state. On Monday, at Malout town in Muktsar district the board started the move on the beat of drums to make defaulters pay arrears for using water and sewerage facilities under their “‘Dhol bajao bill ugraho” (beat the drum and collect the pending dues) drive. The move paid off on the first day as the authorities collected Rs 3.5 lakh whereas earlier it used to be around Rs 20,000 on an average.
 
 The PWSSB came in action mode after the PSPCL snapped power supply of waterworks and sewerage disposal in Malout on February 28. The board owes Rs 2.6 crore to the PSPCL and paid Rs 5 lakh on Monday morning to restore the power supply and assured them to clear the dues by March 31. The board has outstanding bills of Rs 6 crore against consumers in Malout.
 
 Board SDO   told TOI that, “The PSPCL had disconnected power supply to the waterworks on February 28 for non-payment of Rs 2.6 crore in bills. The board has dues of nearly Rs 6 crore towards 19,000 domestic and commercial users. It collects Rs 105 per month as water charges and the same amount for the sewerage facility. We started the ‘dhol bajao’ move on Monday to recover dues from the people and succeeded in collecting Rs 3.5 lakh. We have decided to continue the move till March 31.”
 
 Chief executive officer (CEO) of the board D K Tiwari said that , “Of the 165 towns in Punjab, the board runs facilities in 61 urban areas. Directions have been issued to our executive engineers in all these towns to arrange funds to pay the PSPCL and collect dues from consumers. The board is compiling details of how much money is to be paid to the PSPCL and the amount pending towards water and sewerage users across the state.”
 
