JAIPUR: The Central   (CGWB) has declared all 15 blocks in the city as ‘overexploited’. The groundwater extraction has gone up by 22% in the past five years, depleting the water table to   Still, there is little or no infrastructure to conserve rainwater flowing down the drains.

 Just few minutes of rain inundate the city roads but the precious water goes waste as the existing ‘storm water’ harvesting structures that were built to recharge the city’s groundwater are in dilapidated conditions.
 
 The civic bodies—Jaipur Municipal Corporation and Jaipur Development Authority—constructed storm water structures at 221 places in the city, including at Statue Circle and   where water-logging is a major problem. These structures are proving to be of no use as their inlets are choked with polythene, derbies and slush, thereby, preventing the rainwater from going down.
 
 The residents of Moti Dungri said that the harvesting structure has not only become defunct but has also been encroached upon by the street vendors. “People sitting at tea stalls throw waste in the inlet. Garbage has blocked the water inlet screens. The officials do not even remember when was it last cleaned or repaired. Water-logging continues here as it used to be in the past. If these structures are utilised properly, they can not only resolve the water accumulation problem but can also recharge the groundwater,” said Ashish Jain, a resident of Moti Dungri area.
 
 The civic bodies spent huge funds to build these structures with wells to store rainwater but the taxpayers’ money has all gone waste. In many areas, the filter pit has rusted away, while water inlet pipes have been filled with plastics and garbage.
 
 In Sanganer’s Ambedkar Colony, the filter pit is lying choked with plastic and the recharge shaft is filled with sand. Experts believe these structures require special maintenance every year for which the civic bodies should allocate dedicated funds to clean and repair them. “The civic bodies carry out cosmetic cleaning, which does not help. The maintenance of these structures requires huge cost, sometimes more than the construction cost of the structure,” said Vishnu Lahta, a member of the environment committee.
 
 While most of these structures are lying defunct, those in the VIP areas are in working conditions. Out of the three storm water structures built at the Jawahar Circle, two have been properly maintained. Similarly, the structures constructed behind the Raj Bhawan in the   area too are in good shape.
 
 The JDA engineers, nevertheless, claimed that maintenance of all the storm water harvesting structures was being done properly each year. In the absence of proper drains along these structures, the rainwater does not recede and results in water-logging. Also, the irresponsible residents throw garbage in the inlets,” said a JDA engineer, who wished not to be named.
 
