
 
  
 Bharti Singh has known Harsh Limbachiyaa for almost seven years — right from the time she first set her foot into the world of comedy. They have been part of each other’s professional rise as they grew stronger as a couple. While they are set to tie the knot soon, a date is yet to be zeroed in on. “My wedding date will either be November 30, December 3 or December 6. We will be deciding on a date as soon as Harsh gets free,” says television’s successful stand-up comic. The couple is all set for a pre-wedding shoot with all the three dates as options. “Once the date is fixed, I will circulate pictures from the photo shoot,” she adds.
 Not just the wedding date, even the venue is yet to be finalised. The comedienne, however, has her eyes fixed on the land of sun, sand and beaches — Goa.
 While a date and venue is still in progress, Bharti is clear about the wedding outfit. “I will wear a lehenga for the wedding and a gown for the reception. Harsh is yet to finalise his outfit. Woh toh wahi pehenega jo main kahoongi. Aakhir shaadi ke baad biwi ki hi chalti hai na. There will be around five pre-wedding functions, including bangle ceremony, haldi, mehndi, cocktail and a pool party. The reception will take place after the pheras,” she reveals. For their honeymoon, the couple plan to head to Europe.
 
 
  
  
 Naman Shaw and his soulmate Nehaa Mishra will fulfil their dream of having a winter wedding on November 23. However, the original idea was anything, but a big, fat Indian wedding. He says, “I wanted a court wedding, but I gave in to the wishes of my family, especially my enthusiastic brother, who has been stocking fancy drinks from duty-free shopping that he has done every time he went abroad! So now, it’s going to be a big fat North Indian wedding in Kolkata. My brother is handling everything for my big day. Nehaa and I have been waiting for winter as eagerly as the Game of Thrones’ characters, simply because the venue we have booked is a beautiful lakeside, which looks so serene, especially during the evenings.”
 The soon-to-wed couple is having a tough time finalising their wedding trousseau as they are busy going about the mandatory preparations. “Finalising the clothes is tough. Till now, we haven’t got the right lehenga. Not because lehenga is mehenga, but Nehaa wants it to be perfect,” he says.
 Giving us an insight into the gala event, he says, “The wedding is going to be an all-night affair, almost like a 7am-7pm shift. While it is easy for me as I am used to such shifts as actor, everyone else is going to be relying on chai swigs and energy drink shots to keep themselves up! Having done over 14-15 screen weddings now, I think I am quite well-versed with the rituals that I’d be able to correct the panditji if he slips up. Also, it will be a one-shot wedding unlike the reel one, where we take the saat pheras multiple times for that perfect shot and sometimes even with the body double! What’s heartwarming is that all our dear ones are going to be there on our big day. It’s going to be eventful, good times, hangover and dark circles guaranteed.” And what about the honeymoon, we ask. “We will begin planning that after the wedding — it’s going to be a honeymoon in Europe,” he signs off.
 
 
 
  
  
 Aashka Goradia will get married to her American beau Brent Goble, twice. She plans to have a white wedding on December 1 and a traditional Indian wedding on December 3. The couple had an engagement ceremony on July 27. The actress, who is currently in the US with her fiancé, lets us in on the plans. She says, “Preparations are on in full swing in Ahmedabad. My family is looking into every single detail, including the venue for the big day, stay for the guests, etc. My in-laws have booked their tickets for the wedding. Brent and I haven’t started shopping for the wedding trousseau yet, but the discussions on the designs for my in-laws’ clothes have already begun.” Sharing more details, she adds, “The wedding functions will span over three days with a white wedding, haldi, mehendi, sangeet followed by a traditional Indian wedding and reception.”
 Rather than opting for a conventional honeymoon, Aashka plans to take both her and Brent’s families along with them. “We are planning a family trip with my in-laws and close family to Rajasthan as it will be their first time in India,” is her parting shot.
 
 
 
