Kolkata: Lodged in a 10ftX10ft cell with two other inmates, a cement floor to lie on and an attached lavatory with no door, actor   spent a sleepless first night at  , said jail sources.

 Accused of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for the death of model   — who would have turned 28 on Wednesday —   was arrested from Kasba in the early hours of Friday. After spending three nights in police lock-up, an Alipore court sent him to Presidency jail on Monday. He is likely to stay here till July 24.
 
 Brought to the jail around 8.30pm on Monday, a jail source said Chatterjee was initially kept at the Amdani Ward, with around 40 other prisoners brought from different courts. But as people started crowding around him, many trying to shake hands or rub shoulders with him, the authorities shifted him to Ward No. 5 with two others.
 
 “He hasn’t spoken much. He was given the usual jail food of two chapatis, dal and a vegetable at night. He took a bite of the chapati but left most of the food untouched. We found him sitting awake in a corner of the cell for the most part of the night,” said the source.
 
 Known as a late riser, Chatterjee reportedly dozed off a little around morning, but was woken up at 5.30am sharp following jail norms, to attend the morning count. “He seemed shaken when he was asked to sit tight with another prisoner as the warden performed the routine prisoner count. Later he was offered tea, which he drank, but he skipped breakfast — a piece of bread and milk,” said the source.
 
 His mother went to meet him in the afternoon with a set of new clothes and some home-made food, but she was not allowed to meet him. “At jail, undertrial prisoners are allowed to meet their family only once a week. For Chatterjee, the scheduled date is Friday, prior to which his parents will not be able to meet him,” said the source.
 
 Chatterjee is allowed to wear normal clothes (the striped uniform we see in movies is only for convicts) and he can buy food, soft drinks and mineral water from the canteen if his relatives pay for the items in advance.
 
