JAIPUR: The 9th edition of the ‘India Stonemart’ will be held at the Sitapura based Jaipur Exhibition & Convention Centre ( ) from February 2-5. The State Industries Minister   Shekhawat will inaugurate the mart on the theme “Stone for Sustainability”.
 
 The fair has been organised by the Centre for Development of Stones (CDOS) in collaboration with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). Rajasthan State Industrial Development & Investment Corporation Ltd. (RIICO) is the principal sponsor of the event.
  
 India   is the largest international exposition on stone industry in India showcasing the world of natural dimensional stones, ancillary products and services comprehensively. The event will bring together various stakeholders of the stone industry, like domestic and overseas producers, exporters and importers, consumers and buyers, experts, technology providers, architects, builders, developers, corporates, etc. under a single umbrella.
  
 The exposition will see participation from India and abroad. As many as 156 overseas exhibitors from Afghanistan, China, Croatia, Greece, Iran, Italy, Spain, Turkey, UAE, and Oman will be participating at the fair. Turkey, China, Italy and Iran will be setting up country specific pavilion at the mart. Similarly from India, there will be around 300 exhibitors from various states will take part. More than 1500 overseas visitors and 25,000 trade visitors are expected to attend the fair.
  
 A special feature during the Stonemart will be the 3-day ‘Jaipur Architecture Festival’ from February 2 - 4. To be held concurrently, this festival will be a platform for new ideas, discussions and exploration. All India Stone Architectural Awards (AISAA) will also be given away during India Stonemart. The awards are based for outstanding projects on the basis of their concepts and technical procedures which correspond to an idea of ‘creativity and excellence’ for the use of natural stones from India.
  
 This year the special attractions of the Mart will be the pavilion of diamond tool manufactures, exclusive display of handicrafts at the Shilpgram as well as the display of stone machinery and heavy earthmoving equipment.
 
