HATHIGISHA VILLAGE,   BLOCK: Women played an active role in the 1967  . Of the 11 demonstrators who died in the police firing on May 25, 1967, eight were women.   (Sarkar), now 74, is one of the few surviving women from those days of blood, sweat and fire.

 “Much before Naxalbari happened, I used to go for political meetings and demonstrations. Even as a teenager, I gave speeches on the exploitation of bhag chasis (cultivators) by jotedars (rich peasants). I loved the freedom that politics gave me. Politics enabled me to step out of home and opened the door to a new world in those conservative times,“ says Munda, whose father was a farmer and Communist party member.
 
 Even at 74, Munda clearly remembers the Naxalbari struggle of May 1967. “My younger daughter had been born just 15 days ago but nothing could stop me from being part of the huge gathering on May 24. The movement had galvanized women from nearby areas too.Even old women who could not walk properly had re a ch e d t h e re.There was a party principle those days: if a cop enters a village, women must gherao him. Then someone in the crowd riddled inspector Sonam Wangdi with arrows and there was chaos,“ she says.
 
 After her comrades were killed in police action the next day, she went underground for five years. 'I worked for the party in Jalpaiguri district: organizing peasants, giving them a vision of what the country will be once revolution happens,“ says Munda, who despite her frail health, continues to be involved in radical Left politics. She also contested elections as a CPI (ML) candidate from Phansidewa constituency in 1982 and 1987 and lost on both occasions.
 
 Munda is sad about the way the Communist movement failed to take off in India. “The Chinese Communist party was formed around the same time as ours.Now just compare the achievements of the two,“ she asks.
 
 Looking back at 1967, she remains convinced that Naxalbari was the right path to follow. “But the movement suffered after dalals and thieves sneaked in,“ she says. Munda is convinced that land will be at the centre of future struggles. “Land is being forcibly taken away from people.There are no jobs. The fight for land will always continue,“ she says.
 
