DEHRADUN: Disgruntled by   government’s “mere assurances”, over 65,000 teachers, associated with various teacher organisations, said that the government may have to face the brunt in the upcoming polls. The teachers, who constitute an influential vote bank in Uttarakhand, have been pressing for individual demands since several months. A number of them said that they might either opt for NOTA or for a promising independent candidate to “teach erring politicians a lesson”. Some others stated that they will vote for those politicians who promise to address their issues on priority and bring in transfer act for teachers in the state.
 
  “We’ve been hearing that posts for yoga teachers will be created in government schools. The issue has been discussed and cleared thrice in the cabinet, but till date no posts have been created.We will either vote for an independent candidate or opt for NOTA to show our dissent,” said  , state president of the Yoga qualified unemployed federation (YQUF). The members of the organisation are still sitting on agitation.
  
  Some teachers said that anger was simmering amongst the government school teaching fraternity and they want a government that can act on their issues rather than giving mere assurances.
  
  “We will support a government that talks about handling teachers’ issues expeditiously. We have many pending demands, which should have been considered by now,” said  , president of the  .
  
  Sharing the same views, V S Krishali, Dehradun district head of the government primary teachers association, said, “We were slightly relieved when one of our demands of separately running junior high schools was met. But the transfer of 20-25 teachers in primary and junior high schools to Dehradun district recently is quite unsatisfactory as it curtails our chances of promotion. We intend to support whichever government promises to address our demands.”
  
  The aggrieved guest teachers said that they felt betrayed after the Harish Rawat government promised to create jobs for them following short service commission’s initiation. However, no advertisements have been released yet for their appointment.
  
  “If an assurance was given to almost 6,000 of us for jobs, the advertisements should have been released in time. Now, they can only be released once the model code of conduct imposition ends. We obviously feel disheartened by the unmet promises,” said  , president of the guest teachers association, hoping that the next government will look into their issue on priority basis.
  
  A few unemployed youth under the ‘Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) and Master of Physical Education (MPEd) trained unemployed youth association, who have been demanding that government should hire physical education teachers in all government schools, also took to social media to garner support to vote against “the incumbent government for the alleged betrayal”.
