NEW DELHI: Even as the   prepares to announce polls in five states, the complex situation in poll bound   due to the ongoing blockade by Naga rebels has been cited by the   as a prime concern while discussing deployment of central forces. 

 Government sources said senior home ministry officials, who met EC along with CRPF and railway board brass on Monday to tie up force logistics for the polls, pointed out that the law and order situation in at least four districts of Manipur, including those carved out of Naga-dominated areas of Senapati and Tamenglong, was not conducive and may interfere with free and fair poll. 
 
 “There are concerns if the security situation will allow voters to access polling stations without fear of violence. As directed by EC, we are tying up force logistics to ensure that polls can be held in a free and fair manner,” said a home ministry official. 
 
 EC has called another round of discussions on Tuesday with the police brass and chief electoral officers of the five poll-bound states, UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. The meeting will review the law and order situation and the status of publication of revised electoral rolls in these states. “The polls may be announced in a day or two,” said an official. 
 
 The home ministry has already committed 85,000 paramilitary personnel to watch over the polls. While most of them would be stationed in UP, Manipur remains a prime concern as the blockade by Naga rebels in protest against reorganisation of districts has affected movement of traffic and essential supplies on NH-2. Fear of violence in at least four districts is making the ministry wary about voters freely access polling booths. 
 
 “Polls in Manipur have to be held along with the four other states. The term of the assembly expires on March 18, and polls have to be completed before that. We are reworking force deployment details to enable smooth polling,” said an official. 
 
 An IAS officer in Manipur told TOI that though the law and order situation was grave until 20 days ago in certain districts, the situation has been on the mend lately. “By the time polling takes place, we expect the situation to be better as locals are fed up and want to get on with normal life,” the officer said.
 
