HYDERABAD: A private school allegedly locked up 19 students on its premises for about two hours, for not paying   on time. The students were also barred from appearing in their annual examination which began on Saturday.

 The atrocity was discovered after a parent informed the police, activists, and media about the confinement at  , Hayathnagar.
 
 Police have registered a case under the Juvenile Justice Act against the school management. A probe has begun.
 
 “My daughter borrowed a mobile phone from a parent who had come to pay the fee and called her mother to inform her about the confinement. She said they were `locked' in a room and weren't allowed to write the exam. I asked her to pass on the phone to the principal or any staff in the vicinity, but they refused to talk. Immediately, we rushed to spot and were shocked to see even a five-year-old among the detained students,“ said a parent.
 
 “We do have dues, but my wife already met the principal and assured the payment by April. She had also requested them to allow our children to sit for the exam. The school management should have called parents if there was an issue, this is no way to treat kids,“ said the parent. While the school authorities could not be re ached for a comment, parents alleged that the children were “illegally confined“ and “humiliated“.
 
 Hayathnagar inspector J Narender Goud, said, “The school management's behaviour was uncalled for. We found the children, aged 5 to 14 years, locked in a room. They were released and allowed to take the exam after our intervention. When questioned about their action, the management said it was because the students' parents had delayed in paying their fees.“
 
 Child right activists also condemned the school's behaviour and demanded action against the officials. “This act of the school is a severe violation of child rights and amounts to illegal confine ment of children. We demand a criminal case against the school management,“ said activist Achyuta Rao.
 
 
 
 
