PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Of the four couples contesting the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation elections, only one couple – Nana Kate and Sheetal Kate – won from Pimple Saudagar (panel 28).

 Sheetal Kate retained her seat, securing 12,416 votes, and won by a margin of 4,244 votes. She defeated BJP candidate Kunda Bhise. Nana Kate alias Vitthal was elected as a   from Pimple Saudagar area in 2007 municipal election. 
 
 He secured 13,058 votes and won by a margin of 5,432 votes. He defeated BJP candidate Jainath Kate.
 
 Vitthal said, “We have been doing development work in Pimple Saudagar for 10 years. The voters have voted for the work done by both of us as corporators. We will work to solve the traffic problems in Pimple Saudagar and make the area plastic free.”
 
 NCP corporator   contested from C seat of panel ward no 26 – Venunagar-Pimple Nilakh gaothan while her husband contested as an NCP candidate from C seat of panel ward no 25 - Punawale-Wakad gaothan. Swati Kalate was defeated by NCP candidate Aarti Chondhe by a margin of 3,953 votes.
 
 NCP candidate Mayur Kalate and MNS candidate Sachin Chikhale also won the elections. Mayur Kalate won the election defeating his nearest rival and Shiv Sena candidate Santosh Pawar by a margin of 1,628 votes. Kalate secured 7,236 votes while Pawar secured 5,608 votes.
 
 Sitting MNS corporator Ashvini Chikhale was defeated from panel 13C - Sector 22-Yamunanagar. Her husband Sachin Chikhale, who contested for the first time infrom the same panel, won, defeating his nearest rival NCP corporator Tanaji Khade by a margin of 2,926 votes.
 
 The fourth couple Satish Darekar and Madhuri Darekar, who contested from two different panel wards, lost the election. Satish Darekar, who is a former Congress corporator, contested as an NCP candidate from seat D of panel ward 23 at Thergaon Gaothan – Bapujibuva Nagar. He was defeated by independent Kailas Barne. Madhuri Darekar contested as an NCP candidate from panel ward 24 – Aditya Birla hospital-Mhatobanagar. She was defeated by independent candidate Zamabai Barne who was supported by the BJP.
 
 
