BENGALURU: While tax rates on gold jewellery in the upcoming   (GST) regime are still undecided,   here are gearing up to make a case before Union revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia who will visit Karnataka on May 29 and 30.

 They are seeking a special GST slab of 1.25 % for jewellery .At present, gold jewellery attracts 1% value added tax (VAT), 1% central excise duty and 10% customs duty in case the yellow metal is imported. “Gold jewellery is a high-value commodity and it should be taxed below two per cent in the  ,“ said G V Sridhar, immediate past president of All-India Gems and Jewellery Trade Federation. Sridhar, managing director of Srirama Jewellers, said they have already sent a representation to the Centre.
 
 Hasmukh Adhia will meet trade bodies and industrialists ahead of the   expected on July 1. He will meet traders and tax payers in Mysuru on May 29 and is scheduled to address a meeting at Town Hall in Bengaluru on May 30.
 
 “Meeting various stakeholders as a precursor to the GST rollout is a welcome move by the Centre. It would help resolve issues and address concer ns ahead of the new taxation system,“ said B T Manohar, taxation committee chairman of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI). He will lead the traders' community during the interaction with Adhia.
 
 The GST Council that met on May 18 and 19, classified most of the goods and services under five GST slabs, including 0 %, 5%, 12%, 18% and 28 %. The   on jewellery , biscuits (confection ery), footwear and a few other commodities are yet to be finalized and the council is expected take a call on June 3.
 
 The jewellers are concerned about higher tax rates that could hinder their business which has already taken a hit due to the demonetization drive.
 
 “High rates on jewellery will help only some of the rich and defeat the cashless concept. It may even give rise to a rampant grey market. To avoid these, the rate must be kept at 1.25%,“ said C Vinod Hatagriv, managing director of  .
 
 In the GST regime, sweet condiments like laddu will be taxed at 5% while spicy items like khara boondhi made of similar ingredients will attract 18%. The condiment traders want Adhia to ad dress this anomaly . This apart, both vehicles and spare parts have been put under 28 % GST slab, and the auto industry wants spare parts to be classified under lesser tax rate at 18%. Hotels to shut down on May 30 Opposing the decision to levy 12% GST on non-AC restaurants, hoteliers in Karnataka will observe a bandh on May 30.The food served in AC restaurants will attract 18%, while star hotels have been put under the 28% slab. At present, restaurants, irrespective of their turnover, are being taxed at 4%.
 
 “Since eating out is going to be very expensive even at small eateries, we are seeking 5% GST for non-AC restaurants,“ said P C Rao, vice-president of Bangalore Hoteliers Association.
 
