HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday, asked   Rail (HMR) authorities to speed up acquisition work for building   across several stretches of the city. 

 In a meeting of the Special Task Force for monitoring progress of metro works, chief secretary SP Singh directed HMR officials, and collectors of Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy to clear hurdles for metro so that maximum works can be completed by the end of the year. While two routes of the Hyderabad metro rail are speeding towards completion, work on Corridor II of the project (Jubilee Bus Station to Falaknuma) continues to crawl at a snail’s pace. A quick scan reveals that work beyond the   station have not even started. This means, even if the metro is rolled in the next few months, as per schedule, the Old City area will be bereft of metro connectivity at least up to 2019. The installing of pillars alone would take close to two years. 
 
 The delay, primarily caused due to MIM’s demand for a change in alignment, has left residents restless. Authorities are focusing on other areas but the fact is that the Old City has an equally grave traffic situation that needs to be solved. For one year , we have been waiting for the work to begin,” said Afsar Khan, a resident of Patthegatti.
 
 The opposition party has insisted that the planned MGBS- Sabzi Mandi- Faluknuma route be realigned along the MGBS- Purana Pul- Falaknuma stretch.
 
 Locals, are upset by the chaos around the issue. “We will be left to suffer commuting issues while residents of other areas will be able to travel to places much faster. If the stretch is not laid soon, those willing to avail of the metro facility will have to travel to MGBS. And that’s going to be a costly affair,” said Viral Shah, a resident of Shalibanda.
 
 Traders in Old City also fear a loss . “If a congested stretch like Sultan Bazaar can make way for metro, why not other areas? If the alignment of the corridor is changed, traders will suffer huge losses,” said Govind Rathi, chairman, traders joint action committee.The Corridor II is a 14.7km stretch. Of this, nearly 7 kms up to MGBS is already under development, the rest remains untouched. 
 
 
