Pune: The decommissioning of   — longest serving warship of the world — on Monday evening at Naval Dockyard in Mumbai was an emotional affair not only for the Indian Navy personnel, but also for the   of  .

 For, before being inducted into the Indian Navy, the ship was with the Royal Navy for a period of 27 years. The ship, then called HMS Hermes, played a pivotal role in Falkland war — when Argentina invaded a remote UK colony in the South Atlantic in 1982.
 
 Andy Trish, a 53-year-old retired Airman of the Royal Navy who served on the ship during the war, said, “I was deployed on it for 103 days. Each day on the ship was spectacular and memorable for me. I even celebrated my 19th birthday on the ship. How often you get such an opportunity to celebrate your birthday on an aircraft carrier?”
 
 Trish was one of the 20 members, who had joined the HMS Hermes as airmen, invited by the Indian Navy especially to attend the decommissioning ceremony of INS Viraat.
 
 Trish said he was overjoyed to receive an invitation from the Indian Navy. “It was a great gesture as they (Indian Navy) remembered every sailor of the ship which is incredible,” he said.
 
 Steven Robertson and Mark Shepherd were also part of the 20-member contingent and served on the ship as naval airmen during the Falkland war.
 
 Talking about his experience, Robertson said, “This ship was like a mother to us during the war. Though our tenure on the ship was short, the association with it will remain for a lifetime. Like us, the Royal Navy will never ever forget the immense contribution of this ship.”
 
 Shepherd suggested that the ship should be turned into a museum for future generations. 
 
 “The mightiness of the ship should remain intact to show the next generation how powerful this ship was. The ship should be converted into a museum so that the saga of the ship can reach from one generation to another,” he said.
 
 INS Viraat was commissioned in the Royal Navy from 1959. The Indian Navy bought it for $65 million in the late 80s and re-commissioned it on May 12, 1987.
 
 Former navy chief admiral Arun Prakash, who has served as commanding officer of INS Viraat, said with the decommissioning of the ship, Indian Navy’s association with the Royal Navy has come to an end.
 
 
