ABU DHABI: The battle of sprinters -   vs   - wasn't going to be the only mouth-watering contest of the 2017 Abu Dhabi Tour. Once the first two sprinter-friendly stages concluded, and the World Tour event moved to the GC stage at the Jebel Hafeet, known for its stiff 10.2 km climb, a certain two-time   winner   was always going to be one of the favourites.

 Since the Spaniard is one of the big names for his side Trek-Segafredo, he is usually the man to lead them. But not this time, for the responsibility fell on Contador's team-mate Bauke Mollema's shoulders. Contador, having earlier stated that he would be riding under Mollema in Abu Dhabi, finally revealed the reason behind the decision, asserting that his main aim is to play a supporting role for other riders in the team.
 
 "I won't be leading the charge for Trek-Segafredo for this Tour and my objective is to work for Mollema and other team-mates. There's no particular reason as such but it's just that I am yet to regain my full fitness and my main aim is to be a 100 percent for the season ahead," Contador told TOI Sports. "I've got other strong team-mates and I will be more than happy to play second fiddle. My condition is pretty good for this time of the year but my first target next is the Paris-Nice. And to be there at the peak of my fitness, I need to be in top form. I have no problems in helping Mollema. In fact, we complement each other well. If we can put a good show and end up winning, nothing like it."
 
 Contador is one of only six riders to have won all three Grand Tours of Road Cycling - the Tour de France, Giro d'Italia and the Vuelta a Espana - the others being Jacques Anquetil, Eddy Merckx, Felice Gimondi, Bernard Hinault and  . Coming to Abu Dhabi, Contador had a rather impressive campaign at the Andalucia Ruta Ciclista Del Sol, a Spanish cycling event, where he finished behind Alejandro Valverde. 
 
 There, he stated that he still needed to work harder to hone his top-end form. And even though he may treat the Abu Dhabi Tour as a platform to get in shape, Contador is aware of what the event comprises, especially in the mountain stage. Contador had competed in its second edition last October, finishing fifth.
 
 "I remember that wasn't the easiest of stages. We will definitely aim for the general classification. We will be giving our best for sure to try and be there out in the front. It won't be easy though with the best of riders here. However, we have the team to do it," he said. 
 
 "The decisive climb is long and tough. Last October the temperatures were high but they're a lot cooler now. There was a little more tiredness. But that being said, make no mistake that it won't be any easier. We have some quality riders who are good at pulling off good climbs so no one can get afford to get complacent. The good part about it though is that it will be a good early test for all."
 
 Stage 1 wasn't the kind of start Contador expected. Even though it wasn't supposed to be of much consequence for the 34-year-old, Contador and Mollema hit the deck in a crash merely 5 kms away from the finish line. He accidentally leapt on Julien Bernad's bike and the whole squad fell in a trail. And if that wasn't enough, in order to hurry and get back up, another crash occurred to derail their progress before Contador was helped to get on a team-mate's bike by the others. 
 
 Hence, heading into the remaining stages, there's all the more reason for Contador to not take the Tour lightly. He will be up against the best climbers in the competition - UAE Team Emirates'   and Bahrein-Merida's Nibali who is among the strongest stage racer riders in the world today - and the odds on favourite Nairo Quintana. Contador reflected back on the Ruta del Sol and took the positives, where he felt good and was able to push hard.
 
 "Training is different and racing with the best is different. The feeling in Ruta was good and so I'm very much good to go here. A race like this will help me enhance my fitness further," Contador said. "That race (Ruta) has definitely given me a lot of confidence for the rest of the season. It showed I'm very much there."
 
 With such razor-sharp focus, Paris might just be the beginning of a third Tour de France title for Contador. Though he refused to comment on that, in three-week races, Contador has enjoyed tremendous success despite securing a podium finish only four times in the last 10 years. But then again, he has gone through a lot in that decade. A doping ban saw him being stripped off a Giro d'Italia and Tour de France title each, while in 2014 he reversed his decision of retiring from the sport which was received with mixed reactions. But despite that, Contador garners plenty of respect from his peers. 
 
 Even at 34, an age that isn't the strongest for a cyclist to clinch a World Tour title, Contador has taken the first step towards a potential grand finish at the 2017 Tour de France.
 
 
 
 
