MUMBAI: In what was their fourth meeting since the Supreme Court appointed them to administer the  , the   (CoA) ­ Vinod Rai, Vikram Limaye, Ramchandra Guha and Diana Eduljee - met in New Delhi on Friday. For the better part of the meeting, the CoA listened to the record of the February 19, 2016 Special General Meeting (SGM) held in Mumbai.

 In that meeting, all members of the BCCI - barring treasurer  , who represents the   (HCA) - had unreservedly backed Shashank Manohar's proposal that India should agree to a cut in their revenue share from the   (ICC) and support shooting down of the financial plans put in place by the earlier chairman  .
 
 It was clear even then that India would theoretically stand to lose millions had BCCI supported Manohar. But in what was clearly an anti-Srinivasan wave back then, all members - including   (MCA) president   - agreed to back Manohar.
 
 On Friday, the CoA heard the record of the meeting and went through the minutes in detail. Surprisingly, even the   (TNCA) - represented by PS Raman - felt Manohar could be authorised to find a solution.
 
 Separately, the CoA also took note of the state associations' stand on the Indian Premier League (IPL) and their demand for money - Rs 60 lakh per game (Rs 30 lakh from BCCI & Rs 30 lakh from franchise - to part with the infrastructure. The administrators have decided to take up both the issues -SGM minutes and IPL payments - with utmost seriousness.
 
 Ten state associations had filed a plea last month in the SC, requesting they be allowed to call for a Special General Meeting (SGM) to discuss the ICC issue.
 
 However, with Manohar now resigning from his post as independent chairman, the present administration clearly wants to revisit each and every detail of meetings held in the past and identify views expressed by the previous dispensation.
 
 "All these factors will certainly be presented before the SC at the right time. Take the IPL for instance. Do they really think they can disrupt a tournament just like that? Do they even understand the consequences of what they're doing or they just don't care," a source involved with the developments said.
 
 
 The ex-employees of the BCCI are presently involved in an ugly exchange of words with Santosh Rangnekar, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Board, over pending dues which haven't been given to them yet.
 
 Barring BCCI's former media manager Nishant Arora, who was asked to leave along with close to a dozen other employees based out of Delhi and Pune, none of the others have been paid in full yet.
 
 "It's over a month since the termination. I along with my colleagues are still waiting for our dues to be cleared by BCCI. This is completely unprofessional. We first got to know about our termination through newspapers. The current management did not even have the courtesy to call us and instead sent a BCCI official to lock the Delhi office," Krishna Pophale, executive assistant to former BCCI president  , wrote.
 
 In a 10-pointer of an email sent separately, he added: "You have conveniently sidestepped our world cup salary issue despite our repeated requests. If my rightful dues are not cleared by next week, I'll initiate civil and criminal action against BCCI management for breach of trust."
 
 In his reply, Rangnekar expressed "surprise" at the email and tried justifying BCCI's stand.
 
