WASHINGTON: Till recently , they were being celebrated as the best-educated, most enterprising, wealthiest immigrant community in the  . But a surreptitiously shot video in the US heartland by a disgruntled American worker showing a purported “Indian takeover“ in the Midwest suggests things are viewed very differently the conservative part.

 Titled `Welcome to Columbus Ohio Suburbs -Let's Take a Walk to Indian Park', the video, posted in August last year, predates the Trump election victory , but its appearance on an anti-immigration website has generated a sulfurous debate on the growing Indian presence in the US, including legal, workrelated residency . In the video, a 66-year-old computer programmer from Virginia named Steve Pushor walks through a park in Columbus, Ohio, secretly shooting a video overlaid with commentary that has spooked many Indians. “The number of people from foreign countries blows my mind out here.You see this whole area is all Indian, amazing. It's an amazing number of jobs have been taken away from Americans,“ Pushor narrates as the camera pans across a park with dozens of people who all seem Indian, including children playing on swings and slides and women watching over them in Indian salwars and sarees.
 
 Although Pushor had claimed to BuzzFeed, which first reported the presence of the video, that he is merely highlighting the loss of American IT jobs, and he neither advocates violence does he want Indians currently living in the US to leave the country , the tone of the video gradually gets more offensive and nativist. “The Indian crowd has ravished the Midwest. It's crazy,“ Pushor says at one point, calling the present of Indians “crazy insanity“ and wondering “Where does all this money come from?“ The video has now gone viral on various social media platforms, generating a fu rious discussion, including expressions of concern from Indians about someone stalking their families at a time of increased hate crimes against immigrants, particularly in the light of the shooting of an Indian engineer in   and a Sikh-American in   state.
 
 The video comes at a time when many alt-right extremists have made their way into the Trump administration.Trump's own strategic advisor Steve Bannon is reported to be an unabashed fan of a racist trope called Camp of the Saints by an obscure French author, Jean Raspail.
 
 The book's theme is centered around immigrants from the developing world, led by Indians, overrunning the white western world, taking away not just their jobs but also their women and their way of life. 
 
