KOLKATA: A 30-year-old woman who is a mother of a two-month-old child was allegedly molested and then badly beaten up inside a posh nightclub by a group of drunk men in Park Street. The motley crew – led by an established businessman from the Alipore area – was “unhappy” that the woman had dared to encroach “their private space which they had booked inside the nightclub.”

 The incident was reported in the wee hours of Sunday morning. Though the   police has lodged a case, it is yet to arrest anyone in the case. The incident has brought back memories of the Park Street gang rape with the victim alleging that no one had bothered to come forward and help her. “Koi aage nehi aaya bachane, sirf khare hoke tamasha dekhte rahe (No one came forward to save me. They just stood there and watched).
 
 According to the victim, she and her husband – both residents of Alipore – had gone to visit some friends at another nightclub on Saturday when they decided to drop by at M-Bar nightclub to catch up with some common friends. It was around 1 am.
 
 “There was a reserved space where a group of people were partying. We spotted our common friends there and walked towards that side. This annoyed the businessman. I could immediately identify him but before I started to speak, he asked me how I dared to enter his private space. He was quite drunk and started to touch me inappropriately. He molested me in front of others and tried to push me down to the floor. After I fell, he continued hitting me over and over again. Three others – whom I could not identity – joined in and surrounded me.
 
 My husband tried to come forward to save me. He was hit and one of the men tried to throttle him using the gold chain he was wearing. His hair was pulled, his spectacles were thrown away from his face and he was pushed around so that he could not reach me. Finally, the club bouncers and the owner himself rushed to my rescue. Even as the attackers fled, one of them threatened me with dire consequences,” the victim wrote in her complaint and later shared the same with the media. The woman later claimed she was receiving calls urging her to withdraw the case.
 
 The Shakespeare Sarani police said they have registered a complaint based on the woman’s complaint. “We have sought   footage from the nightclub. We are identifying the accused, two of whom are clearly visible in the CCTV footage. The woman’s statement is being recorded. We have slapped   sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354A (unwelcome comment or sexual overtones), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention),” said a senior police officer. TOI got in touch with the M-bar authorities who was thanked by the victim herself for their timely intervention. “We will release a statement in this regard soon,” said owner Varun Mimani.
 
