: In a month’s time, the assembly results will be out. Candidates and their supporters in   are anxiously awaiting the outcome. People who love politics with all its nuances and innuendos are becoming increasingly impatient with every passing day and scratching their heads over the fate of their leaders.
 
  Political analysts, with years of experience, though indulged in all sorts of permutations and combinations, are unlikely to gauge the mood of the silent electorate this time around.
  
  It is expected that   will better its tally in Salcete. However, the major stumbling block could be the   factor. As of now, Congress can confidently claim victory in Margao and Curtorim. Fatorda is simply out question for Congress, but for sitting MLA and   chief, Vijai Sardessai, it won’t be a smooth ride.
  
  Though it’s very difficult to ascertain as to when the silent-voter syndrome came into play, but a few punters say that it was only after the AAP launched a fierce campaign.
  
  In Fatorda, no one can deny the fact that the present incumbent has performed in terms of development.
  
  It was he who took on the government at every instance. It was seen as runaway victory for him, but things got a bit difficult for him with the announcement of AAP candidate. The collapse of alliance talks and Congress fielding its own candidate was a threat to Vijai but AAP appeared a bigger threat. On the other side, Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik claimed victory.
  
  In Nuvem, Congress’ Wilfred D’Sa worked tirelessly to garner voters’ support. At one point of time, it was a foregone conclusion that he would beat the sitting MLA as the voters were vociferous in bringing the party back to power. However, things took a turn when AAP made an appearance.
  
  In other constituencies of the state, voters had a fear at the back of their minds that if they vote against the government, all the schemes and doles would be stopped. However, Salcete was an exception.
  
  Initially, if the electorate in this taluka preferred Congress then it was only for the simple reason that they wanted BJP out along with those who were supporting them. However, things changed as elections dates drew closer.
  
  Another aspect that went against the Congress was its waste of precious time on forging alliance and distribution of tickets, says a Congress candidate.
  
  In Benaulim, Congress candidate, Edwin Baretto wished for just another 10 days more for campaigning to ensure his victory. Today he is singing the tune that the silent vote is in his favour. “Voters were not afraid, but they preferred silence as a lot of money was pumped into the constituency. Forcing money on voters and then expecting them to be vocal is not practical. But they did vote for Congress,” he said.
  
  Benaulim AAP candidate, Royla Fernandes says that her party made its presence felt for almost a year.
  
  “The silent vote is for AAP. People were angry with the Alemaos for raking up the Portuguese nationality issue. Moreover, there was an anti-BJP wave and the infighting in Congress made AAP the only option for voters”.
  
  In Navelim, the dilemma before the voters was whether to vote for BJP or Congress. Though independent candidate, Avertano Furtado was on the backfoot for having supported BJP during his last tenure, his humble nature kept his hopes alive.
  
  Congress was trying to make a comeback through Luizinho Faleiro, but had to overcome Churchill Alemao’s brashness. With his tacit support, Cipru and George Baretto put up a brave front.
  
  The AAP candidate is an environmental activist and known for his down-to-earth nature. The silent voters’ preference will be known only on March 11.
  
  In Velim, the silent vote in all likelihood might go to various candidates like Cruz Silva of AAP and Anthony ‘Babush’ Fernandes of Goa Forward Party. The resentment was visible among voters against the present incumbent, Benjamin Silva for supporting BJP and also no development in this constituency.
  
  While AAP claims to have got the silent vote in Cuncolim, independent candidate, John Monteiro scales down Aam Aadmi Party’s position by placing it fifth on the victory ladder. He, however claimed that the silent vote was cast in his favour. A close fight is expected between independent Joaquim Alemao, Congress’ Clafacio Dias and AAP’s Elvis Gomes. BJP’s Rajan Naik, poltical analysts feel, may very well emerge from the shadows.
  
  As for Margao and Curtorim, the voting indicated some pattern and it veered towards the Congress, sources said.
  
  While Margao, political analysts feel, will be retained by the Congress, giving Digambar Kamat’s his seventh successive victory. Though BJP was determined to wrest the seat from the Congress, precious time was lost in the selection of the candidate by the party, and that gave Kamat a distinct edge. In Curtorim, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, political analysts say, is distinctly ahead of his closest rival, BJP’s Arthur D’Silva.
  
 
 
  
 Initially, if the electorate in this taluka preferred Congress then it was only for the simple reason that it wanted the BJP out along with those who were supporting it. However, things changed as elections dates drew closer
