NAGPUR: Discussing   with a view to set the course of humanity towards progress, Dr. Ambedkar Sanyukta Nagari Jayanti Samaroh Samiti, Nagpur organized a symposium where members of the Buddhist community shared their views on the ‘Future of Buddhism’.

 The programme was held at Deekshabhoomi on Tuesday to celebrate Buddha Poornima. Chairman of Mahanak Shastyamuni Trust   and president of the organizing body Pradeep Aglave were prominently present.
 
 “Buddha taught us to see things what they are. We must observe what we see in front of us and understand what it is. This a core principal which Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar followed,” said Gunsiri. According to him, blind faith and superstition come about because of the absence of this principal, and have led to discrimination on the basis of caste.
 
 Gunsiri said, “The situation in our country has been the same since the last 1000 years. Caste discrimination has created a lot of enmity within our society. Discrimination, by definition, is unjust and all the pains of humanity are a result of this. Babasaheb made it clear in his dhamma that the interaction between each individuals in the backdrop of casteism is wrong and very worrying,” 
 
 He added, “unless there is a change in principals, belief and way of thinking of a person and a society as a whole our country and the world cannot progress.”
 
 The Buddhist scholar opined that outfits of the Ambedkari movement in the last 60 years have lost and ruined themselves because they did not implement the principals Ambedkar had imbibed.
 
 Financial expert Prashant Devgade who participated in the discussion said, “The unrest in our country is in the form of caste discrimination and superstition and has damaged the society. The Buddhist community has now been divided into SC ST OBC categories.”
 
 Software engineer Siddhant Patil said, “Babasaheb has given four leagues — People’s Education Society for the education movement, Bharatiya Buddha Mahasabha for spiritual movement, Samta Sainik Dal for social movement and the Republican Party of India as the political front to us to implement his thoughts.”
 
