BHUBANESWAR: Considering Odisha’s demand, the Centre on Monday reduced   (GST) on different  .

 Sources said, the Centre has reduced GST rate on   and cups and plates stitched from Sal or Soali leaves from 18% to 5%, while the tax rates on idols of clay which was 28%, has been exempted from tax. Tax rate on idols of stone has been reduced from 28% to 12%.
 
 “Odisha had been demanding to exempt tax from the handicraft and handloom goods. In this regard, Odisha CM   had written a letter to the Prime Minister to exempt handicrafts and   from GST,” said finance minister  .
 
 He further added, “It is a big relief for a large number of tribal people who collect sal or siali leaves from the forest stitch them and sell in markets for livelihood. These products were exempted from   and there were no excise duty on them too.”
 
 The demand of Odisha was discussed in the 21st meeting of the   held in Hyderabad. Considering the demands of Odisha, the GST Council reduced the tax rate on other handicraft goods from 18% to 12%. In this way, the demand of the state has been accepted by the GST Council.
 
 Khadi fabrics sold through Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), KVIC certified institutions and outlets have also been exempted from tax. Odisha Khadi and Village Industries Board president Tejeswar Parida said, “There is some confusion over the GST rates imposed on khadi and cottage industries products. We are waiting for the notification as we are not yet sure about whether all products sold in the khadi commission or khadi boards’ outlets will be exempted from tax or not.”
 
 Odisha Shilpi Mahasangha, an association of artisans that had also demanded exemption of GST welcomed the move. “We appreciate that the Centre considered our demand but we request them to exempt tax from all handcraft and handloom products instead of making it selective for a few items only,” said secretary of the Mahasangha, Priya Ranjan Kar.
 
 They demanded exemption of tax from handicraft products of Odisha including wood work, pattachitra, applique work, palm leaf etching, brass and dhokra work, bell metal articles, terracotta crafts, santhal and saura paintings.
 
 
