KALWAN (DEHRADUN): Every morning at 8, Narendra Singh and his group of four elderly men, armed with shovels and spades, navigate their way through a 6km-long and 2m-wide treacherous path on the hillside. An hour later, the narrow pathway in  , 45km from Dehradun city, opens to a slightly wider stretch. The men, sweating and puffing after the long walk, then start digging. The five men have been following the routine for a week after they took upon themselves to carve a km-long path to connect their village to the nearest road head.

 A personal tragedy, similar to that of ' '  , led Singh, a farmer in his sixties, to take matters in his own hand and provide road connectivity to his village. Manjhi, a labourer in Bihar, spent 22 years carving a road so that his village could have easier access to medical attention after his wife fell off a hill, injured herself and died. Singh also lost his wife,  , in a similar way on December 27 last year when she slipped off the hill path and plunged 200m to her death.
 
 “My wife's wasn't the first life that the narrow passage has claimed. Three of my family members have slipped to their death over the course of a few years,“ Singh told TOI on Monday. “For several decades, we have managed without a road to our village. Many surveys of the area were conducted by the state government but no action was taken. But after my wife's death, I decided not to wait for anybody.“
 
 Bordering Tehri Garhwal, Kalwan, which has 250 registered voters, is the last village in Dehradun district. The nearest road head is 7km from the village and the closest hospital is 20km away. Children walk 5km to school, residents said.
 
 “During medical emergencies, we have to carry patients to the closest road head in Ithrana,“  , a 70-year-old local resident who is helping Singh build the road, added. “This region is prone to landslides and boulders block even the narrow stretch that we use to travel on foot. It is up to us to clear the path as we get no help from authorities.“
 
