PUNE: The   police have detained a teenaged boy and arrested his accomplice for robbing a 44-year-old man of his gold   and smartphone at   on Sunday night. A third abettor is still on the run.

 The victim works as a driver with a private firm located in Koregaon Park. He was passing close to the main gate of Clover Water Housing Society in Kalyaninagar on his motorbike when he stopped by the roadside to attend a phone call around 9.30pm.
 
 According to the police, three men on bike rode towards the victim and intercepted him. They threatened the driver with dire consequences and robbed him of his gold chain and smartphone, totally worth Rs65,000, and sped away from the spot.
 
 According to the police, the driver was so panicked that he did not resist or raise an alarm when the incident occurred. Moreover, the episode took place in a lonely area, where there were no eye witnesses. Once he was left alone, the man rushed to the Yerawada police station to register a complaint and provide a description of the robbers.
 
 On Wednesday, a police team detained a 17-year-old boy, who was one of the robbers. The boy named his accomplices and one of them, identified as Yogesh Mallesh Kamble (19) from Laxminagar in Yerawada, was held on Thursday.
 
 The police have recovered the chain and smartphone from the minor, who is a criminal on record and has been named in other robbery cases as well. His modus operandi is to intercept motorists at lonely places and   them of their chain and phone. 
 
 The minor and his two aides are known to each other as they reside in the same locality. As of now, the boy has been kept at an observation home. Kamble, a first-time offender, has been remanded to magisterial custody.
 
 Nine minor burglars detained
 
 The Vadgaon Maval police has detained a gang of nine minor burglars and recovered booty worth Rs4.5 lakh. The police have also arrested the gang’s kingpin Ravi Gorgel (19), who currently resides at Wakad. Assistant inspector   said that the gang was active in Keshavnagar, Gabhalewadi, MIDC road and Malinagar areas in Vadgaon Maval over the last year. The police has recovered 11 tolas gold, 350 gms silver and two motorbikes collectively worth Rs4.5 lakh.
 
 
