MUMBAI: Parksite   probing the collapse of Siddi Sai society in Ghatkopar have written to the BMC’s N Ward to seek relevant documents of the  .

 Sources said cops want to verify whether the BMC had carried out a structural audit of the building a few years ago. “We have asked the BMC to furnish all the documents on this building—its original plan, if any notice had been served and whether the accused,  , had obtained permissions to carry out structural changes,” said an officer. Police said if Shitap has claimed that he appointed an   to carry out structural changes, then he might have sought the BMC’s permission for it.
 
 “The architect is the key person who could shed some light on the structural position before the collapse.” Cops said they are looking for the architect who has gone underground.
 
 Residents alleged that Shitap had good ties with BMC officials. Police are studying his call detail reports to find out set of people he was in touch with, particularly BMC officials.
 
 Cops have formed a team comprising around 15 police officers, including two assistant commissioners, for the probe. Sources said this investigation will be carried out jointly by cops and BMC officials. Cops collected samples of the concrete, mangled rusted iron pieces, samples of cement, plaster and channel pillars. “We are sending the samples to Forensic Science Laboratory as well as taking help of a private lab and a professional architect to conduct various tests on these,” said one.
 
 Meanwhile, a two-member civic inquiry committee probing the   visited the site on Thursday. Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta had formed the panel comprising deputy municipal commissioner (improvements) Chandrashekar Chore and director engineering and chief engineer (roads) Vinod Chitore. Additional municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal has joined the panel following the chief minister’s directions to include an IAS official. “The panel must submit a report in 15 days,” said an official. They will speak to labourers and residents about the extent of work done. 
 
