KOCHI: The government must   to protect a natural asset like the Athirapilly falls instead of planning a hydroelectric project there, said noted environmentalist Claude Alvares, who was in Kochi on Thursday for the Kerala Learning unConvention. 

  "Numerous studies have come out suggesting that there is no need to build a hydroelectric   The studies have revealed that the project will have a devastating impact on the natural assets and the people living around the region. Yet, people voice their support for the hydroelectric plant," he said.
 
 He brushed away arguments made in favour of the   and the potential "development" the plant could bring about. 
 
 "Whose development? Whenever such a project comes about there are contractors who will 'develop' economically from it, that's all. Every few years, these people bring up the need to build the hydroelectric plant and play the same old development card," said Alvares, who came to the meet to talk about  . 
 
 "Athirapalli belongs to people of Kerala. And since it has such a significant natural and cultural importance, it must be protected," he said, adding that the government must release funds to protect and conserve the falls. Speaking on alternative education, he said students are provided with a static information about  . 
 
 "In schools, children are taught about climate change. But the curriculum is centered around getting a job. And therefore, they become indifferent to the subject to the climate change. We can understand more about climate change by looking around...the lack of rainfall and the declining forest land," he said. 
 
 He said students can get more information about climate change from the internet. They need to go beyond their school's curriculum to learn about the subject. 
 
 "In life, learning continues. But schools and universities have created a perception that learning can be completed, which is not true. Even a 60-year-old person can learn a lot from a teenager, who knows more about how modern technology works," he said. 
 
 He also criticized schools and universities providing the same platform for students with different backgrounds. 
 
 "It is dishonest and hypocritical to suggest that people from different economic background have to compete at the same level. There will always be one or two examples of success stories of people from challenging backgrounds succeeding. Only in education we have the concept of 'one size fits all', which is unfair," he said. 
 
