With the state reeling under the worst   in a century, corporate houses have actively begun conserving and recycling water resources. From refineries to iron foundries, industrial houses are gearing to do their bit for the environment. 

 For instance, sugar manufacturer EID Parry that has been using air-cooled condensers instead of cooling towers in its factory in Pudukkottai since 2013 has brought down its water consumption by one-fifth. Coca-Cola India, which faced a temporary court gag on drawing water from Tamirabarani river, is working in Cheranmadevi panchayat, Tirunelveli district on water replenishment projects. Startups like Greenvironment are also helping households and industrial houses recycle kitchen/sink water.
 
 As refinery systems can reach temperatures as high as 120ºC, they use significant quantities of water — about 2.5 gallons — for every gallon of petrol they produce. To optimize use of water, Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd has tied up with Chennai Metro Water for supply of semi-treated sewage water. "The sewage is further processed and turned into grey water before it is run as a coolant or absorbent in our systems," says Gautam Roy, managing director, CPCL. 
 
 Other industries prefer harvesting rain water. An artificial pond spread across five acres stores nearly 60 million litres of water at the Saint Gobain factory in Sriperumbudur. While the water caters to half of the factory’s water requirement, the company is now digging a bigger pond which will store another 80 million litres to take care of its future requirements. "For us a rain water storage pond is strategic and not an expenditure," says B Santhanam, the company’s president. The glass maker is targeting to save 210 million litres of water from the plant roof where 80 million litres of water has already been saved.
 
 Another industry that has been trying to minimise water consumption are the foundries. The state has more than 1400 iron, steel and aluminum foundries, which normally consume large quantities of water in production of pig iron, cast iron and stainless steel. The average water consumption for a mid-sized foundry that consumes about 5,000kW to 9,000kW of power and produces 2,400TPM-5,000 TPM of iron castings is 640 cubic sq ft to 1,130 cubic sq ft. 
 
 Earlier, foundries would convert waste slag to granules for dumping at landfills. "But that technique used huge quantities of water. So we’ve now started giving our slag to cement makers, who mix it with portland cement to make pozzalano bricks. The slag can be used with ready-to-mix cement or other pozzolanic materials to make durable concrete structures. They can also be used in buildings as bricks or on roads instead of tar," says Dr Nityanand Devaraaj, member, Institute of Indian Foundrymen. Accoring to city-based Greenvironment Innovation and Marketing, which works with IT parks, export units, hospitals and large residential complexes, nearly 70%-80% of water at IT parks can be reused. Varun Sridharan, director of Greenvironment says they are trying to bring down the average consumption of water per person at IT parks from 40 litres per person to 20 litres per person by using tech solutions like Internet of Things. "Our sensors collect data over a month on the quality of water being treated. This helps us maintain the same standard for the quality of reused water," says Sridharan.
 
 The startup recently bagged a grant from the Karnataka government to test a real time monitoring (RTM) system for the operation and maintenance of fresh and recycled water treatment plants. Greenvironment has also helped hospitals, which utilise 100 litres per person/bed and cut their water usage by 20%-30%. At food processing units, Greenvironment offers 100% recycling and reusing of effluents.
 
 Another such startup, ProKlean Technologies, which develops natural, non-toxic and biodegradable products for industrial houses, is currently working with several garment export companies in the Tirupur belt to reduce their water consumption. 
 
 "We have many formulations — soaking agents, dispersing agents, neutralisers, anti-grease and fixing agents — that reduce water consumption and toxicity of released effluents. Our product for the Tirupur textile industry for instance reduces water consumption by 30%, reduces effluent toxicity by 25%-50% and is 100% bio-degradable," says Sivaram Pillai, founder, ProKlean. 
 
 ProKlean also has similar solutions for the tanning process in the leather industry and effluent treatment — a biogradable process that could avoid incidents like the Bellandur lake, which is currently covered in snow-white toxic foam and catches fire at regular intervals.
 
