NEW DELHI: Days after CJI J S Khehar suggested a negotiated settlement of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri masjid dispute, the   on Thursday decided to start final hearing on the   challenging a trial court order dropping conspiracy charge against   and other top BJP leaders in the criminal case relating to   in 1992.

 A bench of Justices P C Ghose and R F Nariman posted the case for hearing on April 6 and asked all parties including the CBI to file their summary arguments saying it would help adjudicate the issues involved in the politically sensitive case. The bench deferred hearing on Thursday as senior advocate K K Venugopal, appearing for Advani, sought adjournment on the ground that he was busy with another case in the SC.
 
 The CBI had approached the apex court in 2011 challenging dropping of conspiracy charge against Advani, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharati, Vinay Katiyar and Murli Manohar Joshi. The others against whom the charge was dropped included Satish Pradhan, C R Bansal, Ashok Singhal (now dead), Giriraj Kishore (now dead), Bal Thackeray (now dead), Sadhvi Ritambhara, V H Dalmia, Mahant Avaidyanath, R V Vedanti, Param Hans Ram Chandra Das, Jagdish Muni Maharaj, B L Sharma, Nritya Gopal Das, Dharam Das, Satish Nagar and Moreshwar Save.
 
 The SC had ruffled a few feathers in the last hearing by questioning dropping of conspiracy charges against the accused and favouring a joint trial of all accused. The trial in the case was going on in two special courts, in Lucknow and Rae Bareli.
 
 The trial court had passed the order dropping conspiracy charges against the accused on May 4, 2001. The CBI challenged the order in the HC, which took 10 years to decide the case. The HC on May 20, 2010 refused to interfere with the lower court order and the CBI then moved the SC. The complainant in the case, Haji Mahboob Ahmad, too filed an appeal against the HC order in 2015. He is also a party in the civil case in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri masjid dispute. 
 
 The matter has been pending in the apex court for the last six years but no substantial arguments have taken place. 
 
 The case was taken up by the SC 30 times since 2011. It was listed seven times in 2011 and four times in 2012 but on all occasions the hearing was adjourned for various reasons. It came up 10 times for hearing in 2013, when the CBI was grilled by the SC for delay in filling appeal. But since then, there has been no significant movement though the case was listed five times in the next three years.
 
 In these six years, as many as 16 SC judges were part of benches before which the case was listed. As the bench of Justices Ghose and Nariman decided to take up final hearings soon, there lies a danger. If the case does not get decided by May 27, when Justice Ghose is scheduled to retire, the matter will have to be heard afresh by another bench.
 
