The party season is over but the music scene in India is buzzing and how! The New Year has come with its own flavour of Indian classical, folk, reggae and electro-pop genres of among others. This month, the country will host multiple music festivals wherein homegrown indie artistes along with their international counterparts will stage a myriad of performances. And it’s not just limited to music — there’s plenty else to do. Here’s a lowdown.

 
 The shores of   will see a cocktail of genre-defying acts from across the world at the GOAT Festival 2017, which is coming to India for the first time. With a few changes in its schedule and performances owing to the upcoming elections in the state, it will feature future-forward sounds, arts, dance and even wellness workshops. Artistes like Gilles Peterson, Kiasmos, Sarathy Korwar, Henry Wu, James Priestley (secretsundaze), Afriquoi, The Turbans and Medlar, Moniker are scheduled to perform.
 When: Jan 27-29, Venue: Goa.
 
 
 The three-day   Festival aims to promote wildlife conservation in Rajasthan through musical performances. The focus is on preservation and awareness, giving the public an insight into the efforts of music and nature conservation stakeholders. There will be performances by Sufi singer Ustad Ma Zila Khan, classical pianist Karl Lutchmayer, Mirasi singer Nagga Khan, Kamaicha player Ustaad Hakim Khan, Dingal poet Kailash Dan along with 35 handpicked Rajasthani folk musicians. You can also experience wildlife film screenings, hot air balloon rides, heritage walks and kalaripayattu performances. When: Jan 27-29, Venue: Nahargarh Palace.
 
 
 At  , a fusion of visual arts, adventure, royal hospitality and musical performances will enthrall visitors. Witness more than 30 gigs by artistes like Indian Ocean, Reggae Rajahs, Bhanwari Devi, classical singer Sunita Amin, saxophonist George Brooks, Ghazi Khan, as well as an experimental theatre experience by The Manganiyar Classroom. Pro-life workshops like horse riding, dirt biking and sand surfing are among other activities lined up. You can also taste authentic Shekhawati delicacies! When: Jan 26-29, Venue: Mandawa.
 
 
 After touring Delhi and Pune, The Gig Week 6.0, which is in its sixth edition, has come to Mumbai for the first time. At this ongoing event, you can witness cutting-edge performances by Aarifah Rebello, Kamakshi Khanna- Collective, Chayan & Smiti, UP7T, RHL, The Last Skeptik, Soulmate, F-16, When Chai Met Toast etc. The fest is about inspiring people to explore and experience different and newer music and interface with artistes from across the world. When: Till Jan 21, Venue: Mumbai.
 
 
 Morapada Beach is readying itself for Nariyal Paani, a weekend seafront music celebration, which is known for bringing together an exciting mix of Indian and international independent artistes. The genres will range from folk, jazz and reggae, to electro-pop, hip-hop and beatboxing. In its third edition, Coconut Water Band, Bellatrix (UK), Anand Bhagat (Drum Circle), Goa Reggae Sunsplash All-Stars and Fiddler’s Green are slated to perform. When: Jan 21-22, Venue: Alibaug.
 
 
 The Indian Music Group, a 43-year-old institution in St Xavier’s College in the city, was established by percussionist maestro Ustad Allah Rakha Khan Sahab. JanFest is their flagship concert, which is thronged by classical music buffs. Previously, the concert has played host to stalwarts like Ustad Shujaat Khan, Bombay Jayashree, Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia, M S Subbulakshmi, Pt Jasraj, Pt Bhimsen Joshi, among several others. The event, open for all, will see Begum Parveen Sultana, Dr Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, Pt Shivkumar Sharma and Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia among others this year. When: Jan 25-26, Venue: Mumbai.
 
 
