AJMER: The   will showcase the   at one place as per a project of the   (ADA).
Called the  , the project will enable various states in the country to set up their state houses to promote tourism and present their rich heritage.
 
 This 'single window' system will also help state to promote their handicraft among devotees and foreign tourists who come to the holy town.
 
 Gujarat and state from south India are expected to open shop at Swastik City.
 
 Pushkar attracts thousands of foreign tourists as well as lakhs of devotees from different parts of the country.
 
 “The concept is to provide a single window to every state and make people aware of the diversity of culture that unites India,“ said Shiv Shanker Heda, chairman of ADA. The ADA has identified land in Kanas, near Pushkar, for the proposed city.
 
 “The structure will be constructed in a Swastik pattern which is a Hindu symbol to show that all states in the country are united. Swastik is also a symbol of fortune,“ added Heda. States will receive a space for a block in this city where they can display their handicraft and culture to attract tourists coming to Pushkar.
 
 A part of the state house can also be run as a guest house for tourists coming to Pushkar.
 
 “The idea is to provide a place for tourists coming to Push kar to better understand the culture of India. These tourists can be foreign or Indian,“ Heda said.
 
 At a meeting of ADA held on Thursday, officials were directed to review such projects regularly. He said that the proposal of was in the initial stage and ADA would invite all states to the proposed city.
 
 A tourist coming to Pushkar will get to understand the culture of Gujarat as well as that of Nagaland and Tamil Nadu at one place.
 
 “The project will also help local devotees coming to Pushkar to better understand the concept of India and the concept of unity in diversity,“ added Heda.
 
 The states will benefit from promoting tourism and attracting tourists coming to Pushkar to venture into other parts of the country.
 
 ADA will now send the proposal to other states through the Rajasthan government.
 
