KOLKATA: A deadly cocktail of toxic gases lurked up the shaft of a business hotel in the dead of night and smothered two guests to death in the city’s high-security diplomatic street on Thursday. The toll could have been much higher but for the prompt response of firemen who rescued 30 guests. Five boarders and a hotel employee sustained injuries. The hotel’s co-owner and an executive were later arrested and slapped non-bailable charges.

  (52) and Anup Aggarwal (53), who choked to death in their fourth-floor rooms, were both employees of  . In the city to attend a meeting, they, and several other colleagues, had put up at   on Ho Chi Minh Sarani — a heavily fortified street where both the British deputy high commission and American consulate are located — because the hotel is just behind Tata Centre, the company head office on Chowringhee. 
 
 The nature and circumstances of the deaths — asphyxia and carbon-monoxide poisoning from fumes spreading through AC ducts — raked up memories of the AMRI Hospital fire in December 2011, in which 92 people, most of them patients, died after a fire broke out in the basement. 
 
 On Thursday, it was a short circuit in the ground floor of Hotel Golden Parkk that generated thick black smoke containing deadly gases like carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. The killer fumes then drifted up the AC ducts and entered the rooms of guests occupying the floors above. 
 
 A malfunctioning smoke detector and alarm meant the occupants did not get time to flee till the smoke had built up. When they did eventually get to know, it was time for desperate measures. Someone jumped off the fourth floor on to the asbestos roof of a room below and plunged right through, sustaining serious injuries. Three others slid down a sewer pipe. Others were rescued by fire brigade personnel. Broken glass panes of the windows and ripped curtains on the hotel façade facing Metro Plaza, the shopping mall, bore testimony to how desperately the boarders tried to escape.
 
 According to a hotel staffer, the short circuit happened right outside the kitchen on the ground floor. The smoke gradually curled upwards, engulfing the hotel and cutting out visibility. 
 
 Fire experts said the absence of dampers in the AC ducts allowed the smoke to spread just as it had in the hospital fire six years ago. Again. like the hospital, the staircase was glassed up and had no windows for the smoke to escape. This not only allowed the smoke to build up, but blocked the only escape route that guests had. It was only after firemen and DMG personnel broke the reinforced glass panels that the smoke finally escaped and paved the way for rescue operations.
 
 Neelanjan Palit, 46, from Purulia had checked into the hotel on Wednesday afternoon. He was shaken out of his slumber by commotion outside his room on the fourth floor. When he figured out he could not escape through the stairs, he decided to risk sliding down the sewer pipe outside his window. “My mind went completely blank. I did not know what to do. For a moment I thought I would die but I could not give up so easily. I decided to slide down the pipe knowing fully well that if I fell I would die anyway,” said Palit.
 
 A disaster management official said the hotel lacked  . “We did see some fire extinguishers but there were no sprinklers,” said officer in charge Amitabha Chakraborty. While the power was switched off as soon as the fire began, there were no emergency lights to assist the guests.
 
 Fire minister Sovan Chatterjee, who visited the hotel, didn’t mince words. “The exits were blocked, the fire-fighting equipment were defunct, the AC ducts were faulty. This gross negligence is shocking. The FIR should serve as a lesson to others. We want exemplary punishment of the accused,” he fumed.
 
