Where do I get a caring   for my baby?’ has become the trending question among new-age mamas soon after childbirth. With the vast majority now living in dual income, nuclear households,   are becoming an essential part of the lives of young couples.
  with the help of a nanny has become the norm among today’s working moms. And for these nannies, who are often lovingly called second mothers or shadow mothers, taking care of a baby is often not a task but a role that they endearingly embrace.
 On  , we talk to some of these nannies, who have turned saviours for working moms and guardian angels for the babies, about the nature of their jobs and the relationship they share with the children and the mothers:
 
 
 
 
 Fifty-five-year-old Vasantha Kumari started working as a nanny at a young age to enjoy motherhood that she was missing in her life.
 “I became a mother myself only after 10 years of my marriage. But I didn’t miss motherhood as I could take care of and pamper newborns as a nanny,” she says. “I have cared for 12 children in my life – babies who were just 90 days old to kids who are 8 years old – and all of them are like my own children.”
 Even after Vasantha had two daughters, she says she decided to continue with the caretaking job. “My sincere love for them has also made them attached to me, so much that at times I had to hide from them to leave the house after work. The real satisfaction from this job is when parents insist that I drop in once a week or month to spend time with the children even though I have completed my job,” says Vasantha.
 The important criteria to a good   is to love children – to patiently pamper and take care of them, says 28-year-old Sindhu G, from Nedumangadu. 
 “I love taking care of babies. Though I have three children, the urge to look after babies was still in me. That’s why I chose this profession,” says Sindhu, who is on her first babysitting duty with a nine-year-old baby girl. “She loves my pampering and wants her mom only for breastfeeding. Though I didn’t gave birth to her, for me she is my fourth child. I cherish the happiness that I see on her face,” Sindhu adds.
 Being a nanny also means that responsibility is doubled. Babyamma, a 50-year-old nanny, says, “I look after a relative’s baby girl. She’s just one year old and has now started to walk, so I am with her round the clock. Recently, she fell while walking and my heart broke. If it was my child, I wouldn’t have been that sad but as she is my responsibility when her parents leave for work, I care for her more than my own.”
 
 
 
 
 To find a devoted nanny has now become more like a treasure hunt for young mothers. Most of them prefer to hire through reference from their friends rather than from agencies.
 Poornima Kumar, a techie and mom of one-year-old girl, says it took her and her husband several months before they could find a suitable nanny.
 “Our hunt began during my final months of pregnancy, and finally found Babyamma to take care of my child. She has been with my baby since Day 1 and she too likes her company,” says Poornima.
 Finding the right nanny also translates to peace of mind, for many mothers. “When my nanny took leave for two months, it was really tough for me,” says Poornima.
 The interim nanny was not so caring and that also irked the baby, she says. “I had to call every hour to check on how the baby was doing and what the nanny was up to. I was so worried that I even thought of setting up a   camera at home so I could monitor the baby,” she says, adding that she is now relieved that her baby is safe in the hands of Babyamma, who resumed her duties.
 If the parents find the nanny to be caring and trustworthy, they do not mind employing her for a longer period.
 Amritha T, a software engineer from Sasthamangalam, says Vasantha, who was referred by her friend, has been with her child for the past eight years.
 “Vasantha chechi has been taking care of my daughter Ammu since she was three months old. She’s eight now and the nanny still takes care of her while I am away at work,” says Amritha. “She takes good care of my daughter’s health than I could. She even cooks special nutritious meals for her at her home and brings them to her.”
 
 
 
 
 Deepa Rahul Ishwar, a techie and anchor, says that babysitters provide that vital help for new mothers like her. “She helps me in the things that I am new to, like bathing the baby. The nanny is a support system for me to take care of my son, who is just four months old, especially when I have to leave home for some emergency,” she says.
 However, that said, she says mothers have to be more hands-on while raising a child. “Sure, nannies are like second mothers, but I don’t want my boy to be more emotionally attached to them than me. If he cries ‘nanny nanny’ instead of 'amma amma' then as a mother there is no meaning for me in his life.”
 
