PATNA: The state government is gearing up to make the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran satyagrah, a non-violence resistance against the British rule in India, a success.
 
  State art, culture and youth affairs minister   said the department is preparing a list of programmes that would be organised from April. Some of the programmes like film festival and heritage walk (Virasat Yatra) have already been finalised. The department will also organise a workshop in which artists from across the country and abroad would be invited to prepare and showcase their work on father of the nation.
  
  “We will invite top 100 artists to take part in the workshop and work on visual arts, such as painting, sculpture, and photography to make the celebration a memorable event,” said Ram.
  
  The film festival, ‘Gandhi Panorma’, will be organised in Patna, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali and West Champaran. Films based on Bapu will be screened.
  
  The minister said Virasat Yatra by Bihar Virasat Vikas Samiti will be organised in Patna, Muzaffarpur, Motihari and some villages of East and West Champaran districts. “People can   or through telephone to participate in the event. If needed, buses will be provided to them,” he added.
  
  Ram said historians like Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library’s former director Imtiaz Ahmad and history teacher Ashok Anshuman will participate in the heritage walk. Gandhian Razi Ahmad and Ramjee Singh have been requested to enlighten people with the philosophies and  
  
  “The heritage walk will focus on Bapu’s life, the importance of Champaran in the national movement and Bihar’s role in India’s independence,” the minister said, adding a quiz competition will also be held at the end of the walk and 10 winners will be awarded with khadi kurta.
  
  Chief minister Nitish Kumar and education minister Ashok Choudhary have been invited by the Gandhi Sangrahalya to release books by local writers on the life of Gandhi and the Chamaparan satyagrah. “We have planned this function on April 18. Other than this, many cultural programmes will also be held,” the minister said.
  
  An album, ‘Çhamparan Satyagrah’, by playback singer   was released by minister Shiv Chandra Ram on Wednesday.
