THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government is all set to bring about a major reform in the   from the   by introducing the concept of ' '. 

 In this system up to 25% of the major schemes under each department that needs to roll out from the first day of the financial year will be included in the green book.
 
 This would mean that all the necessary in-principal clearances for the project will be given before the budget for the next year is passed, avoiding any further time delay.
 
 The finance department has issued the detailed guidelines in this regard, and the order for the new system was issued on January 25. 
 
 The new concept was given in-principle clearance in the plan progress review meeting chaired by chief minister  . 
 
 Under the system, the plan preparation groups (PPG) and the special plan preparation group (SPPG) should give the administrative sanction for such key projects.
 
 According to the government order in this regard, the planning board will inform the tentative allocation for each project proposed to the respective department. 
 
 The finance department has kept an upper limit for the schemes as the total outlay for such schemes of each department that have been cleared for entering into green book should not be more than 25% of the total outlay for the department for 2016-17.
 
 The PPG that is chaired by the secretary of the concerned department will meet for giving administrative sanction for all such projects with financial implications up to Rs 5 crore. 
 
 The SPPG which is headed by the additional chief secretary (finance), in which the secretary of the concerned administrative department is also a member, is empowered to give administrative sanction for all projects up to Rs 10 crore.
 
 The new method has already kick-started with the first SPPG meeting held recently. According to sources in the finance department, the departments lose a fair share of time in the old system, even after the budget is passed.
 
 "The process of giving administrative sanction for a scheme usually consumes three to four months, which means that it would be July when a new project begins rolling. Under the new concept, for those projects that are being included in the green book the in-principle sanction is to be completed by February 21," said sources at the finance department.
 
 The plan expenditure for the departments in the ongoing financial year has been very poor as compared to that of previous years. Till December 31, the state could spend only Rs 6832.7 crore which is only 28.4% of the total plan outlay of Rs 24,000 crore.
 
