BANGALURU: Come October, customers will get to know who is the best trader supplying goods or services as dealers will be rated based on their tax compliance.

 The tax compliance rating, that’ll be on the lines of credit rating of companies, will be done automatically and displayed on the web portal of Goods and   (GSTN).
 
 “As the entire transaction is web-based in the   regime, the technology can be leveraged for various innovations, and tax compliance rating is one such innovation. This is going to be one of the highlights of GST,” said M P  , joint commissioner of commercial taxes.
 
 The rating will done on the basis of best practices of traders, including punctuality in filing tax returns, payment of tax, business attitude, transactional behaviour and other parameters. Officials in the GST Council said the new taxation regime mandates rating of traders so that buyers can choose the best suppliers. 
 
 The   will be between 0 and 10 and the best traders will get 10 rating points. Ritivik Ranjanam Pandey, commissioner of commercial taxes, said the modalities were being worked out and the rating system was expected to be rolled out sometime after the first round of filing tax returns and that tax payments are scheduled to be completed on September 20.
 
 “The GSTN portal will assess the data after completion of filing of tax returns and tax payment. The rating would be displayed instantaneously,” Pandey said.
 
 While the rating system is expected to start in the first week of October, Pandey said the thinking was to give traders some more time so that they are well settled in the new taxation system before they are assessed.
 
 “It would be unfair to give bad ratings at the very first incidence of tax, when even technology may suffer teething troubles. Moreover, it’d be fair to create widespread awareness before rolling out the rating system. So, it may take a little more time after October,” Pandey said, adding that the schedule of the launch is yet to be finalized. 
 
 Tax compliance of traders is, in a way, related to fair pricing of commodities as the dealer has to clearly mention the selling price of the commodity, separated from the tax components on the tax invoice and the same has to be uploaded to the GSTN portal. However, the tax-compliance rating is seen to be significant for business-to business (B2B) customers.
 
 “It is important for companies getting supply from dealers. If the supplier fails to pay tax, then the purchaser would not get the input tax credit. So, it is significant to know the supplier’s compliance before placing order,” said  , vice-president of Clear Tax, the e-filing website that has been shortlisted as GST Suvidha Provider ( ).
 
 A GSP is an agency identified by the GST Council to provide IT solutions and GST process assistance to companies and individual traders; 34 agencies have been identified as GSPs. Apart from GSPs, Assistant GST Suvidha Providers (ASPs) are there in the market to help traders.
 
 Mehta said several GSPs have already started giving orientation to their clients and Clear Tax has instituted an internal rating system for its clients.
 
 
 
 
 With GST rolled out on July 1, both traders and consumers are getting used to the new taxation system. In the normal course, traders are expected to file their monthly tax returns online on or before the 10th of every month and pay tax before the 20th. However, the government has given time till August 20 to file the first returns for the month of July, which would be a sort of soft-launch. Traders have to follow the regular procedure from September. 
 
