PUNE: A   (MACT) has ruled that a man with an independent source of income cannot be seen as a “dependent” entitled to a share in compensation for his wife’s death in a road accident.

 D D Deshmukh, presiding member of the tribunal, ruled in an order on January 7 that the two minor sons solely dependent on the mother in the case must get equal compensation considering their welfare.
 
 The tribunal directed the Mumbai-based firm Modern Road Makers Private Limited and the IFFCO Tokio General   Company to jointly pay Rs 35.05 lakh compensation to the two minor sons of the woman killed in a road accident in Lonavla in December 2010.
 
 The firm and insurer have been directed to pay interest at 8% p.a. since March 16, 2011, when the petition was registered, till realization. The interest component works out to be over Rs 14 lakh and would grow till actual payment.
 
 Interior decorator   (32) of Lonavla was run over by a speeding dumper belonging to the firm around 2.30pm on December 24, 2010. The Lonavla city police had registered an offence against the driver.
 
 In February 2011, Vaishali’s husband,   (37) and sons, Siddharth (5) and Arham (3), jointly moved a petition before the MACT claiming Rs 50 lakh compensation from the dumper owner and the insurance company.
 
 The tribunal held in its order that the applicant (Pankaj) has been a working professional architect for the last 15 years with an annual income between Rs 6 lakh and Rs 8 lakh. 
 
 “As such, he holds independent income and cannot be said as dependent so as to receive compensation,” the tribunal observed.
 
 The presiding member observed, “At the time of accident, the minor applicants, Siddharth and Arham, 4 and 2 years old, respectively. It cannot be ignored that both children have lost their mother at an early age.”
 
 “Considering the fact that applicant has permanent income, he is not entitled to get any share in the compensation as a dependent. However, the minor applicants were solely dependent on their mother and, therefore, are entitled to get compensation equally,” the tribunal ruled.
 
 Lawyer B B Suryavanshi, who represented the petitioners, told TOI, “The tribunal has directed that 80% of the overall compensation amount be deposited in a nationalized bank and shall be distributed equally among the sons on their turning major. The remaining 20% amount is to be given to Pankaj to spend on the welfare of the children.” 
 
