The breathtaking   is more than a popular tourist destination in the state. Its breathtaking locales has mesmerized soapmakers who have trained their cameras and shot entire episodes here.
 
  The backdrop of this wonderful desert region is being showcased in two Gujarati shows Saavaj and Suri and a Hindi show  , set in a small village of Kutch. Even in the past,   starring   and   was set in the backdrop of Kutch. Every culture and backdrop brings with it a set of quirks and distinct qualities which appeal to the viewers' sensibilities.
  
  
 
  
  The Gujarati community projects a very unique personality; the colours, vibrancy and grandeur incorporated in not only special celebrations but also everyday life and Kutch is one region where inspite of desert ­ the topography is lush green.What makes this belt so inspiring for showmakers?
  
  Saba Khan, producer-writer of Yeh Moh Moh Ke Dhaagey shares, “We wanted a story of village boy and city girl and their unusual love story, so the best location we could work out was Kutch.We went to explore villages there, researched on art-works, food, dialect and lots more by interacting with local people. Our art-director went to local market and picked some wonderful artefacts and properties for the set which we created in Mumbai. Kutch is so rich in its culture that we were totally sure to work out the story around it.“
  
  Even the producer of Saavaj, Himanshu Sanghvi says, “Our daily is set in the Rann of Kutch section where we completed a large shoot schedule to capture a typical village and its ethnicities. During the shoot, we tried to focus on the wonderful aesthetic aspects of Kutch and we are glad that audience are appreciating the stories that come from a zone which has hardships. Kutch is not just a backdrop but, it is a character in our show. Also, in Gujarat ­ there have been a many stories from Kutch that are waiting to be shared ­ and our show is one such attempt.“
  
  Even actors have an amazing time while working in such a vibrant and colorful backdrop like Kutch.Actor Eijaz Khan shares, “It was wonderful exploring Kutch. I even sampled some delicious Gujarati food. I love the fact that despite the tough terrain that Kutch is, the locals are so full of life. I have tried to bring in the same spirit in my character in the show.“
  
  Janak Thakkar from thr show Suri shares, “My headgears, costumes ­ make me enjoy the role even more. Not just that, it makes me feel more connected and proud of the state I belong to. I have been to Kutch so many times and it certainly has so many more stories and elements that film-makers and daily soaps can highlight.“
  
  With these myriad hues that Kutch is offering, looks may be we will see more small screen shows set in the headturning locales in the near future.
