LUCKNOW: Indian Industries Association (IIA), an apex representative body of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), studied the Industrial Investment and Employment Policy of Uttar Pradesh-2017 and found that the policy is more inclined towards large scale investment and Industries rather than Small Scale Industries. It said that the bulk of the employment is generated in Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME’s) rather than Large Scale Industries. Contribution of   sector is also almost equivalent to large scale sector in terms of manufacturing output and Exports in the state.

 Hence it claimed that MSME Sector is required to be given more attention compared to Large Scale Sector which is missing in the current policy announced on July 4, 2017. IIA has therefore demanded a separate ‘MSME Development Policy’ in Uttar Pradesh. As per Annual Report of Ministry of  , 5238568 MSME establishments exists in Uttar Pradesh giving employment to 11396965 persons. Assuming an average family size of 5 persons, MSME sector in UP is feeding 5.7 crore population which is more than one-fourth of the total population of the state. As such MSME sector forms the backbone of economic progress and overall development of the state. It is also noted that the UP’s contribution to the national economy is 8.4% which is half of its share in total population which is 16.5%.
 
 IIA proposes that the contribution of Uttar Pradesh to National economy should be at par with the share in population. It said that the MSME sector in UP has tremendous scope for improvement and the development of MSME’s will greatly contribute to bridge the gap. The demand of IIA is supported by a ‘White Paper on MSME Policy in UP’ which is prepared by IIA after extensive research and study. The research was conducted for states in India, which are perceived as industrially developed, industrially developing, industrially backward and industrially grooming (Prospective Developed) states. These states include Gujarat, Haryana and  , which have been known as the preferred destination for industrial setups now strategically inclined towards global outreach, yet protecting and promoting the interest of their MSME entrepreneurs.
 
 The IIA study includes 15 states including Uttar Pradesh that is Gujarat,  , Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Karnataka,  , Orissa, Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, and Maharashtra & Uttar Pradesh. These states MSME centric policy were given detailed attention and benchmarked for analysing the best policy and practices across states. After benchmarking the best practices, direct inputs from the entrepreneurs and industry representatives were taken which was further enhanced by taking opinions of practicing professionals & advisors. Thirdly, the expert opinions bridged the identified gaps which may be of help to improve the policy..
 
 IIA delegation led by the president IIA Sunil Vaish have already met Principal Secretary MSME & Export Promotion Uttar Pradesh on July 5, 2017 and submitted this ‘White Paper on MSME Policy in UP’ to him. A copy of the White Paper has also been handed over to the Chief Secretary UP while welcoming him on July 5 in his chamber at Lucknow. IIA also raised the concern on the functioning of Udyog Bandhu in the meeting with Principal Secretary MSME & Export Promotion. IIA mentioned that it is surprised to note that there is no mention of improving Udyog Bandhu functioning in the Industrial Policy. The online single window clearance system which was designed by IIA in 2006 for Government of UP and was tailored to MSME’s needs is dysfunctional now and Nivesh Mitra portal is tailored for the needs of big investments & industries. IIA gave an offer to the Principal Secretary MSME & Export promotion to redesign an online system for the solution of the problems / grievances of MSME’s as well as to reestablish the online single table system for MSMEs.
 
