KOLKATA: Liquor industrialists in West Bengal welcomed the state government’s move to denotify some stretches of state highways passing through municipalities to let the shops selling alcoholic beverages on those areas skirt the   order given on December 15, 2016. 

 Parag Mitra, a liquor industry veteran, feels this would save the livelihood of many. “There could have been an adverse impact on employment. Another thing that could have been affected was tourism,” he said.
 
 An official of   seconded Mitra. “The state government move will save a lot of jobs,” he added. 
 
 However, the official added the real impact could have been much more. “Each employee has a family of at least three. So, the livelihood of over 15,000 people could be saved now,” he added. Going forward, the excise department can assess other modalities like stretches of state highways in panchayat areas where population is less than 20,000, he told TOI. 
 
 There are 2,140 liquor shops on highways — both national and state — across Bengal. Out of this, 1,500 are on state highways. “If a panchayat with less than 20,000 population can be identified, then at least 500 more shops can resume operations,” he added. 
 
 The liquor industry was worried with Rs 450-crore worth of alcohol stock with the   shops on highways which had to close down on April 1. In West Bengal, the excise year starts from April, so the licenses of these shops were not renewed following the Supreme Court order.
 
 IMFL wholesalers here, too, were worried because it had around Rs 200 crore outstanding with these liquor shops. “The SC ruling had blocked Rs 200 crore. But, following this denotification, we hope to recover something,” said a leading wholesaler and a member of the West Bengal Foreign Liquor Manufacturer Wholesalers and Bonders Association.
 
 The wholesalers are worried because the state government is planning to take up the wholesale distribution business of liquor. Wholesalers have over Rs 450 crore due with the retailers which they are trying to recover.  , secretary, West Bengal Foreign Liquor, Country Spirit (Off & On) and Hotel Owners’ Association, said: “We are grateful to the Bengal government for denotifying state highways. But the government must seek legal opinion to find a way to save the liquor outlets along the NHs.” 
 
 Mihir Chakraborty, assistant general secretary of  , said: “We are indeed grateful to the state government for the way it has taken a proactive role. We appealed to the Bengal CM and finance minister on this issue. Removing the liquor counters 500m from highways, as ordered by the SC, is not feasible. But we still appeal to the CM for talking to the Centre so that some relaxation on our operation on NHs.”
 
 There are total 5,500 liquor outlets in the state and a major chunk as per the figure is on the highways. 
 
