NEW DELHI: BJP feels it has received a small slice of Muslim women votes in Uttar Pradesh and this could be due to the party’s vocal opposition to the practice of instant divorce through “triple talaq”. 

 The feedback gathered by the party, sources said, pointed to a silent vote from a small section of Muslim women even as the community, as expected, voted for BJP’s opponents in large numbers.
 
 BJP leaders see this as a validation of the Centre’s position in the Supreme Court that the issue was one of gender justice and even personal laws needed to be reformed if they were at variance with constitutional provisions such as right to equality.
 
 During the UP campaign, Union law minister   had said that the Modi government was committed to end the “evil social practice” of triple talaq. “The government respects faith but worship and social evil cannot coexist,” he had said during a press conference in Lucknow.
 
 Prime Minister   raised the issue in a rally in Budelkhand in October last year when electioneering was yet to heat up, when he said lives of Muslim women could not be “ruined” by the custom of triple talaq and said the issue should not be given a Hindu-Muslim colour.
 
 BJP sources said the issue did find resonance among Muslim women and the instances of gender injustice due to instant divorce was not uncommon in UP. The practice had caused much suffering and left women and children vulnerable to the vagaries of the personal law and its interpretation.
 
 The support it believes it has received has encouraged BJP to ensure the Centre pursues the case against triple talaq with vigour in the SC where any change in the personal law is being opposed by conservative Muslim groups.
 
 BJP has argued that the triple talaq issue is separate from the demand for a uniform civil code. The party used the issue as part of its poll rhetoric to attack “secular” parties, asking them to spell out positions on the controversy. 
 
 The party feels that triple talaq served to highlight the willingness of its opponents to see such issues as part of “politics of appeasement” the BJP has opposed.
 
