Patients and public have always felt confused about the difference between plastic and  . Myths and facts also surround this subject as well as the kind of specialist one should go for treatment.  , professor and head of the department of plastic surgery at King George Hospital-Andhra Medical College, replies to readers about various aspects of the surgery.

 1) What is plastic surgery?
 
 Plastic surgery is a branch of medicine (surgery) which deals with correcting deformities and improving appearance of people. It’s an art and science of surgery that aims at restoring the function of a deformed part with acceptable form by following fine surgical principles.
 
 2) Is plastic surgery and cosmetic surgery one and the same?
 
 Cosmetic surgery is an integral part of plastic surgery. Cosmetic surgery deals with improving the appearance of various body parts by surgical procedures. On the other hand, plastic surgery is broadly divided into reconstructive surgery and cosmetic surgery.
 
 3) What is reconstructive surgery?
 
 Reconstructive surgery deals with operative procedures to restore normalcy of an abnormal part resulting from various reasons like burns, injuries, cancer, birth defects and infections.
 
 4) Which part of the body is suitable for plastic surgery and at what age?
 
 Any part of the body from head to toe may require plastic surgery depending on deformity, disability or disfigurement. Plastic surgery may be required at any age starting from new born to those in the dusk of life.
 
 5) Do plastic surgeons work in association with other specialists?
 
 Yes. Some of surgical procedures by other specialties such as general surgery, orthopedics, oncology, ENT and ophthalmology need back up from plastic surgeons.
 
 6) What are the possible risks of plastic surgery?
 
 The risks or complications of plastic surgery are no different from any other surgical procedure. In fact, the surgical complications after plastic surgery are comparatively less due to fine handling of tissues.
 
 7) Will there be any scarring after plastic surgery?
 
 Yes. There will be scarring after plastic surgery too. However the scars after plastic surgery are less visible due various precautions taken including using fine surgical technique, delicate sutures and placing cuts in skin lines and hidden areas.
 
 8) What kind of anaesthesia is given to patients during plastic surgery?
 
 The type of anesthesia whether local or general depend on factors such as the body part to be operated, duration of surgery, age of the patient and cooperation of the patient.
 
 9) How should one choose the right plastic surgeon or cosmetic surgeon?
 
 A qualified plastic surgeon alone should be chosen who possess M.Ch and/or   degree in plastic surgery obtained from a   (MCI) recognised institute and registered in the  . Of course, one should look for experience also among qualified specialists.
 
 10) Can other specialists perform cosmetic surgery?
 
 Ideally, plastic surgeons alone should perform cosmetic surgery as they possess the requisite training of three years after acquiring a master’s degree in surgery.
 
 
