As health agencies continue to harp on the importance of exercise, a lot of youngsters in the city are turning towards long distance running. The 11000 plus   community is a testimonial to the same. However, now at least 50 to 60 percent of this community has opted to club two of their interests, running and  , for what they call as Runacations.

 “People are bored of taking weekend trips to clichéd places nearby and eating junk food. Healthy eating and healthy living is now their mantra. Even on vacations they do not want to miss out their workout. Plus, various runs are being offered at scenic places. Like the one in Kundalika valley; people have a nice weekend where they go for the   in the morning and river rafting in the evening,” says Nikhil Shah, who is considered to be someone who gave impetus to the running culture in the city.
 
 Just like any ordinary vacation, youngsters are planning for leaves and working to save money in advance, so that they can indulge in runacations at faraway places as well. Whether it is the lesser explored areas or thriving cities, each location has its charm for these runners.
 
 According to Shah, what makes these runacations more interesting is the fact that these marathons let you venture in places where otherwise entry is restricted. “There is Indian Naval Academy’s Land of Legends Marathon on the Kerala Coast which allows you explore unseen beaches of God’s own country. This makes their vacation much more enjoyable,” informs Shah.
 
  
 The geographical boundaries of these outings are not restricted to the country, but span across the globe. Samir Chitre, a city-based professional, has travelled to South Africa for an ultramarathon of 89 kms. “I run most of the outstation marathons with my family. It really unwinds us and we understand the different cultures,” he says. Not only this, even on his official tours, he is equipped with running gear, trying to turn it into a  .
 
 For Bhavesh Shah, another city-based running enthusiast, these vacations are a hub of knowledge. “Wherever we travel for a vacation, the timing for venturing out is such that most of the roads are clogged with traffic. However, when on a  , you are out early in the morning when there is no traffic. You get the feel of the city, its aura and you can learn about the culture of the people.”
 
 For him, the experience is much more relaxing, than running for exercise in the city. “Running against the backdrop of the same roads and the people after a certain point gets redundant. But in a different city, the ambience totally changes and this relaxes your mind,” he feels.
 
 As the city changes, so do the roads, the people and the running culture. While energy drinks remain common at most places, in the southern areas of the country on the Kaveri river bed, there is a tradition of offering dates as an energy snack to the participants. This exploration of various cultures is what makes these vacations fascinating feel the city youngsters.
 
 “The excitement of reaching the destination, running with different people from different backgrounds at scenic places is totally different experience. Every vacation of mine is a runacation. If there is any location on my bucket list, I first identify a marathon there and then match my dates accordingly. Unknowingly, it has also helped me explore smaller places which I otherwise wouldn’t have travelled to. Like, I went to this place called Chitkul near Indo-Tibet border. It was a small run, but the beautiful scenery around and the adventure made the vacation memorable,” said Sofia Khan a city based fashion designer.
 
 Mayuri.Phadnis@timesgroup.com
 
