HYDERABAD: On the directions of CM K  , the state government is actively considering utilising the services of registered medical practitioners (RMPs) for implementation of medical and health schemes offered by the government to make Telangana a healthy state. 

 There are 46,000 registered medical practitioners the data of which is available with the government. However, it is expected that altogether, there could be about one lakh MPs, para medical practitioners in the 31 districts of Telangana.
 
 Officials said the proposal to resume the training course and award certificates to RMPs so that their services could be integrated in the health system of the State, "within the ambit of protocols" is also positively being considered.
 
 It may be mentioned that over 46,000 registered medical practitioners have come under one umbrella to take up their cause and recently met health minister C   to demand that the Telangana government too launch "mohalla clinics" on the lines of the one functioning in north India and formally utilise the services of RMPs.
 
 They urged Laxma Reddy to ensure that the government resumes "training classes" for RMPs, gives them identity cards and utilises their services for implementation of medical and health schemes in villages, in addition to letting them maintain health data at the village level.
 
 Also, they wanted the government to come out with clear guidelines on categories of minor ailments that RMPs are formally allowed to treat and the medicines they can prescribe to the patients. The Telangana RMPs joint action committee co-chairman   said the training programme-cum-certificate awarding course was started uring the erstwhile YS   government in undivided AP, but stopped mid-way due to the Telangana agitation and the subsequent formation of the state.
 
 "TRS government issued a GO in June 2015 recognising the services of RMPs and PMPs. But clause 14, 15 and 16 in the GO need to be amended. Government does not want RMPs to call themselves doctors. If RMPs are not allowed to prescribe machines and give injections as per their diagnosis of the patient, the what will will they do," asked S  , another JAC leader.
 
