COIMBATORE: Credit card use is on the rise among urban Indian consumers. Results of an online   released on Tuesday by   found that 19% of urban consumers are likely to apply for a credit card in the future.

 The results showed an increase in credit card use among urban Indian consumers over the last 12 months with more than half (57%) of credit card holders saying they used their   more often now than they did a year ago.
 
 “Our survey shows that consumers today are confident using credit for daily purchases,” said  , vice-president and head of TransUnion CIBIL’s direct-to-consumer business. 
 
 When asked to select all of the ways they have used credit cards in the last 12 months, 59% of the survey participants said that they used their credit cards to pay bills; 53% said they used them for large purchases and 45% used them over other forms of payment to gain discounts and other rewards.
 
 The research also showed that credit card usage varies demographically in India. The most common reason young adults aged 18-24 use credit cards over other forms of payment is because they don’t like to carry cash, as almost one quarter (24%) noted in the survey, compared to 14% of credit card holders aged 45 years and older.
 
 Comparatively, the most common reason older adults aged 45 and above gave for using credit cards over other forms of payment is more of a traditional one– it because it enables them to make a purchase now and pay for it later (33%).
 
 Only 13% of those card holders aged 18-24 selected the same as their primary use for credit cards instead of other forms of payment. Despite increased credit card reliance, not all Indian credit card holders are using their credit cards responsibly.
 
 For example, 29% said in the past 12 months, they spent more on the credit cards than they had budgeted and 20% said they have taken longer than planned to pay down credit card balances. TransUnion CIBIL, in partnership with leading global research provider YouGov Plc, surveyed urban Indian adults online in the middle of July this year.
 
 “Credit cards have a direct impact on one’s credit score as they provide insight into how consumers make borrowing decisions,” Mehta said. “Consumers who use credit cards must be vigilant about their CIBIL score. They must take time to understand how it works and how using their credit card affects their score each month,” he said.
 
 
