HYDERABAD: Telangana and Andhra Pradesh together have over 50.79 lakh people who suffer from one of the globally identified 7,000 types of rare diseases. But neither the state nor the Centre recognise the concept of rare disease, leaving hapless parents struggling to cope.

 Experts attending the   in the city on Tuesday called for mandatory   before marriage as well as doing away with   to avoid genetic disorders in children.
 
 “In 25% pregnancies in consanguineous marriages, children may have genetic disorders,“ warned  , senior consultant paediatrician (genetic engine ering), Rainbow Women's Hospital. “Most such disorders cannot be identified at the foetus stage. There is urgent need for a policy for compulsory blood screening for newborns between third and seventh day to detect genetic disorders in public sector,“ Dr Devi said.The newborn randomised tandem screening costs Rs 3,000 in the private sector and detects 59 types of genetic disorders.
 
 While Sickle Cell anaemia and Thalassemia are known, few are aware of very rare genetic diseases such as lysoso mal storage disorder (there are six types). Then there is hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathy (HSAN), a disease where one doesn't feel pain.
 
 “There are about 500 children suffering with HSAN in the world. There are five different types and only US has the expertise,“ said city-based Sanaullah Syed, member, Indian Organisation for Rare Diseases (IORD), who has two children ­ one 15-year-old and another 10-year-old ­ with HSAN type 5 disease.
 
 “There are very few experts specialising in handling HSAN type 5 disease. Only symptomatic treatment is available for the children in my family now,“ he added.
 
 Worse, there are no drugs for most of these rare diseases.“In the US, there is a functional concept of Orphan Drugs Act, 1983, where drugs are available in the market for treating 326 rare diseases. But in India, no pharmaceutical company manufacturers drugs for rare diseases as it is not commercially viable,“ said Dr Mutyala Krishnaji Rao, IORD secretary and a former scientist.
 
