BHOPAL: Removing an encroachment in ‘smart city’ Bhopal just got a little more cumbersome. Now all agencies including   ( ) would only be able to carry out an   after a nod from the district administration.

 Anti-encroachment drive will only be held only on a Sunday. Notwithstanding, the reality that half of the city markets are closed on Sunday. 
 
 The decision came after a high level meeting with district collector Nishant Warwade, DIG Raman Singh Sikarwar along with senior district and police officials, here on Monday. The agencies would have to seek sanction from the ADM before launching any anti-encroachment operation. The agency would be supported by the police. 
 
 The directives also calls for mandatory presence of support female cops, in case the anti-encroachment drive affects women. As per the directive, every Friday ADM G P Mali will be submitted a list of locations for carrying out anti-encroachment drive by government departments and agencies. A final decision on the same would be taken by district administration.
 
 On Sunday, BJP corporators’ had protested over alleged assault on a woman by BMC anti-encroachment sleuths. Following protests, BMC removed Qamar Saquib as the lead anti-encroachment officer for the civic body. 
 
 The victim is a resident of Bhim Nagar and was admitted to JP hospital on Sunday. She alleged that BMC staff assaulted her. “JP hospital medical report did not cite any assault,” said a BMC official.
 
 Since the alleged incident, BMC administration came out in support its staffers. “The decision to remove the officer would have ramifications far and beyond. If administration gets influenced by local politicians, it would affect the moral of the civic body officials,” said a BMC official. 
 
 Off the record, BMC officials blame local politicians for encouraging encroachments. “There are numerous instances when local corporators stand in front to stop illegal demolitions. Does the local administration take action against them,” he said. Recently, MLA Surendranath Singh took offence removal of illegal structures near Habibganj RoB.
 
 The decision to act against BMC official, in the light of medical report absolving BMC of the alleged incident has irked many. Taking a dig at the BJP mayor, BMC leader of opposition Mohammed Sagheer said, “The indication is that BMC staffers can only act against illegal operators once local BJP leader agrees. The move will incite more corruption. Encroachers will get a boost from this decision.”
 
 Local BJP leader and senior BMC corporator, Krishna Mohan Soni said, “Involvement of the ADM will bring about transparency to anti-encroachment drives. It would protect BMC staffers.” Privately, some senior BJP corporators are also against the decision.
 
 
 
 
 Last year, a mobile court headed by a judicial magistrate would settle cases and pronounce ‘justice at door step’ in the state capital was launched. The court, presided over by a municipal magistrate. 
 
 The measure lasted a few runs. 
 
 In 2015, former BMC commissioner Tejaswi Nayak launched one of the strongest anti-encroachment drives in Bhopal in recent times. Scores of markets including New Market, MP Nagar and other got their open spaces back, temporarily. Soon, Naik was replaced and the encroachment re-appeared.
 
 Local corporators makes the most of encroached spaces and parking lots. BMC revenue from renting out open spaces is less than Rs 23 lakh per year. A shop in new market rented for about Rs 20 per day, is privately sublet for 40,000 a month or about Rs 1,500 a day. 
 
 Encroachment mafia in the city has roots across political parties. Very often, corporators are seen pressuring BMC officials to permit such violations.
 
