NEW DELHI: A day after lieutenant governor   declared 89 Delhi villages as urban areas, the   government announced its intent on Thursday to declare 95 villages as development areas within a week to allow the implementation of the land pooling policy and thus free hitherto unpermitted land to create affordable housing in the capital.

 “The chief minister had promised that the land pooling policy would be approved after the municipal elections,” said Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain. The declaration of 95 villages as development area “would help   in providing 20-25 lakh houses in the planned areas of the city”, he added.
 
 Of the 89 newly urbanised areas, 50 are in north Delhi and 39 in south Delhi. While the villages to come under the pooling policy are located on the city outskirts, Jain said “the land use of villages on the capital’s borders will continue to be agricultural because we need green spaces”.
 
 Jain said the disagreements on the policy between the government and DDA had been resolved. “DDA has agreed to give us land free of cost for social welfare projects like schools, hospitals, and   use,” said the minister.
 
 In October 2015, Delhi government transferred the gram sabha land in these 95 villages to its revenue department. Sources said this decision was taken to help the government keep the gram sabha land for its own infrastructure projects after the villages handed over their land to DDA for pooling.
 
 Now, say sources, the revenue department will initiate the second step of the policy and declare the villages as development areas. With the policy pending for so long, DDA officials pointed out cases of builders selling flats in the villages where the policy would be implemented. Recently, DDA issued a notice warning people that land pooling policy was yet to be operationalised.
 
 The policy was notified in September 2013, but the regulations for its implementations were notified only in May 2015. The policy favours those who provide DDA with larger land parcels. On contributing 2-20 hectares to the land pool, the developer entity will be compensated with plots measuring 48% of the original. For 20 hectares or more, the developer entity will get 60% of the land, but not necessarily at the same location. The developer will be permitted to build residential, commercial, public and semi-public facilities.
 
 DDA will be responsible for the development of basic civic infrastructure like sewerage and water lines in the area. The land-owning agency will also collect external development charges for building infrastructure from those who give up land for pooling.
 
