If you are not a  , you will not be served   at private hospitals in Ahmedabad. Hospitals, in general, are not known for serving  . However, patients here face a different sort of problem, revealed a Mirror Check. Hospitals here force you to follow vegetarianism, especially if you are Indian. They either flatly refuse to serve non-vegetarian food to Indians, or ask you to shift to the international ward to get the fare of your choice. These same hospitals have no such restrictions for foreigners admitted there. In their defence, the hospitals claim that they serve vegetarian food to Indian patients ‘to respect the sentiments of the majority’, but make an exception for foreign patients ‘as they aren’t used to vegetarian food’.

 UN-FARE PRACTICE AT HOSPITALS
 Mirror visited eight hospitals to check the ground reality. Of these, Sterling, Columbia Asia, Zydus, and SAL -- serve vegetarian fare to patients and their relatives. They also do not allow people to eat non-vegetarian food on the premises, even if it has been brought from home. Of the four remaining hospitals, CIMS and HCG serve non-vegetarian fare but only to foreign patients. They do not cook the food on the premises. Instead, they order it from eateries. At Apollo hospital, non-vegetarian food is prepared on the premises and served freely to foreign patients. Indians are served non-vegetarian food only if there is a “medical requirement”. Non-vegetarian food is prepared and served to both Indian and foreign patients at Krishna Shalby, provided the Indian patients shift to the international wing of the hospital. None of these hospitals have issued or put up any official notification in this regard.
 
 Taking objection to the unfair treatment, bank officer J K Nair (49), whose wife was recently hospitalised, says, “This is discrimination, plain and simple. We cannot be treated as second-grade people in our own country for something as rudimentary as our food choices. If hospitals think it is okay for a foreign patient to consume non-vegetarian food, what ground do they have to deny us the same option?” Mohammed Jamaluddin (52), an engineer whose nephew has been hospitalised for the past 10 days, says, “The hospital may not want to cook non-vegetarian food in its kitchen but they should at least allow us to bring it from home. We respect other people’s feelings. We can eat it in a secluded corner or in our room with our relatives.
 
 I have been to hospitals in Mumbai and they do not have any such restrictions. No one should be deprived of the basic freedom to eat what they want.” Businessman Abbas Manji Pir Bhai also pointed out that such discrimination existed only here. “My daughter was admitted to a hospital in Delhi for afew weeks. They offered non-vegetarian fare to all patients, whether Indian or foreign,” says the 67-year-old. Satbir Singh (24), an engineer, believes food goes a long way in curing a patient as much as medicines do. “Being a non-vegetarian, I know that chicken soup would make me feel much better than tomato soup would. So long as I am having it in my private space, it should not be a problem for anybody.”
 
 Meanwhile, hospitals claim they do not offer non-vegetarian fare to Indian patients out of respect. Dr Nikhil Lala, centre head of Sterling says, “I see no need for our hospital to provide non-vegetarian food as it is not a medical need. We ensure that the patient’s protein requirement is fulfilled through vegetarian food.” Bhanupratap Hada, operation head of Zydus confirms, “We do not serve non-vegetarian food in our hospitals. We have our own kitchen and patients are not allowed food from outside.” SAL Hospital refused to issue an official statement, but clarifies that it serves only vegetarian food.
 
 Apollo hospital states, “A variety of specialised meals, including non-vegetarian fare, are provided to our patients on the advice of our doctors and dieticians. We have separate kitchen and storage facilities for cooking vegetarian and non-vegetarian food items.” Dr Bharat Gadhvi, regional director of HCG Gujarat, admits that Indians and foreigners were offered separate fares at the hospital. “We get nonvegetarian food from outside for international patients only. For the rest of the patients and their relatives everything is strictly vegetarian.”
 
 ‘80PER CENT PATIENTS ARE VEGETARIANS’
 On allowing non-vegetarian food only to foreigners, Dr Anish Chandarana, executive director of CIMS hospital clarifies, “It is hard for international patients to sustain a vegetarian diet as they are not used to it. Hence, we get it for them from hotels. The reason why hospitals have adopted a vegetarian- only policy for Indians is because 80 per cent of patients tend to be vegetarian and they may have a very strong emotional reaction to people who eat non-vegetarian food around them.” Explaining why Indian patients have to be shifted to another wing if they want to have non-vegetarian fare, Shanay Vikram Shah, director of Shalby hospitals says, “We have a separate kitchen on the top floor for non-vegetarian food. The international wing is located on the floor below it and all the patients there are provided non-vegetarian food. If there are any Indian patients who need non-vegetarian fare, they can have it after shifting to the international wing.”
 
 DIFFERENT CITIES, DIFFERENT POLICIES
 Interestingly, some hospitals which have branches in Ahmedabad as well as other cities have policies that differ according to the city it is in. For example, Columbia Asia of Ahmedabad allows only vegetarian but their Bangalore branch has no restrictions upon non-vegetarian food. Gaurav Anand, general manager of Columbia Asia, confirms they allow “only vegetarian” food in the hospital. However, Pratyush Srivastava, general manager of Columbia Asia Hospital at Whitefield in Bangalore says, “We serve non-vegetarian food to patients and their kin. We do not allow outside food in the hospital.
 
 The food served here is prepared in our kitchen as per guidelines from the dietician.” A hospital has every right to institute rules, but then it should be implemented without discrimination, avers designer Reuben Vaz (23). “If their policy is pro-vegetarian, then it should be the same for everyone. If the Indians are not being provided non-vegetarian food, then foreigners should not be provided the same. It is not like foreigners have never had vegetarian food in their entire lives. It shouldn’t be a problem for them to survive on it for a few days. People should not be divided based on their food choices,” he says.
 
 
 
