CUTTACK: Traders of  , the state's biggest wholesale commodity market, are up in arms against the   (CMC).

  Angry over the pathetic sanitation condition of Malgodown, traders have threatened not to pay holding tax to the civic body from June if immediate measures are not taken to improve the ambience.
 
 Traders have alleged that Malgodown is plagued with a plethora of problems and the CMC has conveniently turned a blind eye towards them. The area is not swept properly, garbage is not lifted for days and drains are not cleaned properly due to which sanitation of Malgodown is in a shambles. Over 1,500 traders do business at Malgodown and it attracts not less than 25,000 customers on a given day but there is not a single toilet in the area. 
 
 Due to lack of toilets, traders and customers are forced to relieve themselves on the roadsides which worsens the scenario. Even dustbins are also not put up in the area due to which people throw garbage on roads. Along with it, the wholesale market faces problem of inadequate street lights and lack of drinking water facility. 
 
 Traders have alleged that dismal civic facilities at Malgodown and nearby  , state's biggest wholesale vegetable market, have taken a toll on their trade also. The unhygienic environment also poses fear of spread of diseases. 
 
 Heaps of garbage, rotten vegetables strewn all around, muck-filled roads and stench emanating from clogged drains have now turned synonymous with Malgodown. "Apart from retailers, we hardly receive any local customers as people do not like to come here. Along with it, due to awful ambience the area has turned a breeding ground of mouse, said general secretary of Cuttack Chamber of Commerce B K Mohanty. He alleged that for years traders have been appealing to CMC to take measures to clean the area properly but in vain.
 
 A delegation of traders had met mayor   recently on the issue and had apprised her of the situation. "Every time we only get fake assurances from CMC authorities. Hence we have decided that none of the traders will pay holding tax to the CMC from June onwards," said Mohanty. 
 
 If CMC is not doing any development work in the area then whats the use of paying it taxes. "We will instead spend the tax money on ensuring cleanliness in the area," added Mohanty.
 
 Mohanty claimed that CMC earns not less than Rs 2 crore from Malgodown towards holding taxes. Besides, the traders also pay trade licence fee to the civic body also.
 
 However, mayor Behera claimed that measures are being taken to resolve their problems. "Sanitary officers have been directed to survey the area and take appropriate measures to ensure cleanliness of Malgodown. We are also looking for a suitable land in the locality on which we can build toilets," said the mayor. 
 
