PUNE: Demonetisation and the recent service tax hike have crippled the travel industry , casting a shadow on the future of several firms.
Travel companies claimed that the moves had hit the travel industry hard.They stressed the upward revision of the service tax would encourage businesses of `foreign-funded' online travel portals because they do not have to pay service tax.
 
 Seeking a level playing field, the aviation and tourism committee of the   recently approached the government.
 
 The government this year changed the service tax applicable on tour operators.With effect from January 22, tour operators have been told to pay service tax on 60% of the total invoice value. As a result, customers have to pay an extra 4.5% of the total billed amount as against the earlier norm.
 
 “This is resulting in travel firms losing business.For instance, a couple that had booked for an all-inclusive Dubai package from us recently for Rs 82,000 later as ked us not to book the hotel because they had to pay an extra Rs 7,000 or so for the trip just as service tax. They told us to provide only the sightseeing services. They booked their room in a Dubai hotel on their own because it was not charging any service tax. This translated into considerable loss for me. The service tax has always been a soft target to collect a big chunk of money for the government treasury ,“ a travel company director told TOI on the condition of anonymity .
 
 A travel company honcho said, “If clients feel that booking directly online for hotels and travel deals is cheaper (on account of not having to pay any service tax on online bookings) than booking through travel agencies, why will they come to us?“ He said, “If things go the way they are -first, demonetization and now the hike in the service tax -travel companies will be forced to shut down, leading to unemployment as many depend on this industry for livelihood. Now, the question of our survival has started popping up. If it continues this way , we will hardly be there to give our services,“ he said.
 
 Another travel company proprietor said all the discussions with clients before January 22 had rendered fruitless.
 
 “Before clients book a package and make payments, they come to us to discuss their tour plans and we are supposed to give them price quotations in advance.The hike in the service tax was done with a notification released only a few days before its implementation, which rendered earlier price quotations meaningless.The same clients now come and tell us that they cannot pay more than what was quoted by us before the service tax was hiked,“ he said.
 
