THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Luck is his fellow traveller. Coupled with hard work, it catapulted   to heights unimaginable for a teenager hailing from a middle-class agriculture family in small-town Pala.
Mani, who is turning 84 on Monday , credits his success to the trust of people, unwavering support of his family , God's grace and his party's commitment to the working class.
 
 On Sunday--a day before his birthday--Kerala Congress (M) would organize charity events in 1,000 care homes across the state to celebrate the event. “I will join the residents of Navajeevan Trust, Kottayam, for lunch“, Mani said, when asked about his plan for `sathabhishekam', the event marking the sighting of 1,000 full moons which coincides with one's 84th birthday .
 
 Elders at Marangattupally remember young Mani as the boy who perched on boulders and delivered speeches to empty fields. Mani said it was a strategy to sharpen his oratory skills ahead of elocution competitions. “Thalappallil Lukas sir used to prepare speeches for me ahead of competitions. But did the same for three other students too. Hence, I would try to make my speech distinct“, Mani said, adding that besides boulders, a guava tree in their courtyard too had served as podium.
 
 The practice helped him shine both as a lawyer and a politician. “I started legal practice under Justice Govinda Menon in Kozhikode. A year later, I shifted my practice to Pala and Kottayam“, he said. Mani handled civil and criminal cases and shined as a young lawyer, who had a penchant for victory . Even after becoming an MLA in 1965, he didn't take a break from legal career. “I continued practice in Pala and Kottayam. Until I became a minister in 1976, I balanced both the careers“, Mani said.
 
 Mani loves teaching too and is still a sought-after lecturer of Indian Con stitution in civil service coaching classes. “I find time to teach at St Thomas Civil Service Academy , Pala, every year.“ But not before meticulously preparing for the class.
 
 His academic orientation played a major role in shaping up Mani. “In 1967, there were nine Congress legislators and five Kerala Congress legislators in the assembly . The ruling front led by EMS (Namboodirpad) was 117member strong. Taking on them headon was an impossible task. I banked upon data and research, and each day gave fresh headaches to the government. There would be allegations every day and we would table supporting documents too. I was the Arjuna in the opposition who took shots at the government“, Mani said.
 
 The veteran, who is in the league of Kerala's best legislators, recalled how hard it was to balance work in the con stituency and in the assembly .
 
 “I would devote my entire time for the assembly when the House was in session. Back in MLA hostel, I would lock the main entrance from outside and entered through the servant's door at the rear“. The closed door gave him the opportunity to prepare peacefully. “I used to read and make notes until 2am during assembly sessions“.When in constituency , Mani devotes himself to the voters.
 
 One of the allegations levelled by Mani's detractors is that he had never been part of the Kerala Congress during its formation. Mani, however, denied the allegation.
 
 “I was there from the beginning.There was a meeting at Lakshmi Vilas Hotel that decided to form a new party .I attended the meeting along with 15 MLAs. I was then the Kottayam district secretary of the Congress“, Mani said when asked about the allegation that he switched over to Kerala Congress later for the Pala assembly seat.
 
 Mani had been a follower of P T Chacko, a close relative of his wife Kutty Amma. “There was a group in the Congress led by Chacko and I was part of that faction“, Mani said. Chacko's followers included George Joseph Podippara, Mustafa Kani Rawther and  , and they had worked together with Mani and the core group often met to review the political scenario.
 
 Chacko group was one that had to be reckoned with during the first assembly itself. “The plan for direct action during liberation struggle was Chacko's idea. He had authorised confidants in all constituencies to stage picketing of government offices during the hartal called as part of liberation struggle. I joined the picketing at Pala and courted arrest“, Mani re called.
 
 Mani's attempt to unite all factions of Kerala Congress in 2009-10 resulted in the prominent group, Kerala Congress (J), joining the party along with the P C George-led faction which later went out of the united party . Though the proponent of the theory `growth by mutation', Mani now feels that had KC stood united, the party would have been a stronger force now. “Though in theory there are several factions now, practically our party is the one having mass support. The positive aspect of splits is that we could build up a cadre base, or else, it would have been a collective of people centred on the leader“, he said.
 
 Mani reflected the optimism about his party's strength when asked about his succession plan. “The one who can attain the confidence of the party will naturally become its leader“, he said adding that retirement is not on his agenda now.
 
 According to him, party vicechairman Jose K Mani, who is Kottayam MP and his only son, is a pop ular leader who cares for the people.
 
 Among the chief ministers he had worked with, Mani rates C   as the best. “He was more comfortable to work with. Once, while I was the finance minister, I had to correct a decision which he had announced a year ago regarding plantation tax. After hearing the budget read out, Menon said though I had reversed his proposal, it was a very good budget.That was his magnanimity“.
 
 Mani felt that T M Jacob would have got a better profile had he stayed with him. On P C Thomas, son of P T Chacko who had been Mani's mentor, he said he was forced to expel Thomas as the party state committee insisted for his ouster.
 
 “When P C Thomas demanded the chairman's resignation, party state committee was in session. All of them asked me to act since that was `guru ninda'. His was an immature act“, he said.
 
 The idea of   mooted by him several years ago has great relevance in the changed circumstances, Mani said.
 
 “This century is going to be Asia's.A forum where India and China playing lead role will redefine the global economy . World trade agreements like GATT has clauses to protect local economy by resisting unmindful import.Asian countries should unite and use such provisions to check the assault from Western economy“, he said.
 
 Like Mani, Pala, too, has an umbilical relationship with rubber. It is a period when both face serious crisis. Value addition is the solution prescribed by Mani for saving rubber. But, the master diplomat, who can simultaneously love NSS's   and SNDP Yogam's Vellappally Natesan, is reluctant to speak about the future plan for Kerala Congress (M).
 
 When Mani said he has good relationship with the BJP , he was cautious enough to add a rider: “We have good relationship with all“.
 
 What does that mean? Is he asking to wait and watch?
 
