Presenting a marathon flute performance for over 36 hours, Thiruvananthapuram-based music prodigy   broke the former world record created by Thrissur’s flautist  .

 The 18-year-old commonly known as Ananthapurari Ananthakrishnan in the music arena broke the former’s feat of 27 hours and etched his name on books of records for the longest flute marathon held at temple auditorium in Guruvayoor recently. 
 In a candid chat, the artiste shares his joy on achieving the world record, his love for music and more…
 
 
 
 
 I was blessed to receive my basic lessons in music from Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri. Later, I studied under Carnatic vocal guru in Palkullangara Saraswathy Amma, whom I fondly called my paattu ammumma. She had taught me many keerthanams and classical compositions that I still cherish and practise till date. Apart from flute, the love for music made me pursue other instruments such as guitar, violin, mandolin, bulbul, tarang, veena and harmonium. I am also trained under these instruments by various eminent gurus on a daily basis.
 
 I have been learning flute under Shiva Ramakrishna Iyer sir at Valyashala, Thiruvananthapuram, since 2009. Till class 10, I used to practise regularly for eight hours on all instruments. During Class 11 and 12, I had to take a break to focus on academics.
 
 
 
 
 It was a dream for me when I was in class 9 to perform a vocal concert with 101 swathi keerthanam in 101 ragas. But I lost my paattu ammumma and dropped out of the concert. After my class 12 exams, I prepared myself for this flute concert dedicating it to her and my flute master Ramakrishna sir. I am extremely happy breaking the record. After the event Murali sir blessed me and congratulated me for my attempt over the phone. I was able to achieve the record only because of the blessings of my gurus and the audience.
 
 
 
 
 I knew I had the resources to play the bamboo flute without any break. Before the event, I had 24 hour-long practise sessions to develop confidence for the marathon recital. I did not feel tired during the long hours. By grace of Lord Guruvayoorappan and support of my parents, it all went good. I only took three minute breaks three or four times during the course of two days. I had a few cashew nuts, dates and a sip of black tea to sustain my energy. I only went to the washroom once as I feared I would lose time.
 
 
 
 
 Being an aspiring artiste in classical music arena, I consider this recognition as a step to pursue more knowledge in music. It is my guru dakshina to my gurus and parents. Also being a youngster, I hope it inspires others to also set more records. This feat proves that nothing is impossible if you have a strong will.
 
 
 
 
 I have written the LLB entrance examination. I wish to become a lawyer or an IAS officer. Music is my passion so I also want to pursue music in parallel. I am blessed I have parents, who support my passion in life. I also have few shows coming up which include instrument ganamela, vocal concerts and instrument kacheri.
 
 
 
