Aurangabad: Following a good start to the rainy season in June, monsoon has played truant in several parts of Maharashtra, including the   

 Marathwada regioin, which had witnessed the highest expected rainfall in the state by end of June, has started witnessing increasing deficiency in rainfall.
 
 The region, comprising eight districts, has been showing around 9% deficient rainfall as of Saturday. 
 
 At the state level, except Konkan region, remaining all five divisions have been lagging in terms of expected quota of progressive rainfall received since June.
 
 The lull in rainfall activity has been causing worries among the farming community, as they have already started sowing expecting  . 
 
 With less than half of expected rainfall in first week of July coupled with earlier dry spells in the second half of June has led the farmer community in to thinking about re-sowing options. 
 
 The Nagpur division (42%) has been showing maximum rainfall deficiency, followed by Amravati (29%), Pune (14%), Aurangabad (9%) and Nashik (7%). Konkan division has witnessed 3% surplus rainfall since June. 
 
 A senior agricultural department official said the sowing has taken place in over 60% of the total cultivable land in Maharashtra. 
 
 “No doubt that the truant played by the monsoon currently has worried the farmers who have already undertaken sowing. However, the crops can survive for a minimum of one or two weeks going by the traditional relief measures. The local means of irrigation are also in place to help out farmers,” he said, preferring anonymity. 
 
 In Marathwada, five out of eight districts have been showing deficient rain till date. Parbhani, Nanded (both around 25%) and Hingoli (19%) are among the districts that have been showing maximum deficiency, while Aurangabad district has been showing a rainfall deficiency of 16%. 
 
 Osmanabad, Latur and Beed districts on the other hand, continued to show light to surplus rainfall.
 
 Aurangabad region as a whole has recorded only 17% of   in July so far. 
 
 The forecast by the   is not very encouraging for both the city and the region as it has ruled out chances of any good rainfall over the next three days, but has raised the possibility of cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle. 
 
