
 On Sunday , we told you about certain social media groups acting as efficacious   platforms for illegal wildlife trade in the city. Since then, these Facebook groups have been undergoing massive changes -many have deleted posts relating to sale of protected animals and a few have turned the groups into discussion forums by blocking the `buysell' option.
 
  Sanam Marik, the creator of the   Pet Market group on Facebook, agreed that some members had posted photos and sale offers for protected species, but after the July 9 CT report, they have started a manual filtering process. “ All posts will now be monitored by the admins and only the ones deemed legal will be allowed on the timeline,“ he told us.
 
 The administrators of another group, Garia Pakhir Haat, told us that they've already taken down all posts pertaining to illegal species from their timeline.
 
 But that's just the tip of the iceberg.These groups were being used as platforms for a trade that has much deeper roots. And a lack of wildlifeenvironme ntal awareness helps keep the trade alive. So, if you love to keep pets and want to know what's at stake, read on.
  
  WHAT DOES THE LAW SAY?
 According to Ravikant Sinha, chief wildlife warden and PCCF wildlife, West Bengal, the possession, sale or purchase of all scheduled animals under Wildlife Protection Act 1972 is strictly prohibited. The Act, however, doesn't govern exotic species. But does that mean someone can keep exotic species like African lions or chimpanzees as pets? “No,“ said Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director (eastern region), Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, adding that exotic species have been scheduled in three categories under the Convention on   in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).
 CITES is an international multilateral treaty mooted by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and enforced from July 1, 1975, to protect endangered plants and animals. In accordance with the treaty, a person or organisation needs special permission from a country's wildlifeforeRing-nec st departments to keep cebeing sol rtain species of animals Street pe or plants. “Even when zoos exchange animals within the country or internationally, they have to apply for this permission from the wildlife department,“ Mitra said.
 Besides, anybody importing foreign species must have a license issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade and each shipment must get a clean chit from Animal Quarantine and Certification Services (AQCS) to ensure that the species are disease-free. Last but not the least, none of a these rules apply to individuals.
  
  THE   MENACE
 Despite all the international and domestic restrictions, the trade in protectedscheduled species is a problem that keeps wildlife protections agenciesdepartments around the world on their toes round the year. Most such species, especially fish, birds and reptiles, are smuggled into India through Bangkok, Singapore and other Southeast Asian countries. The smugglers are known as `carriers' among pet traders.Once smuggled, these species are sold in pet shops, markets like Galiff Street and as we pointed out, online.“These traders mostly don't have a license or permission to have these species in their possession or trade in them,“ a source said, adding, “Most pet dealers, however, stick to legal trade practices.“
 
  
 SHODDY HANDLING
 Sources told us that the pet trade in the city , whether legal or otherwise, suffers from a lack of trained animal handlers and hygienic housing.According to international norms if one's keeping a turtle, it must be provided 37.8 litres of water for every inch of its size. So, for a 6-inch turtle, the minimum tank size should be 227 litres. But most sellers make do with large plastic tubs or small aquariums, often leading to infections and death of the turtles. According to Sinha, this may not be illegal vis-àvis trade practices. “But it certainly comes under the ambit of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960,“ he said.
  
  
 THE ECOLOGICAL THREAT
 Among the myriad issues and problems relating to the trade of pets and wildlife, one that has been posing a major problem in recent times is the damage done to the local ecosystem by exotic species, especially fish. According to experts, the problem lies with the lack of awareness among breeders or hobbyists about the potential damage exotic species can do to the local ecosystem. This often results in exotic fish breeds being released into local water bod ies after they grow too big to be kept in captivity . “Piranhas, plecos and different cichlid groups are now common in city ponds. They eat up the native fish breeds and in turn, destroy the local ecosystem,“   chair man Asok Kanti Sanyal told us, adding that fast-breeding nath `pest' varieties like tilapi ine cichlid (tilapia) and vicious predators like the African catfish (rakhhushe magur) are also quite common in water bodies in and aro und Kolkata now.
 
  
 WHAT'S ETHICAL?
 According to sources, unlike several countries around the world, there's no distinct law in India that regulates release of exotic fish breeds into local water bodies. But the invasion has been getting more and more severe in recent years, given the spurt in demand for exotic fish vari eties for aquariums. According to a study, more than 30 species of predatory or fast-breeding fish are now found in Indian water bodies. In the city, when a terrifying alligator-faced Cuban gar was caught by an angler in Subhash Sarovar last year, it sent shockwaves through scientific circles. It was assumed that the exotic predator was released in the lake by some aquarium enthusiast after it grew too big for the tank.And such instances are becoming more common every day.
 
 A city hobbyist, who has been fighting for ethical practices among hobbyists, said it will not stop until people get educated.“After all, hobbyists should understand what's good for the local ecosystem. They should keep ecological sustainability in mind.That's why many nations have laws that tries to strike a balance between the interests of hobbyists and nature,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
