MUMBAI: Residents say while the west developed at a rapid pace,   East, which has the working class, government servants, pensioners and a significant Marathi vote bank, was somewhat “neglected” over the years. Though this part of Mulund is now witnessing real estate growth, its biggest problem is the presence of one of the city’s biggest dumping grounds.

 The Mulund dumping ground has left citizens gasping for breath, not just because of the horrid stench, but also because of frequent fires which envelop large swathes in thick smoke. The dumping ground has become a health hazard for 3,000 flats of  , barely 100 metres away. Started in 1968, it is the city’s second oldest landfill site and spread over 25 hectares.
 
 NCP corporator   said: “It is a nightmare living not just in Hariom Nagar but in several buildings within 2-3 km from the dumping ground (which comes in his constituency). At times, the blanket of smoke travels all the way up to Mulund-Airoli bridge and till Gavanpada, and has led to several respiratory ailments such as shortness of breath, asthma, skin and eye problems.” Local residents also formed a federation to close down the dumping ground.
 
 BMC officials said the civic body took cognisance of citizens’ complaints and following a court directive, it recently ‘shut’ the dumping ground. “The corporation is in the process of floating tenders for scientific closure of this dumping ground,” said corporator Manoj Kotak, of the BJP. However, activist Prakash Padikkal said there was still dumping of waste and toxic material at the site. “Even though it is officially shut, the dumping has restarted quietly. There are regular fires and it spews toxic gases,” he pointed out. 
 
 Resident   said a 2km area around the dumping ground was barren for years and it was only about a decade ago that several housing colonies sprung up near it. Citizens have been battling for the past eight years for closure of the dumping ground.
 
 Residents’ anger was palpable during the last elections as a majority voted against the ruling   in the two electoral wards here. While the NCP won one ward, MNS bagged the other.
 
 Said a T-ward official: “We have also undertaken road widening work to prevent congestion on several roads in Mulund East. We are driving away illegal hawkers and encroachers while urging housing societies to segregate waste at source.” There are also health hazards due to overflowing of nullahs, resulting in epidemics like dengue and malaria. 
 
 
