KOLHAPUR: The  ,   ( ) has invited all stakeholders to attend meetings related to discussion of its five-year master plan later this month. An advertisement related to the same was published on Saturday. 

 According to SUK registrar  , the meetings related to the master plan submission of the varsity will commence from May 22 across Kolhapur, Sangli and   districts in the division.
 
 According to the official, the SUK has to submit its five-year master plan for the academic year 2017-18 to 2020-21 and it has invited all the stakeholders for the meetings in their respective districts.
 
 Three committees have been formed that will look into the discussion and recommendations of the master plan meetings from the stakeholders' perspective. The first meeting regarding the same has been organised at city-based Kamala College on Monday May 22, while the next meeting will be at the   in Sangli on May 23. The last meeting will be held at the Lal Bahadur Shastri College in Satara on May 24.
 
 Nandavadekar said the meetings will look for the academic requirements in next five years in the division and in order to make the master plan as elaborative as possible, these meetings will play a vital role.
 
 "Issues such as faculty shortage, additional divisions, and most importantly geographical requirements of the academics will be discussed. The employability of students and creation of skill-based courses is one of the other major topics of the master plan which too will be looked after during the discussions," he said.
 
 He added the university has appealed all public representatives, teachers, parents, students, educational institutes, zilla parishad and gram panchayat members to attend the meeting for their suggestions.
 
 "We have also provided a link on the university website where a form related to new colleges, courses and subjects have been provided. Those who think their region can have a use of new college or a particular course can fill this form and submit it to the coordinators during the meeting. This will facilitate the committee members to look after the requirements of the region," he added.
 
 The registrar said that after the meetings, the committee members will recommend the importance of new courses and colleges in the particular regions. 
 
