CHANDIGARH: A roadside dhaba owner near Uklana town of   district was shot at on Wednesday evening after an argument over a packet of bidi. As per the FIR registered at the Uklana police station, the accused came to victim Satish Kumar’s dhaba on Wednesday at around 5.30 am and asked him to bring a bundle of ‘bidi.’

 On this, the victim asked them to come out of the car and collect it. “Visibly upset over the denial of bringing bidi to the car, the accused left the venue threatening him with dire consequences. After a while, they came in two vehicles carrying pistols and fired at the victim,” says the FIR.
 
 Talking to TOI,   deputy superintendent of police (DSP)   said they have identified two accused involved in the incident and booked them for attempt to murder and other sections under the Arms Act. The DSP confirmed that as per the witnesses and the victim, the tiff started over bidi and accused were apparently adamant on getting the bundle of bidi delivered the car.
 
 “Searches are being carried out to arrest the accused. We have come to know that they were also involved in some offences related to supply of narcotics at the local level in the past. The victim is out of danger and we have recorded his statement,” the DSP added. He, however, added that had the victim informed the police after receiving threats from the accused, the incident could have been averted. Police has also recovered one of the vehicles used by the accused.
 
 Victim Satish (38), a resident of   village in Hisar, runs the Indian Star Family Dhaba on the Hisar-Chandigarh highway near Uklana.
 
 He was taken to a private hospital in Barwala by the people who had gathered on the dhaba after hearing gunshots.
 
 According to victim, he was not expecting the assailants to come with weapons and attack him just because of him denying to provide bidi in the car. “They were apparently miffed after I told them to come out of car and collect the bundle of bidi from the dhaba. On their refusal to come down from the car, I had commented if they do all kind of work inside the car, which apparently upset them,” said the victim.
 
 The accused who have been identified are Balwan Singh and   of Julhera village near Narwana.
 
