JAIPUR: There is no shortage of policies or schemes for the girl child, but the implementation of these projects is abysmally poor.

 This was made amply evident by speakers at the session, ‘Nanhi Kali: Nutrition and the Girl Child,’ at Jaipur Literature Festival ( ) on Sunday.
 
 Despite the government promoting its flagship scheme ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ in a big way, there are still 40 million children in the country with stunted growth and malnutrition. Around 80% children in Orissa still defecate in the open.
 
 While the picture may be marginally better elsewhere, everything from child sex ratio, infant mortality, health and nutrition are still skewed against the girl child.
 
 Despite schemes like mid-day meals at schools, India is ranked 97 out of 108 countries in the global hunger index.
 
 “It’s difficult to look at nutrition in isolation when you talk of the girl child. Though the situation is marginally better than it was 10 years back, a lot needs to be done. There is healthcare, sanitation, infant mortality. Girls generally get leftovers or nothing at all. And it’s only in rare and extreme situations that they are given medical care. This has led to greater infant mortality among girls,” said Nandana Sen, child rights activist.
 
 The nutrition of girl child has a lot to do with education. If a mother is not educated, the girl child will have malnutrition. Besides, there is lack of infrastructure like roads, toilets and mid-day meals that more often than not leads to larger number of school dropouts among girls, she said.
 
 “Education is important. If you educate a man, you educate one person. If you educate a woman, you educate a nation. An educated woman is better able to educate her own children. The family will then be healthier, with a lower prospect of infant mortality and better maternal nutrition, including during pregnancy,” emphasized MP Shashi Tharoor.
 
 There is a huge difference in nutrition of girls viz-a-viz boys. Around six million children in the country go hungry to bed, forcing them into prostitution and being trafficked. About 1.4 million girls have been trafficked. “Ironically in 2015 and 2016, the Union government spent less on child nutrition while provisioning 40 million dollars for defense. “We can have a healthier nation nnly if they spend more on the girl child,” said Ruchira Gupta, founder and president of Apne Aap Women Worldwide (India) Trust.
 
 
