Chandigarh: Haryana government has shifted additional chief secretary (home) Ram Niwas. Shyam Sunder Prasad, a 1984-batch IAS officer, will be the new home secretary of Haryana.

 Prasad has been appointed as the fourth home secretary of Haryana under the BJP government that came to power in October 2014.
 
 Sources said Ram Niwas was transferred apparently after the violence that took place in Panchkula, Sirsa and other parts of the state after the conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in rape cases on August 25. But the government insisted that it was a routine affair.
 
 Sources in the Haryana civil secretariat said it had been done to silent the opposition parties who were blaming the government for its failure to control the rampaging dera followers in Panchkula.
 
 A total of 42 dera followers were killed in Panchkula and Sirsa, and more than 290 were injured in the police action after they turned violent on August 25.
 
 Haryana government had earlier placed Panchkula DCP Ashok Kumar under suspension for allegedly failing to tackle the situation. DCP Kumar was suspended as he was accused of not adding the content related to assembly of persons in the prohibitory orders issued in Panchkula. Later, it was found that he had notified the prohibitory orders of the home department and those were released in other districts as well.
 
 Speaking to TOI, outgoing home secretary Ram Niwas, however, insisted that he had requested the government to shift him to a new assignment. “I had been on the post for one-and-a-half years. I was not able to give time to my family, hence I had made the request to the government. I am satisfied with my tenure. We did our best,” he said.
 
 Ram Niwas was among 14 IAS officers who got new postings on Tuesday. Vijai Vardhan, additional chief secretary (labour), has been posted as additional chief secretary (tourism) relieving Varinder Singh Kundu of the charge.
 
 Kundu has been posted as additional chief secretary (science and technology) besides holding the charge of vice-chancellor, State University of Performing and Visual Arts (SUPVA), Rohtak.
 
 Jyoti Arora, awaiting posting orders, has been posted as principal secretary (higher education) in place of Mahavir Singh who goes as principal secretary (labour).
 
 
