While the crusaders of Tamil culture took to the beaches and streets of Tamil Nadu in January in support of jallikattu, which they believe is the key to keeping the native breeds of cattle alive, a new book by film historian and wildlife conservationist S   hopes to bring indigenous dog breeds — some of which are facing   — into the spotlight.

 It was in 1968, when he was in the postal service, that Baskaran came face to face with his first Rajapalayam. At a station near Tirunelveli, he found himself admiring two exquisite white   — scars on their coats, a result of fights with boars — curled up on the floor of the platform, listless. But the moment their master clicked his tongue, the dogs stood up in an instant, on guard, waiting for their next command.
 
 A few months later, the man brought Baskaran a Rajapalayam pup, which set the postmaster-historian-writer-and dog lover off on his lifelong quest to discover, uncover, and recover the stories behind Indian dog breeds. Half a century later, Baskaran, now 76 years old, has written the ‘The Book of Indian Dogs’ (published by Aleph), which is slated to hit the shelves this month.
 
 The book covers 25 different breeds from India, dividing them into working dogs (Himalayan Mastiff, Kombai, Patti etc), companion dogs (Lhasa Apso and Tibetan Spaniel) and hounds — which includes south India’s most famous Chippiparai and Rajapalayam breeds.
 
 "The British used Indian dogs during their hunting expeditions. But they found the dogs weren’t very good at it. So they began bringing in their greyhounds and retrievers, who ended up dying as they could not withstand the heat," says Baskaran. He says the British later tried interbreeding the foreign dogs with  .
 
 "The gene pool of the Indian dog breeds was intact until the interbreeding began. The first to import dogs were the Portuguese in the 16th century. But it was only after the British tightened their hold on India that there was a steady inflow of dogs," says Baskaran.
 
 While Baskaran lists the Rampur Hound, Himalayan Mastiff and Rajapalayam as the strongest of the Indian breeds, he says many legendary Indian breeds have either vanished or were on the point of disappearing — the breed Alangu from the Thanjavur region of TN, and the Malaipatti dog from Sabarimala in Kerala, for instance. "In the 18th century, a travelling Frenchman had identified as many as 50 distinct Indian dog breeds. Sadly, we don’t have that many now."
 
 "This book merely scratches the surface. In the north east for instance, they have managed to maintain a pristine gene pool of their indigenous breeds," he says.
 
 Baskaran does not just track the indigenous hounds, but also looks at reasons for why the trail’s gone cold. "Indifference by both people and the government," he says, "is the biggest reason."
 
 "For instance, Chennai had a Dog Breeding Unit for Indigenous Breeds in Saidapet. The centre functioned well for a few years, but with a change of government, it was left in a poor condition and instead of stepping up efforts to improve its state, it was left in neglect and ultimately closed in December 2016, after a PETA petition. This is one of the examples of governments ignoring native breeds, but a few like the Karnataka government are making some attempts at their revival," says Baskaran. He adds that indigenous dog breed shows, however, have increased the popularity of the state’s Mudhol hound breed.
 
 Baskaran says while in cities interbreeding and the craze to acquire foreign breeds has resulted in the neglect of local breeds, in rural areas the ban on hunting by the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 is among the main reasons for the decline of the native breeds. He adds that for many owners in rural TN, dogs were mostly used as companions in hunting — which like rooster fights and jallikattu was part of tradition.
 
 "Dog owners in south India aren’t helping matters either," says Baskaran. "Several owners who do not want the bloodline of their dogs to be diluted have resorted to castration because they do not want another dog like theirs."
 
 Unfortunately, Bhaskaran says, Tamil Nadu needs just that — more dogs like theirs to keep the indigenous hounds still in the running.
 
 
