PUNE: Two scientist-entrepreneurs working out of their lab at the   of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune, have developed two new bone graft substitutes, which will better augment and regenerate bones lost due to any disease or injury. These will also come handy in the case of those with congenital defects. 

 Doctors that TOI contacted said they were already looking forward to the commercial availability of the products, especially for their near-to-natural composition, porous structure and   And what more! They will be available at a cost lesser than those of the currently-available imported varieties, they said. 
 
 It took scientists Nilay Lakhkar and   nearly a year to develop the products - PoroSyn and SynOst (bioactive synthetic bone graft granules and putty). 
 
 Backed by a financial grant from Biotechnology Industrial Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for their innovative work in bio-tech products, the scientist-duo have already submitted a provisional patent application for PoroSyn. It has been developed with proprietary technology and is composed of calcium, sodium and phosphorous - three elements naturally found in bones. 
 
 They will ensure better uptake of the treatment by the body as well as heal faster. 
 
 While the concept has already got the thumbs up at the recent Pitch Fest in the Start Up Bio 2017 event at Bangalore, the process for conducting clinical trials of the products has also already been initiated. 
 
 The duo is excited about the initial response to the products. 
 
 Nilay Lakhkar, founder and chief executive officer of SynThera Biomedical Pvt Ltd, said, "We have already demonstrated the idea to a lot of dentists and orthopaedics. The products are designed to allow a strong, natural foundation for the bone to heal."
 
 Explaining the use of the product in dental procedures, Lakhkar said, "Whenever teeth are extracted for implant placement, the gaps left behind may collapse if not properly cared. However, by using this near-natural bone-augmentation product, the doctor can allow strong bone tissue to regenerate within three to four months, allowing for improved clinical outcomes." Nitin Oswal, a city-based oral and maxillofacial surgeon, concurred with the scientist. 
 
 "Not only is this product indigenously developed, the best part is that it issues no animal or human-original elements, thus, ensuring that there are no allergic reactions for the patient. The cheaper cost and better availability will definitely make it a preferred choice," Nitin Oswal said.
 
 The team is now working to develop bioactive glass materials for quick-moving oral products sector through manufacture of generic and proprietary bioactive glass formulations for use in  .
 
