NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister   is likely to keep the home portfolio when he allocates departments among his ministers.

 Sources said the CM being in charge of the home department will be in line with the leadership’s decision to accord top priority to improve law and order situation in the state, one of the key planks of BJP.
 
 “Yogi’s image as a tough person who means business will fit well with the responsibility,” said a senior BJP source of the chief minister who, while speaking in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, promised to get rid of ‘Goonda Raj’. “Ab UP main bahut sari bandi hogi,” he said in what was interpreted as a clear hint that he means business. 
 
 Since the appointment of two deputy CMs —   and   — speculation has been rife that the home department might go to Maurya whereas Dinesh Sharma will get the responsibility of finance. 
 
 However, well placed party sources said Yogi will keep the home department with himself to ensure how it ties in well to project him as a tough person and see that the law and order situation improves to change perception about the state, a major bane in its industrial growth which has been dipping continuously. 
 
 Yogi was on a day-long visit to the national capital and called on senior leaders of the party, including Prime Minister  , party president Amit Shah, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and party patriarch L K Advani. Yogi had a separate meeting with MPs from his home state in   complex during which he got valuable inputs from Birendra Singh Mast and other MPs. 
 
 Yogi’s Delhi trip was billed as a courtesy visit to party seniors. However, sources said the new CM had a thorough discussion with Shah as the two leaders finalised the list of portfolios to be formalised by Wednesday. Insiders say that Yogi was keen to retain the home department, which has been the precedence in the state and he will himself work on improving the law and order situation, an issue raked up most against the Akhilesh Yadav dispensation. 
 
 Yogi rushed back from the airport in the afternoon to the residence of Shah here for an 'unscheduled' meeting. The CM was on his way to the airport when his cavalcade made a U-turn. He remained at Shah's residence for nearly an hour.
 
 Party sources said it was pertinent for Yogi to discuss the portfolio distribution with Shah, who played a key role in selection of candidates and also in forging alliance with the two regional parties -- Apana Dal and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Shah had wandered across the state as a commoner to sense the pulse on the ground and had valuable tips for the new CM for evenly distributing the portfolios focusing on capabilities and regional balance.
 
 However, sources said national office-bearers, including Shrikant Sharma and Sidharth Nath Singh, are set to get important portfolios whereas others, including Swatantradev Singh, Mahendra Singh, Satish Mahana and Suresh Khanna, will also get other key departments like power, industry and urban development. 
 
 
