COIMBATORE:   will start operating its flights from the   to Colombo from July 15. 

 The airline will cater to passengers four days a week, sources said. “The flight will operate on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday. The incoming flight from Colombo will arrive at 2.35pm. It will depart for Colombo at 3.35pm,” director of the Coimbatore Airport G Prakash Reddy told TOI.
 
 Reddy had conducted a meeting with the senior officials of the airport, including customs and immigration, on Wednesday to discuss the details of the new flight operation. “The possibility and viability of operating international flights by SriLankan Airlines as per the proposed days and timings was discussed at length. All the participants assured their co-operation for the operation of the flights,” he said. 
 
 The flight is expected to improve industrial relations between Sri Lanka and India and facilitate movement of labourers from Coimbatore to the island nation. “A lot of skilled labourers from Coimbatore travel to Sri Lanka for small assignments. They are usually plumbers, mechanics and electricians,” said the president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association, V Sundaram. “They usually take a flight from Trichy to Colombo. The introduction of the new flight will help both labourers and industries,” he added. 
 
 The new flight will also improve tourism in both Coimbatore and Sri Lanka. The island nation would be an ideal destination for tourists from Coimbatore as it provides visa on arrival.
 
 Sri Lanka is known to be an attractive as well as an affordable tourist destination. A lot of middle class families would consider visiting the island after the introduction of the flight. 
 
 On the other hand, Coimbatore is surrounded by hill stations like Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Valparai and Yeracud. The new flight can also bring Sri Lankan tourists to the city. 
 
 This will be the third international carrier flying out of the Coimbatore airport, besides Air Arabia to Dubai and SilkAir to Singapore. 
 
 Airport authorities have requested SriLankan Airlines to consider operating a daily flight by the winter season and the airline has offered to consider the proposal. 
 
