Nagpur: The controversial new ward system with four corporators in a ward is likely to witness very few candidates contesting the upcoming Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections as an independent. Only two of 10 independent sitting corporators are planning to contest the polls again as an independent candidate.

 In 2012 NMC elections, 10 corporators were elected as independents out of the total 145. Two corporators — Satish Holey and Harish Dikondwar — joined BJP much before the announcement of elections. Another corporator Parinay Fuke too joined BJP and also got elected as an MLC a few months ago.
 
 After the announcement of new ward system, three corporators Kishor Dorle (former mayor) and Savita Sangole joined Congress whereas Gopichand Kumre joined BJP. Meena Chaudhary has sought ticket from the Congress along with her son — Kamlesh — who too was an independent corporator. They will be joining Congress if given ticket. Former deputy mayor Ganesh Pokulwar too is eyeing ticket from the BJP or even Congress.
 
 “I will be contesting election from ward No. 15. I have not decided yet to join any party and final decision will be taken at the nomination form stage. It is very difficult to contest as an independent candidate in a ward with four contestants. Area of each ward is huge and the number of voters comes to around 60,000. It becomes a tough task for independent candidates to cover such huge area and voters. Therefore, this election is bound to see lesser number of independent candidates,” Pokulwar said.
 
 Only two corporators — Ravindra Dolas and Vandana Indole — have plans to contest the election again as an independent candidate.
 
 Dolas said the list of ticket aspirants in both Congress and BJP is so long that chances of getting party nomination are very bleak and hence it’s better to contest as an independent. “I got elected as an independent candidate twice. I was in touch with the people and have executed many works. Most of the area I had represented earlier is also part of the new ward,” he said. Dolas is preparing to contest from ward No. 22.
 
 Ingole too revealed her plans to contest as an independent. She too had won twice being an independent candidate. Now, she will be contesting from ward No. 22.
 
 There will be some independents who are likely to impact the fortunes of candidates of major parties. Also, the possibility of disgruntled elements from Congress and the BJP contesting as an independents cannot be ruled out.
 
 Another major problem for independent candidates is they will be facing direct contest from four aspirants from BJP and Congress each. Also, independent candidates cannot form a panel similar to major political parties as they will not get a common symbol. Therefore, independent candidates will not be able to campaign jointly.
 
 A couple of corporators who are about to swing from one party to another may also contest as independents if denied ticket.
 
 
