HYDERABAD: Angry at the Union health ministry’s plan to introduce a national exit test ( ) for MBBS graduates is likely to intensify with the   (IMA) planning to shut all medical colleges on February 1 and also visit 25 medical colleges in the state to bolster support from medicos.

 Members of the 21,000-member association arrived at the decision at a meeting on Monday. The office-bearers of the association, headed by state president Dr T Narsinga Reddy, will use powerpoint presentations to convince students that the exam is unnecessary.
 
 “There is no doubt that the proposed NEXT exam as incorporated in the   Bill, 2016 will doom the careers of thousands of medicos who worked hard for five years to complete the   (MCI) regulated MBBS course. If such an exam is not stopped, there is a threat of quacks taking advantage of the shortage of qualified doctors,” said Reddy.
 
 Even before the Bill is introduced in parliament in February, the Telangana chapter wants all stakeholders, including managements of private medical colleges and junior doctors, on board.
 
 “The Telangana IMA has decided to send two students, one from a private and the other from a government medical college, to present their case at a meeting at the IMA national headquarters in New Delhi on January 22,” he said.
 
 The NEXT exam is meant to be a three-in-one test — exit exam for MBBS graduates, entrance exam for PG courses and clearance exam for those who studied medicine abroad. The Telangana junior doctors’ association (TJUDA) and Telangana private medical colleges association (TPMCA) are also against it.
 
 “I visited three Chinese medical colleges eight years ago and found that the teaching is substandard. In one college, biochemistry was being taught by a veterinary teacher,” said C Laxmi Narsimha Rao, convenor, TPMCA. He said it was “ridiculous” to make MBBS students who studied in India take the same exam as those who studied in China.
 
 TJUDA members say they will be the worst hit. “An MBBS student does more than 100 internal and external exams during the five-and-a-half year course. Why is the Union health ministry bent on having an exit exam when there is a mandatory NEET exam for entrance?” said Dr G Srinivas, state president, TJUDA.
 
 
