Hyderabad: In a bid to stay ahead of the curve in the rapidly evolving renewable energy space, city-based clean energy player   is planning to snap up a startup that offers innovative solutions, Mytrah Group chief executive officer Vikram Kailas said on Wednesday. “We are a firm believer that innovation comes from smaller companies … we are looking at a few… we have come across a company that has automated robots for cleaning of turbines and solar panels. We have also come across a company that is developing battery/storage solutions… we are working on some transactions…,” Kailas told TOI.

 While he did not mention the timeframe in which the transaction is expected to be closed, he indicated that the company is eyeing Indian startups for now. Even as Mytrah scouts for a perfect buy, it is also mulling a collaboration with T-Hub to work and engage with multiple startups in the clean energy space. Mytrah, which crossed the 1GW installed capacity mark last year, is eyeing addition of another 1GW this fiscal. It has earmarked a capex of Rs 6,000 crore for the capacity addition and has already tied up funding for it, he added. Some of the major projects being executed are 400MW in Telangana, 300MW in Tamil Nadu and the rest in the states like Punjab and Karnataka, among others. Kailas also confirmed that the company received Rs 1,900 crore in the latest round of funding from Piramal Capital and APG and the transaction is expected to be concluded by the end of this week, after which the company will make a formal announcement. According to Kailas, Mytrah is also studying the prospects of hybrid projects and is setting up a 2-4MW one in Karnataka. Mytrah has 16 operational wind power projects across eight Indian states (Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, AP, Telangana, Karnataka and TN) with an aggregate capacity of 1000MW. It also has the largest wind data bank in India, being the only independent power producer with over 200 wind mast locations across the country.
 
 
