CHENNAI: Soon it will be possible to fly on an 18-72 seater plane from Chennai to Salem,   as the state government has decided to support the Centre's Udan -Regional Connectivity Scheme -aimed at making   and   The civil aviation ministry has selected Turbo Megha Airways Private Limited, Air Odisha Aviation Private Limited and Turbo Aviation Private Limited in a bidding process to operate flights connecting smaller towns.

 The scheme provides for a cap of fare at `2,500, while airlines get a financial support (viability gap funding) from the central and state governments for 50% seats on a flight. The Edappadi K Pala niswami cabinet endorsed the scheme at a meeting on Tuesday. “The state decides to extend its concession by reducing VAT to 1% on aviation turbine fuel, besides 20% towards viability gap funding for the respective routes in the state,“ said a senior government official.
 
 The state is expected to sign an MoU with the aviation ministry . The scheme may help revive unused airports. Salem airport was closed for more than 16years as airlines were unwilling to run flights due to poor patronage. Kingfisher Airlines began a service in 2009 but withdrew it in 2011.
 
 Turbo Megha Airways Private Limited and Air Odisha Aviation Private Limited have got permission to fly Salem and Neyveli airports after the first round of bidding. Turbo Aviation Private Limited has been selected to connect Hosur but a financial bid is yet to be opened.
 
  The routes and networks were awarded to bidders who submitted valid proposals and quoted the lowest viability gap funding from the government. “The VGF per seat quoted by the airline operator in Tamil Nadu is between `2,347 and `3,060 and the subsidized seats offered are anywhere between nine and 36,“ said a ministry source. Hosur has a private airstrip, while the Neyveli Lignite Corporation's airstrip will be used at Neyveli.
 
 The state government will now have to provide space, if needed, to build small buildings to handle passengers, deploy police force for security checks. The airlines will enter into a three-year contract with AAI to operate regional flights. CII Tamil Nadu chairman   said that it was a boost for the region's economic and tourism development. “Salem has an IT park and will open up opportunities for business travellers.Textilegarment industry will also get a boost. Hosur is a food processing hub and manufacturing supplier hub, exporters will find access easy ,“ he said.
 
