BENGALURU: The news that   is coming to the bustling  , which has a perennial problem of bad roads, was music to the ears of most residents. However, as the construction activities on the Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor are gaining momentum, many are apprehensive about the work throwing traffic in the IT corridor out of gear.

 The work, which began two week ago, is expected to be completed in four years. The BMRC’s plan is to construct the 15.5-km corridor with 13 stations in two sections —one from   side to Visveswaraya Industrial area and the other from Whitefield towards Doddenakundi. This will cost Rs 670 crore and Rs 666 crore. 
 
 “The roads in Whitefiled are not just narrow but one-ways too. At several points, there are not many alternatives through which we can divert traffic to reduce congestion. Travel time will be doubled till the construction is over,” said Kasim Raja, ACP (planning), Bengaluru traffic police. 
 
 Deepanker Ray, who travels from   to Hoodi every day, said he used to take an hour to travel earlier. “For a week now, commuting from Doddenakundi to Hoodi only takes more than 45 minutes. I’m going to work in the Bellandur campus of my company from now on and come to Whitefield office only once a week,” he said.
 
 Even some residents are shifting from different parts of Hoodi, Mahadevapura and KR Puram to Marathahalli, claimed  , member of Whitefield Rising. “They will be staying for a couple of years in Marathahalli. I take 90 minutes to cover 12-km distance from Whitefield to Domlur. Residents will bear the brunt because the commuter rail services from Whitefield to Byappanahalli did not take off before the Metro construction began and not many feeder buses are provided from Hoodi to Byappanahalli,” he pointed out. 
 
 He said the congestion will increase pollution levels too. “Many trees in EPIP and ITPB areas have already been axed to give way for Metro. They could have been translocated,” he added. 
 
 According to traffic police, the road widening being undertaken by   will not help much. “Cabs and mini buses that ferry employees park on the roads as the tech companies do not allow private vehicles inside. This adds to bottlenecks. We have already sought the support of companies to allow parking at reasonable rates so that vehicles do not block roads,” Raja told TOI.
 
 Members from Whitefield Area Commerce and Industries Association (WACIA) have also discussed if industries could have staggered shift timings till the Metro service is ready. However, no decision has been taken in this regard. “We are willing to meet all the stakeholders—Whitefield Rising, industry bodies, commercial establishments, Bescom, BWSSB, BMTC, traffic police and BMRC to discuss possibilities to reduce loss to business,” said R N Hegde, member of WACIA.
 
