HYDERABAD: Demanding reopening of   at  , all political parties have warned the state government that they would intensify their protest if that does not happen. The parties extended their support to the call given by Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) chairman,  , for   on May 15, if the state government did not lift the ban on dharna chowk by then.On Friday , all major opposition parties led by TJAC staged a silent protest at Gun Park near the state assembly . Kodandaram said if the government forcibly stopped protests at Indira Park, the protests would spread across the city .

 He called the people to come to Dharna Chowk in large numbers on May 15. He said it was unfortunate that there was no response from the state government despite various political parties and organizations sitting on a hunger strike for the past one month. He said the TJAC and other organizations had submitted their representations to director general of police and Hyderabad district collector, but it did not yield any result.
 
 Interestingly , the chief minister took the decision on shifting of Dharna Chowk in February this year after TJAC called for Chalo Dharna Chowk, highlighting unemployment problem in the state.Now, TJAC has given a similar call for its revival.
 
 N Uttam Kumar Reddy , Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president, said the protest was a right of the people but chief minister   was resorting to undemocratic practices to suppress them. “People expected more freedom of expression and protection of their rights in the newly-formed state. But the CM is acting like a dictator,“ Reddy said.
 
 Telangana TDP working president, L Ramana, said it was not correct to shut down dharna chowk, which has become a forum for many protests for the past 20 years. BJP MLA, NVSS Prabhakar, demanded that the state government withdraw its decision of shifting Dharna Chowk to the city outskirts.
 
 V Hanumatha Rao, Congress leader, said as a TRS leader, Chandrasekhar Rao had held many protests at Dharna Chowk. After coming to power, the same leader did not like the protests at the venue, he said. CPM leaders, T Veerabhadraam and Sunnam Rajaiah, warned the government to change its undemocratic attitude and vowed to continue the protest till the government withdraws its decision.
 
