NEW DELHI: Seeking partnership of the   in  , deputy chief minister   on Wednesday asked them to participate in improving infrastructure and standards in Delhi government schools. He also asked them to assist in planning for skill training with focus on employability. Sisodia was speaking at the annual regional meeting the annual regional meeting of CII Northern Region on `Building A Competitive North'. “The curriculum should be made relevant for students. I suggest that the industry come forward and interact with the governmentrun training centres to convey their skill requirements to fulfil the needs of the industry,“ he stated. He also invited CII to work with Delhi government on skill development, especially in designing courses. The deputy CM highlighted the announcements made by the state government in the budget for 2017-18, which included reduction of VAT on air fuel from 25% to 1% for flights operating under the central government's regional connectivity scheme.This would apply to flights with links to Delhi. Sisodia said that this was a step to help small towns connect with the national capital.

 The year ahead will be challenging and holds new opportunities as the GST regime is expected to be implemented, Sisodia further stated. CII president Dr Naushad Forbes said that competitiveness is the key to meeting development imperatives and competitiveness drivers must be strengthened at all levels of the economy . “Comparative advantage is the essence of competitiveness. It can be strengthened by investing in skill development and education to build human capital,“ he added.
 
 “The true spirit of competitive federalism leading to streamlining of policies and processes and creation of conducive environment for investment and growth can go a long way in transforming the economies of Delhi,“ said Rumjhum Chatterjee, chairperson, CII northern region.
 
 Sumant Sinha, CII northern region deputy chairman, opined that northern states need to be more aggressive to leverage their resource base and attract investments in specific sectors where they enjoy strategic advantages. These sectors include food processing and agriculture, solar and hydro power and textiles.
 
