ROHTAK: Cracking a whip against copying in the ongoing class X  ,  , Haryana, (BSEH) has rounded up as many as five youths for helping candidates taking the exam in  . A flying squad headed by   subdivisional magistrate Nishant Yadav caught those helping students by supplying the copying material.

 A BSEH official said they were handed over to the police at Mohana police station and asked police to take action for violation of the provisions of Section 144 of CrPC. The team also seized five motorcycles, initiated disciplinary action against two examiners and caught five students while copying.
 
 Meanwhile, Rohtak police on Wednesday unearthed a racket with the arrest of four youths who were impersonating as invigilators at an examination centre in Bohar village. The arrested impersonators were identified as Amit of Siwana village in Jhajjar district, Kapil of Khanda village in Sonipat, Harbir of Peepli village in Sonipat and Sandeep of Hassangarh village in Rohtak. Police said the accused were doing duty in place of private school teachers allegedly for aiding students taking the exam at the centre in exchange of money. 
 
 The board official said they had registered over 400 unfair means of copying (UMC) cases across the examination centres in state and cancelled the paper at Hodal in Palwal district on Thursday after finding serious irregularities of mass copying.
 
 Differing over the board’s claim of acting tough, Wazir Singh Ghanghas, president of Haryana Vidyalya Adhyapak Sangh, claimed that the education board was giving more priority to private school teachers than government teachers in appointment of duties. Ghanghas told TOI, “For the first time in the history of board, private school teachers were appointed as supervisors who have no accountability towards examination system but were bound to serve loyalty of their employer.” 
 
 BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh said the staff of private schools was appointed to oversee the board exams of classes X and XII to avoid studies of the classes III to IX in the government schools as teachers were needed there.
 
