CHENNAI: Actor   who played a key role in the week-long jallikattu protests has sought a meeting with chief minister   to thank him for his efforts in lifting the ban on the  . After the fish market at Nadukuppam was gutted during clashes between locals and policemen on the last day of the protests, Lawrence has decided to donate Rs 10 lakh to refurbish the structure. The actor spoke to TOI about the leaderless movement and the violent turn it took.

 
 
 If only there had been a leader... Had I been there, I would have told the crowd that an ordinance copy bearing the governor's signature was coming and asked them to be seated. But there was nobody to say that. At that time (6am on Monday), the students had a copy without the signature.
 
 
 The negotiations between police and students about when to disperse took place over the microphone on the stage when protesters were still addressing the crowd. The protesters asked for two hours but the police paid no heed. You have to give the police credit though. They helped us throughout the week.But when they ended up forcing the protesters out, I felt hurt. I can't understand why they did that.
 
 
 I was not aware that it would happen. I was admitted to hospital with a neck injury.When my boys met me on Sunday night and told me that the ordinance copy was on its way, I said we should celebrate. They ordered a 500kg cake to end the protest on Monday. But when I answered my phone the next morning, I was told that half the protesters were thrown out. The rest took refuge by the shore.
 
 
 I rushed to Marina but all roads were blocked. I begged the police for two hours until an officer helped me get in. I told the kids that we had won. Many of them returned with me. Others, however, would not relent. They called me an outsider and asked me to get out. They demanded a separate Tamil nation. I understood these were not students. They belonged to some groups with vested interests.
 
 
 On the last few days, I found some people raising placards and slogans against the ruling governments at the state and Centre. The volunteers would ask them to stop it. I only felt that they were going overboard as they were too excited. I did not see their evil designs.
 
