MYSURU: The recent  , which took the life of a forest guard and destroyed over 200 hectares of forest in Bandipur, has been brought under control by the forest authorities with support from fire services   and tribals.

 The fire had spread in Bandipur National Park and Biligiriranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest staff had strived to douse the forest fire at Kalkere and N Begur in Bandipur, and Chikkaianagiri and Punajuru in   for the past two days.
 
 According to forest staff who fought the fire in Bandipur, the fire started at Punajuru range before being spread to Chikkaianagiri and Kurimandhe. As Satyamangala forest is attached to Punajuru range, workers struggled hard to contain the fire from spreading to the neighbouring state.
 
 On Thursday night, the fire was noticed in Himavad Gopalaswamy Hills. Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Heera Lal told STOI that nearly 250 staff in Bandipur, 200 in   and 250 in BRT, along with fire services personnel, joined hands to douse the fire. “We have brought the fire under control in Bandipur and Gopalaswamy Hills with their help,” he added.
 
 Firm quenches thirst of wild animals
 
 With hot weather and drying up water bodies in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, wild animals are struggling to find water to quench their thirst.
 
 Realizing the severity of the problem, officials from state-owned   (KAVIKA) have come forward to financially support the forest department in arranging water for wildlife in the forest.
 
 The company president S Manohar, managing director S V Govindharaju, executive director N K Ramachandra Rao and other staff have handed over Rs 2.5 lakh to Antharasanthe RFO Mahesh for the purpose.
 
 Company secretary K Chitra K said: “As wild animals are in trouble due to dry water bodies and shortage of water in the forest, KAVIKA, being concerned towards wild animals, has lent financial support to the department to purchase water from private water tankers. With the amount, the forest authorities can purchase two tanks of water daily for two months, that is, till the end of summer.”
 
 
