VASCO: It is a hot afternoon with the sun beating down hard on the streets of Goa. Standing on an open jeep, a ‘Gandhi topi’ to cover his head, is Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial candidate   on his state-wide Zhaadu Yatra. There are small bottles of water, fruits—largely oranges—and a bagful of topis, a trademark of the party.

 Gomes largely ignores the fruits, occasionally takes a sip of water, but it’s the Gandhi topi that he needs the most. Moving around in an open jeep means the topi is always in danger of being whipped away and his campaign managers make sure there is always one on hand. Image, during election time, is everything, and nothing symbolizes   more than the Gandhi topi, named after Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 The only time nobody minds Gomes without a topi is when he makes a customary stop outside a mosque. It’s the final stop of his Mormugao leg with former legislator and party candidate Karl Vaz in tow and Gomes has no hesitation pulling off his topi and accepting the Muslim skull cap, offered to him by a Muslim leader.
 
 Outside the mosque, habituated overwhelmingly by Muslims, his move sends the right signal. People cheer, volunteers shout slogans and many hug him as one of their own. Never mind, at the next stop, he is equally at ease when a lady applies tikka on his forehead.
 
 Gomes is a novice in politics but if you watched him during the Zhaadu Yatra, he appeared seasoned. Beginning his day early morning at   in Vasco with a fiery speech in Konkani, he aptly changes gears—at Mangor Hill, his address is in Hindi, and he takes everyone by surprise when he starts his speech in Kannada at New Vaddem. 
 
 “It’s been hectic for me but the party prospects have to be bolstered. These Zhaadu yatras help us connect with the common man. It increases visibility of our candidates especially since they are not mainstream politicians,” says Gomes, a former bureaucrat who quit his job despite being on the verge of being inducted into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).
 
 The Zhaadu yatra, though, appears to take a toll on the 53-year old. Since the yatra took off in Mandrem, Gomes starts his day at eight in the morning and ends it only at midnight. 
 
 His supporter,  , who travels along with him, speaks of how they have to campaign till late at night in Cuncolim, but Gomes himself has been left in no doubt that he will conquer his home first and then the state.
 
 “I have a strong volunteer base. Our grip on the constituency is as strong as ever and the announcement by   (on December 19 in Cuncolim) that I am the chief minister candidate has helped turn the corner,” said Gomes.
 
 It’s easy to understand why AAP wants Gomes to be part of these Zhaadu yatras, rather than entrusting the responsibilities to the respective candidates. Kejriwal’s speech in Cuncolim terming Gomes as a “gem” is repeatedly played out on loudspeakers and the former inspector general of prisons is introduced to all and sundry as Goa’s next chief minister.
 
 All through the yatra, Gomes hardly puts a foot wrong. He mingles easily with the crowd and makes eye-contact with those peering through their home’s windows, waving the zhaadu and reminding them to weed out the corrupt politicians on February 4.
 
 Only once is he found wanting, almost helpless. When a Malvani song is played and volunteers break into a dance, some encourage him to shake a leg. Gomes, though, would have none of it, he stays rooted to the ground.
 
 Even for someone who learnt the tricks of the trade quite fast, there are some things Gomes still needs to figure out.
 
