RANCHI: As many as 300 liaison officers are being trained to assist the state guests arriving in the city for the two-day Global Investors’ Summit (GIS),  , scheduled to beheld on February 16 and 17.

 The   probationers will be tag along foreign delegates while the rest will be deputed with state guests and corporate leaders. “At present we have a list of around 200 state guests and VIPS with whom liaison officers are to be tagged. However, we are prepared to cater to 300 guests,” officer on special duty (OSD) industries and nodal officer for protocol and liaison for GIS, Mukesh Kumar said.
 
 These liaison officers include probationary IAS officers and deputy collector-level officers and probationary officers from   (JAS) and  .
 
  “Around 100 liaison officers are from industries department, 50 from mining, 120 from JAS and JFS and the rest from irrigation department,” Kumar said.
 
 The liaison officers are being provided training for a number of things including etiquettes. So far they have undergone training in four phases and the final training is to be organised on February 13 and 14. 
 
 A mock drill will be organised for the officers on February 15. They will rehearse the entire process right from picking up the delegates from the airport to accompanying them to the summit venue and hotel. 
 
 The officers have been provided a list of dos and don’ts for a standard check and have also been given the numbers of all the liaison officers so they can coordinate with each other in need.
 
 “The liaison officers have been provided with a knowledge kit with contains information on ease of doing business in Jharkhand, policies and policy reforms of the state and other important information so that they are prepared with answers while interacting with the delegates,” Kumar said.
 
 As the liaison officers would be the first point of contact for the delegates the government wants them to be groomed properly. “They have to present a good image of the state and our hospitality,” Kumar said.
 
