AHMEDABAD: After the attempt failed to bring back   Hafizabanu from Riyadh where she has been allegedly confined by her employer and an agent, the city police has registered an   against a Mumbai agent named Farooq and Rehana, one of Hafizabanu’s relatives under the sections of   and conspiracy. 

  Rehana had brought Hafizabanu into contact with Farooq with a   in Saudi Arabia. A team of Ahmedabad police is camping in Mumbai to arrest Farooq. 
 
 Senior police officials said they were in touch with the woman and had even arranged for a ticket and exit visa through back channels to rescue her. “She was to arrive on March 16, but somehow did not board the plane from Riyadh,” a senior police official said. Police sources said they were worried as they had lost contact with the woman for several hours. “Even her relatives approached us alleging that she had been shifted to another address in Riyadh and had been illegally confined,” the official said.
 
 Top police sources said that for safety reasons they had chalked out a plan to first get her back to India and then lodge a complaint against the Mumbai agent and Rehana. “However, at the last moment the agent in Riyadh seems have to backtracked on his promise to send the woman back to India,” the official said. “We have learned that if the contract signed between the woman and her employer is prematurely terminated, the agent in Riyadh has to pay Rs 5 lakh to the employer. This might be the reason he backed out.”
 
 Meanwhile, women cell cops said they have informed the ministry of external affairs and the   about the developments. “We have asked for the intervention of the Indian embassy to verify whether the woman was ill-treated, or was subjected to slavery by her employer as the relatives of the woman allege,” the official said. A relative of the victim alleged that there was no support from the authorities and that they suspect that Hafizabanu is in deep trouble in Riyadh.
 
 Top police officials said they were making every effort to bring the woman back from Riyadh. “We are also verifying whether Saudi Arabian laws are being violated by the woman’s employer and the agent,” the official said.
 
