By: Jitender Dabas

 Last week, the Indian Army released a video showing heavy shelling of Pakistani military outposts in the Nowshera sector. All news channels celebrated it as India’s punitive response to Pakistan’s killing of two Indian soldiers. Within hours, the Pakistani Army too released a video, run by their media, in which they take ‘retaliatory’ action against the Indian army. But according to some reports, it was an old video, and hence, fake.
 
 In 2013, a video was circulated in Muzaffarnagar showing the brutal murder of two young men in a nearby village. This led to major riots between two communities in the area. As it turned out, the video was shot somewhere in Afghanistan. While the video was fake, the riots it led to were all too real.
 
 And in November 2016, prominent news channels told us the new Rs 2,000 currency notes were embedded with nano GPS chips to trace black money. 
 
 It was also claimed around Rs 4-5 lakh crore of black money will be eliminated from the economy as a result of demonetisation. Both claims turned out be false.
 
 Welcome to a world where the truth no longer matters. Welcome to a ‘post-truth’ world. ‘Post-truth’ caught everyone’s attention in 2016, on the back of the election of Donald Trump, and was chosen as word of the year by the Oxford Dictionary. It can be defined as, ‘Circumstances where objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion or personal belief’.
 
 There are many reasons why it is becoming easier to lie today than ever before. In a connected world where many have access to the internet, it isn’t difficult to indulge in ‘ullu banao-ing’ (as one mobile network operator so memorably described it).
 
 Firstly, we are consuming too much data, and our attention spans are diminishing. This challenges our ability to dig deeper and verify, and makes us susceptible to baits of sensational headlines. 
 
 Secondly, the credibility of established sources of information and news has eroded drastically. The 2017 Edelman Trust Barometer reported this ‘inversion of influence’, adding that while faith in big institutions is declining, trust in ‘people like me’ — the mass population — is rapidly rising.
 
 Finally, we are living in the most polarised of times. Sides are already taken, and our receptors are working to receive only signals that support our biases. We are guilty of forwarding or sharing old news reports and unverified videos without ever checking, because they reinforce the biases we carry. We are more likely to share a Yogi Adityanath story from a perspective that supports our prejudices, for or against him, than believe a report that presents an alternative view.
 
 Behavioural economics has proven to us the irrationality of human decision-making. And advertising has often successfully leveraged the power of subjective emotions over rational but boring facts for effective story-telling. Only that there’s a big difference. Advertising campaigns are subject to legalities, and consumer laws protect consumers from being lied to. The world over, consumer courts have heavily penalised brands caught being economical with the truth.
 
 Unfortunately, there is no such protection from lies peddled by politicians, or even the media. Politicians are lying and getting away with it. A Team Trump member brazenly presented lies as ‘alternative facts’. So where does this leave truth?
 
 As marketing teaches us, truth will need to become more competitive if it has to contend with  . Objective facts would need to be packaged and presented better, and sold aggressively.
 
 Truth also needs better spokespersons. And it will need help from us. In the new world, ‘we’ are the news channels transmitting much of what is circulating. We will have to become more responsible — and be alert to lies when we see them.
 
 (The author is chief strategy officer, McCann World Group)
 
