Mumbai:  , the New York-based private equity group, is acquiring a 49% stake in  , which is the operator of   (Mumbai) and   (Delhi) hospitals, for $200 million (about Rs 1,287 crore), the companies said on Monday. This will mark KKR’s first private equity investment in the country’s   sector, which is forecast to grow at an average annual rate of 13%, hitting Rs 6.85 lakh crore by the end of this decade.

 KKR will get three seats on the board of Radiant Life, which is promoted by  , a financial consultant-turned-entrepreneur. Soi will control the balance 51% in the venture. KKR had previously extended a loan of $85 million to Radiant and the fresh equity investment of $200 million is a continuation of its relationship with the hospital operator. 
 
 Radiant, said Soi, will use the money to retire debt and ramp up its presence. “Radiant will become almost debt-free post the fund infusion,” said Soi. 
 
 TOI first reported on KKR extending an $85-million loan in August last year, and the American investor’s talks to pick up an equity stake in Radiant in its March 22 edition.
 
 The company, which forayed into healthcare seven years ago, is in talks with three different players to snap up their hospitals. This newspaper had also reported about Radiant’s interest in buying the 350-bed Sahara Hospital in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh (UP). The Sahara hospital’s parent also owns land parcels in Bihar, Jharkhand and some other places in UP, all of which have regulatory approvals for setting up medical facilities.
 
 “As a student of finance, I once dreamt of working for KKR, and therefore partnering them today is a watershed moment for me,” said Soi.
 
 Last month, KKR had closed the Asian Fund III, raising $9.3 billion, to invest in companies across Asia-Pacific. In India, KKR has invested more than $3 billion in private equity transactions since 2006, the year it turned its focus on the country. Its private equity portfolio includes Bharti Infratel, Avendus Capital, Café Coffee Day, Max Financial and SBI Life.
 
 KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar said, “We had invested in the pharma space. But this (Radiant) is our first investment in the healthcare sector. Radiant makes for a compelling story compared to the listed hospital players whose valuations are in crazy multiples. This is an exciting time for healthcare in India, given the growing demand for superior medical treatment.” 
 
 Globally, KKR has stakes in the healthcare industry and its most prominent investment in the space is in HCA, America’s leading hospital operator.
 
 
