All of Hyderabad cheered on as city boy , LV   was adjudged   on Sunday night. And what made it extra special was the fact that his “all-time hero“, cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar, handed him the Indian Idol trophy . “It's a dream come true to win the title and it could not have been better than getting it from the legend himself,“ said the 27-year-old, adding, “I finally got my girl friend...“ referring to an earlier interview where he told Hyderabad Times, “Abhi ke liye Indian Idol he meri girlfriend hain...“
 
  Revanth, who rocked the finale, with his electrifying performance of Ude Dil Befikre, said he is overwhelmed by the support that poured in for him. “I thank every body who voted for me, especially the people of Hyderabad. I can't wait to be in Hyderabad and meet everyone,“ added the singer, as he took time out from all the celebrations in Mumbai for a telecon.
  
  Excerpts.
  
  So, has the feeling sunk in yet...?
  
  I am already having a `celebrity wala' feeling... I partied till 2 am with other participants and crew members of the show.
  
  We danced like there's no tomorrow. But then I had to get up early in the morning as I had promotional activities and interviews lined-up. It's all pretty crazy!
  
  You got pretty emotional on stage when you were declared Indian Idol 2017!
  
  Tears rolled down my mother's eyes when I won the title; that got me emotional. When I hugged her, the first thing she told me was `Revanth, I know you are good, but always be humble'.Sachin sir also said the same thing and asked me to not let success get to my head. I had lost my father before I was born, so I know the importance of family .I have been brought up in a humble environment and I'll never forget my roots.
  
  What was the toughest part of this three-month journey to the title?
  
  Being away from my home had to be the toughest bit; but then I found another family here --­ the Indian Idol family . It was a tough test. Before participating in the show, people's opinions and criticism took a toll on me. A lot of people used to say things such as `Isko toh Hindi nahi ati, yeh toh already playback singer hain, kyun aya hain participate karne,' and all that. Initially, that hurt. But I took the criticism in my stride and went out to prove my worth. I took it as a challenge and I won.
  
  Like I've said before, I'm an untrained singer and I have worked really hard to win this title. But there were people on the show, like my teachers Anand and Arun sir, who would constantly encouraged me and boost my confidence. So yes, it's been a great journey and I think all three of us -Rohit, Khuda Baksh and me -are winners.
  
  
 
  
  Was   your favourite judge? You even gifted him a collage of your selfies with him...
  
  To tell you the truth,   sir was like a `raakshas'. He's so good, he'd pick on every line we sang and correct us. I salute his commitment to perfection.Farah Khan was sweet; like a mother -she made sure we didn't miss our family . But Anu malik sir was the one who first believed in me. From day one, he lieved in me. From day one, would say , `Revanth, you're my Indian Idol.' I remember my first gala round performance was not so good as I was suffering from a throat infection, but Anu sir pulled me up. He always taught me like a teacher and supported me like a family member. So yes, I have a soft corner for him.
  
  You've already sung the title track for the upcoming reality show Sabse Bada Kalakar. And this win will open more avenues for you. Are you plan ning to shift your base from Hyderabad to Mumbai?
  
  I am not shifting from Hyderabad. It's my hometown and I love being there. I will travel to Mumbai for whatever projects I get, but my base will always be Hyderabad. I've got a few offers, so I'm hoping for the best.I will rock Bollywood soon.
  
  Your prize money is a cool `25 lakh! What do you plan to do with it?
  
  I've given the cheque to my mother. I will donate some amount to charity for sure. For the past five to six years, whatever I've earned singing in Tollywood films or doing shows, I've always given half of the amount to orphanages and schools. It makes me happy .
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
