KOCHI:   has ordered a   ( ) by vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) into the allegations that officials of Kochi corporation and Maradu municipality amassed wealth disproportionate to their known sources of income. 

 The court has asked the vigilance sleuths to complete the QV into the allegations that the officials issued permits and occupancy certificates to many builders overlooking coastal regulations zone (CRZ) violations before May 5. According to the petition lodged by Kochi-based RTI activist K T Cheshire, the corporation and municipality officials have issued building permits on either side of Chilavannoor backwaters without no objection certificate (NOC) from   (KCZMA), which is mandatory for constructions in such areas. 
 
 Though the complainant in his petition also alleged that there were rampant encroachment on the Chilavannoor backwaters, the court decided to limit the scope of QV to the disproportionate asset amassed by the officials. The court observed that, since there were similar investigations already going on into the allegations of encroachment there was no need for another inquiry in the same issue. 
 
 At the same time, the court found merit in the demand by the petitioner to probe the allegations that the civic body officials were hand in glove with the builders and they were helping the builders and thereby amassing wealth. The complainant produced documents to show that large scale violations of CRZ notification were committed in the limits of Kochi corporation and Maradu minicplaity. The existence of three vigilance cases also supported the contention of the complainant that a large scale corruption was taking place, the court observed. 
 
 “It is difficult to get direct evidence regarding illegal gratification in each and every case. But this will reflect in the way of life of the public servants who are directly involved. So, I am of the view that an inquiry regarding the assets of those officers who are directly involved is justified in this case,” said the court.
 
 The vigilance is asked to conduct the QV in to the asset details of 17 officials from Kochi corporation and seven from Maradu municipality. The court exempted three IAS officers who had served as secretaries of Kochi corporation during the period when the violations were reported. As per the verdict, these officials are not directly involved in the issuance of permits. 
 
 “Building inspectors, assistant executive engineers and town planners who are directly involved can be suspected,” the court observed in the judgment.
 
 According to the petitioner, the authorities had not taken any action with regard to an earlier order of the high court for surveying the total extent of Chilavannoor backwaters. As per the order, district administration should have submitted a report to the court as preliminary step for surveying the backwaters almost ten days ago, which they failed to do. 
 
