NEW DELHI: Three days after Congress veteran A K Walia threatened to quit the party, other senior functionaries on Thursday expressed resentment over the ticket distribution system adopted by DPCC chief Ajay Maken. They also urged the Congress high command to step in and quell the unrest within the party.

 Top party sources said following instructions from Congress president  , her political secretary Ahmed Patel met Walia, along with former cabinet ministers, Arvinder Singh Lovely and Haroon Yusuf. It is learnt that the three shared their grievances with Patel.
 
 Earlier in the day, Mangat Ram Singhal, who too served as a minister in the Sheila Dikshit government, alleged that Maken had given tickets to people who are not even from Congress.
 
 “We are agitated with the way things are being run under Maken’s leadership. None of the senior party functionaries were kept in the loop or even asked for their opinions on distribution of tickets. Maken decides everything on his own without even consulting us,” he said during a press conference at Rajya Sabha MP Parvez Hashmi’s residence. “We tried to meet Maken but couldn’t get appointment. Maken is not even picking up our phone calls. The situation is alarming and there is a major unrest within the party.” 
 
 He claimed four family members of a party leader had been given tickets. “There are also complaints of use of money, which needs to be clarified by Maken,” Singhal added.
 
 Maken refused to comment on the matter.
 
 Singhal, however, said workers were told not to resort to violence. “We will take up the matter with party president Sonia Gandhi and vice-president Rahul Gandhi,” he said.
 
 Singhal said that they will appeal to the Congress high command to remove Maken from the post of DPCC president. 
 
 Sources said that many other senior party leaders, who had raised similar concerns, did not turn up at the meeting. Former MP Sandeep Dikshit also recently expressed his concerns over the leadership of Maken, claiming that DPCC has turned into a one-man army and was functioning like a business house.
 
 Meanwhile, members from the Delhi Pradesh Parvatiya Congress Committee claimed that no one from the community (people from the hills) was given tickets to contest the municipal polls. Committee chairman Brij Mohan said that 25 names were given to DPCC, but they were rejected. 
 
 “We are disappointed with Maken’s behaviour. Our committee was formed by Maken himself one and half years ago, but now we have been isolated by the party,” he added.
 
 He pointed out that the job of the Parvatiya committee is to ensure that people from states like Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh remain connected with Congress.
 
