Studies suggest conscious efforts to look and feel younger may remove wrinkles and actually add years to your life.

 Hello there, how’s your Sunday going so far? Are you happy about your day off, or are you scowling already as the Monday Blues draws closer? The answer to this question may decide how young, or old, you look as you step into the new week. It may even decide how long you live! 
 
 Psychologist and author   said a few decades ago that “ageing definitely appears to be related to mood”. In his book, Secrets of the Superyoung: The scientific reasons some people look ten years younger than they really are and how you can, too!, he says the mantra to looking younger is being fit, having a zest for life and being continuously interested in everything.
 
 Cut to the present, his research and book couldn’t have been more to the point. This is a generation perpetually drunk on the elixir of life. Walk into a mall and you’ll see a mother and daughter trying out the same outfit, or the father and son buying the same sports gear for a healthy run to the finish. Walk into any office, and you won’t be able to differentiate the boss from her/his juniors. Look at the glamour world: From Madhuri Dixit to Jennifer Lopez, Sridevi to Angelina Jolie, Shah Rukh Khan to Bradley Cooper… they are all stars well over 40, but hardly look their age. Jennifer Aniston, Gwyneth Paltrow, Salma Hayek, Angelina Jolie are pushing waifish teens off magazine covers, starring in movies, inspiring cosmetics and fragrances, wearing bikinis at the beach and minis to the mall. Middle-age doesn’t look the way it used to. It’s become impossible to play the guessing game right when it comes to age these days.
 
 
 
 Singer ShalmaliKholgade, 27, hardly looks her age. “I have the energy of a teenager. If you look stressed, drag yourself out of bed on an everyday basis, you will look older,” she says. 
 
 VandanaLuthra, who’s been in the business of beauty for decades says, “The secret of those who look super young is that they live their lives to the highest potential – play a sport, habitually take care of their bodies and have a super positive outlook towards life.” Great stamina, according to her, takes years off a person’s face.
 
 In fact, according to emerging medical research, if you look younger than someone of equal age, you may live longer than they will. And, if you look older than your age, medical science now tells us, you have a greater chance of dying younger! 
 
 The frenetic pace of the last few decades has resulted in a generation exhausted early on; but it’s also a generation that has started grooming themselves holistically and understand that their mind, body and soul are connected. “How we think, work, spend our time, sleep and even our approach towards ageing all play a vital role in how old we feel,” says socialite Ramneek Pantal.
 
 
 
 Weeks’ book said the most common “super young” factor is optimism: People who are curious, problem solvers and pro-active, look and feel younger. Actor Neil Bhoopalam says, “The more we understand time, matter, food, and movement of mass, the younger we will stay. When we eat right, exercise on a daily basis and are mindful of our surroundings, we look younger. My generation practises this philosophy.”
 
 Robert Harrison, late professor of Italian literature at Stanford, who studied nature and human nature through literature, religion and mythology, said in his book, Juvenescence: A cultural history of our age, “The young have become a model of emulation for the older population, rather than the other way around. This has unleashed extraordinary youthful energies in our species and represents one of the momentous revolutions in human cultural history.”
 
  The pro-youth culture that has been widely prevalent in the last four decades all over the world has resulted in ascendance of youthfulness over age in our modern culture. Beauty blogger JasminaBharwani says, “Your own perception of how old you feel can make a huge difference. More than age, it’s the attitude that makes you look younger. There’s also more acceptance of ageing. Our generation is ageing more gracefully and adapting different options to look younger.” There’s a plethora of information on how to stay young from celebrities, bloggers, Instagramers and Youtubers. “Rise in advertising and the internet has made it easy for people to understand how to style outfits, look slim and use makeup to look younger,” adds Bharwani.
 
  People above 50 are bungee-jumping, getting married, travelling the world and pursuing their heart’s desires fervently. The quest for ‘permayouth’ has spread globally. Dermatologist Dr GeetaFazalbhoy says, “The search for ‘permayouth’ is an obsession for people. Healthy lifestyle changes, exercise, yoga and de-stress activities are reversing the ageing process. People may be advancing age-wise, but getting old as we knew it, is over.”
 
 Cosmetologist and trichologist Dr Vandana Punjabi says people are extremely disciplined about using night creams with retinol, glycolic acid, peptides, vitamin C, hyaluronic acid etc. that boost collagen production and cell turnover. “Age is a myth today. Everyone wants to be young forever, and is working hard towards it.”
  
 So, are we still scowling over Monday Blues?
 
 
 
 Gina Pell, an award-winning creative director, tech entrepreneur and content chief of a fast-growing email newsletter, The What, coined the term ‘Perennials’, in 2016, to describe ever-blooming people of all ages, who continue to push up against their growing age, always relevant, and not defined by their generation. “They are forever young, forever blooming, forever perennial,” she says.
 Author Catherine Mayer, who coined the term ‘Amortality’ in her book, Amortality: The Pleasures and Perils of Living Agelessly, said in an interview to Time: “Amortals live among us. In their teens and 20s, they may seem preternaturally experienced. In later life, they often look young and dress younger. They have kids early or late — sometimes very late — or not at all.”
 
 A new study by Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a non-profit organisation in Washington, US, shows, people who look younger really are ageing slower.
 
 
