Visakhapatnam: If all goes well, the issue of land acquisition for the nuclear power plant proposed to be built at Kovvada in Srikakulam district will be resolved by October this year what with the assurances given by the Srikakulam district administration to the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), a public sector enterprise under the administrative control of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India.

 According to NPCIL project director G V Ramesh, the project requires total 2,067 acres of land. The state government has already handed over 485 acres of land through the Srikakulam district administration.
 
 The government will have to hand over the remaining share of 1,582 acres by October. The Srikakulam district administration has assured the NPCIL to transfer the balance share in two phases in August and October this year. “The state government has assured us of transfer of 1,000 acres in August and 582 acres in October. If it happens, the issue of land acquisition for the nuke project will be solved,” Ramesh told TOI.
 
 The NPCIL has been pursuing the land issue with Srikakulam collector K Dhanunjaya Reddy for the last few months to establish the country’s giant atomic power plant in the coastal village Kovvada of Ranasthalam mandal of Srikakulam district.
 
 The land acquisition process was delayed due to a stiff opposition from the villagers whose lands would be considered for the acquisition for the purpose of the plant.
 
 “Now, the villagers have agreed to accept the compensation of Rs 18 lakh per acre to be offered under the Land Acquisition Act of 2013. The acquisition process is going on. We will be able to pool nearly 1,000 acres by August,” said a revenue official from Srikakulam.
 
 Apart from payment of compensation to the lands acquired, the state government is also committed to building a model colony for the 2, 200 oustees at Dharmavaram village in Etcherla. This apart, the NPCIL will also build a township for the NPCIL staff and employees in around 350 acres at Kotcherla in the district.
 
 
