GURUGRAM: Merkle, the international performance   specialising in data-based marketing solutions, now has an Indian presence, marking its first foray into the Asia-Pacific region. The Baltimore-based agency will be known as   Sokrati, after Mumbai-based Dentsu Aegis Network disclosed last week that it had signed a ‘definitive agreement’ to acquire  , the country’s leading data-driven performance marketing and analytics agency.

 The move is expected to further scale up Dentsu Aegis India’s data and performance marketing offering, and enable the network to take an even more dominant position in the rapidly growing Indian digital advertising market. Indeed, with Sokrati now on board,   will grow to more than twice the size of any of their competitors in search and performance, with 35 percent of revenue expected to come from digital, and digital professionals anticipated to make up around 43 percent of total India staff.
 
 Meanwhile, Pune-based Sokrati has been consecutively ranked inside Deloitte’s list of top 50 Technology Companies in India, over the last four years (besides winning several Google India awards). Said Nick Waters, CEO of Dentsu Aegis Network Asia Pacific, “India is the fastest growing ‘large economy’ in the world. It is on track for 400 million smartphone users, making it second only to China, and has emerged as a major e-commerce market. 
 
 “Sokrati’s strength in mobile, e-commerce, data, analytics and performance media provides an ideal basis from which to launch Merkle in India as we develop the roll-out plan for Asia Pacific,” added Waters.
 
 Ashish Bhasin – chairman and CEO of Dentsu Aegis Network South Asia – pointed out how the group has over time become a leader in performance marketing services. “Sokrati has strong ability in CRM and data to accelerate the launch of Merkle in India and further bolster our data practice, which is becoming increasingly critical in all aspects of our business. It will also give our clients added value as we bring CRM and data into the heart of our digital offering,” said Bhasin. 
 
 Sokrati’s co-founders – Ashish Mehta, CEO, Anubhav Sonthalia, Enterprise Business Head, and Santosh Kumar Gannavarapu, Head of Innovations – will be joining the Dentsu Aegis Network leadership team in India. Sonthalia will be the CEO of Merkle Sokrati and report to Vivek Bhargava (CEO of Performance, Dentsu Aegis Network India) and Zhengda Shen, President of Merkle Asia Pacific.
 
 “It is not often you meet amazing talent with the same drive and mindset, and we could not be more pleased to be joining forces with world-leading agency Merkle, as we expand our global footprint as part of Dentsu Aegis Network,” shared Sonthalia.
 
 
