Nagpur: In an unprecedented move, chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao on Saturday terminated the services of Ravi Prakash Dani, vice-chancellor of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV), just about 15 days before the end of his tenure. He is the second VC from non-traditional universities to be sacked just days before completion of his tenure, after MAFSU ex-VC Arun Ninawe, who was removed over illegal recruitment charges. Even though the chancellor’s PRO Umesh Kashikar cited Dani’s “dual citizenship” as the reason behind his termination, senior officials from the university said he was facing charges on 17 counts, including fraudulent increase in marks of PhD students and non-compliance of Supreme Court’s verdict on recruitments. Kashikar said the VC’s services were terminated “with immediate effect” on the grounds of him not being a citizen of India, as per the Citizens Act, 1955. The highest office sought opinion of the state law and judiciary department, advocate general and Union ministry of external affairs in this regard. Dani refused to answer TOI’s calls but replied through an SMS that even he was surprised over the decision, which came after four years and 11 months and just 15 days before the completion of his tenure. Thereafter, he stated that former VC of Parbhani and Rahuri, DK Salunkhe, was holding dual citizenship in the 90s. Recently, Punjab Agriculture University appointed MS Kang, who was not even carrying ‘Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)’ card. “When I was interviewed by the VC search panel members and then governor K Sankaranarayanan, this was the first query. I categorically told them that it was the Indian government that cancelled my citizenship and provided OCI status to me. How can I be wrong if they had appointed me despite being aware of all the facts? The termination would make little difference to me,” Dani said. Stating that he was seeking legal opinion from Kang, he refused to comment on other allegations, making it clear that termination orders mentioned only “dual citizenship” as the cause of his removal. “Everyday, there are hundreds of complaints against VCs and someone may lodge it before MCAER. Not all of them are true. I don’t want to comment on other issues as those don’t find any mention in the chancellor’s orders,” he said. The trouble started mounting on the beleaguered VC since last year when the chancellor called on former revenue minister Eknath Khadse, also the PDKV pro-chancellor, after receiving a host of complaints against him. The closed-door meeting on April last year lasted for over two-and-a-half hours. Subsequently, the file containing allegations and others charges against Dani was moved to the chancellor on May 22, 2016, by the PDKV authorities. Thereafter, two PDKV Executive Council members — Gopi Thakre and Nitin Hiwase — lodged complaints against him with Maharashtra Council of Agricultural Education and Research (MCAER) after he failed to respond to a slew of queries. The apex body then constituted a panel to probe charges and found him allegedly guilty on 17 counts, including large scale financial irregularities, failure to follow directives of the pro-chancellor, and non-cooperation. MCAER had received complaints from the students and teachers in this regard. Officials said he had developed a garden on the PDKV premises in Akola and planned to name it after his father. A meeting of executive council was convened on Friday, but was cancelled at the last moment, as he had got intimation about Saturday’s developments. Officials claimed that Dani was also selected to head Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) in Delhi by the Centre, but his dual citizenship came in its way. However, the Maharashtra government, the chancellor’s office and the search panel failed to notice this discrepancy and appointed him on PDKV’s top post.