HYDERABAD: To  ,   announced a slew of measures, including   in police stations like  . The government also provided the force with new vehicles for effective policing. On the ground, the steps seem to have failed to check corruption. The government could not demolish the booming transfer industry which includes `sale' and 'recommendations' for `perfect' postings.

 Sources in the home department said at least 80 senior officers above rank of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) are facing serious allegations of corruption and the state government was unable to initiate action against them due to lack of evidence. Another reason cited is that victims of graft are scared of giving written statements to investigation officers.
 
 Afew days ago, the state government shunted out a superintendent of police from the erstwhile Ranga Reddy district on charges of corruption. Now, the police department ordered an inquiry into corruption charges against a deputy superintendent of police of Parigi subdivision of Vikarabad district.
 
 The department got complaints against the DSP that he allegedly fixed amounts to each police station under his jurisdiction and asked them to remit the amount to his account monthly . He reportedly told subordinates he paid huge money to get his posting and wanted to recoup `expenses'.According to sources in the home department, the police officer reportedly `extorted' from SIs of police stations in his jurisdiction, with a particular SI collecting the amount, ostensibly for office establishment charges and purchase of furniture for his new office.
 
 “An inquiry has been ordered against Parigi DSP on two counts. One pertains to demanding money from subordinates and also purchase of furniture in his office. We received intelligence reports on these allegations. A detailed inquiry has been ordered on the DSP ,“ deputy inspector-general of police (Hyderabad range) Akun Sabharwal told TOI on Friday .
 
 Sources said illegal sand quarrying and transportation in erstwhile Ranga Reddy district -now split into Ranga Reddy , Vikarabad and Medchal districts -has become major source of illegal revenue for police and other government staff.“A SI of Parigi sub-division held a meeting with sand transporters and fixed monthly mamools,“ said a senior official.Revenue officials are said to be hand-in-glove with police.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Parigi DSP , Mohammad Ashfaq said on Friday , he was not aware about any inquiry against him.“Some sand contractors are spreading lies about me, including corruption as I am taking action against illegal sand transporters.“
 
