NAGPUR: Ever since its inaugurating by chief minister   on January 1, the   has reunited as many as 20 couples in the district.

 Altogether 270 cases has been registered till date with the cell, of which 197 cases were lodged in January. The remaining 73 cases were reported this month. 
 
 Bharosa cell, a multi-nodal unit to offer assistance to distressed woman under one roof, tackles several sensitive cases in a positive manner to get on to a successful conclusion. The cell comprises female staff members and a few male assistants, a protection officer, legal advisors and around five women counsellors. It also consists of a temporary shelter in case of emergency.
 
 “There are many issues which give raise to domestic violence in the family. A few of them, which proved to be major reasons for destroying a married life, include extra-marital affairs, undue interference of third person between the couple, alcoholism, doubting on partner’s character, thrashing and misunderstandings,” senior PI   told TOI.
 
 “Sustained   provokes one to take drastic steps like suicide or attempt to murder,” Sankhe said.
 
 “Of the 197 registered cases, 14 couples were successfully reunited in January. We also solved six matters of domestic feud of the 73 complaints registered this month. These couples, who underwent sustained sessions of counselling, were not forced to stay together and the results came out from their willingness of continuing marital life,” the PI said.
 
 “Meanwhile, around 12 men too approached the cell. These issues are under process,” Sankhe added.
 
 In one of solved cases, a well-educated couple who got married in 2009, wanted to get separated as the husband (45), a doctor, had an affair with another married woman (38). The wife tried her best to get her partner back. She then approached Sankhe and shared her plight. The man was called up at the cell for counselling. After attending four consecutive sessions, he admitted to his mistakes.
 
 In another case, a labourer (45) got married to a woman half his age eight years ago. The complainant was being forced to earn to provide him money for liquor. The matter was transferred to the legal advisor as the woman wanted a divorce. But now, the couple is happily living together.
 
