CHENNAI:  's   is one among the many consistent performers the ongoing 10th edition of the   ( ) has seen. The bandana-wearing medium-pacer delivered each time the ball has been tossed to him, and been a good support for   at the death overs. In Saturday's game against Rising Pune Supergiant, Siddarth bowled the last over conceding just 6 runs, but more importantly dismissed MS Dhoni and   to finish with 4 for 29. In the 7 matches that Siddarth has played this season, he has scalped 12 wickets at an average of 19.33.

 What has caught the attention of many has been Siddarth's calm head despite bowling the end overs on most occasions. To be in the best shape mentally, Siddarth -- ahead of any game -- performs Buddhist techniques of breathing and Asanas that have been taught to him by his mental conditioning coach Amit Bhattacharjee. Buddhist breathing techniques aim to develop concentration, tranquility, mindfulness and insight.
 
 Amit, who has been mentor to ace shooter Abhinav Bindra and associate Erikson coach from Erikson Coaching International, believes Siddarth has is blessed with a strong mind and great work ethic. Revealing a particular session with Siddarth, Amit told TOI, "Mind mapping and meditation is the key. We made Siddarth visualize bowling from the top of one 7-floor building to another and on a wooden plank joining the two. Now the task requires him to bowl which is his primary role while the height, balancing on the plank are the other areas he must concentrate on. The same task is then replicated at the ground level and how aspects of height and balancing of plank becomes easier."
 
 That's not all. Siddarth's energy management sessions allow him to control his adrenaline rush. "During matches, Siddarth does a few exercises which sooths the pressure points. What those exercises or stretches do is making him remain calm during crisis situation," Amit said.
 
 Amit has a session with Siddarth before any game over the phone. Not surprisingly, Amit also is the mental coach of Punjab's   and his clientele also includes international chess master Sayantan Das and golfers Ajeetesh Sandhu, Ayan Gupta among others.
 
