NAGPUR: Even though   (NIT) has got possession of only one-tenth area of its  , it has decided to start   on it. This will encourage other land owners, who have so far not agreed for land pooling, to sign agreements with the civic agency.

 Under NIT’s land pooling scheme, the land owner has to give 40% of his land to NIT while the agency develops the remaining 60%. The owner also has to pay development charges for his share of land.
 
 Sujata Kadu, deputy director of town planning of NIT metro region, told TOI that of the 430 land owners of Mihan township, NIT had signed agreements with 75 so far. “We have now 102 hectares of the total 1,008. This land is more or less contiguous so we can start development works,” she said.
 
 According her, NIT will spend Rs 497 crore on providing roads, water supply, sewerage, storm water drains and water recycling. “We will begin with roads,” she added. “Some of the land we have got – about 13 to 14 parcels of the 75 – is Class II land. We have submitted application in district collectorate to convert it into Class I land. Once okayed, we will start building roads,” Kadu told TOI.
 
 NIT has already paid Rs 33 crore to Maharashtra   (MJP) to develop a water treatment plant (WTP) at Shankarpur. This will supply water to the Mihan and Khadka-Kirmiti townships of NIT. As the Mihan township is near Mahametro’s Mihan depot, NIT is developing a bus stand and autorickshaw stand near the depot. This will provide connectivity to the township residents.
 
 On raising the required Rs 497 crore, Kadu said some amount would be spent by NIT itself. “All 75 land owners with whom we have signed an agreement have deposited 5% development charges. Plus we will sell our share of land to raise money,” she added.
 
 On Khadka-Kirmiti township, Kadu said memoranda of understanding (MoU) for handing over land to NIT had been signed with 200 of 288 land owners. “We will sign agreements with the land owners after we complete Mihan township,” she added.
 
 The plan for   logistics park is ready and its development plan (DP) has been sent to state government for approval. Agreements will be signed with land owners once the DP is okayed.
 
