Can you believe, two million years ago about 2,00,000   walked on planet earth. At the turn of the 20th century their population is believed to have plummeted to 1,00,000, and India was home to 40,000 of them. But only 1800 of them were left in 1972, when ‘Project Tiger’ was launched and it fell to 1400 in 2008. Now the number has jumped to 3,200 out of which over 2,200 live in India. In other words, India is home to close to 70 per cent of the world’s population of Tigers. So it would be stating the obvious to say: We all share the responsibility of ensuring that the survival of this majestic cat. But there is reason to celebrate this International Tiger Day today as the numbers are poised to further increase according to a latest survey. 

 
 
 Nagarjuna Sagar Tiger Reserve, which also included Amrabad Tiger Reserve was India’s largest Tiger reserve before bifurcation of the state in 2013. It had about 59 Tigers back then and it went up to 68 in 2014. “The good news is that the recent Tiger Census which is yet to be tabulated has found that the number has gone up to 90,”  , founder of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society.
 
 Mohan Chandra Pargaien, Field director, Amrabad Tiger Reserve, concurs saying, “We believe that the number of tigers stands at a minimum of 40 in  , post bifurcation. In Telangana we have 19 tigers including 6 from   and 12 from Amrabad Tiger Reserve adding, “Thanks to the concerted efforts of Andhra and Telangana governments, there has been a significant rise in tiger population. We have about 300 artificial water holes in which we fill water using large tankers and solar-powered borewells. And there are about 60 base camps from where the watchers conduct GPS based patrolling.” 
 
 
 
 Ironically though, the rising numbers are only leading to more tiger deaths. A recent report by the   (NTCA) and   reveals that 
 infighting killed more tigers than poachers. Of the 407 deaths that occurred between January 2011 and September 2016, the study could ascertain specific causes in only 200 cases. While 52 of these deaths were caused by poaching, 67 are a result of territorial fights, states the report stressing on the need to safeguard corridors linking tiger habitats that stretch across states. 
 
 The tiger habitat in AP and Telangana once extended to about 40,000 sq km. This has shrunk to about 22,000 sq km making them increasingly vulnerable to poachers, who exploit the loopholes in the law and go scot-free. “At present, the forest department doesn’t have a proper legal cell comprising professional advocates to ensure that poachers are punished in the court of law. As a result, many of the criminals caught for poaching walk free,” rues Manoranjan Bhanja, Additional Principle Chief Conservator of Forest/ Wildlife. 
 
 “Recently, we got an alert that the Bawariya group of poachers from Haryana have entered Andhra Pradesh. So, we have made our patrolling stronger,” says S Saravanan, Field Director of Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve. 
 
 Official records indicate that a majority of the 407 deaths were reported from the 41,974 sqkm stretch of jungles across Maharashtra, Telangana, AP, Odisha, MP, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, that are home to 688 tigers.
 
 
 
 “With a burgeoning human population eating into their natural habitats, tigers are now forced to compete for the resources among themselves and not just with man. Unless you make the forest area completely free of any human occupation, the tigers will always be fighting a losing battle, ” says Bhanja.
 
 As the tiger population has become fragmented in wild life sanctuaries, a limited pool of tigers is available for mating and their genes are becoming weak as a result, says Imran Siddiqui. “So it is imperative to find ways to link forests to improve the intermingling of tigers,” he adds. 
 But prospects don’t look bright for India’s fabled big cat as their habitats are increasingly being destroyed by a bevy of development projects that have sprouted in the heart of the jungles that they reside in. 
 “Tigers are the protectors of India’s forests. If we don’t act fast, the ecosystem of forests as a whole will be destroyed,” rues Imran.
 
 
 
 The tiger population in Telangana is on the decline due to official apathy. Of the dozen tigers that came in to Adilabad only two managed to reach Kawal Tiger alive. All of them were poached. The big cat has almost disappeared completely from the forests of Warrangal, Khammam. Tigers are the protectors of India’s forests. If don’t act fast, the ecosystem of forests as a whole will be destroyed — Imran Siddique, founder, Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society 
 
 
