Derrick Pereira was startled when he reached the Tilak Maidan in Vasco to take charge of Churchill Brothers SC for the first time on Saturday.
 
  The chief coach arrived about 15 minutes prior to the scheduled training time of 8am but nobody seemed to be around. Was he at the wrong place, or at the wrong time? The team, normally arriving well before schedule, was missing and it took a couple of calls for Derrick to figure out that the team bus was stuck in traffic; the railway crossing to be precise.
  
  It was not really an auspicious start but Derrick didn’t mind that. For the next 90 minutes when he got the team up and running, the players seemed eager to please the new boss, although Derrick has made it clear that he will need former coach, and now his assistant, Alfred Fernandes, to provide him with all the updates.
  
  “I don’t want to make too many changes since this is my first match. I don’t want to confuse them. We just worked on set pieces and I cut off shadow training in defence and attack. I want to change a few things but need more time,” Derrick told TOI after he was finished with his first training session.
  
  Derrick took his time gauging the strength, and weakness, of his team. He has watched Churchill play this season and has been impressed with players like Adil Khan and Richard Costa. But with most players training under him for the first time, it will not be easy going, not at least at the start.
  
  “I’ve said it all along (this season) that teams like Churchill, Chennai City and Minerva will struggle because they hardly got any time to prepare. You can see this; it reflects on the points table. The understanding is missing. If Churchill had enough time before the league, they would have done better,” said the former   coach.
  
  Churchill, as it stands, are at the bottom of the table with six points from nine matches. They won their last match at home – against mighty Bengaluru FC – but have since then collected just two points from their four away matches.
  
  With Minerva Punjab FC, Chennai City FC and DSK Shivajians, all exempted from relegation due to their direct entry into the  , Churchill will have to finish above Mumbai FC who are placed eighth with eight points from 10 matches to avoid relegation.
  
  Churchill’s position presents a unique challenge for Derrick, who despite all his years in  , has never taken charge of a team midway into the competition.
  
  “I want to be on the field. Football is my life and I couldn’t stay away. When I take charge (of teams) I don’t see which position they are in. I joined DSK Shivajians (last year) when they were scheduled to play in the second division. I want to get involved in football and since I was not coaching any team this season, I was planning to start my own training for kids which had to be shelved because of unavailability of grounds.
  
  “This is a big challenge for me. I have never been in this situation but I love challenges and I want to see what I can do with Churchill. I am used to building teams but here I must find solutions in a short period. I am working on it,” said Derrick.
