PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Summer brings water woes to many housing societies in  , making residents spend lakhs of rupees on tankers. 

 One society in Pimple Saudagar has shown how such wasteful expenditure can be curbed.   implemented a   project on its premises and is now reaping the harvest of its foresight. The society is spread over 12 acres comprising 1,000 flats in 30 buildings.
 
 Chairman   said the total daily demand of water at present is 10 to 12 lakh litres, but they receive only 70,000 to 80,000 litres per day from PCMC. 
 
 “In 2009, we started implementing rainwater harvesting to recharge groundwater so that we can draw from the borewells and reduce our dependence on tankers. The pilot project was implemented in six buildings for Rs 2.5 to Rs 3 lakh. The expenditure on implementing the project is around Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 per building. We started rainwater harvesting in seven to eight buildings, every year. We don’t need any water tankers in summer.” 
 
 Roseland Residency’s success can be replicated by other housing societies.  , chairman of   housing society, said, “Our society has 450 flats and 40 row houses. We need six lakh litres of water per day but get only two lakh litres from PCMC. All the four borewells in the society dry up in February and we have to depend on water tankers for our daily needs from February to May.”
 
 Anil Deore, secretary of   and Condominium co-operative society, said, “ Our society is only three years old. It has 350 flats and we receive only 35,000 litres of water per day from PCMC instead of the 1.25 lakh litres we require. In 2016, we had to get tankers from February. We spend around Rs 2 lakh per month on them.” 
 
 Both housing societies implemented rainwater housing projects on their premises to recharge ground water levels so that their borewells can yield water, but did not benefit.
 
 Maskar said they would help other housing societies in Pimple Saudagar to effectively implement rainwater harvesting and check the waste of lakhs of rupees on commissioning water tankers.
 
