Nagpur: Eighteen scientists from the city have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi endorsing mustard expert Sharad E Pawar’s concerns over flaws in GM crop Dhara Mustard Hybrid-11 (DMH-11). They requested the PM not to allow environment ministry to release the hybrid. Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC) had cleared the crop for commercial cultivation. The scientists said that the GM hybrid would create male sterility in other crops. They also are objecting to this GM as it is herbicide tolerant (HT) which too has detrimental effect on other crops. The scientists have pointed out their observations and said that the GEAC ignored serious issues. Some prominent scientists in the list include former vice chancellor of the PDKV University Sharad Nimbalkar, former pulses scientist PDKV Akola KB Wanjari, former director of Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR) MS Kairon, ex-associate director research JNKV Jabalpur ND Raut, and former head of Botany department of Nagpur University AD Chaudhary. The letter says that the DMH-11 has dominant male sterility system based on Bar-Barnase-Barstar gene. But to make use of the sterile plants of female parent of hybrid sister plants in the female line are to salvaged by spraying herbicide ‘Glufosinate Ammonia’ (commercial name Basta) which is under patent regime of Bayer India Ltd.  So far dominant male sterility has never been used in crop plants because it adversely affects the reproduction of the species. There are multiple threats to Indian agriculture if the Bar-Barnase-Barstar hybrid technology is allowed via DMH-11 in food crops. If this technology is approved in mustard, there is no ground to avoid its use in other food crops. It can lead to many detrimental effects like indiscriminate use of herbicide by farmers which may create new problems of resistance in weeds. Spread of dominant male sterility will endanger the indigenous germ plasm including high yielding crop varieties of all crops. Farmers will be attracted to such hybrids which will lead to monopoly of this herbicide. Seed production will be directly licensed by the MNCs holding IPR for herbicide Basta leading to monopolization of seeds of many food crops by the MNC.  The herbicide is a known carcinogen and will affect farm workers and farmers. The entry of the carcinogen herbicide in food chain will affect both rural and urban population. The scientists also requested the PM to investigate and stop the release of HT transgenic hybrid to save Indian farmers from clutches of MNCs, avoid indiscriminate use of herbicide in near future, save indigenous high yielding varieties of crop plants and to save the Indian Brassica (mustard) germ plasm. In a nutshell While developing DMH-11, one of the Nagpur University mutant (EH2- early Hira 2 developed by Late Anil Khalatkar) was used by Pental in developing DMH-1 without giving any credit to the University Production of DMH-11 hybrid requires Basta herbicide spray which increases the production cost manifold There is virtually no need for a GM hybrid in mustard as the existing hybrids are much cheaper The biosafety data of trials has not been put in public domain and certain data has been fabricated