NEW DELHI: While the bus ridership in Delhi is falling, people in Bengaluru are asking for more buses and lower fare. 'Bus Bhagya Beku', a campaign run by several informal citizens' groups in Bengaluru, is asking for more public transport options to cut use of private modes. 

 Bengaluru already has 6,300 buses, compared to about 5,800 in the capital, serving little over half the population of Delhi. The city is now going to procure 3,000 more - 1600 by the   government and 1,400 on 'lease models' where private operators will get depot space. Karnataka, in fact, has the largest bus fleet among the states and consequently the lowest number of people per bus ratio. 
 
 "Their planning has kept buses as a key part of city building. Through the land monetisation policy, the government has kept a lot for depot space. Delhi has been facing hurdles in acquiring more buses because of depot space, Mumbai also didn't have depot space for years," Pawan Mulukutla, transport expert of   (WRI), said at the ConnectKaro conference on sustainable transport and urban development. 
 
 Bengaluru also has traffic and transit management centres (TTMC) where buses can be parked. The spare space can be rented out to offices and the money earned can be ploughed back into the bus service. "They have GPS tracking for buses. There is a control centre so that they can speak to drivers and check breakdowns at the earliest. They also have electronic ticketing and an app for commuters which I will not call the best but they are improving," he added.
 
 In Delhi, the DTC ridership has fallen from 43.47 lakh in 2013-14 to 35.37 in 2015-16. Experts said the tendering process for buses was complicated in Delhi and it had failed to innovate.
 
  from Bengaluru, who shared Bangalore's citizen movement story at the session on how to prioritise buses and connect a city efficiently, said, "The 6,300 buses are moving nearly half the city while the other half is dependent on nearly 60 lakh vehicles. If we have more buses, we won't need these private vehicles. It will address traffic congestion too." 
 
 Bengaluru has a segregated bus service system where premium and regular buses cater to all categories of commuters. "They have made big reforms over a period of time. They have also rationalised routes," said  , executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment. Experts also suggested that a cess be imposed on fuel to make money for state transport undertakings. 
 
