COIMBATORE: Every second student who took the Class XII state board examination in 2017 belonged to one of the science streams. While science subjects continue to be popular with students entering higher secondary wing this year, schools say there is an increasing interest for commerce and arts as well.

 The range of employment opportunities and increasing awareness about career options in the field of arts are the reasons for this shift, they say.   Private Schools Association president   said she had been witnessing this trend since the last two years.
 
 “Those students who are in dilemma to choose the second group -mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology -are now looking at arts and commerce as an option.Only those students who are interested in taking up NEET or agriculture choose the second group,“ she said.
 
 Academicians feel the increasing awareness about the avenues has made students choose commerce group in Class XI. “Even today some parents push their children to choose either first or second group that comprises mathematics and science. But with growing awareness, I have seen many parents allowing their children to opt for the group of their interest,“ said Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Schools Headmasters' Association state president  .
 
 The growing need for chartered accountants, company secretaries and other professionals is why many choose commerce. “One can pursue  , company secretaryship, CA, law, media studies, literature, fashion designing and others. There are also many job opportunities in these fields today,“ said educationist J P Gandhi.
 
 Another factor is affordability. “A student of the science group takes up private tuitions for school syllabus and coaching for exams like JEE and NEET. The fee for such private coaching is as high as Rs 1.5lakh per year,“ said Gandhi.
 
 Besides top colleges, candidates also have opportunities in private deemed universities. “We started the faculty of science and humanities with 25 students about 10 years ago. Today, there are 4,000 students. The course duration is three years and employment opportunities are high (98%),“ said the director of faculty of science and humanities,  , R Balasubramaniam. “The highest salary package for a commerce graduate is around `9 lakh per annum,“ he added.
 
