AHMEDABAD: Kheda police on Friday arrested a 22-year-old youth from Nadiad on Friday in connection with   Two teenagers have also been apprehended as co-accused in the case.

 According to Nadiad police, Tanya Patel, 7, lived with her grandmother Kusumben at Lakshya Duplex near Santram temple. Her parents Amit and Gayatri Patel are living in the UK for past few years. Tanya was playing outside on September 18 night when there was a power outage. When the power supply was restored at about 8pm after 10 minutes, Tayna could not be seen. Soon after, police were informed about the disappearance. 
 
  
  Police registered a case of abduction and started probe. Tanya’s body was found from near Anklav from Mahi river. Her identity was established after a post-mortem on Friday. 
 
 Maninder Singh Pawar, SP, Kheda, said that  , 22, living next door in Lakshya Duplex, has been arrested for the abduction and murder. 
 
 “He was constantly with police after the incident, helping track the girl. However, his interest raised suspicion. We conducted a background check when we got to know that Meet was caught earlier in an offence. He was detained and questioned thoroughly. Two other suspects of below 18 years of age were also questioned after which we pieced together the incident,” said Pawar.
 
 Investigators said that Kusumben had a tendency to speak loudly about the monetary transactions. Meet heard her receiving a sum and hatched a plan to abduct Tanya for ransom as he had a sum to pay towards his debt. The power outage provided him a perfect opportunity as he called unsuspecting Tanya towards a car and abducted her. Two others joined him soon after as Tanya was hit on back of her head. She lay unconscious as she was thrown off the bridge from Vasad.
 
 “She was killed off as she could have identified Meet as her abductor. The original plan was to call Kusumben for ransom a couple of days after abduction but when police started probe the same night with dog squad, mounted police, drone and a large team, Meet grew cold feet. The locals are in shock as Tanya used to frequent Meet’s residence to watch TV and Meet’s parents were constantly by the Kusumben’s side, providing her support,” said a Nadiad police official. 
 
 
