In Trilokpuri, which sees sporadic incidents of violence, two communities don’t want to live next to each other. In Hasanpur, a plot of land is proving to be a hurdle. 

 Roshan (name changed), a resident of Block 18 in Trilokpuri, is happy that Metro is coming to the area. But while Metro may be welcome, neighbours living in Block 15 aren’t. "It would be better if they were shifted elsewhere. Why seek trouble," he says even as a bunch of boys sitting with him echo this sentiment.
 
 In Trilokpuri, progress in the form of Delhi Metro is fighting a battle against communal feelings as well as claims of environmental damage. One hundred and eight houses in Block 15 are to be razed to make way for the viaduct of the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor that is part of Phase III. The pillars and track will come up in the area for which residents are being relocated to alternative accommodation to be built by   (DMRC). The problem is that neighbours at that alternative site — located opposite blocks 16, 17 and 18 — are none too happy about the move.
 
 Block 15, which is home to around 400 families, is predominantly Muslim, whereas blocks 16, 17 and 18 are mostly Hindu. In an area where communal tension has led to riots and sporadic incidents of violence in the past, the two communities are not eager to live next to each other, preferring to stick to their own.
 
 It’s a fact acknowledged by residents of Block 15 as well. "But we don’t want to be shifted to a site too far from here...we have put in our lives’ earnings into these houses and our work is here. I refuse to move to another part of Delhi," says Shaheen Begum, an octogenarian who lives with her son and his family in Block 15. Theirs is one of the families that have agreed to shift to the alternative accommodation.
 
 However, while Delhi Metro may have started work on building 354 units or houses to resettle the residents of Block 15 — under police protection — another spanner has been put in the works. A group of residents has gone to court alleging the alternative site is a green area, so houses cannot be built there. Raj Kumar, a resident of Block 18, says the "green area" has been developed by the local residents who lifted garbage from there and planted saplings.
 
 Delhi Metro doesn’t agree. DMRC spokesman Anuj Dayal says: "The land use is part residential and part recreational. This can be changed to residential by DDA, which has agreed to the same." The matter has now gone to Delhi high court, with the next hearing scheduled for May this year.
 
 The objections, however, go beyond the need to save a "park". Even a casual conversation with any resident in the area makes that amply clear. Kumar is candid when he cites the history of Trilokpuri, echoing Roshan, and observes: "It’s best not to take a chance. Even a small incident can lead to violence flaring up in Trilokpuri."
 
 Caught in this is a 286-metre long stretch of Metro’s Line 7, work on which is yet to start. "We are continuing with construction of accommodation in the part of the land that is not in dispute. For the others (families), we are now exploring the option of providing compensation," says Dayal.
 
 Only a few kilometres away, in Hasanpur near Patparganj, another plot of land is proving to be a hurdle. Two buildings, which were earlier believed to be with DDA, have now been confirmed as private properties. "Three months ago, DDA gave us permission to negotiate directly with the owners of the two buildings for purchase of the land," said Dayal. Delhi Metro is now hoping that negotiations will bear fruit and work on building a 100-metre viaduct between   depot and Anand Vihar will kick off.
 
 Without either of these crucial sections, the corridor between Lajpat Nagar and Shiv Vihar is unlikely to be ready this year, Delhi Metro chief Mangu Singh toldTOI. This will deny   sorely needed public transport that will ease congestion and make commuting easy.
 
 
