KOLHAPUR: Probably for the first time in   of Maharashtra, a member of   is protesting against his own government. 

 Minister of state for agriculture and marketing   on Thursday joined the stir in Kolhapur against the Devendra Fadnavis government demanding loan waiver to farmers, higher price for cane crop and implementation of the Swaminathan committee recommendations.
 
 The   was organised by Khot’s party and BJP ally Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana headed by MP Raju Shetti. While Shetti has been expressing his displeasure against Khot for siding with the government and playing to the CM’s tune, political circles were also abuzz that Khot might join the BJP. 
 
 However, Khot made it clear that he was minister because of the Sanghatana and would be part of all its agitations. The Sanghatana plans a long march from Pune to Mumbai from May 22 to 30 to give a push to its demands. 
 
 Speaking at the rally, Khot said, “I am always with the party and its programmes. I am representing the party in the state government and have always worked for the betterment of the farmers.”
 
 Refraining from speaking against the state government or mentioning the loan waiver, Khot spoke about the work done by the state government for the “betterment of the farmers” and said he would do his best for the latter as long as he represented his party in the government.
 
 While the Shiv Sena is already upping the ante against the government, the Sanghatana locking horns with the Fadnavis government is a major political development. Opposition party leaders are already criss-crossing the state demanding a loan waiver for the farmers.
 
 Addressing the rally in Kolhapur, Shetti gave the state government a May 30 deadline to waive off all farmer loans. He warned that the supply of vegetables and milk to Mumbai would be stopped after the deadline if the government failed to act on his party’s demands. 
 
 Before addressing the rally, Shetti presented a memorandum of demands to district collector   
 
