AHMEDABAD: A police force is supposed to be secular. However, construction of   within city police lines paints a different picture. These places of worship have been constructed by cops themselves with crowd funding in certain cases, without taking permission from higher authorities.

 But top officials have a different take on the matter. Talking to Mirror, Ahmedabad Police Commissioner A K Singh said that as there were no specific complaints against these temples or other religious places in the police lines, there was no need for action against anyone. He also said that since religious sentiments of many people are connected to it, there is no need of any suo motu action.
 
 
 
 
 Mirror visited eight police lines, or government accommodation for cops, in Ahmedabad and found that some of them have more than two temples or dargahs. The temples have priests for their upkeep and host religious functions on a regular basis. All the places of worship have loudspeakers to play daily prayers.
 
 For instance, there are two big temples in Ellis bridge police line that are regularly thronged by Hindu saints during religious festivals.Similarly, Ghatlodia police line has a large Shiva temple with an adjoining accommodation for the priest.
 
 Makarba police line, considered to be the best in terms of facilities, has a Durga temple that was built in 2011 via crowd funding besides donations from 160 resident families of police officials. The temple is also popular among the locality's nonpolice residents who donated generously for its construction. Gaekwad Haveli police line is unique for having two temples and dargahs each while Ranip police line has a temple and a dargah.
 
 
 
 Joint Commissioner of Police (headquarters)  , who overlooks construction in police lines, commented any cement construction in police line needs prior permission.All the places of worship in city police lines have been built without permission. When asked why such structures are allowed to be constructed and no action taken, he said: “As the matter concerns faith of the people living in police lines, we have taken a soft stand. As such no permission has been given in the past three years after I took charge.“
 
 Savani had recently removed a small temple constructed in the Police Headquarters to make way for construction of a road.
 
 A top police official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It is wrong to blame cops living in the police lines, as most of them are from lower strata of the society. They depend on their faith to survive and face the odds life throws at them. Also, it cannot be termed an encroachment as nobody is benefiting out of it.“
 
 
 
 
 However, the issue does point at lack of secularism in the police force.Talking to Mirror, retired IPS officer R B   said construction of religious places in the police lines amounts to failure of secularism in the police force. “One can have his or her own temple in the house but construction of religious establishments on the campus is against secularism,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Some of the cops also feel uncomfortable about it. Allowing religious places of worship in police lines is one thing and creating an environment of inclusiveness is another. At cost of one, the other gets compromised. A Muslim cop, on condition of anonymity, said: “When I was applying for a house in police line, I ensured that I was not allotted house in a police line with big temples.“
 
 When prodded further, the cop said he has nothing against his Hindu colleagues or their religion but he would have felt alienated had he been allotted a house in the police line with a well-established temple.
 
 A Hindu cop posted in Sola police station said: “I too do not like the construction of temples in police lines, but since everyone wants a temple, I decided to stay away from any controversy. I strongly feel that neither temples nor dargahs should be allowed inside police residential colonies.“
 
  constructs residential units for the police department but it does not have the jurisdiction over illegal constructions. “We take up the project of constructing any new building only after land is transferred in the name of the police head of city or district,“ managing director, GSPHC, Geetha Johri told Mirror.She clarified that overlooking illegal construction like temples and dargahs does not fall under her purview.
 
 There are 5,640 police houses in the city out of which 5,392 are 1BHK (B-category) and 225 2BHK (C-category) houses. There are 11 D-category and 12 E-category houses for allotment to Police Inspector and Deputy Superintendent category police officials respectively.
 
