JAIPUR: In amended orders issued on March 24, the state   department announced that the process of distributing rations through the manual register would be done away with. Earlier, a manual register was maintained alongside the electronic system, to allow those whose biometric details could not be verified to access rations even in case of failure of the Point of Sale (PoS) machine.

 In August last year, the department announced that ration distribution would be through the PoS machine starting September. In case of failure of the PoS machine to authenticate biometrics, the Aadhaar could still be used after a one-time password was generated and sent to the mobile phone of the beneficiary. This one-time password system is being done away with, starting April 1.
 
 Those families that do not possess a mobile phone and have problems with authentication of the biometric details will need to have special provision made for them on the e-PoS software. This software will no longer allow dealers to make stock entries of their own. In case alternative arrangements are made, the district civil supplies officer will have to enter these into the system on that very day.
 
 Principal secretary Subodh Agarwal of the food and   said, “Of the 99 lakh beneficiaries, just about two lakh did not have Aadhaar. However, we found that about 10% of people were lifting rations using provisions meant for those with  . We also found that the one-time password system was being misused. To reduce misuse, we have made amendments in our order. Those who do not possess Aadhaar will not be denied rations – the system only requires the sub-divisional magistrate to authenticate such cases.”
 
 Economist Reetika Khera, who has been studying exclusion from food security in the state, said, “Contrary to the claims of its promoters, Aadhaar has become an exclusion-enhancing technology. Aadhaar-based biometric authentication (ABBA) is fragile technology vulnerable to multiple failures. The only useful purpose it could serve is to deduplicate, for which it is required only once, not each month. People will suffer twice over -- those with biometric issues will drop out of the system. Those for whom   works will continue to suffer quantity fraud even after ABBA -- nothing in this technology stops the dealer from forcing people to authenticate for 25kg, but giving only 20kg.”
 
 The state government, in a letter to the editor of Indian Express last month, refuting the claim of an article that 38% of beneficiaries had trouble matching fingerprints on the system, said percentage of transactions without Aadhaar stood at 15%.
 
