The upcoming municipal elections have given   fever to  . When the entire city is engaging into debates and speculations of what will happen next, how can college campuses remain untouched by it? However, the collegians have gone a step further than just speculations by taking initiative to spread awareness among their counterparts and citizens in general.

  In this   era, everyone is trying to woo the first time voters. Some gave them free WiFi while others tried to lure them with free SIM cards. On the other hand, civic administration and NGOs are appealing youngsters to vote, and vote wisely. “Telling youngsters to vote is not enough. They should also know what local body election stands for,” says Prof Vrinda Bhargave, head of the journalism department of  . “Local bodies are the foundation of democracy. Therefore, these elections are as important as state and union elections, if not more. But in the past few years I have observed that students are ignorant about this process. We teach political science to our students but theory is useless they understand the complete process in practical. The first time voters might go and vote enthusiastically, but do they really know the difference between politics and polity?” she asks.
 
  
 
 
  The students are no behind when it comes to spread political awareness. “I am a first time voter and frankly I lacked wholesome knowledge of political process. Today I know that there is much more into election than just casting our vote. I know this because someone explained this to me, and now it’s my turn to make my friends wiser,” says Bhoomi Patel, a second year student of journalism.
 
  
 
 
  Education ministry has instructed all the   in state, especially, where municipal corporation elections are scheduled, to regularly remind students to vote in the local body election. Therefore, city college administrations are giving daily dose of ‘vote wisely’ to their student. “Now-a-days every college programme, formal or informal, starts with message of ‘be responsible citizen and vote’. Yes, sometimes it gets too much but I think it’s important. Because, to be honest, Nashik youngsters are not that proactive when it comes to voting. They need a constant reminder,” says Shridhar Kasar, an electronics student.
 
 
