Siridao: Never the ones to miss an opportunity, several Goans grabbed the mandatory holiday granted by the government in lieu of the state assembly elections and decided to make the most of it by taking some time out with their loved ones.

 While most of the plans were impromptu, there were quite a few Goemkars who gave in to the temptation to skip the elections and plan elaborate trips out of the state.
 
 “Instead of going partying in the evening, my friend, Craig, and I decided to go for a swim to Velsao beach early in the morning. We then returned home and went to cast our vote,” Porvorim-based Lyndon Pinto said.
 
 But not all Goans pre-planned their outings to the beach and many found themselves on Goa’s sandy shores by chance.
 
 “Our father was the only one who went to vote early morning. We went to vote in the afternoon and then, on an impulse, decided to visit the beach,” said Jane D’Souza, who came with her sister, Gayle, and their mother to celebrate Gayle’s birthday.
 
 Not every family found the need to vote, though. For a Mapusa-based extended family, the Saturday holiday proffered a rare chance for school-going children and private sector employees to spend a day together.
 
 Seemingly uninterested in the electoral process, the family planned its holiday two weeks in advance and, on February 4, woke up in the wee hours to set on a road trip for Coorg.
 
 The Bhosle brothers from Old Goa used the holiday to give their pet Doberman a good run on the beach.
 
 However, not all excursions were with family members. Several love-struck couples also took advantage of the holiday to rekindle their veiled romances. 
 
 “In the private sector we work on Saturdays, too, so why forego a chance to go out? We voted, then went for lunch, and then sneaked out,” said a Porvorim lad, who was out on a clandestine trip with his girlfriend.
 
 There were quite a few Goans who also gave in to the temptation to skip the elections and plan elaborate trips out of the state
 
 
