JALANDHAR:   has alleged that the   (SOP) of guarding the EVMs was not being followed in Jalandhar and there appeared   in the district. The party alleged that middle circle of the three-tier security around strong rooms was being breached regularly at several places in the district. The party has already moved the Election Commission demanding removal of the returning officer of Gill constituency in Ludhiana, claiming that he entered the strong room. 

 Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, AAP leader H S Phoolka, while flanked by party candidates from different constituencies of Jalandhar district, said that according to SOPs there should be three impenetrable security rings around each strong room containing EVMs at the storage campus.
 
 Explaining their objections, he said, “Outer ring is of local police while the middle is guarded by paramilitary force and local police and innermost entirely of the paramilitary forces. Inside this middle perimeter only the returning officer (RO), a candidate his authorized person can go. In inner perimeter none can go. SOP also states that a water proof tent should be put up at the campus where representative of candidates could stay but none had been provided,” he said.
 
 Talking about different storage campuses, he said that in a strong room in a Patwarkhana building people were crossing even the middle ring as the offices there were operational. “In Phillaur, the strong room is in Patwari School and here the regular office was also working inside the middle ring and even public was going there. Motorcycles were also parked just outside the wall of the strong room. In Shahkot and Kartarpur strong rooms just were adjacent to other offices where people were inside the middle ring. In Jalandhar West, classes are being held just adjacent to the strong room,” he said.
 
 “During our visit, CRPF personnel told that they had never seen such laxity as nowhere civilians were allowed in the building having strong room,” Phoolka claimed.
 
 He said that it appeared that casual approach was adapted while selecting storage campuses and now these appeared vulnerable.
 
 However, Jalandhar district electoral officer K K Yadav refuted the party’s charges. “SOPs are being followed and passes have been issued to government staff where they were working in the same building,” he said. He said that he again taken a round of the storage campus on Tuesday evening and everything was in place just as the rules demanded.
 
 
