BENGALURU: State   president  's accusations that RSS functionary   is stoking dissidence against him and nurturing ambitions of becoming chief minister, have raised debate in political circles whether the latter can become a   of Karnataka.

 With the BJP leadership setting a precedent with   as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, and Devendra Fadnavis in Maharashtra, preferring them over mass leaders and old horses, party insiders feel this may have raised Santhosh's hopes.
 
 Santhosh, currently BJP's national joint organizing secretary, is accused by Yeddyurappa as the brain behind legislative council opposition leader K S Eshwarappa's rebellion. BJP leaders, especially those identified with Eshwarappa's camp, vouch that national leaders could prefer Santhosh over Yeddyurappa if the party wins by a comfortable margin, while leaders in Yeddyurappa's camp dismissed it as “utter nonsense“ and “impractical“.
 
 But the odds against Santhosh as CM candidate outweigh the possibilities of him becoming one. First, Aditya Nath, 44, is a five-time MP who made his   debut at the age of 26. By contrast, Santhosh has been a liaison man between the RSS and BJP, and is not seen interacting with the public.
 
 When it comes to caste dynamics, Santhosh is a Brahmin, a 3% denomination in Karnataka, while Aditya Nath, a temple priest, is a Thakur. Besides, Yogi is a powerful orator and was most sought after during the poll campaign in UP. Yeddyurappa has a good following among Lingayats, the community he hails from.
 
 
 
 
 Mysuru: The turmoil in the party notwithstanding, BJP leaders said that there is no change in the plans to host the state executive meeting in the city later this week.
 
 The two-day meeting, scheduled for May 6 and 7, will be held as planned, the party's city unit chief Dr B H Manjunath said. “ There are minor differences between the leaders which will be ironed out.The meeting to discuss strategies for 2018 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha elections will go on,“ he said.
 
