PATNA: All of 18 years, Seema (name changed) hadn’t ever thought she would see such an ugly face of life.

 A first-year graduation student, Seema’s ordeal began after she left her house with friend Sarita (name changed) on December 25 to attend  , the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of of Guru Gobind Singh. 
 
 “I don’t remember that I reached the celebration venue. I remember finding self in a train. I looked out of the window and read Mughalsarai Junction written on a yellow display board,” the girl told this reporter on Saturday after being rescued in a joint operation by UP and Bihar police.
 
 Police have arrested one Asma Khatoon, her daughter Priya alias Rizwana and son-in-law Birendra Singh of Patna City in connection with the case.
 
 According to the girl, she was sold off at three different places in three months with her first buyer being Birendra’s brother-in-law at Mughalsarai. The duo took her to Agra where she was sold to someone who sold her to a family at Firozabad.
 
 “I was forced to marry two of the five brothers of the Firozabad family – one in 40s, the other in 30s. They sexually abused me before I was taken to back to Agra,” she recalled.
 
 Seema and Sarita had earlier been held captive in Agra for two days. Sarita was later taken away by Birendra. Seema’s queries about Sarita would provoke Singh to assault her.
 
 “I heard him talking over the phone that he had sold Sarita for Rs 35,000. Once he told me he had sold or murdered 50-odd girls and if I didn’t stop asking him about Sarita, I would meet the same fate,” said Seema. 
 
 Seema’s mother is a relieved woman now, but she shivers while recalling those days when her daughter disappeared. “The other day I received a call from my daughter, made from the the phone of one of her captors. She gave her location as somewhere in Agra. I immediately informed police though it took us six days to trace her,” said the mother.
 
 Police do not believe Seema’s story in toto. They, however, suspect Sarita has been probably murdered. “Seema says she is 18 but she is not less than 20 years old. The two girls went with the accused willingly. Seema was in touch with her mother, but she never earlier asked to be rescued. We are trying to link all the threads,” said City SP (east) Dhurat Sayali Sablaram. 
 
 According to social activist Nivedita Shakeel, at least 22 girls have gone missing from Patna City areas in the last seven to eight years. “I personally know one girl who went missing in a similar way. Instead of doubting the girl’s version, police should investigate the case properly,” said Nivedita. 
 
 
