GAYA: Quizzing Tausif Khan, one of the 95 accused of July 26, 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts case, is proving to be a challenging job for the police. Being shrewd and heavily indoctrinated radical, Tausif appears to have covered his tracks intelligently. The state police officers are apparently less experienced in eliciting information from the terror suspect.
 
  Though   was also arrested by the Bihar police in 2013, he was instantly handed over to the central agencies and state police officers could not get much chance to question him and get a first-hand insight into the mental make of people like  .
  
  Sources said the   has already chargesheeted Tausif and they now only require to produce him in court. As such, the Gujarat ATS is not very helpful in framing questionnaire, leaving the  .
  
  Time too is running out for case investigators as they have been given only four days and getting further remand may not be that easy, as Gujarat ATS would seek Tausif's transit remand to produce him in the Ahmedabad court in connection with the serial blasts in which 56 people were killed and at least 200 injured. Tausif had allegedly planted bomb in an Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (ATMS) bus during peak traffic period.
  
  Police officers who have interrogated Tausif remain tightlipped. However, sources say Tausif has adopted the strategy to tire out his interrogators. “He has so far been very economic with words and makes delayed responses to questions and causes confusion through vague and misleading responses. On account of Tausif's poor credibility, the investigators have to cross check even minor information provided by the apparently seasoned accused,” said a source.
  
  Information so far gathered by the cops suggest that Tausif has been mainly involved in radicalising young men. “No information about his access to weapons or explosives has so far come up,” a source added.
  
  More than interaction, the cops now focus on the contents of the two pen drives recovered from his possession and the desktop used by Tausif at the cyber cafe. Hard disk of the desktop used by Tausif has been seized by the police.
  
  Sources said the Madhya Pradesh ATS would also come to Gaya to interrogate Tausif. Mujib Sheikh, one of Tausif’s associates, was killed in an encounter with the Madhya Pradesh Police near Bhopal last year.
  
    said the investigation was proceeding in the right direction.
