TRICHY: The swelling crowd of students protesting the   for the second consecutive day on Thursday expressed disappointment at the non-committal of Prime Minister   in promulgating an ordinance for the cause. Many threatened to face the issue politically 
saying the students' uprising would reflect in the elections as well.
 
 The entire stretch of Link Road connecting   in the city was dotted with more than 8,000 students from various colleges in the district. Trichy city police had to divert traffic on the road for the second day. The highly-charged students claimed that their protests in support of jallikattu would "ignite a revolution" in the upcoming elections as well.
 
 "First, we thank the social media for bringing the students united for jallikattu. We have taken up the issue to uphold the cultural identity of Tamil people. Even if we succeed in revoking the ban, we will ensure this fire brings about a change in politics," said S Franklin, a third year BE student of a Chennai-based college.
 
 The day saw much cooperation between the police and the protesting students as on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order) A Mylvaganan assured the students of full cooperation from the police for their non-violence protest. "We respect the silent protest of the students for jallikattu. But you should not disturb the public in anyway. The police will give protection to you," Mylvaganan told the crowd. An attempt by Trichy law college students to block the road around MGR roundabout triggered tension with police asking them to disperse and join the students sitting on the Link Road. After a verbal duel, they joined the rest.
 
 When the news about the meeting between Chief Minister   and Prime Minister Narendra Modi making no headway was out, the students showed their frustration but stood firm on their demand for ordinance to conduct the bull-taming event. "If the ban on jallikattu is not revoked, it will have a negative impact on the governments," claimed Deepan, a student.
 
