UDUPI: Sameer Hashmi, BBC journalist and alumnus of the  , said, “Social media platforms have proved they’re very effective tools. With the help of new apps, it has simplified journalism and media. As the media’s objectives are to inform, analyze and comment,   provides a single platform for all three.” He was talking to students on ‘Journalism in the age of   and Social Media’ in Manipal on Thursday. 

 He was in Manipal as part of the communication fest, Article 19, which will be held over four days. He said, “Political leaders across the globe use social media platforms to build a successful career and the best example is Trump’s victory in the US presidential election even though 98 % of media organisations had predicted a victory for Hillary Clinton. Trump had his own platform to interact with the public. His tweets and statements attracted the public and they wanted change, which resulted in his victory.”
 
 He added, “In India, many leaders, including Prime Minister  , are interacting with the public using social media platforms. This is a big threat to old media. The current system denies journalists accessing government organizations. Now, to reach rural India, the PM uses channels like DD National and AIR. And to reach the urban masses, he prefers tweets, FB video posts and other social media links to convey his message. They don’t need the old media reach to their constituencies. Social media is a challenge to traditional media.”
 
 He said, “A journalist should go to the root of a problem. When issues are floating on the surface, the real cause can be found at the root. Media should go there to address any issue, it’s is the only key. Another challenge that traditional media faces today is corporate interference. Big companies have tie-ups with others and restrict journalists from writing on some stories. Digital media can fill this gap. Though there is polarization in media, news cannot be censored as the competition is intense. India has about 121 TV channels and 60,000 registered newspapers. If one doesn’t do a story, another will do it.”
 
 Here too digital media plays a huge role. “When a sensational story is ignored by traditional media, it goes viral on social media and can have a huge impact. For instance, when the Syrian boy's lifeless body was found on the beach, the image went viral and people sat up and took note of the war. It was the biggest story of social media in 2016 -- that’s the power of social media. However, propaganda and fake stories are challenges in social media,” he said.
 
 The journalist should understand that cities alone are not the soul of India; it also includes rural folk. Farmer suicides get ignored in media. This attitude should change. Also, 30% of India is still below the poverty line; we cannot ignore it. Journalists should work on it.”
 
