NAGPUR: Controversy has erupted over illicit felling of 996 small and big teak trees on the farm land of former MLC and Congress leader   in  , about 50 km from here.

 Though these schedule trees have been felled on private land on  , no mandatory permission was taken under the Maharashtra Felling of Trees (Regulation) Act, 1964, from the range forest officer (RFO), who is also the tree officer to allow felling of teak trees.
 
 Talking to TOI, Hussain flatly denied that trees were felled on his farm. “These were felled by another person whose farm is just besides my 150 acre agriculture land. I had felled trees on my farm with prior permission in 2014,” Hussain said.
 
 However, even as the large-scale felling is mired in controversy, round officer SR Sirsam has registered an primary offence report (POR) offence against Bipin Sawaliya for illicit felling.
 
 Interestingly, Sawaliya works as a manager (diwanji) for Hussain for last many years and also looks after Congress leader’s farm.
 
 Sawaliya admitted to knowing Hussain and said the trees were felled last week in his farm in Borda and not in Satrapur where ex-MLC’s farm is located side by. “I agree that permission was not taken to fell trees. I have also submitted saat-bara (7/12) of the land where trees were felled.”
 
 However, Sirsam says trees were felled in the farm in Borda and the farm still belongs to Hadru Nisar, Rangrao Gharat and Jagan Gharat from whom Sawaliya bought it. Sirsam doesn’t know as to who purchased the land from them.
 
 “He (Sawaliya) has submitted documents to revenue department to get the farm registered in his name,” Sirsam said.
 
 However, sources said the land has been cleared of trees to pave way for crop extension orchard and offence has allegedly been registered against Sawaliya ostensibly to keep former MLC out of picture. “The forest department surveyor should visit the spot for factual report,” a source said.
 
 On the contrary, Sirsam says the trees were felled in survey number 157 & 154 and Hussain’s farm is situated in survey number 156. Hence, there is no question of any manipulations.
 
 Ramtek RFO SD Khobragade says, “Now that trees have already been felled, we will compound the case based on round officer’s report by imposing fine as per rules and quantity and quality of teak.” Interestingly, the RFO has not yet visited the spot for verification.
 
