MUMBAI: A differently-abled resident doctor of   was slapped and thrown on the ground allegedly by the relatives of a 60-year-old woman soon after they were informed of her demise late on Saturday, making it the third instance of assault on a doctor in the state in a week. Nearly 500 resident doctors at the BMC-run hospital stopped work almost immediately, while their counterparts at Parel's KEM and Mumbai Central's BYL Nair hospitals are likely to join the  . The incident has added fuel to the simmering fire among the medical fraternity over the alarming regularity of attacks on doctors and medical establishments. 

 The Sion assault occurred around 10.30pm on Saturday, when Dr  , a first year PG student of medicine, broke the news of Rekha Ghavari's death to her kin. According to the hospital sources, the patient, suffering from chronic kidney disease, was brought to the hospital with complaints of fluid retention the previous night. The Chembur resident had also undergone dialysis on Saturday morning. But her condition started to deteriorate in the evening. She succumbed at 10.05pm on Saturday. The patient's family said they were not in a position to comment on the incident just yet.
 
 A resident doctor told TOI that soon after Dr Kumar broke the news to a relative, he was slapped on the face. "The impact threw him on the floor," said the doctor. "Dr Kumar's right leg is afflicted by poliomyelitis." By then security guards reached ward 20 and stopped the assault. As word spread across the campus, the doctors left their wards and gathered outside till the police were summoned.
 
 The doctors shot off a letter to the hospital's dean, Dr Suleman Merchant, stating that the patient's case was of chronic kidney disease and she was brought with fluid overload. They alleged that the incident occurred despite the presence of a hospital security guard. "The patient's demise upset the relatives, even though they were explained about her bad prognosis. She had undergone treatment in the hospital less than a month ago, but the family decided to take her home against medical advice," a doctor said.
 
  said an FIR has been lodged against the accused and three people have been arrested. "Though the security guards intervened at the right time and stopped the matter from escalating, there is mental trauma nevertheless. Students don't come here to get beaten up. We have forthrightly decided to bring about certain changes in protocols," he said. 
 
