GHAZIABAD: A city-based activist, who had petitioned the National Human Rights Commission ( ) over the death of 13 people in a tragic fire accident in Shahid Nagar in November last year, has allegedly been issued death threats by certain people. The activist, Rajiv  , who was threatened with dire consequences by three people in his Shahid Nagar office on January 2, has submitted a complaint in this regard at the Sahibabad police station.

 “The men told me to refrain from pursuing the case, or be ready with dire consequences for me and my family,” said Sharma, adding, “I’ve informed the district magistrate and the Ghaziabad police chief about the incident. I also tweeted to the PMO on Wednesday that no action is being taken by police, despite a complaint filed on January 3, and demanding protection for my family. So far, only a local intelligence unit official of Ghaziabad police has conducted an inquiry about the incident.”
 
 Sharma had submitted a petition with NHRC on November 15, demanding compensation of Rs 10 lakh each for the kin of the deceased, as well as for those who were injured in the Shahid Nagar blaze. He had also demanded the sealing of illegal factories operating in Shahid Nagar, and action against government officials, whose collusion gave cover to the owners of these units to run without consent from competent authorities. Earlier in 2010, he had filed a public interest litigation in Allahabad high court against the illegal factories of Shahid Nagar and other nearby areas. 
 
 On the basis of his recent complaint, NHRC issued a notice to the DM and SSP of Ghaziabad, to submit a report by January 23, on action taken against the aforesaid illegal units. A team, led by ADM (city) Preeti Jaiswal, had subsequently sealed over a dozen illegal factories in a drive on December 29.
 
 No FIR has been registered in the matter yet. However, when contacted, SSP   told TOI a case will be registered and necessary action taken to ensure Sharma’s safety and security. “The local police station will be asked to probe the activist’s complaint, and accordingly, register a case. Sharma’s family will be provided security if we find it necessary. Instructions will be given to track the people who have allegedly threatened him,” said SSP Kumar.
 
 
