NASHIK: A daily commuter's nightmare has come true as the   (MSRTC) has withdrawn buses on some routes permanently. 

 While the transport utility officials claim that they have stopped only the loss-making ferries; daily commuters are in deep trouble as the buses are now making fewer trips.
 
 "The MSRTC has stopped about 45 schedules after receiving a poor response. We have no option but to stop these services as they were adding losses. But, the cut schedule is meticulously planned so that not many commuters are affected," said controller of Deolali bus station, Devidas Bhangre. 
 
 Currently, the transport utility has decided to stop 34 out of 150 ferries from Deolali to  . "Schedules of city buses are cut down during vacations as schools and colleges are closed during the period. Last year too, the MSRTC cut down 21 schedules. But, we restored the services once the schools reopen, which will not happen this year," said Bhangre. 
 
 MSRTC is facing a financial loss of Rs 10 per km for the bus it runs in Nashik city, while it spends only Rs 2 on an average per km bus in the other areas.
 
 Daily commuters are most disappointed with the situation they will have to face after schools and colleges re-open in June. "The vacations will get over in June and the number of commuters will increase. This will worsen the situation. Especially pass-holders will suffer a lot. The route joining Nashik Road railway station to the city remains busy when daily trains from Mumbai like Tapovan, Bhusawal Express, Godavari and   arrive. Hundreds of Nashikites coming to the city in these trains are missing the buses. They have to resort to other modes of transport like autos and cabs. But, they cost almost double than the MSRTC bus," said a pass holder, Dipal Sinkar. 
 
 Some commuters are also complaining that the autorickshaw drivers have started asking for more money after realizing that the number of buses have gone down. A bus journey from Nashik Road to Indira Nagar which costs Rs 14 is now charged for Rs 50 by autorickshaw drivers. 
 
 Residents of villages adjacent to Nashik are also troubled by these bus schedules. Earlier, they used to get a city bus from their own village but now, they have to wait for the rural bus which is crowded and slow. 
 
 Controller of the Bhagur bus station, S A Ghuge said that villagers of Rahuri, Donwade, and Lahavit villages are facing inconvenience due to this. "There are 32 villages adjacent to Deolali and Bhagur. The residents of some of these villages will have to wait for the rural bus as the city buses have stopped plying through these routes," he said.
 
