Patna: Tension in the Grand Alliance refused to die down on Wednesday after what appeared to be a ceasefire between JD(U) and RJD following a closed-door meeting between CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday evening.

 Following his meeting with RJD chief Lalu Prasad in the morning, former minister Shivanand Tiwari said the crisis in the Grand Alliance is over. But soon after JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok’s statement that his party still demands a detailed explanation from Tejashwi on the CBI charges against him, Tiwari told TOI, “Aisa lagta hai ki inhone (Nitish) BJP se deal kar liya hai. Paanch minute bhi kursi se alag nahi reh sakte (it seems he has struck a deal with BJP. He cannot stay away from his chair even for five minutes).”
 
 Alok also told TOI: “We are neither aware nor concerned about what transpired between Nitish ji and Tejashwi on Tuesday as it was an official meeting. But as a party, JD(U) is firm on its demand for an explanation from Tejashwi on the corruption charges against him to maintain and enhance the image of Grand Alliance. Zero tolerance on corruption is a part of our common minimum programme.”
 
 Reacting to Alok’s statement, Tiwari said enough explanations have been given by the Lalu family and it’s now Nitish’s turn to explain to the people of Bihar whether he has made a “deal” with the BJP.
 
 “Is he (Nitish) the contractor of Bihar that people should give all types of explanation to him? Why is he mum on the talks of ‘helping hand’ being extended by BJP to him ever since the turmoil in the alliance started? The BJP says it would not allow the Nitish government to fall in case RJD comes out of the alliance. Nitish has not spoken on this issue even once and it appears that he has made a deal with BJP,” Tiwari said.
 
 Sources said Tejashwi told Nitish during their meeting in the CM’s chamber on Tuesday that he would not resign and took legal recourse on corruption charges levelled against him in the FIR lodged by the CBI on July 5 in the ‘land-for-railway hotels’ case of the time when his father Lalu Prasad was the rail minister.
 
 RJD sources also said Tejashwi cited the examples of Aditya Nath Yogi, Virbhadra Singh and Raghubar Das, who were still the chief minister of their respective states despite facing criminal charges.
 
 But JD(U) sources said Nitish was not satisfied with Tejashwi’s explanation and told him that the CBI had substantial evidence against him in the case. The CM is also believed to have told his deputy that he could not compromise on corruption issues owing to pressure from his own party men.
 
 
