NASHIK: The number of ticketless travellers nabbed at   station has dipped to about 618 in the first nine months of the current fiscal.

 In comparison to the corresponding period, in the last financial year, where 5,279 travellers had been nabbed for travelling without a ticket, this is a a major improvement.
 
 Railway commuters claim that the ticketless travellers use a number of illegal exit points at   station to avoid the ticket checkers, but local railway officials have argued that the huge drop in illegal travellers is due to drop in the rush of commuters.
 
 A senior ticket inspector at Nashik Road Railway station said, “The revenue obtained by nabbing ticketless commuters fetched a revenue of Rs 3.66 lakh in the first nine months of the current financial year as against Rs 4.13 lakh for the corresponding period in the last fiscal.”
 
 The worst performance of ticket checking was in May 2016 when the numbers of passengers caught by the staff fell by 489 over the performance in the earlier year, followed by the checking in November 2016 where the numbers fell by 420 for the corresponding period.
 
 “Both these months witnessed a heavy drop in the traffic of passengers for the respective reasons. In the month of April and May, the drought-hit state witnessed lesser traffic by railways and similar was the case in November due to demonetisation, announced on November 8. The traffic was about normal in December,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the patrolling has been increased and several measures have been implemented to cut down chances of people escaping from the eyes of railway officials, despite a crunch of staff. 
 
 Infrastructural changes have ensured that there are no escape routes for the people travelling without tickets. 
 
 Commuters are not convinced by the claims of railway officials. “There is more scope for increasing ticket checking at the time of arrival of local or short-distance trains. Passenger trains like the   and   are the ones which have a large number of people alighting and the lack of RPF or ticket checking personnel is affecting the same,” said Rahul Nikam, a daily commuter.
 
