CHENNAI: Monsoon is becoming the next big travel draw with hotels and airlines lining up tempting packages.

 Indigo and Spice Jet, have introduced offers as low as Rs 700 for select domestic destinations. Aggregators say between July-August (monsoon period) travel is growing at an annual rate of 20-30% year on year. However, this year by July bookings are up nearly 45%.
 
 Data from travel portal Ixigo says that the 45% growth in the number of airline bookings recorded, was driven by lower air fares, and better connectivity to airports in tier-2 cities , besides newer airlines coming up. “This year has been significantly better than the last two years - the number of travellers taking a flight increased by 20-25% during this monsoon, in comparison to last year,” said  , co-founder, Ixigo. Besides, as intra-city travel to the Delhi airport becomes cheaper - flights are now less expensive than a first class train ticket, they add.
 
 Another reason for travellers to choose the monsoon season — besides the deals — is the solitude and peace that can be found at well-known destinations; given the period is off season for families with school or college-going children. 
 
 “Travellers during monsoon are usually couples, seniors and ad hoc groups. Until 2015, monsoon travel – airline bookings and accommodation – used to be 70% of summer traffic. This year, the bookings are as much as 85% of summer traffic,” said  , CEO, B2C, and Yatra.com.
 
 In the packaged tour segment,   India’s internal research has revealed that the onset of the monsoons have seen no slowdown in demand, with consumers leveraging the opportunity of great rates, where they save approximately 15-20% more on accommodation and food and air inclusive packages, compared to peak season rates. 
 
 “This trend is especially high with budget and value seeker travellers at both ends of the spectrum Gen-Y as well as Gen-S,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head - leisure travel, MICE, Thomas Cook. The company sees a three-fold rise in holiday bookings during the traditional ‘off season’ of June-September and 15% YoY rise in domestic bookings.
 
