GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old doctor of a leading private hospital in the city, who is also the daughter of a senior IPS officer posted in the northeast, was beaten up and robbed in her flat in Blossom-II housing society in Sector 51. She claimed the   had even threatened to rape and kill her if she resisted or screamed.

 The crime took place on Saturday night when she was alone at home.
 
 In her complaint, the woman has claimed that she returned from the hospital around 9.30 pm and retired to bed after having dinner. Around 11.30 pm, she woke up to the sound of someone entering her  . Before she could realise what was happening, the man — who had covered his face with her dupatta and was armed with a   — started beating her up.
 
 “He started thrashing me and banged my head on the wall several times. He even threatened to rape and kill me if I tried to raise an alarm. So I kept quiet. He stole Rs 10,000 and jewellery, including two diamond earrings, and my cell phone, before fleeing from the back door. He had sneaked into my flat by breaking open the back door,” she said.
 
 By the time the woman raised an alarm, it was too late. Residents claimed the robbery took place despite security guards manning the gated society round-the-clock.
 
 “Burglaries and robberies are increasing in the city. Police need to solve these cases at the earliest,” said Anita Saluja, a resident.
 
 Though the society’s security officer could not be contacted despite repeated attempts, RWA president Amit Tyagi said there was no lapse of security on part of the association.
 
 “We have deployed eight guards who keep a round-the-clock vigil inside the society. The robber might have entered the society from an adjacent large area of Huda land that’s covered with grass and bushes. We have installed three halogen lights in the society,” Tyagi said.
 
 Cops were informed about the robbery on Sunday. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified robber under sections 392 (robbery), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of IPC at Sector 50 police station.
 
 “The accused entered the second-floor flat after breaking open the back door. An FIR has been registered and our teams are on the job. The accused will be arrested soon,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (east), Gurgaon. 
 
 
