PUNE: The  's latest update has indicated a gradual transition to El Niño-like conditions around September this year, the last month of the monsoon. Met officials, however, said a clearer picture of the possibility of another El Niño during the latter part of the year would emerge only in April.

 It is uncertain how the possible upcoming El Niño-like situation would impact the monsoon. But experts said a similar situation in 2014 had affected the monsoon.
 
 El Niño-Southern Oscilla tion (ENSO) is an irregularly periodical variation in winds and sea surface temperatures over the tropical eastern  . The warming phase, which is thought to impact India's southwest monsoon, is known as El Niño, while the cooling phase is La Niña.
 
 A K Sahai, head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, told TOI that the forecast indicated that the present weak La Niña conditions were likely to weaken further. `Cool ENSO neutral' conditions are likely to establish during the early part of monsoon, followed by `warm ENSO neutral' conditions during the latter part of the season. The warm `ENSO neutral conditions', in layman's terms, translate to El Niñolike conditions.
 
 D S Pai, head, climate prediction, climate research division, IMD, Pune, said preliminary observations did not indicate any likely impact of these conditions on this year's monsoon. “El Nino-like conditions may be witnessed somewhere around September this year, but we do not expect any impact on the monsoon. Future forecasts will give a clearer picture of what will actually happen. The latest forecast shows `warm neutral conditions' during the latter part of monsoon, as the Nino 3.4 index is as of now showing temperature values below the threshold level of 0.5°C,“ he said.
 
 An event is considered to be weak El Nino if the sea surface temperatures increase by more than 0.5°C above normal.
 
 A senior scientist from the   (IITM) said, “In 2014, we had neutral but warm ENSO conditions. Still, it affected the monsoon. So even if the ENSO conditions do not surpass the El Nino criteria, it can affect the monsoon if the temperature rise is significant. Current forecasts, however, indicate that there is a chance of an El Nino-like situation evolving during the latter part of this year.“
 
 Private weather forecaster Skymet had in January this year indicated that El Nino had started showing signs of resurfacing. The forecaster had said the sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean were likely to increase in a span of six months.
 
 On the chances of back-toback   (if the latter half of 2017 witnesses an El Nino-like condition), Krishna Achuta Rao from IIT Delhi's   said, “There were La Nina years as well as three to four consecutive El Nino years in the 1990s. It is, therefore, possible to have consecutive El Nino years,“ he said.
 
