DEHRADUN: The World Bank will provide Rs 600 crore to Uttarakhand to procure latest equipment and modern technology to bolster its fire-fighting efforts in forests. Last year, nearly 4,500 hectares of forest area was ravaged by fires.
 
  Head of forest force   said, “A World Bank team has completed the preliminary survey of the forest area in the state and will shortly release the funds.”
  
  The funds will be utilised by a number of departments such as forest, revenue, district administration etc for better fire management in the state. The project is likely to be enforced in the state by next year.
  
  Forest fire management nodal officer B D Gupta said, “A team of World Bank has already conducted the preliminary study concerning the reasons and extent of damage by forest fires in the state. The report has been submitted to the World Bank. Besides, they have selected five districts — Pauri, Almora, Bagheshwar, Dehradun and Nainital — where modern technology for forest fire-fighting will be introduced.”
  
  “On Saturday, I received a letter from the World Bank authorities, who sought details of the departments and officials, who would be consulted for the project in the next round of meeting in this regard,” said Gupta, adding that the departments which have been finalised for the project are forest, district administration, revenue, health, fire service, police, army, paramilitary, zila panchayat and two NGOs from each of the five district.
  
  After holding consultations with the identified officials of these departments, the team will prepare a project appraisal document to finance the project.
  
  He was hopeful of the project implementation by next year before peak summer.
  
  Gupta also hoped that the Centre would declare forest fires in the state as natural disaster and would provide fund and logistics assistance for it after the report of a mock drill — successfully conducted in coordination with various departments the behest of the Centre as prerequisite condition for declaring forest fire as natural disaster — was sent to the Union government.
  
  “Centre’s assistance and support from the World Bank will go a long way in protecting forests from ravaging fire,” added Gupta.
