In the latest episode of  , Dadi asks her bahu to bring Keerti to the temple alone and that   doesn't get to know of it. 

 This is when Naira comes over to talk to dadi but she refuses to open the door. 
 
 Naira is worried thinking if   will talk to her or not. 
 
 They spot Keerti going to the temple and ask her where she is going. Naira also comes with Keerti to the temple and dadi gets angry. 
 
 At the temple, Naira's badi ma asks for forgiveness from Suhasini. Naira looks worried and asks dadi of what is the problem.
 
 Dadi is worried how will she make Keerti meet the boy and his family since everyone is here. 
 
 Naskh saves Keerti's dress from getting caught in fire while performing the puja. Keerti likes this gesture and continues to perform puja. Naira sees all this and finds dadi getting angry. 
 
 The boy and his family come over and dadi leaves the arti half way to meet the family. 
 
 Kartik is angry and this is when Manish and chacha are seen discussing him how he is still kiddish. 
 
 Back home, Swarna is trying to look at her son's pic but is hurt while closing the almirah. She prays that nobody comes to know of this reality that she has another son. 
 
  
 Keerti performs the aarti and then Naksh also performs the aarti. 
 
 Naira then over hears a group of people talking about getting married to a divorced girl since she is from a wealthy family. 
 
 
 Naira notices them meeting the girl's family member but is unable see her face. 
 
 This is when she notices dadi speaking with those people and is shocked. 
 
 Naira decides to meet the boy's family and tells them that they will have a simple wedding also they will not have any big celebrations. After hearing about all this, the boy's family says they will think about it and they run away. 
 
 Naira tells dadi that she had heard the boy's family about how greedy they were. She makes dadi realise that they have to find the best life partner for Keerti. 
 
 Keerti comes over and hugs her dadi and takes her to not take any tension. 
 
 Dadi notices Keerti and Naksh together and how he is taking care of Keerti. Dadi is touched by Naksh's sweet gesture.
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
