SECUNDERABAD: Residents living around the AOC Centre have expressed their anger at the state government over its failure to keep arterial roads passing through the   cantonment open.Many residents feel that there is enough evidence to prove that the roads are civilian thoroughfares and do not belong to the Army , and yet the state government could not convince local Army authorities. 

 Residents also allege that the state government did not show any interest in the Army-Civilian Liaison meetings. Such meetings were held at regular intervals and all contentious issues between civilians and the Army were sorted out. The Chief minister used to preside over the meeting. But in the last one decade there have been no such meetings. The last one was attended by YS Rajasekhar Reddy in 2006.
 
 Komitla  , president of Malkajgiri Residents' Welfare Association, said that the closure of   road would cause lot of inconvenience to IT employees, college students and motorists proceeding to Bachupally , Suchitra, Shamirpet, Medchal and  . “There will be heavy traffic jams at several junctions once the Gough Road is closed. Resi dents' Welfare Associations have fought against the closure of the road. But in the absence of support from the state government, there has been no positive development. It's high time elected representatives took up the issue with the prime minister's office,“ Prasad said.
 
 Panakala Rao, a senior manager in a private firm, said he and his family would have to start from home at least an hour earlier to go anywhere. “My fa mily passes through the Gough Road every day . The closure means a de tour of 4km extra coupled with traffic snarls, high levels of pollution and waste of precious fuel. The traffic will turn unmanageable,“   said.
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 Closure of Gough Road will affect thousands of families living n colonies that have sprung up around the AOC Centre. All the Army roads, including the Gough Road, have been open to the public for decades. The closure of arterial roads without creating alternative routes will only exacerbate traffic issues. The road should be kept open till alternative roads are in place.
 
