LUCKNOW: All major political parties talk about development but have worked out their own caste com binations for political gains in UP. According to past results, a party needs support of twoand-a-half dominant castes communities -full support of two and a section of the third one -to win an election. But with BJP working on Hindu consolidation, the caste formula of SP , BSP and Congress may go awry this time as well. The game plan of parties seems to poach into each other's vote bank and catch vulnerable groups--most backward among backward castes classes and sub-castes--while holding on to their core support base.

 “BJP hopes for Hindu consolidation but doesn't have a face like in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. BSP and SP hope that in the absence of the Hidutava face, their core support bases would vote to see a chief minister of their respective castes.Hence, both BSP (Dalit base) and SP (OBC base) are trying to woo other castes through ticket distribution.If they get their combination right to defeat BJP , they will get Muslim votes, achieving the two-and-a-halfcaste formula. BJP thinks a split in Muslim votes among BSP and SP will give it an edge,“ says political analyst  .
 
 There are 79 castes under other There are 79 castes under o backward classes (OBCs).They are further categorized into backward classes (BCs) and most backward classes (MBCs). Yadav, Lodh, Kurmi and Jat come under BCs and constitute around 18% of the population, while all MBCs make up around 16.7%.Together, they have dominance in 145 assembly seats across UP. Yadavs are dominant OBCs and hold sway in 75 assembly constituencies with a population over 20%. These include Etawah and adjoining areas in west UP and Azamgarh and areas bordering Bi har in east UP.
 
 Dalits have 66 sub-castes and to gether they make up more than 20% of the population in nearly 100 assembly constituencies. Muslims are over 20% in 145 assembly seats.
 
 Brahmins play a crucial role in 60 assembly seats (over 20% of population) in central and east UP and Thakurs are important in 85 seats (over 15% of popula , tion) mainly in central and east UP , such as Pratapgarh, Amethi, Dom ariaganj and Sultanpur, and some in west UP like Fatehpur Sikri.
 
 However, to win an election, a par ty needs at least 30% of total votes which cannot be achieved through one caste alone. Parties thus cobble up caste and communal alliances to sail through.
 
 “The role of MBCs and sub-castes comes into play here. Though numbers differ from west to east UP , the demographic distribution and concentration of castes is such that a minor tilt of one caste or sub-caste can influence polls of a seat or even a region,“ says analyst  .
 
 For example, among OBCs, Jats constitute only 2% but they are over 17% of the populace in 11 districts of west UP influencing 55 assem bly seats. Similarly, Kurmis are 4% and Lodhs 2% of the population but have influence in many seats in Bun delkhand, central and east UP .
 
 Among MBCs--Mauryas, Shakyas, Sainis and Kushwaha--have influence in central and east UP , Rajbhars in east UP and Nishads, Maurya, Kushwahas, Binds in central and east UP . Together, they can play a crucial role in about 100 seats. Parties with bases among BCsMBCs and sub-castes have also come up. RLD has hold over Jats, Apna Dal over Kurmis, Mahan Dal over Mauryas, Shakyas, Sainis and Kushwaha, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party over   over a section of east UP Muslims.
 
 “A swing of 4,000-5,000 votes can win you an election in a particular constituency . This explains why major parties ally with smaller ones. In this election, BJP may tie up with Apna Dal and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party and SP with RLD, Mahan Dal and   ,“ say analysts.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav's move to recommend inclusion of 17 sub-castes from OBCs into Scheduled Caste category is aimed to get their votes.These castes are Kahar, Kashyap, Kewat, Nishad, Bind, Bhar, Prajapati, Rajbhar, Batham, Gaur, Tura, Majhi, Mallah, Kumhar, Dheemar and Machua--spread across UP .
 
 Similarly, among Dalit subcastes, BSP holds sway among Jatavs, hence other parties are wooing sub-castes like Pasis and Balmikis, which are in good number in central UP. BJP and Congress are trying to woo Pasis.
 
