THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first-ever self-help group ( ) for   people in the country was formed by   at Kunnukuzhy in the state capital on Thursday.

 The unit has been constituted in association with   (IRD), an NGO that had approached Kunnukuzhy ward councillor I P Binu with the project. IRD also offered to provide a space for the unit in their office at Plamoodu.
 
 Kudumbashree had earlier set up three special units for the transgender people in the state –– one at Kottayam and two in the Kunnukuzhy ward in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 “After the inauguration of the Kudumbashree units for transgender people, IRD officials had approached me with a similar project for HIV people. We consulted the legal formalities with the community development societies (CDS) chairperson of Kudumbashree and decided to proceed with the official registration of the unit. The members need not disclose their identity,” said Binu, who inaugurated the unit.
 
 Any HIV-infected person above the age of 18 can register with the unit. They will receive benefits like interest-free personal or home loans, available to members of other Kudumbashree units.
 
 A total five HIV positive people registered their names with the unit on Thursday.
 
 IRD chairman C Balachandran said that more people have expressed interest in joining the unit and the members will be provided nutrition kits and financial help to meet their medical expenses.
 
 “Social stigma and discrimination still exists in the minds of the people. Due to this fear, many do not even avail the benefits due to them,” said a member of the newly-formed unit, who has been a HIV patient for the last 20 years.
 
 A 10-member committee was formed during the launch of the special unit. The unit will hold weekly meetings to discuss the medical and other requirements.
 
 “The special units are being launched as part of Disha 2017, a Kudumbashree project to help the transgender community, disabled people and people belonging to socially and economically backward sessions,” said CDS chairperson K Reena.
 
