MUMBAI: An activist, D Stalin, has sought to draw the government’s attention towards protecting the highly sensitive coastal ecosystem of the city and demanded that nets be installed at nallahs that connect to the creeks.

  Stalin said that non-degradable waste going into the sea pollutes beaches and damages marine lives and mangroves. 
 
 “The   government is talking only about construction-related development and is not doing anything about protecting the environment. Plastic bottles and garbage going into the sea from nallahs, kills mangroves and fish,” said environmentalist D Stalin. “The government is not doing anything to make our beaches clean. I have written to the authorities concerned and want to draw their attention towards the issue or I will approach court for assistance,” he added. 
 
 The municipal corporation plans to set up a waste water treatment facility at Malwani in Malad and some other coastal areas to ensure that they can release only treated waste water into the sea to make beaches clean. But the activist said that this is not enough. He said that the key point is to stop garbage going into sea as it is chocking mangroves and endangering marine life. 
 
 A senior civic official, who did not want to be named, said, “The civic authority had conducted a similar experiment at Chembur where a drain joins the creek.” “We found that a discarded bed, a chair and large junk material had made its way into the nallah and blocked the flow of water. The constriction had caused the nullah to start overflowing. Such an experiment can be successful only if the nullah can be cleaned on a daily basis. It also need continuous attention during the monsoon to avoid flooding in nearby areas,” he added. 
 
 A survey conducted by an environmentalist has found increasing accumulation of non-degradable waste into the sea and wetlands. It also revealed that this waste is coming from the numerous nullahs that discharge sewage into the creeks and sea. The nullahs are chock-a-block with plastic bags, Styrofoam cups and other non-degradable material into the creeks and eventually into the sea.
 
 Worried by the findings, Stalin has urged the government and the civic body to address the issue. “The nets can be lifted up and cleaned daily to prevent the entry of non-degradable waste into the marine ecosystem. It is a good option,” said an environmental activist. 
 
 
