Born to Indian parents, London-based pianist Karl Lutchmayer is strongly connected to his Indian roots. Karl, who keeps travelling between London and India, spoke to BT about his passion for   and how he aims to open a music university in India some day. Excerpts:

 
 
 It’s funny because sometimes I don’t get the balance right (laughs). I teach at the Trinity College of Music, London, for 15 weeks in a year. The rest of the time I travel and perform. Still, there have been times when my schedules have clashed. But I am thankful that the college I teach at has been supportive.
 
 
 I started playing music at a very young age. My first music teacher asked me what I wanted to do and I told her I wanted to play the piano. At the time, my parents didn’t think that music was a good career option, so in my teenage years I started training to be a lawyer. However, I began thinking about playing the piano again, took it seriously and trained for the same.
 
 
 
 In most of the countries where I perform, people are aware of Western music. However, when I play in India, people are so surprised with my performance that they come up to me and tell me that they’ve never seen a live piano recital. I feel privileged that I get to play in front of such a vast audience.
 
 
 It’s hard to point out any one incident. There have been several such instances, like my debut on stage in London. Other instances were when I played for the first time in Mumbai and in Goa.
 
 
 As a pianist, there are many whom I look up to, but if I had to name one person in particular it would be French pianist Pierre Laurent Aimrad. I was fortunate to study with him. His approach to music and life has had an influence on me as well.
 
 
 For the last few years, I have been concentrating on my work in India. I hope to open a music university in India where people can learn the piano and the nuances of Western music. It is surprising that countries smaller than India have a well-established ground in Western music. But India has no proper music conservatory. In addition to that, I plan to keep globe-trotting and continue to play the piano. I also founded a rock band three years ago, so I hope to play with them more.
 
 
 
 First and foremost, they must work hard, work well and enjoy the music they play. Second would be to get a good and experienced teacher to teach them. There are lots of young musicians in India who need training, but very few well-trained music teachers. It is very important for young musicians to listen to lots of other forms of music. They must have a keen interest in other genres of music, fine arts, theatre and such because that helps them grow as musicians.
 
 
 
 The first time I visited Bengaluru was in 1977. The city has managed to retain the ‘old days’ charm. The climate, the freshness is still there. Bengaluru still has its cultural aspect intact; the city is full of music. The city always brings back lots of childhood memories.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Oh, I love vintage cars. I always manage to attend vintage car rallies in Kolkata and Mumbai. I would love to collect them, but that’s not possible. So what I do instead is I buy a car and keep it with me for about 4-5 years and then I sell it. I’ve always believed that you don’t own the car; it is the car that owns you.
 
 
