Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan has emerged smarter than his arch political rival and NCP president Sharad Pawar. A week ago, there was a row over foundation stone laying for the Pune Metro rail project. BJP had invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the event. Initially, BJP had decided that since it was an official function of the state, there was no need to invite senior leaders of Congress or NCP. Then Congress and NCP leaders decided to lay separate foundation stone for the project a day before the event. It was decided that Chavan will lay the foundation stone on behalf of the Congress, while NCP had proposed to invite Sharad Pawar. In between, senior BJP leader and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis stepped in, saying, it was high time a settlement is reached to avoid an embarrassment before the Prime Minister. BJP persuaded NCP, but Congress did not agree. As per the announcement, Chavan laid the foundation stone in presence of large number of party activists. On the day of the event,   was among the dignitaries, along with the PM. It was believed that since Pawar was on the dais and in view of his closeness with the PM, he will be given an opportunity to speak, but BJP quietly dropped his name from the list of speakers. NCP leader Ajit Pawar lodged a strong protest, saying, it was humiliation to a person, who will complete 50 years in public life in February 2017. 

  Making their presence felt 
 
    MPs Arvind Sawant, Rajkumar Dhoot, Sanjay Raut, NCP's Supriya Sule, D P Tripathi,Dhananjay Mahadik and BJP's Gopal Shetty have set new records in the recently concluded winter session of the parliament. South Mumbai   Member Arvind Sawant and Mumbai North Lok Sabha member Gopal Shetty's attendance in the Lok Sabha was 100%. Sawant and Shetty are followed by NCP's Tripathi (99%) and BJP's Chintaman Wanga (98%). As per the data available on the parliament website, Shiv Sena's Rajkumar Dhoot asked the largest number of questions (1184), followed by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut (1083) and Vijay Darda (1028), while in the Lok Sabha, Supriya Sule raised the largest number of questions (680), followed by Mahadik (679) and Shrirang Barne (672). Barne participated in largest number of debates (193), followed by Sawant (190) and Hussain Dalwai (173). It was found that Vijay Singh Mohite Patil and   were among the members, who did not participate in the debates, while Sharad Pawar and P Chidabaram did not ask even a single question. Says a Lok Sabha member, it is a difficult task to make your presence felt in the Lok Sabha, in view of the fact that most of the MPs from Maharashtra are not fluent in either English or Hindi. Further, even if a MP submits a question within the stipulated period, there is no guarantee that it will come up for discussion or is considered as un-star question, which is tabled in the house, but not taken up for discussion, since everything depends on substance and seriousness of the question. 
 
  Not confident enough? 
 
 A few days ago, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis launched 'Bharosa Cell', a new venture of the Nagpur police led by veteran IPS officer and newly appointed police commissioner K Venkatesham. Under the scheme, the police will make efforts to restore confidence among women and children on their safety and security. It appears that before launching the concept, Fadnavis did not secure confidence of his own legislators from his hometown Nagpur. A week ago, BJP legislators from Nagpur, led by Krishna Khopade, launched a frontal attack on the police to protest over the manner in which a murder case was being investigated. Khopade, whose son, is an accused in the late night brawl in a controversial hotel, alleged that the law enforcing agencies were not impartial and that youths, who were not involved in the incident, were dragged in at the instance of senior officers. Ever since Fadnavis took over the reins of the state in October 2014, he has been at the receiving end over the law and order in Nagpur. Though Fadnavis has rejected the charge, both leader of opposition in the assembly, Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and his legislative council counterpart, Dhananjay Munde, had described Nagpur as a crime capital.
 
