It is just not banks which are wielding the provisions of the   Code to recover dues.Even employees have started approaching the   ( ) as was seen in a recent bankruptcy application filed by employees of   in Chennai against their former employer.
 
  Although over 125 cases have been referred before NCLT by either financial creditors or operational creditors, this is the first instance that an employee has approached the bankruptcy court. If these employees are able to recover their dues, it will set a precedent for thousands of other employees who do not have the wherewithal to take on the management to recover their dues.
  
  The Chennai bench of NCLT admitted the application filed by three employees for commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process and has appointed P Sriram as interim insolvency professional (IIP). Employees said that Aruna Hotels failed to pay arrears of salary , gratuity and leave salary of these employees.
  
  In the case of Aruna Hotels, the court referred to the case of an employee D Ramjees, who joined as junior assistant and rose to the rank of company secretary. He had made a demand of Rs 2.6 crore but the respondent (the company) had denied the liability. What went in favour of the employee was that a day after the petition was filed before the NCLT on April 3, the MD, in a letter, acknowledged the liability of clear ing these arrears. The court has directed the insolvency professional to take charge and declared moratori um of any legal ac tion of recovery against the company till the completion of insolvency process. The court has also directed the other two employees N Krishnan and C Ganapathy to approach IIP with their claims.
  
  These developments come at a time when lenders are keeping a close watch on how the new code will help them recover their dues particularly after  , one of 12 defaulters, has dragged RBI to court stating that it was discriminated against when compared to other defaulters. In June, RBI had asked banks to 12 large defaulters to move the NCLT to recover their dues.
  
  Since IBC has come into effect early this year, a variety of cases would set a precedent for future disputes.Earlier, in a case of Ms Schweitzer Systemtek India versus Phoenix ARC, the court has ruled that the borrower can't escape liquidation of personal assets by simply filing for bankruptcy that allows moratorium on all legal proceeding against the company of rich promoters.
