PUNE: Helping a stranger sometimes proves dangerous, as 41-year-old Sanjay Mahamuni recently found out.

 On January 16, a person whom Mahamuni had given a lift allegedly drugged and robbed him of his gold ornaments worth Rs 1.96 lakh.
 
 Mahamuni, a goldsmith from Vitthalwadi, lodged a police complaint against an unidentified man on January 25. Around 7pm on January 16, Mahamuni was riding from Vitthalwadi to Swargate on his motorcycle when an unknown person asked him for a lift to the bus stand. As he usually helps people stranded on roads, Mahamuni agreed and dropped him off at the gate.
 
 While he was parked on the road and checking messages on his cellphone, another person approached him and asked him if he could be dropped off near Sarasbaug.
 
 “Mahamuni told him he was going towards   and had no problem dropping him near Sarasbaug,“ assistant inspector   said.
 
 More said that when they were near   around 7.45pm, the person told Mahamuni he wanted to have coffee and requested Mahamuni to accompany him.“As Mahamuni stopped the motorcycle, the person told him he would buy the coffee.Once he left, Mahamuni went back to checking his cellphone messages,“ More added. The person came back with two cups of coffee and offered one to Mahamuni. After taking a few sips, Mahamuni felt drowsy. “He did not remember what happened after that,“ More said, adding that the coffee was most probably laced with sedatives. As he was distracted with his cellphone, Mahamuni could not tell police where the man brought the coffee from.
 
 When Mahamuni gained consciousness, he found him self in a private luxury bus in Hadapsar and the ticket checker was asking him for a ticket. Mahamuni told police he does not know how he boarded the bus.
 
 “Mahamuni was shocked when he found that his gold chain, gold rings and cash were missing,“ More said. Initially, Mahamuni suspected that the bus employees had removed his ornaments and started quarrelling with them. “Later, he remembered having coffee with the unknown person,“ More said.
 
 Mahamuni was sent to the  , where his blood samples were collected and sent for chemical analysis. Police later found his motorcycle parked in the Swargate area and have begun checking   footage to trace the suspect, More said.
 
