NAGPUR: Top officials of five nationalized and two  , along with a non-banking financial institution, are now under scanner of   (EOW) of city police crime branch as summons are set to be shortly issued for them in the case of frauds allegedly masterminded by Rajnish Singh, son of former Deputy general manager of Ordnance factory, Ambajhari, Nagpur, who is now in remand custody.

 Based on the custodial interrogation of Singh, the EOW sleuths are now inching towards exposing the dubious loan scams of, at least, eight banks and nexus of a section of their employees with the culprit.
 
 It was reliably learnt that EOW sleuths on Sunday verified the spot at   where Singh has claimed to have helped three of his victims, Navneet Pandey, Amol Zade and Nitin Shrivas, to open factories of bottling plants and packaged mineral water. Police sources stated that the factory, which Singh claimed to have opened for others, belonged to him. “It is highly questionable as to how the banks have sanctioned different loans on the same property. There is a doubt whether there was any genuine verifications of the loan applicant’s credibility and background before sanctioning loans to the tunes of crores,” said a police official. 
 
 Singh, nabbed in a dramatic manner from his residence at   nagar last week, had been booked in a case of fraud at   police station in November last year following a complaint from his estranged wife Sunita. The evidences piled against Singh snowballed with passing time as more victims of his so-called frauds came to fore furnishing details of loans to the tune of several lakhs being procured in their names by Singh on various grounds promising benefits which they did not get. 
 
 The fraud case, though initially thought to be of around Rs five crores, is now seeming to expand with more dimensions as the bank officials’ questionable roles are increasingly coming up in sanctioning loans. The case, though registered few months back, picked up pace after High court refused to extend relief to Singh last month after Sessions court rejected his plea after police pointed out his non-co-operative stance. 
 
 DCP, Economic offence wing (EOW), Ishu Sindhu, having a proven track record in financial scams, said the assistance of professional banking and financial experts would be hired in the case to fine tune the probe. “The connivance of the accused and bank officials are part of the probe now. The details of the case would be scrutinized and analysed through professional help to unfurl the finer ingredients of the evidences from the documents we are collecting,” he said. “It is obvious from the probe so far that several people have been duped and at different places,” said DCP EOW. 
 
 Senior PI Vazeer Shaikh, in-charge of property cell, said the bank officials would be sent summons on Monday for appearing before the police for the requirement of the probe. “Some of the banks and institutions are refusing police cooperation in the matter on various pretexts when loan details were sought from them. The question lies here as to why the loan details are not being furnished to police when they are dealing with public money,” said Shaikh.
 
