KOLKATA: The pujas might be two months away but the   - especially  , Diamond Harbour Road and Taratala Road - has prompted local traffic guards to send an SOS to civic agencies asking them to repair the roads at the earliest.

 Sources at Lalbazar said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar would compile a list of all the damaged roads and send it to civic agencies after all 25 traffic guards send in their inputs.
 
 Though an yearly exercise before pujas, this year cops want this completed on a war footing for two specific reasons. Firstly, the pujas are being held earlier than usual.Secondly , the puja shopping is likely to pick up from the middle of next month.
 
 The roads, which cops want the civic bodies to repair at the earliest, are the Silpara stretch on Diamond Harbour Road near SB Park puja, the Ultadanga underpass near Telengabagan-Karbagan pujas and EM Bypass.
 
 Traffic officers said that the number of accidents on some stretches were being kept in mind before appealing to civic authorities.
 
 Some of the other stretches under police watch are Raja Subodh Mullick Road, Cossipore Road, Canal East and Canal West Roads and a couple of roads in the port area, which are dotted with potholes, cracks, dug-up pavements and big bumps.
 
 Both Behala and EM Bypass host some of the biggest pujas in Kolkata, which has left the cops worried about the crowd control owing to the road condition.
 
 “We will submit the report in due time. It is easier to manage traffic and people during pujas when the road conditions are good,“ Nesakumar said.
 
 “The condition of Diamond Harbour Road is so bad that we don't know where to put the barricade. The patchwork in some areas are shoddy and on some stretches, two different levels have been created on the road surface,“ a senior police officer said.
 
 Worried, the cops are now drawing up contingency plans for EM Bypass and Diamond Harbour Road. A senior officer said that all 25 traffic guards have been instructed to provide more personnel in and around shopping destinations, especially in the evening, starting from next month.
 
 Sources in the   roads department said that a comprehensive road repair programme was being taken up by the civic body . “We have prepared a list of worst-affected roads, which are to be given top priority. Let the Kolkata traffic police provide its own list of bad roads. We will take care of those roads too,“ said a KMC roads department official.
 
 The KMC sewerage and drainage department has also taken precautionary steps to tackle heavy rains. “We have asked executive engineers and all drainage department officials to keep heavy duty pumps functioning to flush out storm water,“ Tarak Singh, mayor-in-council member overseeing the KMC drainage department said.
 
