KOLHAPUR: The civic body’s   to pay property tax dues has received  .

 During the current financial year that is going to end in the next few days, the property tax department has received just Rs 22 lakh through the online mode. The total number of property tax payers registered with the   (KMC) is around 1.28 lakh and only 4,000 have paid their taxes online. The target of the property tax during the current year is Rs 52 crore and as of now the department has raked in Rs 48 crore.
 
 Diwakar Karande, property tax superintendent, said, “The online property tax system is in place since the last couple of years. We expected a good response this year owing to increase in cashless transactions. The online payment mode needs to be increased as it helps reduce human interference. We are going to take up several steps such as awareness programmes and workshops to increase the number of tax payments made through online.”
 
 The online mode of tax payment is also available for water tax and estate fees. However, the response for both water tax and estate fees is negligible. The municipal corporation of Pune decided to offer 5% discount over payment of the property tax through online mode and due to the discount the corporation hopes to see increase in the number of citizens using online mode for payment of taxes.
 
 The KMC authorities claim that offering discount for online payment can be one of the measures which will be taken up for discussion with the higher authorities.
 
 Currently, the tax rebate scheme for the property tax is in place. The property tax is collected once in a year and those paying the tax amount in first three months get 6% discount, those paying in six months gets 4% discount and in first nine months get 3% discount.
 
 “During the tax recovery drive we provide details of the procedure for paying the tax online. Since the tax rebate scheme is in place there is no need for the discount for paying dues online. However, payment through online mode will reduce inconvenience caused to the citizens at the citizen felicitation centres (CFCs) during rush hour,” said Karande.
 
 The property owner has to first register with the KMC's e-governance website for making online payment. All the details such as name, address, property number are necessary to registration.
 
