NAGPUR: Students who got admission under the   (RTE) Act quota and whose school’s primary and secondary sections are located on different campuses are in for a shock. According to the  , a school’s legal obligation to provide free education to   students is for a specific branch. Dipendra Lokhande, Nagpur district’s education officer said, “As per current rule there will be no automatic admission from primary to secondary section if the buildings are located on separate campuses. RTE provision ends at the highest level of class available on the campus where the student is currently studying.”

 This is a wake-up call for parents who seek RTE admission in standalone primary schools. The reason this problem never came to fore earlier is because kids who took admission under RTE in 2012-13 are just now moving out of primary section. No immediate data was available with the education department, but it is likely 4-5 schools in the city may have such issue. 
 
 It came to notice when around 50 students of Std IV from two prominent CBSE schools in city found themselves without any option for proceeding to Std V. These are standalone branches with only primary section operating in the heart of the city. Their bigger branches operate separately, almost 10km to 15km away, as full-fledged units having classes from Std I to Std XII. Trustee of one of these schools said, “We have genuine problem because in our full-fledged unit already 25% seats are filled with RTE students. Now if we are to take another 25% students, it’s unreasonable. We are not refusing admission, we are simply saying the requisite fee has to be paid.”
 
 Education officer Lokhande agreed school managements’ stand is legally correct. “I have written to my superiors seeking directions on how to proceed, as I have to follow the rulebook,” he said. Bolstering the schools’ stand, apart from the government rule quoted by Lokhande, is that both branches have separate registration numbers. The number given to schools after being registered in the government database called   (UDISE), treats them as separate entities.
 
 Another education official said, “For RTE admissions, we first ask schools to register and their UDISE number is taken as the focal point. If UDISE number is different, even though management is same, technically the system treats them as separate entities.”
 
 A senior academician, who did not want to be named, said, “It’s unfair for parents to demand admissions to bigger branch under RTE norms. They were allotted the school in the first place because they lived within 1km to 3km of that building. So why do they wish to shift to a school 15kms away?”
 
 As per law, the state is responsible to ensure the students do not lose their academic year, hence it is likely they will be offered admission in state-aided schools in the vicinity.
 
