BHOPAL: Seven days after a 15-year-old student of Class 9 went   from Ayodhya Nagar area in the capital reached his uncle’s home in Jablapur on Friday morning, looking all exhausted and frail. Visibly excited and happy to see the boy, Piyush Kori’s uncle Ashish had difficulty in recognising him for some moments. 

 Mosquito bites all over boy’s body and his condition gave goosebumps to his parents, but once back in the company of their son, the parents joy knew no bounds. In one week’s time, the harried parents had gone through enough --anxiety, worries and fear. In the end, it turned out the boy was not abducted, but left home as he was disturbed over supplementary in three subjects. 
 
 Upon receiving information, the boy’s parents, also accompanied Ashish to Jabalpur. His parents and boy’s uncle rushed with police to get the boy. His uncle and parents, who were in   looking frantically for the teenager for some time, rushed to   after receiving information about the boy from their maid. 
 
 The boy left for tuition class on April 7, but did not reach there. The incident came to light when his teacher informed his parents about the boy not turning up for tuition. Subsequently, parents approached the police and cops registered a case of abduction as he is a minor. The boy was not carrying mobile phone and had just Rs 200 cash on him.
 
 The boy’s uncle, Ashish, told TOI, after leaving home he stayed at Habibganj railway station for a day. He had food with the cash he was carrying and avoided cops at the station. Next day, he boarded the Intercity Express and went till Hoshangabad without a train ticket.
 
 For two days, he stayed at the station and survived on water as he had run of money by then. He wanted to go to Jabalpur, but boarded a wrong train from Hoshangabad and reached Budhni. He got down from train, bathed in river Narmada and walked 15 km to reach Hoshangabad .
 
 On April 11, he reached Jabalpur by the Intercity Express and went to Gwari Ghat there. He cleaned ghats there, survived on prasad. He wanted to come home, but could not muster the courage. When the teenager recounted his story to a person at Gauri Ghat, the man advised him to go to his uncle’s place and gave him some money. He came till his uncle’s colony, but returned and spent another night at Gwari Ghat.
 
 “He was moving around my house with his face slightly covered with a cloth in Jabalpur while we were busy searching for him in Bhopal. But luckily, my maid identified him and passed on the information to us. We reached Jabalpur on Thursday night, but Piyush could not be traced. On Friday morning, he came to home on his own.
 
 “Piyush’s condition is not good as he hardly ate anything. There are mosquito bites all over his body. He has become frail and complexion has gone dark. Even we could hardly identify him,” Ashish said.
 
 The boy will be brought to Bhopal for completing police formalities and will be taken back to Jabalpur for a few days to keep him away from nosey Parkers, the family said.
 
 Ayodhya Nagar police have declared a cash reward of Rs 5,000 to trace the boy and made all-out efforts to find him back.
 
 Stayed at Habibganj station on April 7 and April 8 
 
 Lived in Hoshangabad dist on April 9 and 10
 
 Spend three days at Gwari ghat in Jabalpur from April 11
 
