LUCKNOW: The assembly election disaster leaves BSP supremo   facing political oblivion in a state where she has been chief minister on four occasions.

 Roundly defeated in the 2014   elections, BSP has now slipped from its previous tally of 80 assembly seats in 2012 to 18. Mayawati now faces the prospect of her party losing its national status -BSP also was wiped out in Uttarakhand where it had three seats.
 
 BSP's strength in the Rajya Sabha, too, is set to diminish from five to three on April 2, 2018, when Mayawati and another BSP MP, Munquad Ali, retire. Mayawati, given the few MLAs she has, will in fact struggle to re-enter the Rajya Sabha.
 
 “It's nothing less than a disaster for BSP,“ JNU professor Badri Narayan told TOI. He said BSP today appears to belong to a “bygone era of Dalit politics“ and the situation would allow other parties to grab a share of a Dalit vote bank that had voted BSP since the days of Kanshiram.
 
 Mayawati, Narayan, said, failed to re-invent herself while preparing for this assembly election, seen as one that would determine her political fate. At a time when caste is not the only winning factor, and perceptions (created in mainstream and social media, which Maya shuns) play a big role, Maya seemed to have remained in a time warp. But for a rare visit to Gujarat when the flogging of a Dalit youth created a national outrage, Mayawati largely restricted herself to her bungalows in Delhi and Lucknow.Even BSP cadres working at the ground level were unable to discern the growing expectations of its vote bank, especially the Dalits.
 
 Mayawati's biggest problem, political experts said, will be keeping her flock together. It was only in June last year that the BSP supremo received a rude shock: her aide and party national general secretary,  , accused her of selling election tickets to candidates. Maurya's rebellion set off a revolt in the BSP ranks and party MLAs switched to BJP one after the other over six months.
 
 While senior party members remained tight-lipped, sources said the situation could force party cadres to introspect. “Ab kya kahein ... pehle to party ko samhalna padega,“ was the response of a BSP functionary when TOI contacted him. Another senior BSP member said the situation was more or less orchestrated by BJP which engineered a rebellion. “Let us see what happens,“ said another BSP functionary.
 
