Within a few days, the skies of   in Kasaragod will witness Kathakali, Theyyam and more of Kerala’s art forms dotting its horizons in style. At the festival, which will be on from May 5 to 7, will be some majestic tigers, night glowers and even a few ‘stunt men’   as well. 

 As the State gears up to kick off its biggest kite festival that would see for the first time, some major international participation featuring fliers from Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia, Kochi Times checks out what’s special about the kites at the Malabar International  , its participants and more:
 
 
 Kerala will be all over the skies 
 
 The fest debuted last year and mostly had local participation. But this year, the international registration has increased. However, that doesn’t dim the local flavour one bit.
 The four Kerala teams, out of the total nine, are doing their best to fill the Bekal skies with all things ‘mallu’.   team from Kozhikode is all set to feature their 110-foot-long Kathakali kite at the fest, which has garnered recognition across the globe.
 
 Abdulla Maliekal of the team says, “We took part in the International Kite Festival in China last week and we could effectively represent the colourful Indian culture at the fest with the Kathakali kite.” There will also be a ‘caparisoned elephant kite’ which is about 14-foot-long, with an umbrella over its head. Rajesh Nair from Kochi, the man behind it, is also featuring about 22 kites at the fest including a Mahabali kite complete with black moustache, paunch, crown and an umbrella.
 
 “Showcasing our culture and heritage through a variety of themes is often encouraged at kite festivals. We are trying to do that here too. I am also doing my best to develop a kite-flying culture in our State,” says Rajesh, who is a regular at kite fests across the country and even abroad.
 
 It’s not just Malayalis like Rajesh but fliers from outside Kerala too would be showcasing kites inspired by the State. Mehul Pathak from Gujarat, who is also a regular at international fests, says, “I have an elephant kite, designed after one of the most loved animals in Kerala. When I flew it in Kozhikode seven years ago, it was great to see how people loved it and so, I’m bringing it back this time at Bekal.”
 
 
 Stars of the fest
 
 There are around 60 different massive kites at the fest, out of which the tiger, tri-colour arch kites, stunt kites and night glowers are the star attractions.
 One India Kite team will also be bringing its renowned 35-foot-long, 8-foot-wide tiger kite, which they have been travelling various countries with, including the recent World Kite Championship in China. It will be debuting in India via the Malabar Fest. Abdulla says, “We wanted the design after our national animal. Renowned designer Peter Lynn made the kite in New Zealand and spent 40 days working on it. It’s made of ripstop nylon and weighs about 14.5 kg.”
 
 Meanwhile, the tri-colour arch kite, which is from Gujarat team, has a total of 90 kites. Mehul Pathak says, “It’s a single string kite which made up of 30 kites each in white, saffron and green colours. This time, I am also bringing along a similar rainbow kite, which is made up of around 100 smaller kites.”
 
 Adding sound and splendour to the visually-appealing kites will be the acrobatic sports kites aka stunt men kites, which are manoeuvred with both hands. Fliers say that you can make different shapes with them on the sky, and the kite also makes a sound, which thrill the viewers.
 
 To light up the night sky, night glowers or illuminated fliers are used that are delta-shaped kites fitted with LED lights. When you fly them at night, you would also see the shapes that they make on the sky with the light, for instance, of a bicycle rider, a butterfly, and the like.
 
 
 The more the merrier
 
 With the organisers going all out to make the event special, participants can enter as family, couple or as individuals. “Anyone can walk and do registration on the spot,” say the organisers, adding that many enquiries have come in abroad as well expressing interest to watch the event and get a dose of Kerala culture via kites. 
 
 
