MEWAT: Most   outlets on Gurgaon-Alwar highway in the Muslim-majority   region have shut down for the kanwar yatra. 

 The shop owners claimed they have done so voluntarily, though some admitted they feared miscreants would try to stoke tension over sale of meat during the pilgrimage and had gone for the safer option. 
 
 Hindu pilgrims — kanwariyas — are crossing this route to and from various sites on the Ganga.
 
 Famous for its chicken biryani and korma, the 60 km stretch of of Gurgaon-Alwar highway that cuts across Mewat is smeared with shades of saffron, the colour of kanwariyas, these days. The pilgrims have been assigned the Gurgaon-Nuh side of the road, where around a dozen   camps have been set up and vendors or hawkers are not allowed to set up shop due to security reasons cited by Mewat police.
 
 But instead of shifting over to the other side, most of the 200-odd biryani outlets in the two dozen villages between Rewason and Doha have shut shop. The decision, they say, was made as a mark of communal harmony between Hindu kanwariyas and Mewati Muslims. Only around 30 outlets, selling chicken biryani, remain open. 
 
 Aslam, who has been running a biryani eatery for over a decade, told TOI they don’t want to hurt religious sentiments. “Mewat is known for Hindu-Muslim brotherhood. Hindus celebrate Eid with us, and we join them in Holi. This is why there haven’t ever been any communal riots in Mewat. We want to maintain this, and if that means not selling meat for a few weeks, so be it,” he said.
 
 North India began marking the Hindu month of Sawan on July 10. It will end on August 7. Most biryani sellers   their outlets about 10 days before kanwariyas arrived. 
 
 “We keep large bins outside our shops to dump bones. There have been instances when we found the bones littered on the route of kanwariyas. So, we closed down our shops. Anyway, we used to have lower sales during this month, because many Hindus don’t consume meat now. Instead, we go back to farming and other businesses,” said Yakub Qureshi, another biryani seller.
 
 Mohammad Habib, member, Haryana Haj Committee, said, “Mewatis respect all religions. We’re cautious not to hurt any sentiments.” 
 
 “The gesture is proof of the Mewati Muslims’ generosity. Despite recent incidents, Mewatis have set an example for the rest of the country. Ganga-Yamuna tehzeeb (peaceful coexistence) is alive here,” said Surender Pratap Arya, Mewat district president of BJP. 
 
 
