PANAJI: A posh white sedan winds slowly through the squalid streets of   on Saturday morning, as the polling process is on. The vehicle draws attention for reasons other than the obvious one.

 In the backseat, with her sunglasses on, is former Santa Cruz MLA   or ‘Mummy’, putting her hand out for supporters to shake, reminding them of her son, independent candidate Rudolf Fernandes.
 
 Other than the minor flutter ‘Mummy’ creates and the intimidating number of security personnel at the polling stations, it was a usual day for the residents.
 
 After voting, the slum’s residents went about making grocery purchases and gathering outside their dingy cubicles to catch up with friends on the polling day holiday. Life goes on for these slum-dwellers who get maximum attention just before every election and are forgotten just as quickly.
 
 While Indiranagar residents were tight-lipped about their approach to the 2017 polls, in the other large slum located at Zuarinagar in Cortalim, the dwellers probably explain this indifference. “People here, have to go to the jungle to relieve themselves still,” says Kaatje Lamani, a member of Zuarinagar’s Lamani Camp. 
 
 Viewed as mere vote-bank, nothing more and nothing less, the 1,300 to 1,500 settlers have now resigned themselves to their fate, that their demands will not be met.
 
 With open drains, open defecation, garbage strewn across the entire slum in both Indiranagar and Zuarinagar, basic sanitation remains a distant dream for these residents. Living amidst abject squalor, in what could best be described as boxes stacked upon boxes, their basic need for community toilets have been ignored by successive MLAs.
 
 “The last time a foundation stone was laid by the MLA, it was reported by the local media. But soon after she left, the foundation stone was also taken away,” Mahesh Lamani said.
 
 In the Zuarinagar market, Sazhia Begum lifts her finger to prove that she voted, but complains that after elections, the slum is largely forgotten. “Water pressure is low and it’s only over the last eight days that we have had continuous water,” the vegetable vendor said.
 
