THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: 'Policies of convenience' ­ adopted by successive governments to keep the state's   banking sector away from RBI guidelines - have started raining fire on hundreds and thousands of citizens who misjudged these cooperatives as safe tax heavens. Now,   (I-T) department has started sending notices to people who made deposits in cooperative banks over the past five years.

 Cooperative bank customers in Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram and Kozhikode were the first to receive I-T notices. Investors, irrespective of the size of their deposits, have been asked to furnish details regarding their investments in cooperative societies along with its source. They have been directed to submit their I-T returns for the past four years.
 
 I-T office has asked recipients to give a reply in 20 days, the notices were sent as regis were sent as registered post. Recipients were told that the department had all the information about their deposits in the recent past and hence details of the same should be furnished to I-T office in person maile-mail mentioned in the notice.
 
 Unlike big sharks who rely on tax havens to hoard their illgotten gains, majority of those who deposited money in cooperative societies had chosen their neighbourhood cooperative banks for their convenience and the better interest offered against their investments.
 
 Sources said that most of those who were served I-T notices made fixed deposit by selling their properties or using their retirement benefits. In most cases, the deposit were made for a brief period. Since the capital gains they made were not declared to the government, they often kept the money at the cooperative societies.
 
 Many of them have already exhausted their deposits and are now held answerable by the I-T department. It's true that KYC norms were not followed by cooperative banks in the past. But that doesn't mean that investors are exempted from paying income tax on their earnings.
 
 It seems, the state government is not troubled by the department's move. “Post-demonetisation period witnessed a slew of attempts by the Centre to put the cooperative sector in a bad light. Several people should have kept their investments with cooperative societies. The I-T department's actions would create a scare. It's not going to go beyond that. If there are deliberate attempts to harass people for having invested small amounts with cooperative societies, the state government would take up the matter seriously," said cooperation minister Kadakampally Surendran.
 
 BJP spokesper son MS Kumar, a major promoter of cooperative banks, said there was no need to panic. “As far as I know, notices were sent to depositors of societies that had paid abnormally high amount per day to cooperative banks after November 8, 2016.This happened since many societies had a practice of keeping daily collections with them for days together before they deposited the same at the district cooperative banks. Worst case, the fine on capital gains for the deposits wouldn't be that high," he said.
 
 Former Congress MLA, K Sivadasan Nair - who has a long association with the cooperative movement - said there were deliberate attempts to thwart the credibility of the cooperative sector. “Successive governments have always argued for the freedom of cooperative societies. Primary cooperatives are governed by a state legislation and the cooperative registrar is its controlling authority. RBI has no control over primary cooperative societies. When it comes to income tax, there is little scope for argument," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Kumar* was surprised when he received a notice from the income tax (I-T) department which asked him to disclose the deposits with various cooperative banks. “Fact is, I was not a member of any cooperative societies in Kerala. The closest connection I had with a cooperative bank was when I was named as the nominee of a fixed deposit my mother-in-law had made in a cooperative society," he said.
 
 Since I regularly file tax returns, I could submit copies of the same to the I-T department. But the wordings in the notice were enough to hurt the sentiments of a regular tax payer. It was claimed in the notice that the department had information regarding 'several investments' I had with various cooperative banks. I felt it was weird, he said.
 
 
 
 Balakrishnan* received I-T notice for the deposit he made a few years ago at a nearby cooperative society. “At first I took a loan from the bank for the marriage of my sister. Later, I had to sell my property to clear the loan and other liabilities in connection the marriage. I deposited the money in the bank for a few months and later used the same to close the loan as well as the other debts. A major portion of the money was spent for the medical treatment of my father,” he said.
 
 These transactions happened four years ago. “Since the cooperative bank promised me that deposits would not attract income tax, I did not keep the documents of medical treatment and other expenditure. Now, as per I-T notice, I am supposed to pay tax on capital gains. If I were told of the risk, I would have kept the records and claimed tax exemption,“ he said.
 
