Guwahati: The   peace process, which the Centre claims to be in its last stage, has come under threat with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) strongly objecting to India’s decision to fence the borders between   and Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram. 

 Since 2015, the Centre and the   (I-M), the two stakeholders in the peace process, have been busy settling certain technical questions to have a formal agreement on the Naga question. The NSCN (I-M), the biggest of all Naga outfits fighting for a sovereign homeland for Nagas living on either side of the India-Myanmar border, first entered into peace negotiations with India in 1997. 
 
 An NSCN (I-M) spokesperson said on Friday, “We shall no longer accept any policy to further divide the Naga family in the form of artificial boundary fencing between India and Myanmar. The Nagas will defend their ancestral land at all costs.” He added, “The NSCN seriously viewed that overriding and ignoring the will and interests of the people may give rise to an unfavourable situation with heavy consequences and the sole responsibility shall be borne by both India and Myanmar.”
 
 The spokesperson said his organization engaged in “in political talks with the government of India leading to the signing of the framework agreement” in response to the people’s “wish for peace”. (The framework agreement was signed between the two sides at the residence of the Prime Minister in 2015.) He added that when the two sides are “on the verge of a final solution,” the motive behind the construction of artificial fencing along the Naga areas is “highly questionable and unacceptable”. He said, “The Naga people have the right to maintain and protect their territory, identity and social and political institutions.”
 
 The four northeastern states share a 1,643-km border with Myanmar. The NSCN (I-M) describes the Naga-inhabited areas of Myanmar as “eastern Nagaland”. Its demand for what it calls ‘Nagalim’ (Greater Nagaland) includes Nagaland, the Naga areas of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Assam and Myanmar. It considers any fencing along the India-Myanmar border a “rejection” of the existence of “eastern Nagaland”.
 
 The Centre has obtained the clearance of the wildlife and forest departments to begin work on fencing. The Union home ministry has paid Rs 5.03 crore to the Manipur chief conservator of forests for “compensatory afforestation”. A ministry source said, “Reconnaissance Survey and Trace Cut (RSTC) work between border pillars no 79 and 81 has been completed. Work on border fencing has been started by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).” Assam Rifles personnel have been deployed to check cross-border insurgency.
 
 
