Sixty-eight candidates who had applied for a job with the   (ISRO) were   just minutes before they could take the  ,   at the   on Wednesday. The BE and BTech graduates, who had received call letters for the test, claimed the space agency disqualified them for being   for the job. While the candidates claimed   had not mentioned the criteria in its recruitment ad, the space agency officials said that the criteria is clearly mentioned in the ‘frequently asked questions’ section of their website.

 The barred candidates have now threatened to take the matter to court. Around 400 candidates had received call letters to take the skill test held at a city college on SG Highway on Wednesday to fill 185 vacancies in the four ISRO centres in the country. As part of the recruitment process, a candidate is required to appear for a written test. If he/she is successful in that, he is called for a skill test . Manoj Kumar, a BTech graduate who had come down from Delhi, said, “ISRO had raised no objection when I had appeared for the written exam. They even sent me a call letter to take skill test. Now, all of a sudden I am not the right fit for the vacant posts? It is ridiculous.”
 
 Another candidate from Nagpur Dipak Mahaja, who is a BE graduate, wondered why ISRO had failed to vet the application beforehand. “I came all the way from Nagpur just for this test. But ISRO disqualifies me just minutes before the test is to begin. Their recruitment advertisement didn’t state that BE and Btech graduates are not eligible. The agency should act responsibly.” ISRO, in their January 2016 advertisement had sought applications for 154 junior personal assistants, four stenographers and 27 assistants. Specifying the educational qualification of the applicant, the advert read, ‘Graduation in Arts/Commerce/ Management/ Science/ Computer Applications with First Class, as declared by the University.’
 
 Akshay Pathrav, a BE graduate from Nagpur said, “It is disappointing to realize we will not get the job despite having cleared the written test. When the ad said any graduates, how can they change the criteria now? It is my decision whether I want to work for the administrative wing or the engineering wing. If I had cleared the test, how would my qualification have hindered my ability to work?”
 
 
 
 Controller of Space Application Centre (SAC) Ahmedabad, Piyush Verma explained that the recruitment was for the administrative jobs and engineers were not the right fit for the job. Verma said, “The posts for which the recruitments are being held is not meant for engineers. This is clearly stated in our frequently asked question section of ISRO website.” He further elaborated that the space agency preferred to recruit candidates who best fit the job profile. “We want engineers to be part of the engineering team, where their abilities will be better utilized.
 
 This is why, we do not allow engineers to apply for administrative posts.” But challenging Verma’s explanation, an applicant Vikas Dudi from Delhi, said, “If we are not the correct fit, why did ISRO issue us call letter? We will approach the courts and bring a stay on this recruitment which is not being conducted properly.” The group of 68 rejected candidates have formed a social media group to stay in touch and take the fight forward.
 
