BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader and  ,  , has said IPS   appears an upright officer and he is happy that Tiwari has been posted as Chhindwara district   (SP).

 After transfer from Katni on January 9 for investigating role of some influential leaders of the BJP for their alleged link to Rs 500-crore hawala racket, the 2010 batch   took charge as the SP Chhindrwara a fortnight ago.
 
 He shot to limelight after that and residents of Katni even took to streets demanding cancellation of his transfer order, but it did not happen. Tiwari took charge as the Chhindrwara SP and got down to serious policing in his new posting.
 
 TOI visited Chhindwara and did a reality check of how things have changed ever since Tiwari took over as the SP. Well aware of no-nonsense attitude of young IPS officer, many have fallen in line. And his presence and directives appear to have done the trick.
 
 Dhabas and road side eateries, dotting roads even 25 km even before Chhindwara city, have mended their ways. “Things changed from last fortnight and police are now strict as result of which we have stopped serving liquor,” said Pappu, a dhaba owner.
 
 Chhindwara city shuts by 11.30 pm and people now find it difficult to find a paan shop open in the busiest and main city areas. “I came here to attend a marriage. For half an hour, I could not find even a single paan shop open," said Sanjay Nagaich. 
 
 TOI spoke to senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on IPS officer’s transfer to his constituency. The former Union minister said he is aware of what happened in Katni and his transfer.
 
 Tiwari, who now appears to maintain a low profile and concentrate on his work, did not say much. “I am doing my job and I do not want to speak much on any issue. The priority is to maintain law and order in the town and people should feel safe and secure on streets.” 
 
 Tiwari issued a circular warning strict action against SHOs if anyone working under them gets caught taking bribe. Sources say the circular was not to the liking of state’s home minister.
 
 Tiwari initiated a crackdown against illegal liquor and seized a consignment of liquor in Chhindwara. However, he was reportedly asked to stay off the case. Additional district magistrate in Chhindwara sent a notice asking him to hand over probe to the excise department. 
 
