CHANDIGARH: As part of the drive to promote and provide support to children of economically weaker sections who have dropped out of school and are otherwise lagging behind, city-based NGO, Vatsal Chaya has started centres under the programme, ‘Asha Kiran’. The programme, which is part of a larger initiative by  , will benefit nearly 1,000 poor children. It was launched by social activist Kailash Satyarthi in 2016.

 The larger drive is aimed at reaching one lakh children every year. The Chandigarh programme, which was launched by local MP  , includes community outreach and active parental engagement to ensure optimum participation and attendance.
 
 “Chandigarh has 20% people living below poverty line. Most of them are migrant labourers who are casual about their children's education, take frequent trips to their native village and fall behind from required class levels. Dropping out due erratic attendance is very common,” said Sangita Vardhan, founder and chairperson of the NGO.
 
 She said support will be need-based, in accordance with the deficit of the child - comprising school readiness, age appropriate and remedial teaching and co-curricular skills. 
 
 “Support will be continued after mainstreaming to assist retention and integration. We will try to infuse teaching aids, library habits, innovative and creative activities so that children and families who are not firmly committed to schooling are enabled,” she said.
 
 The programme will be implemented through two centers in  , one in Sector 28, 1 in Colony number 4, one in Sector 15, one in Snehalaya and one in Sector 8.
 
 The area-wise break-up is largest from Dhanas with 650 children. Colony Number 4 and Sector 28 have 200 children, there are a few from a construction site in Sector 3 and there are children from sectors 8 and 9, who are not enrolled. Some are from Snehalaya.
 
 The children have been identified through mapping and after discussions with heads, trained graduate field workers, supervisors and co-curricular teaching.
 
 Around 800 children were present at the launch of the programme on Saturday, when they saw the Open Hand for the first time. Addressing the gathering, Kher said children should learn in a joyful, creative and interesting manner.
 
 
