PUNE: Lieutenant General D B Shekatkar (retired), heading the 11-member committee constituted for the enhancement of combat capabilities of the  , has recommended to the government to not to reduce its “combat strength” at a time the country is facing hostility from  .

 Defence minister   had constituted the committee in May 2016. The panel submitted its 550-page report to the government recently. The defence minister is evaluating the report, on the basis of which changes will take place in the armed forces.
 
 Top defence sources stated the committee has taken an overall view of the emerging security environment in the   region and cross-border hostilities from Pakistan in the recent past.
 
 The committee, it is learnt, has specifically stated that strengthening of combat potential of armed forces was paramount and hence there was no scope for reducing its strength. However, with the help of technology upgradation, manpower can be reduced in the near future.
 
 The sources stated that the committee had suggested reorientation of training facilities so as to save defence expenditure.
 
 “These structural changes will help the government save about Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 crore,” a source said, adding that this savings should be utilized by the respective forces for its modernization.
 
 The committee also recommended that the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) be made a single-point military adviser to the defence minister on military matters.
 
 “The CDS should have authority over the three chiefs but the chiefs are responsible for the functioning of the three forces,” the sources added.
 
 Shekatkar refused to comment on the committee’s report, but told TOI that India must realign its war philosophy to meet contemporary challenges in the 21st century.
 
 “Pakistan has adopted Jihadi philosophy of war. China is combining philosophy of people’s war with conventional war. Therefore, India needs to change its outlook towards war,” Shekatkar said.
 
 Incidentally, India is not the first country to trim its armed forces and improve the teeth-to-tail ratio (a military term that refers to the amount of military personnel (tail) it takes to supply and support each combat soldier (tooth). In the last one-and-a-half decades, all major armed forces in the world have carried out the exercise of trimming its workforce.
 
 Former army chief VP Malik welcomed the government’s move. “All major armed forces of the world have carried out this exercise and made deep cuts in manpower. So, India can also resort to this method of saving defence expenditure, which can be effectively utilized for technology upgradation,” he told TOI.
 
 The Indian army is the third largest in the world with over 38,000 officers and 11.38 lakh soldiers.
 
 
