MUMBAI: Slamming   for resorting to mass leave to   against recent assaults by patients’ relatives, the Bombay high court asked them to   and stay at home if they are so scared. 

 With doctors not resuming work for a second consecutive day in the state, a bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni on Tuesday said they cannot behave like common workers and go on strike. “It is a shame on the profession if doctors go on   like factory men. They are unfit to be doctors then,” said the chief justice.
 
 Meanwhile, at a meeting later in the day with members of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), the HC-appointed Justice V C Daga Committee asked doctors to resume work immediately, warning them that it could otherwise attract contempt.
 
 Around 4,000 resident doctors have been off work since Monday following attacks, mainly in Dhule, and at Sion Hospital in Mumbai. They are demanding better security at all government and civic hospitals.
 
 An activist, Afaq Mandaviya, who had filed a PIL against a strike called by MARD last year, on Tuesday sought a court hearing on the issue of frequent strikes by doctors. His advocate, Datta Mane, said 58 patients have died from Monday onwards at state and civic hospitals, implying that some of those deaths could have at least been deferred with medical attention. The ongoing strike is in violation of an undertaking given by MARD last year, he said. 
 
 The bench directed MARD to file an affidavit to clarify their stance after their advocate, Prashant Pophale, said members were not on strike and nor had the association called one. He said individual doctors had gone on leave themselves.
 
 The bench said, “In that case… every individual doctor who participates in such mass protests would attract action for contempt of court. You cannot say that unless security is provided you will not work. Then you resign… Doctors have to be compassionate towards patients. One cannot compromise on that.”
 
 Dr Suleman Merchant, dean of Sion Hospital, was in court and later said, “We will ensure that poor patients do no suffer and at the same time better security is provided to doctors as their safety too cannot be compromised.”
 
 Last September, the   had observed that doctors in state and civic hospitals work without adequate security. It ordered sufficient armed security, including private guards, if necessary, at each such hospital.
 
 The HC will continue hearing the matter on Wednesday.
 
 
