GURUGRAM: The Congress, which has decided not to contest polls on its party symbol, will support independent   in around 20 of 35 wards in an attempt to counter BJP in  .   veteran and former power minister   released the first list of 10 independent candidates, to whom the Congress will extend support, on Sunday. The second list of candidates is likely to be released on September 19, sources said.

 “After electing BJP in the state, the people of Haryana are feeling cheated. And, therefore the Congress, which is not contesting polls, has decided to support strong independent candidates who are likely to defeat their rivals," Yadav told TOI. 
 
 In a scathing attack on BJP for “poor law and order situation" and “lack of development" in Gurgaon, he said the rising crime graph and price hike after implementation of GST had been giving sleepless nights to the people. “The BJP government in the state has failed to fulfill promises made by the party, be it public transport, Metro connectivity or making Gurgaon a smart city," he said, adding that was an internal rift with BJP as the party had to shunt 24 people who were contesting as independent candidates after they failed to get ticket for municipal polls. 
 
 The independent candidates, who sought support from the Congress, are Parveen Yadav from ward 4, Naresh Sehrawat from ward 6, Pramila Kablana from ward 9, Seema Pahuja from ward 15, Rajni Sahani from ward 17, Pradeep Jaildar from ward 28, Alka Dalal from ward 29, Manju Sharma from ward 32, Jagmohan from ward 34 and Pushpa Singh from ward 35.
 
 “If the candidates supported by the Congress get majority and the mayor is elected from among them, the party will ensure effective implementation of GMDA," Yadav said. He also said the party would provide better water, electricity and sewage systems in the city, install CCTV cams, and develop multi-level parking to tackle traffic jams in the city. 
 
 Replying to the allegations made by Yadav, BJP spokesperson Raman Malik said the Congress was trying to gain mileage by tarnishing the BJP’s image. “The party is committed towards development and will continue to do so," he added.
 
