New Delhi: Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has written to the Registrar General India, pointing out that the municipal health officers are not issuing birth certificates to juveniles lodged in government-run homes, in violation of a 2015 notification by the Delhi government. It has sought RGI’s intervention to ensure implementation of the order and to bring in a change in the format of birth certicates by introducing a column for “guardian”.

 The October 16, 2015 notification authorises the principal magistrates of the   justice boards and chairpersons of the child welfare committees to verify age and issue birth certificates in respect of delayed birth registration of juveniles.
 
 This notification was issued pursuant to RGI’s April 30 letter, detailing the manner in which this has to be implemented. In its letter to RGI, DCPCR said directions were issued by the state to municipal health officers to issue birth certificates. However, it has “observed that the municipal health officers are not issuing birth certificates on the ground that the birth certificates do not contain column of guardian in the format. It only has the column for father and mother”.
 
 Health officers, according to DCPCR, claim that “in the absence of the column mentioning superintendent of child care institutions and children homes as ‘guardian’ in the format, the certificate cannot be issued”.
 
 DCPCR chairperson Ramesh Negi has also held a meeting on the subject with chairpersons of CWCs and municipal health officers. The commission has sought a modification in the format of birth registration form to include ‘guardian’ in addition to ‘mother and father’ or a clarification, authorising the municipal health officers to incorporate a column in the registration form to add expression guardian in place of father and mother,” the letter states.
 
 In an earlier letter dated April 30, 2015, addressed to chief of registrar of births and deaths, directorate of economics and statistics, RGI had issued detailed directions as to how birth certificates may be issued to children lodged in juvenile homes. RGI’s directions came in the backdrop of a writ petition admitted by the Delhi high court on its own motion through NGO Haq Centre for Child Rights regarding delayed registration of birth of juveniles and issuance of birth certificates to them. 
 
 The state’s department of women and child development and RGI were respondents in the case. The case was disposed of on January 14, 2015 with certain directions after which RGI issued a letter to the chief registrar of births. It not only authorised the principal magistrate of the JJBs and chairpersons of CWCs to issue birth order but set a seven-day deadline for the registrar concerned to ensure issuance of birth certificate after the magistrate’s order. 
 
 It was stated that age verification would be done by the principal magistrate JJB or CWC chairperson on the basis of documentary evidence that may be available or through a medical board.
 
 
