MADURAI: Stating that the grant of dealership/ distributorship by a   in   has to be done in a transparent manner without giving any room for any complaint or grievance, the   of the Madras high court has dismissed an appeal filed by a woman (appellant) against the court’s single judge order leading to cancellation of her LPG dealership given by the   (IOC). The court also directed the IOC to consider the candidature of the petitioner in accordance with the terms and conditions in the advertisement.

 The division bench of Justice T S Sivagnanam and Justice P Velmurugan heard the case. The bench said the fact that the appellant (Kumutha) was a student then was not in dispute and the company from where she produced a service certificate was not functioning as its dealership was terminated. Therefore, the plea of the appellant that she was in employment in the said company was false, the bench said.
 
 “We have not embarked upon an exercise to examine whether the service certificate is bogus or not, but we have gone by the statement of the certificate and found that it was unacceptable and lacks credibility.” 
 
 Unfortunately, the field investigation officers of IOC mechanically submitted a report that the service certificate could not be clarified as the dealership had been terminated. Exercise should have been undertaken to see when the dealership was terminated. There was a clear abdication of the responsibility on the part of the IOC, the bench said.
 
 “It is clear that all the discrepancies pointed out by the petitioner (Banu) has been candidly admitted by the IOC. However, officials of the IOC have attempted to save their skin by giving certain reasons to justify their selection of the appellant. This is wholly unauthorised. If a candidate is found to have not produced the requisite certificates and the certificate could not be verified for its genuinity, there should have been an outright rejection of the application. The exercise adopted by the oil corporation smacks of arbitrariness. Thus the appeal is dismissed,” the bench said.
 
 
