BHUBANESWAR: Sixty-two-year-old   lost her husband 27 years ago. Her days have since been spent juggling work and raising two children as a single parent. Now that her children are grown, settled and busy with their lives, the evenings are quieter for Rath. Looking for a companion, Rath came to the Senior Citizen's  , a match-making event for older women and men, organised by the Ahmedabad-based Anubandh Foundation here, on Sunday. 

 "I have given up my whole life for others. I now want to live for myself. I want to be happy and want someone with me to share my thoughts and feelings for the rest of my life," said Rath. 
 
 Thirty men and women, all above 50 years of age, and their family members participated in the event. It was the first of its kind in the city. 
 
 Among the participants was   who came with his 67-year-old mother to find a companion for her. "I know she is a very strong woman and she has been quite independent all her life and never failed in her duties as a mother. I want to see her happy," said Sambit. 
 
 For Vimla Patel, a 60-year-old retired lecturer from Mumbai, this is familiar ground. Patel has been looking for a partner for the last few years and this was fifth such event which she attended. "I could not marry due to family problems" Patel said. 
 
 The initiative of finding partners for older people was started by   in 2003. So far 8,862 male and 996 female candidates have registered with the foundation. Of them, 114 have married and 22 are in live-in relationships. 
 
 "The response in Bhubaneswar was not very encouraging compared to other bigger cities, but we are happy that people are becoming more open minded," said Patel.
 
 The organisation takes special care to ensure that women are not exploited. "We keep identity proofs, photographs and other details of each participant and also follow the cases after marriage. Property dispute among families is a major problem that couples generally face after remarriage. But nowadays, many youngsters with progressive mindsets are accepting new relationships of their parents," Patel added. 
 
