HARIDWAR: Lekhpal, who is father of  , the   who were killed in an   between a motorbike and car near Haridwar on Thursday night, has in a complaint to the Shyampur police station alleged that his sons did not die in the fire the vehicles caught after the accident, but were murdered. A few eyewitnesses are also reported to have suggested that the youths were deliberately crushed to death by the car driver who fled from the spot. The driver, Anwar, who is resident of Belada village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, was later nabbed by the police. His mental condition is reportedly unstable. Investigation has been initiated and an FIR will be registered in the case, Shyampur police station in charge Pradeep Tomar said. 

 According to police, 33-year-old Anwar, who claimed to have been injured in the accident, was found lying near the bridge over Peeli river on Friday. He fled from the spot to see that the vehicles had caught fire. Later, when he was admitted to the hospital, he behaved abnormally. According to his parents, he was receiving treatment for mental instability from a doctor at Saharanpur. However, as Tomar said, he was normal while driving the car and probably got disturbed due to the accident. "Anwar has been booked under Section 279 of the IPC for rash and fast driving and Section 304 (A) for causing death due to it," he added. 
 
 In the incident that took place late on Thursday night, a complaint was lodged on Saturday. As such, taking the accused into custody without investigation was not possible. Now he will be taken into custody, Tomar told TOI. About reports of eyewitnesses claiming that the youngsters were deliberately killed by the driver, the inspector said "the case has been registered following investigations." However, a number of questions about the case allegedly remain unanswered. How is it that there were no people to see the vehicles caught in flames on a busy highway like Haridwar-Nazibabad? It is said that the youths left home at about 9.00 p.m. to search for a girl missing from a hotel near their house. In the search, they went towards the highway. If they met with the accident after 10.30 p.m., where were they for over an hour, as the highway is hardly a kilometre away from the village? Doubts about the accident theory arise also due to reports that the body of Neeraj was found lying at quite at a distance from the motorbike. 
 
