PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body will soon appoint full-time staff at the   in Akurdi to ensure better running as well as prevent thefts and other untoward incidents.

 Tanaji Shinde, additional commissioner of  , said, “We have appointed a curator and we’ll be appointing more employees, including a biologist and zookeepers, for better running of the facility.”
 
 In November 2016, a number of snake deaths had brought the zoo under scrutiny. Also, four crocodiles had died and another was stolen from the zoo in the same month. PCMC has appointed a curator for the zoo. It will also appoint four zookeepers and one veterinary officer soon.
 
 Recently, civic chief Dinesh Waghmare ordered a departmental inquiry against veterinary officer Satish Gore in the snake death incident.
 
 The incident highlighted the inadequate security and staff at the zoo. The facility’s compound wall was low and needed to be improved since the zoo is surrounded by residential buildings.
 
  has been appointed as curator of zoo. He said, “The number of security guards has been increased from two to six. Four zookeepers are expected to be appointed to handle animals, perform daily maintenance, cleaning and feeding of animals as well as assist the veterinary doctor to treat animals.”
 
 Sawant further said, “The Central Zoo Authority of India had approved a master plan to redevelop the zoo in 2015. PCMC has approved the redevelopment of the zoo at an expenditure of around Rs14 crore. In the first phase, the work of constructing a perimeter wall, new entrance gate and administrative block is in progress and around 70percent of the work has been completed as of now.”
 
 According to Sawant, in the second phase, a chillonea section, wetland birds aviary and enclosures for magar (marsh crocodile) and gharials will be constructed. “There will be 12 types of turtles and terrapins in the chillonea section. There will be 30 types of snakes comprising King Cobra, racer, krate, rat snake, boas, russel’s viper and python. The entire project will be completed in two years.”
 
