Kolhapur: The Pune division of Central Railway (CR) has decided to publish a special postal cover of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj in order to recognise his contribution to the Indian Railways, a senior officer said on Monday.

 The visionary late Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj laid down the foundation of railway network in Kolhapur and connected the district with main network way back in 19th century. To recognise his contribution, the railway administration has decided to publish a special postal cover with the Indian Post on May 18.
 
 Talking about the programme, senior divisional commercial manager Pune division Krishnat Patil said, “We have organised a special programme to recognise the contribution of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj to India Railways. We have arranged a function as Kolhapur railway station recently completed 126 years. Along with the function, we have arranged a station beautification programme with the help of local arts school. We implemented a similar experiment in Pune.”
 
 Railway activist and member of Central Railway Users’ Consultative Committee Shivnath Biyani said, “Beautification work will give the station a better look and social messages would help in creating awareness among people on issues like cleanliness, save girl child, among others. Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj was a visionary leader who put Kolhapur on map of India through his path-breaking decisions like reservation for infrastructural works like Kolhapur Miraj track and Radhanagari dam.”
 
 Mohan Shete, member of Pune Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee, said, “Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj laid the foundation of this station on May 1, 1888 and it only took three years for its completion. The first railway journey was between Kolhapur and Miraj on April 20, 1891. Therefore, we celebrate the anniversary on April 20.”
 
 He added, “Shahu Maharaj spent Rs 23.28 lakh on the rail track and railway station. The legendary king built as many as 125 small and big bridges between Kolhapur and Pune. The track between Kolhapur and Miraj converted into broad-gauge in 1971 and first Kolhapur-Mumbai Mahalaxmi express started on May 11, 1971 when Vasantrao Naik was the chief minister of Maharashtra.” 
 
 
