Madurai: Holding that the government has jurisdiction to set aside the resolutions passed by local bodies, the Madras   Madurai bench has dismissed a six-year-old appeal filed by a few traders and trader’s association in Ponamaravathi panchayat in Pudukottai district with regard to rate of property tax in the Ponamaravathi selection grade panchayat. 

 Years ago, the panchayat passed a resolution fixing property tax in its jurisdiction. The government found that the panchayat did not follow the government’s guidelines in fixing the property tax. Accordingly, the municipal administration and water supply secretary passed an order on December 30, 2010 setting aside the panchayat’s resolution. 
 
 Challenging the validity, Nizam Traders’ M Moahamed Abdullah, Sree Murugappa Textiles’ SKS Palaniappan, Sree Durga Jewellery’s PAL Thenappan and the Ponamaravathi Trader’s Association filed a writ petition before the high court bench.
 
 The single judge dismissed their petition on April 8, 2011 holding that the petitioners were unable to pinpoint any irregularity or illegality in the government order. Aggrieved over the single judge’s order they shot an appeal raising a question of government’s jurisdiction over the panchayat’s resolution. 
 
 The division bench comprising Justice T S Sivagnanam and Justice P Velmurugan heard the appeal. 
 
 Interestingly, the panchayat side argued to sustain the government order by saying that after following proper procedures the government passed the order. “The panchayat council in utter disregard to the government guidelines had fixed the property tax and the same was rightly interfered with by the government. Out of 1,144 people, 1,011 had remitted the revised property tax. On account of non-payment of the revised tax, the interest of the panchayat has been grossly affected,” it said.
 
 After hearing, the bench said, “It may be true that the government can’t fix a flat rate for all the properties. But, nevertheless, the government is vested with sufficient power to issue guidelines to the various local bodies with regard to the method and rates, which have to be adopted for fixing the property tax. If this power is not conferred on the government, it may result in haphazard fixation of property tax and each   will proceed to fix the property tax as per heir whims and fancies. ” 
 
 The bench also said that as per the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, the government has been empowered to suspend or cancel any resolution passed, order issued, or licence or permission granted, or prohibit the doing of any act which is about to be done or is being done, if in its opinion such resolution, order, licence, permission or act has not been legally done or in excess of the powers conferred by the Act.
 
 
