CHANDIGARH: The   has taken up the proposal put forward by the three chiefs of India’s armed services to adopt marigold as “flower of remembrance”' of martyred soldiers like flaming red poppies recall bygone soldiers of   nations every year on November 11.

 Marigold has a rich resonance in India’s cultural and social life. It is a flower found across India, not expensive, and blooms throughout the year. Delving on the flowers of remembrance in different cultures, British historian and author AN ‘Tony’ McClenaghan (BEM) has strongly advocated the adoption of marigold by India for the purpose. McClenaghan was in the city under the auspices of   to deliver a presentation on the ‘Contribution of Indian princely states to World War I’.
 
 November 11 marks the day hostilities came to an end in World War I and people and leaders of the West adorn their apparel with poppies to cherish hard-fought freedom and remember the valiant dead. “Poppy’s lineage as a flower of remembrance derives from the World War I battlefield of Flanders in Belgium, which abounds with graves and red blooms. As part of the ‘India Remembers’ project, marigold will similarly serve as a remembrance,” McClenaghan told TOI.
 
 According to director and member-secretary of Delhi-based United Services Institute of India Lt Gen PK Singh (retd), “In order to institutionalize National Day of Remembrance, Centre for Armed Forces Historical Research (CAFHR) is proposing ‘India Remembers’ project that will have as marigold flower its symbol in place of poppy and a National Day of Remembrance or Sainik Smriti Divas, which can coincide with Armed Forces Flag Day held annually on December 7. On that particular day, citizens will be encouraged to identify a serving or retired serviceman or servicewoman and present them with a marigold flower and thank them for their service and sacrifice for the nation, as is the custom prevalent in the United States.”
 
 The matter is being dealt with the ministry of defence. “The idea is to remember our soldiers from exalted levels to the grass roots so that people can honour the soldiers of all wars, whether it be the two world wars or those after Independence or even before all that. India can remember martyred soldiers with poppy in conjunction with Commonwealth nations on November 11 and with marigold on December 7,” CAFHR secretary and editor Squadron Leader Rana TS Chhina (retd) MBE said.
 
 Chhina also said the US was working with the   on a project to remember the sacrifices and toil of the seven lakh men from remote areas of India, who served in the Indian Labour Corps during World War I.
 
