Packaged fortified food, which showed remarkable results in treating children with   (SAM) in Africa, has proved much less effective in a trial conducted in India. This has prompted concerned paediatricians and nutritionists to write a letter to the prime minister cautioning against “quick fixes” of buying commercial products instead of focusing on sustainable measures such as care support for mothers, clean drinking water and food security.

 The letter also criticised the overstating of the “SAM crisis” (children with SAM constitute about 3% of under-five children) when the proportion of children affected by it has been going down steadily from 6.4% to 4.6% to 3.3% by 2011. Even for the trial, of one lakh children screened, just 1.1% had SAM. The experts also warned that a hasty introduction of packaged food ostensibly for eliminating severe   could be exploited by the food industry. 
 
 The study was meant to compare the efficacy of two kinds of ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTF) -- packaged, fortified, energy-dense food – with home-prepared food which was energy-dense and enriched with micronutrients, in treating severe malnutrition at home instead of in a hospital.
 
 It was found that the children fed locally prepared packaged food showed the greatest improvement. But even among these children, only 17% were cured of SAM, while 30% slipped back into it and over 53% continued to have moderate acute malnutrition four months after the monitored daily intake of the special food was stopped.
 
 This was despite all the children in the trial being closely monitored. All were provided free food, fully immunised, given treatment for anaemia, worms and vitamin-A deficiency and treated by physicians or referred to hospital in case of any severe illness. Even transportation and treatment was free. The family of each child in the trial had weekly household visits from trained community health workers to teach about nutrition and hygiene and to record progress. Neighbourhood peer supporters were recruited and paid a daily financial incentive to visit the family eight times a day to help the mothers feed the children.
 
 “The trial has shown that there is no statistically significant difference in the recovery rates of children given home-cooked food and commercial factory-produced packaged food. Even in the locally prepared RUTF, the gains seem to dwindle and children relapse once the treatment phase is over. The trial, in fact, support ours position that women need support to feed their children especially if the children are severely malnourished. We have seen more sustainable and equally good results using local foods if the mothers are provided care and support for supervised feeding. That’s what this paper shows too,” said Dr Vandana Prasad, a community paediatrician and public health professional who is one of the signatories of the letter to the PM. 
 
 The trial involved 906 children from 6 to 59 months identified to be suffering from SAM but without any other illness. They were from diverse low-income rural and urban households in Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.
 
 Studies in Africa had shown that most children with SAM recovered within two months of starting RUTF. However, in the Indian trial, recovery rates were low at the end of two months, forcing them to extend the trial by another two months and to bring in peer supporters to help the mother feed the child.
 
 “The important ingredients for addressing this malady (severe malnutrition) in a sustainable manner include food security; protecting, promoting and supporting breastfeeding and optimal complementary feeding; preventing early child bearing; strengthening preventive and curative health systems, especially the capacity of frontline workers; enhancing literacy; and improving water supply and sanitation,” stated the letter to the PM. 
 
