PONDA: With the transplanting of the two corneal tissues harvested from a   journalist, who died a week ago, the tiny state of Goa has helped 48 Maharshtrians gain sight since 2012. 

 The journalist’s tissues were successfully donated to two recipients, one at Pune and the other at Nashik, on Wednesday. H V Desai Eye Hospital, Pune and Pravara Medical College, Nashik performed the respective corneal grafting, eye bank coordinator at the Desai Hospital, Satish Kurpad said.
 
 Journalist with a vernacular daily, Vasu Naik, 48, succumbed to a heart ailment at Goa medical college and hospital (GMC) on Saturday and his wife,  , pledged his eyes soon after. 
 
 An expert team from the college’s ophthalmic department harvested his corneas and dispatched the tissues to the Desai Hospital, which retained one tissue and sent the other to the Nashik hospital to cater an urgent need for transplant there.
 
 Vasu’s corneas were transplanted after four days of harvesting. Explaining the time-lapse, Kurpad said donated tissues have to pass through several stages of screening and grading before distribution can happen.
 
  “The   of a 70-year-old cannot be transplanted to a child. Thus, we have to grade available tissues before distribution to recipients,” Kurpad said.
 
 Records maintained by the Rotary Eye Bank of Goa at GMC have revealed that so far 30 people, including Naik, have donated corneas. The eye bank, started at the Vrundavan Hospital in   on November 8, 2006, was shifted to the GMC on April 1, 2013.
 
 “Of the 60 corneas, 48 tissues were supplied to   through the Desai Eye Hospital and remaining 12 were preserved for GMC’s medical students to study. The GMC has, however, received just two tissues from Bengaluru to conduct transplantation at the GMC in 2015,” GMC eye bank coordinator Santosh Boragi said.
 
 Though Maharashtra receives tissues from across the nation, it has an exceptional condition that the tissues harvested from their areas cannot be sent to other states, said the Desai Hospital official.
 
