LUCKNOW: After Rashtriya Ulama Council, it was the turn of   of Delhi  , Syed Ahmad Bukhari, to come out in open support of the Bahujan Samaj Party on Thursday. Speaking to reporters in Lucknow,   said that it was high time for the minorities to support a party which could at least provide a better law and order situation and keep communal forces at bay in the state. “In my views, it is   which is capable of doing it,” said Bukhari, barely two days before the first phase of polling takes places in the communally sensitive west UP.

 Slamming the ruling Samajwadi Party for ignoring the interests of Muslims, Bukhari said that the minority felt cheated and should therefore vote out the ruling party. He said that though   voted in favour of Yadavs, the latter could not transfer their votes in favour of Muslim candidates. He also criticised UP chief minister   Yadav for insulting his father and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. “Jo apne baap ka nahi ho saka...wo pradesh ka kya hoga,” he said.
 
 Bukhari, who had supported the SP in 2012 assembly elections, said that Akhilesh, especially, did nothing for the Muslims. “Mulayam Singh ji himself has been saying this from the public platform that Akhilesh don't listen to him,” said Bukhari.
 
 Significantly, Bukhari's son-in-law, Omar Ali Khan, had contested the 2012 assembly elections on SP ticket from Saharanpur's Behat assembly seat but lost. Later. Omar got elected to UP legislative council as an SP candidate. Bukhari has also been in the news for his spat with senior cabinet minister Azam Khan.
 
 The Imam said that it was his `personal appeal' to support BSP. ``Mayawati has been promising of support for the Muslims. I hope she would abide by it. At least, her governance ensures a robust law and order in the state,” she said.
 
 Reacting to the Imam's support, Mayawati, in a statement said, that her party was thankful to the religious leaders for giving their support. “This will ensure formation of BSP government in the state and return of law and order and proper development,'' she said. Mayawati has been aggressively wooing the minorities to form a Dalit-Muslim combination to reach the magic voter share of 30%, which is enough for a party to form the government in UP. 
 
 
