CHENNAI: A year ago,   visited some   in Trichy to check the functioning of the ecological sanitation (eco-san) toilets in those villages. The journey turned out to be an eye-opener for the young architect when she learned more about today’s defective garbage and drainage disposal system in the city and also found solutions to them.

 Priya’s experience was recorded in a documentary, focusing on the importance of having toilets without water. Her one-hour-long film, ‘Meel’, shows how human faecal matter could be converted into manure by adding a handful of ash. Priya released the trailer of the documentary a week ago, which shows how eco-san toilets are functioning successfully in Musiri, a village in Trichy. “Human faecal matter contains 80% of water and 20% solid. You add a handful of ash to it and 80% of it will be absorbed by the ash. It will be turned into manure soon. The point is that the eco-san toilets need very less water. So less water, less pollution,” she said. “Our underground drainage system needs a minimum of 40 liters per day per urinal for it to work. So it’s high time we stopped polluting the earth by producing excessive drainage water,” said Priya, who has also directed the film.
 
 Being an architect, Priya believes that urban and town planners play an important role. “It becomes very important that a city is consciously planned with sound design solutions for services such as drainage and waste disposal methods,” she said.
 
 The narrative is not only restricted to eco-san toilets and looks at various aspects of garbage and drainage disposal and its drawbacks. Priya took almost a year to finish shooting, travelling across Tamil Nadu and speaking to manual scavengers suffering from health problems due to their close proximity to drains. Besides TN, she also covered cities like Bengaluru and Hyderabad, and she plans to explore the situation in Delhi and Ladakh too.
 
 Shot in Tamil and English, ‘Meel’ will be released in the end of August. “We are into the post-production stage of the documentary. We are planning to release the documentary in the city in the end of August. It will be screened across the country so that more people become aware of the choices and options that we have at hand as solutions for sustainable waste disposal,” she said.
 
 However, the crew is excited to to screen the documentary in as many schools as it can. “We strongly believe that any kind of change, however small, in society can only begin from children, so we plan to screen the documentary across schools. We also aim to achieve policy level changes on these sustainable solutions, otherwise we won’t be able to see a massive change at a society or community level,” said Priya.
 
 
