NAGPUR: The recent developments in the   (NU) generated high drama during a public lecture organized by BP National Institute of Social Work, Hanuman Nagar, when senior academician   launched a scathing attack on Pro-VC  , who presided over the function, and vice chancellor SP Kane on Monday.

 Sources informed TOI that Mishra came down heavily on Yeole and made direct references to the latter’s decision regarding PhD. Mishra also didn’t spare Kane and slammed him for handing over additional charge of the four deans as per the new varsity Act. 
 
 Sources said that Yeole was allegedly taking credit of the UGC clarification on PhD row while it was Mishra who had red-flagged the decision.
 
 “You are talking about part-time PhD. In the name of quality, the administration can’t put unreasonable restriction. What happened to your restriction when the UGC clarified,” Mishra told TOI. He was referring to the three-year leave condition for the in-service PhD aspirants notified by NU.
 
 Mishra added, “Education is a fundamental right. University officers are salaried and therefore governed by code of conduct and public accountability.”
 
 On the appointment of four deans, Mishra said, “If there is a provision for additional charge, will you give it to a peon?”
 
 The NU had nominated the deans and granted additional charge to former pro-VC Maheshkumar  , former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande,   and Rajendra Kakde. 
 
 Sources said Mishra is unhappy with Yenkie and Kakde’s appointment. While Yenkie is continuing because of HC stay on government’s decision on retirement age of 60 years, a senior was bypassed in Kakde case.
 
 “Extensions are granted for teaching not for holding additional charges,” Mishra said.
 
 The institute had invited the local media for the lecture by Mishra on ‘Maharashtra Universities Act 2016: Greater Autonomy and functioning’ but the event went unreported since the invitations were sent on the Monday morning.
 
 Such was the impact of Mishra’s fiery speech that the institute even tried to distance itself from the episode. Principal Sanjay Tulankar didn’t specify why they didn’t issue a press note, that is a common practice among educational institutes for such lectures.
 
