KOLKATA: A 30-year-old woman, mother of a two-month-old child, was allegedly molested and assaulted by a group of men inside a posh nightclub on  . Her husband was also beaten up when he tried to save her. 

 The accused, all of whom belong to extremely influential business families, were “unhappy” that the woman had dared to encroach “on the private space that they had booked inside the club”.
 
 The incident was reported in the early hours of Sunday. Though police have lodged a case based on the woman’s complaint, they are yet to make any arrest.
 
 According to officials at  , at least two of the accused identified from CCTV footage belong to Delhi-based industrialist families dealing in real estate and may now be hiding in the national capital. The third is an established businessman from Alipore. The assaulted couple, too, are residents of Alipore, one of the poshest residential areas of the city. 
 
 The incident brings back memories of the 2012 Park Street gang rape when   was sexually assaulted inside a car by four men she had met at a nightclub.
 
 According to the police complaint, the woman and her husband had gone to visit some friends at another nightclub on Saturday night and decided to drop in at M   around 1am to catch up with some common friends.
 
 The nightclub, which opened its doors in 2014, is extremely popular with the city’s young crowd. 
 
 In her complaint, the woman said, “There was a reserved space where a group of people were partying. We spotted our common friends there and walked towards that side. It was then that this businessman (from Alipore) got enraged. I could identify him but before I could begin speaking, he asked me why I had dared to enter his private space. He was severely drunk and began touching me inappropriately. He molested me in front of others and tried to push me down to the floor. Even after I fell, he continued hitting me over and over again. Three others, whom I could not identity, formed a circle.” 
 
 She added, “My husband tried to save me but he was hit and one tried to throttle him with his gold chain.... The pub bouncers and the owner came to my rescue. Even as the accused fled, one of them threatened me to face the consequences.” The woman claimed on Monday she got calls from the families of the accused to withdraw the case. “I will pursue the case so that they do not take another woman for granted,” said the homemaker. 
 
 The   police said they are identifying the accused, two of whom are visible in the CCTV footage. “We are finding out how the two knew each other,” said JCP (crime) Vishal Garg.
 
 M Bar issued a statement on Monday: “In the incident around 1.30am, a couple invited to a private table to meet some friends got into an altercation with some others part of the same table. The altercation broke out into a fight, leading to a physical assault on the modesty of the woman. We condemn a physical assault of any sorts on any individual and adopt a complete no-tolerance policy. No individual, irrespective of their socio-economic background, is entitled to physically abuse another individual.... When the modesty of a woman is assaulted, it is not only derogatory but completely unacceptable.” 
 
 The woman lauded the nightclub: “The owner and bouncer came to my aid.”
 
