NEW DELHI: For a third straight year, Kings XI Punjab have a new captain. That is the kind of uncertainty that is surrounding the team. After  , who led them during that fabulous run in 2014,   have plummeted with a huge thud, finishing the last two editions at the bottom of the pile. This year, another Australian in   is back in charge, but him taking KXIP to the same heights as Bailey depends on how well he can fill that role.
 
 Maxwell's appointment ahead of international captains like   and Darren Sammy remains somewhat questionable, but because he has become an integral part of the side since joining them in 2014, the management perhaps has that belief. Lack of experience in captaincy might be an issue but the presence of Morgan, Sammy and David Miller can assist Maxwell if need be.
 
 A last minute injury blow to Murali Vijay has ruled him out of IPL, leaving a void at the top of the order. The management must hope that the others rally to get their   campaign off the ground and running. 
  
 
  
 Maxwell had a rather underwhelming   last year, scoring 179 runs across 11 games and that was one of the biggest reasons for KXIP bagging the wooden spoon. However, with runs behind him - a century against India in the third Test at Ranchi and a swashbuckling 145 not out against Sri Lanka last September - Maxwell seemed to be batting at his best. Furthermore, being entrusted the responsibility leading the side, expect some the 'Big Show' to score big.
  
 
 
  
 The franchise appointed Sehwag the head of cricket operations and strategy after Sanjay Bangar stepped down from the post of coach last year. Hence, it is likely that Sehwag will have a greater say in coaching and decision-making of the team. How the Sehwag-Maxwell combination operates will be intriguing to say the least. Sehwag played his cricket the same manner as Maxwell, and they will be hoping that that aggressive attitude rubs on the team.
  
 
  Glenn Maxwell (capt), Manan Vohra, Axar Patel, David Miller, Gurkeerat Singh Mann, Anureet Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Shaun Marsh, Wriddhiman Saha, Nikhil Naik, Mohit Sharma, Marcus Stoinis, KC Cariappa, Armaan Jaffer, Pardeep Sahu, Swapnil Singh, Hashim Amla, Varun Aaron, Eoin Morgan, Matt Henry, Rahul Tewatia, Martin Guptill, Darren Sammy, Rinku Singh, T Natarajan
  
 
 1 Manan Vohra, 2 Shaun Marsh, 3 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 4 Glenn Maxwell, 5 David Miller, 6 Gurkeerat Mann, 7 Marcus Stoinis, 8 Axar Patel, 9 Mohit Sharma, 10 Sandeep Sharma, 11 T Natarajan
  
 
 In Vijay's absence, the underperforming Manan Vohra will need to step up. The side will be buoyed by the form of Wriddhiman Saha and Australian allrounder Marcus Stoinis, who smashed his way into the global audience's conscious by hitting a remarkable 146* from 117 balls in an ODI against New Zealand. As mentioned, Miller's role will not just be to support Maxwell in decision making; he has runs to show and will need to rediscover that touch which dominated IPL in 2013 and 2014. 
 
 To bolster the bowling, KXIP have brought in T Natarajan, who grabbed eyeballs with his quick-arm whippy action during the Tamil Nadu Premier League, and Varun Aaron who provides them the pace option to aid the incisive Mohit Sharma. The left-arm spin of Axar Patel could have quite an impact on the slow wicket of Indore's Holkar Stadium, KXIP's new home ground.
 
 
  Runner up in 2014, and semi-finalists in the inaugural edition, Barring these, KXIP have never even qualified for the Playoffs.
  
 
  Every year KXIP boast a quality side on paper but end up underperforming. This year is no different. But with an in-form captain at helm, thing might just get better for them this year. That KXIP have quite a few new entrants, figuring the best fit early will be key, especially with so many big foreign names available. Should KXIP get this sorted, they are very capable of pulling off a 2014 repeat.
  
 
  vs. Rising Pune Supergiant (Home), April 10: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Home), April 13: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Away), April 15: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Away), April 17: vs. Sunrisers Hyderabad (Away), April 20: vs. Mumbai Indians (Home), April 23: vs. Gujarat Lions (Away), April 28: vs. Sunrisers Hyderabad (Home), April 30: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Home), May 05: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Away), May 07: vs. Gujarat Lions (Home), May 09: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Home), May 11: vs. Mumbai Indians (Away), May 14: vs. Rising Pune Supergiant (Away)
 
