Nagpur: City police commissioner K Venkatesh has offered his force’s assistance in conducting security audit for schools in wake of the tragic murder of a schoolboy in Gurugram. On Tuesday, CBSE had asked all affiliated schools to complete a security audit by cops and submit a report about it within two months. Venkatesh’s statements comes as a major relief for schools who were unsure if cops would even entertain a request to conduct security audits of their premises. Speaking to TOI, the city’s top cop said, “In the next few days, we will formalize by speaking with all stakeholders. DCPs and local police stations will get involved with schools in their jurisdiction and take the process forward.” Reena Dargan, officer bearer of the CBSE schools’ group, Nagpur Sahodaya Schools Complex, said, “This will be very helpful as we will be able to understand what is required of schools. Safety of children has always been the top priority of every school and this coordination with city police will ensure that we cover up the blind spots as well.” Even state board schools are preparing themselves for the major exercise, even though no directives have come from the local education department yet. Zaffar Khan, president of Nagpur Headmasters Charitable Roundtable said, “After the Ryan incident, we held a seminar on safety of children in which counsellors and police officials were invited to speak. I am sure that together, both schools and city cops can do a lot more for making the premises safe for every child.” Khan, who is also office bearer of the Urdu Schools Association, said hundreds of schools under both the banners will cooperate with the police.  For CBSE schools, it’s a race against time as their board has given them December 12 deadline to finish the audits. While the cops will take care of inspecting premises and verification of staff, schools worry about the second directive from CBSE about psychometric evaluation. A principal, who did not wish to be named said, “I spoke with the school counsellor who said there are multiple psychometric tests that can be done and frankly we are not sure which one to go through with. We are trying to get more clarity from CBSE and maybe even the cops could help narrow down the parameters.” School principals are coordinating with each other and sharing ideas on how they could ramp up the security in school and even see where they are missing out. Praveen Tiwari, trustee of Central India Public School said, “We have identified blind spots in the coverage from almost 70 CCTV cameras and that is being rectified. We also held multiple meetings with teaching staff and have sent notices to parents about safety guidelines and put maids on duty outside washrooms.” K Balaji, principal of Delhi Public School (Kamptee Road) said, “We have started installing cameras in our buses as well and it’s something which we started before the Ryan incident. I am trying put in a tracking system in students’ ID cards, so that, they can be tracked on campus with our Wi-Fi set up.” 