Debutant director Ranjit Tiwari’s 'Lucknow Central' revolves around Kishen Mohan Girhotra, an aspiring singer from Moradabad, who lands in jail after being accused of murder. While he awaits his trial in the High Court, he forms a band within the jail and hatches an escape plan. The film, inspired by  , a band from the asli   Jail’s Adarsh wing, tries to evoke a sense of hope in a tense situation, which is encapsulated in the dialogue, ‘Bande qaid hote hain, sapne nahin.’ 

 The movie was shot over a few months on a Mumbai film studio set, where Lucknow Central Prison was recreated. It took the team a few weeks to create the set, spread over two acres of land. 
 
 Director Ranjit Tiwari says, “Three years ago, I had read an article about an annual-day programme-cum-music-competition, which was started by the Uttar Pradesh government for jail inmates’ reformation. Six or seven central jails in Uttar Pradesh, including the ones at Varanasi, Naini and Bareilly, participate in the contest. The concept floored me and I discussed it with Nikkhil Advani, who I was assisting at that time. Eventually, he and Farhan (Akhtar) joined hands for the project.”
 
 Farhan adds, “I learnt a lot about jails and prisoners’ lives through this movie. Getting into Kishen’s character wasn’t easy, but the research and preparation helped tremendously. After that, I even met the members of Healing Hearts, who perform at weddings. They’re essentially a brass band that fulfilled their dreams through music. We’ve tried to recreate that emotion in the movie. When you’ve been in prison for long, it’s only hope and aspirations that can keep you going.”
 
  was cast as Gayatri Kashyap, an aggressive, headstrong NGO worker, who works as a criminal reformer. She’s compelled to form a band of prisoners for a competition held in the dreaded  , where her path crosses with Kishen’s. Diana, reliving her experience of playing the part, says, “For my role, I had to understand the lives of prisoners and jail authorities. In addition to the preparation and research that Ranjit shared with me, inputs from Nikkhil’s wife, Suparna, who is associated with an NGO, helped me fill a few gaps.”
 
 Farhan’s character also befriends four other inmates — the obnoxiously straight-forward Dikkat Ansari (Inaamullhaq), opportunist Victor Chattopadhyay (Deepak Dobriyal), the aged Purushottam Pandit (Rajesh Sharma) and the overtly emotional Parminder Trehan ( ), whom he cajoles to join the band.
 
 The film also features Ronit Roy as jail superintendent Raja Shrivastava, who doesn’t believe in reforms. His belief is, once a criminal, always a criminal. The actor says, “Nikhil Advani and   lent their experiences, while Ranjit Tiwari added a dash of youth and newness to the process. However, it was Diana who surprised all of us with how much she has grown as an actor. Lucknow Central was a wonderful experience.”
 
 
 
