KOLKATA: The Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) has served a notice to Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI) to lift its ban on a production house. After shooting of a film by the production house -Eskay Movies -was stalled in London, the FCTWEI has now stalled the Kolkata shooting of another film from this production house. The FCTWEI has been told to lift the ban by  . If that doesn’t happen, EIMPA chairman wants to protest the “highhandedness” of FCTWEI and request the chief minister to settle the issue. Aparna Ghatak, the general secretary of FCTWEI, refused to comment on the issue when TOI called her up.   evening, a meeting by the Joint Conciliation Committee (JCC) was held at the EIMPA office. After attending this meeting, Bimal Dey, general secretary of Eastern India Motion Pictures Directors Association, said, “We are part of FCTWEI but this move to stall shooting is illegal. This kind of an approach by FCTWEI to stall shooting at the drop of a hat is driving away small producers from investing in Bengali cinema. This is tarnishing Bengal’s image. Everyone of us is jointly protesting this move. We want FCTWEI to change their method of work.” Himanshu Dhanuka, director, Eskay Movies, told TOI that on voicing against the harassment, FCTWEI representatives did not allow the technicians to work with Eskay Movies any further. “They have called for a ban against us. This is a big conspiracy and is beyond the handling powers of individual producers. And we, being such old producers, are facing these problems,” Dhanuka said. In August 2015, shooting of his production titled ‘Ashiqui’ was stalled in the UK for a day. “That was because two technicians didn’t get their visa and hence, didn’t travel to the UK. The loss was Rs 10 lakh. In 2016, the shooting of my production titled ‘Shikari’ was stopped for a day and 400 people were made to sit idle since dancers from dance guild were not recruited. The loss was Rs 15 lakh. Shooting of ‘Chalbaaz’ was not allowed in the UK last month. From June 22, there was a 17-day schedule planned with a cast and crew of 40 people including 19 technicians. All of them had to fly back to Kolkata from London between June 22 and 27. The loss was Rs 1 crore,” Dhanuka added. Meanwhile, Dilip Pithva, who is the general secretary of Federation of Western India Cine Employees, said in Bollywood they don’t impose any suggestions on the number of technicians to be employed for shooting in India or abroad. “It is the producers’ prerogative to decide on who and how many technicians they want to employ. Right, now we also don’t even have any MoU with any producers’ body on this issue. I can only talk about what’s followed by us in Mumbai and not what’s done in Kolkata,” Pithva said. Director Rhitobrata Bhattacharya, member of JCC, was keen to know why producers and directors in Kolkata have to be unnecessarily burdened by the rules set by FCTWEI when Bollywood doesn’t act this way. “Times have changed. There are many redundant things being forced on us. Now we can make an entire movie with just six people. Yet, the FCTWEI forces us to take not less than 50 technicians when we are shooting in Bengal. For outdoor shootings, we need to take 19 people. All these are unnecessary burdens on producers. Not just financial burden, having these extra people don’t add anything to the aesthetics of a film,” said Bhattacharya, who was present at the meeting. Bhattacharya added he was supposed to shoot with Rahul Bose and Nusrat Jahan at Free School Street. In the narrow stretch, there was no need for sound recordist, electrician or trolley people. “Yet, FCTWEI was forcing me to take them. The result was I had to cancel my Free School Street schedule and shift elsewhere. We want need-based recruitment of technicians. If at all an MoU is signed between FCTWEI and EIMPA, it has to be need-based. Why is FCTWEI dictating terms on who and how many technicians need to be recruited?” he asked. Said Krishna Daga, the chairperson of the producers’ section of EIMPA, “The FCTWEI is on a no-cooperation mode with Eskay Movies. Unless they lift the ban, all producers have united to agree that we will not get into any dialogue with them. If they don’t respond by  , we will approach the chief minister.”