MYSURU: After nearly a month, the curtains came down on the high-octane campaign for the   to the   and   assembly segments on Friday.

 At Gundlupet in Chqamarajanagar, chief minister  , who joined the Congress candidate Geetha Mahadev Prasad for one last round of campaigning kept a close watch on the clock. While the many road shows he has participated in during the campaign have largely been freewheeling interactions, he wanted to ensure that he did not exceed the 5pm deadline for public campaigning. In fact, he wrapped up the campaign at Gundlupet at 4.10pm and headed for Mysuru. The CM, who covered nearly 1,000km during the campaign, is expected to leave for Bengaluru on Saturday evening. However, KPCC chief and home minister G Parameshwara left for Bengaluru on Friday evening. 
 
 Although it’s a bypoll to two segments, both the Congress and the BJP have campaigned intensely, with prominent state and central leaders from both parties making an appearance at the two constituencies. BJP state president  , who took up temporary residence in MYsuru, campaigned for 26 days. However, on Friday, he chose not to head to the villages to seek votes. The former CM rushed to Voddana Hosahalli in Gundlupet, where a farmer, Chikkamada Shetty committed suicide. He met the family members of the deceased farmers and offered his condolences.
 
 He did, however, pay a visit to the BJP campaign office at Nanjangud, where he held a meeting with the party members. Yeddyurappa’s aides said that he had travelled over 3,000km in the course of the campaign, during which he visited 210 villages and conducted more than 200 road shows. Yeddyurappa too left Nanjangud well ahead of the deadline, and is likely to leave for Bengaluru on Saturday.
 
 Although most leaders, and ministers left the two segments, energy minister DK Shivakumar, who has been given charge of Gundlupet, said that he would stay at a farm house on the border of the taluk, and monitor the situation. Dhivakumar’s decision comes against a backdrop of charges being made of both BJP and Congress indulging in distributing cash.
 
