Chennai: The   larger version of the city, covering more than 8,800sqkm, announced by the state may soon be taking shape on the drawing board but in this massive plan, the focus is on the details that make for smaller self-sustained townships. 

 As the state begins to give shape to the project with a strategic regional plan, city developers stress the need for taking a cue from international practices for creating a sustainable urban conglomeration. The ideal model for successfully implementing planned development would be ‘glocal’ — a combination of global and local, notes founder and CMD of Hiranandani Group Niranjan Hiranandani. "It is about creating everything that would be needed by the community. The goal being a situation where ‘walk to work and walk back home’ becomes a reality," he said. Noting that global principles are vital for planning integrated townships, he said, such planned development has proved to be a successful model. 
 
 At the crux of this project, say architects, is the need for easy access to public transport. "Few selected places may act as nodal points wherein the central facilities such as transport systems (metro stations and airports) can be set up. For instance, the airport in Chennai can be retained as a domestic airport and the international terminus can be shifted to a node, like Sriperumbudur, thereby diverting traffic away from Chennai city and promote uniform expansion," said K Shivashankar, chief architect of Eskay Design. He added that for Chennai the Singapore model, with its hassle-free access to public transport systems within a radius of every 500m, may be a good example to follow.
 
 Real estate experts feel the extended areas should be planned considering the requirement in the next couple of decades. They should emerge as standalone cities without depending on the economics of Chennai. "A classic example is Navi Mumbai with schools, hospitals, transport options, and Special Economic Zone rentals. The existing city does not need to be the nerve centre for the expanded areas. Planning should ensure the developing zones must be standalone cities with economic activities," said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants.
 
 Sources in the state housing and urban development department said that global practices would be explored for expansion of the metropolis. "We may adopt international models. For instance, Germany has spatial environmental planning that encompasses a variety of land use zones, addressing a range of issues including facilities for people to sustain agriculture," an official said. 
 
 
