NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The election departments in   and Ghaziabad are preparing for the enrolment of new voters ahead of the UP assembly election, but the software for voters’ enrolment in the two offices at present is inoperative. The   on Wednesday announced the dates of UP assembly election, and the regional election departments are awaiting the commission’s nod on voters’ enrolment.

 Amit Kumar, SDM Dadri, and in-charge of Noida election office, said the department was accepting applications for enrolment as voters online and offline. “The   will start issuing them voter identity cards once we get the final nod from the Election Commission. At present, the software for voters’ registration is not operational,” he said. The official said the process was likely to start from January 10.
 
 Atul Kumar, SDM Sadar, Ghaziabad, also said that the software for voters’ enrolment was not functional. “The election department will publish the updated voters roll on January 12. We will kickstart the process when the Election Commission issues a fresh notification on voters’ enrolment,” he said.
 
 Residents, who had recently shifted to the highrise societies in sectors 119, 120, 121, 74, 75, 76, 77, etc, said they had applied for voters’ registration but their applications were rejected. Gaurav Kumar, a resident of Sector 120, said that he had applied two months ago but the application was rejected online. “They did not give me the reason for the rejection. The officials should expedite the registration process as the election date has been declared,” said Gaurav Kumar, a resident of Sector 120.
 
 The officials of the election department, however, said the Election Commission would soon start the process of registering of new voters. For registration of new voters, the citizens can fill up form No. 6 which is available online (http://ceouttarpradesh.nic.in/). They can also get the forms from the city magistrate’s office in Noida‘s Sector 19. The applicants can submit form No. 8 for correction and form No. 7 for removal/deletion of names.
 
 
