CHANDIGARH: The subtle twitching of ‘veena’, producing a thin string of notes, followed by an interlude and a dip of sounds, only to be extended by another vein of music, escaped through the body of his ‘Mohan veena’ (slide guitar) and reverberated.

 His fingers moving seamlessly, on the twinning strings, weaved a rhapsody of renditions of ‘Raga Gavati’ immersed in ‘Shringhar Raas’, symbolic of the love of Krishna and Radha. “The Indian classical music purifies your soul and cleanses your spirit,” said   winning exponent Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, who touched the core of its audience with his soul stirring melodies while performing at the  , marking the last day of the week long celebrations that transpired for World Tourism Day, organised by   and Cultural Affairs, UT. 
 
 With renowned Tantra exponent and his son Pt Salil Bhatt on Saatvik Veena (slide guitar) and celebrated tabla maestro Abhishek Mishra to his left, the euphoric melody, tipping from ‘Aal Aap Jod Jhaala’, submitting the first instalment of Raga Gawati, devoid of the beats, made way for a middle octave body of music. 
 
 Talking to TOI, while dressed in his signature Kurta Pajama, the Padma Vibhushan and Padma Shri winning artist spoke about the importance of internet, YouTube, mobile phones and Google, which has made accessing and making music exceedingly easy for the young musicians. He said, “Now-a-days, any type of music is very easily accessible and can be downloaded. Hence, they should take advantage of it.”
 
 Bhatt was awarded the Grammy Award, the highest accolade in music in 1994 for his album ‘A Meeting By The River’ after being nominated in 1993 and winning another nomination in the year 1997. 
 
 The legendary instrumentalist, who hails from the renowned   of Jaipur has recently completed fifty years with music and feels very lucky and greatly humbled. When asked about the standard of Shastriya Sangeet in the country right now, he said, “I think this is a good time for any type of music to be created because people have realised its importance. I am extremely happy that Chandigarh Tourism is improving classical music by including it in the tourism festival like this, so that it reaches far more people than it does.”
 
 Governor V P Singh Badnore, Alka Singh and home secretary   were the chief guests at the event. 
 
