SECUNDERABAD: Properties of nearly 10,000   is likely to be attached by the   (SCB) if they fail to pay pending dues before March 31. 

 Officials say despite making several pleas to defaulters, very few came forward to clear their dues. But in November after the   announced they would accept  , property owners paid nearly Rs two crore in tax dues. 
 
 “On December 31, SCB served ‘red notices’ to nearly 8,000 defaulters. According to their records,   were nearly Rs 9 crore. Most of them are defaulters in commercial category. The residential owners paid dues during demonetisation,” a source in SCB-Tax Department told TOI. 
 
 The SCB gave 30 days from the date of issuing of ‘red notices’ to the defaulters, but many ignored them. The property tax default range varies between Rs one lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh. “We alerted the defaulters since October. As the defaulters did not respond we then decided to take up a special drive to attach the assets like commercial establishments. During the drive, so far, we have sealed nearly 20 commercial establishments in Cantonment area and the drive will be continued further,” the source said. 
 
 Defaulters who are scared of their properties being sealed, were seen rushing to the SCB office and clearing the dues on Thursday. Few were paying through online channels to avoid sealing the properties, added the official.
 
 “The SCB has to show mercy on us. All of a sudden, they are sealing properties. As a result, our regular business is being hit. We are tenants and hired the premises on rental basis, but the owner did not inform us regarding receiving of ‘red notices’ from the SCB officials,” said a tenant of a commercial establishment at Bowenpally. 
 
 When TOI contacted SCB Chief Executive Officer, SVR Chandra Sekhar said, “Our intention is not to trouble property owners. We are insisting they should pay dues which are pending for the past two years. We are sealing properties, as per the Cantonment Act, we are sealing the properties only. This year, we planned to collect Rs 41 crore property tax and till now, the tax department has collected about Rs 24 crore only,” he added.
 
