NAGPUR:   is an export-oriented economy which aims to increase its economic colonization. War with   will cost tonnes of money to both the countries and India is one of the biggest importer of Chinese goods, hence war will sabotage China’s dream of economic colonization, said Col (retd) Gurang here on Saturday.

 Delivering a lecture on the topic ‘Dragon ki Dadagiri’ under Dnyanyodha lecture series at Shahapurkar Hall, Gurang said, “Chinese are deceitful businessmen, they dominated world export because of their low cost but never provided quality. The economic revolution came in China after death of Chinese communist revolutionary Mao Tse-tung when paramount leader of peoples republican Deng Xiaoping brought economic reforms and started manufacturing products in China. He invested money in research and started exporting ‘Made in China’ products across the world.”
 
 Talking about China’s behaviour with India, Gurang said, “China was introduced to United Nation’s Security Council by India but it blocked our membership. China has largest number of border disputes in the world. Doklam is the recent example of China’s behaviour, but it has been back-stabbing India since 1949 when Indian soldiers were killed at Aksai Chin.”
 
 Talking about solutions to the problems, Gurang said that India’s biggest defence is Himalayan range on Chinese border which makes it hard for them to survive on Indian side of the border. “It has the largest army in the world, Himalayan range keeps us one step ahead of them. Strong political leadership and a stern stand is necessary today to deal with the issues with China,” he added.
 
 Researcher Vasantrao Kane was another speaker at lecture, speaking on the topic, he said, “China’s behaviour goes long back in history from the time of Genghis Khan who massacred every male in his conquest to dominate his presence in Asia. Today’s China is also using same philosophy and trying to dominate Asia. India must be more cautions while dealing with it.”
 
 Retired Colonel Abhay Patwardhan was also present at the programme.
 
