BENGALURU: As the national   leadership tries to build its base in one of the last frontier states of Kerala, with the Jana Raksha yatra (padayatra) to protest against the alleged state sponsored killings of the Sangh parivar members in that state, Karnataka state unit is set to swell the BJP numbers by participating in the 14 day event.

 Scheduled to begin from Kannur and Kasaragod, located along the border with Karnataka, the national leadership has asked all state BJP office bearers to participate in the rally for atleast one day, of the 14 days of road show in Kerala.
 
 “We have been asked to participate at least for one day in the Jana Raksha yatra for boosting the ranks of the Kerala party unit, primarily in the border areas,” said a party office bearer.
 
 Shah, who was supposed to arrive on Monday evening and head to Kasaragod for public interaction, will be reaching the coastal city on late Monday evening. The Kasaragod rally has been postponed to Tuesday morning.
 
 Later, on October 5, Shah will be heading to Kannur for the inaugural Jana Raksha yatra.
 
 Amidst these rallies, Shah has also scheduled to interact with the state leadership on October 4.
 
 According to party sources,   was not sloted in Shah’s itineary and it was at the insistence of the state leadership that the BJP strongman will be visiting the city.
 
 BJP claims, with an eye on 2018 elections, having Shah visiting the city will further boost the image of the party in the coastal parts of the state.
 
 It is said Shah is likely to have an informal one-on-one meeting with party president   to take an update of the rallies and protests against the incumbent government and also discuss the strategy for 2018 elections.
 
 On October 4 at 10 am the party office bearers will be having an interaction with Shah on the topic of the   rally and its preparations.
 
 With Shah’s presence at the rally a foregone conclusion on November 2, the finer details are likely to be discussed at the meeting scheduled in   hotel.
 
 Soon after the meeting, the BJP core committee is also scheduled to meet to discuss the implementation of the “orders” which will be given by Shah for the Parivarthan rally or otherwise.
 
