For a Tamil Brahmin born in Trivandrum, but lived most of her life in Bengaluru,   speaks Malayalam quite well. 

 Though the actress isn’t confident about it, she was thrilled when the offer to act in the Bejoy Nambiar directorial Solo, starring  , came her way. Not only was it a Mollywood comeback for the Kannada actress who debuted here in 2012, it also offered her one of the most challenging roles in her caree, she says.
 
 Sruthi speaks about her character in Solo, winning the Karnataka State Award for the Best Actress earlier this year and her journey so far…
 
 
 
 I play a fiercely independent, complicated, extremely mature, yet simple persona, named Rukku – yes, she is all of it rolled into one. She comes from the lower strata of the society, but makes sure that she gets her way even if it means putting up a tantrum.
 It is one of the most challenging roles yet. In fact, even after the shoot was over, I wanted to continue being Rukku, explore the other nuances about her, and understand what all she might feel and do in various circumstances. It was also a good break from the kind of commercial projects I have been doing lately. Shooting for the film felt like as if I was on a fulfilling holiday in Kochi.
 
 
 
 We don’t have a lot of scenes together but in the brief interaction we had, he came across as a humble and wonderful person, and everyone says that about him. On the set, it was Dulquer who could handle Malayalam the best, as the rest of us, including Bejoy, belonged to the ‘can-just-manage-it’ league.
 
 Though my Malayalam isn’t bad, I struggled to deliver my lines in the language. 
 For me, I had to get the pronunciations right while also nailing the emotions. That was a challenge. I kept getting nervous, probably because it’s been so long since I last did it.
 
 
 
 Despite having lived long enough in Bengaluru, I didn’t know to speak Kannada. When I studied in Christ College, I knew Malayalam better than Kannada (laughs). I learnt to speak it after my first movie, Lucia, and now I know it better than my mother tongue, Tamil.
 The film, a romantic psychological thriller, was a pathbreaker of sorts and even now, many refer to me as the Lucia girl. Over the past four years, I have been lucky enough to be part of good Kannada films, which also include those in the unconventional format. Kannada is going through a major transformation in terms of the films that are being produced. I’m glad to be part of the change.
 My journey in Kannada has been a balanced one. Commercial cinema is where I earn my money, but it is not something I rely on for creative satisfaction. I get that immensely from the small budget, unconventional movies that I take up. I feel lucky for having been part of many such good movies.
 
 
 
 I won the Karnataka State Best Actress Award for the movie Beautiful Manasugalu. Working in movies like that and Urvi, the female-oriented movie, has made me quite bold. Now, I am not scared to say things the way I see it. Unlike in Malayalam, where you have many actresses like Parvathy or Nithya Menen, who speak their mind, in Kannada, such actresses are rare. They hold back. Despite that, it’s films like these that have given me the strength to come out and speak honestly.
 
 
 
 I have probably seen a lot more of failures than success in my career, so far. After every flop, I just told myself, I will continue to do my best regardless of the result. I feel that it’s probably because being an actor in itself has been a fulfilling rebellion of sorts for me, as I hail from an orthodox family. I have always been a rebel, but committed to my work. Usually female actors phase out in two or three years, we have heard stories of that here. I have survived for the past five years as I have always done what I love to do.
 
 
 
 Happy New Year, which is a romcom, is my next release and it is also an anthology like Solo. I play an extremely challenging role of a bedridden patient who has cystic fibrosis, an incurable disease. The film required me to be on an always-on-bed pose and that sort of shocks you as an actor as you don’t have any body language to explore. The acting is limited to the expressions and dialogues.
 I also have a Tamil-Kannada bilingual coming up with Arjun Sarja, named Vismaya in Kannada and Nibunan in Tamil. I am currently shooting for Humble Politician Nograg, a political comedy satire, based on the popular social media character created by Kannada stand-up comedian Danish Sait. There is also a project coming up with actor Darshan, titled Taarak.
 
 
 
 I would love to work in more of Mollywood projects if good films come my way, especially after Solo. I know the language well enough, I was born in Trivandrum and my grandparents are still there. There are interesting projects happening in Kannada as well, because of which even I’m not consciously looking out for movies here.
 
 
 
