GURUGRAM: Homebuyers can now hope for speedy redress of their grievances.

 Gurgaon deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh has constituted a seven-member sub-committee of Allottee Grievance Redressal Forum ( ), in a move that is aimed at   of complaints and continuous monitoring of projects for their timely completion.
 
 Y M Mansuri, senior town planner (STP), the department of town and country planning (DTCP), has been appointed as the chairperson of the sub-committee while Mohan Singh, district town planner (DTP-planning), DTCP, will be member secretary. These apart, superintendent engineers (I & II) of Huda, superintendent engineer of DHBVN/HVPNL, DTP (enforcement) of DTCP and STP of MCG will be members on the newly formed panel.
 
 “In view of a large number of complaints, mostly related to delay in possession and violation of bilateral agreements, the sub-committee of AGRF has been constituted. The committee will conduct a meeting every month to hear out buyers and address their grievances,” said deputy commissioner Singh, who is also the chairperson of AGRF.
 
 The seven-member panel came into effect on February 10 and is likely to convene its first meeting very soon. 
 
 Interestingly, the state government had constituted AGRF in Gurgaon in September 2015 to address problems of homebuyers in private developers’ areas in a time-bound manner. Since then, AGRF had held four meetings — in September 2015, January, August and September 2016 — and taken up over 150 complaints.
 
 However, with a rise in the number of complaints from homebuyers against builders and real estate developers, the authorities decided to provide more teeth to the AGRF, making it a more effective and organised forum to deal with the problems in the sector.
 
 “The sub-committee will hold regular meetings and monitor implantation of the directives given to developers,” said Mohan Singh. It will then submit an action taken report to AGRF for further action. “During its meetings, AGRF will take up the matters that remain unresolved in the sub-committee,” he said, adding that the department was serious about resolving issues of buyers.
 
 Earlier in this month, DTCP has tweaked norms for licence renewal, making it mandatory for developers to share with AGRF details of complaints pending against them at the time of submitting applications. If there are complaints pending before AGRF or there is a negative field report, a developer’s licence will not be renewed.
 
 Assistant town planner (ATP) RS Batth said: “The formation of the panel and new licence renewal norms will make AGRF more effective.”
 
 
