PATNA: Union minister of electronics and information technology   on Thursday said   ( ) would soon start running a call centre at Pataliputra in Patna with a capacity of 1,000 workers. Bids have come for opening call centres even in small towns like Dalsinghsarai and Muzaffarpur which will provide job opportunities to the youth of Bihar.

 The minister was speaking at the inaugural function of Bihar’s first Digital   (DGCR) in Patna. The centre located on the premises of the   (STPI) at Rajiv Nagar will focus on developing tools and technologies for digital governance initiatives by conducting research in different fields, including e-governance.
 
 Prasad also asked chief minister Nitish Kumar to work together with the Union government to help the people of Bihar in getting maximum benefits of the digital revolution which the country was witnessing. “Digital India is for the masses. India is progressing towards e-hospitals and e-mandis. Inclusion being an integral part of the   campaign, we aim to connect 2.5 lakh gram panchayats to this movement through optical fibre under the Digital Gram initiative,” said the Union IT minister, adding the Indian digital economy would be approximately 1 trillion in the coming five to seven years and all sectors of the society would contribute to and benefit from it.
 
 As far as IT exports from STPI are concerned, Patna stood at Rs 9 crore in 2013-14, Rs10.75 crore in 2014-15 and Rs17.25 crore in 2015-16. The total IT exports from India stands at around Rs 7 lakh crore at present. 
 
 Senior officials in the Union IT ministry informed that the DGRC would help people communicate with the government at any time from any location and eliminate the need of physical visit to government offices. “Services will be available to people with computers and 24X7 internet access in contrast to government offices which tend to be open only during business hours. Through feeds, mobile messaging, microblogging services and blogs, the government and its agencies can share information with citizens who share common interests and concerns,” said a source.
 
 
