CHENNAI: Equity mutual funds (MFs) have upstaged foreign institutional investors (FIIs) by pumping nearly 2.4 times more money into the stock markets on a net basis in 2016. Fund houses made net investments of about $7.4 billion (Rs. 48,746 crore) into the equity markets during the year, data with markets regulator SEBI showed.

 In contrast, FIIs, who are much larger players in the stock markets, made net investments of just $3.1 billion (Rs 20,568 crore) in 2016. With this, MFs have beaten FIIs for the second consecutive year. Fund houses overshadowed FIIs by pumping nearly four times more money into the stock markets during 2015.
 
 The strong showing by fund houses is largely due to the steady inflows into equity MF schemes. Equity MFs (including equity-linked savings schemes) received net inflows of Rs 54875 crore (about $8.3 billion) in 2016, the second highest on record, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.
 
 This enabled fund houses to aggressively deploy money in the stock markets. In fact, equity MFs have pumped a record Rs 22954 crore ($3.5 billion) into shares on a net basis during November and December alone capitalising on the slump in the stock markets that followed the government’s sudden decision to demonetise high value currency and the rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.
 
 “People have realised the virtue of long-term investing and SIPs (systematic investment plans). They have started to move away from physical assets (such as gold and real estate) to financial assets (such as mutual funds),” says Sunil Singhania, chief investment officer, equities, Reliance Capital Asset Management. “This trend will continue,” he says.
 
 “More people are buying equity MF schemes. The SIP book size has been doubling every year,” says A Balasubramanian, chief executive officer, Birla Sun Life MF. “About 40%-50% of the inflows into equity schemes are coming through SIPs. The ticket size (average monthly investment) is also going up,” he says.
 
 Barring odd instances such as the market meltdown in 2008 when the crash that followed the global financial crisis triggered a massive pullout by FIIs, overseas investors have stood head and shoulders above their domestic peers in terms of investments into Indian stock markets. Interestingly, FIIs were the biggest buyers in the post-election market rally pumping about $16 billion (about Rs. 97000) crore in 2014, nearly double the money invested by equity MF investors.
 
 FIIs, however, continue to remain the big daddy of Indian stock markets. They owned an average 25% in BSE-200 companies at the end of September 2016 with the value of their holdings pegged at $337 billion. In contrast, MFs owned a mere 4.4% in BSE-200 firms, whose value is only around $59 billion.
 
 
 
