RANCHI:  , CPI (Maoist) leader and brother of zonal commander  , surrendered at the   police station on Saturday afternoon. Dimba was involved in high profile murders such as that of MLA Ramesh Singh Munda, special branch inspector Francis Induwar and DSP Pramod Kumar. 

 The Maoist, who had joined the outfit back in 1998, had a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head, was wanted in three states of West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar for 18 cases against him. Dimba was given a cheque of Rs 15 lakh during the surrender under the state government's Operation Nai Disha programme. After surrendering before Ashwini Kumar Sinha, SP Khunti, Dimba pledged to change his ways and join mainstream society.
 
 "We had been tracking Dimba for a long time and later, we tried to persuade him to surrender through some of his well-wishers to which he finally agreed. Kundan Pahan is a zonal commander of the CPI (Maoist) and they are both members of the Bihar Jharkhand Special Area Committee (BJSAC)," said the SP. Kundan, who is one of the most wanted Maoists in Jharkhand, had masterminded the Francis Induwar and MLA murder cases. He was also named in the killing of MP Sunil Mahato in Baguria. 
 
 Kundan and Dimba's brother   is also a part of the cadre. Dimba told the media that he will soon make efforts to get his brothers back to the mainstream. Six of the siblings are residents of Barigarha village, Arki block in Khunti district. 
 
 SP Ashwini told TOI, "Dimba claims that he has not been in touch with his brother and that he is unaware of his whereabouts. The hunt for Kundan is still on and we are trying to track him."
 
 While speaking to reporters after his surrender, Pahan claimed that his younger brother Kundan was expelled from the party because of illicit relations with some members of the women cadre. Anal Da had hatched a plot to kill him and had made preparations for it but Kundan escaped. Kundan's whereabouts have not been known since then. 
 
 Dimba said that he has had a conversation with the concerned members of the women cadre and they admitted that were forced to make false allegations against Kundan. Dimba also appealed to the rest of the members of the outfit to return to mainstream.
 
 Pranjal Choudhary I TNN
 
