MUMBAI: Perhaps   had an early flight to catch. Or maybe, after almost sealing his place in the Indian Test team with a wonderful counter-attacking hundred for   against   on Day Four of the   at the Brabourne Stadium here, the wicketkeeper-batsman was taking a shot at a berth in the limited-overs team as well.

 Having shaved off most part of a 379-run fourth-innings chase against Gujarat, all ROI needed was 113 more when the final morning began. With Saha going `bang bang' from ball one, and skipper   cracking his 37th first-class hundred (116 not out, 238b, 16x4), the target was achieved in just about 90 minutes -115 balls to be precise. ROI's comfortable six-wicket win came before lunch on the last day .
 
 Having resumed on 123, Saha finished on an unbeaten 203 -the first double hundred by a wicketkeeper in the Irani Cup. It was the Bengal gloveman's maiden double ton too.Toying with the Gujarat attack, the 32-year-old smashed six towering sixes and 26 fours, which meant that 140 of his runs came in boundaries.That he played quite a few dot balls during his blazing knock shows that he chose to attack only the loose deliveries. Saha's unfinished 316-run partnership with Pujara is the second-highest for any wicket, and a record for the fifth, in the Irani Cup.
 
 Pujara's golden season, meanwhile, continues. The India No. 3 has amassed 1,522 runs in 12 games with six hundreds and six fifties in firstclass cricket since September 2016. He now potentially has five Tests (one against Bangladesh and four against Australia) to break Chandu Borde's record for most runs in an Indian season. Borde made 1604 runs in 21 games in 1964-65.
 
 It was clear that by Tuesday, Gujarat, completely outclassed by the India duo, had put up the `white flag' and were ready to surrender. With four of their key bowlers -Jasprit Bumrah, RP Singh, Rush Kalaria and Axar Patel -missing this game, they seemed content to have taken the match to the fifth day .
 
 “Wriddhi batted brilliantly .He took his chances, and rightly so. Hid approach was very good, and it clicked for them,“ said Gujarat skipper  , who now has clearly fallen behind Saha in the battle for the sole wicketkeeper's slot in the India Test XI. “We lacked discipline in bowling, but then considering their inexperience, our bowlers did well,“ he felt. Complimenting Saha's innings, Pujara said: “To chase 370 was not easy, (especially) when you lose four wickets early on and the bowlers are on top. At that stage, I felt we'll probably lose this game. When Wridhi came in, after a couple of overs, he told me, `I'm going to take on the bowlers.“ I said, `Yes.' We needed someone to take on the bowlers and unsettle their line and length, and he started doing that.“
 
 Being used to facing bowlers who are much quicker in international cricket, both found it easy to execute Saha's plan to attack from one end to release the pressure. “Gujarat only had medium-pacers in their attack, and both of us have faced fast bowlers who bowl at 140 kmph. At the other end, I was there to hold up the innings, playing the ball on merit,“ Pujara said.
 
 Even though it came against an average attack, the hundred that Pujara hit from a tough situation, to follow up on his 86 in the first innings, was as ideal a preparation as the 28-year-old could have hoped for. “It does help. You start getting concentration and footwork back. It was a challenging situation.“
 
 
