NEW DELHI:  , who led India’s legal fight to get a stay from the   on Kulbhushan Jadhav’s execution, on Thursday said the   interim order was binding on Pakistan and any violation of this directive would invite action by the UN Security Council.

 Salve told TOI from London that every interim order and ruling of the international court gets placed before the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) and any violation invites serious action.
 
 “I do not think Pakistan will take the serious risk of facing the wrath of the UNSC by disobeying the ICJ order,” he said. “If Pakistan dares to breach the directive to hold its hands till a formal hearing on India’s plea, it will be inviting dangerous consequences.”
 
 Salve said India placed its case “softly and soberly” before the ICJ and drove home the continuous violation of obligations under Vienna Convention on Consular Access by Pakistan in denying access of  .
 
 “We had not appealed against the military court verdict before the ICJ. What we presented before the international court was that denial of consular access to India to its citizen in Pakistan was an international treaty violation, a lapse that possibly seriously breached Jadhav’s right to adequate legal assistance. Who knows what could have been the outcome of the trial if Jadhav had full legal assistance from India during the trial,” he said.
 
 Salve said when he was arguing the case before the international court, which returned a unanimous interim verdict in favour of India, he felt a connect with the bench. But he was quick to clarify that it was a gut feeling, which did not come out true in every case.
 
 Asked what prompted him to do the case pro bono, Salve said that when a cause appealed to him, he always did the case without charging fee. “I have not charged a penny for all the environmental cases I have done in the Supreme Court for more than a decade,” he said.
 
 Salve had told TOI two days ago that Pakistan’s arguments at the international court at the Hague were “contradictory” and “inconsistent” on facts and also on legal aspects, failing to meet the points that were raised by him for a stay on Jadhav’s execution. Pakistan had argued that India’s apprehension on impending execution of Jadhav was a red herring as Pakistani law provided for 150 days clemency period for any condemned prisoner in the country.
 
 “However, India pointed out that on the one hand Pakistan was citing the legal provision prescribing the clemency period available to Jadhav, while on the other hand, it kept reiterating that the country would take stringent steps to punish spies from enemy countries,” he had said.
 
