NAGPUR: Union minister and city MP   has said that by the end of his term in next two years, he would fulfil Babasaheb Ambedkar’s dream of connecting the country through waterways.

 Gadkari, who also holds waterways and shipping portfolios, was speaking at the release of the book ‘Dr  : The Architect of Modern India’ published by   on Sunday. 
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane, pro-VC Pramod Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram, Jabbar Patel, Marathi director who made a biopic on the Dalit icon, former planning commission member Bhalchandra Mungnekar and the book’s editor ML Kasare were present.
 
 “Very few know about Babasaheb’s contribution in building the nation through his vision on industry, agriculture and economics. ML Kasare and his team have done a great job in bringing out this book,” Gadkari said.
 
 The Union minister further said had the successive governments taken Ambedkar’s vision about inland waterways seriously, the country’s growth rate would have increased by 3% today. “Across the world, water transport accounts for a major part of the system. Unfortunately in India, the figure is only at 5% despite Babasaheb highlighting its importance many years ago,” Gadkari said.
 
 Gadkari added that the government would be interlinking 111 rivers to facilitate water transport. “1,680km of Ganga with a 25 mt width would have water ports and ferry services. From Sahibganj in   to Varanasi to   through West Bengal, and Myanmar, we would have water transport,” he said, adding that the mode is cheapest among all.
 
 Gadkari said when he took over the ministry three years ago, ports were grossly neglected. “In my first year, we earned a profit of Rs2,000 crore, Rs3,000 next year followed by Rs5,000crore from ports. This year, the profit would touch Rs7,000 crore. In one month, we would start work on 10 rivers,” he said.
 
 On funding these projects, Gadkari said, “There is no dearth of money. I have sought PM’s permission and we would sell bonds to raise the money for all these projects. We won’t invite foreign investors but open the doors for low ranking or retired employees to invest,” he said.
 
 
