LUCKNOW: A day after it raked up the contentious issues of Ram temple, exodus in Kairana and closure of slaughterhouses, the BJP has decided to begin its campaign in west UP through one of its most polarising figures -Yogi  .

 The Gorakhpur MP will be the first of star campaigners in the list of 40 who will address a rally each on January 30 at Bulandshahr, Dholana, Loni and Sahibabad constituencies in west UP. While Dholana is in Hapur district, Loni and Sahibabad constituencies are in Ghaziabad district, a part of the  .
 
 Interestingly, the firebrand leader, known for his clout in east UP districts surrounding Gorakhpur, has become the second most sought-after campaigner after Prime Minister  .It is for this reason that Yogi's 12 meetings in various parts of west UP has been finalised subject to official clearance from the Election Commission.
 
 The five-time MP will again be addressing rallies in Muzaffarnagar, the district which saw riots in 2013, on February 1. The same day he will also address rallies in Shamli and Baghpat districts. On February 2, he will address rallies in Hathras, Agra and Mathura.However, the rallies on February 1 and 2 are subject to clearance from EC, a party leader close to Adityanath said. In fact, many BJP insiders see chances of winning a majority of seats in west UP after the party manifesto promised closure of abattoirs -both illegal and modern ones.
 
 According to former state BJP president Lax mikant Bajpai, the re were nearly 55 slaughterhouses in the state in 2014, which had environ mental clearances.
 
 Out of them, 51 were located in west UP region between Agra and Saharanpur, he said.
 
 “With the increase in the number of slaughterhouses, milching animals have decreased. This has increased the cost of milk and its products and had also led to adulteration of milk,“ Bajpai claimed.However, he clarified that those slaughterhouses within the limits of local bodies and meant for people's meat consumption would not come under the category mentioned in the BJP manifesto. The ban would be only on tho se exporting meat, he said. “Once they are closed down, not only milk price will come down, even the menace of adulterated milk will end,“ he said.
 
 There are only 13% meat eaters in the state, Bajpai added.
 
 One of the reasons for BJP's move to send Adityanath to begin campaigning in west UP seems to be the large number of Muslim candidates fielded by SP and BSP.
 
 In Bulandshahr, BSP has fielded   while SP has fielded Sujat Alam. In Loni, the BSP has fielded Haji Zakir Ali while the SP has fielded Rashid Malik.In Dholana, the BSP has fielded Aslam Ali while SP has given ticket to Dharmesh Tomar. However, in Sahibabad, sitting MLA from BSP   is again contesting while the SP has fielded Virendra Yadav.
 
