AURANGABAD: Former MLA and farm labourers’ action committee convener   on Monday filed a civil application in the Aurangabad bench of the   seeking direction on the court’s interim orders.

 Dhondge, who approached the high court through lawyer Pandit Anerao, said that last year, on May 5 and July 1, the same court had in interim orders directed the state and central governments and other authorities to take steps for solving the problems of farmers and farm labourers.
 
 Dhondge had approached the high court on January 5 last year with regard to suicides by farmers and farm labourers in Marathwada and to seek directions to nine respondents, including the state and central governments, for taking effective measures to protect the life of poor farmers and their livestock.
 
 He pointed out in his civil application that while passing an interim order on May 5, 2016, the bench comprising Justices S S Shinde and S S Patil had stated “We are not issuing any mandatory directions to the respondents, we hope and expect that the respondents will consider the issues raised by the petitioners about the crop loan waiver and also disbursing of crop loans for next year, supply of drinking water and foodgrain, supply of seeds and fertilizers and keeping in view the provisions of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005, provide work to the needy persons in drought affected areas.”
 
 During the course of hearing on the petition, in its subsequent order on July 1, 2016, the bench comprising Justices R M Borde and   had also issued interim orders while stating that “the issue raised by the petitioner, in the instant petition, shall have to be looked into from the point of view of implementation of the policy and monitoring its implementation. Under the circumstances, the grievances raised in the matter and referred to above shall have to be looked into by the state government.” 
 
 The bench had then observed: “The concerned banks and other implementing agencies and the executive machinery of the state are duty bound to ensure that the policies which are of essential character shall be scrupulously implemented so that the benefits reach the targeted class.”
 
 Dhondge in his civil application said that despite the high court’s interim orders, the authorities concerned did not make any concerted efforts to implement all these directions. 
 
 He pointed out to the court that during the last three months, hundreds of farmers in the state have committed suicide, with 170 ending their lives in Marathwada alone. 
 
 “Despite making representations to the state and central governments, they have not taken any positive steps to ensure that suicides by debt-ridden farmers are stopped,” he added. 
 
