BHOPAL: Making a mockery of students’ concerns, Barkatullah University employees on Saturday tucked into spicy chhola and tasty bhatura and turned away students from the   They were asked to visit the campus on Monday. Shocked, students left the campus, some in sheer disbelief and others in anger over priorities and virtually turning it into admission silly season. 

 Surprised to see a table with a stove and utensils in front of the admission counter in  , the administrative block of the varsity, when some students asked about it, employees replied, “One of our colleagues in the exam section had a function at home which several employees could not attend. Now that employee wanted to throw a party. Chhola-bhatura party was for that.” That said, they were back to the business— filling plate with a serving of north Indian delicacy. 
 
 Students said employees have no business to organise private functions on the university campus. “Is it really a university? These employees arranged a cook for such party. The officials must be sacked so that it serves as an example for others. I heard a lot about the poor image of the university. Today, I saw it. I am not going to take admission in this university,” said a student without quoting his name. 
 
 Another student said, “It is funny. This university runs on money we pay as fee. And these employees are enjoying chhola-bhatura party at our expense. Employees were blunt and unabashed and they made no attempt to cover where the dish was prepared.” For a student, who came from a village in Betul district, waiting till Monday meant wasting two days. 
 
 NSUI state spokesperson Vivek Tripathi said he would file a complaint with higher authorities to take action against such employees. 
 
 When contacted, section officer (exam)   admitted the mistake. “We didn’t know the issue would upset the routine work. In fact, no one has complained about it. If it has created trouble to anyone, I apologise for that,” Qureshi said. About the permission, he said, “There was no formal permission from anyone to conduct such a party.” 
 
 
