AHMEDABAD: Three months after goods and services tax (GST) was implemented, exporters are facing working capital issues due to delayed refunds of integrated GST (IGST). Exporters say their order books – especially of   – have taken a hit and if the delay continues, this may adversely affect their business.

 Under GST, exporters must pay IGST and then claim refunds for tax paid on exported goods and services or they can export goods and services by furnishing a detailed bond or letter of undertaking before each export, without paying IGST and claim refund of input tax credit.
 
 With no GST refunds for two months, merchant exporters are facing a major working capital crunch. “Working capital is a major concern for most merchant exporters at the moment, as availing IGST refunds is getting difficult despite filing GSTR forms. Major exports from Gujarat are in industries such as textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, ceramics and gems and jewellery,” said Bhagyesh Soneji, chairperson, Assocham Gujarat.
 
 According to estimates of the   (FIEO), the government’s liability on processing refunds for industries across the country is Rs 65,000 crore.
 
 “Small exporters are facing cash flow issues and in the long run, it will reduce competitiveness,” said Ajay Sahai, director general,   (FIEO).
 
 Merchant exporters in the pharma industry are also facing an estimated 50-60% working capital crunch. “Earlier, we used to get exemptions from payment of VAT/CST through Form-H and were able to buy goods from excise-registered manufacturers under forms CT1 and ARE-1 without paying duty. A lot of our money is stuck as tax refunds are not available after GST implementation and thus is hurting the industry exports,” said Vijay Shah, a member of Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council (PHARMEXCIL).
 
 The ceramics industry business in Morbi has declined significantly. “Our business is down by more than 50% as we have reduced our export orders. We have to pay 28% tax on exported goods and profit, which increases our working capital by 30%. As most merchant exporters operate on margins of around 10-12%, it is difficult to fulfil orders,” said Upen Nagar, a merchant exporter from Morbi.
 
 Textile industry players estimate a 10% dip in exports if refunds are not made available soon. “A working capital crunch is visible and due to this exports are likely to be down by 5-10% in the immediate future. If refund inflows are not available, there may be losses,” said Shrinarain Aggarwal, chairman,   (SRTEPC).
 
