NAGPUR: There have been a lot of announcements of certain   projects in the   at the   and Hospital (GMCH). However, the fate of most of the proposed institutes since last 4-5 years  

 One major reason for this is the state’s apathy and shortage of funds with it, say GMCH officials. However, the state government has put the blame back on the GMCH authorities for not following proper format in preparing the proposals.
 
 The projects include the Rs120-crore regional institute for paramedical sciences (RIPS), a Rs40-crore spine injury care centre, a Rs100 crore geriatric centre, a Rs120 crore cancer institute and Rs12 crore burn unit. The oldest of these is the RIPS project which was proposed in September 2012. The latest edition in the list of these projects is a Rs600-crore lung institute.
 
 Though all of these are centrally-funded projects, in reality, the centre gives only 60-70% of the project cost with the state government expected to chip in with the remainder. But apparently, the state doesn’t have enough money for the projects and hence is delaying them. Another major reason is that all of these projects require manpower which has to be provided by the state. Sources say that the state government is not allowing any new recruitments. 
 
 While GMCH dean Dr A Niswade said that these projects may be shelved, authorities at the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) claim that none of these projects will be lost. “The state government is also waiting for other medical colleges having similar projects to submit their proposals. Hence there is a delay by the state government,” said the dean.
 
 The DMER authorities, on the other hand, say that the delay is from the GMCH’s side. “The GMCH may have announced all these projects but it has not sent the proposal of a single project in the proper format as is expected by the central government. Repeated reminders to GMCH didn’t work and it is only now that the dean has agreed to send the proposals in the proper format,” said DMER chief Dr  .
 
 Elaborating on the status of each of these projects, Dr Shingare said that the central government has asked for certain supplementary information about the geriatric centre project. But the project was approved by the state government. The same is true for the spine care centre and the government has asked the GMCH to send in the required information. But the state has principally agreed to set up the project.
 
 Dr Shingare said that work on the RIPS project is likely to begin in this financial year. But in this project, the entire construction and equipment installation will be done by the Central Public Works Department. For the burn centre, the DMER says that there are many issues hindering the progress. The GMCH dean wants it on the existing premises of GMCH’s burn ward. But DMER is suggesting that plastic surgery being an integral part of the burn treatment and being a super speciality, it can be set up in the Super Speciality Hospital (SSH). There is no consensus yet on the site.
 
 Interestingly, Dr Shingare said that he has not received any proposal of the lung institute till now and is not even aware of such a big project.
 
 
