CHENNAI: The first family in   – the   clan – is falling apart and it may pose a threat to the state government.

 The power struggle within the family has come to the fore with T T V Dinakaran raising a war cry against the rest of the clan. His recent assertion that no family member – other than himself and his brother-in-law Venkatesh – would be readmitted in   has dashed hopes of about half-a-dozen power mongers. “Dinakaran has instructed ministers and key bureaucrats not to maintain any contact with his family members,” said a senior leader.
 
 The power mongers in Sasikala’s family are her husband M Natarajan, her brother Divakaran, his son Jai Anand, another brother Sundaravadanan’s son Venkatesh and son-in-law Shivakumar, yet another brother Vinodhagan’s son T V Mahadevan, and Ilavarasi’s son Vivek and her son-in-law Raja Rajan. Dinakaran has successfully alienated all of them except Venkatesh, who happens to be his brother-in-law.
 
 Interestingly, even Sasikala has refused to meet anyone other than Dinakaran in prison. A senior leader said, “Ours has always been a party of ‘access control.’ When Amma (Jayalalithaa) was alive, Sasikala had control over access, now it is with Dinakaran. The one who enjoys control over access calls the shots”. Still, many family members camp in Bengaluru to create an alibi that they are in touch with Sasikala.
 
 But keeping his relatives at bay could boomerang for Dinakaran because in the past two decades, Natarajan and Divakaran have been planting their loyalists at all levels in AIADMK. Some have entered the ministry as well. For instance, when rebel leader K P Munusamy attacked Natarajan and Divakaran, five ministers lashed out at Munusamy. “As long as Dinakaran was pursuing his agenda clandestinely, he was safe. Having spelt it out openly, he has hurt his own clan’s ego,” said political analyst M Kasinathan.
 
 Already, the party and the government are bogged down with many issues – O Panneerselvam’s defection, a resurgent DMK and law and order challenges. A revolt within his own family could be a threat to Dinakaran’s position. They maintain restraint because if the government falls, it is a loss for all, said Kasinathan.
 
 A week ago, a few senior ministers urged chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to be more assertive and not wait for Dinakaran’s nod for administrative matters. Palaniswami’s grouse was that Dinakaran had snubbed him by excluding him from the party parliamentary board when it was reconstituted recently.
 
 Sources close to Dinakaran say he is not averse to contesting from R K Nagar, left vacant by Jayalalithaa’s death. His position, however, could become untenable if he or another party nominee loses the byelection, said analyst Raveenthiran Doraisamy.
 
 
