GUWAHATI: Education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday held a video-conference with deputy commissioners of the districts to be covered in the first phase of  , a four-day festival to assess the functioning of government schools in the state, starting on April 4. 

 Nine lakh primary school students from eight districts will be assessed in the mega exercise, adopted from the   edition of Gunotsav that began at the behest of   as chief minister of Gujarat about a decade ago.   chief minister  , along with his cabinet colleagues and senior IAS and IPS officers, will visit the classrooms individually to assess the ground situation in the schools run by the state government.
 
 "Gunotsav is being organized to celebrate merit and excellence. It is also a fact-finding mission for the state government to identify the loopholes where we need to work further to improve the quality of education. At the same time, our government will encourage those schools which perform well during the festival," said education minister Sarma at a news conference here on Tuesday. 
 
 During the festival, the chief minister and the education minister will be visiting schools in   ( ) district. Sarma said the mega exercise is not aimed at tightening the noose around schools as speculated by a section of the teachers. "Initially, no punitive measures will be taken up during Gunotsav," said Sarma, adding that the schools and teachers identified with 'anomalies' will get a chance to rectify the lapses before the hosting of another evaluation exercise next year. About Rs 15 crore was earmarked in the budget for 2016-17 for Gunotsav. 
 
 Sarma said the assessment will be done in government, provincilaised, tea garden-managed and composite schools this year. The first phase of Gunotsav will be conducted from April 4 to 7 in eight districts, covering 9,11,588 students of 12,320 schools in  , Chirang, Dibrugarh, Hailakandi, Kamrup (Metro), Lakhimpur, Morigaon and West Karbi Anglong districts. Lower primary and upper primary schools will be covered in Gunotsav and also include schools located in some of the most difficult terrains in the northeastern region.
 
 The education minister told the media that the fest has become a major calendar event for the Gujarat government and the Assam government wants to initiate the exercise to improve the quality of the government-run schools that face stiff competition from private schools.
 
