PATNA: The state government on Thursday raises its concern over the new methods of dredging and location of multi-mode terminals proposed under National Waterways (NW)-1 between Haldia and Allahabad.

 A meeting on the proposed waterways was held on Thursday between senior officials from the headquarters of Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) and chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh.
 
 Senior officials in the state water resources department (WRD) said the chief secretary expressed reservations on various aspects of the works proposed under development of the NW-1, including new methods of dredging and location of the multi-mode transport terminals.
 
 “The chief secretary said the state government is committed to ensuring incessant flow of the Ganga. However, the new dredging method, termed as low-intrusion water injection method, may affect the river ecosystem. Besides, the chief secretary asked the IWAI officials to give details regarding the location of the multi-mode transport terminals proposed in the NW-1 crossing through Bihar,” said a senior WRD official present in the meeting. 
 
 The Centre is developing NW-1 under the Jal Marg Vikas Project, with assistance from the World Bank, at an estimated cost of Rs4,200 crore. The project envisages development of fairway, multi-mode terminals at Varanasi, Haldia and Sahebganj, strengthening of river navigation system, conservancy works, modern river information system, digital global positioning system (DGPS) and night navigation facilities, among others.
 
 The WRD official said though the Centre has said no new barrages would be constructed under the NW-1, the state government is of the view that the dredging method proposed in its place may also affect the river ecosystem.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been repeatedly saying over the past few months that Bihar government is opposed to the NW-1 and it would not hesitate to move the Supreme Court to oppose it. In an international seminar organized on the theme of ‘Incessant Ganga’ on February 25, Nitish had said that dredging in the Ganga proposed under the NW-1 project would destroy the river. He is also against the idea of constructing riverine ports along the river.
 
 
