KOCHI: On Saturday, at the conference hall of a hotel in Munnar a group of students gave a scintillating dance performance before the start of an international seminar, which saw delegates from Sweden, Israel, Australia and the US. When it ended there was an applause which transformed into a standing ovation that lasted several minutes. Nothing unusual but for a simple fact: the children were all with special needs.

 The seminar on recent trends in special education was held as part of the 25th year celebrations of the Developmental Activities in Rehabilitative Education (Dare) School, Munnar, an institution which enabled them do many things in life, apart from dancing. Dare is a successful project in teaching the differently-abled children to survive in the normal world.
 
 Founded in 1991 by Dolly Lai, wife of a Tata Tea (now Tata a Tata Tea (now Tata  ) manager, as a centre for motor coordination and basic education,   started with five students. Over its 25 years of existence it has taught and trained 205 students. Currently, there are 62 students of 4 to 18 years of age.
 
 “Before we started in 1991, there was no avenue for these special children. They were left at home when their parents went to work and in 1991, for the first time, the disability was talked about. All the time it was a stigma and parents didn't want to talk about their children with special needs. Slowly, the task of the initial years was to bring these people out of their homes to the Dare School.So we started it with five or six children and gradually, as the word spread, the parents started sending their children here.Now, Dare alone has 65 students and the whole of Srishti with the four units, we have 165 associates,“ said Ratna Krishnakumar, managing trustee of Srishti Charitable Trust that runs the  , which houses Dare School.
 
 Children are taught life skills, reading and writing, basic mathematics and arts. “They are also taught how to cook, they are given money and a list to go to the market. They are readied to go to the outside world and fend for themselves. They cook their own midday meals and share with all others at the school,“ said Ratna.
 
 Rehabilitating the children was another question. “I started the strawberry preserve in Dare in 1994, since I felt that we needed to build a corpus of funds to fall back on, in case tea didn't do well one year and funds fall short. We made strawberry jam with locally grown fruit and packed them in recycled Horlicks bottles. We marketed it in Kolkata initially in a health food shop with typewritten labels. On receiving good response, we ventured forth to get an FPO [Food Products Order] licence and a professional packing. Today we manufacture thousands of kilos of strawberry preserve, guava jam, plum jam, orange mar malade with specially grown Seville oranges, passion fruit sauce, orange squash all without preservatives in a state of the art facility,“ Ratna said.
 
 After the age of 18, depending on their interests, students are sent to different units. Now, 12 are employed in Aranya, a natural dye and textile design unit while 20 are with Athulya, which manufactures recycled paper using cotton waste in combination with materials like elephant dung, marigold, straw, bamboo leaves, tea waste, carrot leaves or eucalyptus leaves. Another seven work in Nisarga, the fruit preserve unit, four in Deli, 12 in   and nine outside.
 
