BHOPAL: It is not just common people, even municipal corporators are utilising the open forum ‘Bhopal Choupal’ to address their grievances. Under pressure to deliver on promises,   has announced that the weekly choupal would now be held every fortnight. 

 On Monday,   corporator from ward 21, Vatsyayana Jain, raised the issue of poor water supply in his ward. He said the affected areas include Peer Gate to Itwara in walled city. Mayor Alok Sharma also belongs to the same ward. “For months, water supply has been affected. The supply is erratic due to inadequate pressure in pumping. BMC engineers have been unable to find a solution,” said Jain. There are three main water supply linkages for the area. Much of the dependence is on Kolar supply line. Partial supply is through newly laid Narmada supply line and some through water line from Bypass area. After hearing the complaint, mayor Sharma directed BMC officials to visit the area on Wednesday and solve the problem.
 
 Bhopal Choupal was held on Monday after a gap of almost a month. “A new trend is emerging in the public grievances rederessal forum. When people arrive in large groups and raise slogans, BMC is more likely to address their complaints. I have come to the choupal thrice, but my complaint is yet to be resolved,” said Rajesh, a resident of BHEL. Repeated complaints at choupal, account for a large number. Representatives from resident welfare associations (RWA) near Hoshangabad road reiterated their demand for individual Narmada water supply, better infrastructure and takeover of their colonies by BMC. “We have been told that seven files have been moved by the BMC since our complaint in April. We would ensure that mayor’s words are translated into action,” said Anshu Gupta, a resident of one of the colonies.
 
 In April during one of the choupal, RWAs from Hoshangabad road had raised their long standing demand of water and streetlight, besides their pending request for handover of their societies to BMC. Danish Nagar colony is one of the colonies that had demanded the takeover of its society by the BMC. These RWAs continue to carry a stack of files of pending requests to counter any question by BMC officials to circumvent their demand. 
 
 Girls from government school in Hinotiya Alam, a village in Kolar area, approached the choupal seeking resolution of basic needs. Sania Ali, Amisha Lobanshi and   spoke about the need for regular power supply, separate toilets for boys, repair of leaking roofs and benches for studying in their school. The school has a strength of about 100 students.
 
