Chennai: Southern Railway has abandoned plans to convert the Royapuram heritage railway station into the city’s fourth railway terminal — which distinction now goes to the   railway station.

 Southern Railway general manager Vashishtha Johri said various hindrances prevented the railways from making Royapuram station a terminal
 
 In 2014, then railway minister Sadananda Gowda announced in Parliament that Royapuram would be converted into Chennai’s fourth terminal. Southern Railway conducted a feasibility study and found that they needed vast tracts of land, including some from Stanley Medical College and Hospital, to construct the terminal at Royapuram.
 
 Residents of the area lobbied for the project, with then corporation mayor Saidai Duraisamy, Gowda and the only Union minister from Tamil Nadu, Pon Radhakrishnan, all backing the proposal. But railway officials stood firm and said that the project could be undertaken only if state government parted with the land.
 
 A railway official said Tondiarpet, 7km north of Chennai Central, can emerge as a full-sized terminal as there is ample land on the western and eastern side of the existing station to construct stabling lines (storage sidings where empty trains are stabled).
 
 A senior official told TOI that Southern Railway had submitted a proposal to Railways engineering consultant arm RITES last year regarding conversion of the Tondiarpet station into a full-fledged terminal. RITES conducted a feasibility study and said the project was feasible based on the vast space availability.
 
 “So the zonal railways has, in principle, agreed to start work on the project,” the official said.
 
 The terminal is a long-pending passenger demand as Chennai Central and Egmore — both locked-in in terms of space available — are saturated and a terminal is needed in north Chennai for north-bound trains.
 
 “If more trains have to be introduced, then we need more platforms, but there is no space to build them at Chennai Central and Egmore,” the official said. “Building a new terminal outside the city will enable the zone to have terminals for many trains. This way, we can decongest Chennai Central.”
 
 Tambaram, the city’s third terminal, will help decongest Egmore station.
 
 Southern Railway GM Johri, who said all stations in the zone would get toilets by March 31, noted that work to convert Tambaram into a coaching terminal is almost complete.
 
 
