Bengaluru: “Character, conviction, commitment, creativity and capability. These are the five Cs that will work for you in your career path”. Eminent banker Uday Kotak spoke these words as a group of enthusiastic graduates listened with rapt attention.

 Uday, executive vice-chairman and managing director, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited, was speaking at the 42nd convocation ceremony of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, on Monday. Pointing out that there’s been a dramatic change in the world order since the post-world war socialist economy, he said: “​In the late 70s to 80s, India made a transition from following the Soviet model into adopting a more liberal, social and economic order. The growth of Bengaluru, a village back then, into a mega city is the product of this change.”
 
 Sharing more nuggets with the motley audience, he urged the heads of institutions to uphold civil and economic liberty. Uday said transformations witnessed in 2016 have been a turning point in India. “Going into the world, you will find yourself in the middle of the cross-currents of the changing world order. But we must believe in free markets and free trade,” he told the students. ​
 
 A total of 598 students across courses were handed over graduation certificates. The ceremony also marked the welcome of the new IIMB director, Prof G Raghuram, who was faculty member at IIM Ahmedabad and former vice-chancellor, Indian Maritime University. 
 
 Twenty students from the fellow programme in management, 18 from the postgraduate programme in public policy and management, 75 from the postgraduate programme in enterprise management, four from the postgraduate programme in software enterprise management and 411 from the postgraduate programme in management received the certificates. 
 
 Among the eight gold medallists were Pranav Kumar Mallick, who worked as the director (budget) from 2012 to 2016 in the Union ministry of railways. 
 
 HONOUR ROLL: GOLD MEDALLISTS
 
 Udit Jalan | 1st rank in academic performance (Post Graduate Programme in Management 2015-17)
 
 Shishank Gupta | 1st rank (Post Graduate Programme in Enterprise Management 2015-17
 
 Nikhil Goyal | 1st rank – (Executive Post Graduate Programme in Management 2016-2017)
 
 Pranav Kumar Mallick | Best academic performance (Post Graduate Programme in Public Policy and Management 2016-17)
 
 Dharmendra Hiranandani | 2nd rank in academic performance (Post Graduate Programme in Management 2015-17)
 
 Suresh Ganesan | Best all-round performance (Post Graduate Programme in Enterprise Management 2015-17)
 
 Kushal Nitin Dalal | Best all-round performance (Executive Post Graduate Programme in Management 2016-2017
 
 Vaibhav Gupta | Best all-round performance (Post Graduate Programme in Management 2015-17)
 
 
