NEW DELHI: A day after PM   addressed the nation, chief minister and   convener   on Sunday demanded a "white paper" on the gains and losses from demonetisation over the past 50 days. He has also sought an independent inquiry on the ban on Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes. 

 Kejriwal called the PM's address "hollow" and said that the schemes mentioned in his speech could have been announced without enforcing a measure such as demonetisation. The CM even termed Modi's New Year's Eve speech a "sham" and sought responses from him and   on the amount of money deposited by people in banks.
 
 "We demand a thorough and impartial inquiry into the demonetisation mega-scam and a white paper should be brought out on what was achieved and what the country lost due to this exercise that led to more than 100 people losing their lives," Kejriwal said. "The white paper should disclose the cost to the nation in terms of fall in GDP growth, fall in production and agriculture production," he added.
 
 Taking on the claims of the PM, Kejriwal said that Modi had said that it will achieve four objectives - reduce corruption, curb black money, reduce terrorism and circulation of fake currency. "It has neither managed to curb black money nor reduce terrorism or circulation of fake currency as fake Rs 2,000 notes are available in the market. It has not yielded any tangible benefits and has, instead, led to a spike in corruption," Kejriwal alleged.
 
 "Modi is talking about a cashless economy. First, he should make BJP cashless, which is still accepting donations in cash. There's a list of 648 people who have Swiss bank accounts. The PM should have announced that these people will be arrested," he said.
 
 He added that people were hoping that the PM would at least announce the withdrawal of the 50-day restrictions imposed on taking out their own money deposited in banks.
 
  "It was also expected that the Prime Minister will share with the country what was lost and what was gained by his decision to ban Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes," the AAP convener said.
 
 
