BHOPAL: It's been three days since a   was registered against the  , but the mystery has only deepened with police hinting at the possibility of "new revelations" and a section of parents taking to the streets in support of the suspect. 

 Rashmi Mishra, additional SP-crime, said, "The suspect has been arrested but we are investigating the case from every angle to come to a perfect conclusion. The case can come up with new revelations. Nothing is cleared till the whole investigation is completed." The statement of the mother and the abused child were taken down in court on Thursday.
 
 It is significant to note that in offences under POCSO, the burden of proof is on the accused considering the vulnerability and innocence of children. To prevent misuse of the law, there is stiff punishment for false complaints.
 
 Even as police continue with their investigation, some parents were quick to give the accused a clean chit. They said they will approach the DGP with an application for "appropriate action to ensure fair investigation in the case".
 
 Radhika Shrivastav, whose four-year-old daughter goes to the preschool owned by the accused, said, "The allegations against him are utterly wrong we all are in his support. My daughter is going to that school since July and I am very much assured about her safety there. She was being picked and dropped by the owner but not once has she complained about his conduct. I have often asked her about the good touch and bad touch or if someone has troubled her in school but she always speaks well of the school and the staff over there, including the owners."
 
 Jaya Singh, whose three-year-old son is a preschooler in same school, said, "My boy is going to school since August and has been treated over there with care and safety. Once he complained that a staff grabbed his face after which the owner of school suspended the staff. For the last two days, my child has been asking when he can go back to school."
 
 "The owner of the school always maintains decorum in front of parents and never touches any child. He has been framed but we are going to support him and will try our best to prove his innocence," added Singh.
 
  Shashi Pandey said her three-and-a-half-year-old daughter is also picked and dropped by the owner and "she always feel safe". "I think our kids our more safe in the custody of the owner than with a cab driver. The man has a good character. Sooner or later his innocence will be proved," said Shashi. 
 
