GURUGRAM: A 60% drop in the   has been reported at the   in the city as the strike called by the cab drivers of the app-based aggregators completes a week.

 Nearly 1.5 lakh drivers went on a strike in Delhi-NCR from February 10, alleging that the app-based aggregators do not pay them adequately. Faced with massive inconvenience, the daily commuters were compelled to opt for alternate modes of public transport — buses, cars and the Metro.
 
 However, gradual reduction in snarls on city roads has been one of the upsides of the strike for many commuters and the authorities. On an average, the traffic control room in the city receives up to 150 calls a day to report traffic congestion on the roads. But following the strike, the number of calls has come down to nearly 50 a day. Despite the ongoing construction work at Rajiv Chowk and Iffco Chowk, no traffic jams have been reported here in the past one week, even during the rush hours. “This clearly indicates that the number of cabs is one of the biggest contributors to the constant snarls in the city. If we can control the number of vehicles, Gurgaon can be snarl-free one day,” said a senior traffic police official.
 
 Some office goers who spoke to TOI said they have been enjoying the smooth ride to work. “It usually takes more than one hour to reach Gurgaon from Nehru Place (in Delhi). But in the past three days, I took only 40 minutes to cover the same distance,” Dominic Pinto, an IT professional, said. A reduction in the fares by the autorickshaw drivers has also come as a pleasant surprise for the commuters. Even the app-based aggregators have been offering cheap auto rides, arguably, in a bid to win the loyalty of the customers. 
 
 “When I couldn’t get a cab using one of the apps, I booked an auto through the same app, and travelled from Udyog Vihar to DLF-2 for Rs 30,” said Himani Joshi, a daily commuter, and added, “The same distance usually costs me around Rs 80.”
 
 A Gurgaon resident, Shipra Gupta, who is a medical representative by profession, shared a similar experience. “I boarded an auto from Huda City Centre for Sector 46. He asked for Rs 50 and I insisted on paying Rs 20. The auto driver agreed,” she said. 
 
 Confiding that the strike of cab drivers has benefitted them, an auto driver shared, “We over-charged earlier as cabs cut down on our business. But we have been getting enough customers, so we have been charging nominally.”
 
 
