

 
 
 The win on three MLC seats is a clear reply to those who were opposing demonetization. The assembly elections would also see similar seats. In the first phase, the BJP would win not less than 50 seats and not more than 60 seats. Similarly, in phase II, the BJP would win more than 40 seats. Heavy turnout is a clear indication that voters have come out against Samajwadi Party government policies. 
 
 
 
 We have already mentioned that in the manifesto. The BJP is focused on building polytechnics, colleges, giving gareeb kalyan card etc. Corruption would come to an end. Whoever is guilty, be it Mayawati or Akhilesh, would be booked.
 
 
 
 The party will look into the matter when the time is right. Right now, talk about development. UP needs development most. We want to develop UP. Ayodhya issue has been taken seriously by the government, which is waiting for the court verdict. 
 
 
 
 There are no such plans as of now. 
 
 
 
 The BJP’s CM face are crores of party workers. Dearth of a face is with SP and BSP, where barring one individual and one family, no one can become a face.
 
 
 
 This is not the topic of UP BJP chief. The decision is taken by party’s Parliamentary board. Even that is no more relevant. As after the elections, party MLAs would elect their leader. The CM would be from UP and would be a BJP worker, for sure. 
 
 
 
 BSP is also in contention. Polling in the first phase indicated that Muslims were divided. At 20-odd seats in the first phase, the BSP is in contest and at 20-25 seats, Samajwadi Party is in contest. 
 
 
 
 Akhilesh ji should not be in any doubt. BJP is heading towards winning over 300 seats. BJP doesn’t need any crutches. Those who cheat people in the name of development need weak crutches like the Congress. 
 
 
 
 We have attacked all the parties. In my words, SP is saanpnath and BSP is naagnath. The two parties are like Rahu and Ketu. Since the time both these parties came to power, UP has stopped progressing. Mayawati began selling votes in the hands of capitalists. Had she given more votes to Dalits and OBCs than to Muslims, it would have been better. 
 
 
 
 Keshav Prasad Maurya doesn’t believe in agar-magar (if and but). The BJP is going to get not less than 300. 
 
 
 
 Ifs and buts go with BSP and SP. They have already accepted defeat. 
 
 
 
 A) Let bygones be bygones. It is the Modi era. It is an era of change and people would not let this opportunity for change slip from their hands. Let a BJP government come, all the sins they have committed would come to the fore. I am receiving information that Rs110 crore was being spent for Noida metro, while in Lucknow Rs200 crore is being spent. There is a hint of scam of Rs one billion per kilometre. They would be punished by the people. 
 
 
 
 BJP is getting over 300 seats. Mayawati’s era is over. You will not find an employee at the BSP office after March 11. 
 
 
 
 UP is an agrarian state. UP doesn’t need meat but milk. It is for this reason that the BJP has decided to strictly close the abattoirs and open one dairy at every four villages. Cattle conservation will help in increasing employment. 
 
 
 
 Development agenda is on top. But if any woman is facing a problem, the BJP will stand with the woman whether she is a Muslim or a Hindu. However, the unfortunate fact is that most vulnerable of the women are from Muslim community only as in the name of triple talaq their life is being made hell. 
 
 
 
 Yogi ji is a very popular figure in UP and also the party’s star campaigner. He would go wherever the party decides. He has received tremendous support in West UP. 
 
 
 
 Yogi ji is a very big leader of the BJP. He has always commanded respect. Whenever the party feels his need, he is roped in. 
 
 
 
 
 BJP is a democratic party. Every worker has the right to express his views. However, the final decision rests with the party. Once a decision has been taken, all the workers put their energy in ensuring the victory of the candidate. Decision on Varanasi (South) seat has also been taken. Existing candidate Neelkanth Tiwari would contest on a BJP ticket and sitting MLA Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhary would be made the MLC on first opportunity.
 
 
