CHENNAI: A jail moves with a refugee wherever he goes. Even though a lot has been talked about the Tamils who started migrating to India after the genocide in   since the 1980s, nothing has been changed. For them, hope still remains a mirage. Identified as `illegal immigrants' in government gazettes, at least a lakh still live in various refugee camps in Tamil Nadu without basic needs.  's `Idukkan' (suffering), a 15-minute documentary , highlights the pathetic conditions of refugees in a camp in Trichy . A life full of misery and agony , some refugees try to flee illegally to foreign countries. The documentary portrays the plight of a young refugee who tries to board a ship to Australia in search of better pastures.

 Chandrasekar travelled to many refugee camps in Tamil Nadu. Stories followed one after the other. Although he wanted to shoot inside some refugee camps, it didn't work. “I myself witnessed a number of such camps. I wanted to do something for the refugees who are caught betwe en the devil and deep sea. I finished the post-production work a year ago, but I couldn't release it due to some issues related to censorship,“ said Vetrivel Chandrasekar, who has written and directed the documentary. `Idukkan' was recently released by Bench Flix, a short film and documentary promoter.
 
 “Everyone would have heard about the Sri Lankan tamil refugee camps in Tamil Nadu, and most probably would have come across certain news headlines like `Tamil refugees disappeared from camps', `Sri Lankan refugees trapped at sea', but still the reason for their ideas behind illegal immigration is unknown. I am trying to find the reason through my documentary,“ he said. Chandrasekar said it was difficult for him to find a sponsor for his work.“Finding sponsors for a subject like this is always difficult. So I had to spend from my pocket. And some friend helped. I am glad that the documentary is getting tremendous response now,“ said Chandrasekar.
 
 “As their citizenship is denied, it is difficult for them to find a decent job. To evade this, many venture to move out to foreign countries illegally. My documentary talks about one such tragic incident,“ he said. Produced by   of Sengodi Productions, music for `Idukkan' is done by Yarl Prabhakaran.
 
