If you happen to see a group of youngsters armed with their cameras early in the morning and wonder what they are up to? Well, there are quite a few young shutterbugs in the city who gather every week for a   session at a new place and explore Nagpur through their lenses. But what is interesting to note here is now even foreign nationals are joining in to organise photo walk in the city and honing the photography skills of the amateurs. 

 Recent example is, a photo walk session organised at   by a Brazilian photographer Alessandra Ramos which saw over 50 participants. “This is the second time we have organised a photo walk session in the city— first at Ambazari Lake and now at Seminary Hills,” says Alessandra and adds, “Nagpur is blessed with unique sites and through this endeavour, we want to explore different parts of the city and capture its true essence. The best part is that one doesn’t have to pay any fee to be a part of this experience.”
 
 As the walk started from the Van Bala station, across the train tracks, participants spotted resident birds like Magpie Robin chirping in the green habitat. A wildlife photography enthusiast   who was clicking plenty of pictures of the birds says, “Seminary Hills is photo-walkers’ paradise. Here, one can spot birds like owl and Indian Pitta, which make the experience of photo walk worthwhile. There’s always something new and unexpected to spot at Seminary Hills. For the past three years, I have been clicking pictures of nature and wildlife, but in photo walk, one can share information about birds, history of the place etc. which empowers you intellectually.”
 
 While a group was focusing the cameras at birds, we also spotted youngsters clicking pictures of insects too. Another participant   says, “I love clicking pictures of insects and butterflies, but I had no idea how to identify them. But through this photo walk, I have met many like me who have deep knowledge about insects and their biological facts which is really interesting and it is quite a learning experience for me.” Another youngster   says, “I post pictures of nature, birds and insects on Facebook and Instagram quite regularly and while they receive many likes and comments, people interested in nature photography express their wish to join us for next photo walk. And it is great to see that our pictures inspire many to join.”
 
