Bhopal: Congress party will hold a demonstration outside Reserve Bank of India (RBI) premises against demonetisation ‘mismanagement’ and its fallout on Wednesday. Former Union leader and senior party leader Mukul Wasnik will lead the demonstration along with Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha. This is part of the nationwide stir, the call for which is given by All India Congress Committee (AICC) against demonetisation of high-value currency.

 The AICC on Tuesday sent MP and eminent lawyer Vivek Tankha to take stock of the situation, a day after police action on NSUI workers even as state Congress president Arun Yadav is still getting treated in a private hospital for injuries. On Tuesday, he tweeted: “I am injured, not dejected. Will come to PCC at 7:30 pm to see preparation for protest at RBI. Will meet injured NSUI cadres. Fight begins.” The doctors, however did not discharge him.
 
 “The way Congress state president Arun Yadav and NSUI national president Amrita Dhawan have been beaten by the police for no reason shows the assault was planned,” Tankha said. He said the brutal police action on NSUI demonstration was to inculcate fear into the Congress party. “The AICC has sent me to monitor the situation and give them a report. AICC and state PCC will work shoulder to shoulder to see that no fear politics is permitted in this country. Legal action will also be taken.”
 
 Tankha accused that state police is working like a wing of the ruling BJP. “There is need to bring back democracy. In the next few days, you will see Congress action on the streets,” he said.
 
 He, however, refused to mention the name of minister of state Sanjay Pathak in the Rs 500 crore Katni hawala scam. While the NSUI workers were lathi-charged during an agitation demanding the removal of Sanjay Pathak from the Shivraj Singh Chouhan council of ministers, Tankha refused to accuse Pathak as part of the hawala scam. “A good lawyer, politician and journalist do not take anyone’s name till it comes up in an investigation. That is why we want investigation to take place while the government refuses to have a probe,” he said.
 
 The Rajya Sabha MP, however, said a petition has been filed in the HC on the Katni hawala scam and he will meet lawyers there and hold a meeting. Asked why top central leaders from the state are not taking the name of Pathak in the hawala scam, Tankha said, “Nobody is quiet on the issue. Everyone will take his name. That is why we want the investigation. Everyone is following the case.”
 
 
