BENGALURU: Seegehalli Lake near K R Puram foamed for the first time on Wednesday morning.“The   has started resembling  , and it looked like  . The foaming started at 3.30am and went on for more than five hours, with foam gathering on the road as well. This is the first time I've seen foam in this lake,“ said Anil Kumar Yadav, a resident of nearby White City Layout.

 The overnight rain came as a shocker for residents of HSR Layout as Somasundarapalya Lake began to froth.“This is like a mini-Bellandur. The lake has been overflowing, foaming as well.This is not the first time, but the situation is only worsening,“ said Lalithamba B V, who lives closer to the lake bed in HSR Layout. She said the overflowing lake led to flooding in HSR Layout, leaving basements and roads inundated.
 
 Begur Lake in south Bengaluru overflowed on Wednesday, leading to a flood-like situ ation in Vishwapriya Layout.“The water is overflowing from the lake to the roads in my ward. The problem is due to non-uniform width of the storm water drain,“ said M Anjanappa, Begur corporator.
 
 Lake breach spells trouble for residents near
 
 Nelamangala Binnamangala Lake near Nelamangala in Bengaluru Rural district, which had reportedly breached its banks earlier this month, became a danger zone for residents in the vicinity on Wednesday too.“The lake breach happened at around 2am in Adakamaranahalli, which is about 3km from Nelamangala. There was some damage, with the roads getting flooded as well,“ said H G Sujatha Prakash, president of the Nelamangala town municipal council.
 
 Residents living around the Sadaramangala Lake in KR Puram said the waterbody was reclaiming its old boundaries, and had filled up for the first time in six months. “Due to the continuous rain, the surrounding areas had been flooded.However, two days ago, the BBMP came and made a cut, to ensure that the water entered the lake. Now, the lake has filled up and is almost back to its original self,“ said Sunil Malapat, a local resident.
 
 10K CHICKEN DIE AT FARM
 
 A bout 10,000 chicken died in a poultry farm in Giddenahalli, near Nelamangala because of Tuesday night's rain.The chicken, valued at approximately Rs 15 lakh, belonged to Annaiyappa who runs the poultry farm. It has been suspected that the chicken died due to the cold weather induced by the rain.Sources also said the farm was waterlogged, which could be the cause of their death.
 
