The   high command has decided to hold a five-day strategy session next week of the top party leaders and legislators of the poll-bound Karnataka- the only South Indian state which is currently ruled by Congress, with the aim of preparing early for next year’s Assembly   and finding ways to reinforce unity in the faction ridden state Congress, sources said.
 
  The party session at Bengaluru from May 22 to 26 could be followed with a revamp of the state Congress, appointment of a new   president, and perhaps a reshuffle of the Cabinet headed by   as well.
  
  While AICC general secretary in-charge KC Venugopal will preside over the meeting as the representative of the party high command, he would be flanked by Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and PCC chief G  . Among others who have been directed to attend the meeting are party functionaries from all 30 districts of Karnataka, including PCC office bearers, DCC presidents, state ministers, party MLAs, MPs and former party legislators. The Chief Minister and the PCC chief have been asked to cancel all other programmes to be present at the meeting.
  
  One of the main tasks of the meeting would be to find ways to forge internal unity as the state Congress is divided between the Siddaramaih camp and followers of Mallikarju Kharge. Keen to maintain the balance between the two groups, AICC sources said Siddaramaih will continue as the CM, while Kharge will carry on as the Congress floor leader in the   with the recently acquired additional post of PAC chairman.
  
  However, Parameshwara, who is carrying on as PCC chief even after becoming the state Home Minister, will make way for a new PCC chief by the end of this month.
  
  Implementation of the programme and policies of the state government during the past four years and a review of the Congress’ organistatioal programmes are on cards at the meeting where participants will be encouraged to have a free and constructive discussion.
  
  Ideas will be invited on how to reinforce the state government’s and party unit’s connect with the people to take on the BJP in the next year’s Assembly polls. Though there have been some talks of Congress and JD(S) exploring an alliance, sources say, the party task is to counter both BJP and JD(S) as traditional turf rivals. 
