It’s the age of easy technology and apps that help create snazzy   and modify vocal renditions, yet there is that niggling feeling that something is missing in the music world. Genuine effort, maybe? 

 When is the last time you heard of a singer/musician putting in hours of   before recording a song? Can that compare to the few hours spent on the computer to polish and present a voice? 
 
 Composer   shares, “I have seen my father (musician Kali Ganguli) recording. For one song, they’d rehearse for seven days and the final take would be mellifluous. That one song would have a little soul of everyone involved, including musicians, singers and the composer.” And it is this amalgamation of sensibilities, melody and pure music that is missing in songs now, agree musicians unanimously. 
 
 
 
 Till a few decades ago, recording was a different ball game altogether, where retakes meant that the singers had to re-sing the entire antara/mukhda. But now, singers are allowed to break words. 
 
 Sonu Nigam, who began playback singing at 18, explains, “We did not have an option to disconnect then. For example, a word like Kuch, can be recorded as ‘Ku’ and ‘ch’ separately now. But a retake then meant singing the entire mukhda all over again. We couldn’t do anything in between lines or words. Constant riyaaz was a necessity, not an option.”
 
 
 
 Composer Anu Malik says, ‘Since there is so much technology around, people are playing with it. It comes naturally to the new generation because they are born with it and cannot think of life without it.” Singer   says that pitch correction has become a norm in voice recording these days. He adds, “New or established, all voices are put through auto tuning. Sometimes it is done mindlessly.” 
 
 Composer   says, “The biggest advantage of digitalisation is the use of various recording softwares which record multiple takes, that helps the musician choose the best one. Voice pitching softwares, however, aren’t new as they’re generally used in almost every vocal recording.” 
 
 
 
 Technology is helpful, but only to a certain extent. Says Jeet, “Singers who are dependent on digital audio pitch correction software cannot last more than two-three songs. But a singer like Sonu doesn’t need anything; he not only records at one go, but is also pitch perfect. There is a heaven-and-hell difference between him and the singers of today. That’s not saying that there are no singers who can sing in sur and taal, but they don’t want to sing without digital help.” 
 
 Mannan recalls, “Once, a singer called me after hearing his final song and said that he wanted voice pitching done, as he wasn’t in tune. I was reluctant to do that because I believe in keeping the voice natural and raw. He finally agreed after hearing the song multiple times.”
 
 
 
 Taking Muskurane ki wajah tum ho as an example, Jeet says that if we split that sentence and record it separately, it loses its soul. “Singers need to do standing notes (the last note that is held on to for long) when they come in front of the microphone. When singers don’t practise these things, they get caught when they go live. Their lack of riyaaz shows.”
 
 Composers say that some don’t even sing the entire track — if there is a repeat of the mukhda, it is copy pasted. This affects the quality of the song. “There is no variation at all the second time.” Singer   adds, “These softwares are crutches for the ones handicapped due to lack of knowledge or riyaaz.”
 
 
 
 Voice pitching is a boon as well as a curse, say composers. Overuse can spoil the quality and make the song mechanical and monotonous. Sonu feels, “Agar yeh software, apps and digital enhancements nahin hote toh accha hota. Real singers would have worked harder. Those who have given their life to music feel a little discouraged when they see someone mediocre being hyped for a hit song. Science, technology and society keeps changing and we have to adapt ourselves to it.” 
 
 He, however, feels that technology has now become an extension of ego, where a composer feels he can make anyone a singer with technology. 
 
 
 
 Sonu adds, “For instance,   like to use less of pitch correction softwares and more of natural voice. They are talented and musically inclined. I don’t think they would work with a non-singer.” 
 
 
 
 Anu Malik adds, “Touching up a song with different softwares will be fine for one or two songs, but you cannot overdo it. The public is smart and can see through everything. Besides, original music is coming back again. I make sure what I create is fresh and have mostly been appreciated for it. With due respect to youngsters, they can use all the technology they want to create great sounds, but people can recognise pure talent.”
 
 
