GHAZIABAD: Ghaziabad residents living along   do not seem much convinced in the promise of NHAI ( ) to complete the widening of the highway from four lanes to 14 lanes in the scheduled time.

 In response to a recent complaint filed by Alok Kumar on December 26, 2016, a resident of Indirapuram and the founder of Federation of Association of Apartment Owners, the NHAI authorities have said that the work would be completed by December 2018, which accounts to a period of 910 days. "The National Highways Authority of India has maintained its promise of completing the widening of NH 24 in the stipulated time frame," said Alok Kumar.
 
 The project was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 31, 2015.
 
 For a long time, the residents of Indirapuram and Crossings Republik townships have complained of spending hours on the highway due to severe traffic congestion. Commuters face extreme traffic snarls especially on intersections such as Sector 62 Noida, Kala Patthar, Khoda and the main arterial road joining Crossings Republik to Noida. However, the widening of the highway is set to put an end to this traffic mess.
 
 The road-widening project of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is being undertaken in three sections - from Nizamuddin Bridge in Delhi to UP Gate, from UP Gate to Dasna, and from Dasna to Hapur. It starts at NH 44 near Nizamuddin Bridge, intersects NH 34 at Lal Kuan, and goes on to join NH 9 in Hapur. According to the response, the contracts have already been awarded for Nizamuddin Bridge in Delhi to UP Gate and Dasna to Hapur. While, bids for the work on the stretch from UP Gate to Dasna are under evaluation, the response also maintains that efforts are being made to complete the stretch between Delhi to Hapur by December 2018.
 
 Residents said that despite being under progress from December 2015, the project has seen very little development till date.
 
 Speaking to Times of India, Madhuri Gupta, a resident of Ashiana Greens, a residential society in Indirapuram located a few hundred meters away from the highway, said that the project was inaugurated a year and a month ago but hardly five percent of the work has been completed. "They have been working at an extremely slow pace and 2016 has ended, how they will complete the work in the remaining time needs to be seen," added Gupta.
 
 Echoing similar views, Sanjay Jha, a resident of Crossings Republic, a township said that it is tragic that a major development work concerning the welfare of lakhs of residents has been stalled for so long. "Although we have written assurance from NHAI, we don't have in it. We have not seen much work done in the last one year since inauguration of the project," Jha added.
 
