CHANDIGARH: The procedure for   of Masol, a Punjab village 18km from Chandigarh, has been   even  , revealed an official document accessed by The Times of India on Monday.

 While the ASI had first contacted the district administration for protecting the fossils in March 2016, it had subsequently sent a proposal to the Mohali deputy commissioner’s (DC’s) office in January to prepare a revenue schedule (a document comprising information about the ownership of land to be acquired for protection status). However, the ASI did not get a reply from the DC office even though it sent repeated reminders, showed the document.
 
 An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said the revenue schedule had to be countersigned by the DC and then be sent to the ASI headquarters in New Delhi for a decision on how to go about protecting the site. “It is like the first stage of protecting the site,” said Vinod Singh Rawat, ASI’s Chandigarh circle deputy superintending engineer.
 
 From January 1 to June 1, the ASI first sent a communication to the DC office in January to clarify on the 4 lakh owners of the 152 acres that had been identified in Masol and nearby areas for protection, following this it had sent three written reminders in February, March, and April. Apart from the written reminders, an ASI team had even visited the DC office in March. “In the meeting, the PA (personal assistant) to DC told our team that the revenue record submitted by the ASI for countersignature had been forwarded to Majri tehsildar for ‘re-verification’. After ‘re-verification’, the DC office will get back to the ASI within a week,” the document read.
 
 When contacted, Kharar SDM Amaninder Kaur said no Masol-related file of the ASI was pending with her. “I have submitted all work to the DC office,” she told TOI. “There was confusion over 4 lakh owners, we have clarified in the file that it was four lakh marlas and not four lakh owners.”
 
 On the other hand, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra put the onus on ASI. “It is the duty of the ASI (to protect the site); we are ready to help it anytime — be it with police or administrative assistance of any kind,” she said.
 
 Rawat said they had been sending reminders for more than a year now. “We have sent all requisite documents,” he said.
 
 ‘Not 4L owners, it’s 4L marlas’
 
 Clarifying confusion over earlier news reports that over four lakh people owned 152 acres in Masol and nearby areas, Kharar SDM Amaninder Kaur said the record did not have that many owners. “In my report to the DC office, I have clarified that it is 4 lakh marlas, not 4 lakh owners,” she said.
 
 
