PATNA: Representatives of over 60 firms from India and abroad, who participated in Bihar IT and ITeS Investors  , were upbeat with the initiative of Nitish Kumar government, but said relentless efforts needed to gain momentum in IT and electronics manufacturing sectors in the state.

 “The conclave was a good platform for interaction between the industry players and the government. We got to know about the dedication of the government and the level of support being provided by it. Microsoft, per se, is interested in providing its technical support for startups in Bihar, which could further lead to digital transformation in key sectors, including agriculture and healthcare,” said Sanjeev Gupta, general manager, Microsoft India.
 
 Ankur Sabharwal, country category manager, Digital India, HP India Sales Pvt Ltd, was of the view that an ecosystem comprising manufacturers, suppliers and buyers is imperative for growth of IT sector.
 
 “It is great to see the willingness of Bihar government and the trends in the IT sector here. My personal suggestion would be to ensure a complete ecosystem of manufacturers, suppliers and buyers in order to create a conducive environment for firms from outside to operate here,” Sabharwal said.
 
 Kanwar Jit Singh, vice-president (technology), Tejas Networks Ltd, said Bihar should focus on growth of niche sectors in the IT industry. “There is no need of reinventing the wheel in IT sector in Bihar. The state should probably identify few niche segments like cyber security or medical electronic equipment or defence equipment and focus on them. This would ensure competitiveness for the state in the national or international market,” Singh said.
 
 David Nam, CEO of South Korea-based NX Technology said his firm would be interested in setting up a project in Bihar based on usage of ‘Internet of things’ technology in power manufacturing sector.
 
 Pankaj Mohindroo, national president of Indian Cellular Association, was also all praise for Bihar government. “Most firms got a good feedback from this conclave about a strong and determined government. It looks like a good team headed by the CM and the only requirement is relentless effort to gain momentum in growth of the IT sector here,” Pankaj said. 
 
 
