BHOPAL: Increasing the quantum of punishment,   authorities on Friday decided to impose a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on 14 students for the “indiscipline that led to the drowning of a student” on March 4.

 These students will not get their degrees until they pay the amount, stated MANIT authorities. Incidentally, the president of the students’ council, who was among the 14 students, has been removed from his post. On March 4, a gettogether of final-year MANIT students on campus ended in a tragedy when 24-year-old Abhay  , a native of   in  , drowned. Police had found beer and liquor bottles at the spot. These 14 students were part of that party. MANIT had then evicted these 14 students, including the students’ council president, from hostel and fined them Rs 50,000. However, MANIT authorities have now increased the fine so that it acts as a deterrent for students in future.
 
 A senior member of the disciplinary committee of MANIT confirmed the increase in fine. “Let other students realise that any kind of indiscipline on MANIT campus won’t be tolerated. A bright student lost his life just because of a party,” he said. MANIT authorities have also decided to send the money collected in the form of fine to the father of deceased.
 
 The recommendations of the proctorial board and the disciplinary committee were sent to MANIT director NS Chaudhary. The director and other members of the board agreed on increasing the fine. Students had admitted before the committee that they were present at the party and one of them was present there during the incident. MANIT authorities said students should have informed them that a liquor party was on. “Instead they went ahead and joined it,” said a faculty.
 
 On May 1, the proctorial board of MANIT had announced the punishment. Anand, a final-year student of civil engineering, had joined the party that included third-year students as well. In the morning, final-year students attended a photo session with the director and decided to celebrate their passing-out near the pond before leaving the college. On the same night, the area around the pond turned into a picnic spot for students. While recording their statements before police, many students had admitted to being drunk at the party. An internal probe committee found that the president and another member of the students’ council joined the liquor party. The board had also found that campus security wasn’t good and suggested strengthening it. 
 
