DEHRADUN: They are young and want to make a mark of their own. Taking the baton from their parents, who have already carved a niche in the state politics, the political inheritors of  's senior politicians are trying to hit the ground running. The young MLAs, even before taking the oath of office, have started drawing the road maps for their constituencies. 

  Senior leader Yashpal Arya's son   - the new Nainital MLA - has chalked out plans to revive the famous city lakes and bolster road connectivity in the region. 
 
  Saurav Bahuguna, the son of former chief minister  , has decided to focus on building a 100-bed hospital in his Sitarganj constituency. He also wants to create job opportunities for youth and sportspersons. The long-pending demand of the sizable Bengali population in his constituency, which has been seeking ST status, is also on the list of Bahuguna. 
 
  BJP veteran Maj Gen (retd) BC Khanduri's daughter, Ritu Khanduri, has plans to improve road connectivity and education facilities in Yamkeshwar, from where she was elected. The "young turks" will take oath as legislatures on Tuesday. Nainital MLA Sanjeev Arya says: "The receding level of lake water is a cause of worry for me. Improving the health of the lake is one of my top priorities. The lake is the identity of my district." 
 
  "I am monitoring the lake revival plan prepared by the experts and also planning to get a fresh study done on depleting water-level of lakes and water bodies in the area for a long-term strategy," said Arya. 
 
  The BJP leader also said that improving the hospitals and health facilities in Nainital is another thrust area for him. 
 
  While Ritu Khanduri says that her focus will be on road connectivity, education and health sectors. "I want to work on the road projects to ensure better accessibility in my constituency," she said. On the education front, Khanduri said: "Government schools in Yamkeshwar do not offer students the option to select stream subjects of their choice (arts or science). I will ask the education minister to look into this matter at the earliest so that we can give students the choice by the start of the new session." 
 
  For Saurabh Bahuguna, younger son of Vijay Bahuguna, building a 100-bed super specialty hospital in Sitarganj is one of the first priorities as legislatures. "I want this hospital so that people of Sitarganj don't go to Haldwani or far off places for treatment. I will overhaul the existing hospitals also," said Bahuguna. Spelling out another priority, Bahuguna said: "I will work towards getting the ST status and land right to Bengalis, who have a sizable population in my constituency." Being a sportsman himself, Bahuguna wants to nurture sports talent, not just in Sitarganj but across the state. 
 
  "There is a lot of sports talent in Uttarakhand. I am planning to set up facilities in the Sitarganj stadium and help promising sports personnel," said Bahuguna. 
 
