PUDUCHERRY: The Union government proposes to increase spending on the   from the present 1.9% of the   (GDP) to 2.5% of the  , said   of state (health and family welfare)  .

 Kulaste was in Puducherry on Thursday to launch a telemedicine network established by Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research (Jipmer) in association with the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec) during the foundation day celebrations of the institute. Bimstec is an international collaborative effort involving the countries of Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Bhutan and Nepal.
 
 Addressing the gathering Kulaste said the Union government has taken all necessary measures to improve the health services throughout the country by increasing medical and paramedical staff members in all the hospitals and healthcare institutions. He pointed out that the Union government has increased the number of undergraduate and postgraduate seats to 30,000 in the country. He said the introduction of National eligibility cum entrance tests (Neet) has ensured that only meritorious students join medical courses.
 
 Appreciating Jipmer for launching efforts to upgrade and revise its undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum he insisted on introducing new courses to keep pace with the rapidly changing fields of medicine in order to meet the new challenges of healthcare and medical education.
 
 He said the Union government has accorded approval to Jipmer to commence liver transplantation. The main aim of Bimstec is ‘technological and economic cooperation among countries along the coast of Bay of Bengal’. He said Bimstec is an important aspect of the ‘Act East’ policy of the Union government envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 “The objective of Jipmer-Bimstec telemedicine network is to improve regional cooperation in the field of healthcare by strengthening telemedicine-based patient care services and share medical knowledge among Bimstec countries,” he said.
 
 He expressed optimism that the network will enable healthcare professionals from the member countries to interact regularly with each other and improve their knowledge. This will ultimately translate into improved access to healthcare especially to those residing in remote areas or the areas where there is shortage of trained manpower. He congratulated the Jipmer team for establishing the network for the benefit of the poor population of the Bimstec region. 
 
 “This will indeed be an important step towards fulfilling the dream of our honouranble Prime Minister of developing sustainable regional international cooperation with East Asia and will help to further strengthen the bonds of friendship between the friendly-people of our countries in this region,” he said.
 
 High Commissioner of Bangladesh to India Syed Muazzem Ali, Deputy High Commissioner of Sri Lanka in Southern India Vadivel Krishnamoorthy, representatives from Bimstec countries, Jipmer president M K Bhan, director S C Parija, and medical superintendent J Balachander also spoke.
 
