NEW DELHI: The temperatures have prematurely hit summer levels in Delhi, but people will have to wait for some time before they can head to the 15 sports complexes with swimming facilities operated by the  . Usually, these are opened to the public by the first week of April, but this year Delhi Police’s licensing department is yet to permit their use by swimmers.

 It is confirmed that swimming is allowed currently only at the Siri Fort and Yamuna sports complexes. Some   officials claimed that they were permitted on Thursday to let the public use the facilities at Munirka and Vasant Kunj.
 
 “There is no pendency in giving licences for   so long as the agency concerned has received no-objection certificates from the sports authority and civic bodies. Even in the absence of NOCs, we usually issue provisional certificates,” said a Delhi Police spokesperson. 
 
 At Baba Gang Nath complex in Munirka, an official said, “The facility is ready, but we don’t have the licence to operate and have only been told that we will get the permission soon.” Similar responses were received at swimming pools in Rohini and Dilshad Garden.
 
 When TOI made anonymous calls to the DDA sport complexes at Hari Nagar, Rohini and Chilla, the staff there said information about pool use would be available only after April 20 or even as late as the first week of  . The staff at   and the two Netaji   in Ashok Vihar and Jasola all said that their pools were under renovation.
 
 DDA officials admitted to a delay in applying to the police licensing department. “We give our swimming facilities to contractors to run in the hot season. This tendering process got delayed and so we couldn’t apply to the licensing department in time,” explained a senior DDA official. “But we are in touch with the licensing department about clearing our files at the earliest.”
 
 Other officials revealed that DDA has requested Delhi Police to approve the applications by April 25. “We are hopeful of getting the permissions by that date. We will then immediately open the facilities for the public,” said an official.
 
 In the absence of affordable sports infrastructure, especially for swimming, people depend on the DDA sports complexes. The facilities at these facilities are well-maintained and reasonably priced. Every year, thousands of people apply for membership, mostly temporary registrations, to use the facilities.
 
 
