AMRITSAR: While the state government is waiting for expert’s suggestions on farm loan waiver, another debt ridden farmer in the state commited suicide. Jagjit Singh, consumed poisonous substance to end his life on Sunday setting in motion the farm bodies to bellow customary hyperbole on governments failure and farmers ordeals which gradually wanes until next suicide attempt.

 Farmer leaders are of view that given the grave situation, bringing Farmers Income Guarantee Act (FIGA), assuring purchase of all the crops having maximum selling price (MSP), providing remunerative prices to crops as per Swaminathan Commission recommendations are few among other measures to preclude increasing suicidal tendencies among distressed farmers else farmers anger will spill on roads.
 
 While stating that government had fixed MSP of 14 crops but assures purchase of only wheat and paddy for the reasons best know to it. general secretary of Jamhuri Kissan Sabha Kulwant Singh told TOI that in absence of assured purchase the farmers resist taking risk of cultivating crops other than wheat and paddy which had high input cost as compared to their purchase price thus forcing farmers to take loans and were trapped in debt cycle.
 
 On Sunday, resident of Lohaka village in Tarn Taran district Jagjit Singh, said to have been reeling under heavy debt.
 
 “Had there been FIGA, such precious lives could have been saved” opined general secretary of   Rattan   who also informed that they had demanded from district administration to give a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to next of kin of deceased, government job to a family member and complete waiver of debt ridden farmers loan.
 
 In recent past, Amarinder Singh government had constituted an experts group to assess the quantum of farmers debt and suggest ways and means to waive of their loans. The committee has been asked to submit its report within two months.
 
 Claiming that on an average three farmers were committing suicide in Punjab , state vice-president of   Sarwan Singh Pandher alleged that ever since the   government came in power, the incidents of humiliation of debt ridden farmers by bank officials and kurki of their land had increased which in return has resulted in large number of incidents of farmers suicides. He said not only the Congress government should waive off complete loans of farmers but they should provide fresh long term loans on 1% annual interest.
 
