Barcelona:   Electronics on Sunday launched two new   as it tries to shrug off the woes that gripped the company in the wake of the Galaxy   smartphone recall last year.

 The Korean major unveiled the Samsung Galaxy Tab S3 and the Samsung Galaxy Book and said it would have a smartphone related event on March 29. It did not disclose whether it would be the Galaxy S8 which it did not launch at the   underway in this Spanish city.
 
 The Korean electronics giant is also betting big on 5G to drive its next phase of growth and detailed some of the future plans at the Mobile World Congress, the annual gathering of the mobile industry. The Galaxy S8 is seen as a crucial device from the company, which is emerging from the bruising impact of the Galaxy Note 7 recall after its batteries turned out to be fire risks.
 
 “The past six months have undoubtedly been one of the most challenging periods in our history. We did not meet the high standards of quality and excellence we set for ourselves and the consumers have come to expect from us,” said David Lowes, Senior vice president and CMO of Samsung Electronics Europe
 
 “We are determined to learn every possible lesson and we recognise that regaining consumer trust can only be earned by actions, not words. Following internal and third-party investigations, we have implemented a broad range of processes to further enhance product safety,” he said.
 
 Tim Baxter, president and COO, Samsung Electronics America said the company invested heavily in 5G because it believes in its promise. He said 5G will be ultra-fast, gigabyte speeds, will enable 4K movies downloaded in seconds, in car infotainment, multiple camera angles of your favourite sports events, lag free gaming, self -driving cars.
 
 “You can expect the first commercial network deployment early next year. In fact, we have already set up regional trials with three commercial versions of the products announced today in markets such as the US, Korea and Japan. A few days ago, we announced an upcoming trial in UK,” said Baxter.
 
 The two tablets launched on Sunday have a 13-megapixel rear camera with auto focus and a 5-megapixel front camera. Samsung Galaxy Tab S3 has a 9.7-inch display while the Samsung Galaxy Book will be available in two sizes: 10.6-inch and 12-inch displays.
 
 The tablets also include expandable storage, and fast-charge capabilities. Both devices also support Pogo keyboards with no separate charging or pairing required. Tab S3 is the first Samsung tablet to feature quad-stereo speakers tuned by AKG by HARMAN. The Galaxy Book is a Windows 10 device, while the Galaxy S3 runs on Android 7.0 (Nougat).
 
 (The writer is in Barcelona at the invitation of Samsung)
 
 
