For decades,   had a familiar ritual. After picking up the newspaper, their eyes would reflexively move towards their  . In a few seconds, they would invariably break into a smile.  , the iconic pocket cartoon by the legendary RK Laxman, would set the tenor of their day.

 But Laxman's cartoons brought much more than a degree of mirth to their mundane lives. They were wry social commentaries reminding everyone of the inequity around. A bunch of crisp words and a few clean lines -and you had a perceptive snapshot of the social or political mood. The cartoons captured the truth of the times.
 
 Laxman's work had irony and wit but never bile. In one such, villagers look at their cyclone-ravaged homes. One of them, half-smiling, tells another: “Sixty thousand crore loss! But for the cyclone we would have never known we are so rich.“
 
 
  
  
 
 In another, a politician setting out on a seven-nation tour asks a colleague: “By the way, tell me what bilateral talks I should have on what and with whom.“
 
 Of course, his lead actor, the Common Man, is everywhere. Too helpless to change things around him, the Common Man seems to know the virtues of being speechless. His silence spoke volumes.
 
 Laxman is gone. But in these intense times, when everyone screams, few listen, the cartoonist is more important than ever. For the joy a cartoonist brings isn't of a mindless TV show or an asinine potboiler. Cartoonists make provocative points palatable, essential in these times of high anxiety and extreme thoughts. If laughter is the best medicine, the cartoonist is the good doctor who prescribes it for us daily. Their sketches, drawings and exaggerated lines are not only meant to make us chuckle but also remind us of the importance of sanity .
 
  It has always been a hazardous job though. So many cartoonists have been killed, tortured and faced death threats from those uncomfortable with their crooked lines. In India, one was recently slapped with the outrageous sedition charge. Yet, many have steadfastly clung to their principles even at the cost of their life.
 
  
  
 
 For sending your entries, please click 
 
 
 
 The historical origin of the cartoon is vague. Cartoonistsindia.com says that the Italian brothers Annibale and Agostini Carrcci produced a series of drawings called “ritratini carichi“ (which means loaded portraits) in 1590. “It is from this term that the word `caricature' was born. Cartooning flourished in Europe in the next hundred years and travelled to neighbouring continents too,“ the website says. The British brought cartooning to India but over the years, the art form “came into its own in a stylised and independent version that is hugely popular,“ the website further says.
 
  Today, thousands of newspapers, both national and regional, publish cartoons every day. The internet, especially social media, has further democratised the art. Now, a caricature can be shared a thousand times over via Twitter or Facebook.Cartoons are also among the most popular WhatsApp forwards. To carry forward the proud tradition of cartooning, we have launched a nationwide Times Cartoonist hunt contest from March 23. The winners will be announced on World Cartoonist Day, May 5.
 
 The idea is to identify a pool of 2550 cartoonists. The best get to work on national assignments. Others would form regional teams that get briefs from specific editions.
 
