CHANDIGARH: There has been a 66% fall in the number of drunken driving challans issued by Chandigarh Police since April 1, the day   banned the sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways.

 The average number of challans issued each day has fallen from nearly 11 between January 1 and March 31 to four between April 1 and May 31, shows data with Chandigarh Police. In the first three months of the year, police issued 977 challans for mixing drinking and driving.
 
 After the ban came into force, police found only 267   on city roads from April 1to May 31. Several popular bars, nightclubs and eateries on Madhya Marg, Sector 26, and on  , Sector 35, were hit by the Supreme Court's ban on liquor sale near highways.While the establishments in Sector 26 abutted a state highway , the eateries in Sector 35 fell next to a national highway.
 
 DSP (traffic) Yashpal Vinayak said Chandigarh Police had continued to keep a check on cases of drunken driving. “We have gotten stricter after the ban, but the number of people getting drunk and driving has fallen in the city,“ he said.
 
 According to the central division of Chandigarh Police, 84 driver were caught drinking and driving in January . During the same time period, 146 people were fined for the offence in the east division, and 92 in south division.
 
 In February , 81 people were fined for driving under the influence of liquor in central division, 113 were caught in the east division, and 107 were caught in the south division.
 
 In March, 108 people were issued challans for mixing drinking and driving in the central division, the same number of people were caught in the east division, and 132 drunk drivers were fined in the south division. After the ban came into force, central zone issued 34 challans in April and 52 challans in May . 
 
 East zone caught 63 drunk people behind the wheels in April and 60 in May . In south zone, 29 people were challaned for the offence in April and the same number was challaned in May too.
 
  Arrivesafe president Harman Sidhu, the man who had petitioned the Supreme Court for the ban, said easy access to liquor and air-conditioned taverns next to roads attracted more people to drink. “But after the ban, getting liquor has  . There is no availability of a good tavern on roads. Now people buy   at home,“ he said.
 
