KOZHIKODE: The runway of the  , which had been   during the last 18 months to  , would become operational   from Wednesday . The runway had been closed for eight hours daily from September 1, 2015 as part of the Rs 60-crore  

 The 24-hour opening of runway is expected to provide relief to thousands of expatriates from Malabar.
 
 Though the works have been completed, the DGCA and Union civil aviation ministry are yet to give any positive signals about revoking the ban on operation of wide-bodied aircraft, imposed on May 1, 2015.
 
 Meanwhile, an upgraded instrument landing system (ILS) and single touch down zone lighting system, which wo uld enhance the safety of aircraft operations, have also been installed at the airport.
 
 “Though the runway will be operational round-theclock from Wednesday , the operators will take some more time to change their schedules.The upcoming summer schedule would see the airlines making use of the fully operational runway ,“ said airport director K Janardhanan.
 
 The new ILS installed at a cost of Rs 3 crore enables lan ding even in poor visibility conditions and provides precision lateral and vertical guidance to an approaching aircraft, using a combination of radio signals. AAI officials said that the single touch down lighting system would help prevent the possibility of overshooting of the runway by aircraft.
 
 Janardhanan said the airport was expecting a tremendous growth in the domestic sector in the coming months.“We are looking to achieve a 100% growth. We have just four flights now but we have received proposals for five additional flights. Among them are a new Indigo flight to Chennai which will start operations from March 1. Also on the cards is an Air Carnival service to Chennai,“ he added.
 
 However the continuing ban on wide-bodied aircraft remains a major cause of concern for the expatriates who make up for the overwhelming majority of passengers.
 
 The AAI had suspended the operation of wide-bodied (Code-E) aircraft citing that the current runway length of 2,850 metres was short of the minimum length for operation of jumbo jets. AAI had further said that the pavement and clearances at the airport was not in compliance with DGCA stipulations for Code-E aircraft.
 
 Following the ban, 52 weekly schedules were cancelled, resulting in curtailment of over 18,000 seats to the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Though some airlines had pressed in medium aircraft in the UAE and other Gulf sectors later on, the air-connectivity to Saudi Arabia was completly snapped.The ban saw a Rs 25-crore loss in the airport's income in the last fiscal with passenger numbers falling from 25.83 lakh in 2014-15 to 23.05 lakh in 2015-16.
 
 
