THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The concept of welfare state has always been close to the Left and will be the focus in this year's budget too. Finance minister T M   is all set to step up allocation for health and education sectors and the two missions which are part of the   and Comprehensive   ­would be getting much importance in the budget.

 The missions launched by the government for uplifting facilities in government hospitals and government schools can hope for significant allocations. The LDF government wants to turn 1,000 government schools across the state into centres excellence matching international standards. 
 
 “Even though high-end projects involved in these two missions will be funded by  , 70% of the funding will be coming from state's exchequer.Hence increased budget allocation for health general education is what is anticipated in the budget,'' said a senior finance department official.
 
 A comprehensive revamp of the staff pattern in the health sector is another revolutionary step the LDF government is planning to take up. This envisages creation of hundreds of additional posts. The finance department has given the green signal to revamp the staff pattern in the health department by creating more posts, sources in the health department said.
 
 The state government had earlier taken a decision to bring in a new health insurance scheme and an announcement in this regard is likely to be made in this budget.Isaac is of the view that the present schemes offering financial assistance for the treatment for several life-threatening diseases are not benefitting the people since it is not providing full coverage. Hence he is planning to merge such schemes under a comprehensive insurance cover that would cover entire treatment expenses. The fund crunch, which became acute post-demonetisation, would be the major hindrance that would prevent Thomas Isaac from announcing major infrastructural projects. But the budget is likely to announce some new ways to mobilize funds for the KIIFB through cess and tax. It is expected that Rs 40,000 crore would be sanctioned by the board in the next financial year for various infrastructural projects under overheads of public works and irrigation. 
 
 Another two major sectors the budget is likely to give thrust are women empowerment and welfare of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Sources said that housing schemes for the SC ST, tribal start-ups, community study centres in tribal hamlets, etc are some of the new projects likely to be announced. Also on the anvil is a special fund for creating entrepreneurs among the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. A new scheme for the generation of self-employment scheme for professionally qualified youth among the backward class is likely to get budget nod.
 
 With limited resources and several hurdles before him, the finance minister would opt for more welfare schemes rather than announcing mega projects.The thrust will be on   in tune with the suggestions put forth by the LDF in its manifesto last year.
 
