After her last film, 'Talvar', based on the   double murder,   zeroed in on the story of   while narrowing down on subjects. In 2005, the 15-year-old girl became the victim of an acid attack in Delhi for spurning a 32-year-old man, an acquaintance of the family, who harboured a one-sided attraction towards her.

  
  
 In the two years that followed, the diffident, disfigured girl rarely stepped out of her house, but later, threw herself into rebuilding her life. In 2006, Laxmi had filed a PIL which sought the framing of a new law or amendment to the existing criminal laws like IPC, Indian Evidence Act and CrPC for dealing with the offence, besides asking for compensation for the victim and a plea for a total ban on sale of acid.
 
 In 2013, in the wake of the Nirbhaya incident, the Supreme Court ruled in her favour, whereby acid cannot be sold to anyone below 18 years and requires a photo identity card for the purchase. Today, she is the much lauded director of  , an NGO dedicated to helping acid attack survivors. She has opened cafes in places like Lucknow and Agra managed entirely by such survivors, and now goes by the name of   (Stop Acid Attacks).
 
 "It's an inspiring story with social and legal implications," points out Meghna, who began talking to Laxmi over the phone around seven months ago, almost eight hours every day. "She was nervous initially because film people tend to romanticise life. But I promised to tell her story like it is and slowly, she began talking to my writer,  , and me. She later came down to Mumbai with her family. I also spoke to her father's employer who'd helped with her treatment and the case, as also several others."
 
 Meghna's just finished with her first draft and once she's got her father Gulzar's feedback on it, she'll start talking to producers and think about the casting. "I'm open to both newcomers and established actors to play Laxmi. The latter will give the film more visibility. Laxmi, if she makes an appearance, will do so only in the epilogue but we're a long way off still," admits the filmmaker, who will roll with this film only after she completes 'Sehmat', the   espionage thriller based on Harindere Sikka's novel 'Calling Sehmet', about a Kashmiri woman married to an army officer across the border who provides the Indian Intelligence with invaluable information during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.
 
 "For me real life has always been extremely interesting and I believe the audience today are also looking for real heroes from the everyday world who make the ordinary extraordinary instead of larger-than-life superheroes who bash up 20 people at a time. Laxmi is one such hero," Meghna avers.
 
  
  
