AURANGABAD: The civic body has decided to renovate five historic gates in the city after coming under fire from different quarters over allegedly being mute spectator in the demolition of a part of the city’s heritage in the recent past. 

 Jafar Gate, Barapulla Gate,   , Kala Gate and Paithan Gate are scheduled to get a makeover under the exercise, which has a scheduled financial outlay of over Rs 47 lakh.
 
 The proposed works include strengthening of gates and their colouring along with cleaning the nearby areas, an official document read. 
 
 Tenders for desired works have been floated by the civic body and a duration of three months has been set for accomplishing work related to each gate.
 
 Out of the total proposed allocation, Naubat Darwaza is slated to receive maximum share of around Rs 17.22 lakh followed by   (Rs 9.77 Lakh), Paithan Gate (Rs 8.97 Lakh), Barapulla Gate (Rs 6.77 Lakh) and   (Rs 4.42 Lakh), it was said. 
 
 Heritage experts as well as history lovers have welcomed the move to renovate some of the historical gates located in Aurangabad, but at the same time they expressed that the civic body has not set any priority while giving a facelift to the selected gates. 
 
 “It is heartening to see the gates getting some official attention. The stipulated work should be carried out as per the laid down norms so that life of these structures can be enhanced by years,”  , expert member of local heritage panel said.
 
 She also said that   and Hatthi Gate should have been considered on priority basis for renovation work. “These two structures are in more bad shape and need immediate official care. Mehmood Gate and Hatthi Gate should have been added to the list of gates to be overhauled,” Qureshi said.
 
 While Aurangabad has been historically referred as the city of 52 gates, some of these structures have already vanished. 
 
 Rafat Qureshi, senior history expert, stressed upon the need for removing encroachments located around the gates to be renovated.
 
 “The proposed works at the selected gates also include fitting of Khandki, which is an uncut stone used for strengthening of historical structures. Going by the past experiences, it was observed that these stones are stolen by encroachers for various purposes,” he said. 
 
 Fortification wall of Himayat Bagh, section of Neher-e-Ambari, portion of Neher-e-Panchakki, Kala Chabutara, Damdi Mahal, Fazil Pura Bridge, Dargah Bridge and Khas Gate are the concerned eight structures which have been allegedly damaged beyond repair by the local civic body over a period of past one-year. 
 
