NAGPUR: With the state election commission announcing civic election dates on Wednesday, the BJP’s campaign has begun for a third consecutive term while the Congress tries to regain its lost glory at   (NMC). The BJP and   are likely to contest the elections without any alliance while the Congress and NCP have left their options open.

 In its 66-year history, this is the first time NMC will witness wards with four corporators each, which is expected to benefit major political parties. Given the influence of chief minister   and union minister  , the BJP says it is confident of securing 100 or more seats of the total 151. The Congress is hoping to return to power in the civic body on the back of BJP’s 10 years anti-incumbency and other factors.
 
 The Congress had ruled NMC for 51 years; 46 of those years without a break. The BJP-Sena entered the civic body in 1997, when the Congress symbol was frozen. Banking on the sports materials scam, the Congress managed to regain power in 2002, but the BJP returned in 2007 to cement its position.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke told TOI the BJP was not overconfident, but believes it will win 100+ seats. “We will not take any party for granted. We will highlight all the good work done in last 10 years. Everyone has also seen the work done for the city by the BJP government at the centre and state in last two-and-a-half-years. Under the leadership of Fadnavis and Gadkari, we have faith that Nagpurians will again stand behind the BJP,” he said.
 
 Congress city president Vikas Thakre said citizens will expose BJP’s overconfidence. “We are united and hopeful of victory. Citizens faced many problems due to BJP’s failures in last 10 years. NMC saw numerous scams, burdening the common man. People don’t want just cement roads. BJP’s wrong policies at the centre and state are also causing serious problems to citizens. Infighting has begun among BJP leaders, so citizens will choose the Congress,” he said.
 
 BJP and Shiv Sena have always contested the NMC elections in alliance, excluding 1997 and 2002. Sena’s Vidarbha sampark pramukh Tanaji Sawant announced there would be no alliance with BJP. “We will win 40 seats contesting individually. Citizens are too upset with BJP’s 10-year rule, so the Sena will come to the rescue,” he said.
 
 BJP in charge for NMC elections MLC Anil Sole said, “We welcome Sena’s decision to contest separately. We are done with interviews and the BJP is excited to fight all 151 seats. BJP has visionary leadership (Fadnavis and Gadkari), and its good job at NMC will give it over 100 seats,” he said.
 
 NCP city president Anil Deshmukh said the party will consider a respectable offer from the Congress. “We are talking with like minded parties to improve our strength. We fought 29 seats and won seven in last NMC elections, and are now hoping to win at least 20 seats,” he said.
 
 Thakre said the Congress was about to enter into an alliance with old ally Lokmanch, and all like minded parties, including NCP, are welcome. “If we receive proposals, we will submit them to MPCC for final decision on alliances. Already, a slew of sitting corporators and leaders from all parties, including BJP, have entered Congress. This shows people have faith only in this party,” he said.
 
 BSP, which emerged as the dark horse in last NMC elections and then witnessed growth in assembly polls, hopes to secure over 35 seats. Corporator and senior leader Murlidhar Meshram said BSP has strong membership of over 15,000 in 18 wards, over 10,000 in nine wards and 7,000 in seven wards. “The BJP has miserably failed in NMC and citizens are fed up with the saffron brigade,” he said.
 
