MANGALURU: Actors and their fraternity will go under the hammer today. Vying for these precocious ‘cricketing’ talents will be owners of eight teams – who will vie for top honours in the maiden edition of Coastalwood Premier League (CPL) that will be staged at Nehru Maidan from April 4 to 8. Organising this event is the newly set up Coastalwood Artists and Technicians Association with active support from  , an event management company.

 With organisers identifying leading actors Arjun Kapikad, Rupesh Shetty, Asthik Shetty, Anup Sagar, Saurab Bhandary, Prathvi Amber, Shravan Kadri and  , the auction that will be held at   is expected to be a high voltage affair. The teams waiting to rope in players of their choice are Glitz Gladiators, M W Strikers, Kadandale Tigers, Kalkude Belters, Royals Rangers, Jugari Warriors, Brand Vision Tuskers and R S Brothers.
 
 Imthiyaz, convener of Brand Vision says the experience that his company in its earlier avatar as   has in managing   will stand it in good stead in guiding the association organize CPL as well. “A total of 140 players of the industry have been divided into three categories based on their performances in the trial matches conducted last year. The players will be distributed to the teams through auction,” he says.
 
 Each team can utilize the total purse of Rs 3-lakh and have to purchase one star player, one icon player, four players from A pool, equal numbers from B pool and three players from C pool. “The tournament is modelled on the lines of IPL, KPL and MPL,” Imthiyaz says, adding the eight teams will be divided into two pools of 4 teams each. During the league system, each team has to play the other three team and top three teams from each pool will make it to the knock out. 
 
 While top placed team in each pool will qualify directly to semi-finals, teams finishing second and third in the respective pools will be involved in eliminator to make it to last four. With matches reduced to 10 overs a side, the event will see a lot more furious action, he says. The winning side will take home Rs 2-lakh and an attractive trophy and the runners up Rs 1-lakh and trophy. Every match will see one player receive man of the match award in addition to regular prizes.
 
