BIJNOR: Three   residential school  ,  , which were declared unfit for use, will be demolished. The contract for building these schools was awarded to a company in 2008 but the company allegedly embezzled the money and left midway. 

 Last year, the   the recovery of Rs 3 crore from the company. A probe is also underway against the  .
  
 Initially, the total cost of construction of each of these schools was Rs 36 lakh. Now, after revision of rates, a proposal has been sent to the government to rebuild these schools at a cost of Rs 80 lakh each.
  
 In 2008, funds were released for the construction of Kasturba Gandhi residential schools for girls in the state. The contract to build the schools across 26 districts was awarded to a private Lucknow-based company. Of these, 13 schools were to be constructed in Bijnor district. The construction was to be completed by 2010.
  
 But the company left all the buildings incomplete after siphoning off about 90% of the budget allegedly with the connivance of officials in the education department.
  
 Having failed in completing the work in time, the company was blacklisted and an FIR was registered against it in 2012 at Bijnor police station.
  
 Last year, then district magistrate VK Anand had ordered government agencies to take up the task of completing all the 13 school buildings. These agencies completed the work of 10 buildings but declined to carry out repairs of the three school buildings because of poor construction by the previous company.
  
 The then DM issued a recovery certificate of Rs 3.03 crore, against the erring Lucknow-based company and a letter was sent to his counterpart in Lucknow to recover the amount from the company. A notice of recovery was served on the chairman of the company, Bhikary Singh of Banda district, chief manager Vinod Kumar and manager. A probe was also entrusted with the CB-CID.
  
 Investigation officer and inspector of CB-CID Dori Lal said, “The probe is in the final stage. I have taken statements of officials such as then district magistrate, BSA, block education officers and coordinator of Sarv Shisha Abhiyal. Now, the statement of then SDMs is to be recorded Later, a chargesheet will be filed in this case against the erring company.”
