NAGPUR: Sitting MLC Nago Ganar, supported by BJP, was headed for victory in Nagpur division teachers’ constituency MLC elections late on Tuesday night. However, his margin could not be known as the counting was still going on till the filing of the report. He was leading by around 5,000 votes after elimination of ten out of sixteen candidates.

 Rajendra   of Lok Bharti was second while Anand Karemore of Vidarbha Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh was in the third position. Anil Shinde of Congress was a poor fourth. Former MP Prakash Jadhav of   could not reach even four figures and was removed early in the elimination round.
 
 As Ganar, who is a member of  , could not win enough first preference votes, the election went into the elimination round. The voting for this election is preferential one and here the candidate has to bag 50% votes to win the election.
 
 The 50% mark is called quota in election parlance. The quota was fixed at 13,860 votes by the election officials. After the counting of first preference votes, Ganar had polled by 10,032 votes requiring 3,828 more votes. He was leading by a margin of 4,856 votes at that time.
 
 Ganar had polled 4,960 votes in the first round against 2,437 polled by Zade, 2,043 by Karemore and 1,507 by Shinde. After the second round, Ganar’s tally had reached 9,592 against 5,112 of Zade and 4,238 of Karemore. His lead had increased to 4,480 votes.
 
 Ganar had won elections for the post in late 2010 defeating veteran and three-time winner  , who had the support of the Congress. Ganar had won with a margin of over 6,000 votes.
 
 Ganar’s election was a prestige issue for both chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union transport minister  . The two had kicked off his election campaign. BJP MLC Anil Sole was made in-charge of the Ganar’s poll campaign. 
 
 Counting for the election was held at St Ursula High School, Civil Lines, and continued into early hours of Wednesday. Ganar supporters had however, started celebrating in the afternoon after he had taken an unassailable lead by second round of first preference votes counting.
 
 The election had an interesting twist when repolling was ordered for a booth in Nandanvan as due process was not followed. The counting was slated to be held on February 6 along with four other MLC elections but was postponed by a day due to the repoll on Monday.
 
 
