BATHINDA: A day after most exit polls showed a complete rout of incumbent  , the ancestral house of CM   in his native village Badal was under a thick cover of silence on Friday. The CM met a few people in the morning for a while and then went inside. He did not come out for the rest of the day. The counting for votes polls in the   is scheduled for Saturday. 

 Badal village is part of Lambi assembly constituency from where five-time CM Badal (89) has won four consecutive elections in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012 with handsome margins. He is trying his luck for the fifth term with former CM and state Congress chief Amarinder Singh and AAP’s Jarnail Singh in direct contest.
 
 “In the previous elections, a lot of enthusiasm used to be witnessed at the Badal residence before the counting day. It is missing this time,” said Badal village resident Mohinder Singh.
 
 Youth Akali Dal Malwa zone vice-president Ranjodh Singh Lambi, who is a regular at the CM’s residence, said, “Though we are upset by what exit polls are predicting, we are not out yet. We are still hopeful of a good show. As far as Lambi is concerned, nobody can stop Parkash Singh Badal from winning.”
 
 He admitted that festivities were missing this time around. He said deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal his wife and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were expected to reach here late in the evening.
 
 Meanwhile, there was excitement on the faces of people in the constituency as it has been a high-voltage elections for them. Amarinder’s decision to fight from Lambi made a most keenly-watched seat. 
 
 Exuding confidence, Amarinder’s son Raninder Singh said, “We are sure to win and form the government with absolute majority.”
 
 AAP’s Jarnail said that his party expected to form the government in Punjab and their workers had full confidence of having performed well.
 
 Leaders and workers of different parties are waiting for the outcome with a bated breath. Despite the chill in the weather since the last couple of days due to western disturbances, political atmosphere has reached its crescendo after a lull of several weeks.
 
 “We are here to sweep the polls and form people-friendly government,” said Punjab Congress vice-president Manpreet Singh Badal, who is trying his luck from Bathinda Urban constituency.
 
