JAIPUR: A 37-year-old habitual offender was arrested by Jaipur police on Sunday for allegedly abducting and raping a 7-year-old girl who was found in an unconscious state in Ramniwas Bagh on Saturday. The accused carried out the heinous crime under the influence of alcohol, and went back to sleep while leaving the minor withering in pain and shock.

 A special investigation team after quizzing over 100 suspects zeroed in on one Muhammad Jamal, who confessed to be sleeping near the girl on the footpath outside   temple at   on Friday night. Hours before the crime, Jamal drank several bottles of country-made liquor and took the girl in a blanket to the park where he raped her.
 
 The accused, after raping the minor, went back to sleep near Bangar Hospital, while leaving the minor inside the garden in a horrific condition. He returned to the garden next morning but did not find the minor. “The girl was bleeding profusely from her private parts and screaming in horror. She fell unconscious due to blood loss and pain, the accused, meanwhile, casually walked away from the crime spot to catch up on his sleep,” a senior official said.
 
 Jamal worked at an eatery and was living on footpath with his second wife, Rani, who begs around MI Road. “Jamal is a habitual offender with no permanent abode. He had been booked in cases related to vehicle-lifting, murders, and sections of arms Act. He was also sentenced to jail for five years in these cases,” a police official said. Cops said the girl’s mother is a ragpicker who had moved to   a few days ago.
 
 Meanwhile, JK Lon Hospital’s surgeon conducted surgery on the girl on Sunday morning which lasted for two and a half hours.
 
 Since the girl had lost a lot of blood, the doctors have done another blood transfusion. “We have conducted the surgery. The injuries were quite severe. Her private parts were torn. She lost a lot of blood. Now we have kept her in post-operative care,” Dr  , superintendent   said.
 
 Dr Gupta said that since the surgery was conducted on Sunday, it requires time for healing. For the purpose, the girl got colostomy to give rest to her injured parts. In colostomy, the doctors bring out one end of the large intestine through the abdominal wall by conducting operation.
 
 The hospital will conduct another surgery as colostomy is temporary and it needs another operation to put back the end of the large intestine inside the abdominal wall once the injures are completely healed.
 
