It was the end of January, one of the cold days of winters. Me and my husband were sipping our cup of coffee and planning a road trip to Leh and Ladakh. I was excited to the core, as I always wanted to visit the breathtaking view of snowy mountains and explore all the scenic beauties of incredible India.
 
  That night I dreamt about the white mountains and rivers of Leh and Ladakh, the perfect road trip and the cool zephyr. I could imagine myself travelling on the curved roads and all of a sudden it gave me motion sickness. I was about to throw up, when I woke up from my dreams and rushed to the bathroom. The impact of my dreams was such that I actually puked. It was already 7 o’clock in the morning, and I was still feeling dizzy. I thought that I was in my dreams and went back to sleep, thinking next time I will get up imagining something better. But the dizziness continued for quite some time.
  
  I took a day off and lamented on the occurrences of the events that were happening from the past few days. I had missed my monthly cycle. Although it was quite common as it happened with me earlier as well but this morning sickness was something new. I felt something was wrong and it just took me a simple test to understand that ‘I WAS EXPECTING’!
  
  A strange feeling struck me. I was not sure whether to be overjoyed or depressed. I had seen and heard from my friends about this blissful feeling of carrying a life within you. I remembered those tears of joy and happiness on their faces and then I realized that I was crying too. But I was confused whether those were the tears of joy or fear. I didn’t know what to do.
  The happiness of becoming a mother was side-tracked with various thoughts going around my mind. First of all the thought about my job, as me being a career oriented woman, I didn’t want to sit at home. Then the thought about not being able to travel, at least for few years. And strangely I also thought about how ugly I was going to look with excess   kilos.
  
  I broke the news to my husband and he seemed to be very happy hearing that he was going to be a dad. I wondered whether he was facing the same uneasiness like me from within, or was he genuinely happy.
  
  Long story short. Days passed into months. My little tummy started bulging and as feared I was becoming shapeless. The trip to Leh Ladakh became a dream that was never going to happen now. And the fear of giving birth and parenting a child had added to my anxiety. My heart always wanted to be happy and give my best to my baby, but my mind was still not ready for it. I felt guilty as I was not able to stay calm and remain happy, no matter how much I tried to be. I craved to be like other moms-to-be, who pampered themselves and did all that they could, for their babies.
  
  I decided not to take a break from my office till the beginning of the ninth month, as I knew if I sat at home my fear will double and I would have weird thoughts running through my mind.
  
  Nine months passed in lots of turmoil and finally the day arrived. It was a planned surgery. I was given half anesthesia and my lower body was made numb. I couldn’t understand what was happening. Suddenly I heard a rattling voice. Within few moments, the doctor showed me her face. That moment was priceless, one that I can never ever forget, the moment when I saw those twinkling eyes, just out of my womb, exploring the world. She was bought near me and I kissed her and tears rolled down my eyes. The first experience of   was bliss... I realized those tears were genuine, the tears of happiness, and I couldn’t believe it coming out of my eyes.
  
  I got a lot of advise about how my days were going to change, how I won’t be able to get my sleep, how I won’t be able to join my job, how I won’t be able to get out of the house and many more. And to my distress, all these things actually started happening. For the first few weeks I hardly got to sleep, which made me fussy and irritated. The baby used to cry all the time and all the love and emotions were shadowed by anger. I used to give up at times. Gradually I realised that this little child is so new to world. She doesn’t understand the day and night cycle, she doesn’t understand people and the unusual things and noises in and around her. Just a few weeks ago, she was safe and secured within me and then all of a sudden this change. Despite being a grown up, if I go to a new place, I take time to adjust then how can I expect a few weeks old baby to behave herself. Once again I saw those twinkling eyes, looking at me as if asking me to cuddle her and make her feel secured... She wanted the warmth that she had inside the womb, she wanted my touch. I took her and cuddled her gently and to my surprise she was quiet in few minutes. I realized the bonding between me and her. I realized what I am to her, I realized the value of motherhood and then once again tears rolled out of my eyes.
  
  Experiencing motherhood is in fact a bliss.
  
  I understood the first and foremost thing is patience and once I surpassed that, everything seemed to fall in place. The sleeping cycles of my baby got back to normal just in few weeks. I joined back my job right after my maternity leave. After few months we started taking her out for picnics and she started enjoying it. She got used to the surroundings around her and coped up well with the climatic conditions and changes, I got back to my normal self and I enjoyed her company more than anything in this world. Few months ago, I was in agony about having a child and today she is the world to me. How life changes in just a matter of time.
  
  And finally we are planning a road trip to Leh and Ladakh next week along with our little bundle of joy.
  
  She is our little Angel send to us by God.. and we have named her REISHA – ‘Beautiful Angel of God’.
  
  
  
