NEW DELHI: Imagine the annoyance — not to talk of the hazards involved — of crossing a busy   street, pulling your kids and your two suitcases through incoming traffic. This risky exercise is replicated hundreds of times every day, not on city roads, but at the Indira Gandhi International Airport’s terminals. After a tiresome drive past traffic jams, road construction points and numerous security checks, fliers reach the arrival and departure concourses at IGIA, only to be left risking their lives for one more time before they get into the   building. 

 Much of the chaos is due to the design and designation of the three lanes outside the arrival and departure porches. The Delhi International Airport Pvt Ltd (DIAL) has earmarked the first lane adjacent to the terminal gates at the arrival area for buses. The second is for commercial vehicles with yellow number plates and the third for private vehicles. At T3 arrival, the first lane is for transfer buses plying between T1 and T3, DTC buses and radio taxis. The second lane is for the “kaali-peeli” taxis and the third for private cars and commercial vehicles sporting yellow number plates.
 
 In both these places, the maximum problem is faced by those using the third lanes — fliers arriving at or leaving from T3 in their personal vehicles. “I don’t understand why DIAL reserved only one lane for the use of private cars,” wondered Aman Varma, a Karol Bagh-based exporter and frequent flier. “At night, this lane is choked, while the other two lanes are relatively free. Finding a place to park and unload the luggage can become a struggle.” 
 
 Alighting from a car right away impels the passengers into trouble. “Once we get the bags out and put them on trolleys, we have to start hunting for the ramp that enables us to push the trolley to the slightly elevated entry areas,” said Varma. Airport sources defended the paucity of such cross-over points by saying that these would encourage people to park their vehicles on the pavements. 
 
 At T3 arrival, crowds of crowds of touts and people posing as airport helpers worsen the situation. Delhi businessman Rajesh Jain recalled an annoying experience. “Once when I had to board a taxi in the third lane, a man started loading my bags in the car. I thought he was working with the taxi driver, but he wasn’t and expected a tip for the work. I don’t how so many touts can operate there when it is the heaviest guarded place in Delhi.”
 
 A DIAL spokesman responded, “At T3, all public vehicles have been allocated the first two lanes and it is the only terminal in India to have metro train connectivity. Besides, IGIA has parking for over 5,000 cars.” However, to prevent overcrowding, all commercial vehicles coming to T3 and T1, except the Mega, Meru, Easy and black-yellow cabs, now have to pay an entry fee of Rs 150. A wait of for more than eight minutes entails additional charges.
 
 Over 5.5 crore passengers used the airport last year, up 21% from 4.6 crore in 2015. Thankfully, DIAL is aware of the bottlenecks. “We have seen the severe congestion at T1 arrival area due to unauthorised parking and waiting by commercial vehicles,” said the spokesman. “Touts have also increased and this causes serious inconvenience to passengers and is also a law-and-order issue.”
 
