CHANDIGARH: Guess what is the first priority of  's new   government? Not the war on drugs, it's a crusade against liquor.

 In sync with its poll promise of reducing alcohol consumption in Punjab, the newly elected state cabinet decided on Saturday to slash the number of liquor vends from 6,384 to 5,900, and cut the annual quota of Indianmade foreign liquor (IMFL) as well as country liquor.
 
 As part of the new excise policy for the year 2017-18, the IMFL quota has been brought down from 4.73 crore proof litres to 3.80 crore proof litres -a 20% cut -and country liquor's from 10.1 crore proof litres to 8.7 crore proof litres, a reduction of 14%.
 
 In its election manifesto, Congress had promised “to discourage liquor con sumption in Punjab and substantially reduce its sale in five years by closing 5% of liquor vends each year“.
 
 The government has also banned liquor vends within 500 metres of national and state highways in keeping with the recent   order.
 
 The   government also scrapped the controversial wholesale licence category , L-1 A, introduced by the SAD-BJP government, which had earned the wrath of both the Punjab and   high court and the Supreme Court for favouring eight firms.
 
 The policy mandated liquor manufacturing companies or distilleries to sell alcohol to one person, company , firm or organisation, triggering widespread protests by liquor retailers.
 
 According to the new policy, L-1 licensees (wholesa lers) would lift their quota directly from distilleries, bottling plants and manufacturing companies. The change is also aimed at stemming the flow of illicit liquor that has often been used as a means to lure voters, and has caused loss of revenue to Punjab due to bootlegging, state excise and taxation department officials said.
 
 On Saturday , chief minister Amarinder also approved 33% reservation for women in all state jobs. Another significant decision saw the state cabinet order the removal of red beacons from all official vehicles, except those of the CM and the chief justice and judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 All ministers, MLAs and officials have been barred from foreign travel at state expense for two years, with an exception for “tours of bilateral agreement“.
 
