THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Repeated criticism from the   and the pressure from CPM have prompted the chief minister to intervene directly with the functioning of the   bureau ( ). The hurriedly convened meeting of vigilance top brass on Wednesday night was the second such review by the CM in the last one month. 

 Sources said chief minister   minced no words while addressing the meeting and listed out the lapses on part of officials, including the director. It is also learnt that the CPM has asked the CM to replace the VACB director if the former refuses to mend his ways. For the time being, newly-appointed private secretary to the CM, M V Jayarajan will monitor the day-to-day functioning of the vigilance. 
 
 Jayarajan has also been directed to look after the police department, which has also been facing criticism from several quarters. 
 
 The Wednesday's meeting decided to review the overall functioning of the agency. The agency has been asked to register no more cases without the written consent of the vigilance director, a power, which was delegated by the present vigilance director to the concerned heads of units. Sources said the chief minister, who had prepared a detailed note about the various court orders with regards to the functioning of the agency, also asked the agency not to violate the vigilance manual and guidelines issued by the government with regards to registering of cases. 
 
 Sources said the high court's criticism of some of the complainants in most of the recent vigilance cases, was echoed by the chief minister as well. Naming vigilance activist  , who has been in the forefront of filing complaints against most of the officials, the chief minister criticized the way the agency has been accepting cases and registering complaints, sources said. 
 
 The vigilance guidelines for the functioning of the agency and registering the cases, which was issued by the government on May 12, 1992, has been completely side-lined by the agency while registering the cases and conducting searches. 
 
 According to the rule 4 (3) of the guidelines, it was the duty of the vigilance director to order an investigation in matters referred to him for inquiry, and the cases against heads of departments should be registered only after the permission of the government.
 
