NEW DELHI: A new phase of net neutrality discussions has begun, and this time it is sharply focused on the issue of traffic management plans. Such plans are put into place to make sure that internet bandwidth is maintained, or network security is in place. The   has asked a set of 14 questions in its latest consultation paper. Most of these seek comments on ideal  , the ways to regulate them, and the ways to ensure that they do not violate net neutrality.

 The principle of net neutrality or network neutrality mandates that all data be treated equally. Internet service providers (ISPs) and owners of large content-based networks can control how data moves through the pipes. Depending on the kind of service they offer, they can determine how quickly your video buffers or whether a website appears blocked for you. These actions are part of standard traffic management practices. An internet service provider may regulate the amount of bandwidth available to you depending on whether you are just sending an email or playing a graphic-heavy multi-player online game. They may also need to handle network congestion by timing out requests if there are too many devices trying to connect.
 
 However, doing all of this can require ISPs to distinguish between different kinds of data usages. “As a principle discrimination in traffic may lead to harming the open internet. Hence, this needs to be regulated by clear rules,” says Supreme Court lawyer Apar Gupta, who is also part of the Internet Freedom Foundation which has been campaigning in favour of net neutrality.
 
 Internationally, there is a precedent for this. Infamously, in March 2014, a tussle between online video streaming service   and internet service provider Comcast came out in the open. Netflix CEO Reed Hastings accused Comcast of throttling the speeds of his service unless Netflix coughed up interconnect charges. In August 2007, US telecom giant AT&T censored a portion of a live webcast of a Pearl Jam concert where a song contained lyrics critical of then US president George W Bush.
 
 Industry bodies in India say they are still formulating a position on the various issues raised by the paper and want to stay focused on maintaining network quality. “The issue of categorisation is still being worked on,” says Rajan Mathews who heads the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI). “For us, there is only one type of traffic – data traffic. We only provide the roads for it. The fundamental principle for us is that we are responsible for the health, quality, and security of the network and making sure that there are no bottlenecks,” says Mathews.
 
 National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) president R Chandrasekhar says he sees traffic management and prioritisation of apps as different issues. Clarifying that the Association is still in the process of considering TRAI’s questions, he says, “Traffic management is about optimising traffic dynamically based on how the network is being used. It doesn’t depend on which app is being used.”
 
 Consumer privacy is another issue on the table. "Other stakeholders like civil society organisations (CSOs), academics and several individual respondents are however in broad agreement that practices like Deep Packet Inspection should not be used for gaining unlawful access to the type and contents of an application in an IP packet… Stakeholders have also expressed their views on this subject in response to the question relating to protection of consumer privacy,” says the   paper.
 
 Do we then need a privacy framework in place before we can define and regulate appropriate traffic management practices? “The specific need for a privacy protection framework may not even arise if zero knowledge systems are put in place,” says Gupta. A zero knowledge system is one where a network operator regulates traffic while blind to the apps or online content it is associated with. “That said, India does urgently need a privacy regulator to look at these issues on a continuous and ongoing basis,” adds Gupta.
 
