BAHRAICH: From a back-breaking arduous ride till a year ago, the drive on NH 28C from Lucknow to   has turned into a delight. But as one enters the town, named after Lord Brahma, craters start masquerading as roads and the journey turns as bumpy as probably experienced by the first political family of this city, bordering Nepal – transport minister   and his mother Ruab Saeeda are facing a tough battle on their respective seats in the district.

 Contesting his second election, Yasar – a key member of Team Akhilesh -- is up against a formidable challenge to retain the legacy of his father -- veteran samajwadi leader Waqar Ahmad Shah. While Waqar is battling for life at a Lucknow hospital, in coma since 2013 after a sudden illness, Yasar has this onerous task of retaining not only his own Matera seat, but also his father's traditional Bahraich where his mother is contesting.
 
 In 2012, he fought under the towering shadow of his father, but this time he has to look after both the constituencies. “People of Matera are campaigning for me. My mother has love and support from Bahraich's public, my wife Maria and my sister Alveera,” Yasar told TOI while campaigning in remote areas of his district. “I am receiving love and support from people,” he added.
 
 Dr Waqar Ahmad Shah is with Mulayam Singh Yadav since the day the foundation of SP was laid in 1991. He has been winning the Bahraich seat on the trot since 1993 and was made a senior minister whenever SP came to power. In 2012, he introduced his son Yasar to electorate politics by fielding him from Matera, the neighbourhood seat of his own bahraich. Both father and son won with flying clours and Waqar became labour minister. But tragedy struck within a year.
 
 Yasar is pitted against former MLC Arunvir Singh of BJP and Sultan Khan of BSP. Sultan is the son of a prominent Muslim leader and MLC Athar Khan. In a bid to cash in on nearly 33% Muslim population in the district AMIM’s candidate is also in the fray.
 
 While, SP workers are confident that Yasar is the first choice of Muslim voters after alliance with Congress, on ground their seems to be some fault lines. Some local Congress leaders reportedly hold a grudge against Yasar after he opposed them in the panchayat elections. However, he is confident his goodwill will overcome these challenges. 
 
 The Bahraich seat, with almost 50% Muslim population, has been considered an impregnable fort of the Shah family. But the going may be tough for Saeeda this time. Her opponents, Anupama Jaiswal of BJP is banking on a large number of Marwari voters in the town while BSP’s Ajeet Pratap Singh has the backing of Thakurs and dalits. Modi, Mayawati and Akhilesh have all done rallies here setting the pace for a gruelling battle.
 
 Waqar, a practising doctor by profession, carried a lot of goodwill because of his helping nature. He not only held the seat five times but also ensured Saeeda’s victory in 2004   Polls. Now, with the veteran in hospital for the past three years, the family hopes the sympathy factor will help them sail through.
 
