CHENNAI: Letting one’s mind play is the best way to solve problems, said cartoonist and author of comic strip Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson. And that’s exactly what students of   Vaishnav did on Friday as they got creative with comic concepts as part of a ‘cartooning for cause’ workshop organised by the US consulate.

 From capturing US presidential elections in 2008, comics based on testimonies taken from Syrian refugees seeking asylum in Scandinavia, or Priya’s Shakti – India’s very own graphic novel whose protagonist is a victim of gang rape, comic book and   creators Dan Goldman, Benjamin Dix and Ram Devineni took students through the process of creating, publishing comics and its impact.
 
 Taking students through conflict ridden regions of Sri Lanka, Syria, Libya and Palestine, cartoonist Benjamin Dix pointed out that comics have an advantage over other mediums as it can bring out reality without disclosing the identity of the victims. 
 
 “Certain things cannot be filmed or photographed in certain circumstances. It may not be possible to even write about certain situations but comics can depict the situations in a very realistic way yet keeping the characters anonymous,” he said.
 
 “You can jump around with time and space with comics and take the reader back and forth. You can also get into the psychology of the people and depict images in an abstract format or through a dream representation,” said Dix who recalled that the seed of creating comics was planted in his head during his time in Sri Lanka in 2004-08 when he was working as a photojournalist. 
 
 Several of his pictures were later used as creative material for his comics which involved many interviews and testimonies from people.
 
 Dix also pointed out the reach of a comic can be far and wide as it can also be understood by the illiterate. One of his comics ‘Abike’s story’ - a first person illustrated testimony of one woman’s experience of being trafficked from Nigeria to London, found its way to the parliament in UK when the issue of trafficking was being discussed.
 
 The workshop highlighted the importance of strong content in comics as it explored creating digital and interactive comic books and cartoons to address social issues using innovative new technologies.
 
 Quoting examples like the popular comic strip ‘You said it’ of cartoonist R K Laxman, consulate general acting public affairs officer Alexis Wolff said there were newer ways of telling important stories and that the students today have an advantage as they could read larger audiences through the advanced technology.
 
 
