Though the first two films in the   had Devi Sri Prasad as the composer, director   has roped in   for the third one. Will it work for the film like the other two? The album starts with O Sone Sone by Javed Ali and Priya Subramanian, and also featuring MC Vickey. It starts like a Telugu song (what with the lyrics) and quickly changes pace. Javed Ali takes this forward with his interesting rendition. The beats are quite catchy after one listen. What don't sync are the Telugu lyrics (maybe it has a story connect) and meaningless words. With visuals though, it might work. Mudhal Murai by Harish Raghavendra, Shweta Mohan and Karthik, and featuring Ramya NSK, is an easy, breezy melody. Karthik sets the pitch for the song, followed by Harish and Shweta's mellifluous rendition. This song is simple and makes for a good listen. But yes, the tune resembles Harris's earlier compositions. 

 Universal Cop by Christopher Stanley, Krish and Dinesh Kanagaratnam is the kind of song that glorifies the cop (more like an intro number for  ). Sounding like a montage number, this one's quite energetic with Dinesh and Christopher's upbeat singing. Not for your playlist, though. He's My Hero by Maalavika Manoj has a mix of English and Tamil lyrics. The song has a laid-back feel, and is about a girl fantasising about her man. Yet another passable listen. Wi Wi Wi Wi Wifi by Karthik, Christopher Stanley and Nikhita Gandhi has already made it to the charts. Though the song has a strong Harris-touch, this song has moments that are likeable. The song has different variations, and the singers, too, made it a fun, dance number. Mission To Sydney by Lady Kash has juvenile lyrics and the composer has just played with some techno beats to make it sound loud. This one's a situational track and you could give it a miss. The album ends with S3 Vetta theme music by MC Vickey... a loud theme that works on commercial lines. The album is typical Harris, but it is also so commercial that you would think twice about having these songs on your playlist. 
