NEW DELHI: It was a close shave for 45 passengers of a luxury bus returning from a wedding in Mayapuri when their vehicle overturned near Delhi Cantonment after being rammed by a speeding truck around 1.30am on Tuesday. Drivers of both vehicles fled after the accident leaving the passengers to fend for themselves. The police arrived after 15 minutes of getting a call from one of the passengers.

 Incidentally, the signal where the accident took place is the only one in the entire area that remains switched on through the night to control traffic.
 
 The driver due to whose negligence the accident took place is yet to be identified. Police said that 12 people, including a few women and children, were admitted to three hospitals for treatment. Sources said that two of the injured have been kept under observation at AIIMS Trauma Center.
 
 Doctors said they may have to amputate the injured arm of one of the passengers, Sajid (30). Two other women — Laxmi (45) and Upasana (34) — who got injured on their faces due to glass shards may have to undergo a surgery.
 
 The family of the groom, Manish Gupta, had hired the bus from a tour and travel agency in Lajpat Nagar. They left the wedding venue around 12.30am. When they reached Thimaiyya Crossing, a truck (RJ 02 GB 3700) carrying flyash suddenly took a left turn towards Ring Road. The bus was hit on the right side and the driver lost control. The vehicle then overturned on its left side. The impact of the hit was such that the bus was dragged a few metres before coming to a halt.
 
 A few of the trapped passengers managed to break open the windowpanes and climbed out. They told the police that no one stopped to help them. After receiving a call, 20 PCR teams from different areas rushed to the spot, rescued the bus passengers and took them to the hospitals.
 
 “A case under IPC sections of rash and negligent driving and causing hurt due to negligence has been registered and we are probing into the culpability of both the drivers,” said DCP (southwest) Surender Kumar. Cops have contacted the truck owner in Rajasthan to identify the driver. A team has been sent to the house of the bus driver in Sarita Vihar to track him as well.
 
