CHENNAI: With the construction of the 45km-long stretch of   Limited (Cmrl)’s phase-1 project nearing completion,   has begun preliminary work for acquiring land for the three-line   of the project. 

 The second phase will cover a stretch of more than 107km and is expected to cost about Rs 85,047crore. It will have three corridors: Madhavaram and Siruseri, CMBT in Koyambedu and Light House and Madhavaram and Sholinganallur. The project is awaiting approval from the Centre. Metro rail officials said they had started land acquisition process at Madhavaram, where two of the three lines will intersect.
 
 The stations of underground lines will need some land for entry/exit, while elevated lines will need land for building stations. Additional land will be needed at Madhavaram because as the locality will have one of the biggest interconnection between two lines.
 
 From Madhavaram, the line will cut across GNT Road and  , before heading towards the city’s centre. Unlike the line in phase-1 extension project, which runs across the densely populated part of  , much of the land on either side of the road near Madhavaram has only godowns and commercial units.
 
 Metrorail officials said they have begun preliminary work, as it would be easy to float tenders immediately and start construction work once they get the approval. Further, land acquisition is a long and tedious process where notices will be issued to people who own properties along the stretch of the metro rail alignment. Those unwilling to handover their land would be invited to express their views in meetings attended by local body authorities and Cmrl officers.
 
 Unlike phase-1 of the project, officials said about 80% of the second phase will be underground. In case of underground stretches, Cmrl will acquire land on a temporary basis to store their equipment during construction, while minimal space will be taken over to build the station entry and exit points, besides ancillary building that will house power backup systems.
 
 Further, the size of the stations are also expected to be 25% smaller size than those built in the phase-1 of the project. It will cut down on cost, time of construction and maintenance. The size of the stations would be brought down by making modifications to the space occupied by auxiliary systems like rooms for electrical systems, communication systems, control systems and ticketing.
 
