Mangaluru: The fourth general meeting of the academic council of Mangalore University for the academic year 2016-17 on Monday approved fresh affiliation to 11 new colleges. These include Dr B B Hegde First Grade Evening College, Kundapur; S S Degree College, Kushalnagar; Coorg Institute of Hospitality Sciences, Madikeri; Medha College, Puttur; Anugraha Women’s First Grade College, Kushalnagar; and A J Institute of Speech and Hearing, Mangaluru.

 With this, the total number of affiliated colleges under Mangalore University has gone up to 226 including 150 private colleges, 37 government colleges, 19 BEd/BPEd colleges, five autonomous college and four constituent colleges. In all, 29 colleges, including nine enjoying permanent affiliation, did not apply for renewal of affiliation for various courses due to lack of student intake for a particular course, and 121 private colleges had applied for renewal of affiliation.
 
 Three colleges applied for permanent affiliation and 36 government colleges applied for renewal of affiliation. A M Khan, registrar (evaluation), said the colleges that have run their affairs successfully for at least five years and have obtained NAAC accreditation are eligible to apply for permanent affiliation. “In some cases, autonomous colleges too come to us for getting a new course affiliated to us just as St Agnes College, one such college did for its BA (Journalism) course,’’ he added.
 
 Chairing the meeting, vice-chancellor K Byrappa piloted discussion of the agenda that went threadbare through requests for fresh affiliations, permanent affiliations and other related issues. Registrar K M Lokesh presented the agenda and chairpersons of the local inquiry committees (LIC) that visited these colleges presented their observations to justify their decision to either deny affiliation, restrict intake of seats or pointed out other shortcomings.
 
 In one such instance, Kishori Nayak,who headed a LIC,said Nishara Degree College at Harekala was stymying growth of its students by not inviting external guests for its college functions. “This will not expose students to fresh ideas and views,” she said,adding surplus of colleges in Ullal, Harekala, Permannur and Nadupadavu region was having a bearing on student strength and some of these colleges were not able to attract students to their sanctioned strength.
 
 The LIC reports also pointed out to glaring deficiencies such as lack of infrastructure to house the intake sought by both private and government colleges or to offer new courses. In one such instance, LIC cancelled affiliation of BHM course offered by the Government First Grade College, Kushalangar. In cases where colleges had requisite infrastructure including trained staff, library, the LIC permitted the increase in strength or increase in batches proportionately.
 
 
