Mumbai: While the world conjures up borders and walls itself in, a group of people from three continents are currently in Mumbai, working on logistics to foster the opposite sentiment. The heads of   and   are in the city this week to coordinate with museum officials from Delhi and Mumbai on an   that exemplifies sharing and connectivity—not through wireless devices, but through historic objects.

 “Museums—especially those that have encyclopaedic collections—have a mission to make people understand the grander linkages between cultures,” says Hartwig Fischer, director of the British Museum, which will be sharing iconic pieces from its collection with   (CSMVS) for a collaborative exhibition titled ‘India and the World: A History in Nine Stories’ later this year.
 
 Speaking to the media about the efforts that have gone into planning the exhibition, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, director of CSMVS (formerly the Prince of Wales Museum), says it will have a strong focus on students, especially those from small towns. The objects will be curated such that they will reveal both similarities and differences between cultures across centuries. For example, during prehistoric times, there was little or no commun-ication between people across the globe, but they were all creating similar stone artefacts.
 
 One important piece that will travel to Mumbai (and later Delhi) from the British museum is the  , a Roman copy of the Greek original. Fischer says, “It embodies the human capacity to develop itself, to build itself, and to go beyond itself. So, in a way this is a metaphor for the entire exhibition.”
 
 To create a dialogue and some intrigue, the discobulus will be placed alongside three important Indian sculptures of vahanas, who transport gods and goddessses. “All are symbols of energy and personify the human form, but with different treatments,” says Mukherjee. “People...will get to see similarities and differences in different cultures across a span of more than 5,000 years.”
 
 The exhibition, which has been sponsored by Tata Trust and Getty Foundation, has been inspired, in part, by the writings of Cuno of Getty, who has written extensively about the need for cross-cultural scholarly exchange and engagement, and has openly condemned President Trump’s recent travel ban. “India has always engaged with the rest of the world. This can become a prototype for other exhibitions, showing a national narrative and its relationship with other narratives in the world,” says Cuno.
 
 
