PATNA: The Bihar government is at work to create infrastructure for launching ‘virtual classrooms’ in 1,000 schools, to start with, across the state.   An announcement to this effect was made by education minister Ashok Choudhary in the state legislative assembly on March 8.    ‘Virtual classroom’ software applications employ multiple- synchronous technologies such as web conferencing, videoconferencing and livestreaming, which facilitate real-time collaboration of students even in remote areas.    However, these technologies require internet facility and power supply, which are not available in many areas of the state.    The government plans to install BSWAN (Bihar State Wide Area Network) in different areas for good network connections. Until this is done, ‘virtual classrooms’ will be launched only in those areas that already have good network connectivity. To counter power failures, the government plans to install solar systems.    On what will be taught and how, minister Choudhary told this reporter, “The plan is in its initial stages. As of now, we have decided to use preloaded syllabus and study material.”    He further said prominent government schools such as Patna Miller High School, Patna Collegiate and Patna High School would be among the 1,000 schools where this facility would be launched.    Incidentally, ‘virtual classrooms’ already exist in certain private school, including St Michael’s High School in Patna. According to its principal Fr Armstrong Edison, virtual and smart classes make learning fun and helps relieve boredom and monotony.    “Although ‘virtual classrooms’ cannot completely substitute traditional classroom teaching, they are an effective supplement in providing more guidance,” Fr Edison said, hailing the state government’s initiative to launch ‘virtual classrooms’ in government schools.    “Smart classes are 90% more effective than ordinary classes. But much depends on how effectively the teachers use them,” said Don Bosco Academy principal Mary Alphonsa. Don Bosco too has ‘virtual classrooms’.    The state government also plans to set up language labs in schools. “Under a pilot project, we are going to introduce language labs in five or ten top schools of the state,” said the minister.