NEW DELHI: Passers-by clamp their noses and look the other way on seeing the filth and human excrement at the busy Hiran Kudna Mor on Rohtak Road in west Delhi. "Why can’t they take this straight to the landfill?" one of them wonders aloud. Immune to such contemptuous utterances, six men work furiously with metal buckets to clear the ammonical muck choking the drain — dehumanising work that the law leaves to mechanised options, not men and women. 

 Moti Chand   has left his clothes neatly folded besides the drain and descended into the putrid mass. Standing with just his mouth above the filth, he scoops up the vile material in his bucket and passes it on. "There is poisonous gas there. I saw bubbles breaking on the surface of the muck," he points at the black interior of the drain below the road. "When you near it, the eyes start smarting." 
 
 Kushwaha and the five others working with him in the human chain are not wearing protective gloves, masks or boots nor do they have equipment to deal with toxic vapours. "We get paid Rs 300-350 a day. How do you expect us to get gear of that sort?" he chuckles. The filth these men are pulling out include trash, garbage, sanitary napkins, broken bottles — and human excreta. It is easy to contract diseases from the vile, viscous liquid. And if you cut your feet on broken glass or sharp stones, infection is a certainty.
 
 "We can’t survive without medicine," says a deadpan  , called Kale by everyone around. Under the law, these workers should be provided with safety gear like rubber boots, protective face masks, safety harness and oxygen tanks, but the contractors they work for have cleverly formulated a system of multiple sub-contracts that leaves them all unaccountable for any disasters. So the cleaners are armed with just a bucket and a rope, and they rely on a burning matchstick to judge the presence of poisonous gas, and, of course, the ‘pauwa’ of  .
 
 "It is murder," says Bezwada Wilson, campaigner for eradication of manual scavenging. "The officers should be charged with murders every time manual scavengers die. Only then may things change." 
 
 Deepak Yedia, just 19, says that he didn’t opt for this work. "But it is the most easily available option for us Valmikis," he says. "Normal labour jobs are hard to find." His co-worker   adds, "Though the government claims there are many schemes and loans for SCs, even getting a caste certificate is an uphill task. Most of us live hand to mouth, and each day we don’t work means not being able to feed our families."
 
 Dilawar is happy his son has escaped the degrading existence. "He cleaned drains for 4-5 years, but thankfully has started a chicken meat stand with the help of an NGO," the man said, adding that it is not easy to walk away. "Despite collapsing a few times while engaged in assignments of this sort, my brother-in-law continues doing it," sighs Dilawar. 
 
 The health risks are enormous. "Many of my coworkers over 15 years eventually developed TB and most died before reaching the age of 60," adds Dilawar. The laws mandate the use of machinery to remove sludge and filth from sewers, drains and tanks, but the civic agencies find manual labour through the contract system a cheaper alternative. So, even as passers-by wrinkle up their noses in disgust, the men venture deeper and deeper into the sinister underground sections of roads to scrape out bucketfuls of filth, putting their lives at great risk. All for Rs 300.
 
