CHENNAI: First information reports (FIRs) registered in any police station in the state can now be viewed and downloaded at the click of a mouse.

 All you have to do is enter your name and mobile number and the   ( ) portal will generate a one-time password (OTP) which will be sent to your phone. Then, you can enter the relevant   number to view the report.
 
 “We have given the option of downloading the FIR,” said the additional director general of police, SCRB, Seema Agarwal. This is part of the   (CCTNS) relating to the registration of FIRs, collection of documents and filing of final reports.
 
 Agarwal told TOI that once the FIR is registered, an SMS will be sent to the petitioner's mobile number. “Many times, the complainants keep running from door to door to get an FIR copy. Sometimes they don't even know where to go. This service has been started to sort out such problems,” she said.
 
 Those who misuse the facility will be dealt with sternly, said another police officer. “Though the option is available for anyone to view and download any FIR, SCRB will monitor people visiting our website,” he said.
 
 The CCTNS is already helping road accident victims by getting the insurance amounts reimbursed through the respective insurance firms. It has been approved by the state apex committee chaired by the chief secretary of the state, who has accorded in-principle approval for the sharing of data with insurance companies in road accident cases on payment basis. The decision was taken following a meeting held on November 9, 2016.
 
 SCRB has also successfully launched a system to electronically send details of arrests to the concerned courts as a part of e-governance. The system is being followed by all the investigating agencies in the state from last week.
 
 When any enforcement agency apprehends a suspect, officials have to follow certain formalities and submit documents before the court. This includes the arrest/court surrender form, which contains information about the suspect, apart from the arrest warrant, arrest intimation form, parole form, and prayer for remand.
 
 “Now, all the data is being uploaded through mail and a hard copy submitted to the court concerned,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
