PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) is set to replicate the Surat and Ahmedabad   to come up with corporate and   along the outer side of the proposed 129-km   in the district. 

 The proposed hubs are likely to come up near the Chakan industrial belt and the proposed international airport in Purandar.
 
 A consultant has been appointed to assess the schemes and the projects are being worked on the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) land monetisation model.The MMRDA has planned to put forth the Bandra Kurla complex land parcels on the block to finance big projects. 
 
 The PMRDA has been handed 7,800 hectares of government land for (land) monetisation to ensure finance for various projects. The officials will first initiate anti-encroachment drive on these land and protect the plots with fencing, followed by various town planning schemes. The officials said this will entail developing the land and make it feasible for industries or corporate investments.
 
 “We are planning corporate and manufacturing hubs on the lines of Hinjewadi near the Chakan industrial belt and the proposed airport site at Purandar. As the hub in Hinjewadi has no scope for further expansion, we will plan similar facilities in the town planning scheme clusters along the outer side of the ring road. We are looking at many such clusters for overall development along the ring road area,” PMRDA chief Kiran Gitte told TOI.
 
 These clusters will largely come up on government land, while the PMRDA is also planning to acquire and develop private plots and sell those back to the owners. The officials are also assessing the Surat town planning model. 
 
 At present, the PMRDA has spatial data and its officials are in talks with urban planners for aggregating these clusters, Gitte said. These clusters, he said, “will lessen the saturation of Hinjewadi”. The new clusters coming up along the ring road will have potential for both industrial and residential hubs. Each cluster will be developed as a town planning scheme with approval from the government on the lines of land pooling by the MMRDA. 
 
 The PMRDA has undertaken the ring road project and it passes through many villages. It will be 129km long with a width of 110m. Among the other PMRDA projects are the 23.3-km metro rail from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar and addressing the one to check the Indrayani river pollution.
 
 
