Jaipur: Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) was second in the country in terms of charge-sheeting officers/employees and fourth in terms of registering cases, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria told the state   on Saturday. The home minister quoted National Crime Record Bureau’s report of 2015 in his statement.

 Kataria was replying on the attention motion moved by independent legislator Nand Kishore Maharia, who alleged that state ACB was violating Supreme Court directions on registering cases. Maharia accused ACB of promoting corruption and claimed that it did not follow court guidelines in 99.7% cases.
 
 Home minister Kataria, however, said, “In past three years, at its own initiative the ACB registered 803 cases of bribery, 165 cases of disproportionate assets and 423 cases of misuse of office. He added that complaints of non-cognizable nature were referred to the government departments concerned, complaints from anonymous persons were dismissed and complaints of serious offences were booked by the bureau.
 
 Kataria informed the house that in past three years ending on December 31, 2016, the ACB received 22,941 cases, of which 1,162 were registered after preliminary inquiries at different levels, FIRs were registered in 111 cognizable cases and 16,257 cases were referred to departments concerned. “In these three years, 4,705 complaints were dismissed,” the home minister said.
 
 Land registries in forest areas: Forest and environment minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar assured the house that the decisions related to ban on registry of land in Jamwa-Ramgarh constituency villages falling in the buffer zone of Sariska Tiger Reserve would be reviewed and efforts would be made to provide relief to the locals.
 
 A total of 83 villages were affected and of these 50 villages were on the Reserve’s periphery, while 33 villages were completely inside it. The matter was raised through attention motion by Jamwa-Ramgarh MLA Jagdish Narayan, who wanted to know if the ban on registry would be lifted or farmers would be compensated or rehabilitated elsewhere. The minister replied that he would examine the matter and let the legislator know of the government’s stand.
 
 Recovery of Sodala land compensation: UDH minister Shrichand Kriplani informed the House that the JDA has initiated the process to recover the compensation wrongly made to one Raghvendra Singh against 12 bigha and 7 biswa land in village Sodala in 1989. He assured to get a probe conducted in the matter by a senior officer within three months.
 
 
