ALLAHABAD: The   turned into a canvassing battleground on Tuesday when BJP president   and SP-Congress alliance spearheads Akhilesh Yadav and   staged roadshows on the final day of campaigning for the fourth phase of polls.

 The city came to a standstill, schools and colleges were shut. Such was the enthusiasm in both camps that the rivals couldn’t complete their full journey before the 5pm deadline. The BJP’s “Vijay Shankhnad” roadshow started from Allapur and was to finish at Ghanta Ghar, covering 6km. It had to end at Sulaki crossing, after which Shah didn’t have time to address supporters. The SP-Congress juggernaut started at Balson crossing and when it was about to reach the railway station — still 3km shy of the end point — the organisers realised they were running short of time and stopped the roadshow to allow the two leaders to speak.
 
 BJP workers may have been initially jittery about Shah’s roadshow coinciding with a similar show of strength by Akhilesh and Rahul, but Shah’s offensive strategy of taking on his rivals has certainly boosted the confidence of BJP candidates, including the party’s national spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh, who is contesting from Allahabad (West).
 
 Shah’s show had an unmistakable Modi stamp. There were cutouts of the PM everywhere. Party workers chanted “Har Har Modi, Ghar Ghar Modi” and “Ram lalla hum aayenge, mandir wahin banayenge” as flower petals were showered by supporters. “Irrespective of the candidate, it’s our firm belief in PM Modi that has brought us here,” said Amar Bahadur Patel, who had come with a group of supporters from Phulpur. The group reflected the support BJP seems to be getting from the poor and non-Yadav OBCs. Patel was accompanied by Lal Bahadur Bhatia, Mauji Lal Maurya and Tilak Bahadur Bind, all from Phulpur, where the party’s Praveen Patel is up against SP’s Mansoor Alam and BSP’s Masroor Alam.
 
 The surge in crowds as the roadshow passed through the narrow lanes of Allahabad was reminiscent of 2014’s Modi’s nomination procession that traversed through Varanasi’s bylanes. 
 
 Whether the show had done enough for the BJP to regain lost ground in the district though remains to be seen. As the Akhilesh-Rahul procession moved, supporters joined the show. Others threw garlands and rose petals on the two leaders, who greeted them with waving hands.
 
 The two leaders took on Modi on his charge of discrimination in power supply and tardy development in the state, saying people want development and not just empty promises.
 
 “Aap mujhe bataiye ki panch saal pehle kya haal tha bijli ka, aur uski ab se tulna kijiye (Tell me what was the condition of supply of electricity five years ago and compare it with what you are getting now)," Akhilesh asked the large crowd.
 
 “After coming to power, we will fulfil all the promises made for Allahabad, including that of provid ing Metro rail," he said, adding that people want work and not “Mann ki baat".
 
 Addressing the gathering, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi said: “UP mein alliance ki sarkar aayegi aur vikas ka kaam shuru hoga, jo kaam Modiji dhayi saal mein nahi kar paaye, hum unn kaamon ko pura karenge. Yuvaon ko rozgar denge (The alliance will come to power and development work will commence. What the Modi government has not done in two-and-a-half years, we will complete those... give employment to youth)."
 
 Prior to the roadshow, Rahul had stayed overnight at the historic Swaraj Bhawan and proceeded to Raebareli to address a public meeting on Tuesday morning.
 
 Perched atop a specially designed bus, the leaders were joined by Congress candidate from Allahabad North Anugrah Narayan Singh, SP candidate from Allahabad West Richa Singh and the SP candidate from City South, Haji Parvez Ahmad. Besides, the CM's cousin and Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav was also present.
 
