After making a sen sational claim that the crew of the film she was working in had harassed her,   has withdrawn from a related case.The actress had made the allegation against the crew including producer   of  .The other allegation was that she had been removed from the film without being remunerated.

 But now a compromise, supported by the film industry, seems to have made the actress bury the hatchet.
 
 Avantika has withdrawn her petition before the   in which she had sought a stay on the release of Raju Kannada Medium and to prevent other actors from dubbing for her character.
 
 She had earlier filed an original suit before the XXVII City Civil and Sessions Judge court seeking a stay on producer KA Suresh and his representatives or any other person “from dubbing the voice of the plaintiff through som other third party in the Kannada feature film Raju Kannada Medium“.
 
 The civil court had refused her application for the same in the case after which she had approached the HC.
 
 The petition in the HC, however, was not about the alleged harassment she faced from some of the crew. This allegation had created a huge controversy in the Kannada film industry. The actress later made it clear that her allegation about the harassment was not against the producer.
 
 Her grouse with the producer was only about the unpaid remuneration. This had resulted in a mud-slinging bout between the actress and the producer. The filmmaker alleged that the actress had not participated in the entire shooting schedule.
 
 The   ( ) had through its good offices brought about a compromise between the warring parties.
 
 However, details of what transpired in the meeting at KFCC was not made public.With the actress now withdrawing the petition before the HC before it could decide on the matter, it seems that the path for the film's release has been cleared.
 
 However, whether Avantika will dub for the film is not known yet. When contacted, Suresh did not reveal who is dubbing or has dubbed for Avantika's role in the film.
 
 
