The entire cast and crew of the show Naamkarann is shocked to learn about the sudden demise of  , who played Dayawanti Ben on the TV show currently on air.
 
  Actors from her show including Viraf Patel and   still can't believe the news.
  
  Gulfam Khan, who plays Fatima Bano, couldn't control her tears while talking about Reema Lagoo. She says, "I am devastated after hearing the news. I am not able to come to terms with the news. She was shooting with us till 7 pm yesterday. Reemaji was in such a good mood as we all were shooting for the sangeet ceremony. She had a bad throat so was not able to talk much. Life is so unpredictable."
  
  She added further, "This is not the first time we were working together. We earlier worked on Do Haason Ka Joda and there also we played samdhans. She was such a wonderful lady and she was the closest one on the sets to me. I shared a great rapport with her. She was an elder sister to me. Everyone used to address her as Maa on the sets. Once she got food for me which was her especiality. I will be attending her last rites today."
  
  READ ALSO:
  
 
  
  Actor Viraf Patel, who played her on screen son on the show, burst into tears while talking to Times Of India over the phone. He said, "I was just talking to a colleague from Naamkarann and got to know that she was working till last evening. I can't believe that she is no more with us. She was such a hardworking and meticulous lady. She was one of the most gorgeous ladies that I have ever met. She was majestic at her work and we all used to blush just looking at her when she used to give her shots. It is a heartbreaking news for me."
  
  Viraf shared a picture of himself with Reema Lagoo on Instagram and wrote, " Dear Reemaji,
  Strangely, late last night while you may have been grappling with your last breadth i was awake going through the stills of #naamkarann and guess what i stumbled upon? This photograph i had pulled aside, to send it to you. But now I wake up to news of you moving on to another form; another world and my hands have a strange tremble as i type this.
  This picture for me is our most special picture, amongst many others as it somewhat captures the quiet offscreen bond we had. The love and authority you would scold me with, encourage me with, guide me with, be mad at me will always remain special. Your smile, your tenacity, your sense of humour, your love for life, your enthusiasm for acting even after doing it for over 4 decades shone through as much as you.
  Am so glad we made up the last time we fought and i got to say sorry and you said lets make a new beginning Viraf, am so glad I got a chance to work all those hours with you and learn from you, all that i did. Am just very sorry for not sending you this pic earlier but am sure eventually you will see this note and picture, in your own way just the way you managed to do so most things that didn’t meet your gorgeous eyes. till then ..#withlove your last (onscreen) son."
  
  
  
  Zain Imam, who plays the leap now shared a message on Instagram and wrote, "A very humble human being. I still remember i used to tease you and that pat u would give me on my back. A god mother to half of #bollywood and a mentor to us. It was indeed a pleasure working with u ma'am #rip #Reemalagoo ji # May u shower ur blessings on us from heaven P.s:I would still remember u as kokkie ji from #shreemaan shreemati."
  
  
  
  Kunwar Amar, wh plays Alladin on the show wrote, "I have met so many people in my life but never felt what I felt for u, you were a mother to me and a friend my partner my ideal, your appreciation your love every moment that I got to spent with you is so precious to me, I never thought that this journey will end so soon, words are not enough to express my feelings, I ll always miss you, I use to call you maa and I use to mean it but you ll always remains the same in my life and memories, I can't thank god enough to letting me a part of you and have so many complain with him for taking her away so early, rest in peace Rima mam, ll always cherish each moment spent with you and ll miss u."
  
  
  
  The producers of Naamkarann have called off the shooting for today (May 18) and everyone including the cast will be attending the last rites to be held in Mumbai today. 
