MEERUT: As shocked classmates watched on, BSP leader Yakub Qureshi's daughter had barged into the   with a whip and beaten a Class VIII girl in front of everyone for snitching on Qureshi’s granddaughter to the class teacher. Rattled at the assault, some of the students have been missing classes ever since the incident two days ago. On Wednesday, as protests grew from parents, police applied for non-bailable   Asmaa and three others. 

 Police also arrested five men related to Qureshi and sent them to jail. This came a day after school authorities rusticated three children of the Qureshi family studying in the same school. Meanwhile, three more students from   who had accompanied the woman with the whip were also rusticated.
 
 Qureshi is one of the biggest meat exporters in Uttar Pradesh. His meat processing unit was, in fact, shut down during the recent crackdown by the UP government on illegal slaughter houses and meat processing units. Qureshi gained international notoriety for announcing a Rs 51-crore reward for the head of a   whose work was perceived to be critical of the Prophet. 
 
  
  
 
 Pankaj Pant, station officer, Sadar police station, said, “We have applied for non-bailable warrants for Qureshi’s daughter Asmaa and three others who are at large. Meanwhile, five people have been arrested in the case so far. They have been sent to jail.”
 
 During investigation and subsequent identification done from the CCTV footage, police said they have established that the woman who had entered the school’s classroom with a whip is Qureshi’s daughter Asmaa, who is still at large. In what has shocked students, teachers and parents alike, Asmaa allegedly beat up four students of Class VIII C for informing the teacher that Ramsha – Qureshi’s granddaughter – had bunked school and was “out with her boyfriend”.
 
  
  
 
 Sanjeev Agarwal, principal, Meerut Public School, said, “We have identified three more students who were from MPS Main Wing and had accompanied the woman with the whip and rusticated them too. We are banking on the CCTV footage and will check again to see if any other student was involved in the incident.” One of the students who have been expelled is Qureshi's son, who also studies at the same school. 
 
 Security has been stepped up at at school which appointed six more guards. It has also held interviews for four female guards. “A meeting of all school principals and Meerut SSP Manzil Saini has been finalized for July 15 so that we can cooperate with the district administration and police for security measures schools want to take in the light of this incident,” said Madhu Sirohi, principal, Meerut Public Girls School (West End Road).
 
