KOLKATA: In India, cricket has always been associated with instant fame and glamour. But the same cannot be said when it comes to the Women in Blue. However, with the Indian women’s cricket team entering the World Cup semifinals, the spotlight right now is on the girls. All eyes are now set on Thursday’s match in Derby, where Mithali Raj & Co. will take on the Australian eves for a berth in the final.

 The team’s recent performance has made Raj, Smriti Mandhana, Rajeshwari Gaekwad and, of course, Kolkata girl Jhulan Goswami into household names. “This has never happened before. Even a few days ago, people were more interested in the drama over selection of coach for the men’s team. Back-to-back wins of the women’s team has changed the scene. People are finally talking about our game,” said  , a first-year college student who represents Bengal in the under 19 women’s cricket team as a bowling all-rounder. Her fellow playmate Ayantika Guha rued that women’s games have always been taken casually. However, she is happy that the new breed of women cricketers are bringing the attention back.
 
 Not only the players, the rise of Indian women cricket has also brought in a host of new fans. “I never liked women’s cricket matches as they were extremely slow-paced. But the performance of this team has got me hooked,” said  , a cricket fan. 
 
 Even as the game has found new fans, everyone knows that the team is up against the defending champions on Thursday. Australia had handed India a crushing 8-wicket defeat in the group stage. “It will be a tough match but whatever the outcome is, we are happy that the team has enthused a new life into women’s cricket. We are proud as well as thankful to the players,” said Subhra Bhaduri, former Bengal cricketer.
 
 Bhaduri added that the change in attitude is reflected in the rise in her student count — from 60 to 118 — in the last two years. “Now parents actually want girls to play cricket. We are finally heading in the right direction,” she said.
 
