BENGALURU: The Indian Meterological Department’s ( ) final report for Karnataka confirmed that both the Southwest and   had failed in the state last year. All scientists are now looking towards the equatorial region in the Pacific Ocean this year — an increase in the temperature of the ocean’s surface by even one degree Celsius could result in another bad monsoon for the entire country. 

 In 2016, Karnataka was one of the 11 states that recorded a deficit southwest monsoon, besides being one of the 27 states in the country that received lesser-than-expected rainfall during northeast monsoon. The state registered a 15% deficit in the Southwest monsoon that lasts between June and September. The total rainfall received by the state in this four-month period in 2016 was 710.8mm, against a normal rainfall of 832.2mm. 
 
 The northeast monsoon, — expected between October and December — which affects some portions of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, Kolar and other southern districts saw a massive 71% deficit, though there ere predictions made in November that the shortfall would only be 15%. The State received just 53.9mm of rainfall, against 188.2mm, during the northeast monsoon. 
 
 In fact, the first two months of 2017 haven’t brought much relief to the state either. Against an expected 3.8mm, the state received only 2.8mm in January and Febraury - a 26% deficit. 
 
 While stating that the government must ensure that weather predictions by departments concerned must translate into good farming policies, M B Raje Gowda of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), said: “There must be a more effective way of communicating these things to the farmers, who continue to pick wrong crops even in failed seasons.”
 
 He said that so far as the cycle of rainfall goes, Karnataka is in the period of negative rainfall cycle and the deficit rain is normal. “When we analyse the pattern of rainfall from 1950, Karnataka witnesses eight seasons of excess rainfall and eight seasons of deficit. In that sense the deficit was expected and thus, normal, which is why we must have best practices on ground.”
 
 Former director in-charge, IMD, Bengaluru, B Puttanna, said that if increasing temperatures and depleting water resources will continue to affect the State, overexploitation of water may result in another season of hardship even if rainfall is better next monsoon.
 
 “Studies are already ongoing. While the most important observation will be at the Equatorial region in the Pacific Ocean. If the temperature there goes up even a little, say by 1 degree Celsius, it will impact our monsoon. The Indian Ocean, the Bay of Bengal and even the snow pattern in Jammu and Kashmir are all being studied to predict the next monsoon,” he said.
 
 Scientists at IMD said the model prediction for the southwest monsoon 2017 will be made on April 16, 2017. Puttanna said that so far as Karnataka goes, a normal monsoon should help the state recover, so long as water is managed well.
 
