VISAKHAPATNAM: Various student wings are opposed to the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) conducting its annual plenary ‘Mahanadu’ at the  , claiming that the government had itself issued an order dismissing all political activities on the premises of educational institutions. 

 An order issued by the AP State Council for Higher Education in September 2015 had stated that no college or university premises should be used for political and religious activities. Keeping this in view, the AU management had denied access to many associations, organisations and political parties when they approached the university for the grounds. After examining around five to six places in the city, the TDP had shortlisted the AU Engineering College Grounds to conduct its   that will be held from May 27 to 29. The chief minister’s son Nara Lokesh had also visited the site recently to review the arrangements for the three-day conclave. Now, the   student wing has raised objections to this and promises to approach the court if the party holds its plenary here. 
 
 “We came to know about the Mahanadu venue through newspapers. We have sent a letter to government referring to the Higher Educational Council’s orders issued in 2015. We will decide on the next course of action after the government’s reply,” vice-chancellor of AU G Nageswara Rao told TOI. 
 
 “A rule is a rule for all. We are not against the Mahanadu. But it should not be conducted in the educational institution. It would hamper the academic and research activities. We will knock the doors of the court, if the AU management decided to allot the grounds,” said Areti Mahesh, AP student JAC convenor. TDP city president Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has applied to the AU management for permission for the ground to conduct the Mahanadu. The VC said they have received the letter from the TDP city president, but are awaiting the government’s instructions. 
 
 “We had sought permission from AU to conduct the Yuvabheri in September 2015. They refused even after we assured them that we will not use YSRCP flags or banners as the programme was related to students. In November 2016, we again applied for the Jai Andhra Pradesh meeting, but AU management cited the same instruction and refused permission,” a YSRCP student wing leader said. 
 
 The AU management has been violating the norms by giving its premises for liquor shop auctions as well, city   party leader B Gopala Reddy said. However, state R&B minister Ch Ayyanna Patrudu said the people should cooperate as several decisions would be taken in the interest of the state at the Mahanadu. Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar had recently said increasing pollution levels in the port city is likely to be discussed at the TDP Mahanadu, with party leaders urging the high command to come up with a solution. The TDP leaders are planning to utilise the Mahanadu to come up with a solution and win the trust of the people, sources said. 
 
