CHARMINAR:   was suspended from the post of president of the   of a prominent masjid after he delivered a sermon, which angered a section of Muslims. Acting on a complaint,   put him under temporary suspension and barred him from further speeches.

 On January 24, Waseem delivered a Friday khutba at Masjid-e-Azizia in Humayun Nagar. While explaining a verse from the Quran, he spoke about Prophet Muhammad and revered religious personalities -   and  . Soon, a few members of the congregation objected to his speech and termed it misleading. Within hours, clips began to circulate on social media denouncing Waseem's speech even as some preachers from other schools of thought, challenged him for a debate. Complaints were made to the office of the assistant commissioner of police, Asif Nagar division. Later, an individual, Zaki Ahmed Khan, approached the board with a complaint. The State Waqf Board temporarily suspended Waseem even as it wrote to Islamic seminaries attaching a copy of the preacher's speech requesting them to give their opinion on the issue.
 
 "We have requested scholars from Jamia Nizamia, Darul Uloom, Al Mahad al Aali al Islami, Darul Qaza wal Ifta and Anwar ul Huda to give their opinion," said Telangana State Waqf Board chief executive officer Mohammed Asadullah. For his part, the preacher issued a public apology and clarified he has great respect for the revered religious figures. He explained he regretted the anguish caused on account of his speech.
 
 "I cannot even imagine issuing disparaging comments on these great personalities," he said. Keeping with the temporary suspension, the preacher on Friday did not deliver the khutba. Security at the masjid was tightened and police deployed. Assistant commissioner of police, Ghouse Mohiuddin, Asif Nagar division, told TOI on Friday that a case has been booked against Waseem.
 
 Clips began to circulate on social media and internet-based messaging services denouncing Waseem's speech even as some preachers from other schools of thought challenged him for a debate. Complaints were made to the office of assistant commissioner of police, Asif Nagar division.
 
