GANDHINAGAR: The   (AICC) has blocked plans of some Gujarat Congress leaders, to move to safer seats, instead of contesting of their current seats which they feel are not safe. 

 Senior Congress leaders like leader of opposition  , former state unit president Arjun Modhwadia who lost the 2012 elections,   spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil and other senior leaders are eyeing safe seats as their present seats are not considered safe in the upcoming elections. 
 
 Sources in the Congress privy to the instructions given to the Gujarat unit said: “AICC has decided to not let any Congress leaders change seats in the upcoming elections as it will lower the chances of the party increasing its tally and forming the government. The party will give tickets on the basis of winning prospects of local candidates. Senior leaders have to prove their leadership by winning their seats and helping others win as many seats as possible.”
 
 “The party has demanded detailed performance reports of all MLAs including their attendance in the assembly, issues raised inside and outside the assembly against the BJP, press conferences held, local issues raised through protest, presence and contribution at party programmes like protests etc,” sources added.
 
 Sources further added that: “Earlier, the party had asked all likely candidates to provide final lists of supporters and other activities. Their individual plans and list of workers per booth will also be given utmost consideration. In preparing the primary panel for the 182 constituencies which will begin on the 27th, all these factors will considered. The party will also consider the reach of sitting MLAs and ticket seekers on social media, their contribution in promoting the party in their areas and effective execution of directions from the national Congress leadership.”
 
 The AICC sought a report on caste and community equations in all 182 constituencies, voting trends of the last three assembly and Lok Sabha elections, last three local elections voting trends and even the likely  .
 
 
