PATNA: A lawyer has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the   against the ongoing protest of the state   Officers’ Association against the arrest of   Staff Selection Commission (BSSC)’s former chairman  .

 Filed on Wednesday, Manibhushan Sengar’s PIL says the agitating association members by forming a human chain outside the   on Sunday violated Section 144 of the CrPC under which prohibitory orders are always in force in the area. Their act was also a violation of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968, the PIL says.
 
 “The agitating IAS officials included at least 30 DMs. Appropriate action should be taken against them,” Sengar told TOI, explaining the purpose behind his PIL.
 
 Two days after the arrest of Sudhir on the charges of leaking questions of competitive examinations for recruitment of 13,120 clerks in government departments, the Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association had called on governor   on Sunday and submitted a memorandum. While a five-member delegation interacted with the governor inside the Raj Bhavan, around 50 IAS officers stood in the form of a human chain outside the main entrance, expressing solidarity with Sudhir.
 
 The memorandum demanded, among other things, a CBI probe into the BSSC job scam. 
 
 According to the advocate, Section 144 prohibits assemblage of five or more people at the place where it has been promulgated. “My PIL also seeks to know whether the 30 DMs took permission from the authority concerned to leave their HQ to be in Patna on the day,” said Sengar.
 
 As for the misconduct, Sengar said Section 7 of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 states that no member of the service shall make any statement of fact or opinion, which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the central or state government. “However, the association’s Bihar chapter secretary and treasurer made press statements against the arrest of Sudhir. The association has also reportedly adopted a resolution not to take so-called verbal orders from the higher authorities, including the chief minister’s office. These are brazen violation of the conduct rules,” he said.
 
