LUCKNOW: Across the entire  , one can see garbage piles, littered roadsides and stray cattle. For the past 10 years, people have waited eagerly for door-to-door collection garbage collection and trash-free localities, promised by the government at the time of establishing the Shivri solid waste management plant. Residents of areas like Mahanagar, Indiranagar, Gomtinagar, Nishatganj and New Hyderabad have decided now to elect a candidate who can assure to rid them of the menace.

 Sitting MLA Ashutosh Tandon aka Gopal ji, son of veteran BJP leader Lalji Tandon is not accessible, complained residents of the area. Most of the residents said they never saw him since he won the elections, while some don't even know who their MLA is.
 
 In every area TOI visited, there was ire against the poor civic condition. Gomtinagar resident Sudha Jaiswal said, “Since the time the sewage treatment plant was proposed, we were assured the city will be trash-free but even after 10 years, the situa tion has only worsened.“
 
 Another resident Shipra Rastogi said, “It seems no politician can be trusted. There was widespread propaganda in 2007 that all garbage will be collected from the doorstep and will get treated but nothing like that happened. We will vote this time only for a candidate who assures to free the city of garbage."
 
 Mahanagar resident Purab Sinha said, “There is neither any door-to-door collection of garbage, nor cleaning of roads and mar ket places. Residents have to pay to make sanitary workers clean the area."
 
 Besides piling garbage, residents complained of  , dysfunctional street lights, dilapidated sewer lines and irregular water supply.
 
 GOMTINAGAR | Residents of the posh localities of Gomtinagar have to face several problems, from choked sewer lines to nonfunctioning overhead tanks.None of the sewer lines are connected to main line in Nehru Enclave and the outlet is closed, as a result of which pipelines burst frequently because of excessive pressure or seeping.President of Nehru Enclave's resident welfare association Vipin Bakshi said, “Every other day we have to get the pipelines repaired at our expense."
 
 INDIRANAGAR | Despite tall claims by the corporation that the area is covered under door-todoor garbage collection scheme, the residents of Indiranagar are disgusted with piles of trash and rampant encroachment. The spot in front of Sukh complex at Munshipulia is never free from garbage piles, which attracts stray animals. State president of vyapari sangh Dharmendra Sinha said in past few years an unauthorised e-rickshaw parking has come up at the Munshipulia intersection, resulting in constant traffic congestion.
 
 MAHANAGAR | The area is dotted with broken roads and craters. The lane leading to the RTO office is extensively dug up in the past several years.
 
 Residents said after numerous complaints the corporation approved the work but the contractor left it halfway. Similar is the condition in Mahanagar Extension and parts of Raheemnagar. A resident of the area, Mohan Khanduri said, “Jal Sansthan dug the road one year back to lay pipelines and then left it open. Even the women of the colony got together and approached the LMC Zone III office but nothing happened."
 
 NISHATGANJ | From Paper Mill colony to Badshahnagar or the railway colony, drains across Nishatganj are open and choked. Sewage overflows everywhere. There are three manholes lying open near Fatima Hospital for the past two years and several accidents took place because of it. After numerous complaints lodged with the MLA and the corporator went unheard, they finally got it fixed on their own.
 
 NEW HYDERABAD | Another posh area, which despite being home to several politicians and senior officials, is full of stray cattle and dogs. Most of the roads are dotted with big potholes and open main holes.
 
