PANAJI: Less than three months ago, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) had severed ties with the BJP expecting that it would successfully ride on the resentment against saffron party in the recently-held polls.

 The February 4 elections was an acid test for the MGP to prove its performance and it was not a great success. The dream of party supremo Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar to become the CM couldn’t be fulfilled as MGP realized that it was not easy for the party to win against BJP despite the high resentment against the saffron party. Both the parties clamoured for the same right-wing vote bank and MGP couldn’t get more than three seats, the same it had when it was in alliance with BJP in 2012.
 
 During the election campaign, Dhavalikar had not fully agreed to the medium-of-instruction (MoI) issue propounded by RSS-rebel Subhash Velingkar’s Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM).
 
 In an interview to TOI recently, Dhavalikar had said that it was not easy to suddenly withdraw grants to the 134 English medium schools indicating that he would not push for a change in MoI policy in the current term. On the results day, Dhavalikar admitted that MoI was not a major issue in the elections.
 
 Sources in the party said that during the poll result analysis, Dhavalikar felt that there was no gain by going alone in the polls and that alliance with BJP was the best option in future. All through, MGP was against then CM Laxmikant Parsekar and never against defence minister  . 
 
 In fact, as reported on Saturday, Dhavalikar confirmed what TOI had reported – that MGP would join hands with BJP in the formation of a new government provided Parrikar was the CM. Sources said that a top leader of BJP was in touch with Dhavalikar a few days ago as the BJP had anticipated a hung assembly.
 
 In brief, MGP’s decision to join hands with BJP and form the government though the mandate was not in favour of the saffron party, was due to many reasons. First, to be in power with high positions. Second, MGP realized that going in alliance with BJP would be a win-win situation for both the parties. 
 
 Third, Dhavalikar enjoys cordial relations with Union minister for shipping  . Fourth, BJP is a like-minded party for the MGP and not the Congress. Ideological and cultural issues, MGP believes in could be facilitated effectively by BJP.
 
 Sources in the party said that during the poll result analysis, Dhavalikar felt that there was no gain by going alone in the polls and that alliance with BJP was the best option in future. All through, MGP was against then CM Laxmikant Parsekar and never against defence minister Manohar Parrikar.
 
