Gurgaon: Power   Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) has revised its transfer policy for officials of the rank of junior engineer up to executive engineer, sources disclosed to TOI.

 Under the previous policies, sources claimed, transfers would happen suddenly and arbitrarily, often disappointing the officials being transferred.
 
 In a notification issued on Thursday, DHBVN said the new policy comes into force with immediate effect and will supersede all previous instructions issued in this regard, even though the revised policy is pending approval from the discom’s board of directors. 
 
 The new policy limits the period of transfers to the month of April. 
 
 “All annual general transfers will be ordered between April 1 and April 30, to enable the transferred officers to join by May 1. No transfers shall be made during the rest of the year,” the notification reads.
 
 The policy states an assistant executive engineer (AEE) or assistant engineer (AE) can be posted in a particular area for only two years.
 
  “They shall not be posted for more than eight years in one sub-division in their entire service span,” it states.
 
 The policy also bars posting AEEs and executive engineers in their home division.
 
 While   officials welcomed the decision to restrict the transfers to one month, they expressed reservations about limiting the tenure at a post to two years. “Earlier, officers could be transferred at the whim of the discom,” said a power official under condition of anonymity. “Now they will be transferred only in the month of April. Many officials’ children had exams going on when they were suddenly transferred to another place, and this created a lot of problems. That seems to have been sorted out now,” he said. 
 
 “But restricting the posting for AEEs and AEs to two years has struck a discordant note with some officials. When a new official joins, it takes him around 6 months to just figure out his jurisdiction, and another year to draft proper papers and policies, changes and improvements that could be effected. Just when he has begun to get familiar with the area, he will be transferred. This will take a toll on the management and operations, and things will come back to square one. The minimum tenure must be increased to five years,” the official added.
 
 
