NAGPUR: The growing complaints of irregularities, including financial misappropriation, by vice chancellor R Dani of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth ( ) has prompted state agriculture minister   to withdraw all administrative and financial powers of the VC. The minister has also directed Dani not to take any major decisions till his term ends on August 14.

 Fundkar told TOI that there are many complaints against Dani about financial misappropriations and other irregularities. His citizenship is also being questioned. 
 
 “I have stayed all his powers and directed Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research (MCAER) to ensure that the order is implemented properly. It is a very serious issue and I am going to take extremely serious action against him. But, before that, we have to appraise the Maharashtra Governor about all this,” said Fundkar.
 
 He added that Dani has been out of the country for half the year during his term, and has not performed his duties with honesty. In fact, even now Dani is in USA since April 3. This,   said, calls for punitive action, which would be coming in the near future.
 
 TOI is in possession of a letter dated April 1, written by the agriculture minister to the Director General of MCAER, directing him to ensure that no major administrative and financial decisions are taken by the PDKV VC.   Kondiram Nagargoje confirmed receiving such a letter. He told TOI that he had written a letter to the university VC, which will be reaching the PDKV office on Wednesday.
 
 The letter raised questions about Dani’s working style. But the DG clarified that similar letters will be issued to all VCs six months before retirement, to prevent irregularities in the working of universities.
 
 University registrar VM Bhale said he could not comment on the issue unless he receives the letter. He said Dani was in USA at present.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in PDKV said earlier two agriculture ministers, Vikhe Patil and Eknath Khadse, had also received complaints against Dani. 
 
 Besides the dispute about his citizenship, there are complaints about his qualifications and suitability for the VC post. “He has remained absent from his duty during winter assembly session, when all officials are directed to be on duty,” said a source.
 
 Sources also alleged Dani has forged travel bills. He is known to be absent from most important meetings of the university. He is also said to have never bothered to listen to grievances of the staff.
 
 
