WASHINGTON: Has India missed a diplomatic gambit by opting to pursue contacts through formal, regular channels with the Trump administration amid clear signs that new shortcuts are the way the go in   DC?

 New Delhi may be grappling with that question as news that President Trump's son-in-law and senior advisor   has 
  on Monday with top US military officials to review the fight against ISIS confirms the growing view that he is go-to man in the US capital, particularly where foreign relations are concerned. Although Kushner is tasked primarily with bringing about middle-east peace, his expanding portfolio - both domestic and international - is drawing attention of foreign governments looking for   access.
 
 Washington's mostly liberal punditocracy is in shock and awe at 
  , considering he's only 36 and has no prior foreign policy expertise outside global real estate deals. But the US President appears to have great faith in his son-in-law's diplomatic nous ("If you cannot broker peace in the middle-east, no one can," Trump told Kushner publicly some weeks ago), and foreign governments have quickly cottoned on to the remark as a sign that he will be a major player in Washington on foreign policy issues. 
 
 China is among the countries that have homed into Kushner. Beijing's ambassador to Washington, Cui Tiankai has reportedly established a "busy back channel" with Kushner. The two have worked on China's President Xi Jinping's visit to the US later this week, centering on bilateral talks at Mar-A-Lago, Trump's "Southern White House" in Florida.
 
 According to one report, Cui and Kushner not only agreed on Mar-a-Lago as the site for the meeting, the Chinese ambassador went so far as to send Kushner drafts of a joint statement that China and the   could issue afterward. "While Chinese officials have found Trump a bewildering figure with a penchant for inflammatory statements, they have come to at least one clear judgment: In Trump's Washington, his son-in-law is the man to know," the New York Times observed.
 
 India on the other hand has preferred to work - at least publicly - through formal and familiar tracks, even though those channels continue to be thinly and sketchily staffed. In back-to-back visits, two senior Indian officials - 
  and National Security Advisor 
  - met key cabinet principals, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis, and Homeland Security Secretary  , but not the likes of Jared Kushner and Steve Bannon, who are formally Trump's advisors, but also his troubleshooters.
 
 Asked about the new play in town, Indian officials cryptically said New Delhi has "evolved its channels" and it was aware of the new dynamics in Washington. They felt the need to be publicly restrained in speaking about contacts. 
 
 But in background briefings during the visit, some officials had bristled at questions on whether they should be using the newly emerging channels, maintaining that the secretaries are significant players and would eventually be handling the nuts and bolts of policy, and suggesting that it may not be good form to engage publicly with new players outside the formal channels.
 
 But it is no secret in the US Capital that the State Department has been marginalized, and Secretary Tillerson stands sidelined beyond the massive budget cuts imposed by Trump on Foggy Bottom. Tillerson himself compounded the sense of his isolation last week when he confessed in an interview that he did not want the job, and he took it only because his wife wanted him to.
 
 "My wife told me I'm supposed to do this. She said 'God's not through with you,"' Tillerson said in comments that generated mirth in a city where the power matrix is watched closely. 
 
 On Monday, the White House schedule showed Tillerson slated to meet Trump at 2.30pm - after the President hosts Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi for a working lunch - even as social media trolls noted that Kushner has gone to Iraq even before the Secretary of State.
 
 "How is Jared Kushner actively performing SOS (Secretary of State) duties when he has not been vetted?," asked one post tagged to Senator  , a trenchant critic of Trump's foreign policy methods. 
 
 The White House had not explained at the time of writing what exactly Kushner's role is in the Iraq sortie, but he reportedly he went at the invitation of the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff Joseph Dunford. 
 
 According to one account, Dunford himself discovered Kushner's influence - and grace - when he walked into White House Situation Room meeting to discuss North Korea, and found all the chairs around the table occupied. He was headed for the backbenches when Kushner offered his chair to the general and took a seat along the wall.
 
