Visakhapatnam: Patients admitted to hospitals or visiting hospitals with some ailments are sometimes found to contract new kinds of ailments during their hospital stay or even during their visit as out-patients.

 These ailments won’t be present beforehand in the patients but they would get these new infections solely from the hospitals. Such ailments commonly occur in health set-ups where hygiene, ventilation and cleanliness are compromised and are called nosocomial infections or hospital acquired infections (HAI).
 
 The disease causing pathogens in the hospital can be fungus, bacteria, virus, including staphylococcus and pseudomonas bacteria, which are responsible mainly for respiratory tract infections, cold and cough or Esch.Coli causing urinary tract infections (UTI) and pathogens causing diarrhoea or other stomach ailments. Chances of blood-borne HIV and   too can’t be ignored if infected needles or equipment/machines are shared.
 
 Elaborating on the main causes of nosocomial infections, Dr N Lakshmi, associate professor of microbiology department at   (KGH) and member of   (HICC) stated, “One of the main risk factors of nosocomial infections is lack of proper sterilisation or disinfection of equipment and operation theatres. Ideally, autoclave the equipment at 120 degree Celsius for 20 minutes under 20 lb pressure. But water shortage may cause problems in proper sterilisation.”
 
 “Secondly, hospital staff including doctors and nurses who directly deal with patients may not be well but still work with some illness and may transfer these infections to patients. Food and water supplied to patients may also get contaminated if not cooked the hygienic way and again cause stomach infections. Another important source of HAI is cross infections from other patients. Generally, in government hospitals, gaps between two beds in the wards is minimal. At times, the wards are too overcrowded and patients have to share beds or sleep on the floor in close proximity to other patients. This escalates chances of cross infections in other patients, who are already immunocompromised having undergone surgeries or some intensive treatment.”
 
 “Besides the above factors, disposal of biomedical or hospital waste also plays an important role in keeping the environment and premises clean and hygienic. The waste needs to be properly segregated, disinfected and disposed-off daily and measures should be taken against littering of garbage and water stagnation to prevent vector-borne diseases. Since hospitals like KGH are situated in the heart of the city, it’s not possible to have incinerators (where pathological and anatomical wastes, bed linens, gloves and such stuff can be burnt at 1000 degree Celsius). Incinerators emanate a lot of smoke and fumes,” added associate professor of microbiology at  . 
 
 However, it’s not just the in-patients who are at risk. Out-patients too are vulnerable to the risk. Abroad, especially in the West, the air in the hospital, especially at the entrance, hallways, passage ways and ICUs is sterilised using ultraviolet and gamma radiation. But since this costly practice may not be viable in most hospitals here, at least certain precautions can be taken to prevent nosocomial infections to a great extent, point out doctors.
 
