NEW DELHI: The BCCI’s threats to pull the Indian team out of the Champions Trophy ended with a whimper on Sunday. Left with no choice after the   told it not to adopt a confrontational approach with the ICC, the BCCI’s Special General Meeting (SGM) unanimously cleared the participation of the Indian team, the event's defending champions.

 The meeting apparently did not began on such a conciliatory note. According to sources who were present at the SGM, former   president N Srinivasan, who was representing the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association, joined the meeting from London via Skype. Srinivasan suggested issuing a legal notice to the ICC to revoke the Member Participation Agreement (MPA), said the sources.
 
 At least three representatives — Abhay Apte (Maharashtra), Kapil Malhotra (Cricket Club of India) and Rajeev Shukla (Uttar Pradesh, and   chairman) — apparently responded that India would lose out massively in terms of revenue and could also face sanctions from the world governing body if it pulled out of the MPA.
 
 Gauging the mood of the house, Srinivasan then dropped his suggestion, said the sources. It was followed by the members even coming out of the meeting room and saying that there wasn't any talk about pulling out of the Champions Trophy.
 
 The BCCI and ICC have been at odds after ICC reduced India's revenue share from $570 million to $293 million. It was revealed to the members thro ugh the CoA that India would be lo sing around Rs 150 crore per year if BCCI's original demand to ICC was not considered. The members also understood that if India plays three to four more bilateral games in a year, it would make up the loss.
 
 “The outcome of the meeting has been positive. India will participate in the Champions Trophy . There is no pulling out. Tomorrow (Monday) the squad will be sent to ICC. The honorary secretary (Amitabh Choudhary) has been authorised to renegotiate with ICC as far as the financial model is concerned,“ IPL chairman Rajeev Shukla said.
 
 CoA chairman Vinod Rai too welcomed BCCI's decision. “I am happy that BCCI took the decision to play .I had assured   and Anil Kumble that the team will travel, but the process will take some time. BCCI should concentrate more on the governance model, less on revenue. $100 mil lion extra is good enough. The rest they can make up by playing bilateral series. They have lost out on negotiations over the governance structure.They should have concentrated more on that. Till the AGM ratifies it in June they can discuss the issue,“ Rai said.
 
 Acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary , however, denied that India taking part in the Champions Trophy was a climbdown by the board. “BCCI reserves all legal options against the ICC. Playing in the Champions Trophy does not mean we agree with ICC's revenue and governance model. Not only revenue share but governance structure is also an issue,“ Chaudhary said. “Negotiation process will be an ongoing one before the ICC annual conference in June. Other members I spoke to the during April round of meetings are also keen on amicably resolving the matter. The SGM is unanimous on one aspect. Our position as predominant cricket country shouldn't be diminished. Most ICC members empathise with India. Now renegotiation is a sensitive issue. I wouldn't like to comment on any figures,“ he added.
 
 “There were two parts to the transformation that the ICC will be going through. The financial model is part of that.
 
 “The major changes are those proposed for governance. I think all of us should be devoting ourselves to what is more importantthat which will have greater consequences,“ he said.
 
 Sources insisted that India still has reservations about the current voting rights being expanded from 10 Full Members to 15.
 
 
