MUMBAI:   doesn’t need a merger to grow and has a blueprint for expansion in place, chief executive   said. “It is good to feel like a beautiful bride that everybody is aspiring for, but the point is that the beautiful bride is not putting up her hand for marriage,” Sharma told ETin an interview. “You can have a lot of suitors but there is not going to be a marriage.”
 
  The stock has surged 17% in a month amid speculation that potential suitors such as Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and IndusInd Bank are eyeing it with view to a merger or an acquisition. All the banks mentioned have denied or declined to comment on the matter.
  
  Axis is regarded as a prize for delivering the second-best returns among major banks for shareholders in eight years and building a franchise that’s well positioned to capitalise on India’s multi-year growth story.
  
  Founded as UTI Bank in the early 90s in the first round of private sector bank licensing by the Reserve Bank of India, its market value is now at Rs 1.26 lakh crore as of Thursday’s close — Rs 527.65 on the BSE. It’s been the top bank in debt syndication in the country for nearly a decade and is among the top three in equity markets as well. Its retail deposit market share is 5% while in retail loans it’s 6% and on credit cards, 10%.
  
  Among major banks, Axis has delivered the second-best returns after HDFC Bank since 2009, the year Sharma moved into the corner office. The bank has delivered 410% returns, compared with the Nifty Bank index’s 308% in the period, according to the ETIG database. For State Bank of India, this stands at 105% and for ICICI Bank, 206%.
  
  Government-owned entities together hold 30.2% of Axis with Life Insurance Corporation of India having 14.49% and the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust Of India (SUUTI) 12.02%.
  
  The government has not said what it plans to do with its stake. The lender has not been sounded out by any suitors, Sharma said.
  
  “We haven’t been approached by anybody and frankly for Axis at this point of time there is so much to do,” she said. “We have always believed in the India story. I have now been with the bank for almost eight years. It was always a strong franchise and in the last eight years, we have only grown and strengthened that franchise."
  
  While the government and even the regulator may be talking about consolidation of banks in the context of state-run lenders that are crippled without capital, Sharma said Axis does not need a merger to grow.
  
  “You would want to do an acquisition because you are in a stagnating market and you need to take out cost,” said Sharma. “That is not the case in India. We believe our country is a long-term growth story, so we are clearly in the growth and investing mode.
  
  We are not in the consolidating mode. We think scale for the sake of scale to take out costs is not the thesis that is right for us at this point of time.”
  
  The bank drew up a long-term growth programme last year that has been approved by the board and the results will soon be apparent, she said.
  
  Pursuing that is the best strategy. “At this point of time, doing anything inorganic would be a distraction for the bank,” she said. “We are well capitalised, so we don’t have a shortage of capital. We have got the people and the process capability.” 
