 finance minister   says his budget for 2017-18 is focused on development and growth. The state has recorded 12.21% GDSP — 5% higher than GDP — which shows the government’s commitment towards public welfare, he tells TOI in an exclusive interview. 

 
 I’d say infrastructure, urban development, education, drinking water, backward class welfare,  , horticulture, renewable energy and all other sectors where the government has initiated new schemes. Apart from maintaining the pace of growth, allocation in these sectors has been increased considerably.
 
 
 It’s clear that MP is unaffected by demonetisation. Besides, Punjab, Delhi, Haryana and   are manufacturing states and they have more resources to generate revenue. MP is a non-manufacturing state and VAT and   are two major revenue generators. We cannot reduce VAT on petro products. It has been discussed and the government is in no mood to do it.
 
 
 Narmada Sewa Yatra is an ambitious project conceptualised and launched by chief minister  . Narmada is sacred river and a lifeline. The public awareness campaign launched by the CM has turned into a movement. Initially, we have allocated funds for afforestation but we can increase allocation as needed. 
 
 
 Cooperatives got Rs 800 crore last year, and the government has already allocated funds for converting short loans to medium-term loans. In agriculture, more than Rs 4000 crore was distributed as relief to farmers affected by calamities. Besides, funds were allocated to commerce and industry department as arrears last year to boost industries. This is why the government decided to slash allocation but if there is any requirement, funds will be provided in the supplementary budget. 
 
 
 Allocations have been planned according to development plans and schemes. The Centre has said states will have their share of tax and will be compensated for revenue loss. Hence, there is no second opinion for another budget.
 
 
 Digitisation is being done by the respective departments. We do not have a separate plan. As far as cashless transactions go, the state is not at all affected by demonetisation. Still we have been doing strenuous efforts to promote cashless transactions and have waived stamp duty and service tax on car swipe machines. Is this not enough?
 
 
 We have kept our promise of not opening any new liquor shop. Also, we have asked all liquor shops near river Narmada and highways to be removed. Other things are clearly mentioned in our excise policy.
 
