PUNE: Different forces working towards  , in scattered manner presently, should be brought together for better results, chief minister   said on Sunday.

 The convergence of  , youth energy, technology, citizen participation and funds from the corporates are key for the  , the chief minister said while speaking at the launch of a fellowship programme under the ‘Maharashtra Village Social Transformation Foundation’ here.
 
 “Many schemes are available with the government for citizens’ benefit and social reforms. At the same time, various corporates are also working towards resolving social issues through their corporate social responsibility initiatives. But all these works are happening in a scattered manner, thus, not reflecting any visible change on the ground. The ‘Maharashtra Village Social Transformation Foundation’ aims to bring all these initiatives and people under one roof,” he said.
 
 The fellowship programme will help the state rural development ministry carry out reforms at different villages, mostly drought-affected. Various companies are funding the initiative as a part of their CSR activities.
 
 As per state officials, the government has already selected districts in Vidarbha, north Maharashtra and   based on low human development index. “Over 100 youngsters will carry out different development works in these areas for two years,” they said.
 
 “If the villages are developed, it will reduce the burden of migration on cities. This will ultimately lead to the overall progress of the state,” Panjaka Munde, minister for rural development, said.
 
 She said five-year plans for village development should be drafted and implemented with the help of various stake holders, including citizens and corporates.
 
 Anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare, who was also present, said the change will occur if proper works are carried out at local levels. “The change in Delhi (central level) will not make a difference in the society and the country. If improvement takes places at ‘galli’ (local areas), then only we can have a developed nation,” he stressed.
 
 Actor Amir Khan also interacted with fellowship recipients via video conferencing and appealed to them to dedicate their time and energy to make this project a success.
 
