NEW DELHI: New   data derived from satellite imagery suggests that the severe levels of particulate matter (PM2.5, or respirable pollutants) seen in Delhi are also found throughout the 22 districts of the National Capital Region (NCR). These findings raise alarm about potentially serious adverse effects on the health and livelihoods of NCR residents outside of Delhi and underline the importance of a coordinated response to pollution across NCR.
 
  
 
 
 Till now the focus has been on the pernicious effects of pollution in the major urban centres, but the new data will help shine the light on exposure to contaminated air in rural areas and smaller cities. For instance, Rewari in Haryana, like other relatively sparse NCR districts far from Delhi, recorded annual PM2.5 levels several times higher than the   standard of 10 micrograms per cubic metre between 1998 and 2014. And between 1998 and 2014, NCR districts in Uttar Pradesh to the southeast of Delhi — Bulandshahr, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad — registered pollution levels comparable to or even higher than in the national capital.
  
 Rural populations tend to be more vulnerable to the effects of air pollution on their health and livelihoods since most residents work outdoors, where pollution levels are systematically higher than those indoors. Rural populations also have comparably poorer health and poorer access to health care than their urban counterparts, making them more likely to get sick from pollution exposure and less likely to get better. Moreover, air pollutants associated with particulate matter have been show to harm crops and reduce agricultural yields, meaning that air pollution could contribute to deepening poverty.
  
 Until now, analyses of air pollution in NCR have relied primarily on a handful of permanent ground monitors run by the Central Pollution Control Board, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the US embassy, all located in or just outside the capital. The satellite data, in contrast, measure pollution levels for every square kilometre across India. The new data were made available by Aaron van Donkelaar, an atmospheric scientist from Dalhousie University, and coauthors, who produced the estimates based on observations from NASA satellites. The satellite imagery provides a measurement called aerosol optical depth (AOD), which is the degree to which aerosols, or particles in the air, prevent transmission of light in an area and is considered a proxy for air quality.
  
 Health ministry deputy commissioner Dr Damodar Bachani acknowledged the widespread impact of air pollution in rural areas. “I have seen satellite images which show even rural areas are equally badly affected. The sources of air pollution may be different in rural areas but you cannot isolate urban air from rural air. The impact of air pollution also strongly dependent on wind direction because of which many rural areas are affected when wind brings pollution from other polluted areas.” While we dont know for sure what is causing severe air pollution in these districts of Uttar Pradesh, the sources identified by various research organisations include industries, brick kilns, vehicles, crop fires, waste burning and others. We also know that there are thermal power plants to the east of Delhi and the brick kilns are primarily to the northeast.
  
 The NCR’s counter magnet areas, or towns and cities that act as alternatives to Delhi as centres of growth and attract migrants, among them Kanpur, Bareilly and Patiala, often suffer bad air, with pollution ranging from poor to severe. Despite this, the National Capital Region Planning Board’s Regional Plan 2021 has no mechanism to address air pollution. It only states, “The pollution impacts have to be identified through appropriate field research studies so that the levels and types of industrialisation can be established for different sub-regions.” 
 
  
  
  
 Proper enforcement of the December 2, 2016, order of the Supreme Court on the MC Mehta petition against air pollution could reverse the trend. The court directed the notification and implementation of a graded response action plan for the entire NCR. Such a plan envisages action to reduce emissions from various sources depending on the air quality status. For example, when air quality is rated as ‘emergency’ (PM 2.5 levels higher than 300 micrograms per cubic metre persisting for 48 hours), the entry of trucks into Delhi, other than for essential commodities, is be stopped, vehicles on roads lowered through the odd-even scheme and other steps taken, like banning waste burning, closing brick kilns and controlling emissions from industrial units and hot mix plants.
 
  
  
  
 “It has to be seen how stringently this graded response action plan is enforced in the NCR,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of Centre for Science and Environment’s clean-air campaign. “To check industrial pollution, it’s important to stop the use of polluting fuels like furnace oil and pet coke, transition to modern technology for brick kilns, change thermal power plants in Dadri and Jhajjar to natural gas and upgrade emission norms for commercial vehicles to Bharat Stage 4 at the earliest.”
  
 The union health ministry has recently included chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) — a health condition closely associated with exposure to polluted air — in its non-communicable diseases programme. As Dr Bachani pointed out, “We know of pollution’s association with chronic respiratory diseases, some cancers, heart ailments, low birth weight of new-borns, early onset of cataract and other effects.”
  
 On December 20 last year, the NCR Planning Board reviewed the measures being taken by the four member states and Punjab to contain air pollution in the capital and has directed them to submit detailed action plans.
 
 
 
 
