 On March 23, 1931, at 7.30pm,  , Shivaram Hari   and   Thapar were hanged at   jail. Their hanging had been preponed by 11 hours by a panicky Raj.
 
  On Thursday, the   paid homage to the three icons on Shaheed Divas a good 60 minutes after the declared time of event. The MLAs, most of them AAP members, waited until 11.30am for chief minister   to arrive. Perhaps a bit too tired of waiting out in the heat, leader of opposition and BJP MLA Vijender Gupta decided to pay floral tributes first and leave.
  
  Only one MLA showed no sign of tiredness, AAP’s Delhi Cantt MLA, Commando Surender Singh. He was the first to take his seat when the clock had struck 10.30—the scheduled time of the event—and continued to sit with rapt attention until the CM’s arrival. An Armyman’s sense of discipline and order was on perfect display in front of the statue of the man who had been on a hunger strike for 116 days, protesting the pathetic treatment meted out to Indian political prisoners in British-run jails.
  
  Then the CM arrived and the floral tributes were paid. The ceremony was short and uneventful with no political speeches whatsoever. But the best part was yet to come. And that was a welcome departure from everyday politicking that happens in the legislatures across the country.
  
  Since last year, the Delhi assembly has been organising a lecture series. On Thursday was the second edition of the lecture series with noted lawyer, author and historian A G Noorani talking about “the trial of Bhagat Singh and his relevance today”. And boy, what an eye-opener it was.
  
  Noorani had authored a book, ‘The Trial of Bhagat Singh’, in 1996. He had consulted original proceedings of the court cases and other documents, which, he lamented, haven’t been published in their entirety in a book form. He beseeched the  , particularly chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister  , to publish the original trial proceedings in both Hindi and English. Both the top ministers and Chandni Chowk MLA Alka Lamba said aye to the request.
  
  Noorani then gave a jurist’s take on the trial, while offering sneak peeks into the life and times of the young revolutionary. “The trial was a farce. The Viceroy, Lord Irwin, wanted him dead. So he took the ordinance route to finish him off,” Noorani said.
  
  Elaborating on his point, Noorani said, “Maulana Azad, while being tried for sedition, had said, ‘No penalty is equal to my trial.’ That says something, doesn’t it? When the rulers are just, courts are exemplary institutions; when the rulers are unjust, no instrument is more dangerous than the court.”
  
  Noorani said the trial should be read by all to see and understand the “politics of justice” as also the exemplary conduct of Singh and his comrades, and the people who defended them. “The Lahore bar had thrown its weight behind the revolutionaries. Congress leaders, Muslim Leaguers, even Allama Iqbal had all rallied around him. Jinnah had slammed the government, saying that ‘the man who goes on a hunger strike is a man who has a soul’. That was a secular fight. But the very powerful Bombay, Karachi and Calcutta bars had failed the revolutionaries when they needed them,” Noorani said.
  
  The case itself was on flimsy grounds, which would have been defeated if it had progressed naturally, say many historians. “So the Viceroy decided to use the provision of ordinance in the Government of India Act, 1919, to cut short the normal trial process and take it through the faster route of a tribunal. It was an unfair move. Irwin knew that he couldn’t do it by going to the Central Assembly, as the anti-British groups were in a majority there. So he declared an emergency,” Noorani said.
  
  He pointed out how the Indian government still takes the ordinance route to pass laws, bypassing the legislature. “In robust democracies like Britain, Canada, even US, parliaments are summoned on an emergency basis when the need arises. In India, we still use the colonial ordinances even though these are no longer in use even in Britain,” Noorani said.
  
  He next talked about Singh’s ideals. “He parted ways with Lala Lajpat Rai when he became communal. But when Rai died after being hit by a police baton charge, Singh decided to avenge him, for he was still a man of principles. And he did.”
  
  “He was a man of vision. He was against war and thought wars can’t solve any problems. He needs to be celebrated. Look at  . The civil society there has been fighting tooth and nail to make Bhagat Singh a national icon, despite the mullahs being around, despite the level of fundamentalism that country suffers from,” Noorani said.
  
  But what about the recent attempts by the Hindutva groups and the Right-wing in general to appropriate Singh’s legacy? Someone in the audience asked this question. “Bhagat Singh had said, ‘Nobody who espouses communalism can be a member of our organization.’ But what is happening in India right now? Communal poison is being spread in the air by the rulers. Aapne ek firqaparast ko UP ka CM bana diya. What message is being given to the society? The Prime Minister indulges in shameful talk of qabaristan and cremation grounds,” Noorani said.
  
  Just then, and this was the end of the lecture, Vijender Gupta ambled in, almost in time to hear his party’s criticism. He asked Noorani if he has no respect for democracy and the huge people’s mandate in UP and the country.
  
  “Every democratic country has a constitution. And the constitution is an expression of mistrust in people’s mandate. It’s supposed to keep the system intact even if horrible people are elected. And a big mandate is no licence to do horrible things. Look at Donald Trump. And look at how the American press has been highly critical of him. That’s not showing disrespect to the people’s mandate. Hitler had also won the popular vote. But do you think the people would have still supported him after the disastrous war?”
  
  The answer made everyone silent. Slow claps followed.
