KOLKATA: In its 2017-18 financial year   passed on Wednesday, the   ( ) has decided not to increase tax burden on citizens. The civic body’s board of councillors meeting concluded with the decision to emphasize on taking up various civic development work as well as increasing revenue but not by increasing tax rate. Instead, it will be collected from other avenues like property tax, amusement tax, parking fees and others based on the existing tax structure.

 Corporation mayor Sabyasachi Dutta said the aim is to earn revenues and provide all civic amenities to citizens without burdening them with increased tax. “However, to ensure proper tax collection, there will not be any relaxation on the existing tax rate,” he said.
 
 The civic authorities have set a target of collecting around Rs 58 crore from property tax this year. Stress will be given on taking up development work and sprucing up civic amenities in Rajarhat. Currently, BMC earns around Rs 4 crore property tax from Rajarhat and seeks to collect Rs 12 crore this year.
 
 Stressing on earnings by tax collection, the finance section of BMC has been asked to make sure that parking fee is collected from all parking lots in the corporation area.
 
 BMC has also started collecting tax from the civic-run markets in Salt Lake and in other parts of the corporation area in Rajarhat, Baguiati and Kestopur that are yet to be cleared. The civic body is also expecting to earn huge revenues from market complexes, that were earlier within the jurisdiction of the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. 
 
 Some of the civic maintenance work that BMC will take up are road repair, water supply, developing street lights, solid waste management and canal renovation. Importance has been given on having year-round vector borne disease control drive, overall improvement of sewerage and drainage system, shifting to LED street lights, developing the parks under Amrut scheme, introducing smart governance and overall development of Salt Lake as a green city.
 
 Also, the civic authorities have stressed on increasing the salaries of workers.
 
