PATNA: The new uniform system for assessment, examination and report card, which the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) has introduced by scrapping its continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) scheme, has evoked mixed reaction from teachers of city schools, parents and students.

 The new pattern will be implemented at all CBSE affiliated schools from the 2017-18 academic session for classes VI to IX. The circular issued by the board on March 21 states, “To increase the confidence of students to start preparing for Class X board examination, when they join the upper primary stage in Class VI, the CBSE has decided to implement a uniform system of assessment, examination pattern and issue of report cards for classes VI to VIII also on the same pattern.”
 
 The new system will also ease migration from one school to another. There are 18,688 CBSE-affiliated schools in India out of which 662 are in Bihar.
 
 Abha Choudhary, a senior teacher and CCE coordinator at Notre Dame Academy welcomed the move. “Teachers and students both face problem in understanding the CCE pattern. Students at times lose competitive spirit. With the implementation of uniform system of assessment, students will once again concentrate on academics,” she said. “The only drawback of the new system is that school can’t detain students till Class VIII. This means the weak students will fail in Class IX in large number,” Choudhary added.
 
 V S Ojha, principal of DAV Public School, BSEB, said, “There will be a calibrated increase in load in the annual exams as per a pre-decided scheme. In the yearly exam in Class VI, the significant topics of first term exam will have a 10% weightage in the final exam. The first term weightages in the yearly exam will go up to 20% in Class VII and 30% in Class VIII. The move is welcome as students will work hard to get good marks in yearly exam.”
 
 Principal of Open Minds A Birla School, Kankerbagh, Madhukar Jha said, “The grading system was unfair to those who have fared well throughout the year. This led to disappointment and eventually resulted in top-graders putting less effort. Most of the parents did not understand the concept of CCE pattern and they were happy when their kids got 10 CGPA in yearly exam. They never cared to know how much their kid actually scored. With the implementation of uniform system of assessment, the students will be keen towards their studies.”
 
 For Adarsh, a Class VIII student of St Karen’s High School, the marking system in report card brought joy to him. But he is disappointed with the new exam scheme. “This year, I’ll be promoted to Class IX and I have to study the whole syllabus for yearly exam. It is a burden for all students who would be promoted to Class IX this year,” he said.
 
 Vaishnavi Roy, another Class VIII student of Loyola High School, said, “We used to study half of the portion of syllabus for first term and the other half for the yearly exam. Thus, the change in exam pattern is a setback for us.”
 
 Most of the parents welcomed the move as it will help them understand the report card of their wards. Anushka Singh, whose two kids study at St Michael’s High School, said she never understood the grading system. “I am happy that the report card will now show the scores of my kids in different subjects,” she added. 
 
 
