HYDERABAD: Indian Muslims, who fast during the Islamic holy month of  , have now got their own set of medical guidelines for safe fasting, particularly if one is a diabetic.The   (API) has for the first time come out with a consensus guidelines on the health measures one should take while fasting, to avoid severe fluctuations in the blood sugar levels. The guidelines are primarily meant for diabetics and cover all types of religious fasts, including the intermittent model of fasting observed during Ramzan.

 Though there are exclusive guidelines on Ramzan fast at international and   level, it is for the first time Indian Muslims have got their own health tips on fasting. The API has divided fasting into three categories depending on the duration of the fast. Ramzan fast falls in the “long fast“ category . The guidelines for healthy fasting were published in a special supplement to the March 2017 issue of the  . The consensus guidelines preceded a meeting of experts from different parts of India in Delhi on August 20, 2016. The guidelines are named “Insulin dose modification during fasting in type 2 diabetes''.
 
 The six-point guidelines are: diet and exercise during fast, risk categorization for patients who fast, breaking fast, and dose modification of basal insulins, premix insulins, and prandial insulins. “Safe religious fasting in patients with type 2 diabetes is possible with vigilant planning,“ the guidelines said, adding that diabetics on fast should “keep themselves hydrated, consume foods with low glycaemic index and high fibre content and avoid sugary , caffeinated drinks and fried foods.“ The guidelines state that the key factor for insulin therapy during Ramzan is to provide adequate insulin to prevent the post meal hyperglycaemia and also prevent hypoglycaemia during the fast. “Individual risk factors should be identified and patients at high risk are recommended to avoid fasting.The key recommendation is to maintain the same evening post-fast dose of insulin and reduce the morning pre-fast dose of insulin,“ they said.
 
 According to the API publication, the strength of the guidelines consensus is that “it has been developed with due considerations to national context based on experience and common therapy practices in India while drawing on recommendations from globally acceptable guidelines and relevant clinically published evidence.“ The guidelines divide fasting into three types.Infrequent short fast, frequent short duration fast, and annual or semi-annual long duration fast that includes Navarathri, Paryushan, Ramzan, Buddhist lent, Parsi fast, and Christian lent.
 
