NAGPUR: When   called it quits one and half years ago, many felt he could have easily extended his career. At 32, it was a tough decision because a cricketer goes through the best phase at this age. However, a hand injury and indifferent form forced Paradkar, a former Vidarbha captain, to take a call on his career.

 When he hanged his boots, Paradkar wanted to give something back to the Vidarbha cricket. He had already started Level-1 coaching course two years ago. Paradkar might not have won any trophy as a player but he has won as coach in his debut season as a full time coach. Vidarbha defeated Uttar Pradesh in the final of   on Sunday to create history.
 
 It is a great start to Paradkar's journey as coach. The boys responded extremely well to different situations and are on cusp of making history. It is not easy coaching kids. One needs to be technically equipped and have clear understanding of players' psyche. Many youngsters leave the sports because of pressure put up by the support staff. Paradkar, in that sense, is different. He has drawn a thin line between being a friend and a mentor.
 
 "It's a different ball game as a coach. When you play, you are only responsible for your performance. However, when you coach, you need to look after various things. You need to learn the art of getting the work done. You need to handle each individual differently. I am sharing all with these kids what I have learned in these years. I am happy what these boys have achieved. It's a complete team effort," Paradkar told media at   in Indore.
 
 Dealing with the kids, who are less than half his age and experience, has taught patience to Paradakar. Sharing dressing room with international players like Hemang Badani, Shiv Sundar Das, Sairaj Bahutule and   has also helped him understand the various aspects of the game. He basically learned about the role of a mentor. Now he is using that experience.
 
 His wards are all praise for their mentor. "He has played so much of First-Class cricket. He is very approachable and calm, which helps us. He has tremendous knowledge about the game and he keeps on sharing his experiences at suitable time," legspinner Rohit Dattatraya said while talking to reporters.
 
 Ex-India legspinner  , who was at Indore as   observer, also praised Paradkar's approach. Incidentally, when Paradkar made it to the Central Zone squad for  , Hirwani was the chariman of selectors in the Central Zone. "I saw him after the match. While Vidarbha boys were celebrating, Ranjit was happy but not over excited. That's a sign of good coach, who stays away from the limelight, works hard in the background. He was naturally a good player. However, coaching is entirely a different ball game. It's a good start to his coaching career. Hope he wins many more for Vidarbha," Hirwani told TOI on Sunday.
 
 
