Lucknow: It will be after 84 years in the history of King George’s Medical University ( ) that a Muslim boy would lay his hands on the most prestigious  , at its convocation on Sunday. Son of a farmer and a native of a small village in Nirana, Muzaffarnagar, Mohammad Tabish will get a standing ovation as has been the Georgian tradition for the medal’s recipient, when he reaches the dais for the honour.

 Ever since 1916 when the first batch of students graduated from the university, the Hewett medal, instituted in the name of John Prescot Hewett, the then Lt governor, is given to the student obtaining highest marks in final professional MBBS Part II examination. 
 
 Back in 1934, Dr AN Khan had received the coveted medal, followed up by two Muslim girl students later in 1995 and 1998 respectively. No other Muslim boy had been a recipient since Dr Khan, before Tabish. Previously on KGMU’s Foundation day held on December 24, Tabish, who has become the first doctor from his village, had bagged nine other medals. 
 
 A total of 20 medals will be conferred by the KGMU at its convocation with Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale, Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court, as chief guest for the day. Apart from recognising the efforts of graduate and post graduate students, the medal list also includes one to the best department on the basis of clinical skills and assessment to be given to the obstetrics and gynaecology department. 
 
 Avinash D Gautam, securing highest aggregate in all three years of MBBS part I and II in 2016, will be receiving the Chancellor’s Medal and the University Honours medal for bagging maximum number of honours and certificates.
 
 The day will also see Prof Yuman Fong of Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre, New York, and Prof Trilok Chandra Goel, emeritus professor of surgery at KGMU being awarded the DSc Honoris Causa degrees. 
 
 Box
 
 Himanshu too bags a first
 
 It will also be a first in KGMU that a medal in the name of a sitting vice-chancellor is constituted and awarded to a student. At the convocation, Dr Himanshu Yadav will be the first student to be awarded the Prof Ravi Kant gold medal. He has been adjudged the best post-graduate student in cardiology to pass the DM (cardiology) university examination of KGMU in first attempt.
 
 
