
 
  
 
  India is a bright spot. There is no question about it. Even though there may be no direct correlation, even the stock market is reflecting that. In the long run, with all the uncertainty in the world, we still remain a bright spot. If we look at what the government has done, it has clearly sorted out a lot of issues whether it is coal, electricity or telecom. At least in Delhi, I have not heard anybody talk about any corruption or lack of transparency. You may combine this with the budget focus on infrastructure, rural, agriculture, direct benefit transfer and fiscal consolidation. I am not saying everything is great, but I am saying there is no reason for pessimism.
  
  
 
  At least the GDP numbers suggest there is hardly any impact of demonetisation. First, let's stick to comparing apples to apples. When people said there will be drastic reduction in GDP, they were talking about the same calculation that the CSO will come out with. So, admit that the impact has not been drastic. Now to start saying that its impact on parts of informal economy was not reflected... we are talking about this for 20 years. Drastic reduction did not happen. Will there be some further effect? Possible. But alarm create karne ki kya zaroorat hai (what is the need to raise an alarm)?
  
  
 
  Do you agree more money came into the system? Interest rates went down. The money that came into the system doesn't necessarily become black, so the tax base will increase. How much, I don't know. Whether it will increase by 1% or 2%, but I can write it down in blood that the tax base will increase. It gave an impetus to digital which will lead to transparency. There is no other way to handle transparency and corruption in this country other than going digital. It has brought digital at least three years forward. If government payments and receipts become digital, it is the best thing that can happen.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  There is an issue that we have slightly excess capacity. People link it to extraneous factors that has nothing to do with demonetisation. It is purely a function of demand and supply. As that capacity is being utilised and expenditure that is budgeted is actually spent and they ask the public sector to spend, private investment will follow. But that will take some time. But the fact remains, it is only because demand does not exceed supply, and private investment will come only when demand exceeds supply. If we have reached 7% GDP, there could be some hit in GDP in the first quarter, but it will come up. We have reached 7% without private investment and we will be a brighter spot once private investment picks up. GDP will be close to 8%.
  
  
 
  It is not that the iron and steel sector became stressed in the last two years. The previous government did not even recognise the issue. There are two types of issues: It’s been stressed for long and we have not had Chapter 11 bankruptcy laws. Some of these assets, their actual value and the loans require a major haircut, so this cannot be solved only by the banks.
  
  
 
  My views on this topic correspond with the new DG's (Viral Acharya) views. The point is that kicking the can down the road is not a solution and that is what the deputy governor said. Then you only add to the total debt while the sustainable debt will remain the same because that is the function of cash flow from the project. So, as long as whatever restructuring is being looked at, in a manner that will ensure that what is left of the company is sustainable, it is valid. If it is about further concessions without ensuring viability, then it is a bad idea. But otherwise if restructuring leads to viability of the unit, it’s a great idea. Is restructuring a bad concept? No. But is misusing restructuring a bad concept? Yes.
  
  
 
  The fundamental fact is that we have to recognise the size of the problem and take appropriate decision. So, whether you talk of ARC or bad bank or S4A, the point is that the basic facts have to be understood. Even with bad bank, the same problems remain. At the end of whatever you do, the fellow should have a chance to live and he should come out of ICU.
  
  
 
  At the moment, I am not in talks with Axis Bank. As far as the government is concerned, there is an established process. Obviously, as the 30% shareholder, government will have a say, including whether they want a stock swap or a cash transaction. So, I am not doing anything.
  
  
 
  As far as HDFC Bank is concerned, we are having the best time of our lives. For India, financial services demand exceeds supply. Let us start from semi-urban and rural India; there is hardly anybody on the asset side of the balance sheet. It’s an almost virtual monopoly that I have. If you call people outside banking as unorganised finance, whoever is there, it is unorganised which cannot bring scale. But I have taken my products to the nooks and corners of the country.
  
  
 
  See, what I said was that wallet is not an economically viable proposition. What is the dispute in this? You give me Rs 500, I give you Rs 200 cashback; that is not a viable business. And now, everybody else has a wallet, and there is UPI. So, all I said is that they need to come up with a viable business proposal which is profitable because that is how in a sustained period you will get your money.
  
  
 
  They have to again define what they are going to do, and till now only one has launched its operation. A payments bank is giving 7% interest on savings bank account. As per payments bank mandate, he has to put it in treasury. I am a major payments bank, my point is I am hardly charging despite what you fellows say. The banking charges in India are about the lowest in the world, I hope you are aware of it. But you people insist on beating up the banks. For most payment transfers, we are hardly charging anything.
  
  
 
  If you deposit exceptional amount of cash, it costs me. My teller has to count, then it will be put in a safe deposit. Then you come to withdraw cash again, it costs me. Pay my cost. I am not a free enterprise. I have to give return to shareholder.
  
  
 
  I am glad you asked that question. For example, we get a Rs 10,000 savings bank deposit. I have to pay 4% interest, 4% I have to keep as CRR. I earn around Rs 200 in one year. In this Rs 200, what all you want? Free   you want, no cheque book charge you want, no cash handling charge you want. If State Bank of India says that it's important to keep a minimum balance of Rs 5,000, kya bola hai bichari ne (What has Arundhati Bhattacharya said)? How much do they earn and lose? Keep on punishing banks and then you will say there are no NPA writedowns.
  
  
 
  MDR is recovered based on the cost that is incurred. If the government wants free, then it's fine. They should put up the terminals. If I have to put up the terminals and they have to get it free, you are saying I should also subside Louis Vuitton or Pantaloon or Taj Hotels? Their sales are rising, he is swiping, he is paying me. Why should I subsidise him? The small kirana shops, we should find a way to subsidise which we will find whether it is UPI or by coming up with lower charges. But zero charge is not feasible unless somebody subsidises it.
  
  
 
  Yes, but I am not leaving in a hurry. The road map that you see for the future, the management hierarchies will also change. Hierarchical management is an animal in the digital world. So, the strategies will have much shorter connotation because the world changes, so the leader will be more a first among equals and your reaction time has to be very fast. I have four more years to go, I will clear the road map even further by then. We have depth inside, outside, everywhere. One or two years before my retirement, of course, the successor will be named. But if I do it too early, I will lose my effectiveness also, don't you agree? 
