HYDERABAD: A bullet that hit his left eye killed   at Ilara Apartments in Milpitas, California, on February 10. 

 But,  , the 30-year-old alleged killer, was not just content with that. He drove Vamsi's Volkswagen over his body and then left the apartment.
 
 These details have come to light following an investigation by the Milpitas police, after they took Baronngaue into custody.
 
 "My son's killing was also a case of hate crime. If robbery was the only motive, my son gave away his car keys and wallet to the culprit. Why did he have to kill him?" questioned Sanjeeva Reddy, Vamsi's father.
 
 A grieving Sanjeeva Reddy said that his family was still unable to come to terms with the death. 
 
 "He had taken a loan of Rs 35 lakh to go to the US for his studies. A large part of it is still unpaid. Not a day passes with us being haunted by his memories," Sanjeeva Reddy, a farmer from Vangapahad village of Hasanparthi mandal in Warangal district, told TOI. 
 
 Sanjeeva Reddy's wife,  , 48, is inconsolable. The couple's 30-year-old married daughter Sunitha has also been mourning since the day her younger brother was killed.
 
 Vamsi Reddy, 27, had studied MS in computer science in   and was doing a part-time job. He was on the look-out for a proper job in the US after completing his studies in December 2016. He had gone there in 2014.
 
 The Milpitas police department came up with the sequence of events in Vamsi's gruesome murder. After stealing a woman's car from the fifth floor of the parking lot of the same apartment, Baronngaue drove down the ramp and rammed into the car of Vamsi Reddy, who was driving up the ramp. Some other cars were also damaged during the incident.
 
 "Baronngaue ordered Vamsi out of his Volkswagen at gunpoint to which he complied and exited the car with his hands-up. At this, Baronngaue fired and the bullet hit Vamsi in the left eye and killed him," a Milpitas police officer said.
 
 "After pointing his gun towards a car occupied by four others, Baronngaue got into Vamsi's car and ran over the victim's body. He then drove out of the complex," the cop added.
 
 Vamsi's body was cremated in his village at Warangal after being brought to India a week after the incident. "It is a clear case of hate crime. There is no doubt about it. Only because there was a carjacking angle involved, the killing was not described as a hate crime. When my cousin meekly submitted and gave away his car, where was the need to kill him?" questioned A Rajesh Reddy, a relative of Vamsi. The case is coming up for hearing on March 9. A charge of murder has been slapped against Baronngaue. 
 
