THANE: City police have directed   to deposit their weapons, following instructions from the   (EC) in the run-up to the   slated for February.

 A senior police officer said a couple of days ago, they had issued notices to licenced arms holders — 562 in Thane city and 104 in Ulhasnagar — to deposit their weapons. Few have been excluded from this due to security compulsions while the others have already started depositing their firearms, said a senior police officer. 
 
 Sources said that about 50% licenced arms holders are political leaders of various parties while some of them are political office bearers of different rankings. 
 
 “The weapons have to be deposited so that the holders cannot use it during the elections for influencing voters or bullying or threatening them. It is also as a preventive measure to maintain law and order and ensure free and fair elections,” said a police officer.
 
 The officer added that if anyone failed to deposit the firearms within the specified period, they shall be liable for prosecution under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Until the election results are out, carrying weapons in public places or keeping weapons in their possession is banned. The firearms will be returned to the holders after the elections are over.
 
 A high-level arms scrutiny committee has been formed at the commissionerate level, which issued notices to licenced arms holders to deposit their weapons. A receipt of deposit is given to the holder and after the elections the arms are returned to the person, said a police officer.
 
 Explaining about the exemption in a few cases, a police officer said those exempted are allowed to keep the arms due to compulsion of carrying arms for security reasons, bank security guards and armed personnel of security agencies, government employees on duty and bodyguards. But for taking benefit of these relaxations, the licence holders have to appeal before the arms scrutiny committee and later the decision is taken by the committee after scrutinizing the appeal thoroughly.
 
 The police have warned that keeping arms in possession illegally or without permission may invite stringent action. Those caught could face action under various acts of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), Indian Penal Code and Bombay Police Act, Arms Act etc.
 
 
