CHENNAI: Commuters will soon be able to board a train from Central Metro, the city’s largest underground transit hub, as a part of the station will be opened by the end of this year. Trains will run from Central metro all the way up to   and Thirumangalam. Track work for the stretch from Central to Egmore is already underway. 

 On Friday boring of last of the six tunnels converging at the station was completed. It is part of the corridor, connecting   to airport via Central Metro, which is expected to be operational by June 2018. If everything goes as planned, phase-1 of metro rail project will be completely operational by mid next year. Nearly 900 days after the giant tunnel boring machine was set to work from Washermenpet it reached its destination at Central cutting through 3.5km of rocky soil at a depth of 28m. As the machine with its seven rings applied pressure on the rocky soil, its cutter heads groundits way through to the station and broke the temporary concrete wall amid cheers of the nearly thousand workers and contractors gathered at the station. The machine had been excavating an average 10m a day. “We have to now start constructing the platform,” said V K Singh, CGM, underground and constructions.
 
 Central Metro, which will connect two corridors of phase-1, will be a changeover point for passengers where they can move from one corridor to another to get to any of the stations. “Unlike Delhi metro, where tunnels are built on the same level, we built in two decks due to space constraints,” said Singh. While the design of a three-deck metro station is one-of-its-kind, officials said the construction was froth with challenges. The mixed soil strata and multiple heritage structures along the route made tunneling difficult. Engineers could not apply more pressure and boring was slowed down to almost 3m a day. The cutter heads also had to be changed several times. “We had to change the cutter heads at least three to 15 times a week to complete tunneling,” said  , director of operations.With a tiny 2.4km tunnel left to be built under Anna Salai, the 45km stretch of phase-1 will be completed next year.
