SURAT: The speculation over the future of three-year-old girl, whose parents had last week announced their decision to take diksha (initiation into monkhood) is over. She will not be deprived of her mother's love for some time now, as it was only her father who took diksha on Saturday in Surat.
A row was raging ever since a Jain couple -Sumit Rathore, 35, and his wife  , 34 -from Neemuch in MP had announced their decision to relinquish a wealth of over Rs 100 crore and also their little daughter. Community members were worried about the future of the couple's daughter. Gujarat State Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Gujarat State Commission for Women received a complaint from concerned people which asked for reports from Surat district collector and police commissioner.
 
 "The district collector office and police took up the matter after we received the letter. I convened a meeting of Jain community leaders, legal experts and collectorate officials. The leaders agreed only Sumit will take diksha until legal formalities of adoption of the child are completed," police commissioner   said. Police had given option to the couple that only one of them can take diksha until legal formalities are over with regard to the child's adoption and her inheritance issue. "Discussions continued throughout night among Jain monks and community leaders after their meeting with police and collectorate officials. Finally, it was decided that only Sumit will take diksha until legal formalities for adoption of the child are completed. Anamika will take diksha later," said  , a Jain community leader.
 
 Sumit Rathore, who had business of manufacturing cement bags and import and export, became Sumit Muni after receiving diksha from   at an event held in the presence of hundreds of people here on Saturday. A number of people from all over the country had come to witness the diksha ceremony that lasted 30 minutes. His wife Anamika was present when he took diksha.
 
 The couple, married for four years, had decided to become monks when Anamika was pregnant, a community member said. The couple had earlier entrusted Anamika's parents, who are over 60 years of age, with the responsibility of raising their daughter.
 
