VARANASI: After biting dust for two years, the files related to the proposed   at   are out again. 

 A team of higher authorities of   (AAI) and other   is expected here within 10 days to finalise the proposal on expansion. Major issue for discussion on the proposal with district administration will be land acquisition and also the alignment of Varanasi-Lucknow four-lane highway.
 
 After going through the files on runway expansion in a meeting with the officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI) and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Saturday evening, district magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra said that over 500 acres of land would be required for the expansion of runway. 
 
 The acquisition of land would be done in two phases. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has two options. One is to change the alignment of Varanasi-Lucknow highway by diverting it towards Basani from Babatpur. The other is to construct it under the expanded runway. The director of LBS International Airport Anil Kumar Rai said that all the aspects of the proposal of runway expansion are being reviewed.
 
 According to AAI officials, the expansion of runway was proposed in Masterplan-2004 of the authority. Due to railway track on the eastern side of the runway, the AAI has the only option to expand the runway towards western side, where Varanasi-Lucknow highway NH-56 exists. The NHAI has already started the project of upgrading this NH-56 to four-lane highway. To expand the runway, the AAI sought 593.77 acres of land at Mangari, Baikunthpur, Karmi, Ghamhapur Karmi, Sagunaha and Pura Raghunathpur villages.
 
 Due to protest by the farmers, the proposal was put on backburner before 2012 assembly polls. After formation of Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government at Centre in 2014, the AAI restarted efforts to materialise the project in 2015. 
 
 During his August 17, 2015 visit to the city, the minister of civil aviation P Ashok Gajapathi Raju had made clear the approach of the Union government that apart from improving connectivity at LBS Airport by increasing facility for air travel on domestic and international routes, the government is also focusing on cargo service here. But AAI officials believe that without expansion of runway, beginning Boeing and cargo flights from this airport is impossible.
 
 Before the visit of minister, the AAI had sent a letter to state government on March 27, 2015 through the director civil aviation, UP to seek 593.77 acres of land for the expansion. 
 
 After that, the district administration sought a report from chief revenue officer and   (SLO) regarding availability of land for the expansion plan. In reply, the SLO made it clear that it will start the process to acquire land for airport expansion only after getting instructions from the state government. The files of the expansion of runway were then left to bite the dust.
 
 
