RANCHI: The two protagonists of `Cheatgate' -Virat Kohli and   -are scheduled to meet up before the toss in match referee Richie Richardson's presence and shake hands. The intent is to signal the end to a controversy that even threatened to snowball into fullblown litigation at one point, with the Indian cricket board filing charges against Smith before the International Cricket Council (ICC) stepped in to douse the fire. The BCCI withdrew its charge and issued a joint statement with Cricket Australia as truce was brokered.

 Thursday's proposed exercise is nothing but a follow-up on ICC's initiative promises to restore the spirit of the game and the series involving the top two Test teams in the world.Both Kohli and Smith are only too aware of the importance of getting on with the game and do nothing more to aggravate the relations between the two countries, but in spite of mouthing all the politically correct phrases, both have steadfastly held on to their respective positions that they had flaunted in Bengaluru.
 
 Kohli, who had alleged after the Bengaluru Test that he had noticed on at least three occasions that the Australians had looked up to their dressing room for advice on DRS without really substantiating his claim, maintained that even though he was ready to move on, he stood by what he said.
 
 “I think about what I said,“ Kohli said in reply to a query from a visiting scribe. “I don't regret anything that I've said, but at the same time it's very important not to be stupid and go on with the same thing on a daily basis. It was a mature decision on everyone's part to move on from that. We've seen instances from the past stretch on too long. It just causes disharmony and there's no outcome from it. You'll always have two sides of the coin.One side will say one thing, the other side will say another ... it's in the best interest of everyone to move on and focus on the game.“
 
 Not the one to take things lying down, Smith countered by terming Kohli's contentions as rubbish, saying, “From my point of view, I think they're completely wrong,“ Smith said. In fact, as a first step in the process of reconciliation, Smith met the match referee on Wednesday and assured him that he and his team will play the game in the right spirit in Ranchi.
 
 
