MUMBAI: Over four months after Shiv Sena’s Pravina Morajkar won the civic polls in Kurla’s  , her victory has come under the scanner. Losing candidate Shrikant Bhise from BJP has challenged her victory in the   over the non-existence of a   in her house and sought cancellation of the civic polls in ward number 169. 

 One of the qualifications for contesting the civic polls is that the candidate should have a toilet at home and use it. 
 
 While filling her nominations for the civic polls, Morajkar had submitted an   on February 3, which was certified by the assistant municipal commissioner, relating to the mandatory certification pertaining to the toilet and the regular use of the toilet. The certificate mentioned the existence of a toilet in her house in Samruddhi housing society in Nehru Nagar. After the elections, Bhise claimed, he found out that the building was demolished prior to December 2016 for redevelopment. Bhise urged the court to order an inquiry into the alleged forgery and initiate action against the officers. The petition also requests the HC to cancel the elections held in February to ward number 169.
 
 Advocates Sangharaj Rupwate and Milind Ingole, counsel for Bhise, mentioned the petition before a division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Vibha Kankanwadi on Thursday. The high court bench has asked the petitioner to make necessary corrections in the petition. 
 
 “It is clear that Morajkar was not qualified to contest the election and her nomination was wrongly and illegally accepted as valid,” Bhise alleged. “The concealment and fraudulently obtained certificate has affected and vitiated the election and on this count alone is liable to be declared as illegal and set aside.” The petition claimed that when he brought the matter to the attention of authorities, an application by Morajkar, dated January, was inserted in the records. 
 
 Bhise said despite complaining to the BMC about the alleged fraud and fabrication of records, the municipal commissioner failed to initiate any action. The petitioner contended that appropriate action, including criminal complaint and prosecution, was necessary to ensure that “election process of the democracy (remained) unpolluted, free and fair”.
 
 
