NAGPUR: In yet another setback to the upcoming   or Glocal Square, the heritage conservation committee has directed   ( ) to take action against it for defacement of Buty Baoli (stepwell), a grade-I heritage structure. The committee also asked the civic agency to submit action taken report in the case.

 TOI had, on December 10, 2015, exposed how the developer of Buty Mall, Goel Ganga Infrastructure and   Private Ltd, had constructed a temporary shop over the heritage structure. Following the TOI report, activist and founder of Vidarbha Shakti Sena Akshay Pandey lodged a complaint with the heritage conservation committee.
 
 A year later, the heritage conservation committee headed by retired IAS officer Arun Patankar wrote a letter to NIT’s executive engineer (building), West Division, on December 30. “Buty Baoli is a grade-I heritage site, listed on No. 16 in the state government’s approved heritage list. Vidarbha Shakti Sena lodged a complaint that Buty Baoli was damaged due to construction of shop over it. Issue was discussed in a meeting of the committee on November 16. President of the committee directed NIT to inspect the site and take action in case of any unauthorized construction,” the letter states.
 
 Pandey told TOI that NIT was well aware of the defacement to the heritage structure but turning a blind eye to it for over two years. “I came to know that the NIT team conducted an inspection recently. I was not intimated about the inspection. NIT should take action immediately. I will have to move court in case NIT fails to take action,” he said.
 
 Goel Ganga started developing the mall as part of Abhyankar Road Widening and Buty Mahal Street Scheme two years ago. The existing shops in proposed project area were shifted to temporary structures along Abhyankar Road. To accommodate a garment shop, Goel Ganga constructed a temporary G+1 structure over the Buty Baoli situated along Abhyankar Road. The step-well has not been filled but completely covered by the structure.
 
 Recently, Nagpur bench of   had directed NIT to revise the building plan of the mall to incorporate criss-cross roads, and also set aside notices issued to shopkeepers situated on Sitabuldi market main lane.
 
 
