AJMER: Search operations at   in Pushkar continued for the fifth day on Sunday and a big locker was found in one of the rooms of late   of the temple, known as `Gaddi Kash'. There is one more room which is yet to be opened. Till now more than Rs 28 lakh in cash has been found from the premises of the Mahant, out of this Rs 3 lakh are in coins which have been deposited in a bank.
The locker which was found from one of the rooms belonging to the late mahant is two feet high and about two feet in width. “The locker is so strong that it is almost impossible to open it. Even if a cutter is used to cut it, it will take a lot of time,“ said an official. He said that the administration wanted to know what is there in such a big locker. On Sun day a   was also recovered from the premises. The statue is said to be around 200 years old.
 
 Meanwhile, the revenue department is still counting coins which it recovered from two rooms in the last three days, “Till now we have counted Rs 3 lakh in coins,“ added the official. There are still more bags full of coins which need to be counted. “Today we counted more than Rs 50,000 in coins, we are still counting,“ a source added. There are four rooms where counting has continued since last three days. “The condition is such that we requested the students of nearby government school to help in counting these coins. The amount can go up to Rs 5 lakh,“ the source added.
 
 Three boxes were found from a room which were open on Sunday morning. These boxes contained legal papers of the temple and the land that also belongs to the temple.Two more boxes need to be opened. There is one more room which yet has to be opened.“The officials are expecting to recover more money from premises of late Mahant Sompu ri's residence,“ said a source.
 
 One of the administration teams is scanning the papers recovered in the search. They also found papers that show that the late Mahant had purchased a farm house on Nagaur Road by paying cash.“The most important aspect is that   was also included in counting the money that was offered at Brahma Temple every month.There are two locks on every donation box in the temple premises. But after recovering such large amount of money from the residence of the late Mahant, the Devasthan department's role is also under scanner,“ said one of the priests of the temple.
 
 Mahant Sompuri was killed in a road accident on January 12 this year. It was then that the district administration seized all the rooms and even the donation boxes of the Brahma Temple. After the final ritual on January 27, the state government appointed a managing committee of local administration presided by district collector and later started searching the place to find out about the belongings of the late Mahant. First the donation boxes were opened and then the search was begun at the residence.
 
