Chandigarh: “Why do not these nominated members contest the elections if they are so serious about their right to vote in the meetings of the MC?” Punjab and Haryana high court made these observations during a resumed hearing of a case, where voting rights of nominated councillors in Chandigarh MC have been challenged. Detailed arguments took place in the high court and the matter was adjourned for further hearing on Monday.

 Advocate H C Arora submitted that such a voting right to nominated councillors amounts to hijacking the mandate of the voters, as their mandate could be defeated by nine persons nominated by the UT Administrator to the MC. He argued that the nominated members of municipal corporation could not be permitted to cast their votes in the meetings of the civic body.
 
 Senior standing counsel for UT Administration Suvil Sehgal defended and argued that provisions of the legislation could not be challenged through a PIL. As a last resort, he argued that the Allahabad high court had held in a judgment that nominated members could participate in elections of the mayor, though they could not cast their vote in other meetings of the MC. However, it was strongly opposed by Arora . He submitted that all meetings of the corporation are “meetings” and no distinction could be made between meetings held for conducting election to the post of mayor, deputy mayor, etc. and the usual meetings held for purpose of transacting any other agenda.
 
 Senior advocate Anupam Gupta intervened and gave views on the technical aspects and argued that a PIL should not be rejected at the threshold simply because a challenge has been made to provisions of some legislation. Arora also cited two judgments of the Supreme Court, where the provisions of parliamentary legislations had been struck down in PILs.
 
 There are a total number of 26 elected councillors in the corporation and nine nominated councillors. But the nominated councillors through their voting rights have been playing a decisive role in the past in electing the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. The petitioners have challenged the provisions of Section 4(3)(ii) of the Punjab Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, as extended to UT Chandigarh, which entitles nominated councillors to cast their vote in the meetings of the MC. According to the petitioners, the aforesaid provisions are contrary to the provisions contained in Article 243-R of the Constitution, which mandate that nominated members of the municipalities shall not have any right to vote in the meetings of such MCs.
 
 
