BENGALURU: When people from different cultures and places come together for social justice and empowerment, humanity benefits. And a group of six youngsters is doing just that. Spicyroad –– an initiative that has its roots in the refugee camps of Germany –– has resulted in exciting hitchhiking trips across 20 countries. The group has, along the way, met inspiring women and learnt about different recipes. Once their journey winds up, the members will set up a restaurant that could employ women refugees and serve global cuisines.

 Taking time off work, Jiheui Lee aka iA decided to use her experiences as a Korean woman in a foreign land (Germany) to create something empowering. “I landed in Germany for work, but the experience I had there was far more vast. It was still difficult for me to understand how immigrants or refugees felt the way they did,” she told TOI when the group was in Bengaluru last week.
 
 “The academy where I went to learn German provided me the opportunity to meet other foreigners, especially women my age. I realized how difficult it was for women of other nationalities and cultures to find employment. They were obligated to household chores, and owing to language and cultural barriers they didn’t have many friends,” said Jiheui.
 
 Jiheui met  , another member of the project, while working at a refugee camp in Germany and thus began the journey to bring about financial independence and social acceptance among women. “At first, it seemed impossible and unrealistic to start a restaurant or run a social initiative. But as the project moved from country to country, we saw different communities and experienced many approaches to social change. We want to share our experience with more people through social media,” said Yannic, who completed his higher studies last year. 
 
 The group hitchhikes through countries, meeting women who are either refugees or socially impoverished and learning about their struggles in society. The members embarked on this journey with their own savings. Since August 2016, Spicyroad has travelled through Poland, Ukraine, Moldova, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, Russia, Georgia, Turkey, Iran, UAE and India. While the six of them have managed to stick together, many others have come and gone on the way. 
 
 Murad Bamehriz, the newest member, said his perception about hitchhiking changed when he actually got into it. “When we were in Tiruvannamalai, we came across Pavan Kumar who gave us a ride in his truck. He took us to his little home where his family lived. The warmth we received there was wonderful. That was my first hitchhiking experience and it has been the best,” he said.
 
 For this group on the go, food is the other speciality. Ahead of turning their dream restaurant into a reality, Spicyroad is preparing a cookbook with recipes from across the world. . “In another six months we will finish with our travels. After that we plan to organize a fundraizer for our restaurant. As of now, we are just connecting with different people over food,” said Lee.
 
 Sirena Martinelli, who’s been with the project from the beginning, believes food can be a great ice-breaker. “While we may not be able to connect much through language, food is what brings us closer. I was able to connect with women so well; we get to know their candid stories mostly through food talk.” 
 
 “We have had many people join us and leave, often because of visa issues or their busy work schedules. But every time someone joins us, we get fresh ideas and renewed enthusiasm to take our initiative forward,” added Yannic.
 
 Lee is amazed by the project’s progress over the months. “Initially, I didn’t even know how to run an initiative like this. There are so many places which are war-torn but hardly find any help. This project inspires me to become a better person,” she pointed out.
 
 A TREMENDOUS JOURNEY
 
 Back in London, I’ve volunteered for a few organizations. But I never felt like I was part of a bigger cause. While I was applying to universities, I stumbled upon Spicyroad. So far, it’s been a tremendous journey. Each of us is very passionate about what we do and it drives us to explore more
 
  | member of Spicyroad
 
 BEST DECISION EVER
 
 Before I joined the project, I worked at a refugee camp where I met iA (Lee) and Yannic. Soon I decided to join this journey. Quitting my job to join this cause was the best decision I made. With this experience I hope to be able to support refugees back home. 
 
 Elena Sandfort 
 
