PATIALA: The   on Monday stayed the February 20 orders of the  , Patiala, to lay off around 70 professors and assistant professors who were re-employed in accordance with the national policy of the   (UGC).

 A bench of Justice   stayed the university’s decision on a petition filed by the Punjab University Reemployed Professors Association (PURPA). The petitioner had moved the court challenging the university’s orders claiming that those had been passed in compliance with the strictures issued by the Punjab finance department which had, in September 2016, asked the university to discontinue with the services of the rehired teachers.
 
 The finance department had recently refused to release a grant of Rs 13 crore, which was the second instalment of the Rs 50-crore grant announced by the state government, last year. The withholding of the grant had pushed the university into an acute financial crisis prompting protests and blockades by the employees.
 
 In its order issued on Monday, the HC bench observed that the university syndicate, in its meeting dated on December 28, 2013, had decided to re-employee teachers for a period of five years by amending the initial term of two years of re-employment, which had been further extended to three years.
 
 The bench put on record that while the vice-chancellor decided to relieve the   appointed under re-employment policy from February 28, the office order made it clear that rehired professors would continue to discharge their duties towards research scholars, who were working under them so that their research works did not suffer.
 
 The university counsel argued that interests of the serving professors were being jeopardized if retired teachers were allowed to continue their service. The bench, however, stated that letter of appointments issued to teachers ‘clearly specifies’ that one month’s notice should have been given before terminating their services.
 
 The bench also took on record that the university itself had recognized the fact that their services were required since they were asked to discharge the duties so that the research scholars did not suffer. The court stated in view of that, the impugned order was stayed till the next date of hearing fixed for March 8.
 
 PURPA had claimed that the state government was trying to arm twist the university authorities by holding back the financial aid. They had claimed that this was “nothing less than encroachment on the autonomy of the university.”
 
