NAGPUR: Just how shamelessly the exam section of   is resorting to unfair means to meet result deadlines on paper can be seen in another Master of Science (MSc) case. 

 A day after TOI exposed the exam section’s illegal act of releasing backdated result, MSc (Electronics) first semester (CBCS) students approached the paper pointing out a similar issue. 
 
 In Thursday’s case, though the result is yet to be declared, the students were baffled to find the course listed under ‘Result’ tab on the Nagpur University’s website. They were further shocked when they entered their roll numbers to get the marklist but got only a blank screen. While the marklist was missing, the page carried a message stating ‘provisional marklist’ and ‘final credit based marksheet will be issued later’. It also states that ‘this marksheets is valid for applying for reassessment and supplementary exams and for admission to next semester’. 
 
 When TOI cross-checked using one of the roll numbers, the website threw up the same blank screen where marklist appeared with the three instructions. In the evening, the course was withdrawn from the list of online results released so far. 
 
 The aggrieved students said they were likely to meet the same fate as the MSc (Chemistry) third semester ( ) students.
 
 On May 4, TOI reported how the exam section released backdated result of MSc (Chemistry) to meet the deadline. The illegal act robbed many backlog students of the option to apply for revaluation as according to the date printed on marklist 10 days had already passed when they received it. 
 
 Similarly, MSc (Electronics) students are worried as they won’t be able to apply for revaluation in case the situation warrants them to use the facility. According to rules, students have to apply for revaluation within five days of result. Students they are likely to get a marklist with back date.
 
 Pro-Vice Chancellor  , who often boasts of introducing so-called online reforms, continues to dodge queries on such maladies afflicting students. Just like Wednesday, he didn’t answer TOI’s calls on Thursday as well.
 
 On Wednesday, director,   Neeraj Khaty had told TOI that students and colleges never keep a tab on result announcement while responding to a query on MSc (Chemistry) case. But, Khaty’s claim was laid bare on Thursday as MSc (Electronics) students stumbled upon the fact during their routine practice of checking the website. He didn’t answer TOI’s calls on Thursday.
 
 Mayur Kalkayian, director of Promarc, the private company handling the online examination system, too didn’t answer TOI’s calls. 
 
