BIJNOR: The permission for a Congress procession was duly applied for and granted. And when the march was stopped midway, there was befuddlement all round. It was then that the police pointed out to a bullock cart that was part of the procession in  . 

  Permission from the election commission had been sought for taking out a procession with motorcycles, cycles and cars, but it had no mention of a bullock cart. 
 
  The procession was allowed to proceed after the bullock cart and another vehicle were taken out of the event. Defending the police action, Bijnor station house officer Shailendra Singh said, "  had not taken permission to use vehicles and bullock carts in the procession. Police stopped only a vehicle and a bullock cart from being used in the procession as the permission had no mention of these." 
 
  Angry Congress workers initially protested but eventually they backed out. Congress workers shouted slogans against the   and protested against demonetisation. Women party workers carrying thalis (dishes) and spoons played music by beating the household items to highlight their hardships brought about by demonetisation. 
 
  Talking to TOI, Congress district president Dungar Singh said, "We had taken permission from the police and the authorities concerned for our programme. Police stopped our procession on Monday and told us that we could not use the bullock cart as it was not mentioned in the permission letter." Lashing out at the BJP-led central government, Dungar Singh said, "Everyone is suffering from  . People are unable to use their own money. The poor people, the farmers and labourers are the worst hit. People are running from pillar to post to get their money. Over 137 people have died standing in queues in front of banks or ATMs or committed suicide due to desperation. No BJP leader has shown any sympathy. It is inhuman. It's been two months since demonetisation was announced, still there is no relief for the common people. Now, the public will teach the BJP a lesson in the coming assembly elections." Meenu Goel, Congress's city president,said, 
 
