INDORE: There were no takers for 33   that were put up on auction via e-tendering, the results of which were expected to be declared on Thursday.   said 11 shops that are along highways will be shifted elsewhere. IT was understood that low over the counter sales was one of the reasons that kept contractors away.

 The excise department had invited online tenders for a one year contract for 18 country liquor and 15   (IMFL) shops across the district. The shops failed to attract any contractors in the earlier two processes including that of license renewing and lottery-system.
 
 The last day for submitting applications was Wednesday and it was decided that on Thursday, the shops would be distributed on the basis of highest bid.
 
 “As per the apex court’s directives, 11 of 33 shops will be shifted from their current address. Contractors fear a drop in the number of customers once they are relocated,” assistant commissioner, excise,   told TOI.
 
 However, contractors said the state government’s decision to impose a 15 percent hike on prices of all liquor shops for 2016-17 (around Rs 610 crore) and huge losses due to demonetisation was what kept many players out of the business.
 
 “The 15 percent hike in the license fee was not in proportion to the amount of business generated by these shops especially those shops in interior locations. Besides, many contractors have incurred huge losses due to demonetization, which is why many feared applying for next year’s licence,” said Jagdish Lakhwani, a liquor contractor (Rajwada wineshop).
 
 Meanwhile, the local authority was waiting to receive directives from the state government.
 
 “The state government will now decide to invite e-tender once again on the same price or after removing the 15 percent hike to attract the contractors,” the excise controller, Amarsingh Sisodiya said.
 
 Earlier, the department had approved applications to renew licences of 141 of 171 shops on a 15 percent hike on the current year’s tender price.
 
 Later, 3 shops were sold through the lottery system.
 
