BHOPAL: Come November, a high-tech process will minimize or almost eliminate role of electricity meter readers and weed out all chances of human error or number fudging. Power discom has made a beginning for   reading and is already working on pilot basis in Shakti Nagar, Imami Gate and Vidya Nagar sub-divisions. Once the facility is extended across the city, power consumers will get to pay bill online the moment meter reader is done with meter reading and is likely to benefit 4.2 lakh power consumers in the city.

 “There were plenty of complaints that consumers are able to pay bills online after 5-7days of reading. Currently, bills are generated on the spot, but it takes more time for it to get reflected in the system. Of 15 days consumers get to pay their bills, 5-7 days are lost in this for those who want to pay online,” said  , chief general manager, city circle (Bhopal) of  .
 
  “Readers go from house to house, take reading and collect data of around 1,000 consumers on their device. When they are done with consumers,they return to punch that data into the system. It takes around 4-5 days. But with the new system, it would be updated on the server in real time,” he said. 
 
 The new system will carry an added advantage of no anomalies or complaint about erroneous meter reading or other malpractices, he said.
 
 “Under the new system, meter readers will not be able to punch reading manually. They would insert data sharing device into meters and the information would automatically get collected and updated on server in real time. If readers deliberately want to manipulate it would not be possible. In areas, where are meters are not technically-compliant the device will do photometric reading of the image where consumption is shown. In that case also, meter readers will have no say in keying in of numbers thus help reducing meter reading-related disputes,” Sinha said. 
 
 Apart from it, we will get real time data about change in power consumption patterns. Like if there is a sudden change in electricity consumption and consumer is not satisfied with it, the officer will not have to go through number of steps it involves before the course correction.
 
