MUMBAI: Are India deliberately starving the Aussies of quality spin before they launch into the four-match Test series against the hosts? Going by the rather mysterious developments on Day One of India A's' warm-up game against Australia at the Brabourne Stadium at the Cricket Club of India (CCI), one wouldn't be blamed for suspecting this.

 Struck by a rather curious, sudden hamstring injury, offspinner Krishanappa Gowtham didn't bowl a single over. Gowtham's absence from the attack deprived the Aussies of some useful preparation against offspinner R Ashwin, and the visitors then had to instead make do with the mediocre part-time stuff of Akhil Herwadkar, Shreyas Iyer and Priyank Panchal, who bowled 22 overs between themselves.
 
 The selectors had earlier pulled out chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav, who was originally named for this game, from the squad here, perhaps realising that the Uttar Pradesh youngster could be India's surprise weapon at some stage in the series.
 
 A similar tactic, which saw India not play any spinner against the touring England side in the warm-up games, had backfired badly back in 2012, as MS Dhoni & Co went on to lose the Test series 1-2.
 
 Meanwhile, on a day which saw their T20 team go down to Sri Lanka by five wickets back at the MCG, the Australian fans had something to rejoice as their Test team made a strong, impressive start with the bat to their India tour.
 
 Skipper Steven Smith (107; 161b, 12x4, 1x6) and   (104; 173b, 11x4, 1x6) slammed hundreds as Australia finished at 327 for five against India A. However, considering the real challenge that awaits them in the Test series, the tourists would certainly have hoped for better practice against spin.
 
 The Aussies would still be pleased with the ease with which they tackled left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, using their feet to minimise his effect. The 27-yearold went for 90 runs in 23 overs, though the Jharkhand bowler is completely different from Ravindra Jadeja, who poses as big a threat to the Aussies as Ashwin. Both Smith, who celebrated his 100th first-class appearance with a ton, and Marsh retired to the pavilion after spending good time out in the middle to allow Peter Handscomb (45; 70b, 3x4), Mitchell Marsh and Matthew Wade to have a hit too. 
 
 However, the mediocrity of the India A attack may just leave the Aussie batsmen a bit undercooked against the turning and bouncing ball, which will keep confronting them during their month-and-a-half tour.
 
 While skipper Hardik Pandya redeemed himself with a far better spell with the second new ball, the only India A bowler to gain some thing on the day was Delhi pacer  , who would be proud to have bounced out Australia's swashbuckling opener  .
 
 The tall seamer finished with two for 27, after consuming both the Aussie openers - Warner (25) and Matt Renshaw (11) - in his opening six-over burst, which saw him concede 13 runs. After scalping Warner, who top-edged a pull shot, Saini made Renshaw poke at an away-going ball, as wicketkeeper Ishan Kishan pouched the easy offerings on both occasions.
 
 “It's a special feeling that I got Warner out with a bouncer. I saw him pulling a short ball from Ashok bhaiya (Dinda), and thought that if I try the same ploy, he'll play the same shot and with my high-arm action, I could get the ball to bounce more. That's exactly what happened when I bowled the bouncer and he got out,” Saini said later.
 
 Hampered by cramps, the 24-year-old limped off the field while he was into his first over after lunch, and returned later in the day to bowl two more overs.
 
