Mangaluru: M K Krishna, state convener, eye donation subcommittee of Indian Red Cross Society, Karnataka, said the country has approximately 12 million suffering from  . 

 He was delivering a talk on ‘Eye Donation and Eye Banking’ at an eye donation awareness programme organized by the Youth Red Cross Wing of Father Muller College of Nursing on Friday. The objective of programme is also to bridge the gap between the demand and supply of cornea. 
 
 K Krishna, who is also chairman of Eye Bank Association of India, South Zone, conducted the awareness programme, which is helpful to educate, eliminate and eradicate avoidable and preventable blindness particularly the corneal blindness. 
 
 Talking about the present status of visual impairment and epistemological disorders countrywide, Krishna said while there are approximately 12 million corneal blinds in the country, many others have visual impairment due to corneal diseases. “Besides, about 20,000 new cases of ophthalmologist disorders are reported every year. Majority of persons suffering visual impairment or disorders are young and their sight could be restored only through the corneal transplantation,” he said.
 
 He further added that at present in India around 45,000 to 50,000 corneas are available with the sincere efforts of the nationalised eye banks of both government and non-government sector while the requirement of cornea today is 12 million. And to achieve this target, intensive education and motivation among the general public for eye donation is required, he said.
 
 "The factor behind the loss of vision in young persons is vitamin A deficiency, malnutrition, injuries and infections, congenital and other factors. Therefore, there is a definite need to create an awareness among the general public about the preventive aspects of cornea blindness and to come forward to pledge for eye donation after death," Krishna said.
 
 People interested to join the cause of eye donation or those in need of eye treatment or cornea replacement can contact him on 9449842902.
 
 
