GALLE: On a sunny but crisp January afternoon at the Brabourne Stadium,   was sipping on his tea after returning wicketless (0-61 & 0-23) for Rest of India against Gujarat in the Irani Cup tie. He was a picture of dejection as he was heard mumbling, "Shayad hi apna chance kabhi aye" (I may not get a chance to play for India). Soon though, a teammate consoled him saying that he was too young to feel so disheartened.

 Fortunes turn around fast in sport.
 
 Almost six months later, the Chinaman from Kanpur, who followed up on an impressive Test debut against Australia in Dharamsala with a timely 4-14 in the practice game against Sri Lanka Board President's XI, looks set to play as the third spinner for India on what is likely to be a turning track laid out by the hosts in the first Test at the Galle International Stadium from July 26.
 
 Thanks to Yadav's arrival on the scene, India, in what would be a first instance since the heady days of the spin quartet in the 60s and the 70s, now look set to roll out three spinners for an overseas Test. Unless Galle turns into WACA or Gabba overnight.
 
 While the spin duo of Ravichandran   and   have assured themselves of a place in the side after scalping around 150 wickets in what was a highly fruitful home season for them, it's Yadav's emergence at the fag end of that run which has a made a big case for this trio to be unleashed on the Lankans at Galle.
 
 Kuldeep was handed a debut in the series decider against Australia at Dharamshala after an impressive domestic season for Uttar Pradesh and he made an immediate impact when he took 4-68 to help restrict Australia to 300 in the first innings. The way he outfoxed batsmen like  ,   and Peter Handscomb with his bag of tricks on a good Day 1 wicket was mighty impressive. The fact that the selectors erred by excluding him for the ICC Champions Trophy in England was evident when Sri Lanka and Pakistan made merry in the middle overs as India seemed to lack variety.
 
 The 22-year-old, however, showed that he's class act in the making when he bamboozled the West Indies batsmen during India's tour to the Caribbean recently-a series which saw him make his limited overs debut for India.
 
 After his three-wicket haul ensured a 105-run win for India in the second ODI against West Indies at Port of Spain, skipper   complimented Yadav by saying that the bowler was even more lethal on dry wickets. "When the batsmen try to attack, he can slow his pace down, and just beat them halfway into the pitch. So he's quite amazing with what he does with the ball. I've faced him in the   as well. He's not easy to get away - especially when the wicket is dry like it was today. He becomes even more lethal," Kohli had said.
 
 Not long after he landed in Sri Lanka for a three-Test series, the Kanpur lad has immediately made a case to extend his one-Test old career. In fact, should he keep taking wickets, Yadav may actually seriously challenge both Ashwin and Jadeja for a place in the XI-especially on tours outside Asia where both have been found wanting when it comes to picking wickets.
 
 
