Chandigarh: Overspeeding turned out to be the biggest killer in the city in 2016, snuffing out 142 lives as compared to 26 in murders and nine in other road accidents.

 Data released by the ministry of road transport and highways has stated that 380 accidents took place in the city due to overspeeding out of 428 last year. While the total number of fatal accidents were 151, overspeeding alone accounted for 93% of the deaths. Five people were killed due to driving on the wrong side, while jumping of red light at traffic signals claimed the life of one person and injured nine others. Three persons were killed due to other reasons. Surprisingly, drunken driving caused just nine accidents that injured two people even though a high number of challans have been issued for the menace.
 
 According to experts, maximum accidents were reported during late-night hours. “This is mainly because police are not on the roads to check motorists,” they added. Sources said the UT traffic police do not have night vision speed radar cameras and can only issue challans for overspeeding during daytime.
 
 Harman Sidhu, a road safety activist, said implementation of the traffic rules during night hours is the biggest challenge before the police. During late nights, hardly any person stops at red lights or drives within the speed limits. Dedicated lanes for light and heavy vehicles on the road can also save precious lives on the roads, said the president of NGO ArriveSafe. “Enforcement of traffic rules is the duty of police. Night vision speed radars can prove beneficial for police to check overspeeding during the night hours in the city,” he added. Sidhu’s PIL had resulted in the recent Supreme Court judgement banning liquor sales on all state and national highways.
 
 However, police officials said cops are deployed at some accident-prone areas till late night in the city. UT (traffic & security) SSP Shashank Anand said the traffic police will increase the number of speed radar guns and enable them to be used at night to check overspeeding.
 
 Biggest Killer With 93% Of FATALTIES
 
 Causes
 
 Killed
 
 Injured
 
 Accidents
 
 Exceeding lawful speed
 
 142
 
 297
 
 380
 
 Jumping red light
 
 1
 
 9
 
 10
 
 Driving on wrong side
 
 5
 
 16
 
 17
 
 Intake of alcohol
 
 -
 
 2
 
 9
 
 Jumping/changing lane
 
 -
 
 5
 
 5
 
 Others
 
 3
 
 2
 
 7
 
 26 | The number of people murdered in Chandigarh in 2016
 
 
