NOIDA/MEERUT: Three constables of Meerut police have been suspended after a video clip purportedly showing them enjoying food and drinks with an   prisoner in a Noida   went viral on social media. The Meerut SSP has also ordered a departmental inquiry into the issue.

 According to sources, a businessman,   (48), had been lodged in Meerut jail after his arrest in a tax evasion case in April. On Tuesday, after he complained of illness, he was sent to AIIMS in New Delhi for treatment. A team of three constables — Sukhlal, Santlal and Yogesh — accompanied Arora to Delhi.
 
 On their way back to the jail, apparently after treatment at AIIMS, they halted at a flat belonging to one of Arora’s friends in Noida Sector 37, where they allegedly had food and drinks. Later, the three constables and Arora, who had reportedly taken a train to Delhi from Meerut on their way to AIIMS, returned to the jail in a  .
 
 In the meantime, a video clip, showing the three policemen, Arora and his friend partying, started doing the rounds on WhatsApp. On getting information, a Noida police team reached the flat. However, by the time they reached the flat, they had already gone.
 
 On Wednesday, taking cognizance of the video clip, Meerut SSP Manzil Saini suspended the three constables and ordered a departmental inquiry into the incident. Also, the UP government shifted Meerut jail superintendent Sant Lal Yadav to Basti jail, but police officers claimed that the transfer had nothing to do with this case and was part of a routine transfer.
 
 Police sources said Arora, owner of Poorvai Pan Masala Pvt. Ltd based in Greater Noida, was arrested by Central Excise Commissionerate, Noida, for evading taxes to the tune of Rs 57 crore on April 17. A resident of Sector 50, Arora has been lodged in Meerut jail under judicial custody since then.
 
 Elaborating on the case, excise officials said Arora had registered his company under the Central Excise Act for manufacturing pan masala from plot No. 59 at Udyog Kendra-II, Ecotech-III, in February 2016.
 
 Thereafter, Arora reported to the excise department that the company could not start production on the premises due to a major fire. He also claimed that the entire stock of raw material was destroyed in the fire, causing him huge losses. 
 
 Later, the excise officials received information that Arora had taken plot No. 48 in the same area on rent to run the same business to evade taxes. During investigation, excise officials found a rent agreement, dated October 15, 2015, under which Arora took the plot for a period of 36 months on the name of a new company, Vrinda Tulsi Tea. 
 
 During raids, officials found six packing machines in working condition, along with raw material, packing material as well as finished goods ready for dispatch on new premises. But, the finished goods carried the old company address.
 
 
