Panaji: Over the last few months, chief minister Manohar Parrikar reiterated that his government’s focus would be on improving the quality of education in Goa’s schools. He also spoke about revamping the syllabus in collaboration with the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Acting on this, the Goa Board has begun engaging higher secondary school teachers from the Science stream to train high school teachers in concepts concerning Science and Maths.  “In complexes where higher secondary schools are attached to high schools, we have started involving the Physics, Chemistry, Biology and Mathematics teachers from the Science stream of the higher secondary school to clarify concepts for high school teachers so they are, in turn, able to better deliver the concepts to students,” Goa Board chairperson Jose Remedios Rebello, said. In 2015, the National Achievement Survey (NAS)which monitors the health of India’s education system by testing a small proportion of students from across the countryput Goa’s performance in math and science below the national average. It also indicated that performance in the subjects dipped further after students entered high school.  Rebello said the board doesn’t feel the need to update the syllabus. “The content of the NCERT books used in high schools is good enough. It is the method of teaching in Science and Maths that needs to improve,” he said. “In the coming days, we will hold training sessions for all Science and Maths teachers. It appears that they are only teaching enough for students to clear the exam. They are not making concepts clear. Even with the initiatives we implement, it will take two to three years to show results,” Rebello pointed out. Based on the Union human resource development ministry’s recommendation, Goa has announced that it will hold a test for school students on the lines of those organised for NAS. Besides, a method is being devised to hold teachers responsible if students’ performance is found to be below par. 