ROHTAK: For the 300 people working at  ,   holding massive shows of strength to mark ' ' across cities in the state on Sunday came as a dark reminder of the violence that had ravaged the  , and the mall with it, on February 19 and 20 last year. 

 The community had organized the event on Sunday in memory of those killed in the violent agitation last year. Exactly a year ago, in 2016, two floors of the shopping mall on Sonipat Road here were gutted as mobs of youngsters, allegedly belonging to the Jat community, looted and torched high-end retail outlets located inside it. Such was the damage that shops had to stay shut for nearly seven months, and the 300 men and women employed there remained out of work and without pay during that period.
 
 But the loss, if not worse, was the same for people who owned the shops. A Rohtak-based trader, Jatin Arora, says the "mindless violence" on that fateful day had been etched in his memory like a nightmare. "I could not sleep properly for days," says Jatin, who too owned shop in the mall.
 
 According to Jatin, his "uncle from Panipat", who was his partner at that time, was so affected by the violence that he left the business after incident. "We had not insured the shop and suffered huge losses," Arora, who has now reopened the outlet with a new partner, says.
 
 Though Rohtak's HUDA Colony resident Mukesh Kumar now works at the showroom of a high-end clothing company in the mall, the days after violence had erupted in Rohtak were the worst. "All 300 employees had to sit at home. The company I was working for had left Haryana altogether. For that period, I had no other option but to go back to my village and work on my family's farms," he says. 
 
 The manager of the mall, Parveen Nandal, had a feeling of deja vu a day before Balidan Diwas. "Everyone came to me and expressed concerns over the agitation taking a turn for the worse this year too," he says. "It certainly was a tense moment for all of us. Though the mall was open, business fell by 50%. If such a rampage takes place again, our jobs and the city's commerce will be in trouble."
 
 The managing director of Skytech Mall, Mayank Chawla, says they had been burdened with loans after the violence. "It was double trouble for us: we lost business and had to reconstruct the mall. Though we had claimed 3 crore as compensation for the losses we suffered, we got only Rs 10 lakh in return. Insurers, too, made us run from pillar to post."
 
 
