Madurai: M Gunasekaran, former Manamadurai MLA and AIADMK’s Manamadurai union secretary, on Monday announced that he would shift allegiance to Deepa Peravai, launched in support of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece. He is not ready to work under the present AIADMK leadership, Gunasekaran, a staunch supporter of the late CM, told reporters here.

 The 54-year-old leader said that as a loyal AIADMK man since 1987, he is not ready to quit the party, but is choosing the better leadership. “Deepa may be the niece of the late chief minister, but she is far better than the present leadership,” he said.
 
 Many more members from the Sivaganga wing of AIADMK would switch over to Deepa‘s party when it is launched on February 24, Gunasekaran claimed. “We are still the cadres of AIADMK and will soon take charge of the late CM’s Poes Garden residence, and also the party office, which is now under their control,” he said.
 
 A a two-time MLA from Manamadurai, from 2006 to 2016, Gunasekaran said that he had held many important posts right from the time of late chief minister MGR. “There are over one lakh AIADMK cadre in Sivaganga district. Of them, 37,000 support me and have expressed solidarity with Deepa. We feel that Deepa has some qualities of our late leader and is also as competent as her.”
 
 The new leadership has openly announced that they would encourage family politics, which is not acceptable, Gunasekaran said. “Moreover, under the new leadership, there would be 30 power centres, which will cause problems for real cadres like me. When the late CM was undergoing treatment, signatures of general body members were obtained, without informing them that VK Sasikala would be the next general secretary,” he said adding that only a particular section of cadres in the Sivaganga wing are bagging party posts.
 
 Many senior AIADMK leaders like Pandi Durai, Alphonse, Keelapasalai, Arjunan and Pilloor Ramasamy have also extended their support to Deepa Peravai in Sivaganga.
 
 
