Shimla: The tourist town of Shimla has almost become an open dump yard as the society responsible to collect garbage has gone on strike for the past four days.

 Moreover, the Shimla Environment Heritage and Beautification (SEHB) Society has threatened to continue its protest if the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) doesn’t give its employees 10% hike in their monthly wages.
 
 As door-to-door garbage collectors have not collected trash from about 40,000 buildings of Shimla in the past 4 days, city residents have been forced to dump waste at nearby dump yards and nullahs, which are overflowing too.
 
 Monkeys and stray animals are adding to the woes.
 
 “Trash lying on roadsides poses a big in a season of swine flu. Shimla is stinking. SEHB Society workers and Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) should come out with a solution as their clash is costing Shimla residents dear,” Krishna Nagar resident Gaurav Sharma said.
 
 A SEHB worker said they had raised the demand of 10% hike in their wages with the MC, which had even agreed to the demand in 2015, but the authorities have not kept their word. “Only weaker section of the society doesn’t get any hike in salary while the bureaucrats and politicians get hike every year. We are working with SMC for the past many years, but our basic demands have been neglected,” SEHB worker said.
 
 Shimla deputy mayor Rakesh Kumar Sharma said they have acted on the demands of SEHB society. “The strike would have been called off on Monday itself as one of the major demands of providing workers gloves, raincoats, boots and bags would have been fulfilled, but the items worth around Rs 6 lakhs were of poor quality and had to be returned. As we had to place a new order for the same, workers did not call off their strike,” he added.
 
 He said, “Currently, 27 vehicles of MC are making rounds of the city to collect garbage. The trash lying on roads will be cleaned on Wednesday morning when workers resume their work again.”
 
 He said that the demand of hike in wages is also under process and decision will be taken soon.
 
 
