DEHRADUN: If BJP was quick to accommodate as many as 14 Congress rebels or their family members, the Uttarakhand unit of Congress is not too far behind. The two BJP rebel MLAs who stood by the Congress during political turmoil, the four BJP leaders who were not given ticket by the party and two PDF MLAs have been included in the Congress list of 63 candidates which was announced on Sunday afternoon.

 Meanwhile a suspense still looms large over two seats of Tehri and Dhanaulti, from where two PDF members Dinesh Dhanai and Pritam Singh Panwar have staked claim. The two have denied to contest on Congress ticket but as Independents. There is still a situation of confusion that whether the party would not field a candidate from these two constituencies.
 
 Both Dhan Singh Bhandari, BJP MLA from Bhimtal and Bhim Lal Arya of Ghansali had gone against the party to support Congress and Harish Rawat. The two have been made Congress candidates on their seats.
 
 Four BJP members – Rajkumar, Suresh Chandra Jain, Shailendra Singh Rawat and Suneeta Bajwa – who were denied ticket by the party have been accommodated in the party list. While Rajkumar has been made the Congress nominee from Purola, Jain is the party candidate from Roorkee, Shailendra from Yamkeshwar and Bajwa from Sitarganj. 
 
 Jain won the Roorkee seat in 2002 and 2007 and lost by a margin of 801 to Congress candidate   in 2012. Batra turned rebel and BJP named him party candidate, following which Jain switched sides and decided to contest as Congress nominee. The battle at Roorkee is being regarded one of the most crucial ones in the state.
 
 Congress has stood by the commitment made to the PDF. It has fielded Mantri Prasad Naithani and Harish Chandra Durgal as party candidates from Devprayag and Lal Kuan respectively.
 
 Interestingly, woman leader   who had been expelled from the Congress for anti-party activities has been given the ticket from crucial assembly segment of Rudraprayag.
 
 Virendra Butola, who had contested from Rudraprayag seat on a Congress ticket in 2007, was surprised that Laxmi Rana had been given party ticket from the important constituency. "This has completely demoralized the party workers. I was seeking a ticket but am shocked to know that a woman who had been expelled for anti-party activities has been made party nominee," he said adding that Rana is close to rebel Harak Singh Rawat. "Everyone is shocked in Rudraprayag that sill Harak is calling the shots in Congress and has enough influence to get the ticket for the expelled leader," Butola added. 
 
 
