COIMBATORE: Railway officials on Thursday tried to evict 45   who have been living on a   in Kadalaikara Street here for the last 30 years. However, local MLA Amman K Arjunan intervened and convinced the officials to give the families another fortnight to vacate.

 Around 10am, railway officials from the   division accompanied by the railway police and rural police officers arrived in Kadalaikara Street and began evicting the 45 families who were living on railway land. “However, around 15 minutes later when the officials were still speaking to the residents, MLA Amman Arjunan came and convinced them to give the residents two more weeks,” said the   spokesperson. 
 
 “The MLA had claimed that Pongal was hardly two days away and the jallikattu issue was also raging. He requested that we allow them to celebrate the festival in their current dwellings,” he said.
 
 The Railways has fixed January 26 as the next deadline for the eviction. “MLA Amman Arjunan promised that he would relocate the residents by that date. He said the government has an alternate space for them,” said the spokesperson. “We also got an assurance that on 26 again, there should be no more trouble or interventions by state government officials,” he said.
 
 Railway officials had first issued a notice to 45 families three years ago informing them that they were encroaching on railways land and had to leave. But the residents had sought more time and approached the district administration for alternate housing.
 
 Three years later, when the residents remained on the road, the Railways issued them a fresh notice dated December 2, but distributed in the third week of December to the residents. This notice gave them 15 days to leave or get evicted. They said that besides wanting to reclaim their encroached land, it was a safety hazard for residents to live so close to the tracks. 
 
 “According to the railways rules, there should not be any residences within 20 metre on both sides of the track, but these residents are literally living on the track, which is dangerous in the case of any accident,” said the spokesperson.
 
 On December 29, the residents petitioned the district administration to give alternate accommodation before the Railways evicted them or convince the Railways to allow them to remain on the land.
 
 
