Even as the debate about women’s safety is raging in the wake of the actress assault case, Malayalis were in for another shock when Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson M C Josephine revealed that she received threatening letters and even packets containing human excreta!
The chairperson talks about the disturbing attempt at intimidation, the rising awareness of the modern Kerala woman and the various challenges before the commission in these times.
 
 
 
 
 There is a strong urge to suppress women now and the society is trying hard to control their freedom as the women in Kerala have become very much aware of their rights. I am not pointing a finger at anyone or saying that these are done by someone’s supporters but attacking me is equivalent to attacking the women in Kerala, as I represent them. It all started after the actress’ assault and we have been seeing the patriarchal reactions brewing in various forms. Despite being a member of the legislative assembly, P C George has been passing derogatory comments about the assaulted actress and we felt it is not just about one individual but he is a representative of the thought that is prevailing subtly and obviously in our society. The actress is not just an artiste but also a woman in Kerala. We decided there is a need to address it and so Women’s Commission took a suo motu case against him. Following this, I have been receiving a lot of veiled threats in the form of letters. Some have also been spreading rumours that questioned my morality. What is worse, I received two packets of human excreta by post. Though the senders of the letters aren’t identified yet, they have specific tones that support P C George and actor Dileep and abuse the actress and me.
 
 
 
 
 My response to these tactics is that neither threats nor such cheap deeds can stop the Women’s Commission from doing its duty. It is a commission that works within the framework of the law.
 I feel that such perverted actions are as heinous as harassing a woman sexually. The person is so mentally rotten that he or she doesn’t hesitate to collect, pack and post human waste. I am a 68-year-old woman and if someone can do it to the Women’s Commission chairperson, what would be the fate of an ordinary woman in Kerala?
 
  
 
 
 Women have become more aware unlike before. They have become very sensitive and have started to react even to the seemingly innocent misogynist jokes. As the chief of the Women’s Commission, I assert that no woman in Kerala needs to tolerate even a perverted gaze, gesture or action. No man has the right to do anything of that sort and if they do so, it is a punishable offence. While reacting, they are less bothered about the consequences.
 However, as I said there is a trend in Kerala to suppress opposing views by issuing threats.
 
 Your message to women?
 
 Defend yourselves. At least push. Girls should develop the courage to protest when there is any kind of threat. They should tell themselves to ‘defend and resist’ and develop the power to do so. The training should begin from homes and schools. I am sure in the next five years, the insecurity that echoes in the minds of women will vanish. Women should unite, speak up and protest through whichever platform they get.
 There is nothing to worry as the government is with them, we saw it when Kerala government formed a separate department for the welfare of women and children, this Onam. Even there are many women associations who strongly work for upholding women, beyond ideologies.
 
 
 
 
 A lot of them are aware about women’s rights and some are genuinely worried about women and their safety. This is a very progressive development. Unfortunately, majority of them still have that feudal mindset and are trying hard to dominate women. They continue to call them, edi, penne, etc and indulge in character assassination.
 
 All the same, I am optimistic about the society. While I was going through a tough time after taking up the case against P C George, many have come forward with their support. Malayalis across the world have reached out to me through social media and it has been a revelation. Our society is transforming very positively. Women will soon have their space.
 
 
 
 
 Even women in our society have been sharing the patriarchal mindset and the change is slow in coming. So, sometimes, it is impossible to bring together women as there is confusion and mixed opinions. They themselves are in the process of figuring out things. To instil progressive thoughts, we have started spreading messages across the State, especially in the form of small captions. Transport buses, FM channels and cinema halls are already carrying our messages and next will be railway stations. Not just women, the entire society should know that if women are attacked, there will be punishment. We are focusing more on the remote areas of Kerala as the rural women are subjected to a lot of atrocities. We are also working in the campuses. Let’s see how much the Women’s Commission can do, as we are a quasi-judicial organisation and can only recommend punishments.
 
 
 
 Women in our society have been brought up in such a way that they are more scared about their own bodies than anyone else. The consciousness about their body and the alertness to escape from any kind of ‘bad touch’ are so much so that they have been trained to confine themselves within walls. In the event of a sexual assault, they go through immense self-torture. They live out their lives in constant trauma, struggling with it but it keeps haunting them till death. They are constantly addressed as ira and looked down upon by the society. I ask them to write, talk and speak up about what they are going through. Let the world know the struggles they go through, within themselves and otherwise. I am now empowering the survivor of the Sooryanelli case to write a book. They should remember that the one who assaulted them is living in this world happily and free of guilt. Society soon forgets their criminal mind. The same should apply with the victim as well. 
 
