JAIPUR: The assembly witnessed uproar over the corruption in the   (PHED) during the   on Tuesday.

 The Opposition MLAs, while raising the issues, levelled charges against to which those in the treasury benches reacted strongly. Former PHED minister Kiran Maheshwari challenged the Opposition to prove the charges while parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore demanded the statements, which were a personal attack, be expunged. They were later ordered to be expunged by the Speaker Kailash Meghwal. 
 
 The debate occurred when questions over the supply of drinking water in Sawai Madhopur through the Chambal-Mabdarayal project. The question was raised by   MLA Maan Singh on behalf of Diya Kumari, who was not present in the house. PHED minister Surendra Goyal informed the house that the government it was a part of the larger Chambal-Sawai Madhopur- Nadauti water supply project (SPML), the first phase of which was approved in 2004. 
 
 “The project was amended and funds of Rs 567 crore were sanctioned again in 2013 and the work on both the packages of the project is presently under process. The work of Chambal-Sawaimadhopur-Nadauti drinking water project will be completed by next year,’’ he said. 
 
 He said the delay in environment clearance for the project further delayed the project and assured the House that it will be completed by March 2018. The minister was cornered by the opposition members and ruling BJP MLAs over the delay in water supply related projects and corruption in the department. 
 
 Prior to that,   MLA Sukhram Bishnoi had demanded details on distribution of crop loans post demonetization on November 8, 2016. While co-operative minister Ajay Singh informed the house that the recovery of crop loans allotted to farmers during last year’s Kharif season was lowest at 14.5%, he failed to provide the post-demonetisation figures. Bishnoi alleged that the distribution of crop loans was quite low after the decision of demonetisation, which affected the farmers. 
 
 The minister said cooperative loans worth Rs 1,992 crore for Rabi crops have been distributed to the farmers from September 1, 2016 to February 24 this year.
 
 
