GURGAON: The   are going to receive a shot in the arm soon with about 350 new recruits joining the force. However, the increased manpower is unlikely to provide much relief to snarl-hit commuters in the district, which is plagued by poor road planning and invaded by an ever-rising number of vehicles.

 Perennially short-staffed, the department is currently managing the district roads with around 350 traffic policemen, who are often forced to work overtime to streamline vehicular movement.
 
 If sources are to be believed, another 350 cops will join the Gurgaon police’s traffic wing in the first week of February, doubling the manpower.
 
 These 350 additional cops are among the 750 new recruits who are currently undergoing training at Haryana Police Academy in Karnal. Their training is likely to get over by the end of this month, and they are expected to join their duties in the first week of February.
 
 While 350 of them will join the Gurgaon traffic department, 250 cops will be deployed in Faridabad and the remaining 100 will be sent to Panchkula. 
 
 “The additional staff will provide a much-needed relief to commuters. Most of these additional cops will be deployed at busy Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower and Rajiv Chowk, where roads passing under the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway are being constructed. We need the additional manpower to manage traffic at those bottlenecks and diversions,” said Sibash Kabiraj, joint commissioner of police, Gurgaon.
 
 Kabiraj added the additional cops would improve the traffic situation in the district to an extent.
 
 However, another senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said considering the large number of vehicles in Gurgaon, even doubling the manpower would not make much of a difference. “Out of the 700 cops, around 100 would be off roads every day due to desk jobs, VIP duties, trainings and weekly offs,” he explained. 
 
 Gurgaon, on the other hand, has over five lakh vehicles, including both private and commercial. Besides, it receives around three lakh floating vehicles daily. “A rough estimate suggests that over 5,000 new vehicles are hitting the city roads every month,” he added.
 
 Therefore, each of the remaining 600 cops on roads will have to manage approximately 1,300 vehicles on a daily basis.
 
 “There is a huge pressure on the traffic personnel in Gurgaon. On an average, there are only two to three cops to man an important junction. And when there are  , these cops need to tackle hundreds of vehicles to remove  . It requires a lot of acuity and quick decision-making, which is very stressful,” conceded JCP Kabiraj.
 
 Experts said the traffic situation would have been far better if the infrastructure were better in Gurgaon. Potholed roads and ill-planned routes are the major reasons behind snarls. Like, services lanes of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway are ill-planned and are always choked. The Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road is being repaired for the past six months. And the work is unlikely to be competed any time soon. 
 
 
