CHANDIGARH: With no respite from  , gun-fights and bankloots, Punjab chief minister Captain   on Friday sought recruitment of 2,000 cops every year and also directed 4,000 existing   across ranks must be filled up immediately.

 He issued these directions at a meeting chaired by   chief DGP Suresh Arora and two ADGP-rank cops- ADGP (modernisation and provisioning) V K Bhawra and ADGP(administration) Iqbal Preet Sahota to the meeting as well. Amarinder expressed a serious concern over the law and order situation at the meeting.
 
 "Policing is an essential service needed to maintain peace and harmony in the state and could not be compromised with, at any cost, and government is committed to reform the beleaguered police force" said Amarinder.
 
 Two   gangsters are still at large including deadly murder-accused Vicky Gonder, who is threatening cops on Facebook. Besides, two bank loots and violent clashes have taken place in the last two weeks with no leads into either the January 30 Maur terror attack or assasinations of Hindu leaders, with acquittals of various terrorists including Harminder Mintoo and Ratandeep in big cases revealing shoddy probe by the police.
 
 A government statement said that he "warned that his government would brook no delay in the matter of filling up police vacancies." The statement also stated that he had already sought diversion of cops from VVIP duty.
 
 Last month, Amarinder had pulled up Arora for having given extravagant security detail to the former Punjab chief minister Parkash Badal and his son and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.
 
 Police meetings under Amarinder are a frequent affair. Last week, he had met Arora separately after the twin bank loots, following which the police chief had convened a meeting of SSPs, DIGs, IGs at Phillaur. The meeting also reviewed the progress on territorial restructuring of the police stations in the wake of the abolition of the halqa in-charge system, which the state cabinet had earlier approved.
 
 He directed the officials to expedite the process of restructuring the police stations to delink them from the assembly constituencies and unshackle the force from the political stranglehold created by the previous SAD-BJP government. He stressed the need to free the police from any kind of political or other interference in their functioning as promised in the Congress poll manifesto.
 
