UDUPI: Navayuga Infrastructure Ltd started collecting toll from Thursday midnight at   toll plaza and   tollgate at Sasthan. After strong opposition from locals, it was suspended for a short period on Friday.

 Later, they continued collecting toll, exempting vehicles with registration numbers KA-20 for three days. Local residents, with the help of a few organizations and unions, plan to organize a huge protest on Saturday.
 
 On the other hand, the district administration sought a report on widening work on   66 along the stretch from Hejamady to Kundapur. 
 
 The deputy commissioner called a meeting on Monday on this, including National Highway officials, Navayuga Infrastructure Company and the public.
 
 The protesters demanded a systematic service road on the NH stretch. At Sasthan and various other places, work is still not complete, and service roads have not been fully constructed from Padubidri to Hejmady. 
 
 Until the demand of a service road is not fulfilled, locals don’t want a toll to be collected for vehicles in a 20-km radius from the toll gate. All local leaders have expressed their support to the residents here. 
 
 Udupi tahsildar Mahesh Chandra, after visiting the spot at Hejamady said, “Navayuga company claimed 80% completion of work from Surathkal to Kundapur, so the district administration allowed them to collect the toll. However, we later instructed them not to take toll charges from local vehicles till Monday.”
 
 Pratap Shetty, president of Udupi National Highway Jagriti Samiti Forum said, “We had a discussion with officials of Navayuga on Thursday. We are stern on our stand; officials suggested allowing vehicles within 5km radius of the tollgate to operate with a pass of Rs 150, which is not acceptable. We will not pay any amount until the facility is given to us. The Samiti plans to organize a huge protest on Saturday.”
 
 Additional SP Vishnuvardhan said, “Over 130 police personnel were deployed in the area and the DC ordered protection to Navayuga staff. Police were ready to tackle any law and order situation. The protesters are not ready to compromise; as a result, 30 members were arrested from the venue of protest temporarily. After this,   is going on and vehicles with registration numbers KA-20 have been exempted for three days.”
 
 
