MUMBAI: Stating that a civilised society should not tolerate the barbaric practice of “honour killings”, the Bombay   rejected the bail application of a youth, who along with nine others was arrested last year for the killing of a 15-year-old Dalit teenager in Nerul over an inter-caste relationship. 

 “Honour killing is a reflection of a barbaric society. The civilised society cannot and should not tolerate such brutalities where a young boy is killed only because he is in love,” said Justice  . The HC rapped the conduct of the police in the case and remarked that young Swapnil Sonavane’s life could have been saved if police had acted promptly on complaints of his parents. “It is an unfortunate incident wherein police have shown zero sensitivity. In fact, the police could have saved the life of Swapnil had they taken steps in the right direction at the appropriate time. But police officers were busy posing as Bollywood cops and referring to movies in which there were cases of elopement by young boys and girls.”
 
 According to his parents, instead of noting their complaints against the threats, police advised Swapnil to end the relationship citing the example of the Marathi movie Sairat. Swapnil was beaten to death on July 19, 2016, by the girl’s family members who did not approve of the relationship.
 
 The court emphasised the need for police to be sensitised so that they are not on the side of the wrong-doers. “It would be necessary to sensitize the police on such issues and police need to be reminded every day and in every manner that they are public servants and it is incumbent upon them to protect the society and not join hands with anti-social elements.”
 
 The court was hearing an application by Durgesh Patil, a maternal cousin of the girl, who and his other relatives was arrested for Swapnil’s killing. Durgesh’s lawyers claimed that the main accused were the girl’s father and two brothers, who had killed Swapnil. Additional public prosecutor   pointed to mobile phone records to show that Durgesh had played an active role in calling the other accused. The HC agreed. “It is apparent on the face of the record that he had actively participated in hatching the plot for assaulting and eliminating Swapnil and had succeeded in the same. He does not deserve any leniency from this court,” said the judge while dismissing the bail application.
 
 
