times news network

 Allahabad: Former MP of Samajwadi Party Atiq Ahmad has been arrested and sent to judicial custody for 14 days in Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHIATS) attack case on Saturday. He was arrested by station officer at Naini police station where he had gone to give his statement on the case.
 
 The move came a day after Allahabad High Court sought Atiq’s criminal history and directed the superintendent of police (SP) to arrest all the accused in SHIATS case. Ahmad is also an accused. 
 
 Ahmad and three others have been accused of barging into the compound of SHIATS in Naini on December 14 last year and assaulting the staff and management officials for taking action against two students, who were debarred from examination after they were caught cheating.
 
 Superintendent of police (trans-Yamuna) Ashok Kumar Rai said that Ahmad had arrived at the police station with a cavalcade of vehicles to lodge his statement in the case related to assaulting and ruckus at SHIATS on December 14. He was arrested by Naini police and later produced in the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Rekha Singh. 
 
 Atiq’s counsel argued that his client want to put his case before the high court. The court said that it would move the application to high court and pronounce 14-day judicial custody for Ahmad. The next hearing would be held on February 25. 
 
 Earlier on Friday, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice Yashwant Varma had directed the SP, Allahabad to file the progress of investigation in the case.
 
 Hearing a writ petition filed by SHIATS security officer Ram Kishan Singh, the court had made it clear that if Ahmad and other accused wanted to surrender, they could do so before the high court and no other court should consider his surrender application till next date of hearing on February 13. 
 
 Naini police have lodged a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (robbery), 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 147 (rioting) of IPC and & Criminal Law Amendment Act. Two accused identified as Shiraz and Said were arrested on December 16 while Ahmad and another accused are wanted in the case.
 
 
