PATNA: Deputy CM   would inaugurate a newly-made   parallel to the   on Saturday.

 Only one-way traffic movement would be allowed on the pontoon bridge and light vehicles would move from either side – Patna as well as Hajipur – alternately. Only private four- wheelers, two-wheelers and auto rickshaws would be allowed to move on the bridge.
 
 Patna traffic S P P K Das said vehicular movement would remain prohibited in the night hours till the lights are installed on the bridge. “There would be sufficient security and safety arrangements on the pontoon bridge, including check posts on both ends. Vehicles would be allowed to move in regulated manner on the bridge,” said Das.
 
 The pontoon bridge has been constructed by   (BRPNNL) and its length is 1.5km. The approach roads for the bridge start from   on Patna side and Gandhi Setu police station in Hajipur.
 
 “Two pontoon bridges were proposed to be constructed parallel to the Setu in order to allow smooth traffic during the rehabilitation of the old bridge. The work on second pontoon bridge has also started and it is expected to be made ready by March-end. Both pontoon bridges would, however, be dismantled during monsoon in June-July,” said a senior BRPNNL official. 
 
 Earlier on Thursday, the state government had decided to give permission to Centre to commence works for dismantling the dilapidated Setu within a week. The western flank of the bridge – Patna to Hajipur – is proposed to be demolished first. The Union road transport and highways ministry officials have informed their Bihar counterparts that six spans from Hajipur-end of the bridge would be demolished first.
 
 The existing superstructure of the Setu is proposed to be completely demolished and triangular steel girders, as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like Rajendra Setu or Koelwar rail bridge, would be erected under the rehabilitation process.
 
 The repair work would be undertaken in two phases – the upstream (Patna- Hajipur) and downstream (Hajipur- Patna side). The upstream of the bridge would be completely demolished first and vehicles from both sides would be allowed to move only on the downstream side. Upon completion of repair on upstream, the downstream (Hajipu-Patna) would be taken up for repair in similar manner.
 
 The project is targeted to be completed in 42 months with an estimated expenditure of Rs Rs 1,742.01 crore. The rehabilitated bridge would be of 14metre width and have four lanes. Other utilities on the bridge would include footpath (1.5 metre wide), railings, anti-crash barrier, utility carrier and solar-powered streetlights for illumination. 
 
