PATNA: Bihar’s ruling   (GA) is divided over the issue of next chairman of the state legislative council with the RJD opposing a second term to chairman   even though he is said to enjoy the backing of JD (U) president and CM Nitish Kumar.
 
  An old BJP warhorse, Singh was elected the council chairman in 2011 when Nitish led the JD (U)-BJP government in the state. He has since parted ways with the saffron party, and formed the GA with the RJD and the Congress to win the 2015 assembly election.
  
  Singh’s six-year tenure is to end on May 8 this year. He retained his Gaya (graduates) council seat in the just-concluded council polls, and profusely praised CM Kumar for helping him win the seat even after severing ties with the BJP.
  
  “Everyone in Bihar knows I have good terms with CM Nitish,” Singh said, thanking Nitish for not fielding candidate against him in the Gaya (graduates) constituency.
  
  The bonhomie between Singh and CM Kumar has, however, not gone down well with the RJD. “The outgoing chairman is not from the RJD. The new chairman should be from the RJD,” tersely replied RJD legisltaure party leader in the council  , in response to a journalist’s query on Thursday.
  
  When reminded about the JD (U)’s support to Singh, the former CM and wife of RJD president Lalu Prasad further said that the GA leadership (not CM Nitish alone) would decide the GA nominee for the council chairman’s post.
  
  Lalu-Rabri’s son and deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav echoed his mother’s views. “Our alliance’s nominee for the council chairman’s post will be decided by ‘all the alliance partners’,” he said.
  
  JD (U) spokesman   did not confirm the party’s support to Singh, but talked of the “high standards set in these matters” by CM Nitish. “He once opted for a Congress nominee as the council chairman when the JD (U)-BJP alliance was in power in the state. The CM never uses such high posts for pursuing his political agenda,” Neeraj said.
  
  Meanwhile, BJP MLC   said the council members would decide who would be their next chairman. “The present imcumbent has cordial relations with MLCs belonging to all parties,” he added.
