NAGPUR: CBSE’s decision to include a state education official in the principal selection panel has touched a raw nerve with schools with many now planning to drag the central board to court for “encroaching” in their territory.

 Ever since Maharashtra government refused to recognize CBSE’s school-based exam for Std X in 2011, relationship between the two have gone from bad to worse. It is no surprise that many CBSE schools have decided not to give state education officials a foothold in their territory, at least not without a fight.
 
 Maharashtra’s 200-member strong Unaided Schools Forum (USF) is already mulling legal options if the CBSE does not rollback its decision. SC Kedia, secretary of USF said, “There are legal precedents which clearly mention what comes under the purview of school management and what is under board’s control. They (CBSE) can have control over academics and to a certain extent even dictate the infrastructure needed within campus, but selection of principals is strictly off-limits.” Kedia clarified that he was talking specifically about unaided private schools, majority of whom are CBSE affiliates.
 
 TOI was the first newspaper to report earlier this month about CBSE amending its affiliation by-law to rejig the school principal selection committee. Every selection panel constituted by the management will need to have nominee of   and, more importantly, this rule change pretty much gives veto powers to the nominee in the selection process. 
 
 Delhi-based   (NISA) which represents 23 school associations across 19 states has fiercely opposed CBSE’s decision. Kulbhushan Sharma, NISA’s president said, “This is against the idea of autonomy of schools. Private unaided schools should have complete authority to lead the school in manner appropriate and should be judged on the basis of performance, not input. Govt role in recruitment and appointment of teachers / principals in govt schools has lead to politicization of education system and the same would happen to private schools too.” Their policy adviser   said, “NISA will explore possibility of litigation and if required will take appropriate action.”
 
 In Nagpur too, many schools are rallying against the unwanted expansion of principal selection panel. Arun Upadhyaya, director of   said, “Every school will take an independent decision on what they want to do and it will be because we all want to implement CBSE’s rules in letter and spirit. Selection of principals is always done in a very transparent manner and in fact in all my schools for over 25 years, never ever has a family member or relative been made principal.” In Nagpur district every CBSE school is headed by professional academicians. 
 
 A senior principal from city said, in the last one month CBSE has done a lot of harm than good. “Apart from this decision, CBSE has also made it mandatory for every school seeking affiliation to submit a no-objection certificate (NOC) from their home state along a certificate of recognition, which means new entrants to CBSE fold will be at the mercy of state education department,” she said. 
 
