AHMEDABAD:   (CRRC), a state-owned company, has legally fought its way back in a ‘Make in India’ competition. It will now be able to make 96 coaches for the city’s Rs 10,733-crore  .

 Earlier this week, the   permitted CRRC to participate in the bidding process after quashing a decision taken by the Metro-link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad ( ) in November 2016 to disqualify the Chinese company.
 
 After disqualifying the company, MEGA had decided to go ahead with tenders from three companies — consortium of Bombardier Transportation India Pvt Ltd & Bombardier Transportation GmbH, Hyundai Rotem Company, and consortium of Alstom Transport India Ltd and Alstom Transport SA.
 
 MEGA’s decision to disqualify the Chinese company was at the initial ‘filter-cum-qualification requirement bid’ stage on the basis of the merger of two state-run companies — CSR Corporation Ltd and CNR Corporation Ltd — to become CRRC. It said that the subsidiary companies have the expertise and experience and are largest and oldest suppliers of rail transport equipment. MEGA said that the Chinese firm cannot qualify with the expertise of its subsidiary companies, and there has to be a joint venture or a consortium of these companies.
 
 The matter first reached the Gujarat high court, which upheld MEGA’s argument that the bidder was expected to be capable of completing the project within deadlines. MEGA had said that delay beyond March 2018 in completion of the project would inflate the project cost by 7.5% (Rs 807 crore per year and Rs 67 crore per month). The HC refused to intervene and said that it would not use power of judicial review “to protect private interest at the cost of public interest”.
 
 The apex court, however, set aside the HC order and held that the Chinese company was qualified to bid. It junked MEGA’s decision of disqualification on the grounds that MEGA’s apprehension that CRRC’s subsidiary companies would not be available for the execution of the project, if necessity so arises, merely because it is not a party to the contract, was speculative, unfounded, far-fetched and wanting in reason and rationale. The SC has asked MEGA to speed up the tendering process for making rail coaches.
 
