HYDERABAD: In a bizarre decision, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) blocked sewerage lines of over 767 customers for not paying water dues. The move, a first for the  , angered residents who vowed to protest.

 “For the past 10 days, my premises has been stinking. I promised to pay dues of Rs 6,000, a meagre amount, but could not due to ill health. I requested them (water board authorities) to give me a few more weeks to clear the dues, but they did not listen,” P Jagannath, resident of S R Nagar told TOI.
 
 Another defaulter, K Parameshwar in Narayanaguda said his water connection was disconnected due to non-payment of water dues amounting to Rs 25,000. “Due to demonetization, I could not paid my dues. Though I requested water board officials, they disconnected the water supply connection, and since the past 15 days, there has been no water supply to my house,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, water board officials said that it had made repeated pleas to defaulters to pay pending water dues, but in vain. As of Friday, records showed that nearly Rs 800 crore dues were stuck with customers, including those falling under the category of domestic, commercial and government agencies. 
 
 Prior to blocking the sewerage lines of domestic and commercial customers, water board officials served ‘red notices’ on nearly 90,000 defaulters, who did not pay dues for the past six months. The dues for six months amount to nearly Rs 60 crore. Instructions were given to general managers of 16 operation and maintenance (O&M) divisions in the city to paste ‘red notices’ with name of the defaulter, locality and total dues on the premises, either on the compound wall, in front of the main gate or pillar of an apartment. 
 
 About 38,000 defaulters came forward and cleared nearly Rs 11 crore dues. “We started this process last November, but intensified it in December,” said HMWS&SB chief general manager-Revenue, S Anand Swaroop. After serving notices, officials waited for one week. “Even after disconnecting water connections, if a customer fails to pay up in the second attempt, our sewerage staff is visiting premises and blocking the sewerage line without prior notice. We will block individual sewerage lines, which are connected to the water board’s main sewer line, by placing gunny bags,” Swaroop said. 
 
 Till date, the Water Board has blocked 767 customers, including domestic and commercial ones, he said. The drive on serving notices will continue till March. The Water Board has plans to complete the process of collecting Rs 48 crore from defaulters by March end, added the Water Board official.
 
