LUDHIANA: The heavy rainfall for almost two hours on Thursday morning brought lots of troubles for the city residents. Heavy waterlogging and   were reported in several areas.;

 As the areas were flooded with rainwater, several people were stuck inside their cars. In some of the areas, even   were not available to help the situation.
 
 The areas which were flooded included Clock Tower, Damoria Bridge, Chander Nagar, Haibowal, Shakti Vihar, Hambran Road, Model Town, Dugri, Maya Nagar, Rani Jhansi Road, New Madhopuri, Shivpuri, Dholewal, RK Road, Janakpuri, Transport Nagar, Chandigarh Road, Field Ganj, Focal Point and many other parts of the city. Even Buddha Nullah was overflowing near Shivpuri which brought the   on toes. The officials checked the weak points of the drain to avoiding any problem.
 
 In many areas, water entered the houses and sewage water overflowed on to the roads. The residents condemned the civic officials for poor drainage arrangement, saying that every year city drowns like this but officials do not come out with a concrete solution to the problem.
 
  were seen on Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Model Town, Haibowal, Clock Tower, Chandigarh Road, Hambran Road. Manish Sharma, a resident of Haibowal, said, “I had left from my house at around 9.30am and it took me more than one hour to reach the office due to massive traffic jam and waterlogging. Had the rainfall lasted for more than two hours, the city would have drowned literally.”
 
 Another resident from Civil Lines Jaiprakash Malhotra said there was massive waterlogging on railway station road near Clock Tower and it was getting difficult to drive the vehicles.
 
 Meanwhile, superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Rajinder Singh revealed that they had visited the areas where waterlogging took place and water was drained out quickly as they had got the sewerage pipes cleaned with super suction machines. He said that staff has been deputed on duty for early drainage of the rainwater.
 
