RANCHI: Union minister for parliamentary affairs, chemicals and fertilizers,   has announced three more Central Institutes of Plastic Engineering and Technology (CIPET) in the state. While inaugurating   in Ranchi on Monday, he said that out of the three, one in   will be specifically builtfor the tribal students whereas the second one in Jamshedpur will be opened under a public private partnership mode where the state, centre and   company will join hands. Third CIPET will be opened at   to train youngsters on plastic technology, which is the need of the hour. 

 Kumar also announced to change the outlook of the fertilizer hub of Sindri. "The Centre has already released Rs 6,000 crore to revive the Sindri fertilizer factory which is estimated to produce one lakh metric tonne urea every year, while also catering to the need of state and eastern India," he said. 
 
 Praising the state government's innovative initiatives like Yojna Banao Abhiyan, construction of a series of farm ponds (dobha) and strengthening the panchayat secretariat infrastructure, Kumar said that other states should copy positive models of the state. Kumar announced the opening of 100 medicine outlets in the state under Pradhanmantri Janaushadhi Yojna. "These medicine outlets could be opened at railway stations and bus stands where generic medicine of international quality standard will be available to common people at cheap rates," he said. 
 
 Chief minister Raghubar Das announced the opening of a 169 acre plastic park in   at Deoghar earmarked for the project besides opening a pharma park near Ranchi. "At present there are over 80 units of plastic industry operating in the state and those trained at CIPET will get an opportunity to use their skills in these industries," he said.
 
 He added that the state also plans to open up more plastic based industry based on the industrial requirement. "At a time 96% of the manpower in North Korea and 86% in United Kingdom are skilled, we have only 10% trained manpower calling for the need of having technological institutions," he said clarifying that the first batch of 1500 students would be inducted for vocational and diploma courses at Ranchi's CIPET within two months. 
 
 The CM also announced to soon have a plastic policy in state to address the concerns related to plastic and its use in the industry. 
 
