BHOPAL: Bengal police has been doing all the running around and digging in the sensational   while Bhopal cops seem content to be on the sidelines. Five days after discovery of Akansha's body in a macabre tomb at Udyan's house, city police have not bothered to file an FIR or search his cars. If they had, they'd have found an air pistol in a Honda City he drove. 

 On the night of January 1, 2017, Udyan met with an accident while driving car on VIP Road. He parked the car, bearing registration number DL4C AH 3261, in a garage. The car is still there, awaiting repair. Police have not bothered to take a look inside. It has his name embossed on it and a US flag inside. The sensational murder may have shocked the nation but   is yet to take cognizance of it. Sources in police say much of the mystery is yet to be unravelled and there is no telling how many more grisly secrets Udyan may be hiding. So far, he has admitted to killing Akansha and his parents and plotting to kill Akansha's family. A police source associated with case told TOI that the Honda City is registered in the name of ' ' in Janakpuri, Delhi. If Udyan bought it, the paperwork is yet to turn up. His other car, a black Mercedes, also has outstation number plates - Mumbai's MH02 NA 6000. It is parked inside his house, but police have reportedly not searched this either.
 
 When asked if Bhopal police plans to file an FIR, Govind Pura police station's   said, "The crime was not registered with us, so we don't need to investigate it or seize his vehicles. Now, the case is in the hands of Raipur and West Bengal Police. They will investigate." South Bhopal SP   said: "The case is not registered here, so it's not required to seal his property or take custody of his vehicles. However, we are conducting an inquiry on our own to find out with who he was in contact with. If we find anything suspicious, we will register an FIR." Sources say Bhopal cops plan to check all Udyan's call records.
 
 When asked why Bhopal Police isn't investigating the case when Akansha's brother approached Govindpura police with an application, additional SP (Zone -2) Hitesh Choudhary said, "Under legal procedure, we cannot register an FIR in Bhopal although the crime was committed here. The initial complaint about the kidnapping was registered in Bengal. In such cases, only sections get added."
 
 Legal expert E A Qureshi, however, said, "If somebody complains about an offence, then police must take it and investigate the matter in accordance with law. It is mandatory for police to accept the application and start investigating the crime. which took place in their jurisdiction. Police cannot deny it."
 
