PUDUCHERRY:   hailed the Union budget presented by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on Wednesday.

 "Current budget is the result of a comprehensive proactive government. India is in safe hands. We are grateful," she said in a Twitter message.
 She said the foundation of the new budget is   of resources. She took the opportunity to congratulate Jaitley.
 
  (CII) welcomed the Union budget and said the document 'builds   among Indian industry and overseas investors.'
 
 CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee said reduction of corporate income tax rates for medium and small enterprises will cheer the large majority of companies with turnover of less than 50 crore. "The move will stimulate employment and entrepreneurship," he said.
 Banerjee is of the strong opinion that the budget, which stressed on domestic demand, higher public expenditure and formalisation of the economy, will 'activate key growth drivers for the economy within a challenging global environment.'
 He said measures for affordable housing and focus on farmers, rural economy and infrastructure will open up avenues for investment and new livelihoods.
 
 CII president Naushad Forbes said the budget has unleashed multiple instruments to revive demand and encourage investments while also prioritising the needs of vulnerable sections of society."Industry welcomes the cut in personal and corporate income tax rates. The budget focuses on measures to increase transparency including digitalisation and formalisation of the economy," said Forbes.
 
 The key measure of slashing the corporate income tax for companies with a turnover of less than 50 crores at one go from 30% to 25% covering 96% of all companies is greatly welcome, stated the CII president.
 
 However, he said CII would have liked to see lower corporate income tax for all companies, given that large companies contribute to investments and employment. "The additional surcharge on high-income tax payers detracts from the principle of honouring honest tax payers," he said.
 He congratulated the Union minister for maintaining a check on the fiscal deficit despite the overwhelming need to raise public expenditure to boost growth.
 
 The fiscal deficit of 3.5% of GDP for budget 2016-17 will be lowered to 3.2% for the coming year. At the same time, it is commendable that the budget reduces the revenue deficit to 1.9% of GDP, while increasing capital expenditure by over 25%.
 
 "Adherence to the fiscal prudence imperatives will lay the foundation for long term growth and CII appreciates this commitment," he said. It was heartening to note that the GST implementation is on track, he said.
 
 Forbes added the significant increase in infrastructure investments by 16% to 3.96 lakh crores would create demand for upstream and downstream sectors. It would also generate new employment opportunities.
 
