Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam, one of the two main organisations in the state which hold jallikattu, believes that the ordinance route has come as a permanent solution to surpass the ban on the state’s popular bull-taming sport. Kazhagam state president   who met chief minister   on Sunday at Madurai as representative of   outfits says the CM told them that the ordinance cannot be challenged in court. Speaking to SambathKumar, Rajesh said the students who spearheaded the agitation deserved full credit for bringing about a permanent solution for holding jallikattu which the Kazhagam has been campaigning for over a decade. Excerpts from the telephonic interview:

 
 A: The emergency ordinance in its present state is fool proof and cannot be challenged in Supreme Court. I thank the college students for the wholehearted support and urge them to call off the protest. They can now get back to witness jallikattu as it is being held at various parts of the state.
 
 
 A: A section of them are apprehensive that the Supreme Court may strike down the ordinance as it did with the union government notification early in 2016. But same is not the case now as the ordinance way has been taken after consulting legal experts. It has come through the right channel right from getting nod from Ministry of Home affairs followed by President of India which was later announced by the Governor. Hence, a stay on the ordinance is ruled out. 
 
 
 A: The social media campaign has been instrumental in spreading awareness among the youth on the conspiracy to push the native cattle breeds to the verge of extinction. We have been emphasising on all these issues over the past 10 years but they were effectively projected only in this campaign.
 
 
 A: We support the peaceful protest called by the students that has now helped us achieve our goal. We distance ourselves from any attempts which cause inconvenience to the general public. Like the rail roko agitation, political influence cannot be ruled out in preventing the withdrawal of the protest.
 
 
 A: It was indeed overwhelming to see youth hitting the streets as they felt that there identity was at stake. The way people from all walks of life strengthened the movement, it is certainly a lesson or rather warning for the rulers to mend their ways. While youth have come for jallikattu this time, they would certainly come for other issues as well and we as jallikattu organizers would support gtjhem wholeheartedly. 
 
 
