Chandigarh: The   management in the city is worsening day by day as the administration has failed in managing the vehicular movement as well as controlling the inflow of vehicles.

 Every other day, the congestion prone spots witness major traffic jams causing much inconvenience to the public. Massive jams are witnessed during peak hours (9 am to 11 am, 1 pm to 3 pm and then 5 pm to 6:30 pm) at 21 such spots.
 
 On Friday, the JW Marriot roundabout witnessed a major traffic jam for over two hours from 1:30 pm to 4 pm, leaving the commuters fuming and cursing the traffic cops. The roads leading to JW Marriot from Labour chowk, Kisan Bhawan and Sector 34/35 small crossing were choked.
 
 People were seen standing outside their vehicles waiting anxiously for the traffic clearance. UT traffic SP Ravi Kumar said the traffic jam occurred due to sudden breakdown of the traffic signal at the roundabout.
 
 But it was observed that there were no traffic cops at the roundabout, which figures in the list of 21 traffic congestion prone points in the city. The traffic cops appeared at the spot only after 20 to 30 minutes of signals going off. Thereafter, it took them over two hours to streamline the traffic.
 
 Talking to TOI over the phone, Sanjay Kumar, who was travelling from Labour Chowk towards JW Marriot, informed, “It’s been more than 30 minute that I have been stuck in the traffic jam. There is no escape route.”
 
 Similarly, another traveller Sandeep Kathuria coming from Kisan Bhawan side said, “This is daily routine now. Traffic cops are generally missing from this choke point especially during peak hours. City traffic police need to gear up for religiously managing the traffic in the city.”
 
 UT traffic SP Ravi Kumar said, “We immediately deployed traffic cops under supervision of inspector Karamchand but till then the situation had worsened. The bottleneck was regulated by 4 pm.”
 
 The traffic police have also issued orders to depute the cops at such vulnerable points.
 
 BOX
 
 City needs efficient public transport
 
 In the absence of an efficient public transport system, residents prefer their own vehicles, leading to traffic congestion and parking problem. The city has the highest density of vehicles in the country, the average number for each family being more than two.
 
 High density of vehicles
 
 1.46 L | highest number of vehicles registered in phase II (sectors 31 to 47)
 
 1.14L | registered vehicles in phase I (sectors 1 to 30)
 
 34,976 | registered vehicles in phase III (sectors 48 to 56)
 
 BOX: Snarl points
 
 Some of the key snarl points of the city included JW Marriot roundabout, Furniture Market roundabout, Housing Board light point, railway station light point, Matka Chowk, Sector 16 cricket stadium roundabout, Sector 17 ISBT roundabout, Aroma light point, Kisan Bhawan roundabout, Attawa roundabout and Poultry Farm roundabout.
 
 Box: Problem Stretch
 
 1.5km | Kisan Bhawan to JW Marriot roundabout
 
 1.5km | Labour Chowk to JW Marriot roundabout
 
 500 m | Sector 34/35 inner crossing to JW Marriot roundabout
 
 
