KOZHIKODE: Despite   being a critical biodiversity repository site along the Western Ghats, close to 1739.03 hectares of forest land in the eco-fragile district remain encroached. Environmentalists said that forest encroachments in Wayanad would pose a severe ecological impact as it has led to the degradation of forest and wildlife habitats and even affected the movement of wildlife in critical wildlife corridors.Historically, the district had witnessed large-scale diversion of forest land for tribal rehabilitation and other development projects. However, the forest department is now in a spot while taking action against encroachers as a sizeable portion of encroachments were carried out by tribesmen as part of tribal land agitations after 2005, especially under the   forest division. Conservationists said that the government figures on encroachment do not reflect ground realities as many encroachments made by owners of plantations, resorts and private individuals (those who trespassed into forest land by illegally extending boundaries) are yet to be ascertained.

 Forest officials said that they have not been able to even serve statutory notices to tribal encroach ers under   Forest Act 1961, Kerala Private Forests Act, 1971 as most of them refused to even receive the notice. Last year, the department decided to serve notices to those who encroached land after Jan 1, 1977.
 
 The government chalked out this move in response to a high court judgment dated September 4, 2015 which asked the government to remove encroachers. The court had ordered that the process should be initiated within a period of six months and eviction should be completed over the next six months. “We could serve only five notices in the entire division as tribesmen, who had encroached land, refused to receive the notices.Even attempts to serve the notice in person failed as political parties were against this move,“ said North Wayanad DFO, Narendranath Veluri.
 
 Tribesmen, under the aegis of pro-CPM Adivasi Kshema Samiti, Adivasi Congress and pro-BJP tribal organizations, had encroached forest land in areas like   and Irulam and erected makeshift tents in the area as part of their land stir.
 
 However in South Wayanad forest division, most encroachments were not carried out by tribesmen.As per department figures, as many as 3,000 families are residing in encroached land under the division.
 
 
 By Rajeev K R
 
