MADURAI:  , which are increasing by the day, touched Rs 80 per kg in the wholesale market and Rs 100 in the retail market in Madurai on Sunday. Traders said the prices will continue to soar for the next few weeks due to the lack of supply from the local region.

 The Tamil month of Aadhi begins on Monday. It is the month of festivals and ceremonies, and feasts are held in temples throughout this month. Accordingly, the prices of vegetables go up during this season due to the increased demand. However, this year the price of tomato, which was Rs 30/kg during the same season last year, has already touched Rs 80/kg in the wholesale market, indicating that this is also going to be an expensive festive season.
 
    tomato traders association president   said that they usually get around 10,000 boxes of tomatoes daily at the market, with each box containing 15 kilograms of tomatoes, but now the supply has dropped to only 4000 boxes.
 
 The price of one box of tomato in the wholesale market was Rs 1,000 on Sunday, and it sold at Rs 60/kg in the Central market, but the better quality fruits were priced at Rs 80, he said. The same was witnessed at the farmers markets in the city.
 
 K Ramesh of Viswanathapuram, said that he had gone to the Chokkikulam farmers market, where he was not given the liberty to pick the tomatoes. “I was told all the fruits were good and that one kilogram cost Rs 80, so I bought half a kilogram because he price is too high to be burdened with a couple of rotten tomatoes,’’ he said. 
 
 In Anna Nagar, S Ganeswari purchased a quarter kilogram for Rs 24. “A kilogram was being sold for Rs 96 and the trader told me he would give it for Rs 95 if I purchased a kilogram. Who wants to buy tomatoes for so much?’’ she said.
 
 V Chellam, a trader, said that the supply from the local farms in Theni and Dindigul district, where tomato is usually cultivated in thousands of acres, was almost nil at present and the market was getting its supply from Karnataka and  . “There doesn’t seem to be a possibility of getting supplies from the local farmers at least for the next two months, so the price will only continue to go up and may touch Rs 100 in the wholesale market soon,’’ he said.
 
