NEW  : In the latter half of the third decade of the 13th century, there was a scandalous rumour in Delhi: one that linked India’s first Muslim woman ruler,   Raziya, with her Abyssinian general Jamal-ud-din Yaqut.

 Nobody could say it for sure if the two were romantically involved, but the rumour helped conspiring nobles in the royal court to kill two birds with one shot — delegitimise the rule of a woman sultan by arraigning her character, and portray a very powerful noble as a perfidious man indulging in amoral dalliances with the ruler of the realm.
 
 This powerful Turkic clique, called the ‘chahalgani’, had another reason for disliking Yaqut—he was a ‘habshi’. 
 
 The recent spate of racial attacks on people of African origin in Greater Noida has brought to focus once again the xenophobia that blacks inspire among Indians.
 
 One just has to pore over news reports, or hear things said on the ground for the last couple of days, to find multiple instances of the use of ‘habshi’ by those treating black Africans with suspicion. Though it’s doubtful how many people actually know the historicity of the term or its association with Delhi.
 
 Back in the medieval age, the Horn of Africa was the favourite hunting ground of slave traders, first the Arabs, and then Europeans. A region of the Horn of Africa was referred to as Al-Habash by the Arabs and its people, the Habashis or Abyssinians.
 
 When these people came to India, either as traders or slaves, they were referred to as ‘habshis’, a Persianised version of habashis. And just as it happens with time, the term came to be associated with any black person in India. But while it’s unknown what sort of experience African merchants and traders had in India, many of those who came as slaves were destined for greatness.
 
 The Mamluks, who were the first Muslim dynasty to rule from Delhi, were slaves themselves but not in the modern understanding of the word. The egalitarian nature of medieval Islam meant that being a slave didn’t lock the fortunes of a man — a slave could rise to nobility and even kingship if he had it in him.
 
 And since these sultanates promoted meritocracy, it was perfectly possible for a black African slave to rise through the ranks and even become king. And no, they didn’t need the help of fairness creams to gain acceptability in Indian society.
 
 The Deccan, in particular, became a land of opportunity for African slaves, who influenced the political landscape. The most famous among them was Malik Ambar, the prime minister of Ahmednagar and Bijapur, the splinter states of the Bahmani Sultanate. It was he who had led the long resistance against Mughal expansion. It was he who frustrated Akbar and his son Jahangir. And it was he who had famously roped in the Marathas in this struggle and taught them the shoot and scoot tactics (ganimi kava) for which they became renowned.
 
 Bijapur, in particular, had many high-ranking nobles of African extraction led by another legendary general, Ikhlas Khan (the fact that he got the title Khan is a statement of the open-mindedness of the Indian society of the time).
 
 Also in the Deccan rose a full-fledged dynasty of African rulers in the Siddis of Janjira. Originally allies of the Bijapur Sultanate, the Siddis later became Mughal allies. After losing naval power to the British, they managed to retain their state and found another independent state called Sachin in Gujarat. Both continued until India’s Independence.
 
 Elsewhere in the east, four African slaves-turned-sultans ruled Bengal in quick succession, between 1487 and 1494. That period is referred to as ‘Habshi Rule’.
 
 However, it would be wrong to assume that all was hunky dory even when these fascinating and highly talented men held sway. Political opposition to them would often be coloured with racial hatred. For instance, Jahangir got a dream sequence captured in canvas where he shot an arrow on the severed head of Malik Ambar while abusing him for his colour and African descent. In reality, Jahangir could never defeat Ambar.
 
 Cut to modern times and there is little or no memory left among Indians of the African association they once had. What has survived, unfortunately, is the racial hatred, now only more pronounced, as the Greater Noida episode has shown. 
 
 
