NAGPUR: The   is likely to surprise all by not repeating over 60% of its sitting corporators in the upcoming   (NMC) elections. Two surveys conducted by the party have reportedly revealed that people are not satisfied with performance of 65-70% of its sitting corporators.

 The BJP city parliamentary board will meet on Sunday to finalize the candidates for 151 seats and also seal the pre-poll alliance with RPI (Athawale). Chief Minister   and Union minister for road transport and highways   will be present at the meeting along with all BJP MPs, legislators and members of parliamentary board.
 
 It is a prestigious elections not just for BJP, which is the ruling party at the state and centre, but also for Fadnavis and Gadkari, both of who have been elected from the city.
 
 BJP conducted two surveys in the last four months roping in private agencies from Pune and Aurangabad. Party sources told TOI that the first survey was related to the performance of sitting corporator of all wards of any political party and second particularly related to BJP corporators and aspirants. 
 
 “The BJP sought people’s opinion whether they want the sitting corporator to recontest or would they vote for a new candidate. Nearly 60-70% voiced their opinion against sitting corporators,” sources said.
 
 Ruling party leader and a three-term corporator Dayashankar Tiwari said it was a routine procedure of mixing new faces with sitting corporators. “BJP’s parliamentary board will decide who is going to contest from the party. Candidates are decided as per their presence and contact with people,” he said.
 
 BJP sources added there was a strong demand from party workers not to repeat corporators who have been elected for two or more times.
 
 “3,002 party workers appeared in the interviews and sought to contest elections on BJP’s symbol. It was a massive response. Party workers are excited with BJP’s good performance in the centre and state. They believe that the party is going to win over 100 of the 151 seats. Therefore, many wish to contest the elections this time,” sources said. 
 
 TOI learns that close confidantes of sitting corporators too have applied to contest. “This has put the BJP top brass in a fix as at least 2,856 applicants will not get tickets. BJP is likely to allot less than five seats to RPI (Athawale), and hence will be left with 146 seats,” sources said.
 
 To stop a rebellion and at the same time keep the enthusiasm going in the cadre, BJP had conducted counselling workshops in all six legislative assembly constituencies after the completion of interviews.
 
 BJP had won 62 seats in 2012 elections. Their number went up by one when independent corporator Satish Holey joined the party immediately after the elections. Now, with BJP’s   joining the Congress a month ago, only about 25 sitting corporators can aspire to recontest next month.
 
