PUNE:   in   and answers checked but no marks provided were among the grievances that compelled several SSC and HSC students to apply with the state   for re-evaluation. 

 The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education received the applications and made necessary changes in the results of 150 Class XII and 83 Class X applicants in terms of marks totalling, additional marks and rechecking, among others.
 
 With a stiff competition during the admission season where every mark counts, quite a number of students spotted that some pages in the answer sheets were not checked or some individual answers were left untouched for marking.
 
 One of the most common mistakes found in the evaluation process was faulty totalling. Besides, the students who felt that their marks were not up to expectations applied for revaluation — the process for which started the day after results for the SSC and HSC examinations were declared.
 
 The Pune division received over 600 applications, which included students applying for photocopies of their answer sheets to know the marks awarded by the assessors.
 
 Board authorities made it clear that actions would be taken against the assessors who were found responsible for the majore errors in the evaluation process.
 
 B K Dahiphale, acting chairman of the state board (Pune division) said, “The assessors who have committed major mistakes while checking the answer sheets will have to face action. A training of all teachers involved in checking of papers was conducted before the  . There are some human errors which could be understood. But there are some mistakes that were unwanted”
 
 During the training, the moderators and the assessors are oriented towards the paper checking process. An advisory is issued on the care that the assessors should take at the time of checking papers. Besides calculation, revision of marks calculated, marking every page of an answer sheet are among other instructions issued during the training programme.
 
 “If the assessor continue to commit mistakes despite the training, we will have to take action against them in accordance with the rules,” Dahiphale said. 
 
 The Pune division of the state board received 309 applications for revaluation from SSC students up to July 1. On the other hand, as many as 1,431 had applied for photocopies of answer sheets. After seeking the photocopies, 12 students re-applied for marks evaluation. 
 
 As of July 3, as many as 321 applications for revaluation and over 600 applications for photocopies were pending.
 
