Chandigarh: The people of Chandigarh today remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his 148th birth anniversary and several events were held to pay tribute to the Father of the Nation.

 Dev Samaj remembers Gandhi
 
 NSS units of Dev Samaj College of Education celebrated   on the college premises to mark the birth anniversary of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi. Principal Dr Agnesse Dhillon asked the students to render selfless services to the society. She also told the students to contribute to make the nation free from open defecation, corruption and unhealthy practices.
 
 DAV Sec 10 participates in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
 
 Following the theme of NSS special camp, the volunteers and program officers of DAV college Sector 10 held Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in their adopted village Dhanas. The volunteers cleaned Ambedkar colony and EWS Colony. Along with the local councillor of Dhanas village, a rally was flagged off from Dolphin Park to the market and EWS colony to create awareness amongst the residents. Nukkad natak (street play) highlighting the evil of unhygienic surroundings was also staged in two places in the village. A tree plantation programme was also carried out in the park. 
 
 Cong holds function 
 
 Local leaders of the Congress here on Monday remembered the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his 148th birth anniversary with Pardeep Chhabra, president Chandigarh Congress and other senior leaders paying floral tributes to him at a function held at the Congress Bhavan in Sector 35. Tributes also paid to Lal Bahadur Shastri, the second prime minister of India, who had given the famous slogan “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” (Hail the Soldier, Hail the Farmer). Chhabra said that Gandhi played a key role in India’s freedom movement. “The nation is indebted to him forever for his contribution in making India an independent country.”
 
 PU pays tribute to Father of the Nation
 
 The department of Gandhian and peace studies, Panjab University organised a week-long celebration to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. The event was concluded on Monday. On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Bharat Bhushan Bharti chairman Haryana Staff Selection Commission delivered a special lecture on Gandhi’s relevance in the contemporary world. In his talk, he highlighted Gandhi’s mantra of non-violence. Vice Chancellor Panjab University Professor Arun K Grover presided over the function. On this occasion, 2017 best mali award was given to construction officer Panjab University Jagjiwan Kumar. It included a cash award of Rs 2,100 with an appreciation letter from the registrar Col. Guljit Singh Chadha. The 2017 best volunteer of NSS award was given to Sandeep, USOL, Panjab University.
 
 North Zone Chandigarh Deaf Society gifts memento of Gandhi
 
 Former MP Satya Pal Jain on Monday was present at a function organised by North Zone Chandigarh Deaf Society in Rose Garden, Sector 16 to celebrate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. The society presented a memento with a photograph of Gandhi to Jain. He said that Gandhi always helped those who actually needed it.
 
 
