Coimbatore: The city police on Wednesday foiled the students’ bid to stage a massive protest to express their solidarity with the farmers who had been staging protest in New   since mid-March, demanding draught relief from the Centre and immediate constitution of Cauvery Management Board, by beefing up security at all likely protest venues.

 However, a section of students and members of Sigaram foundation who were part of the pro-jallikattu protest took to the roads in silent protest in a show of their support to the debt-ridden farmers of the state.
 
 The students and Sigaram foundation members staged the protest at Race Course. They were, however, detained and removed from the protest cite as police hadn’t given them permission to stage the demonstration at the area.
 
 The general public had also joined the protest, but the police asked them to clear from the area. The police detained at least 41 protesters, most of them students, and lodged them in a nearby marriage hall. All of them were released in the evening.
 
 Since Tuesday, police personnel had been deployed near   after students urged the general public through social media to turn up in huge numbers to show their support to the protesting farmers in New Delhi.
 
 Since section 144 was imposed on VOC Park, the police said, people were not allowed to assemble there. Permission to protest in other locations was also denied. “After the hashtag #Marina2.0 started trending on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, we beefed up the security cover at all likely protest venues,” the police said.
 
 The police barricaded the entire VOC Park ground, while heavy force was deployed at other protest sites in the city.
 
 “We only sought permission to stage a silent protest for the farmers of our state. Hundreds of them have committed suicide. The central government should understand their plight and help them accordingly. We want the public to take up their cause. We need to realise that we won’t have anything to eat if our farmers and their lands are destroyed,” said Shaji, a women protester.
 
 Another protester said they would continue the protest. “We do not mind braving bullets for our farmers. They are the source of our daily bread. Government thinks that these protests are politically motivated. But, we don’t belong to any party. We are students and employees,” he said.
 
