Vasco: Vasco police station has come under the radar for all the wrong reasons. While the police are doing a commendable job by booking cases against tobacco and alcohol users in public to discourage use of such harmful products, it has failed to keep eye on the cleanliness at its own police station. In its edition dated July 10, TOI highlighted that the Vasco police collected approximately Rs 1 lakh by booking 541 cases under the COTPA act. The report also stated that the staircase of the men’s barrack at the police station bears red stains of pan and ghutka. On Tuesday, the station drew attention to itself when empty beer bottles were found in the urinals of the men’s washroom used by the police staff. This raises several questions, including how the collection of so many alcohol bottles went unnoticed inside the Vasco police station premises. More pertinent is whether the police personnel drinks on duty. DIG Rupendra Kumar, when questioned about the beer bottles found in the men’s washroom said, “I will inquire with the inspector concerned and the SDPO. Only then will I be in a position to comment.” On the other hand, South Goa SP Arwind Gawas told TOI, “If this is true it is very sad. Cleanliness is a must. I shall immediately direct local officials there to clean the premises and keep an eye on the same.” He added that as he has taken charge just two days ago, he hasn’t had the opportunity to come down to the Vasco police station for inspection. Officials from Vasco station said, “The barracks are not only used by staff but also by traffic police staff, armed police and others. In such cases, it becomes very difficult to curb the menace. However, the PI concerned always stresses on cleanliness.”  The corners of the staircase of the men’s barrack at Vasco police station housing about 60 policemen, including 8 police sub-inspectors and assistant sub inspectors, head constables, constables and others, is full of ghutka and pan stains. The building has a ground plus three floors. For the past six months Vasco police has been active in booking offences of drinking in public. 