LUCKNOW: IIM-Lucknow   chairman Jamshed J Irani on Monday hailed the Central  . 

 Addressing the graduating students at  , Irani said, “It has never failed to surprise me how gullible leaders engage in various activities which ultimately result in reforms like notebandi.”
 
 Earlier, Irani, in 2015   had slammed the PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Achhe Din’ remark, saying that ‘Achhe Din’ are yet to usher in at IIM-L. 
 
 Congratulating the government and the implementing agencies for having tackled notebandi, Irani said, “Since two-three weeks, I have been travelling through smaller villages and towns in North India, and it is amazing how people, who reside at places away from business hubs like Lucknow and Mumbai, have taken the notebandi move in their stride.” Irani added, “All those involved in the government deserve our gratitude, and in times, people will realise that it (notebandi) is a great gift to the society engineered by political bosses.” 
 
 Thanking the bureaucrats and top officers in Lucknow, Irani said that in his 10-year stint as chairman, IIM-L, not even one improper request came to him or to the director in charge from the politicians. “IIM-L is looked upon as jewel. The government here has done everything possible to support it and in no way hindered the progress of the institution,” said Irani, adding that he expects the same kind of independence, support and encouragement from the new government. 
 
 Irani asked the graduating students to consider themselves as being privileged as it has been given to them by the generosity and attention of their parents. Asking students to stand up and applaud for their parents, Irani said, “For, they (parents) have given you a good start in your life. You owe a lot to them as they have made a difference to your life.” 
 
 “Be humble, true and honest, and you will not have much to regret at the end of your career. Ratan Tata was a humble person, never threw his weight around nor asked for privileges. This is the reason he earned the respect of whole world. World beckons you, go forth and take care of all opportunities.” Irani added. 
 
 
