BENGALURU: Karnataka has joined the league of states that have achieved 100% success in linking Aadhaar to ration cards. But ghost-lifting of foodgrains continues in the public distribution system due to the lack of adequate electronic point of sale (ePoS) devices required for biometric authentication.

 There are 20,456 fair price shops (FPS) in the state, but only 6,336 of these have installed ePoS devices (comprising a desktop or a laptop and a biometric scanner). With a total of 14,120 FPS continuing to do business manually, the scope for pilferage in the public distribution system (PDS) continues to be high in the state. Karnataka trails  , Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and a few other states on end-to-end computerization of PDS.
 
 According to data released by the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Tamil Nadu is the lone state in the country that has achieved end-to-end computerization of PDS: it has achieved 100% success in seeding Aadhaar with ration cards as well as FPS automation (all 34,773 fair price shops have been equipped with ePoS devices).   and Diu is the only Union territory to have achieved the milestone. With automation, all sale transactions in PDS are uploaded to a central server.
 
 So why is Karnataka laqgging behind? Principal secretary Harsh Gupta said: “Unlike Tamil Nadu where the ePoS devices were supplied to the fair price shops by its government, we have adopted the open source model. We have told the FPS owners to procure the ePoS devices on their own from the market. In return, we have enhanced margins for the FPS owners who install ePoS devices.”
 
 Gupta said the state government had earlier experimented with distribution of customized ePoS devices to FPS but had to discontinue it as the shop owners complained about glitches and logistical issues. “There was resistance from fair price shop owners to ePoS for various reasons...so we told them to buy the devices. This switchover process delayed FPS automation in the state,” Gupta said.
 
 An ePoS machine costs around Rs 25,000 and the government would indirectly reimburse fair price shop owners by enhancing the latter’s margins. Gupta said, “We are giving an extra Rs 17 per quintal to FPS owners who have installed ePoS. The numbers are slowly scaling up and is likely to touch 10,000 by next month.”
 
 States and Union territories with 100% Aadhaar seeding in ration cards
 
 Karnataka
 
 Tamil Nadu
 
 Andhra Pradesh
 
 Telangana
 
 Delhi
 
 Chandigarh
 
 Puducherry
 
 Daman and Diu
 
 Andaman and Nicobar
 
 
