PANAJI: From fixing bathroom tiles to putting a roof over their head, gifts in Goa during election time borders from the sublime to the ridiculous.

 Politicians eager to book one of the 40 available seats in the next legislative assembly have been floored, quite literally, by all the unusual demands from the electorate that will vote for the candidate of their choice on February 4.
 
 In a prominent South Goa constituency where a former MLA is eager to stage a comeback,   have told the MLA that they don’t want any money: Instead, they want laterite stones to complete work on their pending house, tiles for their roof and “good quality cement” that binds everything together. Construction of gutters, concrete roofing for semi-pucca structures and toilets are among the demands.
 
 Open spaces in localities have been developed into tiled and roofed structures where residents can spend leisurely evenings. Some MLAs are known to have constructed internal roads at their own cost, and even installed traffic signals.
 
 In Panaji constituency, whenever Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate is on his door-to-door campaign, sources said, most of the families seek government job for one of their own. Babush, involved in a bitter fight with the ruling   after being out of power for five years, has been left with no choice but promise them one.
 
 The former town and country planning minister who has now formed his own party is known to be among the more generous politicians in Goa, picking up tabs of his constituents for medical emergencies, school fees and books. This time around as he attempts to win his third different constituency in as many state assembly election, he has upped the ante, promising Rs 1 lakh to every new born girl child in the constituency and financial assistance to women entrepreneurs.
 
 “In previous  , voters were being lured with television sets, refrigerators, sewing machines and cycles but now there is a new trend,” said a source closely involved with the electoral process.
 
 Most of the demands for household items come from the slum areas which in Goa remain well-equipped with televisions, refrigerators and other gadgets. One MLA promptly delivered the refrigerator to his constituent, only to realise that the door was too small for it to be carried inside! Candidates are also coming up with innovations to register themselves, or their symbols, in the mind of the voter.
 
 A former MLA has ordered for 10,000 coconuts to be distributed among his constituents—like they say, one in each family, while another one ordered for as many key chains, if not more, which are handed over during door-to-door campaigns.
 
 “Demonetisation has hurt a lot of politicians. The flow of money is not as strong as before but there is always a way to beat the system,” a campaign manager told TOI.
 
 According to sources, several politicians passed on their ill-gotten wealth in Rs 500 notes to their constituents in December itself, asking all of them to “remember the gift” during election. Others have sought help from their friends who own bars and restaurants, asking them to provide unlimited stuff to whoever makes the demand.
 
 The practice of slipping higher denomination notes among the manifestos is common in Goa.
 
 “The ones who spend money on votes during election time are those who have not done anything in their constituency for five years,” said Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai.
 
 In Goa, the limit on election expenses per candidate is Rs 20 lakh but major parties and career politicians are known to spend much more, not just during elections but at least a year prior as well when gifts are showered in the form of rice, ghee, sugar and even sarees—with a few currency notes thrown in—during festive occasions like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali and Christmas.
 
 Then there are coupons – bearing symbols of different items—that are handed over during door-to-door campaigns. These coupons can be redeemed once elections are over, and even if the candidate has lost, you can rest be assured that this is one election promise that always gets fulfilled.
 
 As someone has said: A politician never spends. He always invests.
 
 
