Ulaganayagan   is back on the show discussing Aham TV, a pet name that he bestowed upon Bigg Boss. And just as last week, the actor began the show with a casual conversation with the housemates. Housemates discuss the Tamil tongue twisters that were assigned to each one of them. While Namitha aces her ‘Thatha Thatcha Satta’, Oviya just could not utter her without some heavy-duty body gestures. And, Kamal Haasan didn’t leave an opportunity to tease her and tried making her say the same tongue twister without any hand gestures, but in vain. Snehan, the teacher of the task complains that Bharani could have shown more involvement in the tongue twisters session, when people like Namitha who were not well-versed in Tamil showed interest. 

 Namitha added that she was always a back bencher in school due to her height and because of that she would eat her classmates’ lunch that were placed in the back rows of the class. 
 
  
  Ganesh Venkatraman adds that he is now in charge of the food inventory and has been able to save a good number of eggs for the week. Kamal shares an interesting anecdote that during the shoot of Ala Vandhan, he would have 30 egg whites every day. Later, they discuss the daily task Kitchen Kiladi where every member in the house said that all dishes were well-cooked and tasty. 
 
 Soon, it’s the time for some serious discussion and Julie,   and   are the subject of discussion, yet again. And this time around, Kamal Haasan criticizes both the actresses for not treating   well. He especially has a bone to pick with Gayathri and says that she has not been kind as a leader. Raiza agrees that Gayathri could have been said her opinion in a subtle manner and echoing her thoughts is Arav. In the house, Sakthi wants to make Oviya the team leader for next week to make her realise how difficult it is to co-ordinate with the team. 
 Kamal then asks the candidates for elimination this week – Bharani, Ganja Karuppu and Oviya – what would they say when the leave the house. He adds that m ore than 1 crore votes were cast to save candidates. So, who will be eliminated from the show? We will have to wait till tonight. 
 
 
 
