JAIPUR: The incessant rain in Southern and   has forced several schools, both private and government, to shut down indefinitely due to waterlogging and dilapidated condition of structures. The education department is monitoring the situation in Pali, Sirohi, Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswara districts.

 Aqeel Khan, SDM, Simalwara Tehsil in Dungarpur is monitoring the situation in the town. “The administration is taking a stock of things, especially the impact of rain water on schools. Those schools which has waterlogged in at alarming scale has been asked to shut down. It will remain shut until the situation becomes normal,” said Khan.
 
 The tribal region has schools located in the dense forest and hilly region. Here water logged in for days due to the forest cover posing a larger threat to the structures which are dilapidated in nature. Over 300 schools have been closed down in Dungarpur alone.
 
 The situation in flood hit Pali, Sirohi and Jalore has left majority of schools have been closed down. All educational institutes have been closed down in Sirohi district due to heavy rains. Suresh Ola, SDM of flood hit Mt Abu said the rains have not spared any structure. “Yes, schools have been asked to shut on daily basis. We are taking the decision on the basis of day to day situation. Schools will remain close on Wednesday,” said Ola.
 
 Districts which are not affected by the rains also has many schools where water has been logged in posing a threat of accidents, drowning or attack by the snakes and other wild animals which runs towards the city during rains.
 
 Sensing alarming condition of flood situation, education minister Vasudev Devnani has empowered the district collectors to declaring holiday in schools, if required.
 
 “It has been asked all concerned that if rains have caused even the slightest danger to the structure or water has been logged in and around school, it should be closed down. Our priority is life of students,” said Devnani. The department has already prepared a list of schools which are facing the danger in every district. The official figure on number of schools closed down has not yet given by the government but unofficial accounts say that more than 3,000 schools have been affected across the state.
 
