LUDHIANA: The 
  which was used by   (KVIC) on its 2017 calendar sparking a controversy, was shot at an event in Ludhiana in October last year. The organisers had even distributed charkhas to women from poor families at the event, but many of them no longer work, leaving the women dismayed.

  
  for an event organized by the micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) ministry. He had sat with the women on stage and spun the charkha, creating the photo opportunity. In addition to awarding entrepreneurs, some 500 charkhas were given to rural women to make them self-sufficient. According to the organisers, the charkha was to add Rs 150 to their daily income. Modi had told the gathering that the original slogan was 'Khadi for nation', but it should now be 'Khadi for fashion'. TOI visited   in Jalandhar where about 20 of the 500 charkhas were distributed. At least four of the women said that their charkhas were faulty and claimed that most of the other women had also packed up their wheels as they couldn't spin anything on them.
 
 Kulwinder Kaur has preserved her 'Modi charkha', as she calls it, in a cardboard box. A skilled worker with almost 30 years of experience, she prefers her 20-year-old charkha which works just fine. She pulls out the Modi charkha for a demonstration, but when she tries to spin it, the wheel jams and the wooden structure makes a screeching sound.
 
 She chuckles and says, “Hun dasso, ehda achaar pana? (What should I do with this, make pickle out of it?) Wouldn't it have been better to give us some money instead? The charkhas given to us in Ludhiana during the programme looked the same but were of superior quality .This one seems to be a cheaper version.“
 
 Ninder Kaur, Chintmani and Harpreet Kaur from the same village, too are expert spinners and had received charkhas at the event. Ninder Kaur has stored her charkha on first floor of her house.“This one works, but I don't use it as the wheels are not aligned, making it difficult to spin it,“ she says. “I prefer to work on my old charkha.“
 
 Chintmani and Harpreet too work their old wheels for similar reasons.
 
 Kulwinder Kaur adds that it is practically impossible for anyone to earn Rs 150 daily with a charkha. “We can spin only about three kg of yarn in 15 days,“ she says. “Earlier, we got Rs 45 per kg. It has been hiked to Rs 57 now. You can calculate for yourself how much we earn. Twenty ladies of our village got these charkhas but no one works on them.“
 
 When TOI approaches the house of Nanjo in Littran, she is busy spinning her old charkha along with her relative Paramjit. The one she got at Ludhiana has been stored in the attic. Her granddaughters brought in down. “The wheel is defective as it is made of damp wood. If we will operate it, it will break into pieces,“ Nanjo says. Another resident, Kamal, says she is able to earn only Rs 100 per week from charkha work which is not even a fraction of her family's expenses. “These charkhas given by Modi don't work as they get jammed,“ she says. I have kept mine aside.“
 
