PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Concerned about the lack of civic amenities, people residing in over 130 housing societies in   have staked their claim to become corporators by contesting the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal election next month.

 Residents said the problems they face and those living in the gaothan areas encounter are different. “We are facing problems of unauthorized hawkers on the roads. They attract buyers who park their vehicles along roads and cause traffic congestion. We do not have basic civic amenities like gardens, vegetable markets and playgrounds in this area. There are reservations in the development plan (DP) but they have not been developed,”  , chairman of Roseland Society, said. There is need for a representative from housing societies to be elected as a corporator as he or she knows our problems, he added.
 
 In the late 1990s, Pimple Saudagar was a sleepy village along Pavana river where agriculture was the main occupation. The village was merged into the civic limits in 1997. The state government set up the   park in Hinjewadi located around four km away which set the process for the transformation of Pimple Saudagar. 
 
 The IT professionals, who had come from different parts of the country to work in the IT companies in Hinjewadi IT park, needed houses close to their workplaces. This led to the builders constructing big housing societies on the abundant agricultural land in Pimple Saudagar. It now has hundreds of small, medium and big housing societies. 
 
 The total number of voters in Pimple Saudagar is 36,625 of whom 70% stay in housing societies. Four corporators will be elected in each of the 32 wards covering Pimpri Chinchwad. Like-minded residents wanting to work for the welfare of the residents have formed Pimple Saudagar Rahatni Development Forum.
 
 Sandeep Deore, founder-member of the forum, said, “We held a meeting three months ago and during our discussions an idea came up that a representative of housing societies should become a corporator. We have our own Facebook page and have received around 4,000 likes. We had invited missed calls from people to support our cause. We have received around 1,600 missed calls.”
 
 He added, “We are visiting housing societies to propagate this initiative and have visited around 30 housing societies ill now. People are making many queries about our intentions, plans and other issues during our discussions.”
 
