Visakhapatnam: As if in continuation with Christmas and Sankranti, the season of love too seems to have carved an identity of its own in the port city. Despite what the moral police or spoilsports say or do to blackmark February 14, the city shopping malls and gift outlets are all glittery and decked up like a festival on pre-Valentine’s Day weekend.

 Displaying cut-outs of red and pink hearts, ribbons, roses and heart-shape balloons, flower bouquets, lightings and with romantic music playing in the background of such décor, gift stores and malls have created an ideal environment for V-Day to market the merchandise. 
 
 The gifting trends and ideas seem to get more innovative and suitable for all pockets and categories of people – students, budding lovers, those whose love have blossomed, engaged couples, newly-weds and old couples – as there’s no age for love.
 
 Interestingly, in the era of smartphone and Facebook greetings, online quotations, romantic images and messages, the good old greeting cards seem to stage a comeback.
 
 However, the traditional cards come with a twist. Special handmade cards to give a personal touch, stupid cupid cards, Mickey-Minnie Disney card and Bollywood musical cards are in this time. Prakash Jain, proprietor of Archies Gift Store near Siripuram, said, “The price of cards range from Rs 50-Rs 500. The big musical cards with Bollywood songs fitted in each page come with a compilation of five all-time hit romantic tracks. There are also cards with English numbers. We have sold quite a few of these cards. Also, various types of love books – from funky, funny to romantic are also favourite picks of couples.”
 
 Besides cards, customised chocolates are also a favourite pick. Some chocolate boxes and wrappers have customised ‘Your smile brings a glow to my heart’ or ‘Happy Valentine’s Day’ message. Some chocolates have been given a red rose bouquet-look. “Though chocolates are simple and sweet gifts for any occasion, they can be made to look special while gifting on Valentine’s Day by just adding personalised messages or by adding an innovative touch like presenting it as a chocolate bouquet with teddies and so on,” said Yeshwant Parekh, proprietor of Darling’s Paradise, another gift shop in Waltair Uplands.
 
 “Usually, engaged and married couples are going for expensive gift items while young couples are opting for chocolates, key chains or coffee mugs, which are easier on the pocket,” added Parekh.
 
 Besides, cards and chocolates, the V-Day gifts showcased at various shops include dancing couple figurines placed inside glitter candle, imported polystone couple statues, couple mugs, key rings, teddy bears, love story books, magic mirror photoframe, antique-look glass bottles with messages and lights, heart shape washable cushions and pillows, some with romantic audio besides combo packs containing chocolates, teddy bears and jewellery. At the shopping malls, gift-wrapped perfume packs or heart shape jewellery are more in demand.
 
 
