NAINITAL: As the sun moves through the   that surround the   each morning, a fleet of boats in all   with excited   in tiny spaces becomes a common sight. Not much has changed in the scene since 1970s except that today, much to the dismay of tourists, water level in the lake has dwindled drastically.
 
  “One has to only look at how the shoreline of the lake has receded. This year seems to be exceptionally bad,” said 50-year-old boatman Rajendra Prasad Shilpi.
  
  This summer, water in the lake, which is the only source of supply to the town, has plunged to an unprecedented 18 feet below normal, according to data available with the irrigation department.
  
  Talking to TOI, DCS Khetwal, chief engineer, Kumaon Zone, irrigation department, said, “The water level at the lake has been continuously declining and has dipped 18 feet below normal this year.”
  
  At the Southern end of the lake, known as Tallitaal, the surface has been marked ‘zero’. The depth of the lake and water level is measured by adopting this mark as a base. 
 
 Vishal Singh, a senior research scholar from Centre for Ecology Development and Research (CEDAR), said, “In the monsoon, the water level reaches 12 feet above this zero mark which is considered the normal level of water. At present, the water level is 18 feet below the 12 feet mark considered normal."
  
  In the past few summers, the water level has been recorded at three to four feet below zero. Last year in May, the level of water was two feet below zero. In the 1970s, when the quaint town was emerging as a popular shooting destination for Bollywood and real estate developers had started arriving, the water level during summer would be measured at one feet below the zero mark.
  
  Ajay Singh Rawat, former head of the department of history of Kumaun University, who has been campaigning for long to save the lake, said, “The level of water in the body is now reported to be 18 feet below normal, something that I have never witnessed. The lake is going to turn into a mere pond if strict steps are not taken.”
  
  Experts have blamed illegal construction, felling of trees, concretisation of catchment area and destruction of natural springs for the present state of affairs.
  
  “Of the 60 natural springs in the city that recharged the lake, only 30 exist today and even those have alarmingly decreased water flow,” said Rawat.
  
  Another contributing factor as pointed out by experts is the neglect of Sukhatal, which recharges more than 50% of the lake. Singh said, “Despite strong evidence through research conducted by the National Institute of Hydrology approximately 20 years ago about the importance of Sukhatal, it was blatantly neglected by the authorities.”
  
  A study carried out by CEDAR in collaboration with Cambridge University in 2015 found that Sukhatal provides more than 40% subsurface flow to Naini lake round the year, especially during drier months. Sukhatal can absorb large amount of rainwater due to its topography which includes presence of limestone and dolomite.
  
  After Ajay Singh Rawat filed a PIL in the Uttarakhand high court in 2012, requesting the court to convert Nainital into eco-sensitive zone in order to save the ecosystem of the area, the court last year ordered IIT Roorkee to submit a detailed project report about beautification and recharge of Sukhatal area.
  
  Experts also said that the town and the lake are unable to meet the needs of a burgeoning population and increased tourist inflow. “The consumption of water in the hill town has increased manifold. Earlier, it was around 6-7MLD per day which has now shot up to 16MLD. Water consumption in the town, which passed its carrying capacity in 2006, is also a factor contributing hugely to degradation of the water body,” Rawat said.
  
  In the past two decades, no comprehensive research has been done to study changes and requirements to preserve the lake and surrounding water bodies. Reports show that delta-like structures, known as ‘fangs’, which would appear only during dry summers at the borders of the lake are visible through the year.
 
  The ‘deltas’ are formed due to below normal depth and deposition of debris and silt on the bed. These structures are hampering the natural course of slow drainage from the water body through underground smaller canals built by the British for drainage in the catchment area.
  
  The dire state of the eye-shaped water body that gives the town of Nainital its name has prompted concerned citizens to launch a petition on change.org urging chief minister TS Rawat to save the lake.
 
  The petition has garnered more than a thousand signatures in a few weeks, including those of celebrities such as singer Shubha Mudgal. A barefoot march is also being organized in the city on June 3 to raise awareness on the need to save the lake.
