KOLKATA: A   working in London was in for a   on Thursday when she received a call on her   informing her that she would be deported. The caller told her she was involved in acrime committed in India and her address would be given to the cops.

 Dum Dum girl Reshmi Halder tweeted her experience to Union minister Sushma Swaraj, who assured her saying: “All such calls are fake. I am sending this to Indian High Commission in London to follow this up with the police.“
 
 An online search on the caller's number revealed that many immigrants have been similarly harassed by such calls. Some victims have complained of being harassed over phone for two hours with threats of arrests if penalty isn't paid online. They even claimed to have the passport details of the victims.
 
 “People usually feel scared and don't report these calls. I'm very happy that Sushmaji replied to my tweet. At least others will now be on alert,“ said Halder, who has been working as a financial consultant in London since October 2015.On being asked if she feels that hate crimes on immigrants are on the rise in the UK now, Halder said, “People here understand that Indians are working in the UK on the virtue of their talent and skill sets. They know that we are good at our jobs. It's a minority that is insecure.They indulge in such hate crimes. But that doesn't mean I will feel scared to live here.“
 
 A student of Lake School for Girls, Halder had completed her engineering from Techno India before moving to London in 2010 to pursue an MBA. Once, while studying in London, she had got a fraudulent call.But Thursday's threat was more serious. She received this call around noon from a number listed on the UK Home Office's website. “The person had a proper British accent. I could understand that there were other people in the room too,“ she said. Incidentally, she was in Kol kata and Bengaluru some three weeks back. “When I wanted to know what crime I was allegedly being blamed for, they asked me how I could be asking such a question. I had a meeting and wanted to finish the call quickly . When they realised that I might hang up, they insisted that disconnecting the call would be a big offence.“
 
 The threats infuriated Halder. “The British are very polite, but this caller wasn't. I was so angry that I told them that I wouldn't be able to speak and if that meant deporting me, so be it,“ she said.
 
 Fear sank in once she hung up and she informed her employer about the call. “My company's MD called up the number and found that I had received a fake call. Perhaps they wanted money from me and hence tried to threaten me this way . But it's strange that a such a call came from a number listed on the UK Home Office's website. Since my details were with the caller, I was asked to lodge a police complaint and dialled 101,“ she said. In the evening, she visited the Plaistow police station and, as advised, she will also lodge another complaint on a website meant to track frauds.
 
 Till Friday afternoon, she hadn't informed her Kolkatabased parents about the call.The day the London terror attack happened, she had received frantic calls from family and friends in Kolkata. “My office and home are far from Westminster Abbey . I told them I was safe. My parents' favourite pastime is to worry about me. So, I haven't told them about this incident. But it's better that they know about the incident from me than from anyone else,“ she said before making a call back home.
 
 
