GURUGRAM: Police on Monday recovered seven   and 5,000 cartridges during a raid at the home of the kingpin of a  . Thirty-five-year old Manish Bhardwaj, the key accused, however, is still absconding though his accomplice, Mohan Lal (52), was arrested on Sunday.

 “We have recovered three pistols made in US and Japan, one shotgun, one single barrel and one double barrel gun with around 5,000 cartridges from the house of main accused, Manish Bhardwaj alias Kala, who is still absconding. His family members claim that accused is fond of hunting, however, we have lodged an FIR under the   as he possessed all the weapons illegally. Further details can be verified only after his arrest”, Anil Yadav, ACP (Sadar), who is heading the special investigation team (SIT) for the case told TOI.
 
 TOI reported on February 12 that the Gurgaon police recently unearthed the scam and an FIR was registered against the two accused for allegedly getting 15 fake firearms licences "renewed" in the city with forged documents.
 
 A probe by joint commissioner Sibas Kabiraj revealed the accused connived with staff from the joint CP's office as well as other departments to execute the crime. This is because no unique identification number (UIN) was generated for any of the arms licences "renewed" by the Gurgaon police, as per the Union home ministry guidelines, he said in his report. The fake licences submitted by the accused carried addresses of various states such as Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Jharkhand. 
 
 “Mohan Lal, the co-accused in the case, confessed that they made fake arms licences after submitting fake NOC in the office of joint commissioner. To leave no scope of doubt, they sent the NOCs through registered post,” said Yadav
 
 The   staff in the office of joint commissioner has been transferred after the scam was unearthed.
 
 “If we come across any sort of involvement of the cops, we will follow due course of law,” said Sandeep Khirwar, police commissioner, Gurgaon. 
 
 
