PUNE: The fervour to include 34 fringe villages in the   limits by the civic body and the state government has experts and planners on the edge.

 They have objected to the move saying that the merger will place an additional burden on the civic body and will not serve any purpose. 
 
 Some years ago, various parties and leaders had floated a proposal to form a separate Hadapsar Municipal Corporation. However, it was not taken forward by the state. Experts now insist that such a decentralization will help the city develop and create quality infrastructure.
 
 The civic body has submitted the estimated cost to develop infrastructure in these likely to-be-merged villages after the state government filed an affidavit in the Bombay high court stating that it is "inclined" towards the merger.
 
 Senior urban planner Ramchandra Gohad said the administration should learn from previous mergers and avoid any repetition. 
 
 “Thousands of buildings were constructed in these fringe villages after the merger plans were announced. As the merger process dragged on, many constructions without plans came up. Today, the civic body is struggling to provide basic amenities in these areas. The 34 villages will meet a similar fate," he said.
 
 Smaller civic bodies will be able to cater to the needs of citizens. A decentralized system is needed if more areas are going to be added to the municipal limits.
 
 The merger will place an additional financial burden of Rs 5,720 crore on the civic body, whose entire budget for this year stands at about Rs 5, 600 crore.
 
 Civic officials said about Rs 300 crore will be needed to lay roads, drains and other amenities. The administration will use capital expenditure of Rs 2,700 crore in the next four years while almost the same amount will be required for maintenance of the facilities.
 
 “If the new municipal corporation has to be developed, it should encompass new villages. The current area from PMC should not be added into it. But forming a new civic body will not be an easy task.   and roads will be a big issue,” leader of opposition in PMC Chetan Tupe said.
 
 Talks for the new municipal corporation have been around since 2012. The current state government lacks the will to deal with it, he added. 
 
 Citizens' group Haveli Taluka Nagari Kruti Samiti had filed a petition in the high court to expedite the merger process. 
 
 "The villages are financially sound. They will not place any financial burden on the existing body. The authorities should include them in the municipal limits and then decentralising of power can be done according to geography,"  , the convenor of the group, said.
 
