AHMEDABAD: Gopalsingh Bhadoria’s father Munimsingh expressed anger over the increase in terror attacks, leading to the death of several jawans. “I would have been more proud if my son had attained martyrdom in war rather than losing his life to terrorist cowards,” said Munimsingh, his face smeared with tears of grief and anger. “Enough is enough, we are losing more jawans in terror attacks than in war. Give me a gun I will go the Valley and fight. We have to finish things once and for all.”

  Munimsingh said that despite being a private security guard, he realized the potential of Gopalsingh and admitted him to a prestigious educational institute so that he could study for a BTech degree after schooling in Kadi. “Gopal, however, was driven by a strong desire to join the Indian Army and left the engineering course in the third semester in 2003 to join the Army,” Munimsingh said. “His mother Jayshree Devi and I told him that he would not be able to handle the tough physical training.” But Gopalsingh prevailed and showed his mettle. Munimsingh said that his son was religious as a boy, but guns had caught his fancy early. “As a child, he would play with the service weapon of his maternal grandfather M M Kushwah, who was a PSI with the  ,” he said. “Look what destiny has brought — he died with a gun in his hands.” Gopalsingh’s younger brother   is a Home Guard Jawan and also drives an auto. He is not able to come to terms with the demise of his brother. “He is in a semi-conscious state. Gopalsingh’s eldest brother Sanjay, who works in a private company in Indore, is also besides himself with grief, ” said a relative. Munimsingh said till now they haven't received any condolence message from the central government.
 
 
 
 
 Gopalsingh had joined the Indian Army in 2003 as a Short Service Commission personnel. He was to retire in three years. “He was a religious person and whenever he came home on leave he used spend a considerable time at the temple on the first floor of the house,” said Munimsingh. “He had recently sent me and his mother for a pilgrimage to Maharashtra. He wanted to spend the rest of his life in religious service.”
 
 
 
 
 Gopalsingh had been selected for the   (NSG) training in 2008. While he was a trainee at the NSG, he was sent to fight terrorists during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack at the Taj Hotel. “During the attack, NSG Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, who was later martyred, was injured. It was Gopalsingh who carried him from the hotel to an ambulance. He was awarded a gallantry medal for this brave act,” said Munimsingh.
 
 
 
 
 Gopalsingh was on leave from December 15 to January 30. While leaving for Kashmir told his mother Jayshree Devi, “Don’t love me so much mother, I will not come home this time,” according to Munimsingh. He did not allow his father and mother to even come out of the house to see him off. He ran and got into an auto and went away, never to return.
 
 
 
 
 The Bhadoria family used to live in Chamanpura before shifting to Bapunagar. “My son inspired more than fifty youths there to join the Army. Even after his martyrdom, several youths here have promised me that they will join the Army and avenge deaths of jawans like my son,” said Munimsingh.
 
 
 
 
 Gandhinagar: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Gujarat demanded Rs 1 crore assistance for the family of fallen soldier Gopalsingh Bhadoria. Gopal Rai, a minister in the Delhi government who visited the family on Monday said the Gujarat government increased assistance to the family from Rs2.5 lakh to Rs 4 lakh, which is too little. The Delhi government has increased assistance to the families of fallen soldiers from state to Rs1 crore. Gujarat government also needs to respect the martyr.” Meanwhile, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday announced Rs4 lakh compensation to the family of Gopalsingh Bhadoria. Rupani said the state government decided to extend Rs4 lakh assistance to all Army jawans from Gujarat killed on duty in the last six months.
 
 
