NOIDA: A doctor couple and three other family members were taken hostage in their own car by an armed gang on   and robbed off cash and valuables while the family was returning from Aligarh to Ghaziabad late on Tuesday night. The criminals also allegedly tried to kidnap the family but fortunately they could not operate the automated car.

 The incident took place near Luharni Toll under Dadri police station. A resident of Govindpuri in Ghaziabad, Dr Vishal Garg (42) said he was returning in his Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza car with his wife Dr Binny Garg (37), two children — Swapnik (7) and Sattwik (9) — and mother Kamlesh (70). Vishal Garg is a pediatrician and runs a clinic in Dadri while Binny is a dentist at a private hospital in Ghazaibad.
 
 According to Garg, some five or six armed criminals started tailing them in a Maruti Swift car on the way. “When we reached near Luharni Toll, the criminals overtook our car and forced us to stop. They got down from their vehicle and asked us to open the door. When we did not open the door, the criminals smashed the windshield and forced us to open the door at gun point,” he said. 
 
 The criminals threatened the family of dire consequences if they resisted the   bid. Vishal Garg said they robbed two diamond necklaces, five gold rings, two gold bangles, and Rs 35,000. “Two criminals got inside our car. One of them took the driving seat and tried to drive. The car was automatic and had no keys. The criminals tried but could not operate it,” he said.
 
 After some time the criminals fled with the valuables and cash worth Rs 7 lakh in their Maruti Swift car. The victims then drove their car to Dadri police station and registered an FIR.
 
 “I narrated the entire incident to police. I could not spot the registration number of criminals’ car since it was dark. But they were 5-6 in numbers,” he said adding that the family members, especially the children were scared. A team of police officers later reached the spot but the criminals had fled by then.
 
 Sujata Singh, SP (rural), G B Nagar said an FIR for robbery has been registered against criminals. “We have formed two teams to nab the criminals,” she said.
 
 
