Trichy: Meat shops the city were open in most parts of the city making brisk sales despite   by the corporation on Sunday as part of Mahavir Jayanti. Many of the meat shops were trying to compensate for the loss in sales on Saturday as many of them had remained closed assuming it to be Mahavir Jayanti. 

 The City Corporation had issues notice a couple of days back directing the shops to remain closed on Mahavir Jayanti. Slaughter of animals and sale of meat is prohibited by the state government on Mahavir Jayanthi, Vallalar and Thiruvalluvar day. 
 
 According to the city corporation, confusion on the date of Mahavir Jayanthi too led to opening of few shops which were made to shut later in the day. 
 
 As most sales happen during the weekend, many had lost their business on Saturday and wanted to make some sales on Sunday. “Many of our regular customers were making calls over availability of meat on Sunday since we were closed on Saturday assuming it to be Mahavir Jayanti. However only in the morning we were told that it will be observed on Sunday,” said a meat shop owner near Ponmalaipatti. 
 
 We get some business only during the weekend. Since we were closed on Saturday, we opened on Sunday to compensate for the business lost on Saturday, he said. 
 
 “The idea of announcing prohibition of sales and slaughter of animals is to pay respect to those who had preached peace and humanity. But mere announcement without proper implementation makes no sense,” said K C Neelamegam, secretary of Thaneer, a city based voluntary organisation. 
 
 Meat shops at Ponmalai, Subramaniapuram, Palakkarai and Woraiyur made brisk sales despite announcement on prohibition, he said.
 
 “Many calendars showed Mahavir Jayanti on Friday unlike the list of leaves as the per government list which was marked as Saturday,” said N Ravichandran, city corporation commissioner.
 
 “Though we had issued instructions many shops remain shut on Saturday itself assuming it to be Mahavir Jayanti,” said the special officer.
 
 “As soon as we got the information in the morning over opening of shops near Ponmalai and few other parts, we alerted the officials and made seizures,” he added. 
 
 Moreover, the limited sales that happened on Sunday was the leftover meat on the previous day which was preserved in the freezers.
 
 “The idea of prohibition is to ensure that there is no slaughter of animals. Given the fact that both the slaughter house in the city closed, there wasn’t any slaughter of animals,” maintained corporation officials.
 
 
