CHANDIGARH: Punjab   unit on Saturday choose to remain silent on the performance of state local government minister   even as it listed "failures" of all the other nine cabinet ministers and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in its six-month report card of the Congress government.

 Sidhu, who has been former   and   member from BJP, had resigned from the party in November 2016, to join the Congress in January this year ahead of the Punjab assembly elections.
 
 State BJP vice-president Harjit Singh Grewal and secretary Vineet Joshi said every minister of the Amarinder-led Congress government had completely failed in the last six months. When questioned why the state BJP unit had not mentioned Sidhu’s name anywhere in its two-page report card of the government released on Saturday, both BJP leaders tried to avoid the question.
 
 Grewal replied, "I would not like to comment anything on this." However, Joshi said, "We may come up with Sidhu’s report also in coming days."
 
 To a question whether the state BJP unit was expecting ‘ghar wapsi’ of Sidhu in the near future, Joshi tried to avoid the question by saying, "Ghar wapsi has become a bad phrase these days having negative connotations."
 
 Joshi said that the Congress government had failed to fulfill its poll promises of loan wavier of farmers, drug eradication within a month, job for each household, Rs 2,500 unemployment allowance and smartphones for youth and Rs 1,500 pension for the elderly.
 
 BJP’s report card about the government’s performance said that finance minister Manpreet Badal had completely failed as he was not even able to release employees’ salaries on time. Irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh failed since he was ineffective in cleaning the 1,500 km drain network in the state leading to flooding of acres of farm land, read the report card.
 
 Education minister Aruna Chaudhary too failed since even after six months, neither did the textbooks reach schools, nor the school uniforms, said Joshi.
 
 He added SC and BC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was not able to ensure release of funds under Centre-sponsored post-matric scholarship to students. The report card said that technical education minister Charanjeet Singh Channi unsuccessfully tried to camouflage the job festivals organised by private colleges as Punjab government’s initiative of providing jobs to unemployed youth under his ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ plank.
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra was responsible for ruining parliamentary traditions by not allowing the opposition MLAs to speak and instead forcibly throwing them out of the Vidhan Sabha, it alleged.
 
 The report card read that rural development and panchayati raj minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa failed because the Congress had promised to strengthen panchayati raj institutions in its poll manifesto but the government was planning to amend the Panchayati Raj Act for withdrawing the power to remove sarpanchs or panchs from director panchayats and according it to the deputy commissioners.
 
 Listing failures of social security minister Razia Sultana, Joshi said leave aside fulfilling its promise of providing pension of Rs 1,500 per month to elderly, widows and the specially-abled, the department was not even providing the previous Rs500 per month pension to about 19 lakh beneficiaries.
 
