NEW DELHI: Perhaps never before in the history of  , had its members worked under such extraordinary pressures. From the early hours of December 17, 2012 to January 3, 2013, a group of policemen from south Delhi could sleep only for a few hours at a stretch.

 As Delhi remained on the boil in the aftermath of the gang rape and murder, the group of cops—known as “Nirbhaya SIT”—locked themselves up in a 10 x 10 room for a week to draft, which eventually turned out to be a landmark  .
 
 It appeared to be a “blind case” in the first few hours. There was only one clue—five-six men travelling in a white bus. Around 10am on December 17, police received CCTV footage, which was blurry. They got a glimpse of a white bus crossing the Mahipalpur flyover, but could not figure out details like registration number.
 
 After playing and rewinding the tape for nearly 200 times, cops zeroed in on three clues: the word “Yadav” written on the bus, yellowish curtains and a missing wheel cap. 
 
 After the initial hullabaloo over the arrest of the accused came to rest, massive protests erupted in the city.  , meanwhile, was flown to Singapore as a last resort. However, she lost her battle for life on December 29. 
 
 As protests intensified at India Gate, the men in khaki were under   to bring the situation under control. A constable died of a stroke while on duty. But for Delhi  , the real challenge was not yet over: they had to draft a chargesheet, which would ensure exemplary punishment to the accused. And for this, the cops had to race against time.
 
 By December 25, ten officers began to work round the clock. The team comprising DCPs—Chhaya Sharma and Pramod Kushwaha—and inspectors, Rajender Singh, Aishveer Singh and Anil Sharma, among others were stationed at the special task force’s office on the first floor of Vasant Vihar police station.
 
 All cops were under surveillance. The operational part of the final report (summary) was drafted by then special commissioner, Dharmendra Kumar, on his mobile phone. The report was ready on January 3.
 
 The chargesheet had many firsts: it was the first time cops used forensic odontology—using teeth/bite marks—to prove culpability. The forensic dentistry department of the SDM Dental College in Dharwad, Karnataka, played a vital role in establishing the crime by the five accused. The doctor even testified in court. Then police chief, Neeraj Kumar, requested Supreme Court lawyer Dayan Krishnan to become the special prosecutor in the case. 
 
 Apart from this, biological evidence was maintained to ward off any scope of suspicion. Use of many forms of dying declarations, including Nirbhaya’s gestures, photo TIP and a total emphasis on scientific investigation made this case an example to be followed.
 
 Weeks after filing the main chargesheet, supplementary chargesheets were also filed against the five accused. Reports from the Singapore hospital and the robbery, which the accused had committed before giving lift to Nirbhaya and her friend from Munirka, were take into account as well. Another report was filed against the juvenile offender, who was later awarded three years in a shelter home.
 
 
