NAGPUR: As the lifespan of women is increasing, the number of post-menopausal women is increasing phenomenally. Keeping this idea in mind,   ( ), Nagpur chapter, has organized a certificate training course on ‘Hormonal update’.

 Noted gynaecologist Dr Laxmi Shrikhande, the newly installed president of IMS, said, “To take good care of these geriatric women, doctors needs to update their knowledge on periodic basis, for that purpose we will be organizing such activities on periodic basis.”
 
 Shrikhande said, “Still there are many apprehensions in the minds of treating doctors as well as the forty plus women whether she should opt for hormonal replacement therapy. Prescribing doctors have to seriously consider in whom to prescribe hormones, what dose and for how much duration?”
 
 Shrikhande along with Dr Suvarna Khadilkar, Dr Kanchan Sortey and Dr Swati bhave answered all these questions during this training course. “Large number of gynaecologists from all over   participated in the certificate training course,” said Shrikhande.
 
 The new team of IMS got installed on the same day at the hands of chief guest Hon’ble Mayour Nandatai Jichkar at Hotel Center Point, Ramdaspeth. National President IMS Dr Suvarna Khadilkar was the guest of honour.
 
 During the ceremony Shrikhande was installed as the new president, while   and Hospital (IGMCH) associate professor Dr Kshama Kedar as the secretary.
 
 Other team members are Dr Kanchan Sortey, immediate past Secretary, Dr Ujjwala Kedare, immediate past Joint Secretary and Treasurer Dr Pragati Khalatkar.
 
 In the afternoon, a health awareness programme was organized for women above 35 years of age. Experts guided the candidates about diet, yoga, exercise, cancer prevention. Free Bone Mineral Density (BMD) and Haemoglobin test was performed for all the candidates.
 
 Executive Members in the new team include Dr Anuradha Ridhorkar, Dr Alka Mukherjee, Dr Archana Kothari, Dr Rashmi Bhaisare, Dr Ritu Dargan, Dr Rujuta Fuke, Dr Vidya Sutaone, Dr Vandana Medhekar, Dr Dipti Kiratkar, Dr Sutapa Roy and Dr Sheela Jain.
 
