MUMBAI: A   of a cleaner   not only went viral on social media, but also generated a buzz of positivity and left people across the country enthused and inspired at what a common man can achieve to save the environment.   and citizens alike commended the clean-up and even pledged support. Actor Ajay Devgn retweeted the photograph tweeted by advocate Afroz Shah, who had launched the beach clean mission in 2015, saying, “Cleanliness is a responsibility that belongs to all the citizens, One man can make a difference and this man has shown us how.” 

 On Sunday, Shah and 100-odd volunteers were back on the beach with gloved hands and removed at least 20,000kg of embedded plastic trash and other litter in over two hours. 
 
 Shah, who was the first Indian to get an UN Earth Champion Award last December, remained untiring in his effort to clean the 2.7-km beach stretch which was covered with litter a year and half ago. A weekend clean-up plan along with dedicated volunteers slowly saw the sand resurfacing—at least 5.3 million kg of trash has been removed. 
 
 On Saturday, into the 85th weekend of clean-up, a photograph taken by Versova volunteer Jaya Rathod sent to Shah to thank him for transforming the beach and tweeted by him notched a record over 12,000 likes and almost 6,000 retweets within 24 hours. The tweet generated over 5.7 lakh views and 90,000 engagements, and also more than doubled Shah’s followers to over 3,000.
 
  Actors Farhan Akhtar, Arjun Rampal, Raveena Tandon, Pooja Bhatt, Rajat Kapoor, Aditi Rao Hydari, Karanvir Bohra and Ronit Roy retweeted as did minister of youth affairs and sports Vijay Goel and Oscar-winning sound engineer Resul Pookutty. “Exemplary and great deed by this young man. Hope others draw inspiration from Afroz. Bravo,” tweeted Goel, the first BJP minister to tweet about the clean-up. 
 
 Bhatt wrote, “Who says miracles don’t occur, right here on this very earth. Your vision and consistency needs to be applauded and how.’’ Suhel Seth even addressed PM Narendra Modi in his tweet. “It is people like Afroz Shah who are actually making swach Bharat a reality. HE needs your commendation.’’ 
 
 Entrepreneur Kiran Mazumdar Shaw in a retweet said, “Kudos to Afroz Shah, unleashing people power.” 
 
 
