Madurai: Contrary to the general belief, demonetisation doesn’t seem to have taken a toll on the number of tourists visiting Madurai district which has only gone up in 2016 both in terms of foreign and domestic tourists. The announcement to demonetise currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations was taken in November. With tourists struggling to get cash, it was widely believed to have had a bearing on the travel industry especially in the run-up to the Christmas - New Year season. 

 Now, data available with the tourism department reveals that the number of tourists who visited the district last year was much higher than in 2015. However, many connected with tourism and allied sectors don’t buy this and say they had not at all benefitted from any such increase in tourist arrivals. They say that the industry is yet to limp back to normalcy. 
 
 According to the data, 1.23 crore domestic tourists visited Madurai in 2016 which is substantially higher than the 1.02 crore who came to the district in 2015. Similarly, 89,448 foreign tourists arrived in 2016 as against the 88,279 in 2015. Put together, there has been an increase of 20,64,668 tourists in 2016.
 
  officer S M Sribalamurugan claimed that they had made elaborate arrangements to ease things for tourists in Madurai after demonetisation was announced. The department has been continuously striving to provide better facilities wherever necessary. “Tamil Nadu is a most sought-after destination for its multi-faceted tourism appeal. The department will continue to strive to make things better for our guests,” he said. 
 
 Madurai travel club president S Senthilnathan said that the peak season for Madurai started only in October and ended by March. The demonetisation announcement came at a time when the tourists had just started visiting the city. However, he says that the rise in arrivals was not reflected in the expenditure of tourists. Many had cut short their trips and curtailed spending.
 
 “The industry is not yet completely back on track. Already the season is on the brink and henceforth tourists will mostly prefer the hilly places rather than Madurai. There were efforts by tourism department to help tourists who planned well in advance before the demonetisation announcement came. However, the blow to the industry could not be averted,” he said.
 
 P Mathialagan, a local tourist operator, said that after two months of all-time low, things have just about started looking up in terms of earnings. They are hopeful that the sector will be back on track soon. 
 
