PATNA: In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the state government on Monday transferred 28 IAS officials, including seven district magistrates.
 
  Gaya deputy development commissioner (DDC) Sanjiv Kumar has been posted as Bhojpur DM replacing Birendra Prasad Yadav, who has now been posted as special secretary in backward classes and extremely backward classes welfare department.
  
  Biharsharif municipal commissioner Kaushal Kumar has been made the new DM of Nawada replacing Manoj Kumar, who has been posted as additional secretary in education department.
  
  Nalanda DDC Kundan Kumar has been posted as Banka DM replacing Deor Nilesh Ramchandra, who has been made new DM of West Champaran.
  
  West Champaran DM Lokesh Kumar Singh has been made executive director of the State Health Society of  .
  
  Katihar DDC Mukesh Pandey has been made new DM of Buxar replacing Raman Kumar, who has been transferred to East Champaran (Motihari) in similar capacity replacing Anupam Kumar. Anupam has been made state transport commissioner. Anupam has also been given the additional charges of information and public relations department (IPRD) director and managing director of Samvad Samiti, a body formed in the IPRD to supervise government advertisements.
  
  Bhagalpur municipal commissioner Avnish Kumar Singh has been posted as Lakhisarai DM replacing Sunil Kumar, who has been made additional secretary-cum-director of social security and disability.
  
  1990-batch IAS officer K K Pathak, who was removed from the post of excise and prohibition department’s principal secretary last year after a confrontation with the state government following recovery of liquor from the house of a JD (U) functionary, has been posted as principal secretary in the mines and geology department. His posting is being seen as a move to crack down against sand mafias.
  
  Principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani has been given additional charge of minority welfare department. Subhani has already been holding additional charges of two other departments.
  
  Cabinet coordination department principal secretary Brijesh Mehrotra has been given additional charge of the principal secretary to governor replacing ELSN Bala Prasad, who has been posted as commissioner (departmental inquiries) in general administration department.
  
  CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar has been given additional charge of building construction department, while CM’s secretary Atish Chandra has been given additional charge of IPRD secretary.
  
  Revenue board secretary Rajesh Kumar has been made new divisional commissioner of Bhagalpur. He has been asked to hold additional charge of Munger divisional commissioner till further order.
  
  Education department additional secretary Manish Kumar has been transferred to information technology department in similar capacity. Handloom and sericulture director Saket Kumar has been posted as additional secretary in building construction department.
  
  Additional mission director of   S Kumar Verma has been given additional charge of additional commissioner (GST) in commercial taxes department.
  
  Bhojpur DDC Inayat Khan has been posted as joint secretary in tourism department. She will also hold the additional charge of managing director of Bihar State Tourism Corporation.
  
  West Champaran DDC Rajesh Meena has been posted as managing director of Bihar State Water Board. Meena has also been given additional charge of chief executive officer of Patna Metropolitan Development Authority.
