Several students who took admission at   said they heard about the college through the tutorial where they had enrolled for coaching and opted for it due to the 'arrangement' between the two institutes. The system of colleges and coaching classes joining hands to offer an integrated learning space is popular among students in the science stream.But the education department is warning parents against it.

 For convenience and better time management with competitive exams in focus, students from the science stream opt for lesser known colleges and often attend classes only at the coaching centre. This however, is an unofficial arrangement between the college and the tutorial. “It is convenient for students and parents but nothing is on paper. Parents must not believe promises made by coaching classes and must research about the colleges they are applying to. When there is greater awareness among parents and students, such an incident will not be repeated,“ said B B Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
 At Pawar College, parents claimed students were assured they would have to attend classes only at the tutorials. “At the time of taking admission the college had assured us students won't have to attend college but when we wanted to withdraw admission, the college began to threaten us,“ said a parent.
 
 In December 2016, the state ordered one programme in a Kandivli college to be shut after a petition in the   by Maharashtra Class Owners' Association. “Students and parents must know integrated courses or offline admissions are illegal. College authorities are violating the rules by falsifying attendance records. It is heartening to see the government has acted,“ said Narendra Bhambwani, ex-president of the association.
 
 “We ask students to stick to the online process only so there is no problem for the students to appear for their board exams. We schedule classes before or after college hours,“ said Subhash Joshi, a class owner.
 
 “Some unpopular colleges tie up with coaching classes to fill up their own seats and this creates a mess of the system,“ said  , chairman, Pace Junior Science Colleges.
 
 Chavan said the education department would crack down on illegalities. “We do not receive complaints against such arrangements until the student faces a problem,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Parents must be vigilant about the antecedents of nondescript institutes that pass off as junior colleges. Given the sheer number of educational institutions in the city, it may be unrealistic to expect the government to carry out checks on each. So it is incumbent on families and their wards to do talk to students from previous batches or make discreet inquiries about the faculty.
 
