JALANDHAR: The joint action committee ( ) of the   has demanded a high-level and time-bound probe in the working of the transport department during the last 10 years. 

  It also sought inclusion of former transport minister in the probe, along with a retired Punjab transport service officer, who virtually ran the department for all these years.
 
 They maintained that even though large-scale plying of illegal buses had stopped and their revenue was increasing, now buses of a Congress leader had started plying illegally between   and Amritsar. 
 
 Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, leaders of the JAC claimed that other scams in   were still continuing despite change in the government and certain officers who used to work for the benefit of private bus operators were still enjoying key posts.
 
 They also named a general manager of the roadways, alleging that he played a crucial role in giving 712 minutes of public transport buses from their halts at the counters at Hoshiarpur bus stand to private buses of leaders of SAD-BJP regime and he was still posted at a bigger bus stand. 
 
 Action committee convener Surinder Singh said after their meeting with state transport secretary on March 14 they raised the issue of irregularities at the Jalandhar bus stand. 
 
 He said even though the irregularities were detected and reported during a special checking ordered by the secretary, no action had been taken. They demanded that every month new buses should be added to the existing fleet of 2,407 buses.
 
 Surinder and other leaders said a Punjab transport service officer was appointed by the state transport commissioner against rules by the previous regime and he tweaked the policies in a way that led to huge losses to the state exchequer and benefited private operators. 
 
 "After the probe not only legal action should be taken against him and other officers but also the losses should be recovered from them," they demanded. 
 
 They also said that in case the state government did not take action in this regard, they would resort to direct action.
 
 
