CHENNAI: When   and   Bangalore were busy playing the IPL-9 final last year - 'Whistle Podu' - the fan anthem of Chennai Super Kings was one of the top trends on social media sites. Despite the   franchise having no part to play in the season as they were serving a two-year suspension, the fact that their fans made their presence was a timely reminder of the popularity the team enjoys.

 A year on, the city will once again have to watch all the action from the sidelines. However, N  , India Cements vice-chairman and MD, vowed that the team would come back stronger in 2018. "If you are a CSK fan and are a cricket aficionado, you want to see   leading the side again in 2018. You want him to walk out wearing yellow. There is every possibility of that happening and next year we will be back with a bang. The absence from the competition has not affected the CSK brand at all," said Srinivasan, while speaking at the Madras Advertising Club Awards here on Friday.
 
 Srinivasan felt a lion's share of CSK's success was due to its iconic captain MS Dhoni. "The first true game-changing decision we made was to get   on board. The year was 2008 and he had just won the WorldT20 in 2007. His style of batting, the way he carried his team on his shoulders, CSK's performances in each season saw it achieving an iconic stature. More importantly, Dhoni embraced the city of Chennai and the fans were more than happy to oblige," Srinivasan said.
 
 The former BCCI president felt the team was unfairly targeted. "CSK was unfairly banned. You can accuse anyone of anything, but not a single CSK player was involved in anything. They just played. I think its pure jealousy. It's a tough world we live in," he said. The former ICC boss also revealed how he had bid for the Chennai franchise on the first place. "When the   was launched, a lot of discussion took place and I was the treasurer of BCCI at that time. We received a letter from the then chairman of IPL (Lalit Modi) asking whether India Cements would bid. I then wrote it to the then BCCI president Sharad Pawar asking if we can bid. I got a reply back from him saying there was no bar on India Cements to take the tender and bid for an IPL team. This was in writing from him and following all due processes, we went ahead," he said.
 
 Much like any T20 contest with its share of twists and turns, CSK too have seen it all, and it's just a matter of time before the 'Whistle Podu' chants resurface again.
 
