PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: On Saturday, it will be 39 years since the first local train ran on the Pune-Lonavla suburban railway route. Yet, to most commuters, the day largely serves to highlight the low frequency of trains.

 “The trains run at a frequency of 60-90 minutes and are usually jam-packed. The frequency must be at least 30-45 minutes,” said Sheetal Karnik, a Talegaon resident, who regularly commutes to Pimpri. 
 
 Rail commuter groups, such as Chinchwad Pravasi Sangh, have now pressed for increasing the frequency since trains are the most economical means of transport. “Now that the municipal polls are over in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, we will approach schools, colleges, housing societies, industrial associations, professionals and get their signatures for increasing the frequency of trains. The Sangh will also meet four MP’s from the Lok Sabha in Pune district. A combined proposal will be sent to railway minister Suresh Prabhu. All commuters will press to increase the frequency of   on March 11,” said Gulamali Bhaldar, president of the Chinchwad Pravasi Sangh. 
 
 Apart from the low frequency, train delays add to commuters’ woes. “Express trains are given priority over local trains. There are four tracks at Talegaon, Chinchwad, and Khadki stations. The local trains are stopped at these stations so that express trains can go ahead on priority. No announcements are made about the delays,” Vinay Shelke from Pimpri pointed out.
 
 Another passenger added, “Many commuters travel in the first class compartment. Commuters, who have purchased monthly and quarterly first class season passes, find it difficult to travel in these coaches,” another passenger said.
 
 Pimpri, Chinchwad, and Akurdi have undergone increased urbanisation. The population in the twin township is over 20 lakh. Increased residential colonies and commercial establishments have come up in Dehu Road and Talegaon. A large number of students, employees, industrial workers travel by the local trains and the poor frequency of trains leads to increased rush of passengers through the day.
 
 “A number of people from Pimpri Chinchwad, Dehu Road, and Talegaon have already opted for personal vehicles due to the low frequency of trains. PMPML buses are virtually non-existent in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and fringe areas. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been included in the   project. Mass transportation is most essential for any city. Quadrupling of the railway tracks on the Pune-Lonavla section must be done on priority. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad should give funds for the railway expansion,” Bhaldar said.
 
 Railway officials have said that the frequency can be increased if Pune division gets additional electrical multiple unit (EMU) rakes. Central Railway (CR) currently run 44 pairs of local trains.
 
 On condition of anonymity an official said, “The CR general manager has given an assurance that Pune division would get two to three rakes. Once they are delivered, the division would consider plying additional trains.” 
 
 Railway officials also clarified that the local trains’ punctuality rate is 95% while that of mail express trains is 93%. “We are working towards maintaining punctuality of both mail and express trains. Sometimes, the locals get delayed because of operational blocks. We are also in the process of starting DEMU trains between Pune and Daund,” the official stated. Earlier, officials had said that the frequency of local trains can be increased only if there is a third track.
 
