When there's motivation right in your family, losing weight gets much easier. Chan Vekaria, a mother herself, lost weight when driven by her daughter. In turn, she motivated her own mother to lose kilos and get fit. We got the mother and daughter to talk about this three-gen   on this  .

 
 
 
 
 I had been severely overweight since the age of 11 and all through my teens, but I gained much more weight after having my daughter, Kiran. I had tried to lose weight many times but the day I decided it was time to get serious about losing it was when I realised that I was unable to do things for my daughter such as take her to the park. All because I was too embarrassed about my weight.
  
 
  I have struggled with my weight since having my children. I saw how determined my daughter was with trying to lose weight and getting fit. This inspired me to do the same. 
 
  
 
 We both love cooking and experimenting with healthy ingredients. My mum is a fantastic cook, so I teach her about healthy ingredients such as quinoa, soya and various other sources of protein. She then works with me to create delicious new recipes. 
  
 
  My daughter has learnt so much about nutrition during her weight-loss journey, so she helps me keep on track by teaching me how to cook traditional Indian food and make it healthier and more nutritious by using alternative ingredients. 
  
 
 
  
 
 It definitely helps that my mum has a keen interest in health and fitness. She is currently in India where she has motivated so many of our family members to start cooking healthier by sharing our recipes. Some have started getting up earlier to cycle to work instead of taking their motorbikes. My 12-year-old daughter is also starting to take more interest in nutrition by ensuring she eats at least 5 pieces of fruit or vegetables a day and drink lots of water. It’s lovely to have three generations of my family all keen to stay fit and healthy.
  
 
 My daughter is my biggest motivator. Her determination to succeed and to teach others keep me focused on achieving my goal to live a healthier and fitter life. It is also very encouraging to see Chan’s daughter also taking an interest in what she eats.
 
 Many grandparents like to give their grandchildren sweets and chocolates but I am pleased that my grandchildren choose fruits instead. 
 
 
  
 
  The only secret is to stay determined. I have my daily goals written down, so they are always easily at hand for me to read and reinforce every morning. Motivation is the key ingredient to successful weight loss. I am lucky to have my mum and my daughter as my motivators. 
  
 
  There are no secrets. Losing weight, getting fit and staying that way is a lifestyle which we have chosen. When you have the knowledge of how exercise and healthy eating affects your body and mind and you start seeing changes in your health for the better, you never want to go back to eating the way you used to. 
  
 
 
  
 
  I’m a big fan of Desi street food, so I enjoy foods like chaats but we make them using healthy ingredients such as sprouted lentils, chickpeas, potatoes, onions and we add in some fruits such as pomegranate and grated apple. We also make samosas, which we bake rather than fry.
  
 
  Another one of our favourites is vada pav but we do not fry the vada, and we use wholemeal pav.
  
 
 
  
 
 I love working out with my mum and also my daughter. Despite our age difference, mum manages to keep up with most things I do. I recently did a 30-day squat challenge, which many people were following and participating in with me. It got very hard towards the end when the number of squats increased to over 200, but mum kept going with me. 
 
 My daughter also joins in with us occasionally, but now we dedicate Sundays to playing squash together. 
  
 
 We often exercise together which I enjoy. She sets workout plans up for me which I can follow when I exercise on my own. The plans are great because she changes them when she can see that I need to challenge myself more. The exercises are hard but it is very rewarding when she shows me my progress records and I can see how much my fitness has improved.
 
  
 
 When I first got serious about losing weight, I made a promise that if I was a success this time, I would do everything I could to teach others about the methods which worked for me. Fad diets and weight loss gimmicks are not sustainable. The only way to lose weight and keep it off is to do it naturally with changes that are sustainable and long term.
  
 My aim is to teach many more women that they can lose weight and get fit no matter where they are starting from or what age they are. I am in the process of publishing a vegetarian protein recipe book which explains why it is important for us to eat protein-rich foods, as well as explains 50 different protein rich recipes. 
  
 
  Since losing weight, I feel full of energy and my health is far better than it has been in years. I don’t feel the pain in my knees like I used to. I hope that I can continue to feel fitter and set a good example for other women my age as well as for my grandchildren.
 
