AURANGABAD: The   on Monday made another attempt to acquire land for road-widening between   and Baijipura, passing through Raja Bazaar and Jinsi.

 The authorities urged the property owners to either avail of transfer of developmental rights (TDR) or accept financial compensation as per the ready reckoner rates. However, it seems that many property owners are still not responding to the offer.
 
 Majority of the affected property owners have opted for TDR and are willing to vacate the land, but the   (AMC) is struggling with those who are demanding financial compensation. 
 
 Also, the compensation, offered by the municipal corporation, as per ready reckoner rates, is well below the prevailing market price.
 
 In order to widen the existing 10-12 meter road in the area, the municipal body is negotiating with about 65 property owners, of whom 18-20 want financial compensation.
 
  “We are willing to vacate the land but the municipal body should give us the rates as per market value. It is one of the main market areas and most of the occupants here are traders and shopkeepers. We just cannot give away our property at a throw away price,” said one of the affected property owners.
 
 However, mayor   told TOI that the matter would be resolved soon. 
 
 “I visited the spot and met some of the property owners. People in the area want development and better roads, for which they are ready to offer their private land,” he said.
 
 Ghadamode directed the municipal administration to speed up the process of land acquisition. However, sources in the AMC said that besides the ongoing tussle over land price, non-availability of funds is also causing delay.
 
 The civic body recently decided to construct roads on a total of 18 locations as proposed in the city’s development plan. The AMC has been encouraging all the affected private property owners to handover over the affected land and avail transfer of development rights (TDR) or take compensation against the affected land.
 
 The existing width of the roads in Jinsi is causing traffic snarls. As per the city’s development plan prepared in 2001, the authorities have proposed a 15-meter wide road for which they will have to acquire more than 350 properties.
 
