AURANGABAD: The Beed   has ordered a probe against its assistant   for cooking up the recovery and seizure of demonetised notes to the tune of Rs 95 lakhs.

 Beed superintendent of police G Sridhar told TOI, “The findings of the Aurangabad   are very serious in nature and we have asked the deputy superintendent of police Rajkumar Chaphekar to carry out a detailed probe against Chaklamba   chief and assistant police inspector Dilip Tejankar.”
 
 The officer said that the Beed police are awaiting the report on the findings by the Aurangabad police to get a clear picture on the whole issue.
 
 According to a police officer, a city trader was robbed of Rs 1 crore demonetised cash on February 21, following which head Constable Thapa of Aurangabad police was arrested along with five other suspects in the robbery case.
 
 Police sources said that Tejankar and Thapa knew each other well as both of them had worked together in Aurangabad, before Tejankar posted as an API in Beed.
 
 The crime branch registered a case of dacoity against the five suspects, including Thapa, on March 6 and arrested them. The other suspects are Shaikh Fazal Yusuf (24), Khan Zameer Jaleel (36), Shaikh Shezad alias Saddam Riyaz (24), Abdul Sajed alias Uncle (25) and Yogesh Gajanan Shette (34).
 
 The probe has found that 55-year-old trader Rajesh Thakkar was robbed of Rs 1 crore in scrapped notes, which the suspects had promised to exchange with legal currency at a 50% commission. One of the suspects, Zameer, however, fled with the cash in a car when Thakkar came with the money for the deal in the Central Naka area of Aurangabad on the night of February 21. Zameer then told Salim Stepney, a police informer, about it. Thakkar has claimed that the demonetised notes belonged to Hitesh Pujara, a private courier operator and the police are making all efforts to track him down.
 
 In the meanwhile, the six accused including head constable Veerbahadur Gurung alias Thapa, arrested by the city police, were produced before the local court on Saturday, following which their police custody has been extended by six days. Now the accused would remain in custody of the crime branch till March 16. 
 
 A senior crime branch officer said, “We want to know as to what were the accused planning to do with the demonetised notes.”
 
 Box:
 
 The crime branch of the city police has finally succeeded in tracking down the SUV owned by arrested head constable after it was used by Thapa for carrying the looted demonetised notes. The SUV was found abandoned sans number plate near the police library in Kranti Chowk police lines. Crime branch officer told TOI, “The seized SUV was originally owned by a marijuana trader from Sillod and was reportedly purchased in the name Salim Stepney. The records are being checked to know the ownership of the vehicle.” 
 
