Salem: Protests by students against the ban on   continued on the second day on Thursday in the city with blocking of roads and resorting to rail roko. The protests gained steam after the news of Prime Minister Narendra Modi refusing to intervene in the issue spread through social media and TV channels. 

 More than 5,000 students entered into Salem Town Railway station and blocked the way for Karaikkal-Bengaluru Express train when it stopped at the station for a while. The road traffic outside the station was also halted for nearly 30 minutes as the students staged sit-in protest on the road. 
 
 The Salem town police rushed to the spot and explained to the protesters that an ambulance was stuck in the traffic at Mulluwadi Gate area. The protesting students immediately withdrew their protest at Town Railway station. A few minutes later, the train headed to Bengaluru.
 
 In another incident, more than 2,000 blocked another train plying to Karaikkal from Bengaluru near Periyar over-bridge around 1.20pm. Some youths climbed atop rail engine and compartments. Similarly, a few students climbed atop an advertisement hoarding placed near the railway track.
 
 The traffic came to a standstill on Bretts Road, Cherry Road, G H Road and Mulluwadi Gate Road for more than an hour due to the protests by students.
 
 The Salem city police diverted all the vehicles to Anai Medu Road, Maravaneri Road and Four Road to clear the traffic. The students clearly stated that they will not withdraw their protest until the Supreme Court and the central government lifts the ban on jallikattu. After an hour, the railway gates were opened. However, the students did not allow the train to start its journey even after 8pm.
 
 Likewise, the students and public protested for jallikattu in various parts of the district including Attur, Edappadi, Mecheri and Tammampatti. In Tammampatti, where usually jallikattu will be conducted on Kaanum Pongal, shops were shut down to mark their support for  .
 
 Similarly, more than 10,000 students took part in the protest at the VOC Ground in Erode. Along with the students, their parents, relatives and neighbours also participated in the protest. One of the students, M Pavithra, suddenly fainted while protesting at the ground for the second day. She was rushed to the government hospital for treatment. Tension prevailed for a while at Mullamparappu near Erode, after protesters released seven huge ‘Kangeyam’ bulls which were brought for the temple puja. Later, the bull owners caught the bulls after police officials requested them.
 
 Similarly, more than 5,000 students protested in Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Krishnagiri districts on Thursday seeking to lift the ban on jallikattu.
 
 Due to students’ protests, train No.11064 Salem-Chennai Egmore Express has been diverted via Jolarpet, Katpadi, and Arakkonam. Similarly, train no 16855 Puducherry-Mangalore Express has been diverted via Jolarpet, Katpadi, Karur and Erode. The rail protest was still on at the time of going to press. 
 
 
