Hyderabad: It was completely by accident that the founders of this startup – Empower M Mobility Solutions -- stumbled upon the idea of creating a one-stop mobile solution to cater to medical emergencies.

 The agony of watching road accident victims suffer for want of medical attention (when one of the founders was travelling from Hyderabad to Warangal) triggered off the idea of  , an global emergency platform that brings together hospitals, ambulance providers, patients and doctors via a mobile app. The app not only enables users to hail an ambulance, but also tells the ambulance provider the victim’s exact location and shows the victim the nearest hospital. 
 
 It also automatically triggers an alert for a `First Responder’ (a person with basic training on handling emergencies registered on the app) to rush to the emergency site, alerts friends and family on the caller list and helps the user identify people with the right blood group from one’s phone list via `Bloody Friends’. “We want to go beyond just sending an ambulance, to actually changing the outcome of an emergency as the value of human life should be at an extraordinary level,” says co-founder Umashankar Kotturu. But it was an uphill drive till Call Ambulance happened. The journey began in 2012 after former Infoscions Jagadish Vishwanatham and Umashankar Kotturu decided to chuck their plush jobs to do something purposeful by pooling in Rs 50 lakh from their savings. 
 
 “We were clear we wanted to empower the masses through mobile technology and zeroed in on healthcare to reach out to the bottom of the pyramid (BoP),” points out co-founder Jagadish Vishwanatham. Having identified their niche, they started off from the Punjagutta office of a friend, who allowed them to use it for free, with a team of three members. Soon they developed an app – Doctrz – to provide doctors a platform to connect. But it proved to be a challenge as doctors failed to see the benefit of getting on board. The duo then decided to change tack and instead develop a patient’s app – Doctrz4U -- but even that did not take off.
 
 After the accident, Kotturu and Vishwanatham realized they needed to bring all emergency players on one platform. After brainstorming with doctors and hospitals in the city, they zeroed in on the gaps and opportunities and began adding apps to the Call Ambulance ecosystem to cater to each aspect of an emergency. By 2015, Call Ambulance was integrated with EMRI and rolled out. But soon another speed-breaker loomed large – convincing hospitals to get on board. But the tide began turning in their favour when patients began signing up. 
 
 Today, Call Ambulance, which is still in the pilot testing phase in Hyderabad but now accelerating, has emerged as a multi-lingual platform with six languages. It has grown to a 15-member team and operates out of a co-working space at Punjagutta. But the big hitch continues to be funding as the startup is yet to begin monetizing the app due to low volumes. Kotturu points out that once the patient base expands to around 1 lakh, they can begin charging ambulance operators (Rs 50 per patient) and hospitals (Rs 500 per patient). It is now looking for VCs and PEs to raise Series-A funding of around $5 million by September this year for the next phase of growth, which includes going pan-India and pilot testing in the US. By December 2017 Call Ambulance plans to expand to Vizag, Vijayawada and Bengaluru and get another 10 cities on to its system by next year. “We are also talking to universities in the US for collaboration. If we can do it in one US city we can demonstrate its effectiveness in the developing and developed world,” Kotturu adds.
 
 Going forward they want to add more features like an insurance link to enable the patient to inform the insurer in case of emergency and using the app to push targeted education material to patient based on their unique health requirement.
 
 
