"How should I dress my serial killer and what should be his choice of weapon?", one person asked and someone suggested, "If it’s a brutal murder, then why don’t you try an axe?" After a long pause, the first person said, "No, but I have to kill her with sophistication." This was a discussion on a murder plot between two people, the difference was that these were crime thriller authors who were planning a perfect crime for a novel, and not in real life. 

 When   Dalmia, and her husband, Akash, invited the participants of Noir Literature Festival at their home, the discussions and the ambience of the party was far from a regular get-together.
 
 
  
  Annamari, wife of the Hungarian ambassador
 
 
  
   , the Hungarian ambassador (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  In Sherlock mode: VN Dalmia (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Talking about the evening, Himani said, "I am not just an author, but I am also a crime thriller reader. So when I got to know about this literature festival, I wanted to invite every author for a get-together." She added, "The hunger for crime thrillers has sparked a new interest in crime literature festivals in India, and I hope more such festivals are organised."
 
 When VN Dalmia reached the venue, he was quite surprised to see the decor. He said, "I am amused to see this decoration, isn’t is interesting? I read books of different genres, but the crime thriller as a genre is definitely interesting." When asked which author he would want invite to his home, he said, "Frederick Forsyth. He is my favourite. I also like reading legal thrillers of John Grisham. He lives in Virginia from where I completed my college. Though, I never got a chance to meet him then."
 
 
  
  Evidence in custody:  
 
 
 
  
  Investigation in process:   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 The authors exchanged notes on how TV is using crime for TRP even in saas-bahu serials. Anish Sarkar, an author, said, "Crime thrillers are no longer solely the domain of die-hard thriller fans. Even TV serials on crime have appealed to people which might generate new interest in books too." But what inspires a crime thriller author? "Real life incidents," Anish replied. He said, "Newspapers are the fodder for crime writers. Everyday, there is so much you can pick from newspapers, so much material for research. Crime thriller is one genre which will grow in India."
 
  
   , Australian author(BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
   , the curator of Noir Festival, said, "It was the third edition of the festival and it was an attempt to reach beyond the usual networks. For me, the best part of the festival was that all authors attended each other’s sessions, which usually never happens at literature festivals."
 
  
  Mita Kapur, curator of the Noir Festival (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  Nilanjana Dalmia, Namita Gokhale and GN Dalmia
 
 
 
  
  Akash and Himani (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  Manju Kapur Dalmia
 
 
 
  
  Fehl Cannon, author (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
