Packaged with interesting competitions, power-packed performances and glamorous celebrity nights, college festival is the most awaited event of the year for collegians. While there is no dearth of entertainment at these annual fiestas, verbal spats and fights have also become an unfortunate reality. Keeping this aspect in mind, the management of Yeshwantrao Chavan College of Engineering ( ) has decided to tighten up   for its upcoming   — Yash— to ensure no nuisance is created on   during the festival. We give you the lowdown on this security saga… 
 
 
 
 Last year, during Yash, due to an ugly tussle between two groups of students, the fest end on a sad note. This has what compelled the college authorities to become extra cautious and beef up their fest’s security this year. Faculty in–charge of the fest Aniket Munshi says, “Once the students enter our college premises, their safety becomes our responsibility. Any kind of violence and nuisance created on campus can damage our institution’s reputation. So, right from keeping the fest theme as ‘Peace’ to improving our campus’ security, we are doing our best to ensure that our college festival this year is safe and goes glitch-free.”
 
 
 Updating on the security arrangements, 
 Munshi says, “We have increased the number of security guards at the entry gates. They, along with some student   will check the college IDs of all the participants. The DJs and other technicians will also be given a special identity card to enter the premises. In fact, the entire campus will be under CCTV surveillance; a team comprising of both students and teachers will monitor the happenings at the fest, live. There will be a hall management team comprising of senior students to ensure the decorum is maintained.”
 
 
 A special team is formed this year comprising of women faculty members and students to ensure girls’ safety. Ujwala Gawande who is heading the squad informs, “Volunteers will be in identical tees with college IDs so that girls reach them for help without any hassles. A few volunteers will be outside girls’ green rooms as well. All the events except the celeb night, will be wrapped up by 6pm. Also, there will be two separate enclosures made for girls and boys in the auditorium; we will deploy security guards in large numbers at the girls’ side to curb eve-teasing and molestation incidents.” 
 
