ZIRAKPUR: A   on the Chandigarh pattern is what legislator   promised to   during the TOI roundtable conference at the town’s municipal council office. He claimed to have made it the first town with digital payment of water, electricity, and property-tax bills, besides picture search to locate houses and shops.

 The electricity bill payment is online since 2015, and water bills and property tax have gone that way now. “GPS (global positioning system) location of each house is the most advanced feature of Zirakpur’s online public services,” the MLA said, “It helps us float tenders with accuracy and mark each house online. Click on the house number on the website and you get its picture along with the details of property tax, water bill etc. It will help us locate defaulters once the town is divided into sectors.”
 
 Zirakpur will have 16 sectors, as proposed in Sharma’s meeting last week with MC president Kulwinder Sohi and Dera Bassi MLA Narinder Kumar Sharma. “The plan took three years to finalise,” the Zirakpur legislator said. “The delay was because we had to include proportionate population in each sector. Now we have another problem—the state government has changed.”
 
 Sources in the MC said it was close to going on to fully computerised electricity system. It is also quite difficult to locate blocks and houses in Zirakpur. Real-time location on cell phones or computer, it is hoped, will make things easier for visitors. Each sector will be subdivided into blocks based on area and population. ZMC president   said: “We will install signs and maps all over Zirakpur to make it easier to find addresses.”
 
 The first phase will cover installation of these street signs and maps. Market area and the number of schools, coaching centres, and private clinics etc. will determine the sector size. The MC has widened the Lohgarh road from 20 feet to 60 feet and, once it awaits development grant to be able to start broadening other roads and give the public relief from the logjams.   said: “The town developed at extreme pace, and many areas could not be named. The map of each sector and the address of every house will be on Google, so that people can use GPS to reach their destination. If they can’t read the GPS, they can follow the maps and pointers.”
 
 Zirakpur is first town to start putting online location of every house along with picture in the state tenders. The contract for installing display signs and maps is out and the digitalisation work is expected to be over in two or three months. MLA NK Sharma said: “About 10 years ago, the population of Zirakpur was in thousands. Within a few years, it crossed 2.5 lakh. A construction spree began, farmers sold their land, private builders came in, and the town became a maze. It gave the administration little time to react. But we can no longer ignore town planning.”
 
 Quote:
 
 The plan took three years to finalise. The delay was because we had to include proportionate population in each sector. Now we have another problem—the state government has changed
 
 N K Sharma | Zirakpur legislator
 
 BOX:
 
 Also planned
 
 Every house on Google/GPS 
 
 Street signs and maps
 
 Sector size determined by amenities
 
 Blocks marked based on area/population
 
 Widening of roads
 
