PATNA: Preparations are afoot for the   celebrations and altogether 11 departments would exhibit their tableaux at the Republic Day programme at Gandhi Maidan, showcasing various social messages.   (BSBCL) would highlight liquor ban and the side effects of alcohol use. “Our tableau will showcase the de-addiction centres and control room. We will also highlight how those who have left liquor are happy in their family life,” BSBCL nodal officer   told TOI.

 The social welfare department tableau would focus on proper adoption process. Its nodal officer Poonam Sinha said many people had no idea of the right adoption process. social welfare department director Imamuddin Ahmad said once the tableau is showcased, people would know how to adopt an abandoned child. “This financial year, around 60 children have been adopted and we expect the number to rise next year,” he said.
 
 Education department’s tableau would tell people about the department’s one-month course ‘Chahak’, which has been tailored for those going to the school for the first time.   (BEPC) media coordinator  , who is also the nodal officer, said, “We figured out that students going to Anganwadi were not happy when directly introduced to syllabus and books. The same was the case with those who got admission in class 1. So, the department made one-month programme in which the newcomers would be given various toys to play games for a month. Through the tableau, we will showcase our newly tailored programme.”
 
 Industry department has named its tableau as ‘Start-up’ while ‘World heritage Nalanda’ is the theme of art, culture and youth department and that of Jeevika is on its contribution in promoting a clean, healthy and happy society. The cooperative department would showcase ‘Developed farmer-developed Bihar’ and that of health department would be on protecting girl child. Information and public relations department would have a tableau on public grievances redressal Act and Panchayati Raj department would focus on ‘Root of democracy lies in clean, healthy and transparent panchayat’.
 
 Eleven departments have got the nod from the cabinet secretariat on December 9 to develop a tableau under the supervision of development commissioner Shishir Sinha. Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said space for different departments had been identified and construction of tableaux would begin by January 17. He also said the work to remove the tent city from Gandhi Maidan was on a war footing and half of it was done. 
 
 
