NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON: PM   has urged the US to take a “reflective, balanced and far-sighted” perspective on the movement of skilled professionals, indicating India’s discomfort with the Trump administration’s 
  .

 The PM raised the issue during his 
  on Tuesday and he suggested that restrictions on professionals would be an unwelcome step. This is the first time that Modi’s concerns in this case have been made public and point to a divergence with one of President Donald Trump’s much-discussed campaign promises.
 
 
 
 
 The PM said 
  and were law-abiding and socially integrated residents, a statement that underlines that 
  where only the visitors benefit. 
 
 A PMO statement said Modi “shared his perspective on areas where both countries can work even more closely, including in facilitating greater people-to-people linkages that have over the years helped contribute to each other’s prosperity. In this context, the Prime Minister referred to the role of skilled Indian talent in enriching the American economy and society. He urged developing a reflective, balanced and far-sighted perspective on movement of skilled professionals”.
 
 As of now,   are granted a large number of the visas that allow residence in the US for six years. Indian businesses, particularly in the technology sector, are 
  by the sentiment that H1B visas are “abused” and often become a path to citizenship in the US. Some US commentators, however, feel the   sees companies, rather than the Indian government, responsible for such misuse, making differences more resolvable.
 
 The PM’s intervention came even as a high-level team under the aegis of Nasscom, the National Association of Software and Services Companies, arrived in Washington DC to lobby with the administration and Congress against a tighter visa regime for guest workers that is seen as adversely impacting India. The Nasscom delegation is armed with studies and talking points showing Indian companies having generated more than 4,00,000 jobs in the US.
 
 Modi has already had two conversations with Trump, he told the visiting US lawmakers, saying he was encouraged by the “shared commitment to further strengthen ties that have grown deeper in the last two and a half years”. It was significant that 
  during his visit in 2016 and 
  were well received.
 
 Last week, Modi met a group of British parliamentarians, where again visas, particularly for students and skilled persons, also formed a significant part of the conversation.
 
 During their visit from February 20-25, the American lawmakers, travelling in two groups, are scheduled to have a wide range of meetings with top government officials, politicians, members of think-tanks and non-governmental organisations.
 
 One group consists of 19 members while the second has eight. One of them is led by Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the powerful House judiciary committee, which is visiting India from February 20 to 23. The Republican leaders include Congressman George Holding, co-chair of the India Caucus, Jason Smit and Dave Trott. The Democrats include Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, Congressmen Hank Johnson, David Ciciline and Henry Cuellar.
 
 Indian professionals and students graduating from US universities 
  of the 65,000 plus 20,000 H1B visas and L1 intra-company transfer visas, helping generate nearly $ 100 billion — 65% of the country’s $155 billion annual revenues — from its infotech sector alone. That number will take a hit if Washington pares down the guest worker programme, as both the administration and Congress have indicated.
 
 Indian skilled professionals, many of whom became US permanent residents and citizens through the guest worker route, have founded scores of companies in America and generated tens of thousands of jobs and billions in revenues in the nearly 25 years since the guest worker programme began.
 
 The US president’s wife, 
  (as a model) before she became a permanent resident and citizen, as was Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, who called on Modi separately on Tuesday.
 
 
