PATNA: A home guard jawan and a youth were lynched in separate incidents during marriage ceremonies in Patna and  , respectively.

 One Anil Kumar (25), an ITI pass-out, was lynched at village Katauna under Khusrupur police station area in Patna district around 1am on Monday. Khusrupur SHO Mrityunjay Kumar said people attending the marriage ceremony of Sarvan Mistry’s sister Rakhi Kumari started thrashing a youth for his failure to start the generator set after the power cut.
 
 “Anil reached the spot with a few other villagers and tried to intervene, but he was beaten up with bricks and other blunt objects resulting in his death on the spot,” said Kumar, adding that Sarvan (45) and Nitish Kumar (24) were arrested after the incident. He said the three other accused were yet to be arrested. He said Anil’s father Vinod Yadav has lodged an FIR against five accused, including former mukhiya Janardan Singh.
 
 In another incident, home guard jawan Sushil Kumar Singh (40) was lynched at village Atapur under Hasanpur police station area in Samastipur district at 3am on Monday when he tried to prevent some people of a baraat party from thrashing his cousin Rajesh Kumar Singh (32).
 
 “All the five named accused were relatives of one Mintu Kumar Singh at whose residence they had reached to attend a marriage ceremony. The children of baraat and the village had some fight over dancing on the DJ. In the wee hours, some people of the baraat party picked up a fight with Rajesh. Sushil was returning home when he saw them fighting. When he intervened, the baraat people started thrashing Sushil,” said Hasanpur police station SHO Rajnish Kumar.
 
 He said Sushil was rushed to a primary health centre at Hasanpur but he could not survive. The SHO said the accused were yet to be arrested.
 
 Four cops injured: Four policemen were injured in stone-pelting by illegal liquor traders at Mithan village under Dhangai police station area of Bhojpur district on Monday night. 
 
 Jagdishpur DSP Dayashankar said constable Pramod Kumar, havildar Bhagwan Jha and chowkidars Raju Kumar and Ramsundar were injured in the stone-pelting and they were admitted in the Jagdishpur referral hospital. The DSP said six persons — Manoj Nat, Vinod Nat, Indrajit Ram, Surendra Ram and Sanjay Ram of Mithan village and Madan Bind of Dalipur — were arrested and an FIR has been lodged for obstructing policemen in their duty. The police team also destroyed 800 litres of country liquor and recovered 150 litres of mahua liquor in the raid.
 
 
