HYDERABAD: It's the story of a   to cheat death and give her parents a new lease of life.

 Meet unputdownable Osmania medico   Panda, who, despite being just in her mid-twenties, has not only been carrying upon her petite shoulders the responsibility of running the home after her father   developed a heart condition in December last year, but also healed both her ailing parents. And she achieved all this singlehandedly , armed with nothing but her never-say-die spirit to triumph against all odds. An alert medical student, Divya, who is pursuing her second year of MD (patho logy) from Osmania Medical College, was the first to sense something amiss with her father's heart and rushed him to hospital for a bypass last year.This was also the time Divya realized that her father's or ganic farm products business was not doing well.
 
 But no sooner had a father started getting back on the road to recovery , her mother's health deteriorated after she developed a heart condition in August this year as a fallout of her damaged kidneys.
 
 Divya's mother Aruna was suffering from end-stage renal disease for the past five years and was surviving on   thrice a week.
 
 Already struggling to meet dialysis expenses, Divya had been managing to keep the family afloat with some help from   and Telangana Chief Minister's Office. But with doctors advising her that there was no point in fixing her mother's heart without replacing one of her kidneys, Divya decided to donate hers to end her mother's suffering. Not to be cowed down by a funds crunch, she mobilized the power of the Internet with the help of her NRI friend Ritesh Reddy to crowd-fund her mother's kidney transplant via GoFundMe.
 
 Divya admitted her mother at the Asian Institute of Nephrology and Urology and got admitted as a donor. Last week, the kidney transplantation was successfully completed and both of them are back home recuperating.
 
 Friends of the Panda family are now showering praises on Divya saying that she is equivalent to a hundred sons.But the battle for the Panda family is far from over as heavy post-transplant costs loom ahead and all the family has to survive on is Divya's meagre stipend.
 
