CHENNAI: As passions rose on Marina beach, activists made common cause with protesting students, by quietly joining the pro-jallikattu protests. Edged out by parties in the state’s political arena, they did their bit to ensure that the massive show of dissent remained professionally conducted, well-coordinated and politically unaffiliated.

 Arappor Iyakkam general secretary M S Chandra Mohan played mentor, guiding the initial group of students on how to conduct a disciplined agitation and keep up the momentum. The left-wing   (DYFI) silently embedded itself to give a lesson or two in organisational tactics. Kovan’s Makkal Athigaram, which has college students from across the state as members of its students’ wing, entered the scene on Thursday with drums and folk songs.
 
 “On Tuesday, when the protest began, I got a call from students requesting me to help them. They were already peacefully conducting the protest. I spoke to them about how the government would try to break their protests,” said Chandra Mohan. “The students welcomed activists, who had no political motives and who were against the government.”
 
 By Friday morning, the Eelam and secessionist chant sought to sync with the ‘we want jallikattu’ slogan. Jostling for space under the spotlight, some youths held up cutouts of slain LTTE leader   and placards with secessionist slogans. With an orchestra providing the background score, some of them mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ridiculed chief minister O Panneerselvam and targeted AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala for failing to lift the ban on jallikattu. The Tamil Eelam cry was also heard.
 
 On Tuesday, there were only a handful of protesters. Driven to the Marina by television footage of the Alanganallur agitation in Madurai district, messages on social media, and plain curiosity, more people joined the protests. “Our area committee members in Chennai, some of whom are senior students, besides members of the SFI (affiliated to CPM), helped to bring in more protestors,” S Deepa, DYFI state treasurer told TOI.
 
 “Tamils have been betrayed time and again. This is their expression of anger,” said Kovan, who joined the protests along with a few hundred of his supporters. Leader of Naam Tamilar Katchi and Tamil film director Seeman said at least 3,000 students sympathetic to his cause were at the Marina from day one. “Many activist groups have a few hundred student supporters there. In future, the challenge would be for all of us to work harmoniously on issues,” he said.
 
 Opinions remain divided on whether the   is a spontaneous movement or one stirred by activists trying to prop up identity politics. The 2011   revolution is believed to have been triggered by an anonymous Facebook page of an Egyptian Google employee Wael Ghonim. While the Ghonim-triggered revolution failed to provide a democratic alternative in Egypt, in Chennai, the jallikattu carnival may face the challenge of sustaining itself if the organisers decide to continue despite the state passing an ordinance.
 
 
