CHENNAI: In a world of 140 characters and 2 minute videos, a two-hour performance may seem out of date but it is the forgotten undeniable old-world charm of a classical concert that Bharatanatyam dancer Aniruddha Knight wants to bring back through the Balasaraswati/Scripps concert series at   on Saturday.

 In its third edition which will feature a performance by  , Knight raises questions about the obsession with shorter formats. 
 
 “I think we don’t know if we want shorter concerts or longer ones and conform to what has been given to us. I think it is unfair, especially when we are dealing with an art form which demands time,” says Knight, grandson of the illustrious T Balasaraswati.
 
 As a performer he had realised that his time on stage was rushed and the art lost. “We have to go give time to the repertoire that demands it,” says Knight who started the initiative, dedicated to Padma Vibhushan T Balasaraswati and the Scripps family, patron of the legendary dancer. 
 
 The concerts are a celebration of the traditional margam while looking at it with renewed wonder. “Some may see the old format as pedantic and repetitive. This is because we have lost touch with it and do not see the finer nuances it offers,” says the dancer.
 
 At a time when the leisurely gait of the varnams is lost and there is hardly any scope for accompanists to do ‘raga alapana’, Knight with young dancers is taking one step at a time. For now, it is the revival of the jatiswara and the shabdams. 
 
 “Instead of creating something new we need to take a closer look at the older Bharatanatyam format, which has so much space and depth,” he says.
 
 K Shanmuga Sundaram is using the traditional margam format performing rare traditional shabdams and varnams. 
 
 “We are all losing touch with our culture and it is upon us to expose young people to the rich heritage. It is an exciting opportunity as an artist to perform on a stage which allows for artistic expression,” says Sundaram who has been performing for more than two decades. “The concert is a fitting tribute to greats like Balasaraswati and my teacher K J Sarasa,” he says.
 
 
