AJMER:   arrested eight people suspected of being involved in  . Police are also investigating if the gang was also involved in  ,   and other regions of the state. According to sources this gang would approach people telling them that they were looking for a woman with a height of 6'3" so that she could perform a puja and help them in getting hidden treasure. 

 According to police a group of people were found in Subhash Nagar region where they were asking for a woman of specific height. They wanted her to perform special prayers to help them find hidden treasure on their land. They also said that they would give Rs 25,000 to the woman along with ornaments that she would have to wear during the puja.
 
 Sources added that others too were attracted by this offer and began to help the group in finding such a woman. Police got to know about it. "We suspected something was wrong and therefore we were on the lookout for this gang. We arrested them from different areas," said Pramod Sharma, SHO of Subhash Nagar police station.
 
 Cops arrested Paras Gujjar of Bhilwara, Sita Rajput of Bijay Nagar, Laxmi Rajput and Manju Rajput of Ajmer, Rajender of Bhilwara, Mukesh Nayak and Ugma Teli of Shahpura and one more person. Police is now looking for one Shaitan Singh of Ajmer.
 
 During interrogation, police came to know that Shaitan Singh of Ajmer had told these people to find a woman of particular height, so that she can perform puja and help in finding buried treasure.
 
 Once they find someone matching their conditions the girl would be taken to one Maharaj Baba in Alwar where he would ask the woman to perform rituals and they would find hidden treasure. "It came up during interrogation that on an earlier occasion the gang did find a woman and she did perform puja, however, it could not be completed," added Sharma. 
 
 He said that now police is looking at the case to ascertain if they wanted to fleece money or were involved in human trafficking. He added that the story is unusual and therefore created doubts.
 
 
