While places like Mathura and Vrindavan celebrate   in the most unusual ways, Indore joins the bandwagon by organising an elaborate Holi   called  . Historic areas of the city like Rajbada, Malharganj and Sarafa, among others, witness over one lakh revellers gathering to partake in the traditional procession. Also called faag yatra, it sees people singing, dancing, feasting and smearing each other with  . Here’s a look at the history of the faag yatras and what one can expect this year.

 
 This   marks 20 years of gair being carried out in the city. Talking about the idea behind it, Aklavya Singh Gaud, one of the facilitators of the procession, reveals, “The tradition was started in 1997 to do away with the fear around playing Holi. The festival was branded as one where many untoward incidents take place after revelers lose their wits. Gair was started to make people step out of their homes and enjoy the festival without any fear.”
  
  
 
 Ladies take part in the procession with fervour and devotion, as the chariot of Radha-Krishna is drawn by them as a tradition. Aklavya Singh Gaud adds, “Women from various areas of the city attend the procession showing their devotion to lord Krishna. They can be seen pulling lord Krishna’s chariot and no men are allowed to enter this section of the procession.” Pranay Chittoda informs, “Over 300 volunteers look into the   with teams of 10 volunteers each deployed after every tableau. The district administration has beefed up security as well.” Harinarayan Chari Mishra, deputy inspector general of police, shares, “600 police personnel will be deployed at prominent areas where the procession will take place. Drone cameras will also be used to track the procession.” And collector P Narhari assures us that all the excess security will not spoil the festive atmosphere. “Security will be beefed up only to ensure safety and a hassle free celebration,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 The gair starts with a thunderous puja. Pranay Chittoda, another facilitator of the procession shares, “The preparation for the faag yatra takes place over a month. Natural colour from tesu ke phool (semal tree) is prepared and stored in a huge tanker. A young boy dressed as lord Krishna smears spectators with this colour while the procession is being carried out. Tableaux from various communities like Marathi Samaj Dal, Adivasi Dal from Jhabua and Bhajan Mandali from Iskon temple join the faag yatra.”
  
 
