NAGPUR: Some two months after losing their mother, the four 17-month-old   of  , which was electrocuted on January 13 on a farm, have settled into a routine of hunting nilgai, and taking care of each other. Generally, cubs feed off the kills made by their mother for two years, but these orphaned sub-adult cubs have started hunting together, and also feed a male sibling, which is a bit sluggish since birth.

 “These cubs are of the tigress electrocuted on a farm near Maharkund on the outskirts of Saleghat on January 13. We have identified and compared the camera trap pictures,” said senior forest officials.
 
 These cubs, who have come into their own very early, have drawn attention to the Saleghat range of Mansinghdeo Wildlife Sanctuary in the buffer of  , where they are sighted regularly.
 
 The four Saleghat cubs include two males and two females. Last year, the tigress was sometimes sighted with three cubs and sometimes with four. “So, tourists and guides felt there were two different tigresses. But this is impossible considering the low prey base and small sanctuary area of 49 sqkm. Though the adjoining 139sqkm Nagalwadi range is contiguous, there was only one tigress with four cubs,” said senior forest officials who are monitoring them.
 
 The officials told TOI that after the mother died, these cubs continuously moved in the same territory, perhaps looking for the mother. “Now, they are coming to terms with her absence and since January 13 these cubs have made at least 12 kills, most of them nilgais,” they said.
 
 Even guide Nilesh Paunipagar said the cubs are making regular kills, and all four cubs are seen regularly.
 
 Wildlife biologist Milind Pariwakam says tigresses invest a lot of resources into producing and raising cubs. Cubs growing up and settling into independent territories is the true hallmark of the success of any tigress. “Cubs stay with their mothers for up to two years, learning hunting and other behavioural skills, which are vital for survival in the wild. The two-year period is only an estimate, and has a lot of variability, as with all things in nature,” says Pariwakam.
 
 M Taha Uddin, a Std XII student who was lucky to sight the three cubs on a hunting trail recently, said all three were together. “I was told by the guide that they make a kill and also feed their weak male sibling too,” he added.
 
 The four orphaned cubs have drawn comparison to the ‘Gang of   Sisters’ of Tadoba, or for that matter four cubs of Chandi in Umred-Karhandla, who hunted together as sub-adult cubs and shared the kill. There are some other precedents for the Saleghat cubs, including Maya of Tadoba, Katrina of Bor, and Chandi of Umred-Karhandla, who all separated from their mothers as sub-adult cubs.
 
 The young Taha Uddin is fascinated by the cubs’ behaviour. “It is really interesting. If I get an opportunity I will certainly take up wildlife work,” he adds.
 
