THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Come to Attukal this annual festival season and one can have a glimpse of the first batch of female commandos in the state police force. Dressed in camouflage green and armed with assault rifles such as AK 47 and   (Indian Small Arms System), the women will be standing guard in and around the Attukal Devi Temple on the final two days of the annual festival, including the all-important   day. A platoon (30 personnel) of woman commandos, who are currently undergoing training in the   (KEPA) in Thrissur will arrive here by Thursday evening in this regard.

 According to the senior officers of the department, it was decided to deploy the woman commandos as Attukal Devi Temple is being branded as the   of Women.
 
 City police commissioner G Sparjan Kumar said that it was state police chief Loknath Behera, who mooted the idea.
 
 “We employ all available measures in Sabarimala for the security of the hill shrine as well as the devotees. Then why not use similar measures here,” said Sparjan Kumar.
 
 Range IG (Thiruvananthapuram) Manoj Abraham, who is leading the security arrangements in connection with the annual Pongala festival, said that the sole duty of the woman commandos will be to act only in cases of any extreme violence or sabotage attempts. Their actions and movements will be supervised by the senior officials sitting in the special control room set up near the temple.
 
 Another major initiative by the police is Pink Volunteers. It is an all-woman squad of 200 special officers recruited for assisting the policemen engaged in security duty. They will wear pink jackets and will assist the cops in providing all sorts of help to the devotees during the festival.
 
 The squad include woman traffic wardens, voluntarily retired officials from central forces such as CRPF. They were also given two days of training on the Attukal temple ground. IG Manoj Abraham distributed pink jackets to them in a ceremony held at   near Attukal Devi Temple on Wednesday evening.
 
 Besides this, the police also launched an Attukal Pongala helpline number, 7559099100, for the devotees on Wednesday.
 
