INDORE: It seems petty fines for   are no deterrent for the two-wheeler riders since the number of bikers without helmet has gone upto 66,000.

 More than 66, 310   have been issued against motorists, who were riding two-wheelers without helmet and jumped red lights. Even the strict vigil and regular drive to enforce traffic rules appear to have fallen flat. 
 
 The statistics available with traffic police suggests that around 1.25 lakh e-challans have been issued till now for red light jumping and other violations like riding without helmet, triple-ride, wrong registration plate, driving on wrong lanes and rash driving. The challans were issued in a year from January, 2016 to February, 2017, and this has generated revenue of over Rs.7 crore so far. 
 
 Of these 1.25 lakh challans, around 26,856 had either ignored to pay up or not received it at all. Around 12,418 had left their house or did not reside there, while 9,124 were found to have registered their vehicles with a wrong address. Similarly, around 3105 were not available to receive challans, and around 2209 had refused to accept it. 
 
 Traffic police authorities said that in such cases when a violator refuses to accept the challan or is not available to receive it, the matter is forwarded to local court, where the violator has to appear on a given date for hearing.
 
 Authorities have also been running special drives to check violations related to helmet, however the figures related to two-wheeler riders jumping red light without helmet indicates that the authorities have a long way to go to enforce the compulsory helmet rule. 
 
 “We have also shared a list of frequent violators with regional transport office (RTO) to initiate strict action against them,” said additional superintendent of police Pankaj Shrivastava.
 
 We have been running special drives to enforce the compulsory helmet rule. We would also request action against two-wheeler riders, who jumped red light without helmet, he added. 
 
 Under the intelligent traffic management system, the traffic police installed   detection (RLVD) and visual actualization cameras on around 28 busy locations of the city. This is a part of their plans to control increasing number of accidents in the city. 
 
 
