GHAZIABAD: Sleuths from the   conducted raids on the premises of two fuel pumps in Ghaziabad on Friday to determine sources of cash that was deposited in their respective bank accounts following  . 

 The fuel pumps, located at Lal Quan and Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area, had deposited large amounts of cash in demonetised 500 and 1,000-rupee currency notes between November 8 and December 3, 2016.
 
 Two other fuel pumps, located in Khatauli and Meerut in western UP, were raided by the IT department on Friday.
 
 “It is suspected that a major chunk of demonetised currency notes deposited in the banks was not part of the actual proceeds from fuel sale during the period. We are investigating whether the black money hoarders had used the bank accounts of these fuel pumps to deposit old currency notes. Account books are being tallied to ascertain whether the deposits made into the accounts were from the proceeds from actual sales,” a senior I-T official told TOI.
 
 The raids were conducted after the I-T department charted a list of   that had deposited cash in excess of Rs 1 crore through old currency notes during the period. Petrol pumps were culled from a cumulative list of bank accounts, into which cash deposits in excess of Rs 1 crore were made during the period from November 8 to December 31. The cumulative list was compiled by the Central Board of Direct Taxes.
 
 Following the announcement of demonetisation, petrol pumps had been allowed to accept old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes till December 15. However, in a new directive issued by the Union government on November 24, pumps were allowed to accept only Rs 500 notes until December 3 while barring acceptance of Rs 1,000 notes. On December 3, in another directive, the Union government barred pumps from accepting old Rs 500 notes as well.
 
 Sources in the -IT department told TOI that a number of other petrol pumps in the   were on the radar for abnormally high deposits in their accounts.
 
 “We expect the pumps to come clear on their sources of funds on their own. Otherwise, we will continue to conduct raids and seal their premises,” the official said.
 
 
