AHMEDABAD: The heart wrenching images of residential towers in Maninagar turning into heaps of rubble, burying families underneath in seconds during the 2001 earthquake cannot be erased from collective memories. The incident had exposed how faulty structures not designed to survive peak ground motions had succumbed to stress.

 Almost 15 years later, the   (ISR) has brought out a detailed earthquake micro-zonation map for Ahmedabad city. The map, which is a computer-aided tool packed with data, is now being promoted by   as an urban planning tool for civic bodies to ensure structurally safe buildings.
 
 Seismic micro-zones provide the measure of soil amplification factor (SAF). This value describes how the soil strata can amplify ground motion during an earthquake in a particular area. Using SAF, the crucial peak ground acceleration (PGA) is calculated that shows the damage a particular building can sustain during an earthquake at the soil surface. ISR has studied soil samples up to 80 meters depth at more than 250 locations in the city to prepare the map. 
 
 To this day, the   (AMC) town planning department passes building plans and issues   based on soil reports and old zoning maps submitted by structural engineers. Strangely, the same body had asked ISR to make a micro-zonation map for Sabarmati Riverfront. GIFT City and Dholera SIR authorities have used ISR micro-zonation maps to improve or suggest safe structural features in buildings. Assam government had asked ISR to reviewGuwahati city’s micro-zonation map, which will be used as an urban planning tool.
 
 “The micro-zonation map considers all aspects like geophysical, geological, seismological and geotechnical aspects while simulating an earthquake impact on a building. The PGA and knowledge of the spectral acceleration of the earthquake helps to design quake-resistant buildings. Soil reports by structural engineers do not suggest these,” said a senior ISR official. “Buildings fell in Ahmedabad because of the earthquake in Bhuj. Had the PGA been calculated for Ahmedabad, such faulty buildings would not have come up in the first place,” he added.
 
 
