JALANDHAR: Punjab local bodies minister   has announced to put officials of   on notice who didn’t collect water and   on quarterly basis in the last five years or so. He said the issue had come up as the outgoing SAD-BJP government made the officials to send notices to people for recovery of arrears in one go so that it could create trouble for the next government.

 “It was the responsibility of the officials to collect the bills on quarterly bills regularly but they failed to do it. I have directed the officials of my department to issue notices to such officers,” he said, while addressing a press conference here in which local Congress MLAs were also present and they also raised the issue and sought uniform policy on such matters across Punjab.
 
 Sidhu also said the MLAs would have authority for getting the municipal bodies audited so that ‘chor’ (thieves) who indulged in corruption and siphoned off money from public funds could be put in the dock. “It is imperative to encourage the honest and to put the corrupt in the dock and none can escape from audit,” he said.
 
 “We are setting tone for honesty in the working of the government. Our intentions are honest, and if honesty also reflects through policies then the government can plan for next 50 years,” he said. Sidhu said a board would be put up at every work site displaying information about time frame of the work and its specifications, name and contact details of the contractor and supervising officer. “This will ensure public audit of the development works,” he said.
 
 Sidhu said he was following the policy of giving facilities to the people first and then people would not mind paying taxes. “Moreover, I am proposing to differential rate of taxes and the proposal would be taken to the chief minister,” he said.
 
 He held that he had already formed a six-member committee, which included technocrats, to find out solutions for solid waste management plants. “We intend to think and plan beyond the lines on which these projects were earlier planned so that long term solutions could be worked out. Finance minister   Badal has already told me that bigger sites should be picked up for long-term planning and would clear the money for getting the land chunks,” he said.
 
