CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation plans to start mapping properties and utilities in the city with unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) by the end of September.

 Corporation officials said the civic body has obtained necessary permits from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the ministries of home and defence, the city police and other departments last month, for the use of drones.
 
 In June, TOI had reported that the corporation will utilise drones to geotag and map buildings in the city, in a bid to identify construction violations.
 
 A team of operators is likely to guide corporation staffers during the mapping process, as the corporation lacks expertise in handling drone equipment. “We hope to start by the end of this month and wind up the entire process by the end of the year,” an official said.
 
 The urgency to complete the process is tied to the fact that the corporation has submitted before the Madras high court that it will revise property tax rates by the end of November. The civic body intends to rationalise tax rates and make it uniform across 15 zones, or reflective of the particular zone’s civic infrastructural development.
 
 The civic body in June started the first phase of the project, which was a door-to-door survey as a pilot procedure in three wards. Ward 57 in  , ward 136 in Kodambakkam zone and ward 172 in   were chosen. As many as 25,237 assessees in the wards were covered during the drive.
 
 “The door-to-door survey was successful despite hiccups and instances of non-cooperation from residents. We have now started the process in the next three wards,” said an official. Accordingly, the corporation has begun surveying wards 54, 141 and 173. With surveying teams communicating to the assessees that violations will not put them in trouble, the public has been cooperative, sources said. “Finishing the data collection process is our priority. After the data is in our system, we will have time to evaluate and penalise violators,” a revenue official said.
 
 To expedite work, the corporation has doubled the number of surveying teams from 15 to 30. Upon completion in 200 wards, the corporation would have covered over 12 lakh assessees in the city limits.
 
 The corporation expects this process to benefit property tax collection mechanism in the long run. Citing examples of cities like Hyderabad and  , a senior official said, “In Chennai, we expect GIS mapping to increase tax revenue stream by up to Rs 500 crore. This figure can increase further, when the tax rates are revised and raised,” the official said.
 
 
