CUTTACK: The   has chalked out steps to make  , the epicentre of freedom struggle in the state, an attractive tourist spot. About Rs 50 lakh has been allocated by the tourism department for the ashram's beautification. The money will be spent on construction of an audio-visual room, a cafeteria and a park on the ashram premises. 

 Mahatma Gandhi stayed at the ashram for two days during his first visit to Cuttack in March 1921. He addressed a public meeting on the banks of   river on March 24, 1921. During his visit to Cuttack in December 1927, a spinning competition and a khadi exhibition was organized at the ashram. 
 
 Besides, authorities also have plans to construct a welcome arch at the entrance of the historic monument. "We have plans to showcase films and documentaries on our freedom fighters in the audio-visual room to make our youngsters aware of their heroism and contribution to the state," said district tourism officer  . 
 
 She said after completion of the construction work steps will be taken to prepare some documentary films on noted freedom fighters of the state. Landscaping of the ashram will be done and beautiful lights used to illuminate the structure to make it a perfect hangout zone in the evening. Ornamental plants and flowers will be planted on the ashram premises. 
 
 "Construction of audio-visual room has already started and we have plans to complete the project within the next three to four months," said Rath. The tourism officer said to make the ashram attractive memorabilia related to freedom fighters will be showcased.
 
 After lying neglected for years, Swaraj Ashram was restored by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), at a cost of Rs 30 lakh three years ago. 
 
 Swaraj Ashram was the hub of activities during the freedom struggle. It was the place where freedom fighters met and chalked out strategies for the struggle. 
 
 Many rare photographs of freedom fighters have been displayed in the ashram. Officials said the ashram was declared a protected monument in 1986. 
 
 
