Making little designs on wooden doors was the favourite pastime of Chithra E G, during her childhood in Kummanode in Ernakulam.

  Though she wasn’t one of those academically bright students with dreams to be an engineer or a doctor, she gradually became aware that her destiny was to be an artist. The yearning to be one motivated her to finish school and join RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, but what awaited her there was something she didn’t foresee.
 
 “I discovered a course in sculpting at the college and when I heard about it, curiosity got the better of me. I researched more about it and soon, I felt that this was my calling. I guess it was also because my dad was a carpenter and the knack to make art out of nothing was there in my blood,” recalls the 31-year-old. It was her first step towards becoming one of the few woman sculptors of Kerala. She is now a familiar name in the field with more than eight years of experience.
 
  Chithra, who has been part of many renowned shows and exhibitions both inside and outside Kerala, works in the medium of wood, stone, metal and more. “What I choose as the medium depends on the kind of sculpture that I am working on. It would tell me what best suits to portray the soul and strength of the creation, and I surrender to that,” she says. 
 
 Despite creating many sculptures, she finds it hard to name her favourite. “It would always be the project I would be working on. As of now, it is an 11-feet-long, mythological structure in stone. All of my heart and soul is in it and I feel it would be my best till date. Though it has the base of mythology, I would also be tweaking it a bit to suit my ideas,” she says. 
 
 Not everything is rosy in her world but the love for the craft drives her. “In my case, for instance, there is a lack of space to work or even store my sculptures. I work in a rented studio, and also keep some of them at my friends’ places. On and off, I have to shift studios and then, it’s a challenge to carry them all to the new location, without damage.” She also says that it’s difficult to procure quality material to work on in Kerala. “Many challenges do exist but I don’t let them bog me down.” 
 
 Chithra specialises in large sculptures. “I am just about five feet tall, but my works would often be around nine feet. When I finish them and stand among them, I feel an unmatched energy and that’s what motivates me,” she says. 
 
 Alongside sculpting and a bit of drawing, Chithra also does live performances based on the concept of body. One of her current shows is titled Human. “It’s a performance in which I go into a space, catch hold of someone’s hands and gaze into their eyes. There is no restriction as to how much time would be spend holding hands or looking into their eyes – it depends on the other person as well. Despite the silence between us, there would be tremendous give and take as this happens.”
 
 Interestingly, the other person involved will have no clue until she holds their hands. “Not everyone is receptive to this and sometimes, people even hug and kiss you back (laughs). The reactions are extreme. But they nourish me further as an artist.” In 2014 at the Kochi-Muziris Biennale, she had also staged a performance called Abreaction, in which she chopped off her hair at the centre of a crowd. “I was quite an introvert, till I did it. But after the show, I started feeling a rush of confidence. It changed me.”
 
 Chithra is also a guest lecturer at Kalady University and is married to painter K T Anandan. “Being a teacher can’t match the energy within a studio. What I love about it is that it gives me an opportunity to interact with next generation artists,” she signs off. 
 
 
