PANAJI: The   state unit said here on Tuesday that no political party in the state was involved in ‘beef politics’. Deputy speaker   told reporters that the beef ban issue would never come up in the state, as beef was a part of the culinary heritage of the minority community, which comprises 33% of the population. “Nobody talks about this (beef ban) type of politics in Goa,” he said.
 
  Questioned about RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s demand for a law banning cow slaughter across the country, Lobo said that such a ban has been there for many years now and was brought in when the Congress was in office. “Cow slaughter ban has always been there,” he said.
  
  While the slaughter of cow and its progeny is prohibited in most parts of India, the ban is not applicable in Kerala,  ,  , Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim.
  
  On   minister Vinod Palyekar’s statement calling for a ban on “rave” parties, Lobo maintained that as of now “rave” parties were not happening in the state. But he said as far as late night music parties were concerned, music was a part of the Goan culture. “If music is played (at parties) within restricted levels then there is no problem,” he said and added that there should be certain special zones across the state for such parties.
  
  On the sale of drugs in the state, Lobo said, “We have totally stopped the sale of drug in the Calangute constituency,” and added that the drug market can be stopped, but that depended on the capacity of the  , police inspectors and others. “We (BJP) have zero per cent tolerance to drugs and prostitution,” Lobo said, and maintained that Goa has the scope to become one of the best tourist destinations on the world if promoted as a family destination. Casinos, he said, were okay as sometimes family category tourists visited casinos to see what they were all about, and not necessarily to gamble.
  
  As for the need to control the movement of ‘lamanis’, Lobo said it was incorrect to call them lamanis and the correct way to refer to the community would be as schedule tribe. “We have to stop hawkers and vendors, and not lamanis,” he said.
  
  “If the sentiment of any tribe is hurt, I will tender an apology on behalf of the minister because we respect the lamanis. They have been in Goa for many years. I have spoken to tourism minister Manohar   and told him that it was a mistake on his part to use the word lamani instead of hawker,” he said.
  
  Azgaonkar had directed the police to take action against the lamanis who created nuisance on the beaches of Goa.
