MUMBAI: A year after a retired bank manager went missing from  , the police have found that he was murdered by his wife, her sister and her boyfriend as he suspected her of having an  . The trio murdered Prakash Wankhede in Ahmednagar, where they had gone to attend a family function. They poisoned his food, then hit him on his head with an iron rod, police said. His body was found on the highway but remained unidentified till recently.

 Police arrested Asha (56), her sister Vandana Thorve (40) and her boyfriend Nilesh Supekar (32) on Monday and handed them over to the Ahmednagar police.
 
 The case dates back to April 12, 2016. “Asha planned the murder as she was fed up with him as he suspected her of having an affair. They travelled to Ahmednagar on April 10 to attend a family function. The next day they executed the plan,” an officer said. “Wankhede’s hands and legs were bound by a nylon rope and they stuffed it in a gunny bag.” 
 
 “The body was taken in a SUV driven by Nilesh and dumped by the roadside near Parner. Motorists got suspicious and alerted the cops,” the officer added. 
 
 Two weeks after the murder, Asha lodged a missing complaint with the Charkop police. She said they returned to Charkop on April 12, 2016 but before they entered home, he said he had some urgent work and promised to return in 15 days. “I got worried when I failed to connect with him on the cellphone,” she said in her complaint. 
 
 Asha made another attempt to mislead the police by visiting the station again on May 31, when she claimed that Prakash had visited Vandana’s house in Ahmednagar. This made the police believe that Prakash was alive. “In between, we called the victim’s wife for questioning but she did not gave proper information. She narrated the same story to their sons when they asked about Prakash. The sons are married and settled at Mira Road, Bhayander and Navi Mumbai,” an officer said.
 
 Police claimed to have received some information saying Asha and Vandana were behaving strangely. “This came from an informant,’’ the officer added. A police team headed by deputy commissioner of police Vikram Deshmane kept a watch on her. On Sunday the police team picked her from Kandivli residence and during repeated questioning accused Asha confessed to the murder. 
 
 Accused Asha broke down when the police called her for questioning last week on Saturday. After committing the crime, the accused stayed at their Kandivli residence alone while her sons use to visit her frequently. “She confessed of killing her husband in Ahmednagar and planned the entire sequence so that the cops will be left clueless. Even the technical evidence (mobile network) sought found out that on the day when the accused returned back to Mumbai she was alone and her husband was not present with her,” said the investigators.
 
 The trio accused was produced before the Borivli Court on Monday and late evening the Parner police team got their transit remand. The trio will be produced before the   on Tuesday for getting their custody extended.
 
 
