Coimbatore: Nagarjuna Oil Corporation (NOCL), promoted jointly by the Hyderabad-based Nagarjuna Fertiliser Group (NFCL) (47% shareholding), and state-run TIDCO (Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation) (2%), has filed for bankruptcy under the ‘Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC)’. Other major shareholders in NOCL are Tata Sons (12%) Tata Petrodyne (12%) and Trafigura (19%),

 The company was in the process of setting up a 6 million tonne per annum petroleum refinery at Cuddalore. While the project work was at full swing and targeted for commissioning by mid-2012, the severe cyclonic storm “Thane” forced NOCL to evacuate nearly 5,000 construction workers on December 30, 2011 and work came to standstill. Though the refinery, which was nearly 60% complete, did not suffer any damage, utilities like oil tanks and marine jetty suffered damages. Since 2012, NOCL has been looking for a strategic investor to pump in fresh equity and revive the project.
 
 During the ‘Global Investors Meet 2015’, the Tamil Nadu government announced a liberal incentive package to the new investor—Netoil Singapore. However, since Netoil did not bring in the required funds even after almost two years, the unpaid vendors filed winding up cases in the Madras High Court, which were transferred to the newly formed National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai Bench, after the IBC came into force last year.
 
 In the latest hearing held on July 25, the Tamil Nadu government and TIDCO impleaded themselves as respondents and requested for three months time to be granted to NOCL to identify another strategic investor. However, since Netoil failed to remit the amount despite several extensions, the Chennai Bench of NCLT ordered the appointment of an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) under the IBC 2016, allowing the petition of Sulzer India, which is one of the vendors.
 
 The bench also accepted the IRP proposed by the vendor petitioner, who is a Chennai-based Company Secretary registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. As a result of this, recovery actions by lenders under SARFAESI Act etc. will be kept under abeyance, the board of directors of NOCL will be suspended and the management has to work under IRP. The IRP will have to follow a quick and transparent process to find a new investor, by an open bid. The IRP will also try to raise funds to keep the operations going until a resolution process is completed. It is one of the first issues the staff of NOCL would request the IRP to resolve, as salaries have not been paid for over two years and it would take a few more months to induct a new investor.
 
 The IBC gives 180 days to implement a resolution process and a one-time extension of 90 days. If no resolution is achieved even after 270 days (9 months), NCLT will appoint a liquidator to wind up the company, dispose off the assets and distribute the proceedings as laid down in IBC.
 
 However, NOCL management is confident that the bid process by IRP will identify a suitable investor as the refinery has a dispute free land bank of 2,500 acres, enough to expand up to 30 million tonnes annual capacity, and a petrochemical complex.
 
 Since the current demand – supply gap of petroleum products in Tamil Nadu is 6 million tons, the first phase production will be locally consumed fully. NOCL has an attractive incentive scheme under the ‘New Industrial Policy of TN’. As per this scheme, NOCL is bound to get not less than Rs 12,400 crore as VAT (value added taxes) refund as a soft loan to be repaid after 16 years. The current scenario of low global crude prices and profitable product prices in India make this an attractive investment. 
 
 
