AHMEDABAD: At a time when the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) has intensified efforts to eliminate mosquito-breeding sites under its ‘Malaria-free Gujarat by 2022’ campaign, more than 1,000 cases of malaria were reported from June 1 to July 8 at   in Ahmedabad alone. Sources said that in all the cases, the culprit bacteris was plasmodium vivax .

 So many malaria cases prior to monsoon is itself unusual but what has civic authorities worried is that most patients were cases of relapse of malaria infection. This indicates that treatment of these malaria cases in the city had been discontinued midway.
 
 Dr  , assistant entomologist, AMC, said that in summer, relapse of plasmodium vivax-induced infections often occur due to the evolutionary adaptation of the parasite. “The fever often occurs in people with low immunity but the main reason is incomplete treatment,” Dr Kohli said.
 
 He further said that once the fever symptoms subside, radical treatment through a drug known as primaquine is needed, which needs to be administered for 14 days. “This helps prevent a relapse. Howvever, the drug has a haemolytic side-effects and, therefore, cannot be given to infants and pregnant women,” Dr Kohli said. 
 
 AMC’s health experts indicate that the high relapse rate of plasmodium vivax-induced malaria infection is often because several general practitioners do not prescribe the medicine as a follow-up treatment. Government-run hospitals, however, are supposed to follow strict guidelines on this. 
 
 “Prescribing primaquine is in the guidelines and is strictly followed,” said Dr  , head of the department of medicine at civil hospital. “At least three or four malaria patients have been admitted every day for the past two weeks.”
 
 Private hospitals have also been reporting significant numbers of malaria infections, with many relapse occurrences. Medical practitioners also blame patients who often don’t complete the full 14-day medicine course.
 
 “Most patients have a tendency to stop medication once the symptoms disappear. One must understand there is a reason doctors prescribe medicines for a specific period. 
 
 Even as we prescribe primaquine, not all patients take the full 14-day course, which makes them vulnerable to relapses,” said Dr  , a critical care specialist at a private hospital.
 
