BENGALURU: Language activists on Sunday said they'd launch an aggressive campaign to seek a constitutional amendment to ensure equality among Indian  .

 The campaign will focus on urging the Centre to amend Part XVII of the Constitution so that regional languages are treated on a par with Hindi. The grouse is that the provisions of eight Articles (343 to 351), listed under Part XVII of the Constitution, have been written to promote Hindi as the administrative language and they do not talk about linguistic equality .
 
 "Regional languages will not survive unless there is constitutional support for them. The time has come to seek the constitutional amendment to protect our languages," said Senthil Nathan, secretary of   and Rights (CLEAR).
 
 Senthil was speaking at a seminar on Campaign for Language Equality , organized by Banvasi Balaga, a pro-Kannada organization whose campaign against alleged imposition of Hindi at Metro stations and trains had made headlines.
 
 Senthil said a nationallevel convention will be held in Bengaluru on February 21, 2018 on the occasion of Inter national Mother Language Day , where a draft language policy will be announced.About 44 languages from across the country will be represented in the convention.
 
 "We have chosen Bengaluru for the convention. This time it is   which has taken the lead in the fight to protect regional languages," said Senthil.
 
 He said the Metro campaign launched by pro-Kannada activists had caught national attention and triggered a sense of linguistic equality ."The Centre is trying to imposing the idea of one nation-one language-one culture. But India's strength is in its diversity.Hindi, at best, will divide the country ," said Anand G, president of Banavasi Balaga.
 
 Ultimatum to remove Hindi signage from Metro trains
 
 The Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) warned that it'll pull down Hindi signboards at Metro stations if the government doesn't ensure their removal. While Hindi has been removed from the main boards of Metro stations , a few signboards inside the stations still have Hindi. "Our members will see whether Hindi has been removed. If not, we'll tell the CM if the government cannot remove the signboards we will do it," said T A Narayana Gowda, president, KRV .
 
