NEW DELHI: The central security establishment and J&K police have begun to review security arrangements along the yatra route in the wake of Monday's attack, with the focus on securing even private vehicles that are not part of the official convoy. 

  The review was carried out through Tuesday at multiple levels, starting with the daily security meeting chaired by home minister Rajnath Singh here. J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and governor N N Vohra, who is also the chairman of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, reviewed arrangements separately. Later, a more detailed meeting was held in J&K, attended by Army brass, central and state forces and intelligence agencies. The reviews are said to have focused on three aspects: preventing a fallout of the Amarnath attack in the state and country; refurbishment of the security grid; and further additions needed to yatra logistics. "The   arrangements are under constant review, depending on gaps noticed from time to time. In view of yesterday's attack, we are working on ensuring that the compactness of the official convoy is not violated, also factoring in tourism-related interests of the yatris. The updated arrangements would be aimed at encouraging private vehicles to move with the official convoy," said an intelligenc e functionary. 
 
 Other things under review are whether the road opening party (ROP) should be retained for longer and night domination strengthened. "It needs to be seen if the ROP should be withdrawn a little later, minimising the chances of terrorists hitting at private vehicles travelling after 7.00-7.30pm," said an officer. 
 
  Monday's attack on the bus carrying pilgrims from Gujarat took place around 8.15pm, less than an hour after the ROP was withdrawn after the official convoy had gone through . 
 
 Though drones have been deployed to track possible terror suspects moving along the route, an official said they are more effective in the hilly terrain than in plains. “They may not help in capturing terrorists moving near or along the roads and highways in towns and cities. That said the drones may come in handy for the investigation by mapping the escape route of the terrorists, who were possibly four in number, with a set riding a motorcycle,” said the officer.
 
