MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister   has directed the district administration and police to maintain law and order during the  , which will be addressed by   Pinarayi Vijayan in Mangaluru on Saturday. 

 Rai, who is the minister for forest, environment and ecology, told reporters on Friday that he has directed the district administration and police to take stringent action against those who try to breach peace in the district during the rally. “Politically we may be from two different parties. But it is a fact that Pinarayi Vijayan is a democratically elected chief minister of a state. As a district in-charge minister, I condemn the statements of Sangh Parivar and BJP, who have called for a bandh against Kerala CM’s visit. Giving a bandh call is unconstitutional and the Supreme Court too has upheld it as illegal,” he said adding the district administration and the police will take all necessary precautions to ensure smooth conduct of the rally of the CPM.
 
 Rai said he has spoken to the KSRTC authorities and private bus owners to operate buses on all routes as I PUC students have examination. Meanwhile, veteran Congress leader   too pitched in to express his moral support to the rally to be addressed by Kerala CM. Poojary said the Sangh Parivar and BJP have been challenging the Supreme Court’s directives by giving bundh call. “Dishonouring Supreme Court’s directive is equal to dishonouring of the nation,” Poojary added. 
 
 Similarly, People’s Union for Civil Liberties – Karnataka president Mohammed Kabeer said that the Sangh Parivar and BJP have been trying to create communal tension in the district by calling a hartal during Pinarayi Vijayan’s visit. He also urged the police to take necessary action against those trying to destabilize the harmony in the district. 
 
 Karnataka Komu Souharda Vedike Udupi district president G Rajashekhar condemned the statements of Hindutva organisations that called a hartal opposing Pinarayi Vijayan’s visit.
 
