VARANASI: In his last rally in Rohaniya on Monday ,   appealed to  .Promising   and new pumps, he once again targeted Akhilesh government saying that rates were fixed if anyone has to get a job here. In the final rally before it was curtains on campaigning in the seventh and last phase of UP assembly elections, Modi said rates are fixed if anyone has to get a job in UP . 

 The Prime Minister was speaking at a rally in Khushipur area of Rohaniya assembly constituency . Mocking the prevalent system in UP , the PM claimed that if one has to get a government job in Uttar Pradesh he has to pay Rs 2 lakh. He cited the example of a girl, who during UP Public Service exam for PCS officers was declared failure in 2015 but when she demanded to see her answer sheet through an RTI application, it was found that she had cleared the exam. “But after having cleared the written exam, she did not qualify in the interview,“ said the PM and added that jobs were meant for only a select few because of rampant descrimination in recruitment.“This why Central government scrapped interview for Classes III and IV category employees' selection but state government didn't implement the decision,“ said Modi. In what was being see as his last-ditch effort to ensure votes for BJP and its alliance partners in the district a couple of days before polling on March 8--which happens to be International Women's Day--the PM said Centre had launched a scheme through which farmers can exchange their old water pumps with new ones without paying any charges.
 
 He went on to recount various schemes the government had offered in the past around three years, including Ujjwala LPG connection scheme and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bi ma Yojna. The PM said while other states had implemented the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojna, the Uttar Pradesh government did not implement the scheme.
 
 Targeting SP government on poor law and order, Modi on poor law and order, Modi slammed it for turning the police force into its personal fiefdom. Promisiing to fulfill at least two of his dreams by 2022, the PM said: “In 2022, I intend to fulfill every Indian's dream to own a house. My other dream is to double farmer earnings by 2022.“ Earlier, the PM praised Union minister of state for health Anupriya Patel, who had represented Rohaniya assembly constituency in 2012 before becoming a Lok Sabha member from Mirzapur in 2014.
 
 The PM left for New Delhi after spending three days in Varanasi. At Rohaniya assembly constituency , BJP candidate Surendra Narain Singh is facing a tough contest from Samajwadi Party's Mahendra Patel and BSP's Pramod Kumar Singh.
 
