She is Superstar Rajinikanth’s daughter and Dhanush’s sister-in-law, but Soundarya Rajnikanth considers that directing the latter in Velaiilla Pattathari 2 (VIP 2) was a huge responsibility rather than a safe bet. In an interview with Chennai Times, the director opens up on what made her direct VIP 2, what could have made   work, the buzz around her father’s and Kamal Haasan’s political entry and her two-year-old son, Ved’s reaction to her works. Excerpts: 

 
 
 Actually, VIP 2 chose me. And I’m very happy it did. My first film was done using motion-capture, a new technology. Before this film came to me, I was working on Nilavukku Enmel Ennadi Kobam (NEEK), a romcom with newcomers. But, for some reason, that didn’t take off. I strongly believe that a project has its own fate. One thing led to another. At that point,   sir was shooting for Kodi, and he had finished writing the first draft of VIP 2. So, the topic came up and I loved the script. When I spoke about it to Thanu uncle, he was more than happy, and that’s how this film happened.
 
 
 
 It happened both ways. At that point, what was I going to do was a topic that was still going on. I was not able to find the right cast for NEEK, and I wanted to decide quickly on what I needed to do next. When Dhanush sir trusted me with his script, I felt very encouraged and happy. Only after I gained confidence that I could do the film did I take on the project.
 
 
 
 Well, no. The thing is, Dhanush sir is a very creative person. He is a lyricist, a producer, a director... But I was given full freedom to create the world I was supposed to for this film. And on the floor, too, at no point did he make me feel like he was taking the decisions. I don’t think he gave me the feeling of being a shadow director. The visuals that you saw, I can proudly say, are all what has come from here (taps her head). I think all the actors who I worked with — Kani anna (Samuthirakani), Kajol ma’am, Vivekh sir — they are all seniors in the industry, but respected me as a director. I have to thank Thanu sir also, as I don’t think you can get a better producer than him.
 
 
 
 I don’t think any filmmaker can take a script for granted — as a safe project. In the past also, there have been sequel attempts which, just because they are a franchise, did not do well. Actually, I felt the opposite of what you say taking up a sequel of a film that was as successful. It wasn’t a safe bet; it was a huge responsibility. People loved Raghuvaran. It was my duty to give them the same Raghuvaran.
 
 
 
 I’m a huge Kajol fan and I don’t know why she hasn’t done a Tamil film in 20 years. When D sir and I were discussing the script and when her character of Vasundhara Parameshwaran was on paper, the first person who came to both our minds was Kajol ma’am. It was only after she was convinced about the story that she accepted to do the film. She brought Vasundhara to life. Vasundhara is a self-made, confident, independent, stylish woman, who believes in her values. So, she is strong in her thoughts and convictions. When someone like Raghuvaran comes and talks opposite to her, she kind of sticks to her beliefs. The Vasundhara we had in paper is now on screen because of Kajol ma’am.
 
 
 
 Actually, I’m very happy that people are still speaking of Mannan and Padayappa. Both these films are so strong in people’s minds that any male versus female clash means these two films, in our industry. This film falls under that genre, but I don’t think there is any shade of Neelambari or Vijayashanti ma’am’s character in Vasundhara.
 
 
 
 First of all, I feel blessed to have got a chance to direct Appa in my first film. And I’m very thankful to have directed Dhanush sir. He has done 34 films, and this is my first live-action film. I think there are advantages working with family because there is comfort level. But at the same time, you have restrictions when you come to the floor. You take certain things for granted with family, but that cannot be the case when it comes to work. In that way, Appa and Dhanush sir are perfect professionals. They just cut off the family factor once they are on the floor and see me only as a director.
 
 
 
 I think Dhanush sir is a natural performer and he has his own style. Every actor in any industry gets inspired by the legends in their own industries. They find inspiration from senior artistes. In that way, maybe... And D sir has said it himself that he is a big Appa fan. I wouldn’t say he imitates Appa; he has his own style and charisma and he is a brilliant actor.
 
 
 
 I don’t think we have replaced Ani. He is a brilliant musician and as a family, we are very proud of him. Both Dhanush sir and I felt that this film required a sound that could come from Sean. We have retained the signature tunes from VIP because they are important. Even Dhanush sir and Sean Roldan’s combination as a lyricist and music director was very successful in Pa Pandi.
 
 
 
 I’m very happy with the way the film has been received. Until now, the biggest hits of Sean have been his melodies. I think with this film, Sean will get into the dimension of being a very commercial music director.
 
 
 
 We were all aware, Sean more than anybody else. As a team, we are very confident of what we have done in Part 2, and I think once the film releases, people will understand why we chose Sean.
 
 
 
 Kochadaiiyaan was done with a lot of passion, and films like that take so much time and money. But I’m very proud of the fact that in the history of Indian cinema it will be the first film to use this technology from the first frame to the end. In hindsight, yes, I will do things differently today. We make film for audiences and one feedback I got from them was that Appa should have come in live-action somewhere — in one scene or at the end of the film. They kept waiting to see Appa live, but it was an animation film, so I was very consciously avoiding that live aspect. If I have to do Kochadaiiyaan today, I’ll definitely do it as a CG/VFX and live-action combination film.
 
 
 
 I’m extremely passionate about visual effects and it is amazing what Rajamouli sir has done with Bãhubali. I love period films. Recreating a world, either going back in time or forward, is something I love to do as a director. We ended Kochadiiyaan with Rana versus Sena. Let’s see. There’s an idea, and if God wants it so, at the right time, it will develop into a script. 
 
 
 
 Not really. I think all star children have to face this question — is it because of nepotism? But only talent and hard work last. If you are not talented enough and if people don’t accept your work, what’s the point who you are and where you come from? It’s not going to make any sense if you cannot prove your worth.
 
 
 
 We are a very close family and there is no topic that is taboo in our house. Whatever it is, we sit and discuss as a family, but I really don’t want to go into the question of dad and politics.
 
 
 
 Kamal sir and my father have been friends for ever. He is someone with a lot of conviction in his thinking. As a family, we all want him to be only peaceful and happy always.
 
 
 
 I have a two-year-old son. If I’m not shooting, I love spending time with my kid. I take him to school and back, be with him during his meal hours... I love being a mom. It is one of the greatest roles given to a woman and I’m enjoying being a mother.
 
 
 
 I did. I showed him glimpses of it and he was like, ‘Thatha’. I said, ‘Thank You, Ved,’ as if he is able to say it is his thatha, I’m very happy. He saw VIP 2 trailer and he said, ‘Perippa’. He is in that stage where he recognises family. He is growing up in a very healthy, happy atmosphere.
 
 
 
 Yes. Yathra himself has contributed to many views on YouTube. Yathra and Lingaa are big D sir fans and they just love watching their father on screen. Their feedback has been very good. Yathra keeps asking me about the story, but I’ve not told him anything yet, and have told him to wait and watch it on the big screen.
 
