GURUGRAM: Major irregularities have come to light in the land acquisition process for the Central Peripheral Road ( ).

 For the construction of the 3.2-km long central peripheral road,   (Huda) had acquired 102 acres of land and provided a compensation of Rs 700 crore to oustees. But now it has been found that the land acquired for the project has several high- tension electric towers all along the length of the proposed road. Shifting of these electric towers to clear way for the road will delay the project and escalate the proposed cost, according to officials.
 
 This revelation has raised questions over the way in which land was identified and acquired, and even compensation was paid without due diligence. “The presence of   tower on the land was not highlighted during the land acquisition process and it came to light only when Huda started planning the design and location of utilities like main carriageway, service road, sewerage and drainage along the proposed road,” said a source in the urban development department.
 
 The work on construction of the road, which was expected to start soon, now cannot be started till the high tension lines have been shifted. Huda held a meeting with the electricity department on Tuesday for relocating the HT lines.
 
 “Electricity department has demanded 30 metre of land along the proposed road for shifting of the HT line. We have acquired 90 metre wide land, if 30 meter is given to the electricity department then we will be left with just 60 metre which would not be sufficient for the construction of the road,” said Huda administrator  .
 
 “Maximum we can give 8.75 metre to the electricity department. We have requested them (electricity department) to think of ways in which less land will be required for shifting the HT line,” said Yadav. 
 
 Electricity department has communicated to Huda that they cannot shift the HT line in less than 23 meter of the land. “HSIIDC has land in that area, we will request them to give additional land requited for shifting of HT lines,” said Yadav. Even if all the issues are resolved and Huda manages to get additional land from HSIIDC, it will take several months. “So in all likelihood project will be delayed,” said an official.
 
 Following a request, Haryana ministry of road transport and highways has given the status of national highway to   in 2016. Later NHAI changed the alignment of the expressway and made CPR part of the expressway. Earlier CPR, which was a separate road, was supposed to connect Dwarka Expressway, NH-8, NPR and SPR. Now   will be connected to NH-8 through CPR.
 
 NHAI, which has issued notification on May 15, for acquisition of land for construction of Delhi portion of expressway, was supposed to start construction of remaining portion of the expressway in coming months. 
 
 
