PUNE: It seems rainbows have competition from thunderbolts these days. Not known to display a wide range of colours, unlike the many hues of a rainbow, thunderbolts are now preening in all their glory. Researchers from city-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Mumbai, Denmark and Netherlands have observed red and blue light discharges on top of thunderstorm clouds over the   from the  .

 The observation — captured in a video footage — is the first of its kind in India, said researchers who also plan to film similar occurrences of thunderstorms in Maharashtra.
 
 The scientists observed mysterious blue light blobs, red light as well as pulsating blue light discharges on top of thunderstorm clouds. The observations give a new perspective to electrical activity at the top of tropical thunderstorms, which possibly disturbs the chemistry of the stratosphere apart from impacting the earth’s radiation balance.
 
 The study, which was recently published in the American Geophysical Union’s journal ‘Geophysical Research Letters’, is a collaboration between scientists from the National Space Institute, Technical University of Denmark; European Space Research and Technology Centre, Netherlands; Danish Meteorological Institute, Denmark and IITM, Pune; Indian Institute of Geomagnetism, Mumbai, among others.
 
 IITM scientist Devendraa Siingh told TOI that the region of atmosphere where thunderbolt occurs is difficult to access experimentally, and knowledge of the processes taking place there is not completely known. “We recently recorded colour video footage of thunderstorms over the Bay of Bengal from the International Space Station. A variety of blue and red light discharges were observed at the top layer of cloud. The footage also showed a pulsating blue discharge fanning into the stratosphere and reaching as far as 40-km in altitude. These light emissions are related to the so-called blue jets, blue starters, and red sprites, which are transient luminous events over powerful thunderstorm cloud tops,” said Siingh.
 
 Siingh said the electric field developing from the top of the thunderstorm to ionosphere during lightning heats up the atoms and molecules present at that altitude, which then begin to emit a variety of colourful light. “To our knowledge, these images are the first of the pulsating discharges at the tops of storm clouds. They show the surprising variety of forms that electrical activity can take as we continue to discover new varieties of light discharges in and above thunderstorms,” said Siingh.
 
 “We are currently trying to understand the physics of these occurrences. This is a form of heat energy transferred into the atmosphere, so it may also have a climatic impact, which still needs to be understood. We are planning to capture similar footages of powerful thunderstorms from central Maharashtra to northeast Maharashtra — a belt which has the maximum possibility for such occurrences,” said Siingh.
 
 Scientists believe that such light discharges disturb the concentration of greenhouse gases, which leads to other occurrences such as the transport of water vapour to the stratosphere, the production of nitrogen oxides and the depletion of atmospheric ozone. However, further observations are needed to ascertain the global impact on the atmosphere caused by lightning.
 
