BENGALURU: As the dust is just settling on the four trees that have been transplanted by the residents through crowdfunding from  , more than 7,000 trees in Ramanagara are facing the threat. 

 The development of Harohalli III phase industrial area is likely to see plots being earmarked for an exclusive all-woman entrepreneur technology park. The   in March had sought environmental clearance from the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) for their combined Harohalli phase II & phase III industrial area project.
 
 The KIADB has presented an environmental impact assessment ( ) through the Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited, Hyderabad to the MoEF. “The land for phase II and III has just been identified; it is yet to be acquired by the KIADB. The areas are not demarcated at the ground level. At present, we can only tell about which tree species are going to be axed and the approximate number. The numbers are bound to vary depending on the final plans,” the report states.
 
 The EIA report states that as many as 11 species, numbering 7,650 trees, are in the list. The species include mahogany, teak, Indian elm and neem. The proposed site for phase III of the industrial area is located close to six forest reserves in the buffer zone. The endemic and threatened plants include Mysore sandalwood (Santalum album) and Broadleaf mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla). However, justifying the existence of Broadleaf mahogany as being widely grown as a timber tree, Ramky’s study has said there’s no potential threat and it will be grown in thousands in the greenbelt. 
 
 “Sandalwood, though endemic and vulnerable, is also widely cultivated. Most of the industrial units shall be encouraged to have at least a pair of sandalwood trees on their premises,” it adds.
 
 KIADB managing director Pankaj Kumar Pandey told TOI that the board will try to save as many trees as possible. “We have developed a full-scale project to increase the green cover. We have increased the buffer zone, and will add more greenery. Every district administration, which has a social forestry wing, has been asked to conduct an audit and plant trees wherever possible to compensate the loss of tree cover. The funds for planting and maintenance for up to three years will be provided by the KIADB,” Pandey said. 
 
  The KIADB has allocated Rs 20 to Rs 25 crore for afforestation and compensation wherever they are developing an industrial area, he added.
 
