PUNE: It was the coldest Holi morning in five years, but that did not stop revellers from making the most of this festival of colours. 

 Streets burst with hues of myriad colours as people spilled on to roads to smear one another with coloured powder.  ,  , began early on Monday morning with   and   negating the unusual nip in the air brought about by mercury dipping to 10.9 degrees C — quite unlike a March day.
 
 Bikers covered with colours zoomed past streets, whistling and hollering to usher in the festival, while troops of children armed with colours, water guns and balloons plodded block to block for a colourful time. 
 
 Several people took advantage of the long weekend and took off to nearby destinations. “The restriction on the use of water in the city had water babies travelling to nearby destinations where playing Holi with water was not an issue. Farmhouses and bungalows dotting destinations like Mahabaleshwar, Matheran and Lonavla as well as water parks around   were a huge draw this weekend. Some even went as far as Goa to enjoy Holi by the sea,” said Nilesh Bhansali of Travel Agents Association of Pune.
 
 Businessman Shrenik Karnawat celebrated the festival by heading off to a private bungalow in Bavdhan with his family and six friends. “We had the best Holi in years. We celebrated Holi in the outskirts of the city as we did not want water restrictions to douse the spirit of the festival. We played with water and organic colours. The private pool in the bungalow was a major attraction for children. The recycling plant at the bungalow also meant that we did not waste any water. Also, we had a Holi bonfire and ‘puja’ the night before Holi, followed by music and dance. So much fun would not have been possible in the city,” Karnawat said.
 
 Working professional Bhavana Mishra celebrated Holi at her native place Maniknagar, a small village in Karnataka. “I played Holi with my relatives and local villagers. I also attended a short play which was based on Holi. It’s an unforgettable experience which helped me bond with my roots,” she said.
 
 Others, meanwhile, skipped the fun in their societies and headed off to game parlours to make the most of the holiday. Arjun Arora, an event executive in Koregaon Park, said, “I went to play games at a game parlour in Pune Camp because I love video games. I took some colours with me to powder my friends who accompanied me to the parlour. We spent four hours playing games, which was a lot of fun.” 
 
 Working professional Aarohi Sharma decided to relax at home with her newly adopted pet turtle. “My work hours are crazy and Holi for me meant a day of relaxation. I recently adopted a turtle and decided to spend Holi with my new pet. Pets double up as amazing stress busters and I had one of the best Holis with my turtle. Besides, Holi was very nippy this year, so I opted for a festival spent indoors,” she said.
 
 
