KOZHIKODE:  ,   and managing director of the  , has refuted the charges levelled against him by  , the leader of the   module from Kerala. 

 In his two speeches uploaded on YouTube recently, Akbar also cautioned the Muslim youth against the machinations of the IS to lure them to the terrorist outfit by 'misquoting and misrepresenting' the holy texts.
 
 Abdulla had claimed that he was the head of the department of 'other cognitive areas' at the Peace School. He also said that Akbar was clandestinely pursuing the agenda of establishing Islamic Sharia in India.
 
 In a message sent via the 'Message to Kerala WhatsApp' group, Abdulla said Muslim scholars in Kerala, including Akbar, are afraid of openly speaking about jihad because they fear that they will be jailed. "As head of the department I was involved in framing the curriculum of Peace School. Akbar had told me his intention was to establish sharia law in India indirectly by producing more and more Muslim IAS and IPS officers," Abdulla said in the message.
 
 Abdulla added that organizations like Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM) would publicly say they are for secularism, but they are indirectly doing jihad. So is the case with Jamaat-e-Islami, which works for changing Indian Constitution to bring sharia law.
 
 In his reply, Akbar challenged the IS supporters for an open debate on concepts like jihad and hijra based on the texts of Islam. "Hundreds are working in Peace Schools and thousands of students study here. No one would say that such things are taught at the school," Akbar said.
 
 He said persons like Abdulla have not studied Islam properly and are entertaining distorted notions of jihad and hijra. Earlier IS men were trying to woo confused Muslim youth through writings in the blog, but now they are cleverly using other social media such as WhatsApp and Facebook to propagate their dangerous ideas. He asked Muslim youth not to entertain the messages coming through unknown accounts and exit from such mysterious groups that propagate twisted versions of Islam.
 
 Akbar reminded the Muslim scholars in Kerala that they have a responsibility to teach the community that the kind of Islam propagated by the IS has no relation with the religion taught by the Prophet and followed by eminent scholars for over 1,400 years.
 
 Akbar's intervention came at a time when the number of messages from the Malayali IS cadres in Afghanistan steadily increased in the last month and are widely circulated through the social media.
 
