Class 8 student of NPS Rajajinagar, who ran away after faring poorly in exams, denied permission to rejoin school; readmitted only after CWC intervened
 
 The  , and households, to accept that   is   on the younger lot, who are already buckling under the burden of perfection sought from them at every level. The Class 8 student, whose four-day solo train ordeal became national news in August last year, is a classic example. The girl had walked away from home disheartened for having scored low in a test. She was found after four days of frantic search, mercifully unharmed. But instead of counselling and helping the teen get back on her feet, her school humiliated her and refused to take her in for two whole months, claiming she had eloped with a boy.
 
 The   (CWC) had to intervene before the ‘righteous’ institution in question – National Public School (NPS), Rajajinagar – could be convinced to take her back. The CWC recently filed its report on the incident with the education ministry, and that’s how these shocking details have come to light.
 
 According to CWC Chairperson Anita Shiva Kumar, the NPS management acted in this manner based on false reports in some sections of the media.
 
 
 
 
 On August 24, 2016, the NPS student had gone missing after she left home in her schoolbus. After four days of non-stop hunt, she was traced by the Railway Protection Force in a train heading to Bengaluru from Mumbai, at the Hubballi Railway Station. The story of this Class 8 student’s ordeal had gone viral on the social media.
 
 After being found, she had explained how she had taken Rs 600 from her mother, cooking up an excuse, and had brought along a pair of old clothes to change into from her uniform. The moment she got down from the bus, she went to the Yeshwanthapur railway station and boarded a train to Mysuru. She took another train to Ahmedabad the same night. After reaching Ahmedabad, she enquired with the local train ticket examiner on how to get back to Bengaluru. A police officer recognised her as the missing girl and informed the contact number given. Eventually, with help from local relatives, she was rescued and brought back home.
 
 She had explained later how she had been distressed about scoring 18 out of 30 in a test and had decided to go away.
 
 
 
 
 According to CWC Chairperson Anita Shiva Kumar, it was a traumatic incident for the girl. “The stress of having underperformed affected her so much that she went away from home. This was the only reason she had. She even spoke about this to the media after being found. We took up a suo moto case and started looking into it. She wanted to become an IAS officer – this she told me at the time of counselling. But the way the school treated her, and that too based on a few media reports claiming she had eloped from home with a boy, shows the regressive mindsets of the school management,” she said.
 
 “She’s a young girl, and it’s shocking that instead of being on her side, counselling her, and making her a good student again, they shunned her, claiming other students will be affected. They did this to make other parents happy,” added Shiva Kumar.
 
 The CWC had then sent a notice to the school, asking for an explanation, which she said was initially ignored. Eventually, a representative from the school management came to meet the committee. Only after the CWC threatened to take action against the school did it relent and take the girl back, she said.
 
 “We counselled the girl and her parents. They explained how the teen was humiliated when they called them for a meeting at the school. When the girl said that she was depressed about the marks, but will now study well and realise her dream of becoming an IAS officer, the school representatives scoffed at her saying she will not become anything anymore,” said the CWC Chairperson.
 
 The CWC also pointed out how irresponsible reports in print and TV had affected a young girl’s life. “Without verifying facts, a few media reported on the incident. We summoned them too and fined them. The school took advantage of these reports to ostracise the child,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 
 When contacted, NPS Chairman KP Gopalkrishna defended the decision to keep the girl out, claiming “there are reasons behind it”. “There are many issues that I don’t want to speak [about]. We didn’t delay much to allow her into the school. We took time to allow her as that particular incident will affect the school and other students. There were media reports about her which made us take this decision,” he told BM.
 
 For all further questions asked, he only claimed that they had “reasons for doing what they did”, and also blamed the media for the mix-up.
 
