AHMEDABAD: The   that allegedly carried out the train blast in MP and the handlers of ISIS suspects, Waseem and Naeem Ramodiya, belong to the same group of terrorists, said sources in the  . The ISIS handlers have been operating through the internet. 

  On Tuesday night, Uttar Pradesh ATS gunned down Mohammed Saifullah, a native of Kanpur suspected to be the mastermind of the low-intensity blast in   at Jabri station in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 The blast was carried out by the Khorasan module of ISIS, the sources said. It was the first ever terror strike by the ISIS module. 
 
 Following the blast and subsequent killing of Mohammed Saifullah, central agencies have warned Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi of more terror strikes in the near future.
 
 A senior officer of Gujarat police said that the police and anti-terror agencies of the state had been put on high alert. “Defence forces have also swung into action and strengthened security along the Gujarat coastline. Security drills are being carried out jointly by different agencies along the coast,” said the police officer.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the Gujarat ATS said two police teams had been dispatched to Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to grill more than six suspects arrested for the explosion in the train. 
 
 “Those arrested include Amir alias Atif Mazhar, Ghouse Mohammed Khan, Hamza Khan, Danish Akhtar and Azhar Khalifa,” said a senior ATS officer. “Two others who were in the house where Saifullah was gunned down are on the run.” The officer further said that the Khorasan module consists of more than 20 suspects. “We cannot take chances and, therefore, have intensified our efforts to identify more such ISIS suspects in Gujarat,” the ATS officer said.
 
 He also said that ISIS handlers based in Syria are using the ID of one Shafi Armar, a native of Uttar Pradesh who had gone to fight for the ISIS about four years ago. 
 
 “Armar is believed to have been killed but his ID is being used to mislead Indian youths. One of the IDs to which Ramodiya brothers were directed by their ISIS handlers was also of Shafi Armar,” the ATS officer said.
 
 
