HYDERABAD: From outside nothing seemed amiss about the  , Chintal. But on Thursday , when   locks to enter the house after a tip-off, they unearthed a  .

  An unidentified man's hacked body parts were stuffed under the room's shelves and covered with a mix of cement and sand.
 
 The ghastly incident that probably took place four days ago, came to light on Thursday after a neighbour told police about foul smell emanating from the house.
 
 “We broke the lock and entered the house. Dried blood stains were visible on the floor, but no body parts could be seen immediately . We felt the stench emanating from under the shelves in the room. The area was newly plastered with mix of cement, small stones and sand. When we dug up the area, initially the head of a man and torso were found,“ assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Balanagar,   said.
 
 Police continued searching the room and found similar newly-plastered spaces under two adjacent shelves. “We found a thigh and hands in one pit. Another thigh and lower portion of the legs were found in the next pit. The parts were decomposed and covered in cement,“ Jeedimetla inspector C Shankar Reddy said on Thursday .
 
 Mahadev Gupta, the owner of the building in which the flat was located, gave out single apartments on rent to people. The gruesome incident unfolded in one of the flats that was rented out to two pharma company workers Vivek Vidur Jha, 27, and Bhuvan Kumar Jha, 31, both natives of Bihar.
 
 On Thursday morning, a neighbour of Vivek and Vidur, found a foul smell emanating from their flat and alerted Gupta, who in turn informed police. “Vivek and Vidur moved into the flat a year ago after informing Gupta that they were pharma company workers. The landlord did not know the name of their company ,“   said.
 
 During preliminary investigation, police found that the neighbours last saw Bhuvan leaving the house on Sunday morning. “We found some ID cards of the two and an Aadhaar card of one Pradhan. We have not yet identified the victim and four special teams were formed to identify the victim and arrest the culprits,“ deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Balanagar, Y Sai Sekhar said. “We shifted the body parts to Gandhi for post-mortem and the identity of the victim is yet to be established," the ACP said. Cops also found a hacksaw blade in the room. After speaking to people in the locality , police found out that Bhuvan and Vivek had been in the city since 2014 doing private jobs.
 
 While mobile phones of both Vivek and Bhuvan were found switched off, police traced Vivek's cell phone's last activity to a tower located at the Secunderabad railway station on Sunday . “The victim could be one of the two roommates or another person called Pradhan. And, anyone of them could be the culprit.We are analysing   footage of the Secunderabad railway station to zero in on the offender," a police source said.
 
