VADODARA: For the first time,   has prepared an admission manual for thousands of students who aspire to get admission in various faculties of the university. 

 The admission manual, which was uploaded online on the university’s official website – www.msubaroda.ac.in - on Monday ahead of the admission season, covers over 150 courses right from the certificate level to doctorate level that the faculties and colleges of the university offers. 
 
 “So far, candidates aspiring to take admissions at our university had to browse through the list of programmes and courses offered by individual faculties and colleges separately. We have prepared admission manual 2017-18 for the ease of students,” said   vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas. “It is one stop arrangement for students of all the streams who want to take admission whether it is in a certificate course, diploma course, an undergraduate or a post-graduate programme,” said professor P K Mehta. The manual not only provides details of each and every course offered by the university, its eligibility criteria, the admission process, their intake capacities but also explains the admission flow chart for the admission process that a candidate needs to follow. 
 
 This apart, details regarding facilities available at the campus, rules and regulations like anti-ragging norms, examination rules, fees for examination, rules of fees refund, fellowships and financial assistance to students offered to the university students have also been included in the admission manual. 
 
 The manual includes all the circulars and directives issued by Gujarat’s education department related to reservation criteria for the students falling in the scheduled caste, scheduled tribe,  , physically disabled and Kashmiri migrants criteria. “Once, a student goes through this admission manual, he or she will get an clear idea on what steps they need to follow and which faculty should be approached,” said Mehta. The university has already made online registration compulsory for admission in all the programmes since last couple of years. 
 
