NEW DELHI: The housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday introduced amendments to the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property (RAIP) Act in the  , which will help the government save crores of rupees in compensation linked to disputes involving land acquired for defence purposes in the past.

 The amendment proposes that the government will pay the compensation as per the old rate as applicable when land was originally acquired along with interest, irrespective of any court order. Also, the law will have retrospective effect from March 14, 1952. The original law was enacted to empower the Central government to acquire land.
 
 The amendments have been triggered by a   judgment of 2014, which quashed the acquisition of 296 acre land in Jodhpur for defence purposes. It was acquired from Maharaja Hari Singh Charitable Trust in 1993. The defence ministry had earlier told the government that in this case itself, the amendment may help the government save Rs 8,000 crore in compensation.
 
 At present, the   is operating two sensitive units on this land and has 1,100 accommodations for officers and jawans. According to defence ministry estimates, it has created assets worth Rs 800 crore on the land and the cost of acquisition of land would be Rs 900 crore.
 
 The directorate general of defence estates had informed the government that 433 litigations arising out of land acquired under the RAIP Act were pending in various courts across the country.
 
 So far as the land of Maharaja Hari Singh Charitable Trust is concerned, it was acquired under the RAIP Act in 1993. But the Trust had challenged the order in   high court on the ground that the collector held no personal hearing. In 2003, the HC quashed the acquisition order and ordered a personal hearing to the Trust. The government challenged the order before a division bench, which quashed it.
 
 But the Trust challenged the HC order in the SC and in 2014, the apex court restored the order of the single bench of the HC and struck down the acquisition order. According to the present law, the government would have to pay compensation to the Trust at current rate, though the land was acquired 24 years back.
 
