NEW DELHI: More than 7,000 tonnes of garbage had accumulated across   by Saturday, the second day of the strike called by sanitation workers over pending salaries.
 
 With streets quickly filling up and the stench stretching over kilometres, the threat of an outbreak of disease is looming larger by the day.
  
 City urban development minister Satyendar Jain said the government was working out the modalities to provide funds to the East Delhi Municipal Corporation.
  
 The corporation commissioner, however, issued orders for private operators to clear the mess: 43 trucks are expected to remove garbage from Sunday morning.
  
 "Around 30 trucks will be deployed in areas under Shahdara north zone and 13 will be deployed in Shahdara south zone to lift garbage," said an official.
  
 A large part of Laxmi Nagar is covered with garbage which is leading to traffic jams. "This has been happening for the past two years now," said Jasjit Singh, a resident of Laxmi Nagar. "After every few months, safai karamcharis are forced to go on strike. The government and corporation find a way out before the situation gets out of hand. It is difficult to even sit indoors now."
  
 
 
  
 The safai karamchari unions are not willing to call off their strike and we need to take the load off the roads," said a senior corporation official. "The corporation (EDMC) is busy collecting bribes and is not generating revenue from the resources it has. I don't know where they spend the money we give them," said Jain. 
  
 He, however, assured swift action on the crisis. "We will definitely do something for the salaries of the staff. But we will give money for salary and nothing else." Lieutenant governor  's office too is learned to be tracking the developments to ensure a resolution of the problem.
  
 Several EDMC employees, including doctors and from the education department, have not been paid for months now. The latter have threatened to join the strike from mid-January.
  
 The BJP-ruled east corporation says trifurcation is the root cause of all problems and blames the AAP-led Delhi government for not implementing the   report.
  
 "Had the fourth finance commission report been implemented, we would have got Rs 4,928 crore which is due from 2012 but the government has failed to implement the report. This would have solved all of our problems," said Satya Sharma, mayor of East Corporation.
  
 Sanjay Gehlot, president of   said, "Whenever we approach the corporation, they pass the buck to the Delhi government and the government remains a mute spectator. 
  
 As a result, the workers are suffering. We haven't received our salaries for the past two months. We are not able to pay school fees of our children, we have to pay our bills and house rent.
  
 Where is the money going to come from?"  , a safai karamchari, who works in Shakurpur area, said: "At times, when we ask our relatives for money, they refuse to lend. We don't have that much of savings that will help us survive 2-3 months without salary. We are not going to resume work until we get our salaries."
  
 Major areas like Geeta Colony, Laxmi Nagar, Krishna Nagar and Nirman Vihar are the worst affected. Just besides EDMC's dispensary in Geeta colony, chaos can be seen.
  
 A similar condition is visible at Vikas Marg near the Laxmi Nagar metro station.
  
 Tons of garbage has clustered right in front of a Nursing and Maternity home, which may have an adverse effect to the patients. "We all have our shops here and we can't shut it down. But the stench is so strong it is really difficult to sit whole day," said Rajendra Kumar, a chemist shop worker.
  
 Vibha Singh, member of teachers association of EDMC municipal primary schools, said that they would wait till the school re-opens and if situation did not get better, then even they would join the strike. "We haven't received our salaries from October. Right now, schools are closed and it will re-open from January 16. If situation is not under control then even teachers might join the strike," said Singh.
 
