THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran has stepped up his attack against Kerala Congress (M) and a section of CPM leadership by launching staunch criticism against K M   and his party during a public function on Thursday night and a news conference at Kollam on Friday. 

 Kanam, while inaugurating the concluding rally of annual red volunteer camp at Kulakkada, near Kottarakkara, on Thursday had said the thought that K M Mani's entry would add to the strength of the front emanated from some 'complex'. In a sarcastic tone, he said the people of Kerala would never believe all the   leaders were affected by Alzhiemer's disease.
 
 Referring to the recent criticism by KC (M) that the CPI was afraid at the entry of KC(M) to the LDF, Kanam said everyone who knew simple Mathematics would know 19 is a bigger number than six. "They have six MLAs. We don't know how many of them will stay if they decides to move. But, we can take six. Even in that case, 19 is a much bigger number than six", he said. CPI has 19 MLAs in the assembly while KC (M) has six MLAs. Of the six, P   and Mons Joseph have openly expressed dissent over the tie up between KC (M) and CPI in Kottayam district panchayat president election. 
 
 While addressing a news conference at Kollam on Friday, Kanam Rajendran repeated the arguments. He said the people wouldn't forget the protest and allegations levelled against Mani by the LDF when he was part of the  . The CPI leader, who has been on a collision course with the CPM, also defended sub collector  's action at Pappathichola. "Imposition of prohibitory order comes well within the powers of district collector. There is nothing wrong in the collector imposing section 144", he said when pointed out chief minister's reply in the assembly on Friday that the imposition of prohibitory order at Munnar was wrong. "The collector has the right to impose the order. If the government feels it is wrong, they can correct the collector", he said to a query.
 
