PUNE:   School stood second in the Asian Regional Space Settlement Design Competition organized by Atlantis recently. 

 Fifty teams, including India, China, Pakistan and Philippines, participated in the semi-finals. Vidya Valley was among the top 25 teams.
 
 Participant teams were tasked with planning, researching and presenting a space colony project proposal in 24 hours. The students were guided by principal Nalini Sengupta and the Space and Ccience Club coordinator,  .
 
 City Pride aces cyber tie
 
 City Pride School won the Cyber Champ 2017 organized by the school. Army State School, Dighi, was awarded the most promising participating school trophy.
 
 A total of 33 schools and 830 students from Baramati, Mumbai and Pune participated in the event on the theme ‘Digital India’.
 
 Standard V and VI students made presentations on wallet and e-wallet. Standard VII and VIII students presented innovative concepts on how technology will aid in developing a cashless India.
 
 A total of 45 groups of students from Standard IX and X developed a website for their school. An information technology quiz was also conducted for the students. All judges for the competitions were from Persistent Systems.
 
 Directors   and Deepali Sawai, principal Maya Sawant, Vivek Mohile, consultant ISV and emerging verticals were present at the prize distribution ceremony held recently.
 
 Sikkim meets Maharashtra 
 
 As many as 21 students from Sikkim visited Vidya Pratishthan’s New Bal Vikas Mandir, Pimpli, recently to study the education system in Maharashtra as a part of a cultural exchange programme. Rushika Ghorpade from Standard III, a record holder in the Limca Book of Records, demonstrated her skill in limbo skating by passing under an SUV. Students were explained the weather station, science park and solar park with various models and instruments developed by the school for hands-on learning.
 
 A gymnastics display was and a comparative overview about Maharashtra and Sikkim were presented by students.Each visitor was presented a memento. A friendly tug-of-war was held between the students from Sikkim and the hosts.
 
 Science exhibition
 
  recently organized an informative exhibition. It was inaugurated by MRG Sayyed, associate professor at Poona College. Also present at the event were director Vijay Pillai and principals Dayavathi Pillai and Prabhavathi Pillai.
 
 Students displayed working models of smart city, Paytm, 3D hologram, oil extractor, water level indicator, smoke detector and vacuum cleaner at the exhibition.
 
