KOCHI: At a time when   (KMRL) is actively involved in the process of integrating various modes of public transport in the city, the demand to provide Metro connectivity to   (Cial) at   gains momentum. The local bodies in the area, including Angamaly municipality look forward to the arrival of   in their area.

 “KMRL had conducted a survey within the limits of the municipality for extending the Metro. But, we haven't received any communication regarding land requirement or land acquisition for extension,“ said Angamaly municipal chairperson MA Gracy .
 
 She said they were expecting the Metro to reach Angamaly as part of the third phase extension works.
 
 Nedumbassery panchayat vice-president PC Somasekharan said the construction of new international terminal (T3) at Cial was over. He said providing Metro connectivity to the airport would improve transportation facilities in the region. “Both KMRL and Cial have to take the initiative to connect Metro with the airport. Local communities have always supported such projects,“ he said. Meanwhile, officials with Cial said they were in favour of extending Kochi Metro to the airport. A senior official said that though they approached government for extending Metro Cial in the second phase. However, it was decided that Metro would be linked with airport in the third phase.
 
 The official pointed out that the low-floor ac buses connecting the city and airport was a success. “Similarly , the Metro will be beneficial to tourists visiting the city ,“ he said adding that the various analysis made on aviation industry indicated that the domestic market would grow in future. This will re sult in increased passenger systems.
 
 While designing the road linking national highway and airport, Cial has included the concept of Metro connectivity .
 
 “The central gap or median of the road is designed taking into consideration the need for extending Metro,“ said the Cial official. He said Cial has held talks with KMRL about these aspects.
 
 Regarding the Metro route, the official said KMRL would decide whether the Metro would terminate at the airport or to provide a loop to Cial from the Metro line linking Aluva and Angamaly through the highway .
 
