GREATER NOIDA: A 52-year-old woman died while another was injured when a speeding truck rammed into them in   village on Tuesday.

 The women were returning home from a nearby field across the road on Tuesday morning when the accident took place on Jewar-Jhajhar road. Kamlesh (52) and  , who is also in her fifties, were thrown off the road from the impact. Locals rushed them to Kailash Hospital, Jewar, where Kamlesh was declared brought dead. Ramvati suffered a fractured jaw and injuries on her legs and hands.
 
 Kamlesh had no toilet at home. Although Ramvati had one, she didn’t use it, and used to go with Kamlesh to the fields every morning. 
 
  
  Kamlesh’s husband Bhagwat Prasad said his wife left the house around 4.30 am for defecation. “ When they were crossing the road while returning home, a speeding truck into rammed them from behind,” he said. 
 
 Bhagwat said he rushed to the spot of the accident as soon as he came to know about it and dialed 100, but police took an hour to reach there. 
 
 While Kamlesh was declared dead on arrival, Ramvati suffered a fractured jaw and injuries on her legs, hands and back. 
 
 Ramvati’s husband Shiv Lal said there was a toilet in the house but his wife did not use it. “She used to go to the fields with other women. We never thought this would happen to her,” he said. 
 
 Kishorpur is home to around 500 families, but 80% of them do not have toilets. Locals said they do not have the money to build toilets. Angry residents blocked the road and protested for two hours later on Tuesday, demanding the arrest of the accused. Senior police and district administration officials reached the spot and pacified the protesters.
 
 Jewar police station SHO Rajpal Tomar said an FIR has been filed against the unidentified accused under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence), 337 (causing hurt) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life) of IPC. “We are trying to identify and arrest the criminals,” he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, district magistrate B N Singh said, “This is a serious issue. The officials concerned have been directed to visit the spot and examine the matter. We have decided to make the district Open Defection Free (ODF) by December 31, 2017. We will ask the officials to identify houses without toilets in Kishorpur village and help each of them get toilets.” 
 
 
