NAGPUR: Even in the face of political pressure from a particular community, the standing committee of   (NMC) has ordered the suspension of health officer Dr   for causing loss of crores. Although the scam was unearthed in 2016, it took NMC around a year to act against Ganvir, who is only three months away from retirement.

 In 2008, Ganvir had changed the agreement conditions of NMC’s garbage operator  , without taking permission from standing committee or the municipal commissioner. This resulted in NMC paying a higher rate to Kanak, which is owned by ILFS. Kanak also lifts garbage in Jabalpur, Delhi and some cities of Gujarat.
 
 Meanwhile, the NMC administration has been asked to start the process of appointing a new operator. Kanak’s tenure ends in May 2018 and it is unlikely that the new operator will be appointed before that. Kanak will continue to lift garbage at NMC’s rate, which is lower than the one set by Ganvir unilaterally.
 
 Ganvir’s suspension was announced by standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi on Monday in a press conference. “The municipal commissioner has been asked to conduct a departmental enquiry into the irregularities in three months and submit the report to standing committee,” Jadhav said.
 
 Ganvir is set to retire in August this year and this suspension will not affect his career much. However, his pension and gratuity will be stopped. Several departmental enquiries had been ordered against the health officer over the years, but he managed to extricate himself every time. His luck, however, appears to have run out at the fag end of his career.
 
 Jadhav told the media that there was difference between the conditions in the tender and those in the agreement signed between NMC and Kanak. “For example, Kanak’s rate for lifting garbage was linked to wholesale price index (WPI) on annual basis. Ganvir made it on quarterly basis, without taking anybody’s permission. Many other conditions were changed by him,” he said.
 
 TOI tried to contact Ganvir for his comments, but he refused to come on the phone.
 
 The scam would not have come to light had Kanak not told NMC in April 2016 that it would stop work unless it was paid Rs1,606.69 per tonne for lifting garbage. This was Rs573.01 per tonne more than the earlier quarter. This woke up NMC officials from their deep slumber and they went through the original tender and agreement. It was then they realized that Ganvir had changed the conditions in the agreement. However, no action was taken for months. It was only on the insistence of standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav that the action was taken.
 
 On realizing that its game was up, Kanak agreed to work at a rate of Rs1,306.87 per tonne as fixed by the municipal commissioner. It will be paid this rate from July 2016 onwards until its contract is terminated or till the end of its term.
 
 Joshi told the media that NMC had not cleared bills of Kanak worth around Rs20 crore and, hence, if it was found guilty in the enquiry, NMC will penalize it.
 
