An alumni of the   in New York, American cellist   has no aspirations to compose music for a   film or a Broadway musical. Instead he’s drawn to places like the Middle East, Iraq, Lebanon, Jamaica and   where he likes to impart music education to those who have been deprived of the same. BT caught up with Avery, who is on his maiden visit to Bengaluru, to discuss his take on music and why he likes to work in conflict zones. Excerpts:

 
 
 I find myself drawn to such places. Several schools in these countries that are witnessing conflict are non-functional; the musical education given to students there is stunted. I like to contribute with music and try to teach them as much as I can. Students there are very talented and driven, and over a period of time, I develop a good musical and personal connection with them. I use music to connect with them. I feel those children deserve a chance to a good musical education and since music is such a powerful tool, it gives me a chance to use my knowledge of music. Working in such places also takes a toll on me personally as I develop a bond with the people there and I often worry about them. I usually go back to those places to check the progress that my students have made.
 
 
 
 While I was in Afghanistan, I instantly fell in love with the music there. I learnt traditional folk music from the locals and arranged it for a different ensemble. I used Afghan music and combined it with Western harmony and performed the same on several occasions.
 
 
 
 MusAid is a US non-profit organization where I am currently the programme manager. MusAid organizes musical workshops and teacher-student interactions in countries that are grappling with conflict. Our main aim is to conduct development programmes and short workshops that help people heal through music.
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. I have no such aspirations. Hollywood does not attract me. I am happy with what am doing currently and wish to work on the same path, i.e., to impart musical education to students and help them improve their musical skills.
 
 
 
 It has been phenomenal. I find the students here to be very polite and patient. I am very impressed with them and how well-behaved they are. In the US, I literally have to beg and plead to my students to get my point across to them. Here, it is just so easy.
 
 
 
 Indian classical music is very complicated. It is very challenging and takes a lifetime to learn the nuances of it. I had a guru, under whom I was exposed to Indian classical music and I realized that there is so much to it.
 
 — Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
