NAGPUR: “Na nar hai na naari hai, par sab pe bhaari hai...” goes the slogan of a transgender contesting the civic polls. There are two this time contesting from different wards against prominent city leaders.   and Bantibai Kavade have one thing in common— their amiable nature prompted women in their vicinity to push them into the fray. Despite enjoying popularity and support in their respective localities, both were spurned by mainstream political parties.

 Sangeeta, a resident of Binaki Mangalwari, is contesting for the second time. “Last time, I contested as candidate of a small political group. Not getting much support from parties, I decided to run as an independent this time,” said the 30-year-old.
 
 After facing repeated rejections, 36-year-old Bantibai too decided to fight independently from Ward 18. Up against strong names like standing committee chairman   and youth congress leader Bunty Shelke, Bantibai is confident of winning, mainly because “these leaders have lost connect with the people after getting name and fame.”
 
 Locals seem to have sympathy for her, for the ordeal she went through because of hidebound ideas of her parents. “Since she was born and brought up in the same locality, we have seen everything — how as a child she wouldn’t be fed, forced to work and non-acceptance by her family members,” said a housewife   Pawar.
 
 When she was 14, Bantibai fled her home and found work as a maid. Then she had met Manish Kavade who was a Class IV employee in the Army. “We got married in 1999 despite strong resistance from my in-laws,” she said. After some blissful years, her husband suddenly died leaving Bantibai lonely again. “We are her only family and she keeps fighting with civic officials on our behalf. We are sure she wouldn’t turn her back on us after winning the elections,” said local resident Kalpana Rokde.
 
 Like her, Sangeetabai too is well-liked in her locality. Seeking alms through begging in passenger trains, Sangeeta saved every penny to pay Rs5000 deposit as candidate. “I am not contesting for money. I just want to become a good representative of my people,” she said.
 
 Her supporters feel she would give a tough fight to other candidates. “She is one of us and is well aware of the civic problems here. Though a transgender, she might emerge as a strong contestant,” said a resident Munna Gupta. Sangeetabai believes time has now come for including transgender community in politics. “The   has recognized the third gender and we deserve reservations too. It’s the only way to uplift us,” she said.
 
