AHMEDABAD:   has promised to hike unemployment allowance at a cost of Rs7,000 crore to the state exchequer, if voted to power in the assembly elections scheduled later this year. The party has also said it will distribute smartphones to all state citizens below 35 years of age, if it wins the elections. The promises were made during the announcement of `Navsarjan Yuva Rojgar Abhiyan' in Ahmedabad on Tuesday . Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee president Bharat Solanki and Congress's Gujarat in-charge,   spoke at length at the event.
Solanki said, "There are around 10 lakh registered unemployed youth and another 20 lakh unregistered unemployed youth in Gujarat.Congress's top priority , if voted to power, is getting employment for these 30 lakh youth."
 
 Solanki added, "Till these youth get employed, the party has decided on a monthly unemployment allowance of Rs 3,000 for class XII passed candidates, Rs 3,500 for graduate candidates and Rs4,000 for postgraduate candidates."
 
 Solanki said that an enrolment drive will begin from September 14 to register unemployed youth and will continue for five days at all taluka headquarters. Later, the youth can register online on the Gujarat Congress website or also give a missed call on phone number given by the party for this purpose.
 
 Solanki said that the there are seven lakh posts vacant in government and board corpo rations and   shoe of uld give proper emp loyment to all youth in the cracy state. He also said that the 2017 BJP govern ment was ex ploiting youths in name of fix uld give proper emp loyment to all youth in the state. He also said that the BJP govern ment was exploiting youths in name of fix ed pay. "We are not going to give sword and trishul to the youth but will give them smartphones to remain in touch with the latest happenings in the world," he said.
 
 Solanki further said that to promote big industrialists, BJP was ignoring small and medium sector which is the biggest employment provider.
 
 
 
 
 That three lakh questions were asked to BJP president Amit Shah indicates that people in the state are not happy with the BJP government, said state Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki.He said that since the formation of Gujarat, the BJP has enjoyed power for more than 50% of the time, but the facilities that exist in the state today have all been created by the Congress.
 
 
 
 
 To be in the good books of Prime Minister   and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, the roads through which the two friends will pass are being resurfaced though this is the rainy season, while the BJP ignores the plight of the people battling with the potholes across the city," said Gohil. He also questioned the timing of the foundation-stone laying of Bullet train. "Since elections are going to be held this year,   is laying the project which will be completed in 2023. It is not the first time, in 2005, too, Modi then as CM had laid foundation for Metro train between Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar. But that project is yet to take off while states like Rajasthan, where work began after Ahmedabad have completed the project," Gohil said.
 
