PUNE: A sessions court on Friday granted an ad interim anticipatory bail till July 28 to  , the great grandson of freedom fighter  , in an alleged rape case lodged by a woman lawyer with the Vishrambaug police on July 17.

 Additional sessions judge L L   has directed Tilak not to tamper with witnesses and cooperate with the police investigators as and when called for probe.
 
 The court also directed him to attend each and every date of hearing till final disposal of his anticipatory bail application. Tilak will now have to appear before the court at the next hearing on July 28.
 
 In between, notices will be sent to the state prosecution for its stance. The prosecution is expected to advance its arguments over the merits of the anticipatory bail plea and the complainant too is likely to be represented by her lawyer in the matter. 
 
 The complainant, a 41-year-old lawyer, has alleged in her FIR that she had been repeatedly raped since 2015 by Tilak, who lured her into a physical relationship on the promise of marriage. However, over the last few months, he had started physically and mentally abusing her and also forced her to undergo an abortion, she alleged. 
 
 The police have since registered a case under Sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offence) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), among other offences of the IPC and started an investigation. Apprehending his arrest, Tilak filed an anticipatory bail application in the sessions court on Thursday. 
 
 Senior lawyer  , appearing for Tilak, submitted that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the case with an intent to malign his image. Phadke argued that the complainant’s claim that she met Tilak on a social networking site and that she never knew he was married nor did he tell her about his marital status was totally incorrect. Tilak’s status on his Facebook page showed that he was married, Phadke said. 
 
 Moreover, Phadke argued that it was not probable for the complainant to keep mum for almost two years since the first instance of the alleged sexual assault. As of now, custodial interrogation of the applicant was not required as the police neither have anything to recover from the applicant nor there is such case for recovery. The places where the alleged instances of sexual assault occurred have been shown by the complainant to the police. As such, the prayer for an ad interim bail till final disposal of the anticipatory bail plea be granted, Phadke submitted. 
 
