Bhopal: Murray’s Traveller’s Guide to India describes it as ‘the most picturesque building in Bhopal’. Called as the summer palace, the historic   in   has witnessed many changes over the years and demands for restoration of its glory have been buried in red tape.

 One of the few heritage monuments with preliminary ‘protected monument’ status, the city’s 142-year-old palace does not have time on its side. Restored for around Rs 3 crore, the ‘H’ shaped building is in need of adaptive reuse. The palace was also the secretariat of erstwhile Bhopal State and Mahatma Gandhi in 1929 addressed a rally the palace grounds. 
 
 Infamously, the demands for protection of the summer palace arose to its peak after protest dumping of rubble and digging ahead of Satyagraha, a film by Prakash Jha shot extensively at the palace. Since 2012, there has been no restoration work carried out in the palace after the filming. 
 
 Taking note, the government came out with a first notification starting the process of the palace being declared a protected monument. 
 
 However, the gazette notification that would finalise the monument’s heritage and protected status has been stuck in red tape. Government officials admit off the record that a protected status would be difficult to lure private investors for its adaptive reuse. “The process is on. We are considering varied options for Benazir palace,” said an official.
 
 As the palace awaits a government decision, its surroundings are once again being encroached. A local resident has converted one of the gates of the historic palace into a makeshift room. 
 
 About Rs 3 crore has been spent on restoration of the palace, which was a college for over three decades. However, the ownership of the palace and grounds is still disputed. Palace interior falls under the public works department (PWD), while the palace ground and some quarters belong to the Gandhi Medical College (GMC). 
 
 BOX:
 
 Location: Shahjehanabad
 
 Built: 1875
 
 Located at Motia Lake, the palace is a perfect blend of European and Mughal architecture
 
 Function: None. Originally a summer rest-house for Bhopal's ruler Shahjahan Begum
 
 Ownership: Government
 
 Features: Palace built by Nawab Shahjehan Begum around 1875. It is an ‘H’ shaped building with slender cast iron pillars and imported brackets. Coloured glass work with intricate woodwork is one of the finer features of the palace, which was later turned into a government science and commerce college. During their visit in 1908, Lord and Lady Minto were housed in the palace built with sandstone.
 
 Murray’s Traveller’s Guide to India describes it as 'the most picturesque building in Bhopal’
 
 Beautiful fountains reflect feel of Mughal art 
 
 Nets were installed at window panes to allow breeze
 
 Mahatma Gandhi gave call to join freedom movement from the very ground of the palace in 1929. He also halted for a night at the palace
 
 An exquisite hamam (bath) was built in basement of the palace and still looks glorious with leaves and flowers carved into its walls 
 
 
