BENGALURU: The Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) will soon draw up guidelines for doctors on managing Fragile X Syndrome, a genetic condition that causes a range of developmental disabilities, including learning disabilities and cognitive impairment. 

  Fragile X syndrome and its related disorders are rarely reported in India and it is usually detected late, said experts at an Indo-US endeavour in the city to create awareness for better Fragile X care on Tuesday. 
 
  Dr  , director at Institute of Child Health and president of IAP, said: "Cases of Fragile X syndrome and its associated disorders are mostly not reported in India. High incidence of the anomaly has urged IAP to come up with guidelines for managing the syndrome as it is necessary to create awareness about the syndrome among doctors." India has over 4,00,000 people with Fragile X syndrome. 
 
  Shalini Kedia, founder-member and chairperson of The  , a non-profit organisation that promotes awareness about the syndrome, said: "While toddlers between 36 and 42 months are usually detected with the syndrome in US, in India, it is detected only at the age of 10-16 years and sometimes, even at 40. This has resulted in a huge gap in treatment." 
 
  Situation changing 
 
  The situation is gradually changing as proved by the recent diagnosis of a one-year-old patient in India. "Doctors are gradually learning latest treatments and newer intervention. Even pre-natal diagnosis is being successfully done, which has resulted in effective genetic counselling," she added. 
 
  The symposium was organised by Fragile X Society, India in association with  , US, National Institute of   and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) and Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru. 
 
  Dr Randi Hagerman, medical director at UC Davis Mind Institute, said: "We have tied up with the Fragile X Society, India to spread awareness about the syndrome and its related disorders. We are training doctors and psychologists in Fragile X, autism and other neuro-developmental disorders through our international training programme in neuro-developmental disorders. 
 
