NAGPUR: Bookies, who specialize in politics, have predicted a clear majority for the BJP in the  . 

 Out of the 151 seats, the bookies are backing BJP to win between 76 and 80 seats, emerge a clear win and retain power in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. The   is expecting the turnover to cross Rs 50 crores. 
 
 The Congress, bookies feel, would not draw much attention from punters. Victory in 36 to 40 seats is the prediction.
 
 Bets have just started trickling in with the odds being offered ‘at equal or par’ on the predicted seat share. Bookies are hopeful that as the campaign comes to end on Sunday more punters will join the party.
 
 Apart from the  , the bookies claimed that the polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Goa too have generated much enthusiasm among the punters. They plan to start accepting bets closer towards the results day on March 11.
 
 In Nagpur alone, the   in the next few days is likely to be in the region of Rs 200 crores.
 
 The political turf in the civic election may be now gathering steam but a different mind game is set to sizzle an arena explored by the speculators who are passionately staking their claims with money on their ‘bets’ predicting a win or loss for the parties they feel would leave the mark. The basic fight is learnt to be revolving around the number of seats which each party is likely to capture.
 
 According to the bookies, the chances of Congress winning seats may further decline as the prediction for BJP is set to rise with the arrival of star campaigners like Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in the next couple of days. The factor of ‘local CM Deven’ would further fire up the BJP camp. 
 
 On the other hand, the infighting within Congress, including the recent ink-attack on former CM Ashok Chavan, has added to their woes as punters banking on anti-incumbency factor and detrimental affect of demonetization have started losing hope. 
 
 The bookies analysed that the BJP camp, which had also witnessed rebellion and mass expulsion, may not be as affected as rival Congress where the in-fighting has reached to such extent that rumours of conspiracies to sabotage chances of big leaders have started gaining grounds. 
 
 A reliable source claimed that the bookies basically banked upon the party positions in city and elsewhere, issues raised, decisions like demonetizations which affected the masses along with the campaigns and the parties’ reach to the masses before opening the odds on seat share for punter to place bets.
 
 “The vote share in each segments in the last assembly election, the margin of wins and other factors like localities where voting had taken place enthusiastically is also considered,” he said.
 
 He also added that BSP, which had surprised everyone in the last civic election with 11 seats, will not be able to make much mark due to its internal rivalries over ticket distributions. 
 
