Margao: The Margao town police have booked an offence against bus driver Irfan Shaikh, and conductor Mehboob Shaikh, in connection with the accident that led to a 16-year-old school student falling off a moving bus at  . They have been charged under IPC Sections 375 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 279 (rash driving) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), police sources said.

 The regional transport office (RTO) has also registered an offence in the matter and has seized the bus. 
 
 “We are investigating the case. The bus driver and conductor have been summoned for interrogation on Wedneday,” assistant director of the RTO Prakash Kholkar, told TOI on Tuesday. The duo’s statements are expected to throw light on what caused the girl to fall off the vehicle and onto the road, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the RTO, which is currently observing Road Safety Week, has intensified its drive against violations of rules by public buses.
 
 “We have the taken the incident (the mishap involving the bus) very seriously. We have already started cracking down on buses found violating public transport rules. Instructions have been given to all bus operators to strictly avoid overcrowding and overspeeding,” Kholkar said. 
 
 Citizens, however, continue to express outrage over the “callous” attitude of the bus driver and conductor, which they claim, led to the accident. 
 
 “The RTO should strictly check the antecedents of the bus drivers and conductors employed on public buses. Underage and unlicensed drivers often go behind the wheel, and irresponsible urchins serve as conductors. Rash driving, overtaking wrongly and overspeeding continue with impunity even during Road Safety Week,” activist Mahesh Nayak told TOI.
 
 Godwin Pereira, a regular commuter on Margao-Panaji route, said despite tall talks by the RTO, hardly any action appears to be taken against bus drivers and conductors not wearing uniforms, not issuing tickets, and playing loud music in buses etc. 
 
 
