COIMBATORE: The   (PWD) is likely to de-silt 11 tributaries of   river, one feeder  , 23 supply channels and more than 20 lakes in Coimbatore, ahead of summer. With the state facing a drought situation and the city facing a huge  , the   has sent the list of water bodies to be de-silted, seeking Rs4.7crore from the state government.

 The PWD approaches the government for funds to de-silt the lakes every year. With the entire state being declared as drought-hit, and with the state expected to get funds from the Centre, officials are hopeful. “We are sure that we will at least get some funds to carry out the de-silting works,” said a senior executive engineer.
 
 The disaster mitigation committee has also come up with a proposal to de-silt abandoned irrigation lakes so that they can be converted as sub structures to store more water. The officials said they wanted to look at long term measures to address the drought situation. In Coimbatore, one or two lakes have been identified which could be de-silted under the disaster management fund. In Chennai, 12 lakes will be de-silted under this scheme.
 
 The major lakes in the district that will be de-silted are Puthukulam, Ukkulam, Kolrampathy, Ganga Narayan, Perur big tank, Perur small tank, Kuniyamuthur Sengulam, Kurichi small lake, Kurichi kulam, Vellalore, Ottrapalayam, Kannampalayam, Irugur, Nilambur, Sulur big and small tank. Non system tanks such as the ones at Annur, Kunnathur will also be de-silted. The Chinnvedampatti feeder also needs to be cleaned up, said the officer.
 
 Eleven tributaries of river Noyyal that supply water to the tanks are covered with invasive species that block the water way. “The invasive species need to be removed so that when it rains, the water could reach the tanks,” said an officer.
 
 As per the PWD officers, the cost of de-silting one tank is estimated at Rs10-20lakh. “If the government grants the funds, we will start the work and ensure that we can store more water this monsoon. This has to be carried out if the depleted ground water tables must be replenished,” said an official.
 
 Environmental activists in the city said this was the right time for the civic body to carry out de-silting work of all the eight lakes that they maintain. While NGOs and youngsters are cleaning up the lakes, the de-silting work has to be carried out by the government using heavy machinery. “NGOs cannot de-silt lakes. We can only support and help them,” said an environmentalist.
 
