MUMBAI: A programme organised to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday at Carter Road on Sunday ran into rough weather with activists expressing their displeasure. 

 A stage was set up on Bandra’s Carter Road promenade and two loudspeakers installed by some BJP leaders. Party workers had also put up banners in the area. This despite Modi urging his party colleagues to clean hospitals, schools and parks, and post the pictures of the same on his app instead of organizing programmes. Activist Sumaira Abdulali visited the area around afternoon and she tweeted that the Carter Road promenade was blocked for Modi’s celebrations and that she would noise pollution in the evening.
 
 The loudspeakers were removed by the evening and the organizers said they had permission for it only till 5pm and hence they were packed off. 
 
 A businessman who uses the promenade for his morning walks, said, “Many senior citizen walk with me and we faced difficulties because the organizers had encroached upon a large portion of the area by setting up the stage and barricading the area.”
 
 The BJP Yuva Morcha had organized the programme to promote khadi apparel and put up a banner of the same material on around 1km stretch of Carter Road asking citizens to write their message for Modi.
 
 “Various programmes happen in the area frequently and this was not the first one. We have organized the programme with all permission and kept enough space for those who want to use the promenade. Party workers may have put up banners in the area, I am not aware about the same,” said city BJP Yuva Morcha chief Mohit Kamboj. 
 
 Civic officials later clocked photographs of the illegal banners that had been put up and will will handover it to the police along with their report. “We will take action as in accordance with law,” said assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade. 
 
 Earlier the BJP had planned putting up a stage at the Nariman Point seafront and and display khadi material along a one-km stretch on the occasion of Modi’s birthday, but the BMC denied permission to the event referring to a Bombay high court order. 
 
 After which the BJP switched the event venue.
 
 
