LUCKNOW: After shrugging off intelligence report indicating involvement of her brother Anand Kumar in establishing back channel support to the Bhim Army and its chief Chandrashekhar,   chief   is learnt to have asked her party functionaries to organise cadre   in strife-torn   and counsel the party’s supporters.

 BSP sources said their chief Mayawati on Thursday called some party leaders and asked them to organise camps to to alienate the Dalit youth getting affiliated with the Bhim Army. “There may be some Dalit youths associating with the Bhim Army and taking to violence so we will counsel and apprise them about the BSP philosophy,” a senior BSP leader, told TOI.
 
 The development comes two days after Mayawati said during her visit to Saharanpur’s Shabbirpur village that social media groups fighting for the cause of Dalits should come under the umbrella of BSP. “The party has no intention to subsume any social group engaged in violence but we can at least reach out to such groups’ supporters and apprise them about our ideology,’’ said a senior party functionary.
 
 Party sources said the responsibility of organising cadre camps has been given to senior BSP functionaries like RS MP Munqad Ali; MLC Athar Singh Rao, MP Siddharth Ashok and former MLA Indrajeet Saroj. Sources said a host of party functionaries from Dalit community have already been alerted about the proposed cadre camps.
 
 BSP sources said the camp will begin by calling up on district party functionaries to get a feedback on the prevailing volatile situation in Saharanpur. The functionaries would subsequently be asked to bring in youth, especially those from the Dalit community, to camps and apprised about the party's principle ideology and the Bahujan movement.
 
 Though BSP had a system of organising cadre camps, it suspended them after its defeat in the recently held state assembly elections. Sources said the BSP now plans to begin them afresh with a new set of party functionaries in the west UP region. Besides, Saharanpur, the camps are expected to be organised in Meerut, Moradabad and Aligarh also, party sources said.
 
 Political experts said Mayawati understands the need to reach out to Dalit youth who have potential of becoming the forceful arm of Bhim Army. Retired IPS officer and Dalit ideologue S R Darapuri said modus operandi of social groups like Bhim Army potentially threatens to alienate the Dalit youth from the BSP. “The restive Dalit youth appear to be in no mood to bow to the existing social order and want to fight just politically,’’ he said. 
 
 
