Ever wondered why you feel hotter than it is supposed to be? Here’s why. A recent   shows that the country’s average   index has shown a significant decadal increase over the past 60 years. It has risen at the rate of 0.56 degree Celsius and 0.32 degree Celsius per decade in the summer and monsoon months, respectively. 

 Heat index is a measure of stress that humans face due to rise in temperature as well as moisture levels. The higher the heat index, the hotter one feels, since sweat cannot readily evaporate and cool the skin.
 
 The summer heat index is in the “very hot” category in 17 of the 25 mega cities analyzed. These include Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Nagpur, among others. This category is considered dangerous as prolonged exposure can lead to cramps, exhaustion or a heat stroke.
 
 The   was jointly conducted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the   (IITM). The researchers advise authorities to take precautionary measures in heat stress-prone regions so that human lives of vulnerable sections of society can be saved. Heat cramps are a result of dehydration and loss of electrolyte balance. Dr Prakash Mahajan told TOI that such a condition can also make a person prone to viral infections. 
 
 Now, for some regional differences. The study found that Mumbai and Pune from western India are in the hot category of the heat index in monsoon and in very hot category in summer. Most mega cities up north, including Delhi and Amritsar, on the other hand, are in the hot category during summer and very hot in monsoon.
 
 A K Jaswal, who recently retired from IMD and was the lead researcher in the study, told TOI that cities with moderate to strong increasing trends in the heat index are more concentrated in the Indo-Gangetic plains, central India and along the west and southeast coast, many of which show a one to three degree decadal increase.
 
 The long-term average heat index for monsoon indicates 18 mega cities are in the very hot category, including New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi and Amritsar, among others.
 
 The study found that 10 mega cities show a significant increasing trend in monsoon, including Mumbai, New Delhi, Lucknow, Gwalior, Varanasi, Nagpur, Madurai, Coimbatore, Hyderabad and Tiruchirapalli. “Mega cities are densely packed with people, buildings, industries and vehicles. Heat released into the atmosphere gets trapped. So, the ambient temperature is often higher than the immediate surroundings,” said Jaswal. 
 
 An interesting regional phenomenon is the stilling of winds in India, said Jaiswal. “Wind helps evaporate sweat and cools the body. Spatially, the increasing trend in heat index is significant across the country, suggesting a substantial rise in human discomfort and illness aggravated by climate change.” 
 
 The study used monthly average maximum temperatures and relative   records from 283 surface meteorological stations in India to analyze the heat index during the summer months of March to May and monsoon months of June to September over the past 60 years--from 1951 to 2010.
 
 Mean maximum temperature and mean monthly relative humidity data were used for calculating the bio-meteorological heat index for various locations in India. 
 
 Dr Narendra Javadekar said, “Heat strokes are seen in places where the temperature rise is extreme, such as cities like Nagpur. People should stay hydrated, especially those with renal stones.”
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
