BHATINDA/LUDHIANA: For six years,   has used his tractor, a Swaraj 735 FE, for only tilling and ploughing his two acres of farmland at Burj village in Maur.
His neighbour Inderjeet Singh, on the other hand, has belted out Dijit Dosanjh and Chamkila's upbeat tracks from his Powertrac while spraying fertiliser in his cotton and paddy fields. Now, however, these farmers are out on the roads of Bathinda, Muktsar and Mansa -an area where the writ of farmer unions runs large -with their power machines to campaign for   (AAP) candidates Baljinder Kaur, Jagdeep Sandhu, and Rupinder Kaur.
 
 With their minds still rankled by the Rs 39-crore pesticide scam of 2015, frequent farm suicides and rising agriculture debt, many of these agriculturalists are divided over which party to support in the threecornered fight between AAP , SAD and Congress.
 
 For the first time in Punjab, tractors are hitting the state highways like never before, as farmers participate in AAP rallies. “Listen to this one by Babbu Mann. The song is called Rally. It came two weeks ago. We don't want Badals or Captain anymore. We are at the cusp of a revolution,“ says Inderjeet.
 
 This even as they share their long list of grievances: spurious pesticide, delay in lifting of crops and inconsistent supply of power to irrigation pumps. The rich landlords, popularly known as Zamindars, with their Boleros, Scorpios and Willys Jeeps are still swaying towards the Congress and   Dal, while those with small and average land holdings are banking on the new entrant.
 
 When Mutksar's SAD Muktsar candidate Rozy Barkandi and Congress's Ram Pura Phul candidate   took out their roadshows, most of their supporters commuted in swanky SUVs and bikes. “Everybody wants to defame Punjab. Farmer suicides took place, but Badal government never ignored them. They even raised the compensation to Rs 2 lakh and crop damage money to Rs 30,000,“ says Dilbagh Singh, an AKali Dal supporter.
 
 But such has been the popularity of tractor rallies that even a 56-year-old lawyer and AAP's H S Phoolka, took out these giant machines in the seat he's fighting, Dakha, a week ago.
 
