
 CHANDIGARH: With visual messages on themes of girl education,   among others, Government Middle School, Sector 45, has got a new lease of life. Also the youngsters from Swar Mani Youth Club, who brought about this transformation, succeeded in getting themselves registered in the   for transforming a wasteland into a green patch within 10 hours.
 
 As a result of their hard work the school has got completely transformed. The club includes students from Government College of Fine Arts, Sector 10, Government Colleges, Sector 46 and 11, Khalsa College in Sector 11 and Government Middle School, Sector 45. They have painted the walls of Government Middle School, Sector 45, with different digital prints giving a glimpse of Chandigarh and planted trees within 10 hours using waste material.
 
 The team of 30 students volunteered to turn the school wasteland into a green corner garden using waste material like bamboo sticks, rejected toilet seats, used plastic bottles, damaged tyres, old socks and jeans and rejected paintings. "We started a month ago to level the barren land by working 13 hours a day," said  , a volunteer.
 
 The school was divided into various sections, which displayed a wall with the Make in India logo painted with student handprint followed by the open hand logo made from waste iron sheets. The other sections comprised pots made with tyres, elephant and duck-shaped flower pots made of waste toilet seats, a well of plants made from a waste water tank.
 
 The third section consisted of beautiful wall paintings and doodles highlighting major aspects like girl child education, digital India. The creative students refurbished a damaged wall into a lively painting of trees with a birdhouse. One of the walls of the school had paintings of Milkha Singh, Kirron Kher and  .
 
 They promoted their environment drive by making a compost pit in the school backyard, which would be put to use for dumping school waste. The respect of students towards art was evident in one of the sections that displayed a beautiful picture made with pieces of a waste painting. "We found a dumped painting in a pit and converted it into this as we could not let art be wasted," said  , a student volunteer. Plants were also planted on the occasion.President of   Rohit Kumar, the person behind this idea, assured that he would organize such type of events in future also.
 
 The felicitation ceremony was organized at Government Middle School, Sector 45, in the presence of MP Kirron Kher, DSE( director of school education) Rupinder Singh Brar, Deputy DSE Saroj Mittal, DEO Rajinder Kaur and deputy education officer (area 1) Anujeet Kaur. The students were fecilitated with certificates and mementos of appreciation. 
 
