KOLKATA: Chief minister   again asked for a national government with some other BJP leader at the helm, citing revenue and job loss in all the states after  's demonetisation move.
While taking stock of the departments at Town Hall, she said: “Our state suffered a Rs 5,500-crore revenue loss. A total of 1.70 crore people have been hit hard, with 81.5 lakh losing their jobs. The Prime Minister can't run the country. Let there be a national government and let someone else from BJP take over. It can be Advani, Rajnath Singh or   .“
 
 Appreciating what President   said about providing protection to the poor, the CM urged him to become a saviour for the states.“The present PM is the great Kalidas who is cutting branches of the tree on which he is. The country isn't in safe hands of `buddhiharan babu' (a fool).Even government projects have been hit. I ask SDOs to get in touch with the CMO in the event of a government project being stalled,“ the CM said, asking officials to create a dedicated CMO phone number for this.
 
 Mamata feared that worse is in store for the state. “What you are seeing now isn't the bottom of the crisis.The worst is yet to happen. How long can industries operate without funds? They are running out of working capital. People have money in banks, but they can't withdraw it. We don't know how long the cashless PM will continue with the cash withdrawal ceiling. Farmers, bidi workers, tea plantation workers, those working in jute mills, artisans, weavers and jewellery makers are the worst hit. The Centre had promised Rs 2,500 crore to cooperative banks. But they have got only Rs 300 crore. The cash crunch has taken a toll on rabi crops and potato farming too.“ She argued that the slump in farming will lead to aspike in commodity prices in the near future and the country will be heading towards famine.
 
 The CM also hit out at Modi over his bid to do away with the old institutions. “Yesterday , we got a letter from the ministry of corporate affairs dissolving the board for industrial and financial reconstruction (BIFR). This is not the only one. Soon after he came to power, the PM abolished the planning commission, which used to allocate resources for states. He replaced it with Niti Ayog. The PM has been eroding institutions that formed the country's backbone,“ the CM said.
 
 The CM took a dig at the deployment of CRPF jawans in front of the state BJP office. “Political parties are calling in the CRPF when there is a state government. The PM is misusing government agencies. The country is witnessing a terror, we have to come out of it.“ She then appealed to all political parties to set aside their differences and chalk out a common minimum programme for the national government.
 
