BENGALURU: The state higher education department has sought a factual report on the appointment of   in-charge vice-chancellor H N Ramesh as reader in the civil engineering department in 1993 and also as the dean of   on December 14, 2015.

 According to the the department's communication, it has received a complaint from members of   claiming that in both instances, Ramesh had been illegally appointed and allegedly produced fake certificates for appointments.
 
 The department should annul both the appointments and initiate civil and criminal action against him for allegedly furnishing false and misleading information and getting selected in a fraudulent manner, the department quoted the forum as saying.
 
 Copies of the complaint were submitted to the governor and higher education minister Basavraj Rayareddi. A copy the complaint is available with TOI.
 
 The forum claimed that Ramesh had applied for the post of reader in two departments in one application in 1993. Ramesh claims has to have passed MSc in engineering in 1988-90, while he doesn't figure in the IISc's list of students who passed out in 1988-1994 as received by an RTI reply.
 
 “He only had three years and 11 months experience for the post of reader at the time of appointment against the requirement of the post,“ the forum added. “All these allegations show that Ramesh was never eligible for the post of reader, but was recruited for the same. While the reader's appointment had been quashed by the high court in a similar case, how come Ramesh is still continuing,“ asked   , president, Karnataka State Education Forum.
 
 He alleged that seniority hadn't been followed while appointing Ramesh as dean of engineering faculty.
 
 My appointments are within norms have all papers, says H N Ramesh
 
 However, the V-C has denied all allegations against him.Sharing the details of his appointment with TOI, Ramesh said, “I finished my engineering with distinction in 1984 and followed it up with an MSc in engineering in 1988-90. This was later converted into PhD in 1990. I completed my PhD in 1994, after I was specially recommended for the same by an expert committee of IISc. When I was appointed as reader in 1996, I had the equivalent masters degree.“
 
 “As per the certified seniority list by the registrar of BU, I was occupying the top positions in 2007 as well 2016 making me eligible to be appointed as the dean. Not even a single information or certificate submitted during my appointment is fake or invalid. There has been no violation at all. The scrutiny committee has gone through each and every detail of my documents before my appointment as dean of engineering faculty,“ he added.
 
 Ramesh said as far as the charge about mentioning two departments in same application is concerned, both are parts of the civil engineering branch.
 
