MUMBAI: The BMC will soon issue   to 10 contractors asking them why they should not be blacklisted for doing shoddy road   across the city during the last three years.The   may also file a police case against the contractors. The BMC has already forfeited a payment of Rs 1,000 crore due to these contractors.

 After the first phase of its inquiry into the roads scam, the BMC had filed a police case against six contractors and blacklisted them. Now, with the second phase of the probe covering 200 roads across the city complete, the probe team will submit its final report to civic   who may recommend police action against the contractors. Officials claimed that these contractors would form a cartel to get all road work for themselves with the help of their political godfathers and by manipulating tender conditions through civic officials.
 
 “During our inquiry, we found that these contractors had done shoddy work. The show-cause notice will ensure they do not participate in the tendering process for road works now. We expect that after this, other contractors doing good work in other cities and big companies will come forward to bid for the works,“ said a senior official.
 
 On Thursday, members of the   discussed the matter with Mehta and decided to issue show-cause notices.
 
 In 2015, then then mayor Snehal Ambekar alleged malpractices in road work and wrote a letter to the civic chief asking him to probe the matter. Mehta appointed a committee under additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh for probing road works done in the last three years. In the probe's first phase, the committee looked into 33 roads and found work there to be shoddy . Six contractors were blacklisted in th matter and police cases were filed against them. Police arrested 25 accused, including then BMC chief engineers Ashok Pawar and Uday Murudkar, executive engineer Kishore Yerme, and contractor Dipan Shah.
 
 The BMC officials who were arrested in July last year over the Rs 353 crore road scam also featured in the police's chargesheet filed in the case. This was the first time in years that high-ranking civic officials were not only arrested for wrongdoing but were also set to face trial.
 
 Police invoked against the accused various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The chargesheet accused civic engineers of conniving with contractors to give false reports on road thickness levels so that less material could be used.
 
