PANAJI: When David Murphy takes the stage on Thursday, conducting a performance of sarod legend   with musicians from the UK’s Sinfonia Verdi, it won’t be the first time he’s leading such a collaboration. A protege of Pt Ravi Shankar, he famously premiered the sitar legend’s ‘Symphony’, with the London   and Anoushka Shankar as soloist. In May this year, he will premiere Shankar’s only opera, ‘Sukanya’, in London.

 And he’s chosen Goa to launch his latest project, ‘Roots of Fire’. “The concept of the event is that the basis of all music, whether eastern of western, comprises a common creative spark,” he said, in an exclusive interview with TOI on Tuesday. “Goa is a fascinating place to begin this because of the different influences here the influence of the Portuguese, as well as how the music of the West came into Goa and mixed naturally with the music that was already here. This kind of interaction that’s already happened in Goa is what we’re trying to build upon.”
 
 What baffled Murphy, however, was the ‘separation’ of eastern and western music in Goa. “The spheres are completely separate,” he says. “Children who study western music had no experience of Indian music. So it’s quite ironic that we came from the UK and this morning we introduced some Indian rhythm cycles.” Speaking about his concert on Thursday, he said, “In the project, we will use Indian rhythms with western harmonies; bringing something from each tradition to create a new piece that uses those raw materials.”
 
 Like many others, Murphy encountered Indian classical music through the great Pt Ravi Shankar-Yehudi Menuhin collaboration in the 1960s. “Menuhin had this great love for Indian classical music,” he said. “That was my first interaction with Indian music. From there, I began to learn about all other wonderful musicians in India.”
 
 One of them is Amjad Ali Khan. Elaborating on the difficulties of conducting an Indian virtuoso, Murphy says, “The role of the conductor is to be able to enable both, the orchestra and the Indian musician, to be able to fulfil themselves musically.” Here, experience helps. “Over the years, you begin to enable that expression and help the orchestra contribute to Khan’s musical vision. I’ve worked with him so much so I’ve begun to understand that, and contribute that to the western musicians.”
 
 It won’t be all fusion on Thursday though. “Musicians will play chamber music; Mozart’s flute quartet in D major, and a Weber composition for bassoon,” he said. “The main piece, ‘Samaagam’, will be played by Amjad Ali Khan and a larger western ensemble.”
 
 
