PANAJI: The   of  , on Friday, quashed and set aside all tenancy free certificates obtained for the purpose of constructing the controversial Rs 500 crore golf course at Tiracol, and prohibited construction activity till an inquiry is conducted in the matter.

 The verdict, delivered on a PIL filed by St Anthony's Mundkar and   and  , came down heavily on the deputy collector, who granted the certificates to Leading Hotels Ltd, for not examining the tenancy issue as per the law, and ordered that the NOC granted by the town planning authorities and the sanad granted by the collector be kept in abeyance until after the inquiry.
 
 It was the petitioner’s claim that the land, granted to tenants under the terms of the Agricultural Tenancy Act 1964, cannot be used for any purpose other than agriculture and that the tenanted land was purchased by Leading Hotels Ltd for the purpose of building a golf course.
 
 The PIL also claimed that collector had granted the conversion sanad overlooking the report of the mamlatdar that clearly stated that there were tenants shown in the survey records in 1990.
 
 A division bench observed that the deputy collector had granted tenancy-free certificates to the respondent   without examining all aspects of the law.
 
 The bench comprising justices F M Reis and Nutan D Sardessai said the deputy collector had instead merely relied on “orders obtained based on concession as well as admission of the persons shown as tenants”. 
 
 The high court said it cannot allow the objects of beneficial legislations like the Agricultural Tenancy Act 1964 and Land Use Act, which are measures of agrarian reforms, to be defeated if the subject lands are in fact tenanted. 
 
 As to whether the land was granted to the tenants when the Goa Land Use Act came into force, the court said that that would have to be considered on its own merit and not merely on the basis of the orders, which allegedly have been obtained by committing fraud on the statute. 
 
 During the hearing of the case, Norma Alvares, counsel appearing for the petitioners, argued that the intention was to defraud the statute and claim that the lands are not tenanted when the lands are, in fact, tenanted. These lands are protected from change of user in terms of the provisions of the Goa Land Use Act, she argued.
 
 The high court has ordered deputy collector of Dharbandora Agnelo A Fernandes to hold an inquiry into the case within five months.
 
 The government had conveyed to the town planning authority its approval to the setting up of a golf course resort in an area of 7,70,000 sq m after which the body had issued NOC for conversion of 40,000 sq m, subject to verification of tenancy status by competent authority.
 
 In 2014, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) granted coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance for setting up of an 18-hole PGA golf course and ecotourism resort at   in Pernem taluka. The project was mired in controversy after promoters of the project started acquiring land. 
 
 The court has directed the company not carry out any construction activity on the property, except what was permitted by an interim order dated July 29, 2015. 
 
 May be a Box
 
 Section 2 of the Land Use Act, which came into in force on November 2, 1990, provides that no land which is vested in a tenant under the provisions of the Goa, Daman and Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 shall be used or allowed to be used for any purpose other than agriculture.
 
