VISAKHAPATNAM: Luxury tourism is fast picking up in the north coastal region with high-end bikers and tourists arriving from various places in AP and Telangana and other states as well. 

 Recently, around 26 bikers arrived from Hyderabad with their family on high-end bikes worth between Rs 15 lakhs and Rs 60 lakh each to Bhogapuram area in Vizianagaram. Most of the bikes were Harley Davidsons and Triumphs. 
 
 “Vizag city has a vast coastline and more attractive than Goa. Though Goa has many beaches, it does not have proper roads to drive high-end bikes,” GV Prasad, president of   bikers in Hyderabad, told TOI. 
 
 Besides, there are other facilities in Vizag such as golf course on the coast and chopper landing space in a resort near Kauluwada. 
 
 Prasad’s 46-year-old wife Nandini, who is the navigator for the Triumph bike, said except for a 25 km to 50 km stretch, the   highway is good for high-end bikes. “The government should encourage   and bike tourism as enthusiasts like us would prefer to travel in helicopters to save time,” she said. 
 
 Meanwhile, private resort Sun Ray City at Bhogapuram has developed a 9-hole golf course for tourists. The resort also has chopper facilities. “Till then, from Kolkata to Chennai, there were no such facilities to land choppers near the coast. So the people from various states are now keen on coming to Vizag,” resort MD Indukuri Rajababu Varma told TOI. Since December, five groups of 20 persons each landed in the city in choppers from Raipur, Bhubaneswar and other places. Majority of the tourists are CEOs and high officials of various companies. Rajababu Varma said they are expecting another 7 to 10 groups to arrive by the end of March. 
 
 Machineni Shankar, a bike riding competitions and tours organiser in Florida (USA), said high-end tourism has become popular among youth as well as the corporate sector. 
 
 “The government need to focus on maintaining roads to make Vizag a top destination for high-end tourism in the country,” Shankar said. In each trip, the group would spend Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh for three to four days, he said.
 
 
