NAGPUR: In an era where quintessential Indian politician is seen as an ageing and decrepit person,   stands out starkly. For the 46-year-old chief minister of Maharashtra, Wednesday will be a special day as it marks completion of silver jubilee in politics.

 On February 1992, at the politically tender age of 21, Fadnavis was elected corporator of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation from the Ram Nagar ward. It was Fadnavis’s maiden election and he had got instant success. 
 
 Even before that he had been active worker of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad and BJP’s youth wing, the Yuva Morcha. The fact that he hailed from a political family rooted in RSS culture came in handy and helped him gain an edge in understanding working of all democratic institutions. His father Gangadhar Fadnavis had an image of honest, hardworking leader and was an MLC from the graduates’s constituency for several terms.
 
 “I vividly remember that day 25 years ago. Having won the corporation election I celebrated with friends. I had barely had couple of hours of sleep when at dawn a family friend came knocking at my door and says ‘the gutter line at my house is choked for three days, can you help me’. Realization of what was in store in public life dawned at that moment,” the chief minister told ToI while jogging the memory of his political journey.
 
 “As the youngest member, my seniors like Prabhakarji Datke assigned me more work and I willingly did all that as it helped me quickly learn the working of the corporation. Those days corporators had to carry files to officials to get their work cleared. I gave an urgent file to chief finance officer who looked at me and said: “Leave it here, I will speak to you father”. Probably he thought I was running an errand for someone else. I had to tell him that I lost my father some years ago and that I am the corporator,” said Fadnavis.
 
 Fast grasping and reading through documents at a glance are his virtues. From his   days he had developed the knack of delving deep and digging out irregularities and corruption. No wonder, within five years he went on to become youngest mayor of Nagpur.
 
 Soon he won his first Assembly election in 1999 and has since won four times in-a-row from Nagpur. His studious nature, penchant to keep abreast with rules and regulations were stepping stones to success. 
 
 It was no surprise when he became a natural choice for the chief minister post when the BJP emerged as the single-largest party in 2014. He had by then proved his mettle as   president steering the party to win elections.
 
 Asked how he escaped the spite of seniors left behind as he climbed up the political ladder at a phenomenal pace, Fadnavis’s disarming reply is: “ I have no ego. Even today most of my front-ranking ministers are senior to me in age and in the party. But they know my intentions and that I am always ready to listen to their views.” 
 
 Fadnavis counts the recent ground-breaking ceremony for   memorial in presence of Prime Minister   as the most cherished and historic moment in his political career.
 
 
