BENGALURU: “It is tit for tat. We are only reacting to actions'' said BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje, whose recent statements and   in the aftermath of the communal flare-up in Mangaluru has made some of her own party members squirm.

 But the 50-year-old MP, representing the   constituency , is totally unfazed and sees nothing wrong in her calling out Congress leaders who have taken  . Speaking to STOI, Karandlaje said: “Chief minister Siddaramaiah has been aggressively pushing the Ahinda (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) agenda. Did he get his sons to marry into a Dalit family? The CM has been constantly taking digs at state BJP president B S Yeddyurappa's visits to Dalit families, which he has been doing all these years, prompting me to refer to his party leaders G Parameshwara and Dinesh Gundu Rao.'' Her calling the Congress government (for purportedly failing to contain the communal clashes in Mangaluru) “shandaru samaja“ (a group of impotents) has embarrassed even her BJP colleagues. A senior party leader said:“When we attack our political rivals, the language should be refined. The focus is now more on her state ments than on the tension in Mangaluru and Bantwal.'' While she's a close confidante of Yeddyurappa, none of the seniors in the party have rallied behind her solo verbal duel with the Congress.
 
 Party insiders feel her vitriolic statements may not augur well for the BJP, which is trying to strengthen its base in the coastal belt and spread its wings across the state to reach its mission of 150 assembly seats in May 2018.
 
 Karandlaje admitted she has had to singularly handle issues. She attributed her fighting spirit to her days as an RSS worker holding agitations in Udupi. Hers is the story of a young girl from a small village making it big in the capital city and now representing her constituency in New Delhi. From Charvaka village in Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district ­­ where she used to walk five km to reach a school 'without teachers' ­­ she became an MLC in 2004, before graduating to an MLA in 2008, later on to a minister and now an MP carrying the tag of being the “first among equals'' in the state BJP hierarchy.
 
