THRISSUR: Strict control marked the   display arranged here in the wee hours of Saturday as part of the Vela festival of at Paramekkavu temple, and indications are that similar regulatory measures to avert hazardous   will be in force during other festivals as well.

 Collector A Kowsigan had earlier denied permission for the fireworks display when the temple committee submitted a letter requesting permission for conducting the fireworks display using items like Kuzhiminni and Gundu, which are known to generate high-decibel sounds.
 
 The permission was granted finally after Devaswom obtained an order from the high court sanctioning low-decibel fireworks. 
 
 The order had stated that apart from items like Kuzhiminni, the organizers should not use Kathana, and the noise levels shall not exceed prescribed limits. The judge had also directed a minimum distance of 100 meters should be maintained from the place of the event and the public, and the police and revenue officials have been asked to inspect the premises where the fireworks are stocked and the areas where the displays are to be conducted. 
 
 The order also prescribed a time limit of half an hour for the conduct of the display, and directed the devaswom authorities to deposit Rs 10 lakhs as security, with the district administration as surety before conducting the event.
 
  The order has also made clear that this sanction `“shall not be made a precedent so as to be made applicable to the subsequent year or to any other institution.’’
 
 The district administration and police had taken elaborate preparations to ensure that the conditions set by the high court are adhered strictly. Police barricades were erected to keep the people away to safer distances. Samples of the fireworks items used were taken before the event and from the debris after the display. Pollution control board officials were asked to monitor the noise levels. The officials asked the organizers to remove some items like amittu as they were found to be among the prohibited items, the ADM Ananthakrishnan said.
 
 The Paramekkavu devaswom secretary Mahesh said maximum efforts were made to adhere to the directives of the high court.
 
 The district administration has denied sanction to the fireworks displays in some of the churches also this year as they did not adhere to safety conditions.
 
  The office-bearers of both Thiruvambady and   have made it clear that they would not allow use of the banned chemical potassium chlorate in the production of fireworks display.
 
