PANAJI: The regional parties and   in the state recently held informal meetings to explore the possibility of  

 Since electoral pundits have suggested a fractured mandate, regional parties and independent candidates are trying to find out common ground to forge alliances.
 
 Sources said that there have been meetings held between Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), Goa Forward Party’ leaders and independent candidates to explore the possibilities about forging a post-poll alliance.
 
 With apprehension that neither the   nor the   will be able to touch the magic figure of 21, regional parties and independent candidates are wondering whether they should align with any of the national parties.
 
 While the BJP claimed that they will bag 26 seats, the Congress maintained that it will win at least 23 seats, and said that there is no need for them to hold talks with anyone. Defence minister Manohar Parrikar had recently said that time had come to keep the MGP out of the government and the BJP will not have any alliance with anyone as they will get an absolute majority on March 11, when the February election results will announced.
 
 Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar on Monday said the BJP is not in talks with anyone as we are confident of forming the next government with absolute majority. “We have supported two independent candidates (Govind Gaude in Priol constituency and fisheries minister Avertano Furtado in Navelim) and we will take support of those two candidates,” he added. 
 
 Sources said that regional parties and independents feel that without their support, the national parties will not be able to form the next government in the state.
 
 Whereas, United Goans Party has kept it’s options open till the results are out on March 11.
 
  “We have not discussed anything seriously or held any formal meeting with the MGP, though our leaders are close to MGP chief ministerial candidate Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, but I’m sure that the regional parties hold the key to formation of the next government,” Goa Forward leader Vijai Sardesai said.
 
 There are some differences between the MGP and Goa Forward Party over the issue of medium of instruction and Marathi as the state language. “We will have to come out with common minimum programme to forge the alliance,” Sardesai said.
 
 Before the elections, Dhavalikar had said that the MGP-Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM)-Shiv Sena alliance will form the next government and if the BJP wants to be part of the alliance, then they should approach the MGP.
 
 Sources said that leaders of political parties are in touch with some independents who stand a good chance of emerging as winners.
 
 Political observers said that in case of an hung assembly, regional parties will have to align with either the BJP or the Congress to form the next government.
 
 
