NAGPUR: For the first time, the often-neglected problem of   will be addressed all across the state.

 The   ( ) has entrusted National Environmental   (Neeri) to conduct noise mapping in 27 cities of the state. In Vidarbha, monitoring will be done in Nagpur, Amravati, Akola and Chandrapur.
 
 Till now, monitoring of noise levels was restricted to festive and non-festive seasons in selected cities. While hearing a public interest litigation on breach of noise pollution norms, the Bombay high court had asked the state government to file a detailed reply following which the MPCB proposed the idea of statewide noise mapping.
 
 “The larger aim is to identify particular zones of violations in all corporation limits and prepare a constructive plan for city’s development,” said MPCB member secretary P Anbalagan. This is the first time that continuous noise monitoring will be done simultaneously across the state.
 
 “Noise levels will be monitored 24x7 by Neeri for six to nine months. Comprehensive data will be collected and analysed in a scientific manner to get a blueprint of how cities behave when it comes to noise pollution,” Anbalagan added.
 
 The project will be handled by Neeri’s   (C-SUM), which was recently set up to involve urban local bodies and stakeholders for building smart sustainable cities.
 
 Ritesh Vijay, project leader and senior scientist in cleaner technology and modelling division, said that around 100 noise monitoring stations will be set up in every big city. “Cities have been segregated into four zones — Mumbai, Aurangabad, Pune and Vidarbha. In smaller cities, 50 stations will be set up,” said Vijay, adding that noise will be monitored as per day time, night time and working and non-working days.
 
 After tracing major noise pollution sources in different cities, the locations of monitoring stations will be decided. “We will consult the board and local municipal corporations. About 50% of the noise pollution in urban cities is due to traffic. Apart from this, stations will be put near railway stations, industrial areas, constructions sites and other sources emitting noise,” said Vijay.
 
 After assessing the noise impact zones and data collection, Neeri will suggest site-specific preventive measures to mitigate noise pollution.
 
 To sensitize local administration on the adverse impact of noise pollution, workshops are also being conducted in the 27 cities. “The first workshop was held in Mumbai on March 10 and the next one will be in Nagpur on March 20. Through these workshops, we are trying to make civic officials aware of the problem,” added Vijay.
 
