Mixed marriages on our plates… an increasing trend in many a Mumbai restaurants — be it Tandoori Tikka in erotic union with taco (Social’s ‘Tikka Taco’) or Gulab Jamun cross-fertilised with doughnut (Bombay Canteen’s ‘Gulabnut’). And   proudly announces its ‘Global-Local’ mixed breed pedigree in its name. We’re told it’s for those diners who are “proud of their roots but also have wings to discover what is out there”. And the Vasa family, who loves to cook and travel, is the perfect guest. While PK Vasa is known for the robustly spiced Achari Gosht that he cooks up, Nina’s cheesecake is always in demand. Their son Shamit makes time from his jet-setting job in a global engineering company for his “chefu” passion in exotic cooking. Darshana’s Gujarati feasts are legendary and she follows her passion to connect people and plays the role of a matchmaker. The family is not just glocal in nature but has also dined here before and gives it a thumbs up.

 
 Replacing ‘Jewel of India’ in  , this new restaurant sprawls in a high-ceilinged space. Dimly lit and minimalistic with a large bar in the centre.
 
 
 
 Many a mixed shaadi here (Indian with Middle-Eastern, European, American). Also some regional dishes with a modern twist. Superb South African Bunny Chow and the robustly spiced delicious Coorgi Pork Pandi Curry inside the bread bowl. Yum and unique Kolkatta Paan wrapped cheesecake. Regional dishes came out tops: brilliantly spiced and unerringly cooked Meshwi Prawns, deliciously crisp Colocasia Tuk. The Georgian from Russia Naan topped with kheema and egg was not authentic but tasty. Delightfully crisp, tangy and sweet Tokri Chaat and that succulent meaty patty piled high in the Dirty Burger is a must-try.
 
 
 
 Talak! Talak! Talak! Tandoori Chicken stuffed dim sum. Gol Gappas filled with shawarama ‘Doner Puri’. Veg mezze disappoints. Not as many good vegetarian options in the à la carte (buffet much better). Spanish Pincho is neither authentic nor tasty. Chocolate caramel mousse is much too sweet, the restaurant much too dark.
 
 
 
 Glocal’s cuisine allows the chef to meander the globe, taking some shawarama from here, some Bunny Chow from there and marrying them with Indian dishes. It opens up vast continents of flavour, encouraging exploration but perhaps discouraging restraint. So, some of the food has no flavour focus. However, Indian regional cuisine dishes are delightful. Go for the lunch buffet (`599 and on Sunday `887). Go for the high energy bar (innovative cocktails, too). Go for the many entertainment offerings through the week. Don’t go looking for a quiet gourmet meal… it’s all about moderately-priced fun dining here, glocal music (sufi rock, etc) too. They take their name seriously. 
 
