THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Just five days prior to his retirement date on April 29, overseer of Kerala water authority R Ashok was asked to review the works to bring water from   reservoir to  . Ashok, who is now retired, still travels around 40km daily to reach Neyyar to lead the works. Shattering the pre-conceived notion about government officials, around 100 odd workers of  , irrigation department and the   are working round the clock to bring water to the city at the time of serious drinking water crisis. 

 When the proposal to bring water from Neyyar, which was earlier implemented in 1976, was mooted in the mid-April, it was touted as impractical and a wastage of money. However, the strong will and dedicated service has turned an ‘impossible’ proposal a reality.
 
 Within 12 days, the irrigation department arranged two dredgers, cut roads to bring in dredger, cleaned a narrow canal while KWA laid pipes in around 720 metres, arranged pumps etc and started successfully pumping around 60 million litres of water to Aruvikkara.
 
 KWA initially planned to use its 100hp pumps and floating pumps to take water from Neyyar. After realizing that there will be delay in procuring floating pumps, water resources minister Mathew T Thomas asked irrigation department to bring its dredger. The irrigation department also brought a second dredger from Travancore Cements limited. KWA, meanwhile, laid 700mm and 800mm ductile iron pipes to connect KWA pumps with canal and two 200mm pipes and a 600mm one to connect the dredger with Kumbilmoodu canal. These were laid in around 720 metres. Irrigation department had a tough time reviving the old canal, as many of the portions were narrowed due to encroachment. Tarpaulin sheets were laid in several areas to prevent loss of water through smaller channels. The entire 10km distance between Neyyar and Aruvikkara was cleared within two days. Concern of water loss through seepage was alleviated to a great extend when it rained heavy at Neyyar on Monday and Tuesday. 
 
 “I lived on government money for 33 years. I see this as once in a lifetime opportunity. Most of the employees are working in odd hours, some working continuously throughout day and night,” said Ashok, who is working post-retirement. 
 
 P S Vinod, assistant engineer of irrigation department, said that bringing dredgers and lowering them, each weighing over 100 tonnes, was a tedious task. “Now when the pumping is normalized, we feel great satisfaction. We are unable to count the number of hours we invested to gets things ready. Some works went futile, like when we dug up an entire road only to realize that dredger could not be lowered to the portion due to dipping water level. However, we felt great after getting appreciation from minister and higher officials,” he said.
 
 
