THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health officials in the state government have said that they will not intervene in the private sector with regard to prescribing generic drugs in the place of branded drugs. Private sector caters to the healthcare needs of almost 75% of patients in the state.

 “We won't be intervening in the private sector. But when it comes to government hospitals we have decided that all the generic drugs supplied through Karunya will be drugs that are assessed by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certified labs,“ said additional secretary (health)  .
 
 Generic drugs are identical to branded drugs in their chemical composition, dosage, safety, strength, quality and performance characteristics.
 
 But medical practitioners consider a similar directive by the state government asking doctors to adhere to generic names as a failed experiment.
 
 In September, 2013, the Kerala government made it mandatory for doctors to prescribe only generic drugs in all governmentrun hospitals starting from primary health centres to medical colleges. The   was asked to procure drugs from manufacturers under generic names for distribution to government hospitals.
 
 Dr Kavitha Ravi, state president of Kerala Medical College Teachers Association said prescribing generic names is difficult because, unlike the branded drugs, not all combinations are available in the market. Drugs which have patent and monopoly are not available in the generic category . Around 40 cancer drugs are also not available.
 
 “If the government can ensure the availability of proven generic drugs then the physicians will be willing,“ said Dr Kavitha Ravi.
 
 Contrary to the perception, it is not the generic drugs alone that fail quality tests. “Both branded and generic drugs have failed in tests and these batches of drugs have been withdrawn from the hospitals,“ said Ravi S Menon, state drugs controller. Both   and state drugs control department are conducting random checking of samples purchased for the government supply , he said.
 
 The generic drugs are coming to the state only for government supply through   or for ESI hospitals. All other pharmacies in the state are dealing in branded drugs.
 
 Doctors said the government should provide branded drugs free of cost to the BPL families rather than insisting on prescription of generic names. “With the new pharma pricing policy, the cost of drugs has considerably come down. Instead of providing quality drugs why should we even think of giving drugs that are manufactured by unknown companies,'' said Dr Sulphi.
 
 At present, the Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSCL) is procuring drugs from manufacturers for supply through Karunya stores free-of-cost. For all the free drug supply schemes the KMSCL procures them under generic names, but for government hospitals, branded drugs are also made available, said Dr Dilip Kumar, general manager of Kerala Medical Services Corporation.
 
 But he is of the opinion that prescription of generic names can be made mandatory if the Centre can ensure quality. Most countries are totally dependent on generic drug combination. But a fear factor is preventing us to adopt them in our life, said Dr Dilip Kumar.
 
