MUMBAI: Medical aspirants across the country are gearing for yet another chaotic admission season as the   restrained the CBSE from continuing with evaluation and declaration of   results till June 7.

 A petition, seeking the national-level test be held again, s pending in the court and students are dreading its outcome. The petitioners have claimed the questions in regional languages were different from those in English and therefore defeat the purpose of a uniform entrance test.
 
 While students agree with the petitioner, not many are in favour of a re-test. Parents fear that pushing students too far may force them to change their career option.
 
 Sudha Shenoy, parent of an aspirant said, “Students are not in a state of mind to appear or a re-test. Many are on the verge of changing field or going abroad if NEET is held again. All this is because of the incompetency of CBSE which set different question papers in regional languages.“
 
 Even if there is no re-test, results will be delayed as evaluation has been stalled by the court, said parents. This in turn will further delay admission dates.
 
  was planning to start the process on June 9, a day after results were initially expected to be out. Its director,  , said the court case may delay the admission process now. “We intended to start the academic session by August 1, which may not happen,“ he said.
 
 Rujul Shah, a student from Aurangabad, said, “ I am not keen on a re-test.Why should students pay a price for a mistake committed by the authorities?“
 
 
 
 
 The Supreme Court refused on Thursday to grant an urgent hearing on a plea seeking quashing of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) conducted on May 7 for admission to MBBS and BDS courses. Filed by NGO Sankalp Charitable Trust, the petition alleged that the question paper of NEET was leaked on the examination date and pleaded the court to direct CBSE to conduct a fresh test. It alleged that the question paper was leaked at one of the centres in Patna and it was circulated to aspiring medical students in different parts of the country in return for money. 
 
 
 
