CHENNAI: Roughly two and a half years ago, Tamil Nadu pacer   was engulfed by doubts over his future as he found himself out of action for two months due to a shin strain while representing   in the TNCA first division league.

 Turn 2017, Vignesh, with 37 wickets under his belt in his maiden first-class season, is gearing up for the Irani Cup as he has been picked in the Rest of India squad.
 
 Overcoming those days of "uncertainty" made Vignesh the tough character that he is now on the field. "I was only into my second season in TNCA first division circuit. It was my first stint with Jolly Rovers. After the second match, I suffered a shin strain. Though it wasn't a career threatening one, doubts crept in my mind as I was out of action for two months. I was afraid thinking what if I don't play again. There were a lot of uncertainities," Vignesh told TOI.
 
 Vignesh stresses on the "trust" factor for his success. Be it former India cricketer   (in charge of Chemplast teams Jolly Rovers and Alwarpet), Rovers' coaches   and Jaikumar, the legendary   and Senthilnathan at the   or TN coaches  ,   and captain  , all have shown their faith in the 22-year-old and he hasn't let them down.
 
 "Whomsoever I had worked with, played for and spoken about my game trusted me and my abilities. Bharath sir, Ajay and Jaikumar monitored me closely when I was injured. I doubted whether I would be able to comeback stronger. But they handled the situation superbly.
 "When I was at the MRF camp, Senthil and McGrath mentored me on how to overcome injuries. They explained that it was part and parcel of life. Those words really pushed me," said Vignesh, who met McGrath at the MRF Pace Foundation to discuss about his progress on January 10.
 
 Vignesh, who picked up nine wickets including a five-for on his first-class debut at Lahli, had to be sidelined for TN's fourth match of the season due to "team combination."
 
 However, he bounced back in the very next game at Raipur taking a five-wicket haul against Baroda to help TN register a crucial win.
 
 "The coaches clearly told me that it was about the team combination. Sitting out wasn't my fault and there were a lot of senior cricketers like Malolan, Aushik and Rahil who had to sit out due to combination factors. I understood it and made sure I worked even harder when I was benched," he added.
 
 Vignesh mentioned that Kanitkar's "motivational" words and Balaji's "practical" thought process helped the young TN pace attack immensely.
 
 "Kanitkar didn't treat me like a debutant and gave me amazing confidence. Ahead of the quarterfinals against Karnataka, as a bowling group we were under a bit of pressure knowing that we were up against a champion side. He told us that it's been the bowlers who have been doing it for the team and that we have to make sure we cross the line.
  
 "Bala talks mostly practical things. His inputs on how to use the first hour in Nagpur wicket..how to persist to a particular line and length throughout the day in Lahli….He would tell what has to be done, when to do it and what will be the outcome. It's not just about technical stuff. He will assess things quickly and come up with ideas. A lot of people can do things, but they can't express it properly to youngsters. But Bala is superb in that aspect," he added.
 
 Vignesh, who has bowled 295 overs in 17 innings this season, said skipper Abhinav used his pace attack tactfully.
 
 "We share a terrific rapport. Abhinav knew when to use us and how far to stretch our spells. My strength is to bowl long spells. But every time, I would ask him if I can bowl further, he would prevent me from doing it in the first or second session. I understood, when he did so, then I had to probably do some bowling at the end of the day.
 
 "There were times, when he would let me bowl longish spells. It's the same with Aswin (Crist) or Natarajan. He has been amazing in the manner in which he rotated us," Vignesh added.
 The right-arm pacer said the Rest of India call up was a surprise for him.
 
 "I didn't expect it actually. It was a surprise. Right from the beginning, I was just taking it wicket by wicket. It was always about improving in each phase. I just wanted to carry forward the momentum I gained from TNCA league last year and TNPL to the Ranji Trophy," he added.
 
