PANAJI:  , even those using zebra crossings, puts the latter in great peril on the capital’s streets. The white lines prominently marked on the tarred black roads are supposed to be a pathway for pedestrians to get across busy roads, yet two and four-wheelers in   are often seen driving over them without stopping to let those on foot pass.

 “The   cell must install a camera here to fine vehicles that don’t stop for pedestrians to cross,” said an irate Donia D’Souza from Caranzalem who managed to cross the 18th June  , near Junta House only after multiple attempts, on Wednesday evening.
 
 Makeup artist Sonam Korgaonkar said, “It is easier to cross highways than the city roads, such is the apathy of motorists in the absence of traffic police. I have to wait for quite sometime for the road to clear and have to wave a hand at the cars to make them stop, while I cross. This is not the way for traffic and pedestrians to function.”
 
 A similar situation is witnessed at busy junctions like Panaji jetty and near Mall de Goa in Porvorim where constant traffic flow during peak hours leaves pedestrians waiting for as long as 20 minutes to cross a road which is only a few metres wide.
 
 “The transport department and the PWD are neglecting our roads. Traffic rules have to be taken seriously for   safety,” said P Parsekar.
 
 With those on foot not having the right of way at busy traffic intersections in the heart of Panaji, the state capital comes off as a pedestrian-unfriendly place.
 
 Even tourists who prefer to traverse the city on foot are snubbed when attempting to cross road along zebra crossing lines.
 
 “People in Goa never stop their vehicles for others to cross, even if it is an elderly person. Traffic police need to be posted at key junctions to ensure citizens can cross roads safely,” said Rajiv Sinha, a retired banker.
 
 When TOI brought this to the attention of the transport department, a senior official admitted to the problem and said that they don’t have enough manpower to be able to deploy officers at every zebra crossing.
 
 “Through CSR activity of business/IT companies, however, motion sensor traffic signals can be installed at zebra crossings. The device displays the traffic stop sign the moment a pedestrian needs to cross. We have to sensitize the public that such a device can be installed that synchronizes the approach of a person to a zebra crossing and gives priority to them to cross,” he said.
 
 He also said that it is the duty of civic bodies to take the initiative of painting zebra lines wherever required.
 
 “The municipalities and panchayats should put up a proposal for zebra-crossing in their respective areas and utilize their funds for this purpose. Long lasting thermoplastic paint must be used to paint the lines so that they don’t easily fade off over time,” he said.
 
 Legal provisions protecting pedestrians in India
 
 Rules of Road Regulation (1989) for pedestrians or their right of way are —
 
 Rule 8: It is the duty of a driver to slow down when approaching a pedestrian crossing
 
 Rule 15: No driver can park a motor vehicle near a traffic light or on a pedestrian crossing or a footpath
 
 Rule 11: Motor vehicles are not allowed to drive on footpaths or cycle lanes except with permission from police officer on duty
 
