Coimbatore:   representatives, who are members of the Construction and Unorganised Labourer’s Monitoring Committee, turned up at the district collectorate on Monday demanding a   with the district collector.   TN Hariharan, despite being the chairman of the committee, has not attended its meetings for the last eight months, they alleged.

 The representatives had turned up at the collectorate on Monday morning to attend the grievances day meeting. “The government had set up the committee to take care of the interests of unorganised workers. It is expected to meet once a month. The chairman of the committee is the district collector and the secretary is the district labour officer. The other seven members are the district social welfare officer, deputy labour commissioner, a member of the medical board and other trade union representatives,” said R Velusamy, secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).
 
 “The collector has not attended the committee meetings for the last eight months. For six of the eight months, the meetings were conducted by the revenue divisional officer of the district. Last month, when we insisted that the collector attend the meeting, it was cancelled,” said Velusamy.
 
 “This month, the collector’s office sent us a notice stating that a meeting would be held on Monday at 3pm. However, on Friday evening, we got a call informing us that the meeting is cancelled. So, we wanted to meet him in person and address our concerns,” he told TOI.
 
 As the collector was not attending the meetings, many critical orders regarding fund distribution were not passed, Velusamy said. “We have not received education aid for the year 2015-16. We were not allowed to apply for it for the year 2016-17. Pensions for those who are above the age of 60 years has not been cleared for the last two years. Compensation for accidental and natural deaths are also pending. All these funds can be released only if the collector orders the specific department officer to do so. In his absence, no orders are passed, neither are instructions given,” Velusamy added.
 
 
