KOLKATA: Nawab Kothi, the three-storeyed century-old red brick house that the government has ordered to be razed down “immediately” after a 15-hour fire damaged most of the building, had played host to the likes of India’s first Prime Minister   and former Bengal governor  .

 With the building now labelled “unsafe” and to be pulled down with immediate effect, a piece of Kolkata’s history is also on the brink of being wiped off the city.
 
 Built in 1895 by  , who was a zamindar in the area having cordial relations with the British, the house was built on an area of 20,000 square feet that boasted a clear view of the river in those days. “The house was built in Portugese design and a Portugese architect also designed the building,” said Ashraf Ariff, one of the descendants of the family.
 
 Ashraf, 77, said Kasim’s forefathers were descendants of   and the British used to refer to him as “His Highness”. The family was even friends with the Nehrus and had later participated in civil disobedience and non-cooperation movements.
 
 “My father was a senior IB officer and a friend of Pandit Nehru, and he had visited this house on more than one occasion even when he was Prime Minister,” said Ashraf, who nows stays in a Theatre Road apartment. In 1964, during the Kolkata riots, Bengal governor Padmaja Naidu set up a special police control room on the first floor of the house for several days, he added.
 
 “The rooms have antique mahogany or Burma teak furniture, and a potpourri of zamindari and colonial tapestries, lithographs, curios and floor lamps. Even the stairs, that have burnt down in the fire, were of Burma teak and the entire flooring was of imported Italian marble,” added another member of the family, who stays in the same building. She added that the building had 65 rooms, with a 3500 square-foot “jalsaghar” on the top floor.
 
 As of now, the building is the property of the state Wakf Board, with three “Mutwallis” (caretakers) — Md Kasim Ariff, Shahzad Ali and Sikandar Ariff. According to KMC records, the building is registered as a residential property, with no mention of any tenants.
 
 But in reality, five families with 26 members used to live in the third floor and the ground floor, first floor and even a portion of the top floor was rented out to tenants, more than 70 in number.
 
 “Since my wedding in the Seventies, I have been seeing the tenants,” said Nusrat Ariff, 72, who used to live in the eastern part of the house on the second floor. “Since then, more members of the family have left the house, renting it out to tenants.”
 
