NAGPUR: To ensure children   to schools, the   is set to inspect   in a drive from May.

 An RTO official added that the vehicles’ inspection is free of cost and no authority can demand any kind of money for the purpose. “The school bus licence holders should be a part of this inspection drive which is being organized between 10am and 5pm. The drive is mandatory for all school buses, whether they are private operators or owned by the school itself,” the official said.
 
 The official added that though the schools are given  , attendance at this inspection drive is mandatory.
 
 Nagpur regional transport officer Sharad Jichkar said the special drive will be conducted in schools across the city and district before the start of next academic session. Currently, the city RTO has issued 758 school bus permits, while the east office has 996 permits. 
 
 The school bus transport rules which came into effect in March 2011, stipulate various regulations for school buses, operators, transport department and school authorities. The rules apply to all vehicles with a seating capacity of more than 12 but does not apply to autorickshaws engaged in ferrying schoolchildren.
 
 An official said that school buses in operation should not be over eight years from its registration date. “These buses should be fitted with speed governors limiting 40 kmph within the city limits. In other areas, it should not exceed 50 kmph,” he said. But most buses violate this norm. 
 
 The rules also state that the transport contractor should employ woman attendants for girls as well as co-ed schools. Separate uniforms should be provided to the drivers, female as well as male attendants or cleaners for  . But in most cases, the rule is not adhered to. Another mandatory rule often flouted is the availability of first aid and firefighting kit in the school bus.
 
 The official said that compliance to all these rules is necessary as per bus safety norms. “Apart from the RTO, schools should keep a strict vigil about the condition of buses operating on its premises,” the official added.
 
 
