CHENNAI: Around one and half years after ordering deployment of the Central Industrial Security Force ( ) to insulate the Madras high court campus from external and internal disturbances, the higher judiciary seems to be having a rethink on the issue.

 On Monday, when former president of the Madras High Court Advocates Association (MHAA) R C Paul Kanagaraj argued for revocation of suspension of nine advocates, the first bench of Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice RMT Teeka Raman questioned the need for the force, for which the   government is paying Rs 32 crore per year towards salary component alone.
 
 “I have been in this court for about a year now, and there are no terrorist activities warranting the CISF,” said Justice Ramesh, adding that a court premises was for the general public and it should not be like court martial. 
 
 “If the Centre is keen to provide high security to the court, why should the state government pay? Also, if any law and order problem arises, it is for the local police to manage. Everywhere in India, only the respective state police is managing courts,” the bench said.
 
 When assistant solicitor general of India Su Srinivasan pointed out that the Delhi high court was under CISF security, the bench said, “May be, it is required there because Delhi is nearer to Pakistan.”
 
 Paul Kanagaraj said the state paid Rs 66 crore as salary for the CISF last year and added that accommodation and infrastructure were additional expenses. He said there was no need to remove the infrastructure, but it could be occupied by state police personnel. “Legal fraternity will fully cooperate with state police,” Kanagaraj said.
 
 Advocate Elephant G Rajendran, however, said the state government should not adopt a double standard in the matter and added that the chief secretary of Tamil Nadu had written to the Centre saying it was unable to manage  . 
 
 After the Justice Ramesh suggested that Rajendran could move the Supreme Court with regard to payment of Rs 66 crore by the Tamil Nadu government for the court security, the latter said he would do so.
 
 Additional advocate general C Manishankar furnished a report and photographs of the under construction frisking points of the CISF on court campus.
 
 The case has now been posted to the first week of June for further proceedings.
 
 
