 Day 94 on   begins with housemates teasing   that there is bird shit on her hair. Bindu immediately jumps and checks in the mirror, only to find that the housemates are kidding. Later, Bigg Boss asks housemates to split into two groups and asks them stand on a pole set up in the swimming pool. While   and Bindu are part of one team;   and   are part of another. Ganesh is the judge for the event. Arav and Bindu first take part in the task. In the meantime, Snehan whips up a quick lunch. After an hour, Bigg Boss asks them to stand using one leg and one hand for support. But, Bindu and Arav don’t sustain for a long run. By the time, it’s the turn of Snehan and Harish to take part. Snehan wins the task. In the meantime, Anjali and Balloon team sends chocolate cakes and ice cream to the housemates. 
 Bigg Boss assigns task to the housemates where they have to play Tic Tac Toe. This time around, Snehan and Harish are part of one team, while Ganesh and Snehan are in the other. Arav is the judge. Housemates are assigned cloth pieces of different colour and they are asked to play the game by dropping the clothes in the boxes. Ganesh’s team wins this one. Later, Bigg Boss sends a cheque for Rs 30,000 for both Snehan and Arav for winning the games. 
  
 In the evening, Bigg Boss sends Rs 10, 00, 000 prize money for the housemates. He says that whoever wants to leave the house, can take this money and the amount will be deducted from the title winn 
  er’s amount. However, none of the housemates agree to take the money and say that they prefer to stay in the house. After some time, Bigg Boss sends Rs 11, 00, 000 and asks if any of the housemates prefer to leave now. However, they remain firm in their decision. 
 
 Bigg Boss later asks housemates to play the thief game once again. And, this time around, Harish is asked to play the thief. Housemates play the guessing game on who could be the thief. While Bindu suspects Ganesh and Harish, Arav suspects Snehan. Arav says that if Ganesh was the thief, he would be ex tra cautious and that one could find it easily. Housemates sleep in the living room where the diamond is stored. At midnight, Arav takes the diamond and keeps it back in the tray. Early in the morning, Harish manages to steal the diamond. At 5 am, alarm goes off and all housemates are up. They start suspecting each other. 
 
 
