Ramanathapuram: A Pakistani national who had sneaked into the country in May for narcotics trade on an illegal ferry from Sri Lanka was nabbed at Erwadi in the district on Saturday. Interrogation by the Erwadi dargah police revealed that he had travelled across the country and had used two duplicate copies of Aadhaar cards to book rooms in lodges. 

 According to police sources, Mohammed Yunus, 65, from Karachi, was a narcotics dealer though he projected himself as a nuts trader with business connections in Sri Lanka. Three months ago, he arrived in the island nation on a smuggling trip and impressed his Sri Lankan agent with his ability to speak multiple languages like Tamil, English, Gujarati, Urdu and Sinhalese. Subsequently, he was assigned the task of collecting two cases of brown sugar from an agent at Ahmedabad in Gujarat.
 
 The Sri Lankan agent collected his passport, handed him US $ 400 and sent him out on an illegal ferry. He reached Ammapattinam beach in Pudukottai district on May 2 from where he embarked on a long journey. He travelled to Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Ajmer in Rajasthan. “The Ahmedabad agent could not deliver the narcotic consignments as promised and asked him to return. So he called the Sri Lankan agent asking him to arrange a ferry back to Sri Lanka”, said a Q branch official who interrogated him.
 
 The agent in turn got in touch with some people in Keezhakarai to arrange an illegal ferry. Meanwhile, Yunus reached Erwadi dargah on July 13 and managed to book a room in a lodge named Jamruth Mahal. Based on a tip-off from an informer, Erwadi dargah police nabbed him on Saturday. Initially, he was suspected to be a Sri Lankan and Q branch help was sought to unravel the mystery. Further investigation by the Q branch revealed that he was actually a Pakistani narcotics dealer.
 
 Intriguingly, Yunus managed to get two duplicate Aadhaar cards made, one with a Bihar address and another on Keezhakarai address. In the Keezhakarai address he was identified as Jamal, son of Kulkarni, while the Bihar address had his name as Tamannah. His photograph was found pasted on another person’s Aadhaar card and he had photocopies of it, the sources said. 
 
 During the arrest, he was in possession of Pakistani currency worth Rs 2,660, Sri Lankan currency for Rs 2,520 and US $100. Two mobile phones and six sim cards were also seized. “Although he was innocent by his looks, he was a hard nut to crack. He was not giving away information and police had to grill him to get each word. It was an experience we used to have while investigating hardened criminals,” a police officer said.
 
 Upon securing him, Erwadi dargah police booked Yunus under Indian Penal Code 465 and 468 for forgery, 471 for fraudulently forging a genuine document, 419 for cheating and impersonation and 420 for cheating. Section 14 of Foreigners Act 1946 and 3 (a), 6 (a) of passport entry to India rules 1950 for illegally entering the country were also slapped on him. He was produced before Judicial Magistrate Paramakudi who is in-charge of Ramanathapuram JM and has since been remanded. The magistrate has sent him to Ramanathapuram prison but he may be shifted to Puzhal after obtaining the necessary documentation, police said. Along with Yunus, Syed Abutahir, 23, and Abdul Ajees, 26, from Erwardi were also arrested for assisting him with illegal ferry. They have been booked for criminal conspiracy and abetment of 6 (a) of passport act, police said. 
 
 
