KOLKATA: The city has once again lived up to its reputation of being the country’s premier sports-loving city with the first bunch of   for the Fifa under-17   matches at   getting ‘sold out’ within 18 hours of being made available online.

 A limited number of venue packs — tickets for all matches at a particular venue — for all six cities went on sale at 7.11pm on Tuesday. By Wednesday afternoon, tickets for the   — 17,124 to be precise — were all booked, while tickets for New Delhi, Navi Mumbai, Goa, Kochi and Guwahati were still available.
 
 With the organisers offering a 60% discount on tickets in this first phase of sale, the venue packs for   were priced at Rs 480, Rs 960 and Rs 1920. 
 
 The football-crazy people of Bengal were not ready to let go of the opportunity to watch 10 matches, including the final, at such a reasonable price and logged in without delay.
 
 It is learnt that the number of Salt Lake Stadium tickets already sold are 10,536 (of Rs 480 denomination), 5,580 (Rs 960) and 1,008 (Rs 1,920).
 
 Several thousand fans, however, took to the social media to express their disappointment after failing to book tickets for the matches in Kolkata. Consequently, the organizing committee of the under-17 World Cup is exploring the option of making more tickets in the same price band available for sale.
 
 Tournament director Javier Ceppi is happy with the early response to ticket sales.
 
 “We were told that India was not a country where pre-sales would work and this is the empirical evidence to the contrary. To have sold out the inventory we had put in place in Kolkata and have strong sales in other cities speak volumes about how interested the country is about football and the Fifa U-17 World Cup India 2017. This craze is unheard of and we truly feel that we will accomplish the goal of having full stadia for the tournament,” he said.
 
 Ticket sales for other venues have been encouraging as well, with the numbers being especially good for Guwahati and Navi Mumbai.
 
 
