COIMABTORE: Signs of former chief minister J   Deepa's growing clout in the   bastion of western Tamil Nadu emerged on Wednesday with two former MLAs openly declaring their support to her. 

 Former Coimbatore south MLA T Malaravan, who also had a stint as mayor of  , and former Pollachi MLA V P Chandrasekar said they have decided to join the party to be floated by Deepa. Both blamed the party's new general secretary V K Sasikala and her family for leaving AIADMK. "How can we let a family with no credibility take over a party built by MGR and Amma?'' asked Malaravan. 
 
 The two are the first among senior AIADMK functionaries to extend support to Deepa openly. Malaravan and Chandrasekar, who have a decades-long association with AIADMK, had been sidelined over the past few years without any prominent posts. Their decision would have little impact on the party apparatus but would make a dent on Sasikala's image.
 
 Malaravan, who started as a flower merchant, had joined the party in 1972 and grew up in the rank and file to become mayor and then MLA. The name Malaravan was given to him by MG Ramachandran. "We have worked so hard in various capacities and built this party. But after Amma's death, the party position has gone haywire. Only Deepa can save cadres of AIADMK,'' he said.
 
 V P Chandrasekar said he was in the party since its inception and was with Jayalalithaa during the split in 1989. "In 1989 too, none of the MLAs or ministers were on our side. But the cadres were with us supporting Amma. A similar situation prevails now where ministers and MLAs are with Sasikala but cadres are against her,'' he said.
 
 Chandrasekar said that he would meet Deepa before February 24, when she would announce her next political move. Malaravan too said he would be meeting Deepa shortly.
 
 "Though she has no political experience, she has studied political science and will learn with experience. Every leader has to begin from scratch,'' he said.
 
 AIADMK leaders in the region however brushed aside the development stating that both Malaravan and Chandrasekar were switching sides hoping for some benefits.
 
  "When Sasikala held a meeting with former MLAs, both had participated. One of them had even given an advertisement in a newspaper supporting Sasikala. Why is it that they have switched loyalties suddenly?'' asked an AIADMK functionary.
 
 "This is a conspiracy by opposition parties hoping to weaken AIADMK,'' he said.
 
 
