PEDONG: The   in the Hills to press for separate state of   will continue, it was decided unanimously in an all-party meeting on Thursday though representative of one of the stakeholders had stressed upon the need of a relaxation in an interview to TOI earlier in the week.

 Thursday's decision means that the Hills will have to endure the stifling shutdown at least till July 18 when the stakeholders meet again to review the shutdown.
 
 The meeting in the girls' hostel of St George's School in Pedong, almost 20 kms uphill from Kalimpong, was attended by all the hill parties except the Trinamool Congress. “Representatives of all the parties who attended the meeting have decided that the indefinite strike will continue for the time being. All of us will meet again on July 18 to review the situation,“ said Kalyan Diwan, convener of Gorkhaland Movement Coordination Committee.
 
 It was also decided that every aspect of life will fall under the ambit of the shutdown.“Even the schools are not exempted,“ said Diwan. Gorkha Janmukti Morcha spokesperson   said three sub committees were formed to aid the movement and tackle several issues from the internet ban to human rights violation. 
 
 “The legal cell will look into how we can continue with our demand and escalate it within the ambit of the constitutional framework. The human rights cell will prepare a report on the human rights violation by the police and the administration during the entire agitation.There will also be a data research and analysis team that will look into the internet ban,“ said Tamang.
 
 The   president Mann Ghisingh had said on Wednesday that though Gorkhaland was the sole agenda of their party, there was a need to relax the bandh to allow people to stock up on things of daily need.
 
 The frustration has started to show as the strike entered its 22nd day on Thursday. A crowd of 3,000 people had gathered outside the venue of the all party meeting in Kalimpong on June 28 and demanded the state of Gorkhaland and stressed that the strike continued. But on Thursday, there were many people who favoured a relaxation.
 
