Etawah/ Mainpuri: When   took the mic at the Raj Bahadur Degree College grounds in Lakhna block, the crowd was weary, though not thinned, waiting for over four hours under a baking sun. But barely did he start speaking and the crowd seemed energised, laughter and guffaws rent the air. Talking about uncle Shivpal’s failed bid to “snatch” the “cycle” from him, Akhilesh turned to a youngster and said: “bhaiyya, agar cycle chali jati to hamare paas bas chabhi aur Dimple bhabhi hi bachti (Had I lost the cycle, I would’ve been left with just the keys and Dimple bhabhi).” 

 Nobody remembers having laughed at a Mulayam rally during his three decade sway over UP’s politics. The change of occupant on the SP throne has also brought a shift in style and substance of Yadav politics. Their manners are chalk and cheese. 
 
 Never an orator, Mulayam is pedantic to the point of being boring — the blasphemous would say snoring. A direct product and beneficiary of Mandal politics, he’s all about caste. He’s known to call out names of communities and seek pledge of support. Muslims figure prominently in his speeches. But MSY is one up on rivals on two fronts — his first-mover advantage on the OBC plank and his bonding with workers. 
 
 Tales abound about how he remembers workers by name in every block. Akhilesh is no orator either. But he doesn’t talk caste and religion as much and dwells on development. Where he has people interested even on a hot day are his jokes, interspersed with his aspirational-speak in a disarmingly boyish voice. The Bharthana speech was littered with so many that the hard political message – an attack on Shivpal and a call to Yadav pride – were delivered without rancour or identity appeal.
 
 That’s delivering a “sweet pill”. Whether it will work will be known in less than a month. Across central UP, where caste and strongarm tactics are a byword for politics, the Yadav scion is seen as a radical change. 
 
 The effect: From Akhilesh’s Bharthana dais, Kamlesh Katheria was hawked as “smart, seedha (simple) and nischhal (innocent).” When were these seen as qualities in a Chambal neta? By no means will politics of caste aggregation disappear with just a generational makeover. It may not even be the plan. Warnings come from people who insist on underlining that “Akhilesh is born in Mulayam’s family, grounded in the same politics”. But the Yadav GenNext seems to have thought deeper, following the BJP bulldozer in the 2014 LS polls — “Hindutva appeal” trumps all when packaged as development. 
 
 Caste cannot stay stagnant amid a rise in the aspirational bloc possibly being in the same frame as Congress and   helps soften the rough edges of Mulayam’s era. Backing Akhilesh, Avinash Chaurasia makes a telling observation. “If   is also talking development, it is clear netas are being pushed by changing time.” In the feudal landscape of OBC-heartland politics, Akhilesh surprises in many ways. He’s deployed wife Dimple as campaigner around Lucknow. But in Chambal, where electioneering is an exclusively male activity, he doesn’t mind bringing her in, in jest. The long-drawn UP election is potholed with imponderables. But where the state seems to have changed for good is the grammar and syntax of Yadav politics.
 
