NEW DELHI: A former state-level cricketer, an ex-Paytm employee and a BPO executive came together to float a fake   and dupe customers of nationalised banks by fraudulently using their credit and debit  .

 The   members would extract the target’s one-time-password in the 10-minute time-frame on the pretext of processing free cashback on their card. They even transferred Rs 10 in the account to win their trust. The accused opened a number of Paytm wallets using fake SIM cards to receive and further transfer the stolen money.
 
 The call centre was being run from rented premises in Sagarpur. The gang had employed around 10 tele-callers, most of them women, on a monthly salary of Rs 10,000. The arrested cricketer has been identified as Gaurav (24) and his accomplices are Pramod (28), Mohit (21), Atul (24) and Varun (30). 
 
 The gang allegedly duped around 200 people this year of lakhs of rupees.
 
 The cops swung into action after Kuldeep Sharma, a resident of Dwarka sector 17, filed a complaint that he was cheated of Rs 50,000. In his statement, Sharma said he received a call from a woman who introduced herself as an employee of State Bank of India. She told him that he had accumulated bonus reward points on his   and that he could redeem these via his Paytm account. Buying her story, Sharma divulged details of his card to the caller. Shortly after she disconnected the call, the money was deducted from his account in six successive transactions.
 
 DCP (southwest) Surendra Kumar said a special team, led by   Rajender Singh and inspectors Vijay Chandel and Jasmohinder, was formed to track down the suspects and an FIR was registered.
 
 “The team collected details of cell phones used in the crime and followed the money trail. They contacted Paytm authorities to get details of transactions held in the account of the victim. After a thorough probe, the team rounded up Pramod, who led the team to three of his accomplices. The call centre was eventually raided,” Kumar said. Varun, who supplied the gang with pre-activated SIM cards, was also arrested.
 
 Gaurav, the team leader, procured the data of SBI customers from a person named Ajay. The arrested tele-callers, Atul and Mohit, and a woman named Jenny were key players in the racket. Cops are hunting for Ajay and Jenny.
 
 The racket was run in such an organised manner that unsuspecting tele-callers had no idea that they were being used for some nefarious designs. After procuring the leads, the gang members took over if a customer was found vulnerable. They provided three-day training to the employees to deal with customers. The tele-callers were even provided with a handwritten script of the conversation they were supposed to have, police said.
 
 
