MUMBAI: In the hierarchy of elections, municipal polls are generally considered a lowly third, after Lok Sabha and assembly. But the very bitter falling-out between allies   and   had already injected a strong element of both political and personal drama into the elections to the BMC, the country’s richest civic body, which the Thackerays have controlled for two consecutive decades. That the interest of Mumbaikars had been piqued was evident from the 55%-plus turnout on Tuesday—the highest in at least 25 years and higher than even the 2014 LS elections. 

 Maharashtra chief minister Devendra   had all but staked his reputation—many said rashly—on the outcome of civic polls across the state, more so in India’s financial capital. And the first two-three hours of counting of votes on Thursday seemed to suggest that he had, indeed, gambled foolishly. Nothing, it seemed, could come in the way of Sena from extending its reign in Mumbai to a quarter of a century.
 
 And then, fortune began to swing in favour of the brave. As the BJP’s tally began to climb relentlessly, what had looked like a one-sided game turned into a last-ball cliffhanger —transfixing the attention of a previously ‘politically apathetic’ city.
 
 Uddhav Thackeray’s party, which had said the BJP didn’t deserve more than 60 seats in a seat-sharing pact, ended as the single largest party but by just a couple of seats ahead of its estranged ally.
 
 , which ran a high-decibel campaign against rampant corruption and lack of transparency in the Sena-dominated corporation, richly harvesting the anti-incumbency vote despite having been a junior partner in the ruling civic alliance.
 
 The results are a major boost to the BJP, which swept eight out of 10 corporations in the state that went to the polls, and a serious setback for the Sena in its bastion Mumbai where it was born in 1966. Though it held on to its Marathi votebank, it failed to come within striking distance of the majority mark of 114 in a house of 227 and was matched in tantalizing fashion, as the day of counting progressed, seat for seat, by the BJP which drew heavily on Gujarati-Marwari and North Indian votes and a section of the Marathi-speaking population as well.
 
 But with the two parties falling 28 and 30 seats short of 227, all eyes are now on the possible permutations and combinations that could help one of them win the mayoral election, unless they now choose to bury the hatchet and join hands.
 
 The Congress, which was decimated across the city, managing just 31 seats, the NCP with 9, Raj Thackeray’s MNS with 7, and the Yadavs’ Samajwadi Party with 6, all become important in a hung house with both BJP and Sena trying to draw some to their side.
 
 The Sena maintained its grip on areas with a Maharashtrian majority, bagging 19 of 35 seats in south-central Mumbai and reclaiming key seats in Dadar (which the MNS had won last time). It swept Naigaum, Parel and Lalbaug where it won six of seven wards. Similarly, in areas like Prabhadevi and Worli, it won all seven seats.
 
 The tough battle between Sena heavyweight Vishakha Raut and MNS’s Swapna Deshpande in Dadar saw Raut take home the saffron pheta (turban). Nana Ambole, who defected from Sena to BJP and his wife Tejaswini tasted bitter defeat from first-time Sena candidate Sindhu Masurkar in Parel-Lalbaug. “Citizens have voted for me to teach a lesson to people like Ambole who leave the party for personal gain,” Masurkar said.
 
 The suburbs, whose voting trends became clear after the Sena’s pre-noon headstart, gave a late but highly impressive surge to the BJP. Both the western and eastern suburbs and chiefly cosmopolitan middle-class and upper-middle-class areas solidly backed the BJP, and the mercantile community steadfastly stuck to the lotus, dispelling notions that ‘notebandi’ might have turned them against Modi’s party.
 
 In the northern suburbs, between Dahisar and Goregaon, the BJP won more than 50% of the seats (32 out of 58), in Ghatkopar East it bagged two out of three, and it swept all six seats in Mulund because of votes from the Gujarati-Kutchi community. BJP candidate Pravin Shah from Borivli won by a whopping 19,580 votes. Congressman Pravin Chheda failed to run past BJP entrepreneur Parag Shah, the richest candidate in the city, who contested an election for the first time.
 
 Of the total 82 seats the party won, 27 corporators have a Gujarati background. The Jains, apparently unhappy with the Sena stance on meat ban during Paryushan, kept their faith with BJP in large numbers.
 
 In another turnabout, the Catholic community of Bandra, Khar and Santacruz, longtime Congress loyalists, brought back merely one Congress corporator. In 2012 four of the six seats here had gone to that party. 
 
 The SP won six seats in Muslim-dominated localities, down three from last time, while the MIM, which made its debut in the civic polls, won two. Two Muslim candidates from the Sena too won, suggesting that a section of Muslim votes went to the Sena. All five Muslim candidates from the BJP lost.
 
 Some big guns of the Sena in the corporation lost their seats. Its possible mayoral candidate Yashodhar Shailesh Phanse, three-time chairperson of the BMC’s standing committee, lost to newcomer Yogiraj Dabhadkar of the BJP. Others such as Trushna Vishwasrao, Devendra Ambekar and Surendra Bagalkar lost by narrow margins.
 
 And as the Mumbai map changed colour through the day to split shades of saffron, just how close the Sena-BJP contest was, was clear from a tie in Kumbharwada, with a lottery finally deciding the winner (BJP).
 
 
