NAVI MUMBAI: In a unique venture to create awareness about the   in the vast swathe of mangroves in the city,   has asked   (BNHS) to advise them about the variety of birds found in the city.

 Civic officials have asked BNHS researchers to conduct, if need be, a survey so that NMMC can put up boards along the wetlands adjoining Palm Beach road.
 
 The boards with a short write-up on the various birds will be put up on the carriageway from Vashi to Koperkhairane. As per NMMC’s annual green report, there are around 168 species of birds in the areas near Airoli, Mulund and far-flung Uran close to the Arabian Sea where the greater and lesser flamingoes are surely to be spotted.
 
 Although, the civic body’s studies pertain to its jurisdiction, the report has a detailed reference to Uran and its flamingo  .
 
 While the wetlands and the Dutch dykes in the city are a natural home for the avian friends, residents in the thickly populated Vashi node often find bats flying in the busy municipal market in sector 16 and owls hooting well past midnight.
 
 “We want to put up the boards to educate the city’s residents about the bird population. This is a unique aspect of Navi Mumbai. We already have boards at the Mini Seashore and gardens disseminating information about the birds flocking that area, but the city roads being cheek by jowl with nests is a truly welcome feature,” said additional municipal commissioner Ankush Chavan.
 
 The vast stretch of Vashi creek (part of Thane creek) connecting the two cities is an abundance of water body besides a thick cover of mangroves with a variety of birds inviting treks for bird lovers. Cattle Egret, Greater Flamingo and Red-wattled Lapwing are found to be jostling with the white bellied Sea Eagle just across the carriageway on the Vashi-Koperkhairane internal road. The initiative has also been aimed at educating people about the need to save the mangroves.
 
 Uran tehsildar Kalpana Gode said the vast wetlands in her jurisdiction are home to hordes of flamingos. There have been disturbing reports about the birds being poached or killed for meat, Gode added.
 
 Range forest officer (mangrove cell), Thane creek flamingo sanctuary, M S Bothe said, “Many birds like the painted stork and black-headed Ibis along with Greater and Lesser Flamingos are regular visitors.”
 
 Veterinary officer Vaibhav Zunjare said, “The boards will be a big help to create awareness about the need to conserve and protect the birds and the mangroves.”
 
 
