GREATER NOIDA: Dadri, the place associated with the beef lynching that shocked India in 2015, will see the lone Muslim woman contesting the assembly polls from GB Nagar.

  (44), a resident of Nai Abadi, has eight sons and daughters and has entered the fray as an Independent, hoping to alter local political equations by winning the seat. Dadri has been in the grip of communal tension since the lynching of Mohammed Akhlaq in Bisada on September 28. A mob had battered him to death on the suspicion that he had consumed beef. Shakila has already launched a people’s connect initiative in local villages. She is, however, yet to visit Bisada, some 8 km away. 
 
 Originally from Gadhi Chaukhandi in G B Nagar, Shakila married Sabir 28 years ago. For all these years, she led an unspectacular life, managing her family. A Class VIII-pass, Shakila says she jumped into the fray when she realised people were suffering from developmental woes. She first started working as a social activist in her neighbourhood, from where she launched her assembly poll dreams “to ensure major change and uplift in living standards of local people”. Up ahead, her path is difficult as her rivals include Satveer Gurjar, BSP’s two-time sitting MLA, BJP’s Tejpal Nagar and SP-Congress alliance candidate Sameer Bhati (Congress).
 
 Shakila has four sons and four daughters. She said in her one and a half years of social activism, she has realised their representatives hardly ever revisit the constituency after getting elected. “This results in neglect and underdevelopment of the area. There are problems of sanitation, availability of potable water and power supply. Youths don’t get education as there are few schools, which leads to unemployment and waste of human resources. The problem is our elected representatives don’t address these issues,” she said.
 
 Shakila lives with her husband and children in a three-room house. Sabir runs a tailoring shop and she sometimes helps him in the work. Her oldest son Sajid completed Class X and started a mobile repair shop. Her second son Talib helps Sajid in his work. Both brothers are helping their mother in her electoral campaign.
 
 In her nomination papers, Shakila has declared Rs 218 as her balance in her sole account in an SBI branch. She also owns gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh, and has a residential plot registered in her name, worth Rs 9 lakh. There are a total of 36 candidates from the district but only two women, Shakila and Sumita Vaid Dixit from Jewar. Both are contesting as independents.
 
