The Nagpur bench of the   on Thursday forced the  , including RJ Shah and Company and D Thakkar Constructions Private Limited, to withdraw their petitions for quashing FIR lodged against them in the Rs70,000 crore scam in Maharashtra's irrigation projects.

 A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Zaka Haq informed the petitioners that it would be rejecting their pleas, as they failed to substantiate on why the police complaints against them should be set aside. The court rejected the application of former divisional officer at Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) Chandan Jibhkate, as he failed to withdraw it.
 
 Those who withdrew the application included Kalindi and Tejaswini Shah, both directors of RJ Shah and Company; Jigar, Vishal and Pravin Thakkar, directors of D Thakkar Constructions; Arun Gupta and former executive engineer Vasudeo Parvate. A battery of lawyers, including senior counsel Anil Mardikar, Anand Parchure, Shashibhushan Wahane and Sangram Sirpurkar, pleaded on behalf of petitioners, while government pleader Bharti Dangre represented the state.
 
 The petitioners said VIDC invited tenders for project on May 28, 2009, and published it in newspapers and its website.The accused firms entered into joint collaboration to complete the project. An NGO, Jan Manch, then filed PIL while making a slew of allegations of corruption against various contractors entrusted with projects without naming them.
 
 The government then constituted a three-member committee to inquire into the allegations and concluded that no case was made out against the applicants. It later came to light that the state had not acquired any land for the project, nor any work was executed by the joint venture. The applicants communicated the same to executive engineer at Ambhora Lift Irrigation in Bhiwapur division. The petitioners informed the authorities that the terms of the contract were breached and they don't want to continue the work.
 
 However, the ACB issued notices to the joint venture under Section 166 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Subsequently , an FIR was lodged under the Prevention of Corruption Act in accordance with IPC sections 420, 468, 471, 109 and 120B at Sadar Police Station. They stressed on that there was no need to conduct an enquiry by either ACB or CBI. The petitioners said action taken against them is result of PIL. They requested the court to include them as respondents and grant them interim relief, but they were told they were not necessary party as the government will hold open house enquiry.
 
 (Inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
 
