MANGALURU: Jawaharlal Nehru University   claimed that feudalism was coming back in  , riding on kambala. "That land reforms were the last nail in the coffin of feudalism was wrong. Though land reforms stymied it to some extent, it is now returning, piggy-backing on kambala and Hindutva,'' said Prof Bilimale, expressing concern. 

 Bilimale explained: "In a majority of cases, kambala is organized on lands owned by earlier feudal landlords. They get indirect sanction of their feudalism of yesteryear through this tradition. On this day, kambala organizers emerge as modern day kings, pumping in money."
 
 During the agitation to bring an ordinance to revive kambala, award-winning novelist and intellectual Devanur Mahadeva made a statement regarding kambala's exploitative nature. To substantiate, Mahadeva referred to the book 'Karavali Janapada' written by scholar Purushothama Bilimale in 1990, about kambala. In the book, Bilimale refers to the practice of 'pani kulluni' (sitting in the dew) on the eve of kambala, guarding the fields and running in the (kambala) field early morning like buffaloes to test the field for imperfections, so that the buffaloes wouldn't get injured.
 
 Bilimale says: "I have documented proof of these practices and also sexual acts performed by Koragas during the 'pani kulluni' practice. It is akin to the fertility cult ritual of Africa done in the open, and has a symbiotic relation to tilling the land. That they are made to guard the fields at night and run on the field like buffaloes to test it, and also rid it of evil spirits, was inhuman. Why were only Koragas made to run or play musical instruments? Why couldn't the organizers or feudal landlords do it?"
 
 Bilimale said he had made his opposition known even then. "In the name of folklore, one cannot romanticize casteism and feudalism. If it is allowed, one day in the name of tradition, the carrying of night soil can also be romanticized,'' he said, hoping that what he had witnessed decades ago was not in vogue now.
 
 After the book was published, Bilimale was dragged to court, but was absolved after he produced relevant proof of what he had documented in his book. "I didn't publish the documented proof as it was a private affair and also it would hurt the Koragas. I may be a writer, but I too have social responsibility," he said.
 
  Will Bilimale support kambala as a sport without these imperfections? "Though a feudal art, now it has transformed into an entertainment form. If you take Koragas out of kambala, I will be very happy to support it. In the name of entertainment, running of buffaloes is fine. I have seen three famous kambalas - Vandare Arasa, Kadri Devara Kambala and   -- and at all three places, Koragas were involved. Playing musical instruments by Koragas is not a problem it could be taken as preserving art. But why should only they do it is the question," Bilimale said. 
 
