Arjun Bhardwaj, a Bengaluru lad who committed suicide at a posh hotel in Mumbai on Monday after chillingly reciting the steps on Facebook Live, was a big fan of standup comedy circuit. Not only did he regularly attend comedy shows, had many comics on his friends list and shared their videos, he had also tried his hand at doing comedy. Some city comics told us more about the “cheerful” guy. Comedian   stays in the same apartment complex in   as Arjun’s family, and has seen the boy growing up. “He was a big fan of comedy. A couple of years back, when he was in Bengaluru for vacations, he came home to talk to me as he wanted to try his luck at pursuing standup comedy,” he says. 
“So I gave him some books and he did try it a couple of times, but it didn’t go well. Then whenever I would go to Mumbai, his mom will give me stuff to give to him there, and he would also send stuff back for his younger brother. Once there he would meet up and come to my shows. He seemed like quite a cheerful person. His mother was also very close to him and would often tell my wife how she missed him. I last met him in November,” says Praveen, adding, “After the incident, my wife went to meet his mom, and she had no clue why he could have taken such a step. Nobody had a clue. The worst part is that his younger brother’s Class X exams are on at present. Imagine what he must be going through.”
  also recalls the guy as a regular engineering student. “He had come for 2-3 shows of mine, both in Bengaluru and Mumbai. But after every video of mine would release, he would personally message me. A lot of people in the comedy circuit — both the comics (example  ) and the audience — are not happy from inside and hence, seek it in comedy. Maybe he was doing the same,” he says.
 
 
 
 Some 3-4 years back, I was severely depressed and even attempted suicide once. All I would do during that phase was sleep. I would sleep for 18-19 hours, and confine myself in a dark room for the other hours. Everything seemed to be falling apart and I saw no point in living. I was losing hope and interest in doing anything. Also, I didn’t want any help. I just wanted to be by myself. Only comedy helped me come out of that phase. So I do not understand people who are posting screenshots on their timelines showing how they helped someone in depression. If someone had used my mental health just for a few likes, I would be more depressed. So do not try to be a hero playing on someone else’s sadness. Also, these status messages saying that if you are depressed, talk to me or meet for a chai, are not helpful because depression isn’t going to go in one call. Also putting up with people who aren’t depressed isn’t easy because they come across as arrogant.
 
 
