PATNA: Brides rocking at their   are commonplace in metros. So they are in Patna -- at least some of them.

  admit an increase in demand for choreographers to teach dance steps to brides, grooms and their families and friends. “Sangeet ceremony, otherwise a feature of Punjabi weddings, is fast catching the fancy of others in Bihar,” said Priya Kanchan, a city-based event planner.
 
 Priya hands a bill of Rs 75,000 for organising such a ceremony. “But that’s only with the basics. There’s no upper limit... A decent   ceremony can be organised by spending around Rs 2.5 lakh,” she said and added brides and grooms practise for at least 15 to 30 days under the guidance of a professional choreographer before the D-day.
 
 The more well-off among such families in Patna get choreographers hired from Kolkata for the purpose. “Good choreographers are available in Patna, but we hire more professional ones from Kolkata on demand from our patrons,” said Harsh Modi, another Patna-based wedding planner.
 
 Patna-based or Kolkata-based, a choreographer is paid Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per day for teaching dance steps for at least seven hours every day. Of course, one has to pay additionally for the travel and stay of the choreographers hired from Kolkata.
 
 Harsh is also getting hitched to Begusarai’s Puja on June 2. “I have hired a choreographer who is currently teaching dance steps to my family,” he said and added the same choreographer would later be sent to the bride’s home. 
 
 Harsh’s cousin   plans to perform on Punjabi numbers. “The choreographer has given different songs to people of different age groups. All the Harsh’s ‘bhabhis’ (wives of elder brothers and cousin brothers), for instance, will dance together while aunts will have a seperate group. Even the children will be performing,” she said while practising dance steps at her aunt’s place on Wednesday.
 
 Neetu Birla of Kolkata, who tied the knot with businesman Rohit Birla of Patna 16 years back, recalled performing with her would-be husband at the end of their sangeet ceremony for a few minutes. Those days, she said, only womenfolk of the families participated in the dance, and they excluded the eldely among them.
 
 “But times have changed,” Neetu said as she recalled how both the men and women of the families of bride and groom danced at her nephew Raj Kumar Birla’s sangeet two years back. 
 
 “It was like a movie... We depicted the entire ‘wedding journey’ of Raj and Sneha -- from the day of their engagement to the mehndi -- at a  . We had even printed tickets for the guests to show at the entry gate of the venue though the tickets were not priced,” said Neetu.
 
 There are also families which manage without any choreographer. “Day before my sister’s marriage on June 7, we will have a sangeet ceremony. We have decided the dress code and we will start practising once I reach Patna,” said Sandhya Prasad, a Patna woman who works with a private firm in Haldwani.
 
