NEW DELHI: Terrorist violence and ceasefire violations in J&K have come down after the surgical strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, the government told Parliament on Wednesday. It also said that Pakistan would have to commit to halting state-sponsored terrorism if it wanted to resume dialogue with India.

 According to data furnished by the government in the Rajya Sabha, terrorist incidents fell to 87 between October 1 and December 31, 2016, from 110 between July 1 and September 30 that year.
 
 Union minister of state for home Hansraj Gangaram Ahir told the House that 34 security personnel were killed three months prior to the surgical strikes carried out in September post the terror attack on an Army camp in Uri, while only 19 died in the subsequent quarter. Civilian killings, too, fell from 7 to 6 in the corresponding period.
 
 The fall in the number of terrorist incidents is also attributed to weakening of violent protests that broke out af ter Hizbul commander Burhan Wani was killed in an encounter in July , sources said.
 
 Holding that ceasefire violations by Pakistan had also come down post the surgical strikes, home minister   said the onus is on   to give a commitment on stopping state-sponsored terrorism if it wanted resumption of bilateral dialogue.
 
 “Pakistan should at least make a beginning, say it is willing to talk, willing to fully end terrorist activities, and is ready to seek support of any country in the world (to end terrorism) if required. Pakistan should itself take the initiative,“ Singh told the RS, responding to questions on why talks were not being held with Islamabad.The minister said the previous UPA government had also placed a similar condition on Islamabad.
 
 Singh also stressed that the Centre was ready to talk with all stakeholders in J&K. He said this in reply to MPs like Sitaram Yechury (CPM) and Sharad Yadav (JD-U) who asked why the government had not taken forward its own commitment for a political dialogue in the strife-torn state.
 
 Singh said the government had taken several initiatives since it wanted the situation to improve in the state. “J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti had even written a letter inviting all such (separatist) forces to talk to the visiting (all-party) delegation. But they still did not turn up,“ said Singh. Taking a swipe at Yechury and Yadav, who had independently gone to meet the Hurriyat leadership, the minister said they were “forced to beat a hasty retreat“.
 
 Hitting out at the Centre, leader of opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the manner in which the government was replying to such an important matter, the issue was being “killed“ and “butchered“ as never seen before in Parliament.
 
 'PM never named ISI in Kanpur train case'
 
 Union home minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday that PM   had not directly blamed Pakistan or ISI for the conspiracy to derail the   near Kanpur last November, in which over 140 passengers were killed, while holding that the NIA probe into the case was still under way.
 
 This came after the opposition cornered the government in the Rajya Sabha for making contradictory statements about the train accident. Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said the PM, during an election rally at Gonda (UP) on February 23, had proclaimed that “police had found a huge conspiracy hatched by people sitting across the border“ but the home ministry had submitted that the investigation was still in progress.
 
