CHENNAI: Land   officials cannot simply refuse to register or pass one line orders or refuse to return registered sale deeds merely because a religious institution or a local body raises objection saying the   belongs to it,   has said.

 Such objections, if raised under Section 22-A of Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2008, the registering authority shall issue notice to parties concerned. He should apply his mind and if there are enough materials to show that the land belongs to the religious institution, he shall refuse to register such deed, said a division bench of Justice S   and Justice Anita Sumanth.
 
 From now on, registering authority must issue notices to parties including the objector, hold summary inquiry, hear parties and then either register or refuse to register such deeds. If objections are rejected and deeds registered, remedy for the religious institution is to approach either a civil court or high court for declaration of title.
 
 The bench was passing orders on a large number of writ petitions filed by land buyers after their sale or mortgage deeds were rejected by respective sub-registrars citing Section 22-A. In some cases, registered sale deeds were not returned. In all cases, sub-registrars had passed one-line orders of rejection. 
 Section 22-A was inserted by Tamil Nadu government empowering registrars to refuse to register sale, mortgage, exchange or lease of lands, if they belonged to local authorities, religious institutions such as temples and Wakf or donated under 'bhoodan yagna'.
 
 Following the amendment, they created register of lands and intimated the jurisdictional registrars not to register sale or gift or mortgage or lease deeds. 
 While the aggrieved petitioners said their deeds were rejected without them being afforded an opportunity of hearing, government said registrars could not undertake roving inquiry and that the only remedy for land owners was to civil courts.
  
 The bench, however, said summary rejection of documents was not valid since refusal to register documents would result in civil consequences.
  
 "We are conscious of the fact that there is no explicit provision in the Act for issuing such notice to the parties by the registering authority and to hold summary inquiry. But that would not deprive the parties concerned to have sufficient opportunity in principles of natural justice which is mandatory, as refusing to register a document results in civil consequences," said the judges.
 
 They said rejection orders had been passed in mechanical fashion without affording any opportunity whatsoever and finally without even verifying whether the objections raised by the religious bodied are genuine or not.
  
 "Thus, there is gross violation of the principles of natural justice. The orders are one-liners which do not even contain the reasons to refuse," the bench said.
 
 "These are all non-speaking orders which can be classified as arbitrary orders. Arbitrariness is opposed to rule of law," they said.
 
 Refusing to return already registered deeds are all arbitrary since the Act doesn't contain any provision for it, they said. The court then directed authorities to return the registered documents to applicants. 
 
