HYDERABAD: Scores of citizens converged at the   on Thursday evening to participate in a   to  . Telangana lost two of its sons,   and Vamsi Reddy Mamidala, in   recently .

 Thursday's vigil, organised by the Telangana chapter of the All India Peace and Solidarity Organisation (AIPSO) and the Telangana NRI Parents' Association, was peppered with cries of `Johar Kuchibhotla Srinivas and Vamsi Reddy' and `Down with hate crimes' even as some people raised slogans against US president Donald Trump's administration.
 
 Seen among the crowd was Venu Madhav , Srinivas' cobrother. He said: “The family observed Srinivas' birthday by celebrating his memory . While the government helped us in recovering Kuchibhotla's body very quickly , further interven tion in this matter will make the lives of Indians still living in the US safer. Sunayana (Srinivas' wife), who is still recovering from the shock will soon make a decision on whether she will live in the US or in Hyderabad.We will support her irrespective of what she decides to do.“
 
 Demanding the Centre and state take steps to safeguard the interests of Indians in the US, dozens of concerned NRI parents gathered at the venue.
 
 “Kuchibhotla's and Vamsi Reddy's deaths must be strongly condemned by the Indian government. If the government does not intervene, the climate of fear among NRI parents and thousands of Indians abroad will only become more intense,“ said Seetha, a parent who has two kids studying in Virginia. Representatives of the state NRI Parents' Association, pointed out that the reduction in the Optional Practical Training period, was also a cause for concern. OPT period that has been cut to one year from three could force 12,000 students to return.
 
 
 
 Lok Sabha member from Telangana, AP Jithender Reddy, joined forces with Congress in the House on Wednesday and demanded a statement from the central government on the issue of the killing of Srinivas Kuchibhotla in a racially-motivated attack in Kansas. Reddy wanted to know why PM Narendra Modi, who tweets on all kinds of issues, has remained silent on the matter of an Indian being killed in the US. “Why is the Prime Minster silent?“ he asked.
 
