

 THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala has lost one glorious year under the   rule led by  . There is no other government in the history of the state which has been hated so much by the people.
 
 Usually the people's sentiments against a gover nment mounts during the tail-end of their rule. But, here the LDF government started receiving brickbats from various quarters right from day one.
 
 The government cannot claim even a single achievement in the first year of their rule. No projects were launched during this period and not even a single investment was brought into the state. The government has been distanced from the people due to the arrogant attitude of the leaders and ministers of the ruling party.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is claiming that his government could bring down corruption and scandals but he will have to explain why E P Jayarajan and A K Saseendran had to quit the cabinet. Jayarajan had to quit the cabinet when he tried to award plum posts for his family members in public sector undertakings.
 
 A K Saseendran had to move out for his sleaze talk with a channel reporter over the phone. How can Pinarayi Vijayan justify such acts of his cabinet colleagues and claim that his government is fighting corruption and is devoid of scandals?
 
 The CPM, which once termed R   and   as corrupt leaders now consider them as allies. 
 
 R Balakrishna Pillai who was imprisoned after fighting a losing battle in Edamalayar case has been given a cabinet rank. It is interesting to note that the plaintiff and the accused in the Edamalayar case are now enjoying the cabinet rank under the CPM government.
 
 In cases related to atrocities on women, the police were seen supporting the accused. Women who faced atrocities failed to receive justice. There has been a steady increase in the number of crimes against women during the one year rule of the CPM and the government could do nothing to curb this menace.
 
 It is very difficult to list out the failures of this government in few paragraphs. One would need to write an essay for that. I had listed out 65 major failures of the government recently.
 
 A government which cannot deliver and do justice to the common man this is what the state witnessed in the last one year. Even though the people had high expectations when Pinarayi Vijayan became the chief minister, he has proved to be a failure in all fronts.
 
 
 
 
