New Delhi: After Delhi government asked   to put on hold the implementation of a fare hike from October 10,   Arvind Kerjiwal has written a letter to Union urban development minister Hardeep Singh Puri, asking him to step in as an equal stakeholder in Delhi Metro and invoke provisions of the DMRC Act to “stay the hike” for now. The CM has in his letter, written on Saturday, alleged that DMRC has violated recommendations of the fare fixation committee. Representatives of both the Delhi government and central government are part of this committee which decided on the hike last October.

 In order to mount more pressure,   has threatened to launch protests against the proposed hike. A delegation of AAP MLAs is scheduled to meet DMRC chief Mangu Singh on Monday on this issue.
 
 Kejriwal had on September 28 taken to twitter to describe the fare hike decision as “anti-people”. It was followed by an urgent meeting called by transport minister Kailash   to discuss the issue with Mangu Singh. Gahlot later issued an order directing DMRC to put the hike on hold till the Delhi government looked into how the decision was arrived at. 
 
 Calling the hike as “unjustified”, the Delhi CM has now asked the UD minister, in the letter, to ask DMRC for putting the hike on hold till the decision is jointly reviewed by both governments. Pointing out that both had equal stakes, Kejriwal has sought a board meeting.
 
 A statement issued by the Delhi government said Kejriwal has pointed out that residents of Delhi are still reeling under the impact of the steep fare hike in May and a second one “will be simply unacceptable” in this time of economic distress. “The fare fixation committee had recommended a gap of one year between two fare hikes. This recommendation is being completely violated because the proposed second hike in October 2017 will take place before even the completion of six months of the previous fare hike,” he has argued in his letter.
 
 The letter also points out that the “committee has recommended that from 2019 onwards, the annual fare hike should take care of inflation etc. but should not exceed 7% per annum. This principle is being completely overlooked in the fare hikes being planned for 2017, which put together will exceed 80% in one year alone.” It has been pointed that “in several slabs, the increase will be 100%, which is quite appalling. There is no reason why the principles to be followed from 2019 onwards should be completely violated in 2017.”
 
 The CM has said that the “fare fixation committee has advised DMRC to improve productivity on the lines of Hong Kong Metro. This would significantly improve the finances of DMRC and lead to a much lower increase in fares”. The committee had also asked DMRC to raise funds through real estate development from the large number of properties allotted to it. 
 
 “It is a well-accepted principle that organisations must continuously improve their efficiency in order to reduce costs. No such initiatives are noticeable in the case of DMRC and their effort is to pass on all costs and inefficiencies in the form of a higher fare to...the ordinary commuter,” it is stated.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Saturday, Gahlot reiterated his claim that in the meeting of the board of directors of Metro in May, where the fare hike decision was adopted, the chief secretary and transport commissioner were not present. As far as the fact that the chief secretary had endorsed the move to hike the fares at the committee’s meeting in October last year is concerned, Gahlot said: “We had conveyed our stand as a government on fare hike to DMRC in June 2016, opposing any hike. The minister in-charge and CM were not informed if the CS endorsed the decision to hike the fares in the fare fixation committee.”
 
