MUMBAI: President Ramnath Kovind on his maiden visit to Maharashtra declared the urban areas of the state as Open Defecation Free (ODF). It was also the President’s birthday on Sunday.

 Two years ago, chief minister   had announced the   abhiyan in line with the Swachcha Bharat abhiyan. The government urban development department then took up the task of ensuring toilets to all in the 384 urban areas in the state.
 
 Fadanvis while declaring that urban Maharashtra was ODF said it was now necessary to ensure it remains sustainable. “The ODF mission will not be sustainable till people change their habits. For this we have set up the ODF watch scheme whereby people will be persuaded to use toilets. Sometime we may even need to shame people to stop defecating in the open. Through the next six months we will persuade and encourage people to use toilets,” he said.
 
 The function was held at the National   Club of India, Worli. Kovind who was accompanied by his wife had earlier inaugurated the Shirdi international airport and the year-long centenary celebrations of  . While praising the government’s efforts Kovind said, “It is the beginning of a journey. It is good that sustainability of the ODF mission is being focused upon. The New India-2022 that Modiji is talking of, ODF is a giant step in that direction,” he said.
 
 Commending actor   for promoting toilets, he said the veteran Bollywood superstar is inspiring people across the country with his “Darwaza Bandh, Bimari Bandh” promo.   are taking the lead in demanding toilets. “Our daughters are now asking if the household that she will be wed into has a toilet,” he said.
 
 One of the key elements that would ensure that people use a public toilet is that the user cleans it after use. “People shun public toilets because they are in a terrible state. Those using it must ensure that it is clean after use,” he said.
 
 Pankaja Munde, minister for rural development said the percentage of toilets in rural areas had gone up from 44% to 88%. By October next year all of rural Maharashtra will be ODF, she said.
 
 Fadanvis said the entire state will be ODF by 2019.
 
