New Delhi: The cabinet on Thursday approved phasing out of the Foreign   Promotion Board ( ) - the agency set up at the time of economic liberalisation nearly 26 years ago - taking another step towards improving the ease-of-doing business in the country and pushing ahead with economic reforms. 

 Now, administrative ministries and departments will process applications for FDI proposals, which require government approval. The Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), commerce ministry will issue the standard operating procedure (SOP) for processing applications.
 
 "....foreign Investors will find India as more attractive destination and this will result in more inflow of FDI. The move will provide ease-of-doing business and will help in promoting the principle of maximum governance and minimum government," a statement said.
 
 On May 16, TOI was the first to report on the move to phase out FIPB.
 
 FIPB was set up in 1991 along with industrial de-licensing. At that time, FDI in most sectors required government approval with the Prime Minister's Office directly overseeing the process. Over the years, most sectors have been opened up and need for FIPB nod has been dispensed with, reducing requirement for investors to come to the government.
 
 At present, applications are considered by FIPB, which is under the department of economic affairs in the   ministry, comprising various secretaries in the government for making recommendations on FDI applications. After the cabinet decision, it would be handled independently by the administrative ministries handling particular sector for which foreign investment proposals are made.
 
 "The idea is to move towards more opening up and to have more and more process-driven activities and methods. In fact, today nobody visits North Block for FIPB clearance because everything is online. The application is online, the clarifications, if any, are online, consultations with ministries are also done online," economic affairs secretary Shaktikanta Das had told TOI in an interview last year. 
 
 India Inc cheered the move. "The bold step of dismantling of FIPB with only 11 sectors now needing approvals, along with decisions such as a single window to clear FDI proposals, reflect the government's commitment to reforms and reassure investors that ease-of-doing business remains a high priority," Chandrajit Banerjee,   director-general said.
 
 "The momentous initiative, which is a follow-up of the measure announced in the  , would streamline the process of FDI approvals and thereby boost FDI flows into the country, adding to growth and employment," he said.
 
 
