INDORE: Police booked a city-based gynecologist under   after her patient had died during cesarean operation following blood loss in 2014. Malharganj police registered a case in the matter late on Monday. 

 Police had received a report from the family members of the deceased patient on October 12, 2014. In the report, they had mentioned that they took their 23-year-old daughter Rani Verma to   in   area on October 11, 2014 for a checkup where the doctor asked them to admit her.
 
 “The doctor told us that she would assist in the delivery on the same day and so she admitted Rani at the hospital,” Shyam Verma, Rani’s uncle told TOI.
 
 After the delivery, doctors told Rani’s family that she had died due to some complications. Shocked by the news, Rani’s father Hukumchand Verma, mother Babita Verma and husband Ravi Verma started interrogating the hospital staff. When they did not divulge any information about what had exactly happened to Rani, the family members staged a protest at the hospital.
 
 The matter reached police station and the body was sent for postmortem examination.
 
 The autopsy report said that the death was due to shock hemorrhage and that the evidence of cesarean section surgery was present. The viscera and tissues of the deceased were taken for examination. All the reports were seized by the medical board for further probe into the matter.
 
 The committee submitted a report in which they claimed that the woman had died due to placenta praevia - an obstetric complication in which the placenta is inserted partially or wholly in the lower uterine segmen, causing vaginal bleeding.
 
 The committee also claimed that the hospital was not fully equipped with the necessary requirements to deal with the complications which arose during the operation.
 
 On Tuesday, a case was registered against Dr   under culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The investigating officer said that the hospital did not have the necessary arrangements and the incident took place due to negligence and carelessness on the part of the doctor.
 
 “Further investigations are on in the case and she will be arrested at the earliest,” said DS Yevale, Malharganj police station in-charge.
 
 Dr Pancholi did not respond to queries on the case. 
 
