VISAKHAPATNAM: A study taken up by Andhra University researchers in the campus and outside has identified a number of alien, invasive   which pose a threat to the   In the campus alone, the study identified 21 such species, while in the city the experts claim that such species could be anywhere between 20 and 40.

 Most of these invasive species, according to Prof AJ Solomon of the department of environmental studies, are introduced with intent. He noted, “Invasive species are seldom introduced in ignorance or by accident. There are a few such cases but by and large they are willingly introduced.”
 
 Elaborating on the reasons for introducing such  , coastal environment expert,   said, “Usually in the case of plant species it is for land reclamation to prevent desertification in urban areas. The best example is eucalyptus. It has been introduced in Vizag chiefly for the purpose of reforestation, however, it does not allow other species to thrive mainly because noxious gases it releases and also plays a major role in depleting water tables as it is a guzzler.”
 
 PBN Murthy, former scientist with SCI, noted that invasive species are a bane in most coastal regions. Speaking on the invasive species in reference to AU campus alone, he said, “Out of the 21 shrub, creeper invasive species found in AU, 16 were introduced over a period of 40 to 50 years by residents and gardeners.” The soil conservationist also added that the impact of such species is yet to be properly studied as people are more keen on their short term benefits.
 
 Murthy noted that acacia was another such tree species which caused huge losses to cattle farmers as it encourages the growth of a shrub, that has a poisoning effect on bovines. More importantly, both eucalyptus and acacia, consume a lot more oxygen and water, adversely affecting the environment. He noted that these two species were introduced throughout north coastal AP and Odisha during the soil conservation drive conducted in the 1960s and 1970s.
 
 Murthy noted that a detailed survey of area and extent of acaia and Eucalyptus must be conducted beginning with Visakhapatnam city. He added that the depletion in water tables in these areas along with loss of native species must also be recorded.
 
