Sahitya Akademi Award winner S Venkatesan, who has been following the Keezhadi excavation from the beginning tells Padmini Sivarajah in an exclusive interview that the third phase of the excavation carried out this year was a mere eyewash and it was done as per the directions of the central government with the sole objective of concealing facts

 What makes you think that the third excavation was done with the only motive being to conceal facts?
 
 All of us who have been following the Keezhadi excavation closely know that the contour map of the area shows a habitation which was spread over an area of 110 acres, but the present superintending archaeologist P S Sriraman has claimed that it is spread over only 50 or 60 acres, which is the first effort to conceal the truth.
 
 Can you detail how this excavation can be considered an eyewash, compared with the earlier two excavations?
 
 A total of 102 trenches were dug in the first two excavations, 43 in the first year and 59 in the second, but this year only eight have been dug and none of the trenches have reached the virgin soil. But, while the first two excavations yielded 5,800 artefacts, he has been able to bring out 1,600 just from the top soil, so if he had gone below many more things would have come up.
 
 You have visited the site regularly, what is your first impression of the first two and the current excavation?
 
 The first thing that strikes you is the number of labourers. When archaeologist Amarnath Ramakrishna was excavating there were not less than 80 workers at the site, but now there are just 10 or 15 and my interactions with them showed that they were changed regularly, which is a clear indication that this was to prevent them from revealing anything of the excavation to the outside world.
 
 What makes Keezhadi special?
 
 The speciality of Keezhadi is the fact that it revealed that man lived in a huge community, in well-built houses, made of bricks and that they were a very civilised society. But in a recent interview of Sriraman I heard him say that it could not be confirmed as no proper structure was found in the third excavation. He himself has found a group of wells hardly five metres apart, which shows that people bathed in their homes in spite of the river being nearby — another proof of a civilised society.
 
 He may have been right, after all he was the person who carried out the excavation.
 
 That’s right he is the person who carried out the third phase of the excavation. While the earlier two excavations showed that the buildings sloped towards the south before being buried under the sand, Sriraman carried out his excavation in the northern direction. How will a habitation extending towards the south have continuations in the north? If a real continuation of the two earlier ones had to be found it should have been done southwards, or at least on the west or east, not on the opposite direction, where finding continuations was not a possibility.
 
 What is your conclusion of this third phase of excavation?
 
 Even when Amarnath Ramakrishna was transferred, we hoped his successor would be able to do a good job, but now we know that he was sent to just execute an excavation with a pre-planned result.
 
 Sriraman had said that his findings will be sent for carbon dating?
 
 This is something that should not be allowed as what he has excavated is from the top soil, the carbon dating of which will be done much later, when compared to the age of the artefacts excavated from the very bottom. Hence, if at all carbon dating is done, it should be done for the 18 more artefacts excavated in the earlier excavations, as Sriraman’s findings would just conclude the entire story by saying Keezhadi is just a few hundred years old and altogether destroy the evidence of one of the richest civilisations that flourished in Tamil Nadu over 2,500 years ago.
 
 
