At first glance, Alex Seton’s work Refuge would appear like a hunched figure sitting with a plastic sheet wrapped around them, probably made of plastic itself, you would imagine. 

 Well, the work is carved entirely in marble, something difficult to decipher even at close quarter. The artist encourages you to touch and feel the work and ask as many questions as you want about it. Simply put, he says, Refuge symbolises the refugee crisis and depicts a refugee, sitting alone and scared, with just a plastic sheet as shelter. There is no face inside the sheet, and Seton wants you to “imagine yourself inside it.” “Put yourself in the position of the refugee, introverted, hiding from everything.”
 
 The work, which took him two months to complete, is made of traditional white marble, usually used for making memorial stones. “I wanted to make memorials to the ongoing tragedy involving millions of displaced people, instead of kings and queens,” he says. It took Seton just two months to create Refuge, which was first exhibited in Paris in 2015.
 And why a traditional form like sculpture to convey his ideas? “I wanted a form which is familiar to all, and my work to be very clear in meaning and basic rather than abstract. I wanted it to be physically recognisable to everyone, to tell everyone that this could be you or I.”
 For the past five years, the Sydney based artist’s work has been focusing on the notions of the outsider, about “who we choose to keep on the outskirts of our community and why we make those choices’’. The turning point was when he read a piece of news in May 2013 about 28 life jackets washing up at the Cocos Islands on the Western Coast of Australia, known for smuggling refugees in. “Lifeguards never found the boat, presumed sunk, nor the refugees who might have tried to save themselves with the life jackets. “They were thought to be Iranians, presumed from the Iranian currency found in the pockets. Human lives were at stake here, and I felt it was an issue worth talking about. The idea of making 28 life jackets in marble took seed, and in an year’s time, I exhibited the work at the Adelaide  , in 2014. Many more life jackets washed up later on, and I realised the tragedy is much more grave then I imagined.”
 
 Growing up in Australia had a definite part in moulding Seton’s political views, especially his Egyptian lineage. “My mother is from Cairo and her family fled Egypt during the 60s to escape the regime of Abdul Nasser. Her brothers, computer engineers, were asked to design war equipment and fled to different parts of the world. I grew up listening to stories of displacement, and about how grateful they are for the peace of mind they enjoy in Australia.”
 However, the policies of the Australian government have been far from humanitarian when it comes to the refugees, he feels. “Australians themselves came by boat, originally. But in the past 20 years, the Govt. has been demonising those who choose to come by boat. Instead of seeing migration as an act of desperation by people seeking asylum, they have made it an illegal, criminal act, which is fundamentally not right.”
 By issuing a ban on boats, the Australian government is saving lives but families are getting separated, he says. “They are tearing lives apart, destroying the dreams of people’s desperate to be reunited.”
 
 Meanwhile, Seton finds the art crowd in Kochi ‘’lovely’’. “The crowd back there is a bit cynical and jaded, while people here are more willing to engage with the art works and discuss them,” he signs off. 
 
