ALIBAUG/MUMBAI: In a freak incident,   Chief Minister   found himself running away from a helicopter that he was to fly in, after the aircraft, with only its two pilots aboard, started moving forward seconds before the passengers could open its door to enter. The incident which took place in   on Friday had the quick-thinking chief minister get himself out of harm's way as he rushed off the helipad only to see the helicopter lift off and rotate before the pilots could bring it back to the ground safely. 

 An internal inquiry will be carried out by the state government into the matter. This is the second instance of helicopter trouble for the CM as just over a month ago he was on board a state-owned helicopter that crash landed soon after it took off from a temporary helipad in Latur. 
 
 The latest incident occurred when the CM had gone to Alibaug to attend a private function. Around 1.45 pm, the CM’s convoy had reached the JSW steel plant helipad and was about to board the Bell 230 helicopter when the incident occured. "The helicopter started flying before CM could board it. The helicopter flew four to five feet above the ground and tilted. However, the CM narrowly escaped. The security staff escorted him about hundred meters away from the flying machine,’’ said a Raigad police personnel, a witness.
 
  Later on, the helicopter took off with the CM onboard around 2pm. Capt Sanjay Karve, director, Maharashtra civil aviation said that the helicopter landed back safely around 2.30 pm in Juhu. "There was nothing unusual to report,’’ he added. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Later in the evening, the Chief Minister held a briefing to inform key officials about the incident. According to a source who was present at the briefing, the CM said that when he reached the helipad, the pilot started the aircraft engine. The winds were strong. The helipad happens to be located within 500 metres from the sea. "He was about to open the door, when he saw the helicopter moving forward. He immediately moved away from the helicopter to the left and rushed diagonally off the helipad. The occupants who were to enter the helicopter from the other side did the same,’’ the source said.
 
 After he was well away from the helipad, he saw the helicopter lift off and rotate at an angle of 30-45 degree before it was stabilized and brought back to the ground. "The CM said that at no point of time did he come anywhere near the tail wing of the aircraft as was being reported in some sections of the media. He was off the helipad at a safe distance away from the helicopter when it lifted off,’’ the source added. "It’s likely that the helicopter moved because of the strong winds,’’ the official added. 
 
 The Raigad collector PD Malikner said: "The pilot might have had a misunderstanding and he flew around two feet above the ground before he returned and landed.’’ He added that other the two pilots, the passengers who had to board included a company person, the CM, minister Vinod Tawde and two officers on special duty. 
 
  official at Delhi, Manish Kumar, said: "Keeping in mind the last incident, the pilot may be checking power assurance for the helicopter. This may have led to the incident. Nothing concrete has been reported to us yet."
 
 The Bell 230 helicopter was over 20 years old, said a source. Nisha Sharma, general manager, Aloft Aviation, the company that had provided the helicopter said that it had a valid certificate of airworthiness. "It’ wasn’t even an incident. The helicopter moved because of strong winds’’, she said. In aviation terminology, an incident is an occurrence, which affects or could affect the safety of flight operation. Said an aviation source: "Had the chief minister not reacted quickly and stayed frozen at the spot, it could have turned disastrous.’’ Said a govenrment official: "The CM has flown for about 600 odd hours on state-government owned helicotpers. Other than that he has flown private helicotpers during campaigning. If anything, he knows a lot about helicopter flying. He is one of the few politicians who always wears a seat belt, even before the pre-flight briefing begins’’.
 
