TRICHY: Venturing into city roads during day time has become a challenging task for motorists, especially those on two-wheelers due to the heavy winds prevailing for the past few days.

 In many parts of the city, the dust and silt accumulated on the roadsides get suspended in the air due to the heavy winds, causing irritation in the eyes of commuters. 
 
 Continuous movement of   accumulation of silt on the roadsides. Trichy roads are more prone to such accumulation as the Cauvery riverbed flows through the the middle of the city. The dry sand blown away by the wind get deposited on roads even in the interior parts of the city. Besides, emission from vehicles also form a major part of the silt. Mostly found deposited on sides of roads, fine sand particles get suspended in the air due to wind and movement of vehicles.
 
 “It has become really difficult to ride on the city roads in the past two weeks due to dust. Maintaining balance itself is difficult due to the heavy wind, the dust and silt are making it further challenging,” said S Rajesh, of  , who works at a courier office.
 
 Though silt is being removed manually by the conservancy work, it is a time consuming affair. The civic body had planned to procure a total four machines each for a zone to clean the silt formed on the city roadsides at an estimated cost of Rs 77 lakh.
 
 A senior official from the city corporation said that workers were engaged in cleaning the silt deposited on the road sides and along the central median. However, work had to be slowed down as workers were moved for dengue awareness and eradication drive in the recent time.
 
 Detailing the plans for mechanized cleaning of roadside silt, the official said that the identification of the right machine has been taking some time since many of the models developed snag very early. 
 
 “We have sought opinion on   Once the task is over, we would procure it at the earliest,” said the official.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Crime and Traffic)   said commuters can protect themselves from the dust by wearing helmets. “While there should not be any compromise in wearing helmet, commuters must ensure that they are not over speeding on roads so that they can save not only their lives but also of others on the road,” he said. 
 
