NEW DELHI: With polls in   and   just about two weeks away, Aam Aadmi Party wants to leave nothing to chance. Party convenor and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is campaigning in Goa at present, has asked all   MLAs to make their way to Punjab.

 With health minister Satyendar Jain and transport minister Gopal Rai in Goa along with the CM and deputy CM Manish Sisodia and tourism minister Kapil Mishra in Punjab, only environment minister Imran Hussain was left in the city.
 
 Kejriwal, as the party’s star campaigner in both Goa and Punjab, is unlikely to be seen in Delhi for more than a couple of days till February 4, the day of the election.
 
  
  
 “Work is not suffering in any way. The cabinet went out over the weekend and will be returning on Monday,” said party sources.
 
 With corporation   likely to be in April, one would have expected   to start campaigning across wards but over the next few days, MLAs, accompanied by volunteers, would be spending time in Punjab.
 
 “AAP has been working on ground for several months as we were anticipating this situation. We cannot decide on candidates right now till the Election Commission doesn’t declare which seats are reserved,” said a senior party member.
 
 Contrary to suggestions that AAP, caught in a bind over the clashing poll dates in both states, was focusing more on Punjab, senior party member said the decision to send MLAs to Punjab was taken simply because it was logistically easier for them to travel there.
 
 “Goa already has volunteers from neighbouring states. It will be convenient for Delhi volunteers and MLAs to travel to Punjab which is just a few hours away. In any case, if required, then they may also be asked to travel to Goa at a later date. AAP is focusing equally on both states,” said a senior party member.
 
  
  
 
 When poll dates were announced earlier this month, AAP had said that in the coming days, both states would be flooded with volunteers and workers, not only to intensify campaigning but also to increase the party’s visibility on the ground.
 
 
