GURUGRAM: A showdown between four men transporting a cow in a van and a vigilante group of ‘gau rakshaks’ and police triggered a security breach at the   campus in Manesar late on Monday as the alleged cattle smugglers scaled the perimeter wall and took refuge inside the high-security zone.

 The group, according to police, also fired a few shots at guards inside the campus and were instantly met with retaliatory fire. But they were not captured and managed to sneak out by jumping over the perimeter wall.
 
 Police said no one was injured in the firing. Two separate FIRs have been lodged at Kherki Daula and Manesar police stations. “We have got strong leads about the accused and they were from Mewat area. Almost all of them have been identified. Our teams are on the job and they will be arrested soon,” said Sandeep Khirwar, police commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 
  
 Around 8.20pm on Monday, the group of four, who were carrying a cow in a Mahindra pickup van, broke past a police barricade at Tauru when they were signalled to stop for routing checking. They sped away towards Gurgaon and smashed through another police barricade near Bar Gurjar village in Kherki Daula. From this point, the cops started chasing them and were joined by a group of ‘gau rakshaks’.
 
 They managed to corner the pickup van near Naurnagpur village around 9pm. Seeing no chance of escape, the four ‘smugglers’ abandoned the cow and the van on the outskirts of the village and started   on foot.
 
 With the cops and ‘gau rakshaks’ in hot pursuit, the ‘smugglers’ scaled the boundary wall of the nearby NSG camp. But as soon as they jumped in, they came across a team of commandos that was on night patrol. The intruders became nervous and opened fire. They turned back when the patrol team retaliated.
 
 For over two hours, NSG commandos and the police team carried out a combing operation in the village and its nearby forest areas, but could not track the four men down. Police later seized the pick-up van and sent the cow to an animal shelter.
 
 Two FIRs have been filed against the alleged smugglers — one under sections 279 (rash driving) and 336 (endangering the lives of others) of the IPC, and Section 13 of Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gau Samvardhan Act, 2015, at Kherki Daula police station, and the other under sections 307 (murder attempt) of IPC and 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Manesar police station, following a complaint by NSG commando Ajay Kumar.
 
 
