JAIPUR: Not many of us aware of  , famous globally for its grandeur, colour,  , has a deep connection with a dilapidated house in one of the   in overcrowded Maniharo ka Rasta in the city.

 Fragrance of gulal which gives a joyful experience to devotees of lord Krishna also comes from 70-year-old artist  , ninth generation of lac bangle makers in city who is sending gulal ki golis made up of lac and organic gulal. 
 
 “I am unable to recall the exact year my family sending these gulal golis in the temple of Lord Krishna. But since, I have started learning this art in the 50’s. The disciples have been taking gulal golis from us,” said Mohammad, whose three generations working overtime to meet the orders in a three storey building. 
 
 This year, disciples from Rajasthan and Mathura purchased colorful gulal golis worth Rs 50, 000. The gulal is made up of 100% organic multilayered process. The artisan family has refused to disclose the formula but the fragrance and feel in touch gives you an unparalleled expense.
 
 “One Mahant from Braj was so happy with my work that he sent Rs 11,000 award and one silver coin with Lord Krishna inscribed on it. It is a biggest reward for me to receive award from the President of India for excellence in artisan in 2013,” said an elated Mohammad. He gives training to his grandchildren to relive the art. 
 
 Mohammad family has been serving in Jaipur Royal Family since 17th century. They claim to be artisans from Khorsan region who were invited by the Royals for making bangles. The entire family is involved in the process of making a small lac bangles unit for 10 months and lac gulal balls for two months. Before Holi, they prepare different Holi colors with vegetables, herbs and shrubs.
 
 “These balls are made by boiling lac on a controlled temperature followed by a formula invented by my family since the time of   in early 17th century,” said Mohammad. 
 
 He recalled that erstwhile rulers had the tradition of throwing these balls on prajas (people) while sitting on the elephant. These balls are so elegant that they don’t hurt anyone and the colour laced with fragrance fill the air. Family pride has disappeared since the rulers gone. Now they are like any other bangles maker in any part of the city. 
 
