CHENNAI: The   in   has come as blessing in disguise for water managers who, in a special statewide drive, as many as unearthed   and sealed all of them. While most of the illegal connections were found in households drawing water through multiple lines, a few industries were also seen to be resorting to the practice.

 Data sourced from different districts showed that   with 33,165 illegal water connections, followed by   with 10,534 and 9,587 connections.
 
 In the western region, Erode and Krishnagiri districts were found to have nearly 8,900 such connections, while Namakkal had 7,113 illegal connections and was in the sixth position overall. “All these illegal water connections have been disconnected during the special drive conducted between January and April. We are also continuously monitoring the situation to ensure these connections are not restored,“ revenue administration and relief commissioner K Satyagopal told TOI.However, information pertaining to Chennai was not available. “We cannot quantify the volume of water that can be saved through this exercise. But, it is helping in better water management in a drought ye ar,“ he said.
 
 Most of the households where illegal water connections were detected had an approved water connection from the public supply system. The occupants then laid additional connections and began drawing excess water.Had the state been blessed with bountiful rain in 2016, these connections would have gone unnoticed. But, the failure of the southwest and northeast monsoon in a season where there was a huge 62% rainfall deficit created an acute water shortage and called for desperate measures. Officials regulating supply found the illegal connections. Now, official sources said, no new water connections would be allowed till new water resources are created.
 
 Around 64 industries, including in Madurai and Tirunelveli, have been found to be violators. The development comes as water supply for industries has been reduced since the middle of March. This, sources said, was started after prior notice was given to the manufacturing units.
 
 Official sources said water supply in Chennai would be further revised as levels in the four reservoirs had drastically dipped. “It could be reduced to 420 million litres per day (MLD) from May 15. We hope to maintain supply through the summer,“ an official . Presently, Metrowater, supplies just 500 MLD to areas under Greater Chennai Corporation against the demand of 1100 MLD.
 
