Famous for being the inspiration behind actor  , innovator and educator   is now focussed on solving the housing problem in Ladakh. With several accolades to his credit including the Global Award for Sustainable Architecture (2017) and Rolex Award for Enterprise (2016), Wagchuk was in the city to explore a joint innovation project with IIT M. He talks to TOI about his early days, education and innovation. 
 
 
 
  
 We take in students who have been rejected by the system i.e those who have failed 10th grade. These kids may not be great with theory but are good at practical applications. They run the school themselves which helps us be self-sustaining from a financial perspective. The school is like a mini democracy governed by the students. From growing their own food to caring for animals and cleanliness and hygiene, the students handle it all. Our buildings are built with earth and material sourced locally, we run on solar energy. We have a student run company that managed student exchange programs besides others who are engaged in making products.
  
 We also have a University called the   which is open to all. The focus is on the mountains because technology that works in the plains does not work in the mountains.
  
 
 
 I grew up in a small village without a school. Till I was 8 and half years old, I didn’t get any formal education. That was the best time of my learning because I learnt from real people and their lives. While others were learning about roots, shoots and leaves from books, I learnt it by sowing seeds and watching them grow. We try and follow the same learning practises at our school. It is not natural for children to sit in a class for 8 hours. We want children to have a more natural way of learning.
 A lot of innovation is taking place in the country. However, the environment is not very conducive. We have schools that do not allow anything different, do not encourage questioning, parents that push students to do well in exams alone. This has to change. Children have to be allowed to question, to fail, think differently. Today, innovation is happening despite these constraints and not due to encouragement from society.
  
 
 
 
 Education should not be limited to an intellectual exercise. Today, it is too theoretical and not linked to life. The 3 hours (exam time) is all about intellect and nothing more. Education is about learning so one can apply these lessons to make others’ lives comfortable. It should make people who are sensitive to others needs and those who can live along with others in peaceful way. However, education can’t be limited to schools but is the onus of the society. Parents need to understand that their children need to be versatile, multi-skilled and capable of living in harmony with others and with nature. In our school, we try to bring 3Hs together – head, hand and heart.
  
 
 
 
 If you look at what I have worked on, it is high school science. You don’t need expensive materials or a fancy laboratory to innovate. Household things in the kitchen and garden are enough. In your worries about what we don’t have, we forget we have. Innovation can and will thrive in adversity, not in abundance. When you have too much, you don’t use your mind. It is when your resources are limited that necessity drives you to innovate.
  
 That’s what happened here at Ladakh. We built an ice glacier (ice stupa) to solve the water issues in Ladakh. We have now experimented with construction material that will help us keep houses warm without fuel. I dont believe in patents. I want to help others copy anything I make. I’ve travelled to Sikkim, Switzerland and Peru to help them build ice stupa. This world needs solutions and we can’t hold onto them.
 
