NAGPUR: Vimal Ingle, 50, who turned up at wedding venues draped in costly sarees and flaunting ornaments, would attend marriages of strangers only to decamp with valuables kept in purses from the venue.

 Having fought the 2012 civic election as an independent candidate from ward number 57 along with husband Sangeetbabu from south Nagpur, cops too were stunned after her alleged role in numbers of thefts at wedding venues across city came to fore. 
 
 Sitabuldi police, which have seized stolen materials worth around Rs8,200 from Vimal’s residence at Kaushalya nagar, claimed to have detected four offences so far which were perpetrated in the last couple of years. Police said that there is a high possibility of many more such thefts, committed by her, which may come to fore in the subsequent probe. Vimal is in police custody till March 2 next month. As of now, Sitabuldi police are hassled by Vimal’s non-cooperation. 
 
 Police, which are equipped with   footages, have claimed that Vimal’s involvement in the thefts at Kusumtai Wankhede hall near Alankar talkies, Sanman Lawn at   and Mahatma Phule hall at   have come to fore till date. Police decided to conduct a search at Vimal’s residence after arresting her on February 2 as she was nowhere ready to admit guilt before the police and also kept on flaunting her affiliation with a political party.
 
 She was nabbed during an investigation of theft of a purse, belonging to Deepali Raut, in February last year from Kusumtai Wankhede hall. Apart from cash Rs50,000, the purse also had around six tola gold and a mobile phone. 
 
 Police said Vimal’s sons, Karan and Dharmedra, are both externed from city for their criminal backgrounds. It was reliably learnt that following a clue, Karan was picked up by Sitabuldi police team under Senior PI Satyaveer Bandiwar comprising PSI Dnyaneshwar Kandekar, constables Kamlesh Ganer, Yogesh Ingle, Atul Chate and Nitin Shrirame from Kalmeshwar before being brought to city with the special permission from DCP, Zone 4, who had externed him for two years few weeks back.
 
 As the interrogations kicked off under the supervision of Zonal DCP Rakesh Kalasagar, the cops came across substantial evidence against Vimal which prompted them to pick her up too. 
 
 As the mother-son duo chose not to cooperate, the cops conducted searches at their residence from where substantial materials were recovered including expensive sarees, 20 pen-drives, iPad, card readers and so on, around 20 purses, dozen of wrist watches and pair of spectacles apart from cosmetics of various brands. The materials were kept concealed in the terrace.
 
 PI Bandiwar has appealed to the masses regarding strangers attending marriages or moving close to the stage where the gifts and valuables are kept. “Installing CCTVs and deploying solitary guards are no solution to thefts at wedding halls but what required is to remain alert especially regarding strangers near stage,” he said. 
 
