PATNA: The   (ED) has issued a notice for eviction of a flat from which the   ( ) runs its Bihar state office. The ED is under orders to confiscate the flat as its owner, Chandan Kumar, is an accused in a case of fraudulent withdrawals worth crores.

 The flat -- number 104 of   -- is located on Boring Road in Patna. The ED issued the notice on December 6 last year, seeking evacuation within ten days. Over two months on, the AAP has not vacated the flat.
 
 The fraud case came to light after the Bihar Police’s Economic Offences Unit (EOU) arrested one Shani Priyadarshi (32) of Patna’s   allegedly with 13 cloned bank cheques while he was travelling to Kolkata to deposit the cheques in bank accounts. 
 
 Investigations revealed two State Bank of India officials – Surendra Tiwary of Pataliputra branch in Patna and Prashant Kumar of Lajpat Nagar branch in Delhi – were providing scanned copy of cheques to the gang. 
 
 Shani was arrested by the EOU following a six-month tab after he bought a high-end Hayabusa mobike. The EOU later arrested his 13 accomplices, including Chandan.
 
 Sources said the Park View Apartment flat was purchased with money withdrawn fraudulently. “The gang fraudulently withdrew Rs 21 lakh even from the official bank account of Vaishali DM,” an EOU officer said on Friday.
 
 According to the sources, the trial of the case is going on in a special court in Patna. Three flats in Kolkata, two in Pataliputra, three on Boring Road, a two-storied building in Bihta and other assets have been seized so far in connection with the case.
 
 AAP’s Bihar unit media in-charge Bablu Prakash, however, clarified the notice was not issued to the party and, as such, handed over by it to the flat owner. “We are in the flat for the last couple of months or so. We have an 11-month agreement with the flat owner. We could know the gravity of the matter after it made headlines in the media,” he said and added an ED official called up on Friday and they sought time to vacate the premises.
 
 “We even told the official we will make the request in writing. But he said correspondence, if any, should be done with the ED’s Delhi office,” Prakash said, adding the party has mailed a letter in this regard to ed-del-rev@nic.in, which it got from the internet.
 
 “Why should we come in the way of the law of the land? But we need a few days’ time to shift our belongings,” the AAP functionary said. 
 
 He later called back TOI to say that he had a talk with Burari MLA Sanjiv Jha, who is in-charge of AAP’s Bihar affairs. “The MLA told us to vacate the premises on Monday if the ED doesn’t agree to give us time,” Prakash said.
 
