HYDERABAD: The Maple Shade Police have got some strong leads in the murder of Telugu woman Sasikala, 38, and her six-year-old son Anish Narra at their Fox Meadows Apartments. The murder took place on March 24 in New Jersey, USA. The police have got at least two leads that could help them identity the culprit. 

 The police have not ruled out the involvement of a woman in the murder.
 
 Sources told TOI that the police, after questioning several people known to Sasikala and her husband  , gathered vital clues. This is apart from the forensic evidence that has been gathered at the scene of offence.   was at an after-office-hour party on the day of the crime and this was corroborated. 
 
 What shocked the police was the brutality of the crime. The assailant stabbed the mother and the son several times in the face. There were stab wounds on Anish's hands which indicated that he tried to defend himself. "The crime is savage. There is too much barbarity. This goes to show that the culprit had extreme hatred and animosity towards the victims and was vengeful," sources said.
 
 Maple Shade police are working on the crime from the angle of domestic quarrel between the couple. "I took to the notice of the police the emails that Sasikala had written to her family in Vijayawada complaining about Hanumantha Rao's relationship with another woman. The messages that she sent to her family were also provided to the police," said Ravi Potluri, joint secretary of Telugu Association of   (TANA). Potluri also spoke to Sasikala's family in Vijayawada and informed them about the police investigation progressing from different angles. "It is premature to jump to any conclusion about the culprit. It is for the police to investigate and not for us to speculate," Potluri said. This is what he told Sasikala's family also.
 
 As part of their investigation, the police have also questioned some employees of the company where Sasikala worked.
 
  who heads the emergency assistance of the TANA said the bodies of Sasikala and Anish were handed over to the funeral home after the autopsy was performed. After embalming the bodies, the funeral home would hand over the bodies to the relatives to be sent home to India.
 
 Meanwhile, Hanumantha Rao who is now staying at a friend's place since his apartment has been sealed by the police, has told TANA that he would pay 15,000 need for sending the bodies to India. However, Cognizant, where Sasikala worked insisted on footing the bill. 
 
