It’s a happy coincidence for   and  . The hit director-producer jodi, who gave Hindi cinema audiences ' ' — the cult comedy with   in a double role 20 years ago — is back on the set to shoot for its sequel. And this time around, Varun Dhawan will play the twin roles.

 Sajid, who is known in industry circles for never forgetting a special date or occasion, had made big plans for the day. A source from the unit says, “Sajid bhai got the entire cast and crew together to be a part of this celebration.” As someone who respects family values, he got his mom and children to give the mahurat clap. 
 
 On his part, David got nostalgic about his enjoyable journey with Salman. However, the doting dad is now looking forward to directing son Varun in the second installment. While Salman had wooed Karisma Kapoor and Rambha in the original, Dhawan Jr will serenade Jacqueline Fernandez and Taapsee Pannu in the sequel, which releases on September 29. Like always, Sajid has roped in an interesting and fresh cast this time too, making 'Judwaa 2' one of the most awaited films of the year. Interestingly, Sajid is perhaps the only Bollywood producer to have so many successful sequels to his credit. Be it 'Judwaa', 'Housefull', 'Kick', ' ' or even 'Dishoom', his banner NGE (Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment) has consolidated its position, not only as a mass entertainer, but also as the leader of sequels. 
 
 For those who follow his work, this is hardly surprising. Sajid apparently leaves no stone unturned to ensure that the storylines and set-up of his sequels are unique and not a repetition of theirprevious parts. The year 2016 saw him giving us the third installment of the 'Housefull' franchise. The Akshay Kumar-starrers, popular for their slapstick humour, have each entered the enviable `100-crore club. Those who loved Tiger Shroff’s martial-art skills in 'Baaghi' also have reason to rejoice. The young actor is all set to floor the audiences again with his killer dance moves and stunts in 'Baaghi 2'. 
 
 Anticipation about John Abraham and Varun Dhawan’s return for 'Dishoom 2' is also high. And last but not least, there’s Sajid’s own directorial venture 'Kick', which had Salman Khan and   playing a cat-and-mouse game. The film, which crossed the `200-crore mark, is likely to get a sequel as well, but when the time is right. 
 
 Meanwhile, if trade is to be believed, NGE is currently working on as many as four sequels. Watch this space for more.
 
  
 
