Autism, a neurological disorder that affects children's development as well as social skills, has an incidence of 1 in 68 children. Statistics thus show that   is no longer as rare as it was previously considered. There is hence a need to increase the number of rehabilitation facilities as well schools for children with autism.

 In the run-up to World Autism Awareness Day on April 2, developmental pediatrician Dr   has prepared a list of myths and facts based on the studies conducted by his centre,  , in the recent years and published in various national and international journals. He is also associated with the evaluation centre at civic-run   that provides certification for children.
 
 
  It is better to "wait and see" if a child does better rather than refer the child for diagnostic assessment and intervention.
 
 
  If children with signs of Autism Spectrum Disorder are identified early and provided intervention, then their developmental gains are more significant. Children (average age at evaluation: 3 years 3 months) in a study showed marked improvement in social skills, communication skills, reduction in extreme response to touch, smell and taste.
 
 
 : Children who are on the Autism Spectrum only need therapy that works on developing their speech.
 
 
 : Children need a holistic intervention focusing on developing their skills. One of our studies shows that children who underwent a multi-disciplinary, individualized intervention demonstrated marked improvement.
 
 
 : Children with autism do not require hearing evaluation.
 
 : All children with developmental disorders (like autism) need a mandatory hearing evaluation, to rule out co-existing hearing loss. Through our study published in 2016, we analyzed clinical data pertaining to 1,301 children evaluated at our centres from 2009 to 2012, and found that 69 children had hearing loss (5.3%). Our ongoing analysis of 382 children referred for hearing evaluation (during 2014-2015) has shown that 28 children have hearing loss and 6 out of these children (21%) have been diagnosed with a developmental disorder.
 
 
  Children with autism cannot learn social and academic skills.
 
  Children with autism can learn social skills as well as academic skills if they receive consistent individualized, customized interventions and special education program. 
 
 
  Children with autism cannot attend mainstream schools. 
 
  Most children with ASD can attend mainstream schools. Children may need additional support, such as shadow teachers or aids in school based on their individual needs. In an outcome analysis study done by us, 54 out of 73 (73.8%) children diagnosed with ASD attend mainstream school.
 
 MYTH: People with autism cannot have successful lives as contributing members of society.
 FACT: Many people with autism are leading a successful life. This is most likely to happen when appropriate early intervention is provided.
 
