The best part about being in Delhi for   and   around this time was that they finally got a chance to wear their sweaters and jackets. “In Mumbai, we keep wondering where and when to wear these sweaters and jackets, I am so glad that finally I was able to wear some jackets in Delhi,” said Shraddha. Aditya was happy to “have the best of Delhi food.” He said, “From sarson da saag and makki ki roti to butter chicken, we tried almost every delicacy in Delhi. We have been eating so much.” The two were here for two days to promote their film ' '.

 
 Shraddha’s last film 'Rock On 2' did not work well at box office and makers of the film had said that demonetisation had had a major impact on the film. When asked to comment on that, Shraddha said, “You do feel bad when a film doesn’t work, but the good thing for me was that I got busy immediately after the release of that film. That helped in shifting my attention.” Talking about demonetisation, she added, “Mere ghar ke jo staff hai woh thode naraaz ho gaye thay, ki ab kaise hoga. I felt bad to see that and I guess all of us were affected by it but we all managed somehow. It is a good initiative which will help all of us in the long run.” Aditya shared that he used to go out in the night to check ATMs to withdraw money. “I stay in   and there are a lot of ATMs there, main raat ko nikalta tha ATMs ke chakkar lagane. The good thing now is that when you order food for home delivery they send a card swipe machine.”
 
  
  
 Shraddha and Aditya were in Delhi for two days to promote their film 'OK Jaanu'
 
 
 
 
 
 Recently, there were rumours of Shraddha dating   and that the two were planning to move in together. Though the question about the link-up with Farhan was not asked directly, the two actors were asked how comfortable would they be in a live-in relationship. Shraddha said, “I am open to the idea, but it will be a bit difficult for me as I have always stayed with my parents. But if I find a partner who I feel I can spend my life with, I have a future with, I may think about it. My father has this joke that if you don’t want to go, get your husband here, I am open to the idea.” Aditya added, “I have never been in a live-in relationship, but I am open to the idea. It should be the right person and the right time. But I won’t do anything my parents are not happy with.”
 
 
 The two had a meeting with Gulzar, with their director  , and said that “it was amazing meeting him.” Gulzar gave him one advice that Aditya said he will always keep in mind. “He said, ‘These days, I am noticing that many young actors are not speaking the language correctly. One should make time to work on it. If you are working in Hindi cinema, you should speak the language well.”
 
