VELLORE: Within a year of inauguration, the ‘A’ block of the   at   has developed multiple cracks and the plastering has given away in a few places.

 The two-storeyed building had come up at a cost of Rs 14.37 crore. It houses eight   halls – six magistrate courts, a fast track Mahila Court and an additional sessions court – along with office rooms, video conference and record rooms and a dining room. 
 
 However, the building has developed cracks at several places within 10 months after it came to use. "Vertical and horizontal cracks are found on the walls and pillars in more than 20 places. These are no air cracks. Plastering has also given away in several places. It is evident at the judicial magistrate court – V," said advocate B Rajaguru.
 
 In fact, the A block was constructed after a long wait. However, the cracks that have developed within a short period were disappointing and raising questions over the quality of the materials used and construction, he added.
 
 Hitherto the courts were functioning in ‘B’ block that came to use on October 25, 1997 when then Chief Minister   inaugurated it.
 
 The construction work had commenced after laying the foundation stone for the project on March 8, 2015. The A block was inaugurated on November 26, 2016 by Madras High Court Judge M V Muralidaran, who was also the portfolio judge of Vellore, in the presence of minister for law, court and prisons C Ve Shanmugam, ministers K C Veeramani and Nilofer Kafeel.
 
 Officials in the District Combined Court Complex said they were not aware of the cracks and also did not receive any complaints till date. The officials, nonetheless, stated that they would take stock of the issue and report to the PWD department to take up the repair works.
 
 "Cracks will develop in sinkage period (within one year of construction) in new buildings. The building contractor will be asked to attend the problems and rectify it once we receive complaints from the authorities," said executive engineer of public works department (buildings) Ramamurthy.
 
 When asked whether cracks in all new buildings were common, he refused to comment.
 
