BENGALURU: The murder of a 10-year-old girl, who went missing from her home in Magadi last week, is a case of human sacrifice, said police, citing confessions of four accused arrested for the crime.

 The arrested are  , 42, from Magadi, his sister Rashidunisa, 36, from Bengaluru, Naseema Taj, 33, who claimed to be a sorceress, and a 17-year-old minor. The four allegedly murdered Ayesha Mohammed Nurulla, a resident of   in the town.
 
 Wasil and Rashidunisa, who are siblings, allegedly engaged Bengaluru’s Naseema Taj to perform witchcraft to cure their elder brother Mohammed Rafiq who had suffered a paralytic stroke earlier in February.
 
 As medical treatment wasn’t showing results, Rashidunisa approached Naseema, a black magic practitioner in Bengaluru’s JJ Nagar. Naseema told the family that if they don’t sacrifice a 10-year-old girl in 45 days, their brother would die, the accused told police.
 
 Soon, Wasil began looking for a girl and realized that his neighbour and cousin Mohammad Noorulla’s daughter could fit the bill. There were some disputes between the families as well. When the preparations were being made, Wasil took a picture of Ayesha and sent it to Naseema through WhatsApp and she agreed with his choice.
 
 On March 1, the three of them went to Ayesha’s house around 8.30pm. While the girl’s mother, Jameela, was preparing dinner and Nurulla was taking bath, Ayesha was sitting and reading. The trio called her out and kidnapped her. They took Ayesha to a property owned by Wasil in an isolated location in Hosahalli on the outskirts of Magadi. They locked her inside a room for a day. On March 2, Rashidunisa and Naseema took an autorickshaw to Magadi from Bengaluru. On their way, they picked up material required for performing the black magic.
 
 On March 2 night, they brought Ayesha out of the room and began performing the rituals. Lakshmi Ganesh, DySP, Magadi, said the rituals were performed both during the day and night. “The property owned by Wasil was in an isolated area,” he said.
 
 All through, the paralyzed brother of the accused,  , was present at the location. After some rituals, they strangled Ayesha with the ribbon she had used to tie her hair. On March 3, on Naseema’s instructions, they packed the child’s body in a gunny bag and threw it to the right side of a mosque nearby.
 
 When passersby noticed dogs sniffing at the bag and went near it, they found a child’s head popping out. Later, cops also recovered a gunny bag containing lemons, broken black bangles, rosewater and flowers nearby. 
 
 Based on Nurulla’s statement, police picked up Wasil for questioning. Narulla had told cops that he and Wasil shared differences and that the child's body was found near Wasil's plot. Grilled, Wasil spilled the beans and led police to the women who were his associates. A minor who assisted the elders in the gruesome crime too has been arrested
 
