On Thursday,   welcomed a new batch of fuchchas. With the rain playing spoilsport, the first day started a little slow, but things soon picked up and the seniors made sure that freshers got a warm welcome. While some colleges, like Ramjas, gave a traditional welcome with flowers and tikas at the entrance, other colleges, like KMC, made sure that the new students had a hassle-free day and stationed anti-ragging squads. 

  
  (BCCL/  )
 
  
 Though classes at most colleges were scheduled to begin around 9am, many freshers did not manage to reach before 11am due to the rain. When we reached   in the morning, it looked a little desolate, but by 11am, it became more lively. 
 
  Shruti, who has joined   and will be pursuing Chemistry (Hons), told us that she started from home at 8am, but reached the campus only by 10.30am. "The Metro was slow and I was already late. Then the rickshaw-pullers were not ready to come to Hans Raj because of the rain. I finally reached college after it stopped raining," she told us. 
 
  
  Seniors welcome freshers at  
 
 
   , another fresher from Hans Raj, came all the way from  . She said, “It was raining heavily in Kurukshetra. We were hoping that it won't be raining in Delhi, but when we reached here, we were all drenched. I also got late because of the rain.”
 
  
 Despite the rain, seniors made sure that they gave a proper welcome to the freshers. While in most colleges seniors distributed roses, Ramjas went a step ahead and welcome fuchchas with tikas and rose petals at the entrance. Janvi Shahi, who has taken admission in BCom (Programme) at Ramjas College, said, "I thought it was going to be a regular day, par humare seniors ne toh humein surprise hi kar diya. Humein tika lagaya, rose petals daale, like we were chief guests. It was nice."
 
 
  
  
 
  Megha, a second-year student, told us, "This is a big day for all the juniors and we wanted them to feel special. There is nothing better than a traditional welcome." Deepansha Grover, a fresher at Ramjas, added, "It was really nice. Thoda sa surprising laga, but I appreciate the efforts."
 
 
