JAIPUR: The Sanskrit language has around one crore to three crore manuscripts in multiple disciplines which is far more than the manuscripts of ancient civilizations of Greece or Rome which were not more than 30,000, said Jim Mallinson, senior lecturer in Sanskrit and classical and Indian studies at the  , during the session on ‘Pleasures and Perfections of Sanskrit’ at the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) on Saturday.

 He stated that these manuscripts were on every possible subject. “The need is to preserve them from vanishing. The Indian climate is not suitable for paper and every week hundreds of them are decaying,” said Mallinson, known for his translation of ancient texts such as ‘Khecharividya’ and ‘Shiva Samhita’.
 
 Sudha Gopalakrishnan, former chief of the   (NMM), said, “Somebody asked if I have manuscripts in my database about health or, to be precise, eye problems. I found 500 ancient manuscripts related to the subject. This gives you an idea about the colossal information in these manuscripts from all disciplines from architecture to aesthetic and from beauty to mathematics.”
 
 NMM has around 40 lakh manuscripts and have digitized over two lakh manuscripts.
 
 Replying to a question on Sanskrit being an exclusive language of the elites or Brahmins, S R Bhatt, chairman of the  , disagreed with the popular notion. “Sanskrit has been a language of elites to speak to the masses. King Janak, a non-brahmin was a well-known Sanskrit philosopher,” he said.
 
 While explaining that the language was gender neutral and accepted by other faiths, Bhatt said, “Well-known ancient philosophers—Maitri and Gargi—and the earliest manuscripts of Jainism and Buddhism in Sanskrit disproves the claim.”
 
 Quoting a recent excavation report, author Vikram Chandra stated that an island in Africa, which was on the established trade route to Europe, had ancient graffiti in Sanskrit on the walls. “The island which was a resting place for sailors had 193 wall writings, including 159 in Sanskrit and the rest in other Indic languages. Here, the writer is identified as ‘vani’ (trader), ‘navika’ (boat captain), etc. This proves that Sanskrit was not used only by elite but by all people,” said Chandra.
 
 Bhatt called for promoting the language by stating that Hebrew, which was once considered a dead language, was flourishing since the formation of Israel. All the panelists agreed that the language has to be promoted but not imposed. “To make it attractive, make it adaptable,” said Bhatt.
 
 
