GANDHINAGAR: While the besieged Congress whisked away its MLAs to Bengaluru, to insulate them from poaching attempts of the  , this may not put the brakes on breakdown in the party. Reports have emerged that three or four MLAs have begun to insist that they be allowed to return, within just 24 hours. 

 The Congress leadership denied these reports, saying that the MLAs were taken down south to “be kept safe from BJP’s poaching attempts and pressure tactics”. 
 
 There is speculation about six MLAs in Bengaluru, all Vaghela supporters, will likely cross vote in the Rajya Sabha elections on August 8. 
 
 The future Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Congress president  , is at stake. The BJP has already induced defections by six Congress MLAs in the last three. Reports suggest at about a dozen more will defect and ruin Patel’s chances for a fifth Rajya Sabha term.
 
 The names of the likely defectors doing the round are Gova Rabari, the   from flood-affected Deesa, Dharshi Khanpura, MLA from Kankrej which is also flood affected and Mahesh Patel from Palanpur. All three have said they want to be in their constituencies, during this trying time. The MLAs reportedly had heated arguments with Congress MLA  , who is coordinating the Bengaluru sojourn. All three MLAs could not be reached over the phone.
 
 Gujarat deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, said, “It’s shameful that instead of allowing their MLAs to be among the flood affected people, they have imprisoned them in Karnataka. Instead of taking their MLAs in confidence, the Congress is showing such low-level politics to secure a Rajya Sabha seat for Ahmed Patel, who has not allowed any other person to grow in the last 24 years.”
 
 Shankersinh Vaghela, who visited flood-affected areas of Banaskantha on Saturday, said, “MLAs must be with the people in this situation. However, I am not in contact with anyone.”
 
 Paresh Dhanani, one of the few Congress MLAs allowed to speak to media over the phone, said, “The BJP is spreading all kind of lies. Our three MLAs from Banaskantha had to take this decision despite the concern for their constituencies, because of the threat to their lives. We have not brought any MLAs here by force. All have come voluntarily.”
 
 Gujarat Congress president, Bharatsinh Solanki, said, “Our workers are all in the field to help the people, but to prevent the BJP from threatening our MLAs, we had to take them away. Instead of helping people in flood-affected areas, the entire BJP government is busy trying to damage the Congress and poaching our MLAs.”
 
 Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Gujarat in-charge Ashok Gehlot, state unit president Bharatsinh Solanki and others are likely to visit the flood-affected areas of north Gujarat.
 
