SURAT:   may get reduced supply of   from the world’s largest   company, De Beers. 

 The company, according to the US-based Rapaport Group, has reduced the supply of rough diamonds by over 20 per cent under the intention to offer (ITO) filed by its clients, majority of who are Gujarati diamantaires from India, Antwerp and Dubai. 
 
 The reason being that De Beers had signed an agreement with Namibian Government last year, committing to allocate 15 per cent of its Namibia production to state-owned company Namdia, to support diamond manufacturing. 
 
 The De Beers has been supplying rough diamonds on contract basis to its clients through ITO-an indication from the clients on how much rough diamonds will be required for the coming year. The company has about 80 core clients at its international sights, which take place 10 times a year in Botswana. As a part of its beneficiation programme, it also supplies roughs in separate sights to 11 local sightholders in Namibia, 20 in Botswana and seven in South Africa.
 
 With the new   starting in April, sightholders are bracing up for lower supply given   new commitments to Namibia and a similar arrangement already in place in Botswana, where the government takes 15 per cent of local production to sell via Okavango Diamond Company. 
 
 De Beers allocates an additional 10% of its production to its auction business before distributing the remainder through the sight system. 
 
 Sightholders have estimated that allocations will be up to 20 per cent lower under the new ITO arrangement - which begins at the next sight in April – than they were in the previous one.
 
 “We are expecting a big impact at the annual sale sights. The supply is going to be low due to the company’s commitments in Botswana and Namibia,” said a sightholder. 
 
 De Beers this week held its third sight of the year – the last one in the current ITO period – and sold $580 million worth diamonds, which was lower than its $666 million during the same month in previous year.
 
 
