CHANDIGARH: A surprise inspection of   in Sector 7 here brought to light certain aspects like running of classes in the basement, grills missing from classroom windows and lack of CCTV cameras in classrooms. The inspection team gave certain suggestions and asked the school authorities to follow these at the earliest.

 The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) inspected KB DAV Public School, Sector 7-B, Chandigarh, on Thursday as part of the surprise inspection drive, keeping in view the safety and security of the children and implementation of the   Act-2009. The school was asked to immediately discontinue holding of classes in the basement and to get CCTV cameras installed in the classrooms. The school was told to have web-based CCTV cameras in classrooms of pre-school classes i.e. playway, pre-nursery, nursery, KG classes and the IP address of these cameras be given to the parents.
 
 School principal Pooja Parkash was told that the cleaning material i.e. toilet cleaner, phenol, etc. should be kept out of reach of students as such material was found lying outside washrooms. “During inspection it was found that the schools had put the CCTV cameras in places from where the classroom could not be covered properly. The control of all CCTV cameras was with the principal and administration office. All sensitive areas should have CCTV cameras,” said Harjinder Kaur, chairperson of the CCPCR.
 
 Cleanliness in the school was found to be satisfactory. School buses were checked by the  . Almost all buses were following norms, however, drivers of these buses were asked to not allow children to sit in the front seats. The principal of the school said that, “We have taken note of all suggestions and these will be implemented at the earliest.”
 
 Chairperson of the commission was accompanied by Viney R Sood, member, CCPCR-cum-deputy director,  , Kartar Singh, law officer, CCPCR, and Chanchal Singh, RTE consultant, CCPCR, along with the Chandigarh Traffic Police officials.
 
