When you have been in the film industry for over three decades, things tend to get monotonous. Knowing this all too well,   ensures that when he signs on the dotted line for a film, it is the story and the role that excite him. And this is what happened when he was approached by director Yogi G Raj for   Combines’  . Even as he is awaiting the release of this film, he is already busy on the set of his next, which is where he took some time out to speak with us. Excerpts from an interview…

 
 
 The story is not about a single person, but about many people. Although I play the hero, he is not the hero in the regular sense. The movie is about what happens when my character returns to India after having lived abroad, and what he sees in his village. He educates himself about the situation and works towards bettering it. It’s an interesting and different take.
 
 
 
 I got a the same feeling about this film as I did with   (2003), which was all about going back to one’s roots. I’ve have been going to my father’s village since I was a child and have seen the problems that the farmers face. As an actor, I have been vocal and have taken part in strikes regarding water sharing and other such issues. It is important to stand by farmers, know what it’s like to be in their position and give them moral support. I got to do that in part through this film.
 
 
 
 Veteran actors such as   and   have known me since I was a child, so it was very easy to work with them. Others in the film have a very 
 relevant role to play.   and Sadhu Kokila have beautiful comedy tracks that aren’t forced. It will be a delight to watch them.
 
 
 
 I don’t want to reveal anything about that, but it will all be known once you watch the film. Audiences will get to know who the bangarada manushya (golden man) is after they watch the movie.
 
 
 
 For a youngster, to do a film like this is surprising. This is Yogi’s second film, so I was surprised that he approached me with such a story. He’s a good friend and a very promising director. The whole technical team consists of youngsters, who have all worked very hard. They all know where to correct themselves and since they are all working for friends, they are very careful about the outcome. That made me believe in them. I was only worried about the script, but that touched my heart. So, it was smooth sailing.
 
 
 
 It is good to be busy. For some roles, I am required to sport a stubble, while for others, I am required to be clean shaven. There are roles for which I need to have an arrogant air about me. So, there is a lot of variety in my films, which is very important since that is what keeps me interested in what I am doing. Otherwise, it becomes clichéd. 
 
