Nagpur: “Our lives today are stressful and tension and worry has become a part of our daily routine. In such a situation,   is a big boon and helps us de-stress,” said Ashok Chandak, president of Rotary Club of Nagpur South East. He was speaking during the Hasya Kavi Sammelan organized by the club at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, on Sunday. 

 Five poets from different parts of the country entertained the audience with their humour, while at the same time, giving a commentary on the current situation in the country. Parodies, satires, humours stories and poems, all formed a part of the event which was aimed at giving the audience a laughter-filled night. 
 
 “In between all the problems that we face in our day-to-day life, we often forget to put on a smile on our face. We just wanted to make people happy and make them live in this moment of joy, forgetting all their troubles,” said Chandak. Poets Jani Bairagi from Dhar, Govind Rathi from Sujalpur, Neeti Saxena Mayuri from Dehradun, Parth Naveen from Rajasthan and Mahesh Tiwari from Nagpur entertained the crowd with their sense of humour. 
 
 The poets took digs at various public figures and made jokes on topics ranging from politics, bollywood, love, friendship and everything that forms a part of our life. “It has been proved by numerous studies that laughter is actually the best medicine to cure any ailment. One should always laugh at the jokes that our own life throws at us so that we don’t have to take any other medicine,” said Mayuri. 
 
 Taking a dig at a famous Godman and his son, Rathi said, “I don’t think that the son is to be blamed. We have misjudged him. Since our childhood, boys are always asked to be like their father. Maybe, he just took this advice too literally.” This left many a member of the audience in splits. 
 
 Commenting on politicians, Naveen said, “One who does not listen to his mother is Rahul Gandhi, one who does not listen to his father is Akhilesh Yadav, the one who listen to nobody is Narendra Modi and the one who nobody listens to is Arvind Kejriwal.” Naveen presented his satires in the form of rewritten Bollywood songs.
 
 
