NEW DELHI: More than a year after the   set up a "feedback unit",   has ordered its closure. Earlier in March, along with this direction, he had also ordered termination of the contractual staff appointed for the unit.

 It is learnt from sources that the unit -which is being described by the opposition as a 'spying' unit -was closed in the backdrop of an ongoing CBI inquiry in the matter. Moreover, it was felt that not only was its purpose somewhat ambiguous but the appointment of the contractual staff was not according to norms and process. The government's feedback unit, comprising retired police and security experts, was created ostensibly to gather information about officials and departments under the Delhi government. It has been alleged that 20 posts were created but the file was not approved by LG.
 
 The vigilance department had submitted a proposal for setting up the unit which was approved by the chief minister on October 28, 2015.It was to report to the vigilance secretary. The unit became functional in February 2016 and funds and other resources were allocated to it.
 
 In January, the CBI filed a preliminary inquiry in the matter after a complaint (vigilance report) was forwarded to it by the then LG, Najeeb Jung.
 
 A 'vigilance report' that has surfaced 足 TOI couldn't independently verify its authenticity 足 makes allegations of violation of rules and regulations and lapses in earmarking funds amounting to Rs 1 crore. It also raises questions over the propriety of conducting a sting operation at a private school 足 since it doesn't come under the purview of Prevention of Corruption Act 足 and questions the very identity of the official of Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) who conducted the sting.
 
 The ACB chief, Mukesh Meena, alleged on Friday that no one by the identity provided existed in ACB.
 
 Defending his government's decision, deputy chief minister   said there was nothing wrong in setting up such a unit."Every state should have a feedback unit and every government has it. The government should communicate with its people and take feedback. I don't think there is anything wrong in it," he said at a press conference on Friday.
 
 The order gave BJP yet another opportunity to attack chief minister   and accuse him of "misusing his position and public money". Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in the assembly, alleged: "The unit directly reported to the CM, who didn't keep any department with him. He misused his position and public money for political gains and to settle scores with rivals."
 
