KOLKATA: She clenches her   but bears the pain as she pulls herself up from the   steps. She drags her unsteady feet till they can’t bear her weight any longer and has to be helped back to the chair. But   and ready to walk a longer distance. The 26-year-old nurse from Manipur, who had slipped into coma after being hit on the head by a dengue patient with an iron rod last October, needs to undergo a   to get back on her feet. Discharged from hospital on Wednesday after three-and-a-half months, she also needs treatment to regain her speech.

 “I am happy that my daughter is finally out of hospital but she stares at an uncertain future. Victoria needs therapy to be able to resume normal physical activities. So, she must be in Kolkata now. I would like to stay back in the city and continue her treatment rather than take her back to Manipur,” said her father Kunjabihari Thokchom, who has been fleeting in and out of Kolkata along with her younger daughter.
 
 On October 20, Victoria was on duty at the ICU of a nursing home in south Kolkata when a dengue patient assaulted her with a rod. She suffered a fracture in her skull and multiple clots in the brain. She also lost the ability to speak.
 
 Victoria had slipped into coma for a month and went through two successful surgeries. Ever since, she has been recovering slowly. “It has been a long process but she has recovered very well. It could take her several more months to regain her movements and speech, provided she receives the right therapy,” said RP Sengupta, chairman of the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK) where Victoria has been undergoing treatment.
 
 Her family fears that her recovery may hit a stumbling block due to lack of facilities and funds. “With generous help from her professional colleagues in Kolkata, we have somehow managed to bear the treatment expenses. But we have run out of funds and can only afford rice and dal at home, which she won’t be able to consume. Also, she needs therapy which can only be done in Kolkata. But I don’t have a place to stay in the city,” said her father. Thokchom has been living in a rented apartment in Dhakuria but would prefer to move either to the Manipur House or to a cheaper accommodation.
 
