AHMEDABAD: Cricket commentary is a tough job as one has to make even a mediocre game seem interesting. At Sunday’s ‘pitched’ battle between IAS-XI and IPS-XI, had it not been for the witty one-liners of IAS officers Anita Karwal and Anju Sharma and the tongue-in-cheek way with words of additional DGP  , the match would have been a mundane affair. For a change, their commentary was not doped with Sidhuisms or Harsha Bhogle-type comments. It was freshly cooked humor and served directly from the corridors of power.

  The match, held in   at Navrangpura, was won by IPS-XI by 35 runs.
 
 When the fielders had their share of refreshments, Karwal said, “Fielder piye hue hai. Batsmen soch rahe hain hum kyon pichhe rah jain (Fielders have had their ‘refreshment’ drinks and the batsmen is thinking why should they be left behind). Karwal called the IPS-XI as the “Sunhare Ladke” (Golden Boys), referring to the colour of their T-shirt.
 
  Jha was first to go. He had made just four runs. He joined the ladies in the commentary box. Just then, Sector-1 JCP Piyush Patel managed a quick single.
 
 Jha commented: “Ek run chura liya (He managed to steal a single)”. Karwal quickly responded, “Chori aap ka kam nahi hai (Stealing is not your job).” Jha replied, “Kabhi kabhi exceptions hote hain (There can be exceptions)”. 
 
 Till then a silent Anju Sharma chipped in with a witty remark. “Aap (Shivanand Jha) chori ki bat karte hain, IPS officer ki patni (Anita Karwal) pine ki baat karti hai..Rajya ke law and order ke bare mein bahot nahi bolungi (You (Shivanand Jha) are talking about thefts, IPS officer’s wife (Anita Karwal) is talking about drinking. I won’t comment on the state’s law and order situation).” 
 
  A while later it was the IPS-XI’s turn to bowl. After a string of loud appeals had been turned down by the umpire, Anju Sharma commented: “Yeh cricket ka maidan hai, riot ka nahi. IPS wale yeh dhyan rakhe (I would like to remind IPS officers that this is a cricket field and not a riot)”. 
 
 Karwal commented in a lighter vein that the IAS-XI will come up with two extra posts of cricket umpires if the appeals don’t stop. In fact a few IAS officers got nicknames on the ground. IAS officer Mukesh Puri was called “Udta Punjab” while  , was called “Home grown Kohli”. Dwivedi hit a six and scored an unbeaten 52 runs. 
 
