Nagpur: The seven-member committee, attached to the office of deputy director of health, started probe into the alleged rape of a 13-year-old inmate of Regional Mental Hospital on Nagpur-Chhindwara Road. 

 The committee is expected to submit the report to deputy director of health Dr Sanjay Jaiswal soon. 
 
 The committee, which visited Shraddhanand Anathalaya on South Ambazari Road, interacted with the rape survivor. This is the second rape complaint filed by the survivor within a few months. 
 
 She had lodged a complaint against her former orphanage co-inmate at Bajaj Nagar police station in January this year. The committee now aims to record statements of the concerned persons. 
 
 In another development, mental hospital attendant Lokesh Gaugahede, who was nabbed on Friday following the rape complaint by the former inmate, was produced before the court by Mankapur police on Saturday. 
 
 The court remanded Gangahede to police custody till July 25. Gangahede’s arrest had sparked off an unrest at the hospital too as the staffers refused to work as protest. The situation was later brought under control.
 
 Sources from the Shraddhanand Anathalaya vowed to help the rape survivor emerge from the trauma. 
 
 “We are saddened by the fact that the teenager had to face similar trauma within such a short. More than the crime, the trauma of repeatedly narrating the incident before various agencies is taxing,” said an employee of the orphanage.
 
 Refuting the argument that the survivor was ‘mad’, the Shraddhanand Anathalaya employees claimed that the teenager was a quick learner. 
 
 “She is good in mathematics quite and drawing. She is also interested in English. She is studying in a school and her performance is good,” said an orphanage employee and added, “She hallucinates about her past male co-inmate and had tried to end her life but she is not mentally unstable.” 
 
 The Shradhhanand anathalaya counsellors are now trying to ensure that the rape survivor resumes school soon. 
 
 “We are ensuring that she is spending her time in some or the other activities under our vigilance. She is being also sent to the craft section to develop her skills now,” said another.
 
 The rape survivor, who is a native of Uttar Pradesh, had been shifted to Nagpur in her early days. Her mother too was being treated at the mental hospital from where she was sent to an orphanage under missionaries. She had been later shifted to another private orphanage from where district child protection unit had rescued her, along with others, after her filing of rape complaint. After rescue, she was sent to Government shelter home and then to Shraddhanand Anathalaya. She was under treatment at Regional mental hospital from last few months. 
 
 Bajaj Nagar police have sought legal opinion
 
 Bajaj Nagar police have sent a report to the zonal law officer seeking legal opinion on the issue of registering offence against the management of the orphanage where the 13-year-old rape survivor was staying. She has claimed before police that the private orphanage management did not pay heed to her grievances of being sexually exploited by another inmate within the premises. The girl’s former orphanage inmate has been already arrested by the Bajaj nagar police in January after she had complained against her.
 
 
