A day after filmmaker   announced a biopic on the late NT  , video clips of the former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister’s wife   
crying foul have been trending. Reacting to speculation that NTR’s son   will play his dad on screen, Lakshmi Parvathi said that the biopic would turn out to be a “farce”. “I am not against the biopic. In fact, I welcome the idea. but, the movie should reflect the entire truth about his life — especially the isolation and pain he suffered during his last days after he was ‘dethroned’ from power by his own family. This cannot be possible if Balakrishna plays the lead role. He supported  , who backstabbed NTR and usurped power in the ‘Viceroy Hotel’ episode,” said Lakshmi. 
 
 Pointing out that RGV himself had portrayed NTR in poor light in his film Raktha Charithra, Lakshmi said, “He (RGV) is always creating controversy. He portrayed NTR as a shrewd man who plays dirty politics in his previous film. So now it’s funny to hear him say how great NTR was. So what’s the guarantee that he will be able to present NTR’s story fearlessly onscreen? Will Chandrababu Naidu allow it? These are questions that need to be answered. If the film portrays Naidu as the hero, I will object and not hesitate to take legal action.”
 I am not against the biopic. In fact, I welcome the idea. but, the movie should reflect the entire truth about his life — especially the pain and isolation he suffered during his last 
 days after he was ‘dethroned’ from power by his own family. This cannot be possible if Balakrishna plays the lead role. He supported Chandrababu Naidu, who backstabbed NTR and usurped power in the ‘Viceroy Hotel’ episode
 — Lakshmi Parvathi
 
 Only mavayya can do justice to the role of NTR
 Nara Lokesh, son-in-law of Balakrishna and IT Minister of Andhra Pradesh, said, “It’s a good thing that a film is being planned on the legendary NTR. In fact, my ‘Mavayya’ garu and I had discussed the idea of a biopic, a long time ago. Even recently, when I met him in Portugal on his birthday, we felt the time was ripe to go ahead with a biopic. Only he can do justice to the role of NTR.”-Nara Lokesh
 
 My biopic will tell the truth about NTR’s life
 my biopic on the great NTR will tell the whole truth about his life — who his enemies were, who backstabbed him, and will reveal the truth behind the controversial stories about him that no one knows. The Telugu people will find out all this about their great leader in my film, very soon.
 — RGV
 
 
 
