Step into the   and you might wonder for a second if you have arrived at a police station or a playschool. 

 The sight of colourful see-saws and other children’s play equipment greets you, besides a cradle in one of the rooms inside. But no, the initiative is an effort from the part of the Janamaithri Police to make police stations child-friendly, a move which has been lauded as a noteworthy one by many. Following the footsteps of Kochi, Trivandrum Fort, Kollam Town, Kollam East, Thrissur Town East and Kozhikode Town police stations will follow suit. So what exactly is it all about? We find out.
 
 
 
 M P Dinesh, Kochi City Commissioner Dinesh says that the very sight of rifles and revolvers and men in khaki will naturally evoke fear in kids. “We wanted to make a difference to the entire atmosphere by bringing in see-saws, colourful paintings on the walls, etc.” he says. The initiative has been made a reality by the Janamaithri police, with the support of UNICEF, and was put forward in the wake of a spurt of crimes against children in the State.
  “We are also planning to provide washrooms and restrooms where mothers can feed their infants,” says ACP K Lalji, Kochi. “At times, kids may accompany women who come to the station with a complaint or with problems in their domestic life. They might also want to address children’s issues. There has been no facility so far for children in such situations. This step would be revolutionary for sure, and others in the State will hopefully follow it.”
 
 
 
 If all goes well, children who are in need of a secure and comfortable place to study will also be provided a space in the police stations, says Dinesh, “There are kids who don’t have the basic amenities or the right atmosphere to study in their homes, which is why this idea was mooted. In the evenings, after school, these kids can come here without fear and study.”
 
 The children can thus sit in the police station from 6 pm to 8 pm, and study in peace. Dinesh adds, “They will be provided with chairs, study tables and reference books as well. We are sure it will relieve their young minds of a lot of stress.”
 
 
 
 As of now, police stations in Trivandrum will focus only on making the station child-friendly. “We will be doing it one step at a time,” says Sparjan Kumar, City Commissioner. The police usually give the children a patient listening at their homes. “In order to make it happen at the station itself, the atmosphere has to be more accommodating, so that they feel we are accessible.”
 
 Sparjan is of the opinion that it is important that the entire atmosphere of the police station is made approachable and convenient, and the kids be given proper counselling. “Modifications will be made so as to rid the kids of any fear of the police, and to engage with them more effectively. Though we have space constraints, we are planning to make a small playground, and incorporate a reading room, along with other necessities.”
 
 Sandhya Menon, a resident of Kadavanthra, says that the move is indeed a step in the right direction, for children to lose their fear of the cops or the police station. She says, “I was always scared of police stations as a child. Even today, it is one of my biggest fears, and I hesitate even when I want to file a complaint. However, recently when I took a stroll through the area, I felt more comfortable. With this move, women and children can walk in without fear, I’m sure, if they need help.”
 
