KOCHI: With rising mercury levels, roadside vendors, especially juice sellers, are making brisk business in the city. 

 “I sell homemade buttermilk and lime sharbat in my shop and avoid selling bottled fizzy drinks. I prefer to store ice made with bottled water as we cannot vouch for the quality of ice bought from outside,” said Joseph Chandy, a juice seller at Banerji Road.
 
 Chandy has been running the shop for almost 25 years and he sells buttermilk and sharbat at Rs 10 and Rs 12, respectively. 
 
 Roadside shops experience heavy rush from 10am to 3pm. “Watermelon and carrot juices have more takers as they are the best summer coolers and considered to be healthy,” said a juice vendor at Kaloor.
 
 Vendors said that they mainly source water from the corporation taps. 
 
 However, sale of refreshing drinks at certain places such as   is affected by the heat as people who are scared of the scorching heat, tend to sit back at home in afternoons. 
 
 “These shops now see more people coming in at night,” says   K M, who sells cut fruits. 
 
 He uses packaged drinking water and sources ice from a vendor in Ravipuram.
 
 Noushad, who has a sugarcane juice stall at Shanmugham Road, says that he sells each glass of juice at Rs 20 in which he adds additional elements such as lime and ginger for a reviving effect. 
 
 “Raw mango kulukki sharbat is one of the best-selling drinks,” says Xavier P P who owns a 24-hour juice shop at High Court Junction. 
 
 “I’m not worried of the hygiene of these drinks as it refreshes me and has never affected my health condition,” said Sebastian Antony, a regular customer of this shop.
 
 Meanwhile, the food safety department has been conducting periodical checks on these roadside stalls by taking samples and conducting laboratory tests. 
 
 They said sellers have to buy their ice from   licenced vendors and use chlorinated water for making juices. 
 
 District food safety officer K V Shibu said, “Although no serious issues have cropped up in summer, minor irregularities were found and violators were fined. Usually the juice vendors are let off with a warning and are made aware of the safety regulations to be followed.”
 
