SURAT: The   blame   (GRP) for illegal liquor supply into city limits by bootleggers by trains after they had seized 150 litre of country liquor from near railway line at Udhna on Thursday. On the other hand, GRP seized liquor worth Rs4,100 from two areas of the city police adjoining the railway tracks here on Friday. The blame game being played between them is reminiscent of the incident witnessed after the hooch tragedy in 2016 even as the city police have not yet nabbed any accused responsible for selling or manufacturing the spurious liquor.

 The investigation in the hooch tragedy that claimed 23 lives in August-September 2016 in Surat city and rural areas could not move forward as the city police and rural police were engaged in a blame game over the incident. First two deaths due to spurious liquor’s consumption had occurred in Limbayat area of the city but the city police blamed rural police, claiming that the liquor had come from Niyole in rural Surat. However, rural police claimed that the liquor was not supplied from rural area. 
 
 “Liquor coming to the city through railway route is a matter of major concern for us. We will keep a strict vigil on trains and around the railway tracks. Our men will also travel in some trains from Vapi up to Surat and patrol the railway tracks in the city,” city police commissioner   said. 
 
 “We seized over 150 litre of country liquor from railway’s jurisdiction on Thursday and handed over the investigation to the GRP,” said Sharma. Interestingly, no accused was nabbed with the country liquor that was seized from a house in the slums near the railway tracks in Udhna.
 
 “On Friday, GRP investigated the source of the country liquor and it was found that some people from Sachin area of the city had brought it to the location on a motorcycle. We will declare more details about it once the investigation is over,” said P K Diyora, deputy superintendent of police, Surat railway division.
 
 Meanwhile, GRP raided two slum houses on both sides of the railway tracks. “We seized liquor worth Rs2,000 from a house in the slums of Patel Nagar in Varachha police station limits and Rs2,100 worth liquor from   police station area,” added Diyora.
 
 Meanwhile, the cops from city police were keeping watch on a train on Friday when some unidentified persons dropped 84kg of ganja on to the ground from a coach of a train near Surat railway station. The case was registered by GRP after the seizure of the ganja.
 
