MUMBAI: An old grudge over pet goats spiralled into a kidnapping and extortion drama, with the victims briefly ending up in police custody. Police said a gang of three people posing as crime branch personnel abducted three men right outside the sessions court in Colaba on June 8, drove them down to Ghatkopar police station, beating and robbing them of Rs 1 lakh on the way. To end their act on a 'credible' note, before they escaped the fake cops handed their victims over to Ghatkopar police claiming the trio were 'wanted criminals'.

 However, the men were caught on CCTV footage of Ghatkopar police station and one, identified as   alias Pappu (37), was arrested on Friday and booked under   sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 384 (extortion), 365 (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). Police are looking for the two others.
 
 According to the police,   a doctor, who lives in Gausia Nagar, Ghatkopar, had a fight with his neighbour   over some pet goats.The argument escalated into a physical fight and both ended up filing FIRs against each other. Malick's family took anticipatory bail while Khan's family members went to the sessions court to seek anticipatory bail when they were waylaid. “Khan's father Kamaluddin Khan (63), his brother Miraj and cousin   were waiting near gate 6 at the court when three men posing as crime branch cops said they want to question them and forced them into a waiting car,“ said a cop. They took the Freeway to Ghatkopar, assaul ting the three men on the way.
 
 Kamaluddin said they also to ok away Rs 1 lakh he had with him for cash bail. To make it look as if they were cops, they drove the car straight into Ghatkopar police sta tion compound. Two kidnap pers got off the car and called some cops saying they were from crime branch and were from crime branch and were handing over three ab sconding accused.
 
 Ghatkopar cops were initially misled and took the trio into custody, only to learn later they were fooled. Khan filed a complaint against unidentified persons and gave poli ce the car number. “During investiga tions we learnt the car belonged to Obaid's brother and then understood the story .We arrested Kaif, who was one of the three kidnappers, and are looking for   who was driving the car,“ said a Colaba police official. Police will interrogate Kaif to know who hatched the conspiracy.
 
