TIRUVANNAMALAI: The education department has launched a drive to identify people who joined as teachers in government schools in   district of Tami Nadu by submitting forged documents.

 Chief education office of Tiruvannamalai district Jayakumar told TOI that the department would scrutinise the appointment of teachers since 2012 as several people had joined as teachers at government schools after producing forged documents and appointment orders.
 
 “We will filter the applications based on the date of joining. We will conduct a thorough check of the documents, appointment orders, transfer orders and other documents of the candidates who joined duty since 2012. If we find someone joined for duty by producing fake documents, we will file a case against the individual and also take departmental action against him or her. We will also take necessary steps to recover the salary he or she had been receiving,” said the CEO.
 
 The department has taken the measure after identifying three people who joined as teachers in government schools three years ago by producing fake appointment orders. A few of the government school teachers were involved in the  , said education department officials.
 
 In the last two days, the department suspended two teachers, including a head master (in-charge), of the government schools under the provisions of the   Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules for indulging in malpractices and creating fake documents like appointment and transfer orders.
 
 The CEO issued the suspension order to Sakthivel, head master (in-charge) of the Government High School in Avaniyapuram, and A Sakkarai, a Tamil teacher of GHS in Mathalampadi, on Thursday and Friday respectively.
 
 The CEO had received four complaints in writing against Sakkarai. The complainants, including two government school teachers from Villupuram and the Nilgris districts, stated that Sakkarai had promised them to get transfer to the vacant posts in Tiruvannamalai district. The department has also received complaints from Pandu of Melpallur and Ravishankar of Arni stating that Sakkarai had demanded and received bribe of several lakhs of rupees to get them appointment orders as teachers in government schools.
 
 Sakkarai made   for A Maheswari to help her join as a history teacher at GHS in Vandavasi. She along with her brother was arrested by the Vandavasi South Police on Friday for producing the bogus appointment order. During inquiries, she revealed that she had given Rs 3.5 lakh to Sakkarai for the job.
 
 Sources in the education department said Sakthivel had forged transfer order and appointment order. He had also forged the signature of the CEO to help his wife Muthulakshmi to join as teacher in government school. 
 
 “Sakthivel also forged a document to create a record that there was a vacancy in Avaniyapuram school, where he was holding the HM (in-charge) post. Subsequently, he made a fake appointment order for his wife Muthulakshmi to the join as teacher in the school. He also forged my signature on fake a letter that was sent to the treasury, which would credit the salary to the teachers,” said the CEO.
 
 Similarly, Sakthivel forged documents to help his sister-in-law, C Punithavalli, to join as a history teacher at the Government High School in Vadamanapakkam.
 
 S Vijayakumar had joined as an English teacher in GHS in Melmattai Vinnamangalam in the district. 
 
 “They have been receiving around Rs 25,000 as salary per month. We will take necessary steps to recover the salary and incentives that they had received since they joined duty by submitting fake documents,” the CEO said.
 
 
