Chandigarh: The Haryana government has set a target to install one lakh new solar water pumps in the state for irrigation purposes and 25,000 of such pumps would be installed during the next year. A decision in this regard was taken on Tuesday in a meeting of new and renewable energy department, held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.

 The press release issued on Tuesday said, sanction has also been accorded for the installation of roof-top solar power plants on the buildings of 110 community health centres and equal number of primary health centres. The department would initially install 25,000 solar water pumps and gradually increased this number to one lakh.
 
 The department had requested the Union ministry of new and renewable energy for allocation of 20,000   to the state for the year 2017-18. In the first phase during the year 2016-17, as many as 750 solar water pumps of capacity 2 Horsepower (HP) surface and submersible and 5HP (submersible) were to be installed in the Shalawas block of district Jhajjar and in other 23 safe blocks in terms of ground water exploitation in other districts.
 
 The work order for 750 pumps has already been issued by the districts concerned for the first phase and these pumps have been received at sites out of which 700 pumps have already been installed and commissioned whereas remaining are under installation. During the second phase to be implemented in the year 2017-18, 2,300 systems of 2HP to 10HP capacity would be installed for which e-tenders have already been invited.
 
 The Union minister of new and renewable energy, in a review meeting held recently, has considered Haryana as the leading states in the solar rooftop programme. The minister said he would soon convene a meeting of concerned departments regarding the setting up of solar park with 500 MW capacity in the state. The solar park is to be developed by the SUN Haryana, a joint venture of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructural Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL).
 
 It was said in the meeting that survey of all government buildings in the state had been completed for the installation of rooftop solar plants so as to meet their everyday power requirements.
 
 
