JAIPUR: A 28-year-old woman, who gave birth to a baby in city's  , was rushed to   (SMS) Hospital after diagnosed with  .

 The incident has highlighted the need of vaccinating pregnant women against swine flu. A study conducted in   suggests that 15 of total female patients were pregnant when they were brought to SMS Hospital for treatment of swine flu.
 
 She was brought to the SMS hospital three days ago.The doctors have admitted her to ICU. “Her lungs are damaged and she is critical.We have put her on ventilator support,“ said Dr CL Nawal, senior professor (general medicine), SMS Hospital.
 
 Dr Nawal said that it has affected her kidney and liver functions too.
 
 Pregnant patients and those in puerperal period (period after giving birth to a baby) are more severely affected during influenza outbreaks. In the recent past, fi ve such patients were admitted to SMS Hospital.
 
 “A study of an influenza A (H1N1) pdm09 outbreak in pregnant women in Rajasthan, India,“ was published in International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics which highlighted the increased morbidity and mortality that occurs in patients who are pregnant, or have recently been pregnant, who are affected by influenza A (H1N1).
 
 The study was authored by Dr Abhishek Agrawal, Dr Sujata Agarwal, Dr Vinay Kumar, Dr CL Nawal, Dr Pradeep Mital, Dr Radheyshyam Chejara of Depart ment of Medicine, SMS Medical College and Hospital, Jaipur, India. Dr Nawal, one of the co-authors said, “Among the 291 female patients, who were admitted to the hospital there were 40 pregnant while four others were in the puerperal period.“
 
 The health department has kept pregnant women under category B, which is a high risk group. “If a pregnant woman is suffering from influenza like illness, we immediately provide her swine flu treatment without laboratory confirmation,“ a health department official said.
 
 
 
 
 Doctors claimed Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) is the last hope of swine flu patients. Recently, a private hospital doctors saved life of a 32-year-old pregnant woman who was admitted with active swine flu infection. “She could not maintain adequate oxygen levels inspite of maximal ventilator support. She was transferred to our hospital with severe hypoxia and multi-organ dysfunction,“ said Dr Ajit Bana, an expert in Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO).He said that she was put on ECMO within two hours of presentation and supported for 11 days during which her lungs and other organ systems improved. She was successfully weaned off ECMO support and later from Ventilatory support.
 
