Margao: On the first day of training itself, it was clear what   chief coach   wants from his team.
 Short passing and ball possession was what the Spaniard insisted all along as the Indian and foreign signings took to the field for the first time at the Chowgule College ground in Margao on Monday.
  Lobera took over the reins this season from Brazilian legend  , who coached the side for the first three seasons. Under Zico, FC Goa finished runners-up in the second year, losing 2-3 against Chennaiyin FC at home. The third and last season, though, was a disaster as FC Goa finished at the bottom of the table.
  This season, there is a new coach and a new philosophy. The bar has been set high too; only winning the title matters.
  “I am very happy with the team. It was a good training session. I think the attitude of the players is very good and professional. I think we can work more and improve slowly. But it is important to establish a bond and I think the pre-season in   is good for us with the level of the opponent teams,” said Lobera.
  The team will travel to Spain on October 6 and return to Goa to continue with their pre-season training on October 27.
  The 27-member squad, which will include four development team players will travel to Murcia and play five friendlies at the La Manga Club. FC Goa have friendlies lined up against the likes of FC Cartagena, UCAM Murcia CF, Mar Menor FC, Lorca FC, Almeria FC and former   side Real Murcia before returning to Goa.
  Lobera was part of the back room staff of Spanish giants FC Barcelona during the tenure of late Tito Vilanova and wants to implement a similar style here in Goa. He has carefully handpicked the players who can help him, as is evident with the signings of six Spanish players.
  “It was the first day with Indian players but I know a lot of them and have watched their videos and matches. To prepare the draft it is necessary to know the players. I am very happy with the level. It is now important to know about them personally as well as professionally,” said Lobera.
  There are injury concerns as defender Amey Ranawade has a muscle strain while Anthony D’Souza is facing a niggle on the same ankle which he had fractured during the India camp two years ago.
  FC Goa start their campaign on November 19 away against Chennaiyin FC. They then travel to face Mumbai City FC on November 25 and return to Goa for their first home game against new entrants Bengaluru FC on November 30.
