KOCHI: The   panchayat budget presented on Wednesday gives push for production, road development and   sector. As per the budget which puts the revenue and expenditure at Rs 204.72 crore and Rs 203.96 crore respectively, Rs 60 crore has been earmarked for elevating schools in the district to international standards while development of rural roads gets Rs 47.85 crore. The budget also envisages a surplus of Rs 75 lakh.

 The total allocation for education sector stands at Rs 74.54 crore while health sector's allocation is Rs 18.76 crore. A total of Rs 12.11crore has been earmarked for social welfare projects while projects for SCST development get Rs 15.67 crore. Allocation for development sector is Rs 22.57 crore and projects for women's development get Rs 4.20 crore. Projects for waste treatment have been given a total of Rs 11.48 crore.
 
 District panchayat vice president   who presented the budget said that the focus would be on production sector. “It is using the funds from the state government, we plan to elevate the schools in to international standards. The government has announced making one school in each constituency a model school.For the purpose, the government would give Rs 5 crore through the MLAs concerned,“   said. “Construction of roads will be using funds from the maintenance grant,“ he said.
 
 Roads, canals, culverts and bridges in the district, especially in rural areas, will be renovated using the funds the maintenance grant. There are projects for giving saplings of coconut trees for each households in the district. Financial sup port will be provided for rearing cattle so as to boost meat production. Form renovation of   district hospital, Rs 3 crore has been earmarked.
 
 Foray into drinking water market:
 
 District panchayat is all set to enter the bottled drinking water market. A project for starting a plant where water would be treated and bottled has been announced in the budget on Wednesday.
 
 The budget allocates Rs 45 lakh for the project which is to come up in the orchard owned by the district panchayat an island off Periyar near Aluva. The one littre drinking water will be priced at Rs 12 and Rs 2 will be given back if the consumer gives back the bottle.
 
