GOGHAT, WEST BENGAL: Six members of an apolitical forum, including   senior leader and former Kolkata mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, were allegedly heckled and manhandled at Ulhaspur in Hoogly district, near here today by locals.

 The members of Save Democracy Forum, created by former Supreme Court Judge Ashok Kumar Ganguly, had reached here this morning to speak to the owners of a 17-acre waterbody to allow it to be filled up for the proposed Tarakeswar-Bishnupur rail line.
 
 When the Forum's car reached the area about 40 persons in the presence of police blocked the road protesting against their visit.
 
 As the Forum members tried to speak to the protestors, they allegedly pushed Bhattacharya and snatched away his mobile. They also allegedly called him a murderer and said that CPM men were back to disturb peace that had returned to the area after the defeat of the Left Front. "We will not allow CPM men to enter the area," they shouted.
 
 The policemen present at the spot persuaded Bhattacharya to go to Arambagh where he lodged a complaint at the office of the sub-divisional police office.
 
 "Am I a murderer? The TMC goons openly abused, beat up and manhandled us before the police and later threatened to kill us. I have never faced such a situation in my life, not even in 1972," Bhattacharya said.
 
 The   MLA   said the protest was held by the villagers whose family members were killed during the CPM tenure.
 
 "We were not involved in the incident," he said echoing Hoogly district TMC leader and state Agri-marketing minister Tapan Dasgupta that no one from the party had been involved in it.
 
 "CPM men came here in the garb of Save Democracy Forum," Mazumdar claimed.
 
 He said, 187 owners of the 268 received compensation cheques. "We will not acquire the water bodies without everybody's consent."
 
 A local Lakshmikanta Ray claimed that most of the land owners didn't receive cheques and the block development officer gave "false statistics."
 
 Superintendent of police Sukesh Jain said he had received Bhattacharya's complaint and investigation into the incident has already started. Bhattacharya is being interrogated by the police. 
 
 Governor KN Tripathi was apprised of the incident by WBPCC President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who met him during the day.
 
