THANE: The toxic   released due to the burning of illegally dumped   at   and its neighbouring areas has triggered a scare for thousands of families residing in the area as they have been complaining of uneasiness, burning sensation in the eyes and nauseating smell. This problem has been going on since the last few days.

 Many   have also complained of breathlessness. Residents have alleged that some miscreants have been reportedly burning garbage at isolated areas along the city fringes, leading to smoke enveloping the entire township, especially at night. 
 
 This has triggered a lot of panic among locals, especially after a few incidents of illegal burning of trash had left several residents ill in 2015 as well.
 
 “We have been noticing the dense smoke in the air at night which could possibly be due to some burning of trash. The air gets cloudy by late evening and at times it is even difficult to drive down this stretch. Political parties that had promised to end the garbage menace, if voted to power, are now silent,” said Adesh Bhagat, a resident of Diva. 
 
 A resident of Khardi which is close to the dumping yard said that a few residents have complained of irritation in the eyes and itchy skin. The situation is more or less the same all through the year as the TMC dumps trash at the isolated spots in Khardi daily, residents claimed. 
 
 A civic official from the disaster management cell who attended the call said that some miscreants discreetly   the garbage in the town and must have set it ablaze. “There is nothing to worry about. The situation should ease once the administration starts implementing the scientific disposal of garbage at Daighar yard,” said a civic officer. 
 
 Meanwhile, this is the third incident in Diva since the last 15 months. A chemical leak was reported at one of the dumping grounds in December 2015. This had forced residents to flee their homes and take shelter in adjoining areas as they had feared it was a gas leak. It was later found that some miscreants had illegally emptied chemicals in a huge pit dug near the TMC dumping ground in Davle village that caused a reaction and led to a fire with thick smoke. 
 
 
