KOLKATA: With less than a week to go for Holi, tipplers in the city bracing for a dry run might just be able to build up hope. After a month-long tug-of-war between the state government and   distributors, it seems both parties are ready to soften their stance and start a dialogue.

 Distributors and retailers of IMFL had been protesting against the state government’s decision to take up the wholesale trade of IMFL ( ) and country spirits from April through the newly formed  . The primary complaint was that this transition period had led to a shortage of liquor ahead of Holi, when demand and consumption shoot up.
 
 The state liquor distributors’ body — West Bengal Foreign Liquor Manufacturers, Wholesalers and Bonders Association — has sought one year to migrate to the state government-led distribution of IMFL. While this is the first indication of the association showing signs of shifting from its earlier rigid stance of opposing the government’s move outright, the state government, too, on its part, has called a meeting with IMFL distributors and retailers on Tuesday to formulate a roadmap.
 
 A source close to the development indicated the state government is trying to roll out the functioning of the corporation in a systematic manner. “The state will roll out an IT-enabled system and has identified land for a warehouse. It is also engaged in recruiting a workforce. It looks like it will take at least two months to complete the entire process,” the source added. 
 
 Several liquor merchants also claimed that after a healthy growth in November, December and January, the liquor consumption dipped in February because of the unavailability of all brands at the retail level. Excise officials, however, dismissed this claim. “During the Holi week also, there will be healthy sales. In fact, sales of IMFL pick up in the last 72 hours ahead of Holi,” said an excise official. 
 
 The vice-president of the state liquor distributors’ body Vikram Soni, said the state government should consider extending the time frame for the transition to the state-led distribution system by a year. “If the state wants to take over the distribution business, they can do it but we should get some time,” he said.
 
 Soni pointed out that the distributors had over Rs 400 crore pending with retailers. “A lot of money is at stake now. The distributors had no other option but to reduce the credit given to retailers. Because once the state takes over the trade, it would be difficult to realise the pending credit. The due was even more two months back. We have realised some of it from retailers,” he added.
 
 A leading IMFL retailer explained they could not buy new stocks because they were cash-strapped. “Earlier, we used to get 30-40 days’ credit from distributors. But now, we are getting only 6-7 days’ credit. So, it is not possible for us now to keep all brands,” he said. 
 
 There are about 10 manufacturing units engaged in production of IMFL in the state. There are 109 licenced private distributors which supply to retailers. According to the association, the distributors engage about 5,000 people directly and about 12,000 people indirectly. The wholesalers argued that they are working on a meagre gross margin of 2% and retailers on 5%. “The government has to create infrastructure, personnel costs of a corporation and offer retailers a minimum 9% margin, since retailers have to bear the transportation costs as well as the expenses of loading/unloading and in-transit breakages, which is being borne by wholesalers,” a wholesaler added.
 
 
