MUMBAI: If you happen to be on a brief visit to   as   were last week, passing time in the totalitarian state can be quite a task.  , the goalkeeper of the Indian club, however, quite literally found a colourful way of doing so.

 In a tweet posted on his handle, @GurpreetGK, on Monday, the 25-year-old revealed just what he had been up to in Pyongyang outside of helping Bengaluru complete a 3-0 aggregate victory over April 25 in the   inter-zonal semifinals.
 
 The tweet had an attachment that stood out, a collage of four iconic cartoon characters —   and  ,  , The Joker and Scooby-Doo — each sketched by Sandhu to near perfection.
 
 The caption above his work read: “I always kept myself busy whilst my trip to North Korea with @bengalurufc , here’s what i ended up drawing #CartoonsAreLife”.
 
 
  
 
 Around nine hours after the tweet went public, it had already generated 400-odd likes with quite a few followers expressing their appreciation of Sandhu’s art. Perhaps his sketches would have garnered even more traction had they included the controversial North Korean leader. One person, however, who felt his work was too good to be true was Sandhu’s father.
 
 One person, however, who felt the sketches were too good to be true was Sandhu’s father. “My Dad didn’t believe me. He thought they were colour-filled,” Sandhu, the first Indian footballer to play in the Europa League, told TOI.
 
 “I used to draw when I was a kid. My mom would buy pencil boxes that had different cartoon characters on them and I would draw them. Basically it’s how I tried to kill time in North Korea,” he added.
 
 With no internet access just one among several restrictions in the Kim Jong-un-led nation whose nuclear weapons programme has had the world edgy in recent times, Sandhu ensured he was well-prepared for the trip.
 
 “I downloaded the cartoon pictures before leaving as I knew there’d be no net access. This is something I have only just returned to doing since joining Bengaluru,” he said, revealing it took him ‘a good two to three hours’ to complete the drawings.
 
 While it isn’t uncommon to watch Sandhu pull off remarkable saves, be it for club or the national team, he can clearly work magic with his hands off the pitch as well.
 
 
