CHENNAI: Chief minister O   is using the skills and talents of senior leaders and former MGR associates to 
  . While former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and AIADMK general secretary 
  sidelined them,   deployed them to reach out to MLAs through family members, look at Constitutional and legal issues and draft a game plan that would discredit the   camp.

 The 
  among cadres and people is most persuasive offering of these leaders. Their target is to get at least 25 MLAs to their side and avert the possibility of Sasikala faction being able to prove majority on the floor of the assembly. They point out that a delayed verdict in the disproportionate assets case against Sasikala would be in their favour, besides, of course, her conviction.
 
 School education minister 
  , the first cabinet minister to break ranks and team up with OPS, has been assigned to persuade high-profile MLAs and allies to cross over. He made a bid to convince Mylapore MLA and former DGP R Nataraj and garner the support of AIADMK ally and Nagapattinam MLA Thaminun Ansari of Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi for a floor test.
 
 Former AIADMK presidium chairman E Madhusoodanan, a key member of the OPS task force, has been offering advice. Prominently visible, the old horse, who aided M G Ramachandran in founding AIADMK, has been providing valuable tips to OPS in his interactions with reporters and people and helping to craft his image. “OPS is a gentleman. People are pouring out to meet him. MGR had people behind him when he broke away from DMK and in 1987 when MGR passed away, Jayalalithaa had the support of cadres. 
  ,” Madhusoodanan told TOI.
 
 Putting their talents to good use and drawing them into the war against Sasikala, OPS despatched Rajya Sabha member V Maitreyan to meet 
  . “We are confident of getting support of MLAs because the will of the people will prevail and they are with OPS,” said Maitreyan. With the battle for supremacy marked by rapid developments and high drama, the OPS camp is fighting to keep ahead.
 
 AIADMK spokesman and former minister C Ponnaiyan said it was a collective contribution of several senior leaders backing OPS, with the prime task being the build-up of support for OPS among MLAs. “How to get them over, how to approach courts and how to approach Governor are some of the important tasks being apportioned,” said Ponnaiyan. The wide reach that former electricity minister Natham R Vishwanthan has across the state is valuable, he said.
 
 “We are talking to AIADMK office-bearers at the district level, panchayat union level and corporation and municipality level and telling them about the cunning manoeuvres of the self-serving Mannargudi group,” said Ponnaiyan.
 
 
