BENGALURU: How can a   resurgence happen when the Narendra Modi-led   is aggressively expanding its dominance across the country? While this question has been nagging Congress strategists ever since BJP-ruled states' population tally touched 61.1% three months ago a section of the country's political thinkers and economists on Sunday came up with a solution: Revisit the Ambedkar model of development.

 Economic empowerment of Dalits and marginalized classes as envisaged by Ambedkar is the way forward and the Congress should work on it before fascism is spread in the country in the name of `Hindu Rashtra', political analysts and economists said.
 
 Political economist and civil rights activist G Haragopal said: “The Congress should look at the growing inequalities in income; it is a matter of concern. India's richest 1% holds about 58% of the country's wealth and this phenomenon has only increased under the Modi regime. The Con gress should start talking about minimizing inequalities in income as wealth should sub-serve the common good.“
 
 Haragopal pointed out how the BJP government has become the favourite of global capitalists. He said the spread of fascism was turning out to be a threat to the Indian Constitution. “The country will reach a critical point in 2019 (when parliamentary polls are scheduled) and we have to be cautious. The minorities are suffering from insecurity and the Congress has a responsibility to protect the Constitution.“
 
 Joining him, economist Prabhat Patnaik said: “With neo-liberalism reaching a dead-end under the Modi regime, a counter-revolution is staring at us. A new vision of India is required and it is important to think of giving economic rights to the people along with political rights.“
 
 Patnaik outlined the economic rights as: right to food, right to employment, right to free healthcare, right to qual ity education and right to free pension for elderly and the disabled. The total cost for providing these rights will be not more than 10% of the Gross Domestic Product, he said, adding: “Through this, we can carry forward the notion of development as envisioned by Ambedkar.“
 
 Political analyst and author Anand Teltumbde said while wealth in the hands of the country's richest 1% had grown from 53% to 58% after Modi took over and this development is a pointer to the fact that Dalits are at the receiving end. “The ruling classes have been fooling all and there is massive inequality in the country . The   syndrome keeps mocking at the common man and social activists have no space as they are imprisoned or attacked. The concepts of equality , liberty and fratern i t y h ave r e m a i n e d mere rhetoric and the poor continue to suffer.“
 
 Teltumbde said the Congress has to transform itself with the focus on Ambedkar and fight the Hindutva juggernaut to stop de jure fascism from becoming a reality in the country. 
 
