In the past two weeks, there has been a wave of support in favour of actor  , accused in the actress assault case. 

 Among those who have come forward to extend support to the actor who is in custody are former MP and lawyer  , MLA Ganesh Kumar and actor  . There was also a steady stream of visitors to the Aluva Sub Jail on Onam day. While most of these VIPs have asserted their right to express their opinion, they have attracted flak for taking a partisan approach. The victim is also from the film fraternity, so why did they not call on her or express support, many asked. At the forefront was the Women’s Collective in Cinema (WCC) which saw a clear case of double standards. So, is it unethical to support an accused, and if yes, why? 
 
  There is nothing theoretically wrong in supporting Dileep, says  , member of the WCC. But by doing so, you are committing a wrong towards the victim morally, she says. “Suppose in your own family, a girl is attacked and a boy is believed to be the aggressor. If you express your sympathies with the boy and ignore the girl, what does it mean, in effect?”
  
  
  Sajitha asserts that the problem arises not when someone supports the accused as a friend, but when an MLA or an MP does it. “This MLA went on record recently that if anyone has received Dileep’s favours, that person should stand by him. Have you ever heard anything more preposterous? An accused is an accused, until proven innocent. We are only concerned about the victim. We request everyone to stand by her. We don’t know who the culprit is, that is up to the court and police to identify. We just want justice, and the person who is the perpetrator is irrelevant to us. The person has now become relevant because there seems to be a lot of people who will be unhappy if he is convicted. We will neither be happy or unhappy if Dileep is caught, for we are not his friends and owe nothing to him.”
 
  Sajitha pooh poohs the suggestion that WCC has some enmity with Dileep. “We have nothing personal against him.  , who was in the news for allegedly ‘provoking’ Sebastian Paul to make his statements supporting Dileep, however, has a different take on the issue. “They have every right to support their friend. And I have no issues with it, because from my years of experience dealing with such cases, I have found that nobody ever comes forward to support a woman. Not the institutions like our laws and the government, nor the society at large. The people who visited Dileep in jail are all part of that patriarchal structure, including Sebastian Paul. So I am not at all surprised and have no illusions about it.”
  
  
  At the same time, are those who are supposedly supporting Dileep honest in their stance, she wants to know. “These are the same people who ousted Dileep from all their organisations in a day’s time. The correct procedure would have been to suspend him and order an enquiry. Now they say they always knew Dileep was innocent. Why did they chuck him then, instead of suspending him? I find this ‘pilgrimage’ to the jail weak-hearted. It’s like you are supporting Dileep, but not taking any strong position for him. None of these people have made an official statement to the CM or the police that he is innocent, that they have no faith in the police. Hence I call their journey a pilgrimage, because you are essentially going there to wash away your guilt, for not supporting him in reality.”
 
 
