PATNA: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed a corruption case against former railway minister   and others and raided 12 locations associated with him and the other accused.

 The case relates to Lalu allegedly granting illegal favours to a private hotel company through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation ( ), when he was railway minister from 2004 to 2009.
 
 Also named in the CBI case are Lalu's wife  , his son Tejashwi , PK Goyal, a former managing director of IRCTC, and Sarla Gupta, the wife of one of Lalu's close aides Prem Chand Gupta, who is a Rashtriya Janata Dal Rajya Sabha MP.
  
 The CBI raided properties associated with the accused in 12 locations, including in New Delhi, Gurugram,  , Ranchi and Puri. It also raided properties belonging to Vijay and Vinay Kocchar, directors of Sujata Hotels Private Limited, the company Lalu allegedly granted illegal favours to.
 
 Sources said the CBI began the raid at 6 am when they arrived at Lalu's 10 Circular Road residence in Patna, along with a big posse of police.
 
  
  
 
 
 Troubles are just mounting for Lalu, who is already a convict in a fodder scam case, and is presently out on bail.
  
 In another blow to Lalu, the Supreme Court in May ordered separate trials in different fodder scam cases against him.
 
 The Prasad family was also rocked by BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi 's accusations that they amassed 'benami' properties through misuse of power. The Income Tax Department then grilled Lalu's daughter Misa Bharti and her husband Shailesh Kumar in connection with this last month.
 
 A few days ago, Modi submitted a petition to the election commission (EC) asking that Prasad's older son and Bihar health minister Tej Pratap be disqualified for allegedly concealing information in an affidavit to it before the 2015 Bihar assembly election. Separately, a Public Interest Litigation was also filed in the Patna high court seeking a directive to the EC to disqualify not just Tej Pratap but also Tejashwi, Lalu's other son.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
