LUCKNOW: Close to 800 people including patients, attendants, doctors and medical support staff had a narrow escape when a fire broke out at the   of   (KGMU) here on Saturday evening. Inconvenience was caused to patients, who were undergoing treatment in state’s only functional Trauma Centre, and their attendants .

 Over 250 patients had to be evacuated to other hospital blocks of KGMU — Centenary Hospital, Lari Cardiology and Gandhi Ward, some of which were across the road. Some patients were referred to Balrampur, Civil and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospitals too. KGMU chief medical superintendent Prof SN Shankhwar claimed that no life was lost and services in the casualty medical ward were restored around midnight. 
 
 Fire tenders from all over the city were engaged to douse the fire and the rescue operation went on for over three hours. Official statement from KGMU stated that the incident took place around 7 pm when a security staff saw flames on the second floor. 
 
 Hospital staff on duty rushed to the spot and found that the point of origin was located inside the disaster management ward which remains reserved for medical emergencies and hospital staff training. 
 
 It spread to nearby medical store where several mattresses were stored besides other hospital supplies. Eyewitnesses claimed that smoke started spreading when the fire entered the store area.
 
 Panic spread in the orthopaedic and medicine wards located on the same floor.
 
 A few minutes later, smoke emanating from the second floor and engulfed ground, first and fourth floors in the Trauma Center Building.
 
 “While the ground floor housed over 50 patients undergoing treatment in the casualty and emergency medicine wards, 40 patients were being managed in the general surgery and neuro surgery post-operative wards on the first floor. Close to 70 patients were stuck on the second floor in the orthopaedic and medicine wards," a doctor on duty told TOI.
 
 There were just 20 patients and several attendants on the fourth floor which houses the trauma ventilator unit. Majority of the patients admitted to respiratory and medical ICUs on the fifth floor were safe. Only a few children were shifted to the paediatric ICU.
 
 When the fire intensified, power supply to the building was snapped so that the patients on ground, first and second floors may be evacuated. Panic-stricken patients and attendants on the ground and first floor began running out of the building. Many attendants helped other patients get out of the building by pulling them on stretchers as ambulances fell short.
 
 Some onlooker and locals joined administra tion in the rescue work but eyewitnesses claimed that pa tients were literally dumped into units which were already overflowing with patients.
 
 Parents of three day old baby Mithlesh were seen crying for help at the petrol pump on KGMU crossing.
 
