NOIDA: Nearly a month after the   of a 28-year-old   in a   in Salarpur village in Noida, her   and his accomplice were arrested for the murder. The   have been identified as Kanpur residents Ranjeet Kumar (38) and Ashish (21).

  Ranjeet shot dead his estranged lover Kanchan (28) and fled on a motorcycle driven by Ashish. The killing took place on August 16. To gain access to Kanchan’s flat, Ranjeet had worn a salwar-kameez and also covered his face with a stole, pretending to be a woman.
 
 “Kanchan, an original resident of Raebareli, was married but had separated from her husband. Kanchan’s brother Vishnu Pratap was arrested in a petty crime and sent to jail three years ago. He met Ranjeet in judicial custody and they became friends,” said SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh.
 
 Ranjeet later started visiting his house, and came in contact with Kanchan. The two got into a live-in relationship and started living together in Kanpur, where he worked as a cable operator. However, Kanchan left Ranjeet last year, and befriended another person named Kunal, also a resident of Kanpur.
 
 Kunal and Kanchan shifted to a rented flat in Salarpur, Noida, three months ago. Ranjeet pressured Kanchan to return to him, but she ignored him.
 
 On August 16, Ranjeet and his friend Ashish reached Kanchan’s flat when Kunal was away at work. While Ashish waited outside on a Bajaj Avenger bike, Ranjeet, dressed as a woman, managed to enter the flat and shot Kanchan in the neck with a country-made gun. The duo then fled. A seriously injured Kanchan was rushed to Yatharth Hospital in Sector 110, where she was declared brought dead.
 
 Later that day, Kunal filed a complaint at Sector 39 police station, on the basis of which an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. A police officer said they investigated the matter and found that the woman’s estranged lover Ranjeet was behind the murder. “We put him on surveillance and arrested him with an accomplice from Salarpur village on Saturday night,” the officer said. On questioning, the accused admitted to have murdered Kanchan.
 
 The police have recovered the motorcycle and gun used in the crime. 
 
 “The two accused will be produced in court on Monday,” the officer said.
 
 
