NAGPUR: Children suffering from   and sickle cell could be cured if parents paid attention to symptoms of the disease early and immediately took them to a doctor for treatment, said Dr Vikram Mathews, professor at  , Vellore. 

 Delivering the keynote address at a seminar for patients of these diseases, organized by the Nagpur branch of   and thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre at a city hotel of Sunday, Dr Mathews said it was important that parents understood the medical condition of children better as neglecting them could prove dangerous. The first step to tackle thalassaemia and sickle cell is to create awareness among people and remove the stigma attached to these diseases. It would be easier if the disease is detected earlier so that bone marrow transplantation could be done at a young age when the chances of cure are bright, he added. 
 
 Dr Vinky Rughwani, president of thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre, Nagpur, said, "The government is serious about tackling these diseases and has introduced many schemes for patients. Twenty-seven patients received 3 lakh each from the government for surgery and treatment. However, availability of medicines is a problem as supply at the government hospitals is erratic due to which patients suffer. If the government ensured regular supply of medicines, the patients will not face problems, he added. 
 
  The seminar was addressed by doctors Dipti Jain and Harsh Warbhe. Various important parameters such as blood transfusion and iron chelation were touched upon by the speakers. They also said advances in medical science could work wonders if patients suffering from thalassaemia and sickle cell report to a doctor early and take medicines regularly for which parents should always be alert. These diseases can assume alarming proportions if people did not pay heed to medical advise, the doctors said. 
 
 Present on the occasion were guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, MLA Dr Milind Mane, MLC Girish Vyas, Prashant Rathi and president of Nagpur chapter of IMA Vaishali Khandait. Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme was the chief guest. 
 
 Sonal Thakkar, mother of a thalassaemia patient said, "I know the struggle and am aware of how expensive the treatment is. However, thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre continues to support and give me strength." 
 
  (Reporting by Mayank Gurnani) 
 
