NEW DELHI: In 2014 when   Gupta’s 19-year-old daughter applied for a passport, her application was not accepted as it did not have her father’s name. A working professional, Gupta was not only emotionally disturbed but also surprised to find that the system did not recognise the identity of a single parent. Shaken by the incident, she decided to challenge the norm. Subsequently, she raised the matter through a petition on change.org and wrote to the central government. An ordinary citizen’s voice and the response to her petition last year led to reforms in passport norms.

 Gupta’s daughter will now apply for re-issuance of the passport by putting her mother’s name in the document. Her mother’s role and effort was hailed by the women and child development (WCD) ministry recently as she and nine other women were felicitated as “agents of change”. 
 
 “It hurts you terribly when your father has abandoned you and still, you are forced to write his name,” Gupta told TOI. She said she never anticipated that her daughter, who is an adult applicant, would have to face this. “After this incident, I decided to start a petition on change.org to garner support. I also wrote to minister of external affairs  ,” she added. 
 
 Her efforts led to the formation of a three-member inter-ministerial committee with representatives from the external affairs and WCD ministries. This led to amendments in the guidelines and now name of either parent can be provided in the passport form. Besides, a person does not need to submit her or his marriage or divorce certificates.
 
 The move has helped empower other single parents. After the amendments were made, another petitioner, Juveria Patni, wrote in January this year, “After long wait, hassle and anticipation, at last I get the opportunity to use these 6 words, ‘I finally received my son’s passport!’ This journey was truly a tough one nonetheless the perk at the end of this road is surely thrilling.” 
 
 These “agents of change” are fighting very significant battles in their regular lives. They seek to bridge the   gap and fight biases in society.
 
 A single parent struggling to bring up her two children, Monika works as a helper at a clinic. She comes from Rani Bagh in Delhi. Her application for SC certificates for her children, aged nine and seven, was rejected as the SDM office insisted on father’s SC/ST certificate. 
 
 She has an SC certificate, which was not considered by the authorities. Shocked and angry, she wrote to the minister of social justice about her plight last year. Now, Monika is only hoping that a solution is found to this concern so that her children are able to get their due. The WCD ministry is now planning to take this up with the ministry of social justice. 
 
 A banker by profession,   fought her way through a turbulent marriage and secured maintenance for her child’s security. “The maintenance given to a woman and the child should be made tax-free as it is unfair to add this to the income of the woman,” she asserted. Her questions got the finance ministry thinking towards more clarity on tax laws on the matter.
 
 Sudipa Bose co-owns a security firm with her husband in Noida. She had a harrowing experience in a private cab in March—the driver went off route and behaved suspiciously, forcing her to jump off the the vehicle when it slowed down on a road in Delhi. Her story and her vociferous appeals for tightening the safety and security norms for cabs on social media caught the attention of the WCD ministry, which has been pursuing the matter with the ministry of road transport and highways.
 
 Part of this group of 10 women, Subarna Ghosh, raised concerns over the alarming rise in caesarean (C-section) surgeries, particularly in private hospitals. She demanded through her petition accountability and transparency in institutional deliveries. Following this, women and child development minister   wrote to health minister J P Nadda to make it mandatory for hospitals to publicly display the number of C-section surgeries and normal deliveries carried out.
 
 Ghosh wears many hats as a freelance journalist, housewife, PhD scholar and an activist creating awareness through “Birth India”, a network of women based in Mumbai.
 
 
