Bengaluru: After spearheading IT industry body Nasscom’s startup programme for nearly four years,   is moving away from it to take on the leading role at one of India’s earliest entrepreneur networks, The Indus Entrepreneurs ( ) Bangalore.

 Gururaj, who has had successful stints as an entrepreneur, both in the US and India, is credited with having given   a fresh and younger face by intensely energizing its startup acceleration and lobbying programme. He did it to an extent that it almost overshadowed Nasscom’s traditional IT services platform.
 
 Gururaj moves to TiE at a time when Bengaluru is flooded with entrepreneur programmes, incubators and accelerators. TiE is a global body with 60 chapters in 17 countries and was started in the US by Indian-origin entrepreneurs to help other entrepreneurs in their community. In India, it started with the Bengaluru chapter in 2000. It was prominent in its early years, but was crowded out by the many others, including Nasscom’s 10,000 Startups programme, iSpirt and corporate accelerators, that emerged in the past decade.
 
 Gururaj says TiE has to find a unique proposition for itself, and find ways to benefit from its global presence. Mentorship and acceleration programmes currently tend to focus on ventures that have found some traction, those that are in technology, and those that are looking to raise venture capital (VC) funds. Gururaj is looking to take TiE into a very different set of areas – early-stage ventures, non-tech startups, and ventures that can be self-sustaining, those that can do without venture capital. This, he thinks, could also help India broadbase the entrepreneurship ecosystem. “Even the government is looking at broader entrepreneurship – beyond tech,” he says.
 
 He says there are many niches where it is possible to build a sustainable venture without external funding and where an exit would eventually be viable. “The VC model is based on the home-run concept – zero or 100 (get no returns on the investment, or get a bumper investment),” he says, indicating that the model tends to ignore a host of ventures that could potentially build an innovative and reasonably-sized business.
 
 TiE also plans to focus on certain special interest groups – notably ventures in IoT (internet of things), education tech, and retail. “We will also focus on women entrepreneurs, for which we have co-opted into our board Anjana Vivek (founder of VentureBean Consulting), Sharda Balaji (founder of NovoJuris Legal) and Bharati Jacob (managing partner, Seedfund). We will also look at deep tech areas by working with universities,” Gururaj said.
 
 Gururaj replaces Naganand Doraswamy as president of TiE Bangalore. Among the new 12-member governing body is also Natarajan R, COO & CFO at RNT Capital Advisers, who will be secretary, and Parag Dhol, MD of Inventus Capital Partners, who will be treasurer.
 
