DARJEELING: Union minister and Darjeeling MP  , who had not visited his constituency once during the 104-day shutdown, will finally show up here for   on October 4, but may not find the going smooth enough.   and   (GTA) chairman Binay Tamang has asked the MP and state BJP president Dilip Ghosh to come clean on the Gorkhaland demand before they set foot in the Hills.

 “The BJP leaders have to clarify their stand on Gorkha land when they come to the Hills. Else, they may witness protests during their visit,“ Tamang said in a video message on Monday , stepping up the pressure on BJP .
 
 “The Darjeeling MP didn't utter a single word whi le people in the Hills suffered during the three-month-long stri ke. BJP president Amit Shah didn't even bother to visit Darjee ling during his Bengal tours. Even Ahluwalia went missing for all these days despite the fact that we supported BJP in 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha polls,“ Tamang said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, said in Kolkata on Monday that his party was never in favour of a separate Gorkhaland. “Our party doesn't endorse the Gorkhaland demand. Yet, there are some issues that can be resolved in a tripartite meeting. We always wanted tripartite talks but the state government isn't willing to go for it,“ Ghosh said.
 
 The rebel GJM faction wasn't alone in raking up the Gorkhaland demand once again. The GNLF , which was the first Hills party to seek talks with the state government, has also upped the ante ahead of the third round of bipartite talks on October 16. “In the two rounds of meeting with the state government, the issue of GTA was not raised. But, we now find that the discarded GTA has become functional. The state government in the two previous meetings had given signals that it wanted a permanent solution for the Hills. So we will see what happens in the third meeting, after which our party will take a call on future bipartite talks,“ said GNLF general secretary Mahendra Chhetri.
 
 The GNLF has decided to put pressure on the state government to take the initiative for tripartite talks on Gorkhaland. “There is no denying that we have been forced to go on the backfoot. Over three months of strike and eleven deaths yielded nothing. The agitation was not for Bimal Gurung or Binay Tamang or the GTA, but for the aspirations of the Gorkha people,“ Chhetri said.
 
 The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist (CPRM), on the other hand, accused the state government of engaging in a “conspiracy“ to divide the political parties of the Hills. “After three months of sacrifice, people are confused and desperate. Being a responsible political party , it is our duty to pacify the people and give them correct direction. For us and the people, GTA was never the issue. But, sadly the state government managed to break our unity and derail the movement,“ said CPRM spokesperson Govind Chhetri.
 
