ALWAR: Tension prevailed in   on Friday morning after several   stopped   and 40 other activists from paying tribute to Haryana dairy farmer   who was killed by cow vigilantes in April this year.

 The high-voltage drama unfolded in morning when Harsh Mandar and other activists of Karwan-e-Mohabbat were silently walking through the streets of Alwar when fringe outfits confronted them. The Hindu outfits said that members of Karwan-e-Mohabbat were attempting to disrupt the communal harmony by trying to pay tribute to 50-year-old dairy farmer who was beaten to death.
 
 After local administration and police sensed tension in the area, they stopped Harsh Mandar and other activists from heading to the spot where Khan was lynched. The officials said that activists did not have prior administrative permission.
 
 The cops were also called in from reserve line and deployed in the area to avert any untoward situation.
 
 After being prevented from heading to the spot, Mandar sat outside the office of Behror circle officer. Several officials reached the spot and tried to pacify both the groups. While Mandar and his 40 other activists were denied permission to go to the exact place where Khan was killed, they were allowed to go near Jaguwas Chowk area where other members of Pehlu Khan were beaten up by a mob of cow vigilantes.
 
 The high voltage drama lasted for over 30 minutes during which the stretch of Jaipur-Delhi National Highway 8 remained blocked for vehicular traffic.
 
 Harsh Mandar and other activists paid their tribute to Pehlu Khan and expressed their anguish over the manner which the entire investigation was carried out. “We were here just to pay our tribute to Pehlu Khan who was killed by the mob. His accused have been given clean chit by the police,” he said, adding that it was court ‘s discretion to decide if those six accused named in Khan’s dying statement were indeed innocent or not.
 
 The activists also deplored the slow pace of probe into Khan’s lynching and alleged that dying statement recorded by Khan was ignored by cops.
 
 
