COIMBATORE: Come May, shops providing   to their customers free of cost will have to shell out Rs 48,000 to the civic body. The rule is part of the Plastic Waste (management and handling) Rules, 2016, which gives power to the local body to penalise generators of waste.

 Assistant city health officer  , who is in charge of this initiative, said, “we are meeting several shop owners every day and urging them to charge for the plastic bags. We are also asking them to provide incentives such as discounts to those customers who bring their own bags. Those who do not charge for plastic bags will have to pay a charge to the civic body. We plan to enforce the plastic waste rules, 2016. But before we do that, we want to create awareness about the alternative solutions available,” he said.
 
 As per the rule, “all waste generators shall pay such user fee or charge as may be specified in the by-laws of the local bodies for plastic waste management such as waste collection or operation of the facility thereof, etc.,” said Santhosh Kumar, adding that they were currently penalising those who were using plastic bags below 20 microns. “But we will take it to the next level once the by-law is passed,” he said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said officials were drafting the by-laws. “We will enforce it from May after the council passes it. These charges are part of the waste collection and disposal that these shop owners will have to pay the corporation for doing the work. The central government has asked all the state governments to implement them and we are working towards it,” he said.
 
 Timple Luloo, Swachh Bharat ambassador and member of the ‘my shopping, my bag’ initiative of the Coimbatore corporation, said they planned to create awareness on alternatives before the ban on plastic bags was enforced. “We have been holding meetings with other NGOs in the city and Coimbatore corporation officials. We have decided to come up with a workshop on March 24 and 25 where manufacturers and innovators of alternative bags can set up stalls. We will invite all the vendors, associations, hoteliers and industrialists in the city to take part in the workshop. Even women self-help groups will be invited as it is an opportunity to become an entrepreneur,” said Timple.
 
 Nearly 70 stalls will be set up at  . So far, 30 companies have come forward from Pune, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Chennai to showcase alternative solutions to plastic bags.
 
 The corporation has started creating awareness in colleges and IT campuses. “As per our research even a medium sized departmental store spends nearly Rs 3-4 lakh a year purchasing plastic bags. So we will implement the surcharge on these stores that do not charge the customers. Enforcement of the law will be done only after providing alternative solutions to them,” said Santhosh Kumar. 
 
 Sujatha Murthy, manager, marketing, at   mall said 53 shops in the mall had already enforced the plastic ban and were providing only cloth or paper bags. The SPAAR departmental store also was providing an option of a jute bag for Rs 25, which was refundable on return of the bag. “We are trying to include customers and shop owners in this initiative to make the mall plastic free,” she said.
 
