PUNE: From academic year 2017-18, the admission process for 25% reserved seats under the   (RTE) will be conducted online between January and April.

 The process will begin on January 16 and go on till April 29, stated the schedule released by the school   department on Tuesday. Also, a   issued on Tuesday stated that the schools refusing to admit students under the RTE will be immediately de-recognised and further action will be taken against them as per the law.
 
 For a student seeking admission to standard I, he or she should have completed 5.4 years till September 30 to be eligible for the process. The schools need to give receipts to the parents after the admission of their wards is done, the resolution stated.
 
 Education officer will have to ensure that all schools under his jurisdiction are registered on the common website for RTE   within the stipulated time. The schools will also have to make sure that all the information regarding the RTE is displayed on the school notice board, which is kept at a place visible to all the parents. 
 
 The schools will have to decide entry level for them and upload the same on the admission website. The education officer has to ensure that enough grievance redressal counters are opened and information about allotment, selection or otherwise is given to the parents, it added.
 
 Another major change this time around is that the schools cannot reject admissions based on small mistakes like spelling errors in the names of students in the online application form. The schools will be collecting the required documents from the parents and use the same to fill up the forms while submitting the information to the education officer.
 
 Also, the schools cannot reject applications stating discrepancy in income certificates produced by the students. Block education officer will have to cross-check all income certificates with the tehsildar. If any fraud is found, the admission must be cancelled immediately and action must be initiated according to the law.
 
 About the distance of the schools, the mapping has been using Google Maps, the resolution stated. However, the parents have been advised to choose nearby schools. If the number of students within 1 km radius of a school is more than the number of the seats available, a lottery will be conducted. If the situation is other way around, all the students will be eligible. The same process will be applied within 3 km radius and so on, it added.
 
 The first school allotted to a child will remain final and if a parent fails to secure admission within the stipulated time, the admission will be cancelled and the child will not be allowed to take part in further rounds.
 
 About the level of entry, the resolution stated, if there are two schools within the same campus run by the same trust, but one from Std I to IV and another from Std V to VIII, then the entry level should be Std I and the school needs to carry forward the students till class VIII. If a new admission process is carried out in Std V, then 25% seats should be kept reserved. The schools have to make sure that there is no drop out or discrimination faced by these students.
 
 The online application form will be made simpler. All information regarding students admitted should be uploaded with bifurcation on the category under which they have been admitted.
 
 A senior official of the education board said, “Training of teachers and data entry operators are already on. The software changes are also being made and the NIC too will be training all officials and teachers. There will not be any procedural delays this time in the RTE.”
 
