HYDERABAD: Contract assistant professors, who are on the warpath against university authorities, have decided to up the ante. Failing to get a response from the state government and university officials even after four days of protests, they are now mulling to launch an  . This is likely to have a huge impact on education in most state varsities. 

 A decision regarding this is expected to be announced on Monday in the Osmania University (OU) campus. The dharna, which would enter the fifth day on Monday, is likely to be supported by a Congress MLA.
 
 "We have not received any response from the state. So, we are mulling to start an indefinite strike. Tomorrow, the dharna will begin at 10am and by evening, details about the indefinite strike will be announced," said  , contract assistant professor at the department of sociology in Arts College, OU.
 
 The contract teachers are fighting against the present system of employment that denies them job security. There are nearly 1,500 contract assistant professors working in various varsities such as Osmania University, Kakatiya University and Satavahana University. While university employees draw salary in lakhs, contract lecturers get between 23,000 and 40,000 even when they have 20 years of teaching experience. 
 
 The contract employees want the government to immediately regularize their jobs and give them salaries on par with the faculty on the university's direct payroll.
 
 The protesters, belonging to Universities Teachers Association (contract), Telangana Universities Teachers Association (contract), and Osmania University Contract Assistant Professors Association also demanded that the state government must not issue a notification for recruitment of regular teachers in the varsities until the contract employees' demands are fulfilled. They further added that contract lecturers working for more than 20 years should be shown preference before new recruitments are made. 
 
 While the protesters belonging to the above unions are planning to go ahead with the indefinite strike, Telangana All Universities Contract Teachers Association (T-AUCTA) have dropped out.
 
  While they gave a call for indefinite strike from Monday, they called it off saying that the Osmania University vice-chancellor   assured them of 'job security' when they met him on Saturday."Earlier, we gave a call for an indefinite strike starting from Monday. However, we met the VC and as he responded positively, we are calling off the strike," said M  , state president of T-AUCTA .
 
 The VC also sought to reassure employees saying the varsity had never said they will remove  
 
