AHMEDABAD: In yet another case busted by the Ahmedabad rural police, three units based in Changodar were named for releasing effluent and untreated water in   and in open, endangering public health. While Ahmedabad rural police’s   (SOG) has registered three cases, the state government’s   (GPCB) would file another case.

  
  According to SOG officials, a team led by sub-inspectors V M Koladara and N A Desai raided Osian Steel Pvt Ltd at New Industrial Estate in Changodar, Incotech Ltd at Mahagujarat Estate and Arihant Remedies near the canal in Fatewadi on Saturday.
 
 “The first unit was found releasing acidic effluent after acid wash of steel bars. They used to release the untreated water in stormwater line,” said an SOG official.
 
 “At Incotech, we found the coloured water remaining after dyeing cotton material was released in an open plot nearby. In the third instance, the manufacturers of ayurvedic products used to release water in the Narmada canal through tankers,” he added.
 
 “In all three instances, samples have been collected to ascertain chemicals involved and its impact on human lives,” an SOG official said.
 
 Officials have charged the units’ owners and those involved in disposing of the effluent and untreated water with IPC sections 277 (fouling water of public spring or reservoir), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) and 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance).
 
 “There have been constant complaints from nearby villages of the foul-smelling and foul-coloured water even when they try to get water by borewell. While some units flout the norms to save on the disposal charges, the practice lets the untreated water seep into farms and underground water resources,” said a police official. 
 
 Various stakeholders of Ahmedabad district had met last week to discuss dangers of unchecked pollutants, and it was decided to carry out stringent checks on irresponsible units. In past three years, Ahmedabad rural police alone has filed 11 cases related to pollution by industrial units.
 
 
 
 
 Most small and medium scale chemical units are not in a position to invest in technologies to contain waste toxicity and hence, they indulge in illegal practices. The government should involve engineering institutions in the state to explore more efficient processes and waste recycling technologies. Apart from lodging criminal cases, the GPCB should ensure that the chemical units maintain strict inventories of inputs and calculate their waste. 
 
 
