If you could ask   chairman   one question, what would it be? Would you ask him about the best way to bring back the eagles to your village? Probably not. It takes a child’s imagination (and daring) to ask such a question. And it takes someone of Premji’s stature and experience to appreciate its  .
 
  At the recent Earthian Awards in Bengaluru, Premji took many such creative questions from a room filled with school and college students, working on sustainability projects. The responses were tailor-made for the young audience — direct and insightful, minus any grandiosity or pretence.
  
  
 
  Yes, I was very naughty when I was a kid. And in those days, you got rapped on the knuckles, you got hit on your head and you had to be kneeling outside the class for a really long time. At least some of those practices are no longer there. But I spent a lot of time outside the class, kneeling.
  
  
 
  One is throw grains for them. Second, you must grow trees all along the paths of the eagles. They don’t normally come and sit on the ground. They come and sit on the trees.
  
  
 
  I worked very hard and I neglected my family.
  
  
 
  Wipro was not started by me. It was started by my father. But I think I contributed to expand its existing   range and to diversify. What inspired me was just the ambition to do better than what we were doing and to grow much faster than we had in the past.
  
  
 
  Hard work and a lot of luck. Two major things.
  
  
 
  It just comes by itself. You can’t search for it.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Well, I left college because I had to take over the responsibilities from my father, who died at very young, at the age of 51. But eventually, many, many years later, I did get a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University.
  
  
 
  I agree with you 100 per cent because the moment you have success, your expectations from the profession goes up. But more importantly, your expectations from yourself go up. And, I think, the only way to have sustained success is to keep competing with yourself. That’s the only enduring thing according to me.
  
  
 
  My experience says that the girls are always turning out to be smarter consistently. You just look at the quality of questions that you get from the ladies in the audience. They are, in my  , far more intelligent than the questions you get from the boys. Girls take their   more seriously. And girls, particularly in villages, take their careers even more seriously, once their parents give them the latitude to do that.
  
  
 
  Development is a concept of relativity. A nation is more developed compared to another nation primarily based on its per capita income. That’s the most important criteria that   use for development versus lack of development. But there are also many qualitative aspects that get ignored in the process. The quality of   for instance. Some countries are less developed, but have a very good quality education system. Some countries are very developed, but have a very poor quality education system. Secondly, social values should also be used in the concept of development. There are many developed nations that have social values which are significantly inferior to those of developing nations. I think it’s also a matter of how satisfied people in that country are. There are many people who are not satisfied in very developed countries. The typical example of the American election is the result of a revolt by the middle class, which thought it was getting a raw deal. I think the satisfaction index also becomes important.
  
  
 
  The smart cities project today is more talk than action. It is very unfortunate. It got a lot of attention from the Prime Minister, but its implementation has been very shallow. And wherever the implementation has been there, we have participated actively. I think the key priority for the government today is to get it moving. They first did a shortlist of 25 cities. Then they added another 25 cities. But there is very little action on the ground.
  
  
 
  I have seen a lot of changes in my career. But the pace of change today is probably 3x what it was even five and ten years ago. And the changes are across the board. There are changes in society, changes in  , there are changes in the global scene as we’ve seen with two major election results. Change is just everywhere. And unless you learn to cope with change, you will fall behind. It requires a lot of effort and it requires a lot of keeping your eyes   all the time. It requires a lot of relearning from you all the time. 
