Hyderabad: This nondescript shop tucked in neatly between rows of trinket shops in the bustling bylanes of the Laad Bazaar area has stitched a glam, haute couture connect to Bollywood not many even in Hyderabad are aware of.

 From upping the finery quotient of the Nawabs’ attire during the Nizamian era, the intricate Gota work embossed by the artisans at this 117-year old shop -- Ramchander Mohanlal   – is now adding bling to the outfits of Bollywood royalty – the likes of Priyanka Chopra, Deepika Padukone and Sonam Kapoor. In fact, its client list reads like the who’s who of the fashion world with Rohit Bal, Tarun Tahiliani, Sabyasachi and Anamika Khanna all queuing up outside its doors for glitzy ‘Hyderabadi Lampi,’ which is a form of Gota work. For the uninitiated, Rajasthan’s famed metal embroidery is known as Gota work and is used abundantly in ethnic Indian wear, especially as borders in sarees and dupattas.
 
 So how did a shop in the Charminar area of Hyderabad master the Rajasthani art of making Gota? Venugopal Ladda, who runs this shop along with his brother Kishangopal, says, “This shop was established by my great grandfather Ramchander Ladda. He, along with others from Rajasthan, migrated to Hyderabad around 140 years ago in search of work. He started this shop 117 years ago and used to sell only Rajasthani Gota. The Nawabs of yore were his main patrons. Apart from being used in dresses, Gota was and is still used in Hyderabad’s famous Khada Dupatta.”
 
 Venugopal adds that during the Nizamian era there were nearly 20-25 shops manned by people from Rajasthan churning out Gota work. “If you visit the Chowmahalla Palace and see the pictures or clothes on display, you will find that most of them have Gota work. In those days, the demand was huge but these days only a handful of shops selling Gota work remain in the Charminar area,” he adds.
 
 The sole reason that the passage of time has failed to fray the demand for Ramchander Mohanlal Ladda shop’s wares is that the family has kept pace with changing fashions, introducing new varieties from time-to-time.
 
 “We specialize in a form of Gota work that is called ‘Hyderabadi Lampi’. My father started making it in those days. In fact, we have the ‘monopoly’ and you will not get this in Rajasthan either. But now many have started copying us. Hyderabadi Lampi is made by weaving copper wire first, following which designs are embossed on the material. Hyderabadi Lampi is entirely handmade but the ones copying us use machines,” Venugopal adds. The demand for Hyderabad Lampi peaked after Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s blockbuster Devdas was released in 2002, he says, adding that in the past few years, the demand has tapered. Today it is mainly high-end designers and boutiques that buy it in bulk. “We supply to many boutiques in the city. Recently Anshu Modi, who has designed costumes for Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Bajirao Mastani and Sooraj Barjatya’s Prem Ratan Dhan Payo, used our Hyderabadi Lampi for their heroines’ outfits,” he says bursting with pride. Of course, there are also many individual customers that walk in during the weekends as Charminar is a popular tourist hotspot. However, with the change in demand patterns, the shop has also started retailing laces and borders that it procures from Surat in Gujarat and Mumbai. “We have diversified because we cannot survive only on Hyderabadi Lampi sales. We have also started making ‘Kalagis’ (a decorative piece that adorns the headgear of bridegrooms) too. We have to keep adapting. How else could our shop have survived over a century?” he wraps up.
 
 
