NEW DELHI: Hundreds of flyers on Friday spent hours holed up inside their aircraft. A mix of low visibility that set in from 3am and then airspace closure for Republic Day preparations delayed outbound flights by close to three hours.

 Airlines did not allow them to alight to stretch their legs and board later, closer to departure time. This ‘torture’ could continue at least till R-Day as the Directorate General of   (DGCA) has expressed its helplessness regarding this issue.
 
 The Met department forecast shows morning fog during the weekend and then an approaching western disturbance from Monday will shape weather conditions for the next week.
 
 “Our flight to Mumbai was at 9.40am and we boarded the aircraft at 9.15am. A little later the crew announced that the flight is delayed. We asked the crew to let us go back to the terminal. However, that was not allowed and the plane finally took off just before noon,” said S Mukherjee who had booked a low cost carrier to fly to Mumbai on Friday morning.
 
 An airline official said, “Visibility started dropping at 3.30 am and was poor till 9.30 am. Due to this arrivals and departures were affected that led to massive congestion of backlogged departures. Delhi air traffic control (ATC) gave clearance to a few departing flights only after 9.30 am. In all, 21 flights of all schedule Indian carriers were held up due to this.”
 
 Airlines started getting take off clearance from 11.35am onwards. Most airlines tweeted that their flights in and out of Delhi were delayed due to congestion. 
 
 While passengers said they understand bad weather and airspace restrictions can delay flights, what they refuse to accept is being seated inside aircraft for hours.
 
 DGCA has old airlines not to make people sit inside planes for long and should make them board only closer to actual departure time. But even the DGCA seems to have given up.
 
  “It is airlines’ decision if they want to make passengers alight from planes or keep them seated. May be airlines feel if they ask them to get down then the entire boarding procedure will have to be repeated and delay the flight when they get take off clearance,” said a senior official.
 
 
