PATNA: Bihar’s ruling JD (U),   and HAM-S on Wednesday came out in support of Ashok  , a day after he was removed from the post of state   president.

 Though they admitted it was an internal matter of Congress, they slammed the ‘Grand Old Party’ for “humiliating” a dalit. The 48-year-old Mahadalit leader was appointed state Congress chief in March 2013.
 
 Reports said Choudhary has the support of 10 of the Congress’ 27 MLAs, but they need seven more MLAs if they want to quit the party and, at the same time, escape the anti-defection law.
 
 Several MLAs and MLCs did not attend the ceremony at which newly appointed state Congress chief Kaukab Quadri took over at the Sadaqat Ashram in Patna on Wednesday.
 
 Sources said CM   also enjoys allegiance of at least ten Congress MLAs, who are said to have got Congress tickets for the assembly election in 2015 following his intervention. As many as eight ministerial berths are vacant in the Nitish-led cabinet, and political observers claim they have been deliberately kept vacant to lure dissident MLAs of Congress.
 
 Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Congress would face consequences as people would avenge the insult of a dalit. “Choudhary’s family has served Congress for the last over 50 years,” the BJP leader said.
 
 JD (U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh also said it was an internal matter of Congress, but pointed out that the party was thriving under the leadership of Choudhary. “Congress seems to have chosen to function as a B-team of RJD, but whoever has allied with Lalu Prasad has been doomed,” Singh said.
 
 HAM- S president and former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi said the number of Congress MLAs in Bihar rose from four to 27 with Choudhary at the state unit helm. “He is a scheduled caste leader and should not have been removed in such a humiliating manner,” Manjhi said.
 
 RJD’s state spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav, however, said Choudhary was the state Congress chief for long. Slamming JD (U) and BJP, Shakti asked, “Wasn’t the removal of Manjhi from the CM’s post by Nitish an insult of dalits?”
 
