JAIPUR:   has fulfilled long-pending demand of college teachers by according them designations in tune with the   (UGC). 

 The announcement came during the inaugural address by Raje in the 55th state-level convention of Rajasthan Universities and College Teachers Association (RUCTA) at   convention hall on Wednesday. 
 
 She announced to make necessary changes in the College Education Service Rules. The college teachers in Rajasthan have been hired as ‘lecturers’ by Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC). The UGC recognised three designations like assistant professor, associate professor and professor in colleges and universities. The designation ‘lecture’ is not recognized by the UGC since 2010 and till date, the college teachers in the state were not able to reap the benefits of several UGC schemes.
 
 The sixth Pay Commission allows teachers to be categorised in these three positions to get academic and financial benefits. “It is a beginning of a new chapter for the college teachers. This announcement would give us the confidence by giving us a unified academic ecosystem to grow. State government has submitted fake undertaking to the MHRD of implementing UGC rules. State has illegally deprived us of several benefits,” said Narayan Gupta, general secretary of RUCTA.
 
 The announcement was cheered by the teachers present in the convention. “The improper designation has cost us dearly academically. The mismatch has neither allowed us to take up research projects from funding agencies or take up fellowship programmes,” said Yogesh Gupta of RUCTA. The funding agencies UGC, DOT, CSIR AICTE and ICSSR don't recognise lecturer as a teaching post.
 
 Raje has also announced to provide WiFi in all government colleges. “The WiFi installation is in progress in government colleges in Dholpur, Bara, Sikar and Jaipur. Soon it will spread to other colleges,” said Raje.
 
 Raje also informed that state government is in discussion with an organisation for opening a first only college for deaf students. State doesn’t have a dedicated college for deaf students leaving most of them to drop out after Class XII.
 
