PANAJI: Post the polling on Saturday, young entrepreneur Pranav Pai Vernekar had a get-together with his cousins scheduled. The evening filled with animated discussions of what could be the possible outcome of the polls in their respective constituency. 

 When Pranav, a Santa Cruz constituency voter, woke up on the following day, it wasnt like any of the other laidback Sundays. His phone still kept buzzing with WhatsApp group chats, Facebook discussions and calls to speculate about the poll results. “The normal curiosity about election results is always there. But today, more than ever, the youngsters are interested in elections. They now know who is ruling us makes a big difference to our lives. Also, the medium available to facilitate such discussions like social media are much more today,” said Pranav.
 
 Mapusa-based lawyer, Sonam Kamat, is another such youngster, who said that development of Goa was her priority while casting her vote and now she is eager to know if her candidate gets the mandate.
 
 Marcel resident and a retired government servant, Ramchandra Naik, said that the voters’ curiosity has been triggered more this time around as there are too many candidates in the fray in each of Goa’s constituencies and voters know that luck will play a major factor, with new challengers cutting into established politicos’ vote bank. “Each candidate’s supporters are claiming a victory by a huge margin for their candidate. But everyone, including them, secretly knows the fact that such big margins are not possible this time. In most constituencies, there are a minimum of six candidates. In some there are 12. Some constituencies may see a surprise person win. This time, there are only a couple of constituencies where voters can definitely say that this candidate is leading,” said Naik. 
 
 Fatorda-based John Mendonca said that a large chunk of silent voters, this time, has made it difficult to predict which way the results will go. “Neighbours don’t want to tell the person living next door for whom they are voting,” said Mendonca, a senior citizen. This meant that the discussions over who will form the government only opened up post-polls.
 
 “I cant wait for it to be March 11 already as it would decide the future of the state. There is too much suspense over which party is forming the next government,” said Abhijit Teli, a businessman from Bicholim, who found himself juggling his catering business along with discussions over the election results on Sunday. 
 
 “I am keen that the persons who promised many things through their manifestos fulfill them,” said  , a voter from Salcete. Fernandes is not confident about positive changes, as the political class has let down the electorate. Agrees Jerson Gonsalves, a resident of Azossim, Tiswadi, “Our constituency is lacking in terms of development and amenities. We also need employment for our youth, and we are excited to know whether a candidate with a vision will be elected,” he said.
 
