RAJKOT/SURAT: Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel is all set to renew the agitation for reservation from Patan town on January 27.

 Hardik’s re-entry into the state has emboldened the   (PAAS) cadres that are now chalking out plans to renew the agitation.
 
 Hardik’s close aide   told TOI that they are chalking out strategy to renew the quota stir. “The second round of agitation will kickstart from Patan on January 27. We will be camping in Patan for four days from January 27,’’ Bambhaniya said.
 
 The reinvigorated Patidar agitation could become a fresh headache for the Vijay Rupani government which is already grappling with serious issues raised by Dalits led by young leader   as well as OBC leader Alpesh Thakore.
 
 Meanwhile, Hardik will reach Kamlapur village near Jasdan town of Rajkot district on Thursday night where he will stay at Bambhaniya’s residence. Bambhaniya also confirmed that Hardik would visit Kagvad on Friday to attend ongoing idol installation ceremony at  , the biggest congregation point for Leuva Patels. 
 
 His visit assumes significance in the wake of BJP MP from Porbandar Vitthal Radadiya’s statement that Hardik had nothing to do with Leuva Patels. The statement has not gone down well with Patidar youths, who have lashed out at Radadia on the social media. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Hardik also went to Surat to mark his presence before the crime branch that has registered various cases against him. The Gujarat high court had directed him to appear before the crime branch every week.
 
 However, unlike on July 15 last year, when a huge crowd had gathered to receive him on his release from Lajpore jail, there was barely 20 people with him on Thursday.
 
 “I have full faith in our judicial system and I honour the order of the Gujarat High Court to appear before the police in Surat and Ahmedabad every week,” Hardik told media persons. 
 
 He also slammed Radadia saying that the BJP MP is trying to divide Patidars and his statement was politically motivated looking at the Khodaldham event.
 
 Hardik’s Surat lawyer, Yashwant Vala said, “Hardik will be visiting Surat every Thursday to appear before the crime branch. He immediately left for Rajkot after deposing before the police.”
 
 
