Much before Gurgaon became Gurugram, the first   arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from south Delhi. Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a Gurugrammer identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the eleventh part of our weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers

 If the spaces that first came up in   felt like the back of beyond, then   resembled another country altogether. Such was what   and   felt when they moved from Delhi in 1990. “There was less population and more cycles. And for 4-5 years, the power never went out – we thought, ‘Doesn’t it ever go?!” recalls Manjit. Out at the back of their house passed a railway track, and the silences were punctuated by the train’s whistle. From nothing, they built a life of contentment for themselves, nurtured by the camaraderie of their neighbours. In 2006, the Lohiyas (including a son) swapped their nest in ‘H’ block for one in C-2. And even the memory of their neighbourhood being terrorised by dacoits, one December night in 1992, fails to dim their Gurgaon experience.
 
 The pioneers of Palam
 
 It was very quiet when we moved here, lots of space. Back then, there were 11 blocks in the colony (‘A’ to ‘K’), and between 300 and 350 families living here. A family here, another there – we were far away from each other. All of us had come from Delhi, and it felt like we had arrived in a new land! But we were all in the same boat, and understood the struggles newcomers faced, so we tried to be there for each other.
 
 The breeze that calls
 
 We would leave all the doors and windows open, at the front and back of the house. And because the surrounds were open, and the environment was clean and unpolluted, you’d know the wind is blowing, because you’d feel that vibration in your ears.
 
 Figuring out how to travel (and shop)
 
 One DTC bus would come to the border, near Bijwasan, which we would reach on scooter or on foot, a distance of some 2-3kms. Then there was one shared three-wheeler, sometimes so packed with passengers that it would struggle to move! There was no local conveyance, no rickshaws, and we were very much dependent on our own vehicles. So, the challenge was always there – how to get to Delhi, how to get back home.
 
 A   in Palam Vihar had a chai-pani shop and a store selling groceries. Mostly, it was just property dealers who would sit in that market. Then, items like flour, grains and lentils were cheaper in Gurgaon but we would end up buying stuff from Delhi.
 
 Their wild companions
 
 We have seen snakes as long as 20-25 feet! I remember, early on, just outside our house, spotting a monitor lizard, its long tongue sticking out. And there were many grasshoppers. And birds — lots and lots of them! Sparrows came in big numbers, a few who would build nests inside our house. And peacocks and pigeons — the place was filled with them. Once, at night, even a scorpion found its way in.
 
 That brush with dacoity
 
 It was all very dramatic, but fortunately everyone survived. Next day, the commissioner of police visited and promised more cops. He said that if anyone wanted to get a license for a revolver, he’d sign the form then and there. Despite this incident, crime was negligible. Now it seems as if there’s more crime in Gurgaon than in Delhi.
 
 The kindly chemist
 
 There was a Jain Medicos in Bijwasan, and here would sit a man who had a very good nature. The chemist catered to Bijwasan and Palam Vihar, and he would do home delivery of medicines – if he dropped them off at our house, I’d drop him off at his house in ‘C’ block!
 
 Look back in delight
 
 There were so few people that all of us knew each other, and had a lot of time for each other. There was plenty of open space, and all the children would happily play together. Most of those old families are still there. We’ve seen everything, and enjoyed our life as much as we possibly could.
 
 
