NEW DELHI: The   (CRPF), is moving back to its old mandate in Jammu and Kashmir, when it was sent there in 1989 for carrying out   aggressively. K Durga Prasad, director general of India’s largest paramilitary force, two days before his retirement, in an exclusive interaction, said that “we (CRPF) are now not just doing normal law and order duty in Kashmir. We are engaged actively in intelligence based counter-terror operations where our men hunt down the militants in their den.”

 Prasad said that CRPF was originally sent to J&K two decades back for counter-insurgency operations only. However, this role had been reduced to normal law and order duty in disturbed areas in last several years.
  
 In 2016, security forces killed around 150 terrorists in J&K while several overground workers (OGWs) of terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Toiba, Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammad and others were caught. CRPF has played an important role in some of the operations. During the stone pelting and continuous violence in the valley post   terrorist Burhan Wani, CRPF alongwith J&K police also arrested around 400 men who either instigated the stone pelting incidents or took part in them.
  
 Durga Prasad said that “nature of challenge (for security forces) has become tougher now due to stone pelting and revised militancy”. “Now we have to be aggressive with militants and take part in counter insurgency operations”, he added.
 
 The 2.75 lakh strong force has replicated its aggressive approach in Naxal corridor as well in last one and a half years. The force, Prasad says, has been conducting targeted operations based on intelligence shared by its own wing and IB inside the hardcore Maoists belts in Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand.
  
 “We have reached their bases in toughest areas and result has been that more and more Naxals and their sympathisers are surrendering before the forces,” Prasad said. 
 
 The statistics reveal that around 1,500 Naxals have surrendered in 2016, which was maximum in last six-seven years. This number used to remain around 500 to 600 surrenders in previous years. Also, about 220 Naxals have been killed by forces in 2016, much higher than the previous years.
  
 “As our operations are becoming more and more focused, Naxals and their symapthisers are coming out of their dens and they want to be on the side of development now and don’t want to be killed. They are surrendering because we have an upper hand due to the regular operations. We are not giving them time to think,” Prasad said.
  
 Prasad, who was made the chief of CRPF last year in February, visited the force’s camps in remote areas and regularly met the jawans.
  
 To boost the morale of forces, Prasad said that government should provide housing to the Jawans while there is substantial development in medical care and motivation through sports. 
 
 
