KANPUR: After Bihar, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Haryana are also keen to develop wildlife safari on the lines of   

 A source at Etawah Safari told TOI that delegations comprising of wildlife experts and government officials from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh had visited Etawah and collected details and studied the concept for opening a safari. 
 
 Senior government officers of Maharashtra and Haryana had contacted Etawah safari officials for sharing a technical knowhow for establishing safaris in their states. 
 
 On June 5, a senior official from Bihar had visited Etawah Safari for developing a wildlife safari at Rajgir town of Nalanda. 
 
 "After the June 5 visit of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar's OSD Gopal Singh, MP's wildlife department officials Kanchan Devi and Pankaj Agarwal and a senior officer of Chhattisgarh Mudit Kumar also visited Etawah to study the concept for developing a wildlife safari," an official said. "They extensively toured the key areas of the safari like animal house, quarantine enclosure, open arena for display of animals, recreation centre, leopard safari, bear safari and deer safari. The officials also discussed technical aspects for smooth commencement of wildlife project in their states," he added.
 
 Bihar environment and forest department had already started the process of putting in place the infrastructure for the 191-hectare facility at an estimated cost of Rs 60 crore, Gopal Singh said. 
 
 Rajgir Wildlife safari would be carved out of the existing forest area on the lines of Etawah safari. 
 
 It would be divided into five zones - one each for lions, tigers, leopards, bears and herbivores - plus an aviary zone for birds. 
 
 "With a good number of   and  , our country is already a home to fauna and flora of variousspecies. With the opening of five more wildlife safaris, it will be a positive step towards wildlife conservation and a proud moment for us when Etawah Safari would be considered as a role model," deputy director, Etawah safari, Anil Patel said. 
 
 Conceived by   in 2005, Lion Safari is considered to be a dream project of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 
