BENGALURU: If cricket is all about numbers, then Sunday morning at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium had little to offer. At lunch, Australia had added a mere 47 runs to their overnight score of 40, while India had prized out two visiting batsmen. When stumps were drawn on the second day of the second Test, Australia had their nose in front, but India had made them sweat every inch of the way.

 On a tricky surface, the visitors walked away with a 48-run first-innings lead as they ended the day on 2376. What set the Aussies apart was the fact that they did what the Indians failed to do on the opening day - put a high price on their wickets. They blocked and defended, frustrating India's attack. And 20-year-old Matt Renshaw (60, 196b, 5x4, 1x6) and Shaun Marsh (66, 197b, 4x4) did that admirably.
 
 The beauty of the longer format lies in the battles fought between bat and ball. And words, too. The first hour yielded a mere 21 runs and one wicket, but the highlight of that enthralling hour was a duel between India's relentless attack and Aussie batsmen refusing to surrender. On a pitch best suited for spinners, the pace duo of   and Ishant Sharma generated some bounce, while R Ashwin bowled a lot outside leg to keep a rein on Australia's scoring.
 
 Renshaw's patience and composure belied the fact that this was only his sixth Test match, while skipper  's 81 minutes at the crease frustrated the Indians. He scored eight runs off 52 deliveries. Runs were at a premium, but the morning was peppered with close calls and on-field theatricals.
 
 Ashwin struck in the fifth over of the day when   lost his off-stump to a delivery pitched well outside leg and turned a mile. Smith, who came in next, spent over an hour prodding the odd single in the gap. Ravindra Jadeja (349), India's most successful bowler, was underutilised in the first two sessions, but struck early in his spell, sending back Smith, who was pouched by Wriddhiman Saha as he attempted to play defensively.
 
 Going into lunch at 872, both the teams would have fancied their chances, but Renshaw and Shaun Marsh, the youngest and oldest members of the side respectively, ground it out after the latter survived Kohli and his men's lack of confidence in their call to appeal, The Indians, who have had a horrendous record with DRS, showed no inclination in reviewing what was a catch by wicketkeeper Saha off the glove off Umesh's bowling.
 
 With the partnership going strong, Jadeja, bowling from the northern end, first lured Renshaw with a half-volley which the Queensland youngster promptly dispatched it over mid-off for the first maximum of the match. A ball after, Renshaw again stepped out to a delivery on leg, only to be beaten and Saha did the rest to end the opener's valiant innings.
 
 India's fight gained momentum as Peter Handscomb (16, 20b, 2x4) and Mitchell Marsh (0, 11b) were dismissed in quick succession. Ashwin held on to a smart catch after the ball popped out of his hand, off Jadeja's bowling, at short midwicket to end Handscomb's innings. Mitchell trooped back to the dressing room in time for tea. Off the last ball of the second session, which yielded 76 runs, he was beaten by an Ishant delivery that stayed low and was trapped plumb in front.
 
 Resuming the final session at 1635, the sixth-wicket partnership between Shaun Marsh and Mathew Wade (25 n.o., 68b, 2x4) survived a couple of dropped catches before the former was caught by Karun Nair at short midwicket off Yadav.
 
 With every run worth its weight in gold, the Indians will look to restrict the Australian lead and strive to find their batting mojo to make a match it.
 
