As neighbouring state UP bags the   for the Most Film-Friendly State, filmmakers say that Delhi can never win the award. Despite many films being shot in the capital every year, and many promises by the administration to develop the city as a shooting destination, filmmakers tell us that they have had to face hurdles at every stage while shooting here. The application form for the most film-friendly state award asks whether the state has a single-window system to issue permissions, and a dedicated web portal for online submissions for seeking permission, among other criteria for the award. When we asked filmmakers to rate Delhi according to the various requirements in the form, the reply we got was, "How do we rate? All these categories are non-existent in Delhi."

 
 The parameters for the award have been laid down by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce & Industries, to judge the 'ease of doing business' there. With a host of agencies involved in the permissions process, creating as many roadblocks as possible, filmmakers say there is nothing 'easy' about shooting films in Delhi. From the I&B Ministry to the NFDC and the Film Facilitation Office, all the decision makers are in the capital, but the filmmakers still don’t get permission to shoot here easily. And often there is some or the agency that doesn’t clear shooting permissions, forcing makers to shift locations. 
 
 Recently, Imtiaz Ali, who has shot for films like 'Rockstar' and ' ' in the capital, didn’t get permission to shoot some scenes of his upcoming SRK-Anushka Sharma-starrer in Khan Market. A source tells us, "A few scenes of Imtiaz’s film were scheduled to be shot in Khan Market and the location was also finalized. But he didn't get permission from the authorities and the police, so those scenes will now be shot in Mumbai."
 
 A couple of weeks ago, an environmental activist protested against the shoot of Tiger Shroff-starrer Munna Michael in Lodhi Garden on the grounds that the team was violating the guidelines laid down for shooting in the garden. 
 
  
  
 
 "Delhi has beautiful locations, and all filmmakers want to shoot here. But it can never get the film-friendly award because of its bureaucratic set-up. There are too many agencies involved in the permissions process. Another place where UP scores higher than Delhi is subsidy. Because of the government subsidy, the number of film shootings in UP has increased. The problem is that most state governments do not understand the benefits film shootings brings. It increases tourism, helps the local economy and creates employment. Then there are other parameters for being film-friendly – single-window permissions, security, infrastructure for shooting. Keeping all this in mind, I don’t think Delhi is in any position to claim the award. When it comes to shooting in Delhi’s monuments, I understand why ASI has to be careful when giving permissions. But there is a very easy way of making sure that the sites are not harmed – by deploying people. Archeological sites around the world allow film shoots, but not Delhi. The process is so systematic in Europe. The West realises the benefits of film shooting and many countries provide 30-47% subsidy. That’s why most directors end up shooting abroad," says  , who has shot ' ' and other films in Delhi.
 
 
  
  
 
 Luv Ranjan, who has directed films like 'Pyaar Ka Punchnama' and 'Akaash Vani', says that shooting in the capital comes with a lot of extra paperwork. "I have shot all my four films in Delhi. I was just recently shooting in Delhi,” he says, and adds, “If you are shooting in CP, you need permission from the NDMC, the traffic police,   and then the local association. It becomes a headache to take permission from so many agencies, but if you are shooting in the capital, you are expected to do that much paperwork."
 
 But he says that getting all the requisite permissions is still not enough to guarantee hassle-free shooting. "You go to the cops for permission – they normally end up asking for money. Everyone knows this, sab dete hain. Even if you have all the paperwork, they ask for money. I have given money not only to beat officers, but to DCPs also. India Gate pe, boundary ke andar CPWD ki permission chahiye, boundary ke bahar NDMC ki, phir police. Just 10 days ago, when I was shooting at India Gate, a Delhi Police officer from the NDMC came to me asking for money even though it was not an NDMC area. I had to pay. There is a simple formula for shooting in Delhi – have cash and a line producer who has jugaad. They say it takes seven days to give permission for shooting, but they also give it in an hour. 'Pay cash' – it's the single formula to shoot not just in Delhi but anywhere in the country," says Ranjan.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Sachin Gupta, who has shot films like ' ' in Delhi, says, "Delhi has a lot of character to it, and visual scope. People want to see real locations, so filmmakers go to places they wouldn’t normally go to, and not just show montage shots of Rajpath and Rashtrapati Bhawan. But we don’t get permission to shoot easily. First, they will ask you, director ko bulao, producer ko bulao – ab director-producer itni jaldi toh nahin aa sakte har jagah ki permission lene. The attitude is so wrong, the way creative people are treated by these agencies is ridiculous. Nothing is organised, there is nobody to complain to. When I had to shoot for a film in Chandni Chowk, after my cast and crew reached the location, the house owner asked me to pay Rs1 lakh more. Where should I go to complain in such a case? And if you file a complaint, go to the police, when do you shoot?"
 
 Another filmmaker who shot a film in Delhi recently, without wishing to be named, adds, "In Delhi, when the police get to know that you are shooting in a particular area, they also come in the evening to ask for money – 'hamare ladke apka subah se dhyan rakh rahe hain, aap inka bhi thoda rakh lo.' So we have to bribe them as well."
 
 
  
  A still from 'Paranthe Wali Gali'
 
 
  
  Over the years, filmmakers trying to shoot in Delhi have faced problems and roadblocks from multiple quarters
 
 
  
  Among Tourism Minister  's plans last year was promoting Delhi as a film-friendly state, which he spoke at length about in an interview to us in April 2016
 
 After being appointed Delhi's tourism minister, one of Kapil Mishra’s plans was to make Delhi a shooting-friendly state. In an interview to Delhi Times last year, he had said, "We are yet to decide whether DTTDC (Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation) will be the nodal agency or not, but we are certainly planning to appoint a nodal agency for film shooting to grant permissions, and also to promote film shoots here. This year, you will see that happening. UP received a special mention in the   because they are giving out extra money for film shoots in their state, that we are not going to do. However, as part of our Brand Delhi campaign, we will promote Delhi as a destination for film shoots. Mumbai is saturated, so we definitely have an opportunity here."
 
 When we asked Kapil Mishra about Delhi’s lost opportunity at the National Awards, he chose not to comment.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
