TRICHY: While farmers’ bodies have the welcomed the release of Rs 308.62 crore, under the National Agriculture   (NAIS), to   districts who have been in great distress owing to the drought, association leaders have stressed that the amount should  , not the bankers. They expressed concern that if the amount would be compensated against their existing unpaid loan amount, the very purpose of disbursing the money would be defeated. 

 According to the announcement by the Tamil Nadu government, the farmers from Nagapattinam district would receive Rs 205.5 crore, farmers in Tiruvarur district would receive Rs 101.7 crore while Thanjavur farmers would get Rs 1.42 crore. Insurance companies released a total of Rs 403 crore, including the state’s share of Rs 168.66 crore, towards compensation for the samba crop for the year 2015-16 under NAIS on May 23. 
 
 In Nagapattinam district, 1,13,800 farmers who had taken up samba cultivation over 3,10,592.5 acres would benefit as the amount will be credited directly to their respective savings account within the next few days, officials from agriculture department said.
 
 In Tiruvarur, 93,964 farmers would benefit as the total land covered under the insurance scheme in the district was 2,84,220 acres, officials said. 
 
 While welcoming the announcement by the state government, farmers’ bodies urged the government to instruct the bankers not to debit the amount against their debt. “Farmers are already in distress owing to the drought in the state. So, the amount would be somewhat helpful. We appeal the bankers not to adjust this against their existing unpaid loan amounts. The state level bankers committee should strictly direct the bankers in this regard,” said Swamimalai R Vimalnathan, secretary of   Cauvery Farmers Protection Association.
 
 Despite RBI’s direction and state level bankers committee’s instructions, many farmers have been issued notice over their jewellery which will be auctioned for unpaid loan amounts in Thanjavur district, he alleged.
 
