JAIPUR: The   has sought expression of interest from   for the running of 50  . The aim is to run these in   (PPP) mode. The proposals will be opened on July 31.

 This move is explained as necessary because access to healthcare remains uneven. The partnership will initially be for three years, and could be extended for another two. 
 
 Anticipating criticism, the invitation document says, “Such partnership should not be seen as a measure of the government abdicating responsibility to provide public health services, but rather as a transitional measure towards facilitating the state to be able to manage such facilities after the term of the partnership ceases.”
 
 It also says: “Government expects that the concession granted will not be treated as a business venture and will not be used to make profits.”
 
 And this is underlined: “Concessionaires may note that this is an invitation for bids solely comprising of technical bid without an accompanying financial bid.”
 
 The entity winning the bid would be expected to run the primary health centre located in an urban area and the health kiosk that is nearby. Services to be included are listed: primary healthcare package encompassing all outreach, including behavior change through health education and health promotion, critical and public health services.”
 
 Pregnancy, childbirth, infant care, childhood and adolescent healthcare, family planning and contraceptive services, management of communicable diseases, outpatient care for minor ailments and acute simple illnesses are expected to be provided. The government will reimburse costs.
 
 Chhaya Pachauli of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, who attempted to find one PHC listed as Gurjar Ki Thadi (New Sanganer Road) could not locate it. She said, “If the PHC is running well, it makes no sense to hand it over to a private agency. And if it does not even exist, it might be impossible to build it from scratch if all the government offers is reimbursement of costs. What is likely is that a private hospital will take it up and then run it within its own premises.”
 
 Additional director of National Health Mission for the state BL Kothari said, “All our staff at present is contractual. We will provide market rents for spaces that need to be hired. The staff will be free to move to the employ of the agency winning the bid. The government offers a contract of three years; if work is satisfactory, it will be extended for another two years.” Asked if the government did not intend a long-term engagement of regular staff for PHCs, he said, “We follow the advice and wisdom of those senior to us, who have decided that these posts can be manned by people on contract.” 
 
 Chhaya Pachauli pointed out that the experience of contracting out the work of rural PHCs had not proven so good. “Of the 213 that the government wanted to offer to private players, it managed takers only for 41; some opted out later. Of the 41, 19 had already been given out to the Wish Foundation earlier.”
 
 Dr Narendra Gupta of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan said, “Although workers are on contract with the National Healh Mission, our hospitals are staffed by permanent people. About 80% of doctors are on permanent government payroll. There is now a proposal for an All-India Medical Service too, like the IAS. This is a good idea, and people in it should be given time-bound promotion and opportunity for career advancement, like any Central service. Why should people be engaged on contract in such roles that are permanent? We need greater accountability and that is better ensured with people who work for government.”
 
 
