NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh 
  has a “Plan B” in place in case the feud in the   prevents him from fielding candidates in the coming 
  . 

 The Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP-R) — the party of the late   who was PM for seven months in the early 1990s — could come to Akhilesh’s rescue in case the 
  by the Election Commission. SJP(R)’s current president, Kamal  , has offered Akhilesh the option of contesting the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh on the party’s tree symbol. 
 
 “We have heard Kamal Morarka has consulted  ,” confirmed a Samajwadi Party leader, who has been a trusted team member of the Akhilesh camp. “We are hopeful that the Election Commission will rule in our favour as most of the national executive members and elected representatives were present in the meeting,” he added, asserting that 
  in accordance with its bylaws and with the requisite numbers. 
 
 The option, however, comes at a cost. Fighting polls on the symbol of another party will undermine the Akhilesh camp’s claim to be the real Samajwadi Party and, more crucially, to the party’s cycle symbol. 
 
 The leader, who hinted at the Akhilesh camp being in touch with Morarka was associated with Chandra Shekhar also. The SJP(R) was founded by Chandra Shekhar and he led the party until his death on July 8, 2007. Shekhar was the only Lok Sabha MP of the party at the time of his death. The party was formed on November 5, 1990 when Chandra Shekhar and Haryana leader Devi Lal broke from Janata Dal with 60 MPs and formed a government with Congress support which lasted seven months. 
 
 Kamal Morarka, who was minister in the government headed by Chandra Shekhar, is the current head of the party. In April 2015, Morarka was also present in the meeting of the Janata Parivar splinters at Mulayam Singh Yadav’s residence in Lucknow, exploring the merger of their parties to forge a national anti-BJP front. However, Mulayam had backtracked, leaving the entire plan in limbo. One of the ministers in the Akhilesh government, Ram Govind Choudhary, was SJP president until he joined the Samajwadi Party. Choudhary is currently an MLA from Bansdih in Ballia and was one of the prominent names dropped from the Samajwadi Party list of candidates finalised by Mulayam and Shivpal. 
 
 Chandra Shekhar’s son Neeraj Shekhar, a Rajya Sabha MP, is also among the trusted loyalists of Akhilesh Yadav. However, one acquaintance of Morarka claimed that the latter had not approached Akhilesh or his camp and it was only a rumour floated by a section of Akhilesh loyalists.
 
