PATNA: Taking a cue from chief minister (CM)  , thousands of college and university teachers in Bihar will soon form a human chain not to support the much-publicised prohibition, but to show their protest against the ever-increasing apathy of the state government towards higher education. They will also strive hard to arouse people’s concern for the deteriorating condition of the education system.

 Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) working president   and general secretary   pointed out that even though the chancellor, the CM and the education minister publicly emphasize the need for imparting quality education at all levels, they hardly take any step for executing the same. “The education department is showing great interest in installation of Wi-Fi on campuses, but it is not bothered about growing absenteeism among students and the declining strength of teachers. Students do not go to college as there are no teachers to teach them. Can Wi-Fi be a substitute for teachers,” they asked.
 
 The university authorities are always working under tremendous stress for diffusing the resentment of teachers and low-paid non-teaching staff due to non-payment of salaries for several months together. In the current financial year, they would receive their salaries only on three occasions.
 
 Retired teachers and non-teaching staff of the universities most of whom need proper medicare do not get their monthly pension regularly. Payment of pension is linked to salary grants received from the government and the grants have not been revised for several years. The banks have refused to sanction any overdraft to the universities as a result of which retirement benefits like gratuity and leave encashment are not being paid for years. Ultimately, they have to approach the court for the redressal of their grievances. A gardener of  , Katihar died in harness recently due to non-payment of his salaries for several months. 
 
 They apprehended that if the quantum of grants under pension head is not enhanced (several universities have already sent SoS messages to the government in this regard), the payment of pension may be stopped forthwith.
 
