MEERUT/MUZAFFARNAGAR: Ramesh Chand, a 46-year-old farmer from Muzaffarnagar’s Kawal village — the epicentre of the 2013 riots, had planned to pay off a debt he had taken for his daughter’s wedding. After two bad years of unseasonal rains and drought, he was hoping to make recoveries when demonetisation struck him and other farmers “like a thunderbolt”.

 “The weather looked good and everything seemed fi ne when, suddenly, cash dried up. The three-week delay in procuring seeds wiped off our smiles. I’m now looking at a below-average crop and hoping I’ll at least recover my investment,” he says. A supporter of BJP in the 2014 LS polls, he says he’s disillusioned with the party now.
 
 Next door in Kambhor village, Rajpal Singh, a cane grower, says: “PM   said on the day he announced demonetisation that the move was aimed at curbing black money. Had that been successful, BJP candidates would have gone to town claiming victory. But their candidates don’t have a word on it.” Singh is not off the mark. BJP chief  , who was in Meerut on Friday, didn’t mention demonetisation even once in his 15-minute speech.
 
 Demonetisation was announced on November 8, when kharif was ready to be harvested and rabi sowed. It couldn’t have come at a worse time. Labourers had to be paid. Travel costs to be covered. Things had to be bought and sold. Vegetable and fruit growers, a sizeable chunk of farmers in western UP, depend on the cash-only transport sector. Though a NITI Aayog member recently said “agriculture, the economy’s largest informal sector, has shown strong resilience to the effect of demonetisation”, experts say production in 2016-17 could drop if sowed acreage falls for want of seeds on time.
 
 Ashok Kumar, director (research) at Meerut’s Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Agriculture University, said: “Demonetisation impacted crops, vegetables and dairy. Crop yield will reduce by 12% to 15%.” This is because wheat sowing hadn’t been com- pleted when demonetisation was announced.
 
 Farmers who had to make do without fertilisers at that point in time would suffer, as lack of fertilisers at sowing time would hit the March-April yield. “Ploughing suffered. Tractors run on diesel, which wasn’t available,” he said.
 
 This impacted mandis too, as they couldn’t take delivery of winter vegetables because of the cash crunch. There were instances of vegetable crops being destroyed. Kumar says the farmer will need at least two seasons to recover from that loss.
 
 In sugarcane-growing west UP, farmers, who are paid by sugar mills in cheque, faced a tough time encashing them. “For several weeks, we made rounds of banks hoping to encash our cheques, but to no avail,” said Rajpal Singh.
 
 “Cane growers are angry with BJP’s anti-farmer policies,” said Khan Zafar Sultan, a Jat leader in Bijnor. Local estimates are that sugarcane supports almost 5 million farmers in UP and generates over Rs 30,000 crore through production of sugar, ethanol, spirits, power and gur.
 
 Shafi q Ali, a timber merchant in Saharanpur city, said he is surprised politicians hadn’t made demonetisation a “huge” issue these polls. “It’s about the livelihood of millions. I understand BJP not talking about it, but others too are by an large silent.”
 
 The impact of notebandi is likely to be felt acroos the poll-bound region, home to several clusters of craft-driven local industries — scissors and locks in Aligarh, bangles and glasswork in Firozabad, woodcarving in Saharanpur, ceramic pottery and porcelain in Bulandshahr’s Khurja, shoes and leatherwork in Agra. Thousands working in these units were rendered jobless as factories shut or whittled their output.
 
 Bhuri Singh Yadav, leader of a labour union in Firozabad said, “Around 65% of bangle-making units are shut even two months after demonetisation. The move has impacted at least 10,000 families here alone. Workers are angry with BJP. But they also feel SP did little to rescue them.”
 
 The lack of cash has impacted campaigning too.
 
 Unlike earlier, when towns would be painted in party colours, there is hardly any buzz this time. Anil Chauhan, BJP rebel now contesting on an RLD ticket in Kairana, said, “It looks like a wedding without pomp.”
 
