PUNE: The body of a 14-year-old boy, who accidentally fell into a drainage chamber near   on Saturday, was recovered from a pumping centre in   on Sunday morning. 

 The city fire brigade officials recovered the body of   from the pumping station on the banks of the Mutha river around 10.30am. Soon after, the body was taken to the Sassoon general hospital for a postmortem. 
 
 The Dattawadi police has filed a complaint against a   (PMC) contractor for causing death by negligence under Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code. “The contractor had illegally broken the drainage chamber to divert the excess flow of nullah water into the drainage,” police said. 
 
 Sub inspector D R Mohite of Dattawadi police told TOI that police initiated action after receiving a complaint from the boy’s maternal uncle,   (31).
 
 The incident occurred when Ganesh and his friends were playing cricket at a small open plot located near the nullah. “When the boys were playing, their ball fell into the nullah. While searching the ball, Ganesh realised that it had landed on the opening of a big drainage chamber that channelises the area’s sewage and so began trying to get it out with the help of a stick. During the process, he accidentally fell into it,” police said.
 
 Locals demand strong action
 
 A large number of people gathered at the slums near Dandekar bridge on Sunday after the body of the boy was taken to the area.
 
 The residents demanded that a strong legal action should be initiated against the contractor. “When police and other authorities promised to initiate legal proceedings against the contractors concerned, the locals allowed the body to be taken for final rites,” police said.
 
 “The boy’s mother, Rekha, works as housemaid in the societies near the slum area. His father is a painter, but he stays separately,” a relative of the boy said.
 
 Rekha stays with her parents in a small hutment in the slums. Ganesh was a standard VII students of a nearby PMC school. “However, he seldom attended his classes,” the relative said, adding that he wanted to support his mother to make ends meet.
 
 RAHUL
 
 
