GURUGRAM: In an exclusive revealation to TOI,   last week released figures of cases related to power theft in the new Gurgaon circle, for the month of June. The figures show a staggering   amount of Rs 3.19 crore that has been imposed on 369 violators. 

 Till October last year, the   had imposed penalty of Rs 4.88 crore in 1,218 cases of power   in both new and old Gurgaon, which was under a single operational circle back then. 
 
 Gurgaon circle was split into two smaller ones — old and new — earlier this year, due to management concerns.
 
 The new Gurgaon circle comprises of two divisions — suburban and Sohna. All important places in Gurgaon, including Cybercity, are in new Gurgaon circle. 
 
 According to senior discom officials, the penalty amount for the 369 cases of power theft detected in June, is the highest ever from all 11 districts of south Haryana, including Gurgaon. Though, of the total amount, the discom has so far recovered a mere Rs 48 lakh.
 
 The data shows the suburban division has imposed a penalty of Rs 1.88 crore for 183 cases of power theft in June, whereas Sohna division has imposed Rs 1.31 crore penalty for 186 cases of power theft for the same period. 
 
 In May, the discom had detected 338 cases of power theft in new Gurgaon, and imposed a penalty of Rs 1.72 crore.
 
 Apparently, the discom has scaled-up its drive against violators during the last few months. In January, the discom rolled out a number of policies aimed at curbing line losses arising from power theft. 
 
 The current rate of line loss in urban Gurgaon is around 10%, the lowest in Haryana, according to officials.
 
 At the time, DHBVN had announced plans to reward whistleblowers, who would get 10% of the amount recovered in each case of theft brought to their notice. Last month, the discom also awarded Rs 2.5 lakh to 35 Nigam employees, who acted as informers in theft cases.
 
  “The penalty amount realised in sub-urban division this month is the highest ever from any division of south Haryana,” Aggarwal said. “The drive will continue. We have vigilance officials also accompanying us. We are filing an FIR for every case of theft we are detecting.”
 
 Aggarwal said the discom’s first priority is to probe those consumers whose meters reflect astonishingly low consumption per kilo watt of power. 
 
 
