Jaipur: The controversy over the hereditary post of Ajmer Dargah’s Dewan between two brothers ---   and his younger brother Syed Allaudin Alimi -- refuses to die down.

 Days after Khan’s younger brother Alimi declared him a Murtad (non-Muslim) and claimed to have suspended him from the Dewan’s post following his statement on Triple Talaq, Alimi was barred from entering the shrine on late on Thursday evening.
 
 Alimi’s son, Danish, circulated on Friday a message claiming that his father was under house arrest by the police. The move, by the district administration and the police, was to avoid any untoward incident inside the shrine.
 
 Alimi had earlier written to the  , District Collector and SP asking them to mak necessary arrangements for him to preside over the Mehfil held in the shrine every Thursday.
 
 The Dargah Committee, however, wrote back to Alimi refuseing to provide him any assistance and told him that as per records Abedin Ali Khan is still the  . 
 
 Sources said that house arrest was in keeping with facts that Alimi posed a threat to the Dewan who has a Y level security.
 
 Dewan had stated that triple talaq in one sitting is not in tune with Islam that led Alimi to circulate a letter that the Dewan as a non-muslim and suspending him from the post. In the letter he also claimed himself to be the new Dewan by virtue of being the younger brother.
 
 The Dewan had said that the pronouncement of talaq one by one should take place in a span of 90 days amidst negotiations.
 
 The Dargah Dewan had then rubbished the claim of his brother and declared his son Syed Nasiruddin as his rightful successor. “My brother under no capacity—legal or religious -- has a right to denounce my position as the Dargah Dewan. It’s a hereditary post and he has no business as per the traditions being followed from centuries. He is playing at the hands of Islamist who dont like my stand on social problems,” the Dewan had said.
 
 The Dewan also questioned a section of media that ran the suspension story without verifying the facts.
 
