Controversial reality series, Bigg Boss, is back with its 11th edition. The premiere episode of  , which aired on October 1, gave us a sneak peek into all the craziness that we are about to witness in the coming weeks. This time around, while the the celebrities are sophisticated and understated on the show (barring Shilpa Shinde), commoners look overconfident. 
 
 Bigg Boss 11 sees the return of Bollywood superstar   as a host. He is his usual self - charming, witty and entertaining. At the outset of the show itself, Salman made everyone laugh by drawing a comparison between marriage and Bigg Boss. He didn't hesitate to mention his neighbours on Television - Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan and Akshay Kumar. And the fact that he has outdone them all with the success of his reality series. Considering the 'Dabangg' Khan is all candid in his demeanor, he even laughed off his remuneration rumours on the show. His camaraderie with the contestants, and the fact that he is all enthusiastic about dancing and singing on stage set him apart from any other host on Indian Television. 
  
 The commoners this season include Akash Anil Dadlani, Mehjabi Siddiqui, Lucinda Nicholas, Sabyasachi Satpathy, Luv Tyagi, Sapna Chaudhary, Shivani Durga, Jyoti Kumari, Puneesh Sharma, Zubair Khan, Bandgi Kalra and Arshi Khan. All of them looked way too overconfident as they spoke about what they intended to do in the   house. Akash stood out for entertaining the audience, Lucinda for her grace and Shivani for being a tantric baba on the show (remember Om Swami of Bigg Boss 10?). Zubair, too, drew attention for his 'underworld connection'. With a god-woman and an International contestant again, the show seems to be playing safe with a hit formula in place. 
 
  
  
 From the list of celebrities, Hina Khan stole the show with her performance on the classic number 'Lag Ja Gale' and Shilpa Shinde managed to create a storm on the stage by opening up about her real life battle with the producers of 'Bhabhi Ji' and picking up a fight with contestant Vikas Gupta. On the other hand, 'Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi' fame Hiten Tejwani was all peaceful and zen-like when he entered the house. Other celebrity contestants include: Priyank Sharma, Benafsha Soonawalla and Priank Sharma.
  
 The sets of the show this time are grander than the previous seasons. The house has a feel of bonhomie and is more in sync with the present times. The cast of Judwaa 2 added a generous dose of entertainment in the premiere episode. The two-hour show did not see a dull moment, with contestants even getting into fights and gossiping in the house. The theme 'padosis' already sees the commoners ganging up against celebs. And it remains to be seen how far the craziness in the house goes this season. 
  
 With contestants - both celebs and commoners - well-versed with the format of the show, it will be interesting to watch them battle it out. Going by the premiere episode, the show packs in everything one expects it to - the chaos, the fight, the confusion and some laughter.
  
 
