NAGPUR: A man accused of theft and his friend were tied up and brutally beaten up with a thick plastic pipe and hardened rubber pieces until they fell unconscious on Wednesday at 1.30am. The ‘thief’, identified as Mohammad Nasim (45), succumbed to injuries after falling into a nullah on the Guard Line Road the same day. However, his friend   (32), who too sustained serious injuries, felt too afraid to reveal the incident to anyone.

 The incident came to the notice of Tehsil police after the control room was informed of a body in the nullah on Wednesday morning. When cops reached the spot, locals, who too gathered, identified the person. However, nobody found the death ‘suspicious’ since the man was known to remain intoxicated almost all the time.
 
 Cops said the assault on the two men came to light when the deceased’s elder brother Mohammad Salim (43) went to Ashraf’s place on Thursday, since he had been with Nasim on Wednesday night.   was badly frightened after the incident, and had kept quiet till then.
 
 Ashraf then told Salim that Javed Khan alias Taj Mohammad, Wahid Khan and Wahid’s brother-in-law Baba had intercepted the duo while they were coming back from Meetha Neem Dargah. Javed accused Nasim of stealing a battery from his scrap shop. Ashraf said that when Nasim denied the accusation, the accused tied both of them with ropes and thrashed them indiscriminately.
 
 Tehsil police said Nasim and Ashraf, both residents of Mominpura, close to the crime scene, were addicted to narcotics. The duo was probably under the influence of drugs, hence they couldn’t resist. The duo somehow managed to untie the ropes after the accused left the pot. While they were returning to their home, Nasim fell into the nullah.
 
 Salim took Ashraf to the police station after hearing the story, and informed the cops about the murder.
 
 Cops immediately registered an offence of murder against the three and nabbed main accused Javed from his shop on Thursday. Wahid and Baba were at large till the filing the report.
 
