KOLKATA: Around 3pm on Tuesday , a pair of   walked to the  , a little reluctantly, in an  . He held on to the guard rails of the box and peered at the audience through the gap. A hushed silence descended on the packed courtroom as the judge began speaking to the boy affectionately .

 “What is your name? In which class do you study?
 Can you tell me the names of your best friends? What games do you play with them?
 What did you eat for breakfast?...“ The playful posers put the child at ease and the judge casually slipped in the most crucial important question: “Who do you want to live with -your mother or father?“ The little boy, all of six, looked at his parents seated in front of him. “I want to live with my  ,“ he said, sealing the custody battle in favour of the father.
 
 The agonising drama was played out in the court of the third judicial magistrate, Binay Kumar Nonia.
 
 Advocate Tanmoy Chatterjee said: “It is wrong to assume that mothers will always get the guardianship of children. Under The Hindu Minority Act, 1956 and Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, only infants till the age of five years can be handed over to their mothers under ordinary circumstances. But for other mitigating circumstances, it is the judge who will decide the guardianship with the child's welfare and upbringing in mind.“ Estranged parents Asim Kumar Sardar and Su mitra Sadar have been living separately for more than a year now. According to Asim Sardar, his wife Sumitra left his home in Canning in Septemper 2015 because of marital problems. Since then she has been living in Basanti with her parents, but the boy stayed back with him. While neither has filed for divorce yet, Sumitra reportedly refuses to come back to live with her husband but has on a few occasions tried to take the boy with her.
 
 In October 2015, Sumitra approached the court and filed a suit against her husband and in-laws under section 97 (CrPC) stating that her son was being confided wrongfully. During a hearing in December last year, the third judicial magistrate awarded the child's custody to the mother.
 
 “We challenged this order immediately and approached the district and sessions court Alipore,“ said advocate Dipanakar Mandal.
 
 The Alipore district and session's court judge, Suranjan Kundu, stayed the order of the lower court and ordered that the boy be produced in the lower court on January 10 and his opinion be taken into account.
 
