PUNE: A special court in the city will hear the bail application of Devidas Sajnani, prime accused in the multi-crore rupees Temple Rose land fraud case, and the anticipatory bail pleas of his wife Vanita and daughter Deepa on Monday. 

 On August 11, special judge (MPID Act) J T Utpat had rejected Sajnani’s previous bail plea that was moved on the grounds that the police did not file a charge sheet within 60 days. The court had then held that the police had a 90-day period to file the charge sheet. Sajnani was arrested on May 25.
 
 Inspector Rajesh   of Pune crime branch’s economic offences wing (EOW) told TOI, "We have filed the charge sheet on August 19." The impending hearing of Sajnani’s plea is for a regular bail after arrest. 
 
 On September 14, Justice A S Gadkari of the   had passed an order requesting the special court in Pune to decide Vanita and Deepa’s anticipatory bail pleas on September 18 or as early as possible. 
 
 Puranik confirmed, "As per the HC’s directives, Vanita and Deepa reported to the EOW here on Saturday. The HC is also likely to hear an appeal by co-accused and estate agent Mustafa Rampurwala against the Pune court’s order of August 14 rejecting his regular bail plea." 
 
 The case has drawn public attention owing to the vast number of unsuspecting investors including scientists, armed forces personnel and well-to-do people alleged to have been duped by the Temple Rose   Private Limited, headed by Sajnani, and its real estate agents in the name of lucrative plotting and bungalow schemes and investment offers.
 
 Apart from Sajnani, three directors of the company, a person in-charge of the Pune office and a real estate agent have been arrested and several estate agents are being questioned. A Mumbai-based forensic auditor has been hired to establish the money trail. "A proposal to attach 138 acre benami land has also been forwarded to the I-T department," Puranik said. 
 
 Special public prosecutor Sunil Hande said, "The special court rejected Pune office in-charge Sunil Gazi’s bail plea on September 16. Apart from Vanita and Deepa, the anticipatory bail pleas of two more suspects is due for hearing on September 19 and regular bail pleas of arrested directors   and Ramesh Aghicha are to be heard on September 20 and 25, respectively, while the pre-arrest bail pleas of five more suspects has been posted for hearing on October 7."
 
