NEW DELHI: Puranmasi Yadav spent Rs 1,000 on a CT scan, Rs 200 on ultrasound, Rs 130 on blood tests, and Rs 60 on snacks on Monday. The 46-year-old, who is getting treated for a swollen lymph node at  , said he was keeping track of every   spent and is stressed over how much the treatment will finally cost him. “I have a family to feed,” said Yadav, who works in a rubber company in Faridabad.

 Yadav is not alone. A study conducted by AIIMS showed that most patients visiting the hospital, whether they were from the lower or middle class, were concerned about their out-of-pocket expenditure, which is high even in public hospitals. Patients often end up spending over Rs 50,000 on treatment, transport and other miscellaneous needs. “For the lower socioeconomic class, access to any form of   is difficult. Our research shows that even the middle and upper classes are finding healthcare to be expensive and at times beyond their means,” Dr Anoop Saraya, who led the study, told TOI. It has been published in the latest issue of National Medical Journal of India (NMJI).
 
 Dr Saraya, head of the gastroenterology department at AIIMS, said they interviewed 374 inpatients and outpatients being treated in the general wards of AIIMS and its outreach centre in Ballabgarh to understand the economic and social impact of out-of-pocket expenditure in public hospitals. “As many as 66% of the patients coming from urban areas had jobs before they fell ill, but 42% of them lost their jobs after that,” Dr Saraya said. He added that there was a significant decrease in the mean number of earning members in every family after the illness.
 
 Several patients said they had to cut down expenses on food and education of children, and had to borrow money from friends. “One of the reasons for a rise in the cost of treatment is that consumables such as medicines are often not available and need to be purchased. Also, patients often prefer to get tests done at private diagnostic centres so that they don’t have to wait for long. There is also a tendency of over-investigating patients and practising ‘defensive’ medicine,” the study said.
 
 Vikas Bajpai, who teaches at School of Social Sciences in JNU, said growth of healthcare markets and user charges have added to the burden of the out-of-pocket expenditure. “In India, one major illness in the family shatters its financial and social status. Boosting expenditure on public health is the only solution to deal with this impending crisis,” he added.
 
 Dr G K Rath, chief of the cancer centre at AIIMS, said at least 15% patients who do not fall under BPL category seek free medicines under discretionary quota because they cannot afford them. “Chronic illness or those requiring long-term care affects not just the poor but even the well-to-do families”. 
 
 70-year-old Surinder Singh from Mira Bagh said, “Private hospitals have emerged as major players but they are not affordable”.
 
 
