THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With summer vacations about to end in two weeks, authorities at government schools are busy arranging   connection to ready amenities for the   (MDM) scheme.The state government has directed   to make arrangements to install   before   in June.

 While, some schools have already acquired LPG connections, many others still use firewood for cooking meals. Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School, Pattom and Government Model Higher Secondary School for Boys, Chalai had secured LPG connections over two years ago.
 
 “The gas stove for LPG was bought last year, but we are yet to apply for the gas connection. A meeting with PTA members will be held to arrange funds for the gas connection,“ said  , headmistress of Government Central School, Attakulangara.
 
 Also, there were schools using alternative options such as a biogas plant along with firewood. The meals at Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud, use this method to prepare meals.They had installed a biogas plant two years ago.
 
 “We have reduced the use of firewood. Only when there is shortage of biogas, then food is prepared using firewood. We are renovating the kitchen to install the LPG connection. A PTA meeting regarding this was held at school and all have extended their support,“ said Shajee MP, principal.
 
 According to an official from the general education department, an amount of Rs 5,000 (for stove) is allotted to each school and the amount for the cooking gas cylinder has to be arranged by school authorities in association with PTA. Some schools have reported that the amount will not be sufficient if the schools have many students.
 
 “Considering the number of students studying at school, a gas cylinder for a day will not be enough to prepare food. There are more than thousands of students in our school. When we inquired at the DPI's office, we were told that our school is not included in the list of institutions that were allotted funds for LPG connection,“ said Rajasree J, headmistress of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill.
 
