GURUGRAM: Traffic congestion, delayed construction projects and the defunct Bandhwari waste treatment plant are responsible for rising pollution in Gurgaon, according to the   (CPCB). A team from CPCB inspected the city last month and has prepared a report on factors leading to air pollution.

 Gurgaon in general has a very high density of cars on its road and is notorious for traffic bottlenecks. And, according to the CPCB report, toxic fumes from vehicles is polluting the city’s air to a large extent. Digging work at construction sites has also increased dust emission, worsening the city’s overall air quality, its says. Waste burning in the open is equally responsible for the rising pollution levels.
 
 “Traffic management is definitely not in place in Gurgaon. More traffic congestion on roads leads to a direct exposure to pollutants, especially   and PM10 in the lower atmosphere. For instance, it has been found out that areas located around the national highway, which generally remains congested during peak hours, are the most polluted in the city,” a senior CPCB official told TOI on Saturday.
 
 He added, “Also delay in construction projects lead to prolonged exposure to dust. Another factor is waste burning in the open, which despite directions from the National Green Tribunal remains unchecked in the city.”
 
 Expressing concern over waste management, the official said, “We visited the Bandhwari waste treatment plant. It is in a very bad shape as waste hasn’t been managed for the last three years and causing severe water and air pollution. It will become another Okhla of Delhi if left like this for some more time. We have recommended the waste-to-energy model at the plant.”
 
 Last year, CPCB had instructed pollution control boards in the   region to prepare an action plan to control rising air pollution. Haryana State Pollution Control Board had, in May 2016, urged all civic bodies to work on a time-bound action plan to cut air pollution in the city.   also rolled out the agenda to control dust pollution within 90 days last year and instructed pollution control boards to device time-bound implementation of measures to control dust pollution. However, civic agencies reportedly haven’t submitted any report yet.
 
 
