MUMBAI: A 20-year-old woman got justice as the sessions court recently sentenced her 49-year-old father to 10 years'   for raping her for eight years.

 The accused, who also raped his younger daughter, was additionally convicted under the   Justice Act for assaulting and neglecting his children. “He raped the victim repeatedly and threatened her. He has taken advantage of her multiple vulnerabilities tender age, no mother, younger siblings and lack of support,“ the court observed.
 
 The younger sister, also a minor when the incident was reported to cops in 2012 also , alleged that he had sexually assaulted her and her sister. She turned hostile in court. The court pointed to the sisters' current circumstances. While the older sister lived in a shelter home in the city, the younger one now is with her paternal uncle and aunt in another city.
 
 “It is evident that her younger sister was under the influence and pressure of relatives of the accused. She was a minor then and continues to be one till date. She is only 16 and is completely dependent on her father's relatives. The elder daughter was able to depose freely as she no longer resides with them,“ the court said.
 
 The court relied on the victim's testimony, social workers who helped her lodge a complaint, cop and doctors. It denied the claim that she had falsely implicated her father after he opposed her relationship with another man. “The defence failed to discharge its burden and prove as to why she would fal sely implicate the accused, who is her own father,“ the court said.
 
 The older victim told court that she lived with her father and two younger siblings in   after their mother died in 2004. She said he had made them sleep with him. She said in 2005, when she was eight, her father began to touch her inappropriately. She said he first raped her in 2009 and threatened her and her siblings. She said she could not run away as she feared that in her absence he would sexually assault her younger sister.
 
