Naasir Khan, arrested from Delhi recently, was working for his  , known in crime circles as  , who runs a   in the country.

 The mother-in-law is the ruling figure in many Indian families and this one is no exception. Investigations into the crime of Naasir Khan alias Samir Ali, one of the country’s top chain snatchers, has revealed that his mother-in-law, known as Mama, controls the entire operation.
 
 Khan, 36, a resident of Ambivali in Thane district, was arrested in Delhi and brought to the city a few days ago. He is part of a network of criminals across the country which targets gullible women by posing as policemen and conning them into parting with their gold ornaments, and replacing them with fake ones. Investigations have now revealed that his mother-in-law controls the nationwide chain snatching business.   Ravindra Doifode of anti chain snatching unit (Thane) said, “Khan’s mother-in-law is the main accused in the case and we will be nabbing her soon.”
 
 Not only does she control the crime network but also relationships within the family. Police sources said that Khan would marry off her daughter to men who could run her operations. If they got arrested, she would find another husband for her daughter. Khan is her third husband. The previous two husbands are behind bars.
 
 Cops said that Khan owns two palatial bungalows in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, two flats and six acres of land in Titwala and property near Aamby Valley. He also has a fleet of cars and seven iPhones. He also allegedly told cops that no one has ever cooked food in his house. All the meals come from restaurants. But Khan has also claimed that all these properties are in his motherin-law’s name.
 
 Thane crime branch officers claim that Khan is a drug addict and Mama funds his drug habit by giving him Rs 2,000 per day. She booked air tickets daily to various states, where Khan went to collect the booty. He then flew back to Delhi to sell the gold. He would hand over the money to Mama and she would give him the cash for his drugs.
 
 Nasir was first arrested in 2014 by Thane police but after being released on bail, he shifted to Delhi, from where he had been running the gang, most of whose members are of Iranian descent. He has set up a network of snatchers and conmen in every city. They live along the railway tracks and operate in a given area. Once in a week, they would meet Khan with their report card and the loot. Khan was known to be generous with his team of petty theieves.
 
 “His network spanned cities like Bangalore, Kolkata, Delhi, Hyderabad and Chennai, besides cities in Maharashtra like Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai. Till now, 40 cases of theft have been registered against Khan and his gang in Thane alone,” said a police source. Cops also have information of Khan conning people in Dubai and stealing diamonds from there.
 
 Senior police inspector Nitin Thackeray of Unit I, Thane Crime Branch, said that Khan would be booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). He added that they were co-ordinating with police from other states to bust the crime network.
 
