Navi Mumbai: The civic body has completed the assessment exercise of rateable value of properties under its jurisdiction for the next fiscal. The ward assessment books for 2017-18, done as as per the taxation rules, has been put up on   domain to maintain transparency.

 The assessment includes a complete record of properties, their value and taxation structure. 
 
 The ward assessment books will be available for public inspection at the respective ward offices from Belapur to Digha on all working days between 11am and 5pm from February 10 to March 3. 
 
 Any objections against the set rateable values and taxation will be entertained in writing till March 3. The record will have around 3.07 lakh properties for which assessment has been done.
 
 “It’s a ready reckoner for the fiscal year 2017-18 which will come into effect from April 1.   holders are invited to check the ward assessment books at their respective ward offices. This is a transparent method to allow residents to cross-check their property details and tax evaluation based on the latest physical status of the properties. Tax has been calculated on rateable value,” said Umesh Wagh, deputy municipal commissioner. 
 
 The valuation has been done as per taxation rules appended to the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act. 
 
 The exercise to find ratable value has been completed as far as practicable in the ward assessment books for the year 2017-18, said civic chief Tukaram Mundhe. 
 
 As per taxation rules, any complaints against ratable values entered in the books will be received in the ward offices within the stipulated period, added Mundhe. 
 
 In case of any possible irregularities of the valuation or other aspects of the assessments, complaints must be filed in writing for each of the concerned property separately by the property owners or by persons duly authorized by them under a power of attorney, informed a senior civic official.
 
 The complaints must be submitted with a statement giving detailed breakups of the rent statements, if any portion or floor or several floors of the property has been let out. Complaints, which do not fulfill these conditions, will not be considered, added the official. 
 
  “The civic chief will not be held responsible for the non- receipt of any complaints unless the parties complaining produce proper acknowledgement from the ward offices concerned,” said Wagh. 
 
 If anyone forwards such complaints by post, he will be doing so at his own risk. The amendment, if any, to the rateable value made after hearing of the complaint will be effective from April 1, 2017 only and in retrospective manner, he added. 
 
 The ward assessment books will be available for public inspection at the respective ward offices from Belapur to Digha on all working days between 11am and 5pm from February 10 to March 3.Any objections against the set rateable values and taxation will be entertained in writing till March 3. The record includes around 3.07 lakh properties for which assessment has been done. Anyone forwarding such complaints by post, will be doing so at his own risk
