RANCHI: In absence of the 'wall' since 2011, the 'fence' continues to do the job for Team India.  , who modelled his game on the legendary  , once again stood firm to repel Australia's onslaught and put India on equal footing at the   here on Saturday.

 In reply to Australia's first innings tally of 451, India progressed to 360 for 6 at close on the third day of the penultimate Test. With India just 91 runs behind with four wickets standing, the teams are more or less on an even keel on first innings. The outcome of the match hinges on how the world's top two Test sides perform on the last two days.
 
 On a benign surface which demanded a lot of grit and gumption on the part of batsmen to succeed, Pujara rated an 'A+' as he fused technique and temperament to hold the Indian innings together. The Saurashtra right-hander, who was unbeaten on 10 overnight, not only went on to log his 11th Test century but also defied the Australian attack all day to remain unbeaten on 130.
 
 Pujara, who had contributed an invaluable 92 in India's second innings in Bengaluru, was not to be denied a three-figure mark this time. A fluent cover-driven four off Pat Cummins, who was easily Australia's best bowler of the day, brought Pujara his fourth century of India's long home season.
 
 Pujara, who has so far batted a shade under seven hours, had an lbw decision off Steve O'Keefe reviewed in his favour while facing 328 deliveries. Much like what Steve Smith had done for Australia, the India No. 3 shared vital partnerships down the order to help India inch closer to the visitors' tally.
 
 Pujara (on 10 overnight) and Vijay (42 overnight) started the day positively. Vijay, who surprised all by jumping out of his crease in the second over of the day to hit O'Keefe for a six over long-on, then stole a single to reach 50 in his 50th Test.
 
 The Pujara-Vijay show was the highlight of the morning session which produced 73 runs off 30.4 overs. Their partnership was worth 102 runs and both batsmen looked set for the lunch break when the latter had a 'brain fade'. It prompted Vijay to charge down the pitch to O'Keeffe with just three balls remaining before the break. The leftarm spinner, operating from over the wicket, beat his man and   effected a smart stumping to end Vijay's nearly five-hour vigil at the crease. He made 82.
 
 In walked   after lunch, and in spite of not showing any discomfort on his injured shoulder, he was clearly not in his zone. The 37-minute outing, in course of which he was mocked by   about his injury, ended when he went after a wide half-volley from Cummins without moving his feet, only to be gobbled up by Smith at second slip.
 
 It was Kohli's fifth failure (0, 13; 12, 15; 6) in as many innings in a series which Smith continues to dominate with the bat. The rest of the batting was a tale of missed opportunities.   was guilty of poking his bat at a Cummins bouncer in the guise of playing the upper cut and perished, while Karun Nair was beaten for pace as Josh Hazlewood sent one through the gate like an express train to shatter the stumps. Even Ashwin hung around for a while before becoming Cummins' fourth victim, leaving Wriddhiman Saha (batting 18) to keep Pujara company.
 
 With the pitch still playing true, and no alarms in terms of turn and bounce, the odds are heavily tilted towards a draw. However, keeping in mind that both India and Australia have previously collapsed in less than two sessions, a decisive result cannot be ruled out altogether. 
 
