NEW DELHI: The   decided on Friday to remove the cap of 10  , a move that could bring some relief to flat owners and tenants and also boost the water utility’s revenues.

 A 2012   regulation limited connections to six per single building. This, said an official, was done to ensure that a pipeline would not be perforated multiple times at any one point. After AAP came to power, this cap was increased to 10. It has now been removed entirely.
 
 “Having removed the cap, not only will all residents get a valid connection, DJB’s revenue will also increase. There are several buildings that have more than 10 flats. In such cases, DJB would either not give a connection to the additional flats or not give a connection at all to the entire building since it could not be determined who to give the connection to. However, all these flats were still getting their water from somewhere. All we are doing is regularising these connections,” an official said.
 
 The move will also help tenants who otherwise are made to pay vague charges by landlords on the pretext that a separate meter cannot be provided for them. “Once all connections are metered, consumers will also be able to enjoy the water subsidy the Delhi Government offers,” said the official.
 
 Delhi has about 24 lakh connections, domestic and commercial. The removal of the cap will add 1 to 1.15 lakh connections to the system. The official said DJB would launch a drive to inform consumers not to buy flats in buildings that do not have an underground reservoir. “For new buildings, this is a mandatory norm. For existing buildings, or where UGRs are not possible, we will take out one pipe from the main line through which multiple connections can be given. In this way, the main pipe will not be affected,” he added.
 
 DJB has also cleared a proposal to set up 93 decentralised sewage treatment plants. In addition, 93 water bodies, which have sewage flowing into them, will be revived by the irrigation and flood control department with technical support from DJB.
 
 The government is also looking at generating electricity from its STPs and water treatment plants. An administrative sanction of Rs 10.49 crore has been accorded to set up hydro power projects that will generate 397 kilowatts of power daily. Sources said possible locations for this project were the Chandrawal water treatment plant and a couple of STPs.
 
 DJB has also approved Rs 222 crore for a water audit through installation of flow meters. New water and sewer lines will also be laid in several colonies.
 
