NEW DELHI: There was a scare at IGI Airport after one of the engines of a GoAir A-320 (neo) developed a major snag and failed soon after takeoff. Delhi Police said it got calls from three Dwarka residents around 7.35pm, all of them saying they had seen flames and heard unusual sounds from the engine of an aircraft that had just taken off.
The Bangalore-bound  , with 193 people on board, returned to IGI and landed safely, but not before plenty of drama.
 
 Police say they informed the Central Industrial Security Force, who in turn alerted the air traffic control.Preparing for the worst, DCP southwest Surender Singh alerted police stations around the airport to prepare for any eventuality near the Ghoyla Dairy area ­ where the aircraft was headed.
 
 Some passengers on board the G8 557 flight also saw fire in the engine and reported it to the cabin crew. “I saw a big fire on one of the engines. It lasted about 30 seconds, and then it was put off,“ said Saurabh Tandon, who was on this plane.
 
 While this scare was unfolding, the GoAir pilot also got a signal in the cockpit that one engine was failing.“We got a message from the pilot about an engine failure and that he wanted to return to Delhi at the earliest. We gave priority landing to the plane and kept emergency vehicles like fire brigades and ambulances along the runway where it was cleared to land. Luckily, the plane landed safely after remaining airborne for 15 minutes,“ said a senior air traffic control official.
 
 All passengers were then safely evacuated from the aircraft. Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) chief B S Bhullar said this incident is being probed. A GoAir spokesman said: “Flight G8 557 Delhi-Ban galore had an emergency landing at Delhi airport at 7.53pm on Wednesday due to technical reasons. There were a total of 187 passengers on board and the flight landed safely. The passengers were then accommodated in a subsequent flight.“
 
 The Airbus A-320 (neo) had a Pratt & Whitney (P&W) engine which is leading to scares on the ground as well as in the air. The failure of these engines after a bout of fire and sound, and the aircraft returning to make emergency landings, are becoming increasingly common. The trouble with P&W engines in the A-320 neo ­ currently used by IndiGo and GoAir with Air India also planning to induct them ­ is showing no signs of ending. In the second half of January , an IndiGo A-320 neo had failed while accelerating for take off from Mumbai to Delhi.This aircraft was still on ground and picking up speed when the right engine emitted a loud bang and sparks.
 
 IndiGo and GoAir have taken up the issue with P&W . P&W has also witnessed problems like slow engine startup times and erroneous engine software messages in the new engine.This had led to a delay in delivery of the neo to customer airlines.
 
 
