Gurgaon: A one-and-a-half-year-old Indian striped hyena was found dead on Saturday morning in Mandawar village near Sohna.

 A team from the district wildlife department immediately reached the spot and took the carcass for autopsy. Both fore limbs of the hyena were damaged and injury marks were seen on its ears and nose. 
 
 “Around 5 am we saw a body of a strange animal lying on the road. The animal was bleeding from its mouth. Its limbs were broken. As the carcass had stripes, we mistook it for a cub. However, the wildlife department identified it as a hyena,” said Uday Dayal Singh, a passer-by. Even though the cause of death is yet to be ascertained, it is suspected that the animal was killed in a road accident. Last November, a leopard was killed by a mob in the same village.
 
 “It is suspected to be a road accident. But we can’t say anything before the autopsy report is out. The accident is indicative of the growing presence of wildlife in the Aravalis. Not only leopards, but the entire food chain can now be spotted in the Aravalis,” MD Sinha, Conservator of Forest, Gurgaon Circle told TOI.
 
 Sinha added that such incidents can be prevented with help of a proper wildlife management plan. “It is high time we have a proper wildlife management plan in place. It is also important to limit the human-animal conflict in this region. Even though we are training our staff to handle wildlife in a better manner, there is a need to have a proper plan in this regard. It is also significant to carry out a thorough study on wildlife in the area,” he said.
 
 Environmentalists criticised the forest department for the lack of reflective signage in the area to prevent accidents of wild animals.
 
 “Wild animals come out of forest in search of water and food as the ecosystem has been destroyed within the forest. The easiest and most economical way is to put up reflective signage indicating wild animal crossing area and rumble strip to control speed of the vehicles crossing the area. However, the forest department is the most inefficient department and they lack the will of doing anything to protect wildlife in the area,” said Amit Chaudhery of People For Animals.
 
 
