Chandigarh: The shocking murder of a seven-year-old student in a toilet of Ryan International School in Gurgaon has prompted the police to direct the UT administration to provide details of all staff members, including peons and drivers, for verification.

 UT SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale held a meeting with Rupinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, UT, at the police headquarters in Sector 9 from 3pm to 4.15pm on Tuesday. “We told the director to collect details of all staff members of the schools. All of them will be verified,” the SSP said. She further said a general form for verification of staff has been given to officials to distribute in the schools. The schools have been told to fill up the details and submit the forms in their respective police stations before September 30.
 
 The police have also decided to enhance patrolling of PCR (police control room) vehicles outside schools, especially during the morning and afternoon, when students come and leave.
 
 The city has a total of 114 government and 71 private schools. The UT administration has already issued an advisory to schools regarding the safety of students and directed its strict compliance.
 
 The administration, in the advisory, has stated that school principal, and management of private school will responsible for the safety and security of the students from the time of their arrival and till the time students leave the premises. The advisory also mentioned when schoolchildren are transported by buses owned by a school or by an independent contractor, the school management will be responsible in case of a mishap. It further said that CCTV cameras should be installed at all important spots like rest rooms, entry gates and boundary walls on the school premises. Entry in the school in respect of persons other than students, teachers and non-teaching staff /personnel must be regulated so as to ensure that no unauthorized person is able to enter school premises during the school hours.
 
 According to the advisory, that management of school should ensure that drivers, conductors and other support staff are not given unrestricted access during school hours and importantly, in primary wing, only women staff, should be deployed for duties.
 
 Puneet Vaid, a parent of a student at Ryan school in Sector 49, said around 100 parents on Monday submitted a letter to the principal regarding the steps taken by the authorities after the Gurgaon incident. Parents will meet the school principal again on this matter on Saturday, he said.
 
 UT’s advisory to schools
 
 1 School principal and management of the private school will be responsible for safety and security of students
 
 2 CCTV cameras should be installed near rest rooms, entry gates and boundary walls on school premises
 
 3 School management to get antecedents and character of all drivers, conductors, helpers, attendants, sweepers, gardeners and other staff verified from the police department before September 30
 
 4 School management to ensure that no unauthorized person is able to enter school premises during school hours
 
 5 In primary wing of school, only women staff should be deployed for duties
 
 6 Schools must ensure they have properly built boundary walls of adequate height in order to pre-empt entry of any unauthorized persons
 
 7 Drivers, conductors, peons, gardeners, watchmen and other support staff shall not be allowed to use toilets meant for students, provide them separate toilets
 
 8 Organise counselling sessions for drivers, conductors, peons, gardeners, watchmen and other support staff for their sensitization about safety and security of children.
 
 9 Consultative process shall also be initiated with the parents in connection with safety and security of the wards
 
 
