CHENNAI: Signs are always easy communicators. It is more so with colours, as they carry their own connotations. Using   one can get a clear idea about the condition of a forest   or a wetland.

 The Centre for Biodiversity Policy and Law (CEBPOL), a joint initiative between National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) and the Norwegian government, is now developing colour coding for understanding the health of   ( ) in   and   in  .
 
 Sharing details about CEBPOL with TOI, NBA chairperson B Meenakumari said the centre started functioning in 2014. Access and benefit sharing, mainstreaming biodiversity, invasive alien species, biosafety and nature index are the key areas in which collaborative work is happening, she said.
 
 For example the colour coding is part of the nature index, which will give a clear picture of the condition of a particular forest ecosystem or a wetland. On a pilot basis, the two sites have been identified to do the color coding.
 
 NBA secretary T Rabi Kumar said while 15 fish species have been identified in Chilika, 14 species of mammals and birds have been identified in GHNP. Using the data from the respective department officials, the colour coding for the two places will be done with 0 to 2. 
 
 The zero indicated the ecosystem is in good condition and 2 indicated very bad condition of the ecosystem. The effort will help the policy makers and the forest department create a suitable working plan for the protection and improvement of habitat or wetland, he said.
 
 Talking about studying the mammals in the GHNP, Rabi Kumar said the park has been divided in to three ranges – Jeenewal, Sainj and Theerthan. In the same manner the Chilika Lake has been divided into southern sector, northern sector, central sector, outer channel and islands. 
 
 Data collected by the local forest officials and the lake authority is being used by the CEBPOL to make the colour coding, he said.
 
 The work in the five key areas are happening for the last one year on a pilot basis. Once the data collating work is completed, it will be sent to the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change. Then the ministry will decide on introducing the new system in other forest areas in the country, he said.
 
 Work on invasive alien species is also nearing completion, which is expected to be submitted before the end of March next year. As far as access and benefit sharing is concerned, NBA has formulated a system, which is said to be a pioneering effort across the world. The Norway government wants to learn this system from the NBA, Rabi Kumar said.
 
 Originally the NBA and the Norwegian government identified the priority areas of cooperation and listed 10 thematic areas that CEBPOL can work initially. But, later on, it was brought down to six thematic areas, which is being continued now, Rabi Kumar said.
 
 
