NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday told the   that it could not be held responsible for growing number of incidents of people resorting to mob violence in the name of   and it was for the state governments to take actions against “Gau Rakshak Dals” which took law into their hands.

 Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar told a bench of Justices  , A M Khanwilkar and M M Shantanagoudar that the Centre had no role to play in controlling such incidents as law and order was a state subject. He said the Centre is against all kind of vigilantism by private persons.
 
 “It is the state government which has to take action in such cases. Law and order comes within the state domain and Centre has no role to play.   is of the view that no vigilante group has any space in the country as per procedures of law and it does not support any kind of vigilantism,” the solicitor general told the bench.
 
 The Centre was responding to a PIL seeking court’s direction to ban cow vigilante groups which were allegedly being protected by state governments. The petition, filed by Congress leader Tehseen Poonawala, alleged that “Gau Rakshak Dals” were spreading violence and committing atrocities against dalits and people from minority communities and pleaded the court to direct the governments to take action against them.
 
 Poonawala approached the apex court challenging constitutional validity of section 12 of the Gujarat Animal Prevention Act, 1954, Section 13 of Maharashtra Animal Prevention Act, 1976, and Section 15 of   Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, which provided for protection of persons acting in good faith under the Act or rules.
 
 “The petitioner humbly submits that the menace caused by the so called cow protection groups is spreading fast to every nook and corner of the Country and is creating disharmony among various communities. These vigilantes groups are operating beyond the realm of law and are known to take law in their hands,” the petition said.
 
 He alleged that police and other law enforcement agencies remained mute spectators and culprits were not brought to book in such cases. “The actions of cow protection groups infringe the personal liberty of the victim. The actions of public flogging, urinating on the victim, forcing them to eat cow dung takes away the victims right to life and personal liberty and the court should intervene to protect people from such groups,” the petition said.
 
 The court had earlier issued notice to Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Jharkhand and sought their explanation on incidents of people being killed and harassed by cow vigilante groups.
 
 Refuting the allegation that police are not taking action against  , Jharkhand and Gujarat governments told the court that people had been booked in those cases and criminal proceedings were initiated against them. They, however, sought more time to file their comprehensive response.
 
 Congress-led Karnataka government had earlier defended its law granting protection to ‘Gau Rakshaks’ for prevention of cow slaughter in the state and pleaded the court to dismiss a PIL challenging constitutional validity of the law.
 
