PANAJI: Two days after he lashed out at the presence of   and migrants along the beach belt, tourism minister   on Wednesday issued an order to crackdown on migrant hawkers and beggars along the tourist areas as they did not conform to ‘Goenkarponn’ (  ethos and culture).

 “If the Lamanis do legal work, we have no problem, but they must adhere to Goan culture and identity. If they are not doing so, if they resort to illegal work, we won’t keep quiet. We will chase them away,”   said after chairing a meeting with North Goa SP Kartik Kashyap and senior tourism department officials. He added that migrant hawkers and beggars also harassed foreigners and domestic tourists creating a bad impression.
 
 “It sends a bad message. We have a team for tourism security that is there to take action against them. We have sent instructions today to their area supervisors, deputy directors and to the police. I have told them to start area-wise patrolling and take action, failing which the area supervisor concerned will be suspended. We are ready to remove them from their job,” Azgaonkar said.
 
 Police officials pointed out that in 2016, 1,200 Lamanis were rounded up and produced in court. The hawkers and beggars were allowed to return to the beaches due to lack of action and loopholes in the law. Further, around 800 cases in which Lamanis were booked were sent to the tourism department for punitive action, but to no effect.
 
 During the meeting, the police department asked for four vehicles to patrol all the beaches. “IPC Section 34, which is currently restricted to towns, must be extended to beaches. The government must come out with a notification on this,” a police official said.
 
 The tourism department is also looking at strengthening existing rules and revising fines imposed on beggars and illegal hawkers. Suggesting that hawkers hide in shacks during raids Azgaonkar said, “Shack operators and staff would be provided with identity cards.”
 
 “The reserve battalion should keep a close watch on drug peddling and inform the police, who in turn, must take action. If they don’t, I will raise the issue with CM and I am sure he is ready to support this,” Azgaonkar said.
 
