GREATER NOIDA: A 35-year old alleged contract killer was arrested in a joint operation by Special Task Force (STF) and city police on Saturday night from Knowledge Park area in Greater Noida. He was plotting to kill a Kanpur-based hotelier, said police.

 The accused, Vijay Nagar, a resident of  , is a member of   gang. 
 
 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP, Noida-STF, said that Nagar had got a contract from the Sunder Bhati gang to kill the businessman. The accused shared information with a relative and sharpshooter, Ravi, of Rupwas village. “Both of them had received advance payment of Rs 12 lakh,” Mishra said. 
 
 Police said Ravi hired eight criminals – Manish Khari, of Phase 2 Noida, Sanjay Kumar of Khedi Bhanauta village, Chainpal Gurjar and Hareram of Dilabas in Gurgaon, Ashok Kumar, Chaman Prakash, Vijendra Kumar and   of Fatehpur Beri in Delhi. “These criminals were also paid Rs 5 lakh for the work,” an official informed. 
 
 Nagar helped the gang members conduct recee in Kanpur and Noida. He also shared the businessman’s car details with the sharpshooters. However, the police officials received information about the alleged plot and swung into action. The information was also shared with Delhi police.
 
 On April 29, Delhi police conducted a raid and arrested the eight hired criminals in   area. These criminals revealed the details about Ravi and Nagar, said police.
 
 The police beefed up its searches upon which Ravi surrendered in Ghaziabad district a few days ago. A session’s court sentenced him to life-imprisonment in a murder case.
 
 Meanwhile, Nagar was still at large. Mishra said that the police team received information that Nagar was in Knowledge Park. “The teams of STF and city police jointly conducted a raid and arrested him from the spot. We found a country-made pistol and a live cartridge from his possession,” Mishra said.
 
 Police said they are investigating Nagar’s criminal records. Primary investigation revealed that cases of attempt to murder, abduction and vehicle theft have been registered against him in Kasna and Vasant Kunj Police Station. “He will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said police. 
 
 
