NAGPUR: It may be a well orchestrated scam or a classic case of ‘slipping through the gaps’, but the fact is that the state education board is looking at a  . Students not eligible to take Maths subject in Std XII have not only secured admission, but also appeared for board exams this summer.

 Sanjay Ganorkar, chairman of Nagpur divisional board, said “These students appeared for   (easy version) in Std X and as such they cannot opt for Maths in Std XII. But we have found such cases from rural areas in Nagpur. We are calling the principals, from other districts too, tomorrow to understand how big a problem this is statistically.”
 
 So far, the board office has detected 92 such cases and sent notices to the principals of their junior colleges. Ganorkar said, “A hearing was held today by my officials with principals and I believe that 20 or 25 of them have provided satisfactory answers and shown proof that the kids are eligible. Hearing will continue tomorrow, but I am convinced that we will have around 60 students that are ineligible.”
 
 The two major concerns this raises is whether this was an organized scam going on for years, or just a few stray cases. Many students may have already got into engineering colleges, since General Maths subject was introduced in 2008, but the numbers would have compounded by now. Also, it is to be seen what happens to such students now that they have already given the board exams.
 
 Ganorkar said, “The incident seems to be a stray one because it was noticed in different colleges, with hardly two cases coming from a single college. Regarding what happens to these students, I think a decision will have to be taken at the state level. At our level, as we interpret the rules, these students will fail because they are ineligible to take the Maths subject. We will send a report to the board office and they will take a final decision.”
 
 Sources say similar cases have been found in some other divisions as well, hence the final decision will have to be taken at the highest level.  , divisional board chairman (Latur), said “We have found around 20 such cases. It’s a clear mischief by colleges to increase admissions without verifying documents.”
 
 In   division too, 80 cases have been found, said board officials.
 
