LUCKNOW: Differences among step-family members led to gruesome murder of a 39-year-old woman in Viram Khand II locality of   on Thursday. A man in mid-30s bludgeoned his step-mother with a hammer.  , who is recuperating at  's trauma centre stopped only after he was shot twice in the abdomen. 

 Residence of Ram Chandra Mishra, where the murder took place is located on the road connecting   crossing with Gwari crossing. Police were trying to ascertain the exact motive behind the crime and whether division of property was the trigger. 
 
 After retiring from secretariat in 2012, Mishra worked as officer on special duty for former speaker   till March 30 this year. His name had cropped up in a job fraud case in 2013. Police said he was in the secretariat on Thursday when the incident took place.
 
 Mishra has two sons from his first wife Gayatri Devi who died more than two decades back. The elder son Vinod works as private accountant in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh while younger son Manoj (33) is an IRS officer of 2010 batch posted in Mumbai as deputy director of income tax investigations. In 1996 Mishra got remarried, to Sunita, who was much younger to him. Mishra's third child is 19-year-old Antara. She passed out of CMS Gomtinagar last year.
 
 According to police, Vinod arrived from Jabalpur on Thursday and reached his house at 1.15pm. Vinod and Manoj preferred to remain aloof from the step-mother and sister but they all stayed in the Viram Khand house whenever he and Manoj were in the city. On Thursday , Vinod reportedly had an argument with Sunita and attacked her. Vishal Yadav, a close aide of the family was present when Vinod arrived.
 
 As Vinod hammered Sunita, Vishal allegedly fired multiple shots at Vinod with his li censed revolver. The forensic team which examined the spot recovered three bullet pellets from the house. Apart from the 3,200 sqft house in Viram Khand, Mishra had also set up a private school in Takrohi (SS modern public school) besides owning agricultural land in Jeruwa village in Barabanki district.
 
 Late on Thursday , an FIR was registered at Mishra's behest who maintained his wife was bludgeoned to death while trying to stop Vinod and Vishal from fighting.
 
 DIG Praveen Kumar said motive was being ascertained. “We have different versions from Vinod, Vishal and Antara. Call detail records are being examined to find out who is misleading us,“ he said.
 
