NAGPUR: Call it a   effect or strategy to avoid  , but eight Chhattisgarh-based   were caught operating in   during a   on Friday at a posh bungalow at Friend’s Colony. The city cops recovered 76 mobile phones, around 80 SIM cards, four laptops and other materials worth more than Rs1.85 lakh. The bookies were reportedly following a business strategy where the cash is either recovered as dues for losing a bet or delivered in case of a win after the match or season ends.

 It is reliably learnt that the eight persons, who were sent to police custody remand for five days by the court on Saturday, worked for one of Chhattisgarh’s biggest bookies Amit Veera, who is based in Durg. The persons; Nishant Nagwani, Ajay Chawla, Deepak Ahuja, Satbeer Bajaj, Vishal Ahuja, Hitesh Chawla, Indrakumar Chuwani and Chandan Bakhreja, had been arrested by Gittikhadan police.
 
 An offence was registered at Gittikhadan police station under Maharashtra Gambling Act and also cheating and forgery under Indian Penal Code. The city police are now set to visit Durg, Chhattisgarh, for further investigations. The bookies were accepting bets on a T20 match of   in Australia when the raid took place.
 
 It’s learnt that the racketeers had a special hotline phone, which has been seized, which enabled them to remain ahead of the ‘live’ streaming on television by a minute or so, which would keep them ahead of the punters, paving the way for substantial gains.
 
 The raid was conducted by DCP Rakesh Kalasagar and ACP Somnath Waghchaure, under the supervision of city police chief K Venkatesh, following a tip-off regarding the racketeers, who had posed as construction company employees while renting the bungalow. Around a month ago, the racketeers had rented the bungalow for Rs25,000 per month after contacting the broker, identified as Daniel, via the internet. The premises is owned by someone identified only as Singh, who does not stay in Nagpur.
 
 Senior PI RD Nikam of Gittikhadan police station said the racketeers were charged with cheating and forgery charges since they had procured huge numbers of SIM cards using fake identity testimonials.
 
 
