AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has issued notice to the municipal commissioner that is returnable on March 22, following a contempt petition filed by a resident against the civic body for not taking proper steps to preserve and protect the ancient   and Nahar-e-Panchakki system in the city despite high court directions.

 While issuing the notice, the high court bench comprising of Justice S S Shinde and   also made it clear that ‘the court will pass the appropriate orders on the next date of hearing whether to initiate contempt proceedings or not against the concerned respondent (municipal commissioner)’.
 
 While taking suo motu cognizance of the pathetic condition of the 400-year-old Nahar-e-Ambari and Nahar-e-Panchakki (water mill) system in 2013, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court had issued notices to various authorities. The court had subsequently ordered formulation of a committee to give its recommendations on preservation and protectoin of the ancient aqueducts. 
 
 On November 27, 2014, the court had also issued orders to various authorities — ‘structure is to be protected, comprehensive steps will have to be taken.’ The order passed by the bench comprising Jusitce B P Dharmadhikar and Justice A M Badar had also said that ‘municipal corporation as also the state government shall coordinate with the committee members and prepare a map to the scale showing exact placement of the tunnel. The map prepared may also indicate the structures in existence upon such underground tunnel. Till this exercise is completed and thereafter estimate of the funds required is worked out, the structure as it exists today also needs protection.’
 
 “The court had ordered ‘the municipal corporation as also state government shall have to see that no new structures come up on underground tunnels or their exposed parts and for that purpose, take action or preventive steps in accordance with law,’” said lawyer Roopa Daxini who represented the businessman who had filed the contempt petition. The court had also directed “the state government and the municipal corporation to start necessary exercise to prepare a map and place it before the high court within a period of six weeks.”
 
 However, when the civic body did not take appropriate action against illegal constructions and encroachment on the nahar system, Quazi Yousufuddin, a businessman, approached the high court through lawyer Roopa Daxini filing a contempt petition. She pointed out to the court that, on November 8, 2016 the Nahar was broken at Fazalpura area during drainage work by a contractor appointed by the   (AMC). On November 20, 2016 a part of the Nahar was damaged at Qile Ark and a few days ago the siphon of Nahar-e-Ambari was damaged in   area. The   did not take any precaution to protect the ancient aqueduct,” Daxini pointed out to the court, who issued the order on March 6.
 
