He is one of the most adored chocolate boys of small screen who has managed to strike a balance between TV and the silver screen with ease.
 
  His daily soaps like Kayamath, Kis Desh Mein Hai Meraa Dil and Kairi Rishta Khatta Meetha got   a huge fan following. Jay garnered more popularity as an anchor in   for various seasons followed by films and reality shows. This Gujarati lad, who is anchoring   currently, keeps visiting the state for various work commitments. AT caught with the actor during his recent trip to the city. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Ever since I became selective about choosing daily soaps, most people in the telly industry started thinking that I was limiting myself to either participating in reality shows or anchoring them.That's where I got labelled as an anchor. But honestly, I am an actor first. I'm open to doing fiction shows provided it has limited episodes and a good storyline.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  The Gujarati film industry has picked up very well in last few years. I am totally in love with the movie Gujjubhai The Great. It has been really well made and it's an absolute entertainer.Another movie that caught my attention was Chhello Divas. I could not watch Wrong Side Raju but, I have heard great things about it from my friends and am very happy that it received the national award. I have received a few offers from Gujarati filmmakers, but nothing interesting yet. Being a Gujarati, I would love to do my bit for the local film industry, provided there is a good team.
  
  
 
  
  Many in the industry still don't know about my connect with Gujarat. I visit my hometown Bhuj once in a year -not only to take a break but also for some family work. It makes me happy to see how the entire state is turning into a tourist-friendly place. It has been a huge transformation. Talking of Rann Utsav or Kite Festival as well as Navaratri and the way Sabarmati riverfront and Kankaria Lake in Ahmedabad have been revamped or even the cleanliness that the state boasts of -these are a few things that impress outsiders.
