BHUBANESWAR:   Prabhas Singh (BJD) stood in a queue outside an ATM to withdraw cash. Chief minister   congratulated Odia lad Sanjat Mishra for technical support in film 'Baahubali,' Union petroleum minister   felicitated a tribal for being the first girl of her community to clear the matric exam. Politicians are on overdrive to connect with the people emotionally. 

 Analysts feel one would come across such 'perception management' episodes more often because in this age of social media these are paying rich dividends. "Bargarh MP Dr Prabhas Singh standing behind me in an ATM q. Representatives should b humble like that," posted one Pranab Anurag on Facebook. He invited several comments and likes. Though Singh told TOI his standing in a queue was as usual and not to catch the eyeballs, his act went viral on social media. 
 
 Most noticeable change, however, is seen in Naveen Pattnaik after the February panchayat election. From a reticent politician, the bachelor CM is very forthcoming these days, whether in posing for selfies with people or responding to media queries and using his social media handles. This has brought a personal touch to his functioning, endearing him among the youths.
 
 BJD insiders said the conscious image makeover exercise by CM Pattnaik comes in the backdrop of saffron surge in rural elections. "Led by Modi, the BJP runs an aggressive social media campaign besides reaching out to people individually for small achievements or during distress. What Naveen is doing is to counter that," said a BJD leader. Pattnaik, who has not addressed any formal press conference in his 18 years as CM, may as well address one soon, they said.
 
 BJP's poster boy Dharmendra Pradhan is pursuing a similar emotional-connect exercise, aggressively as well. He wants to be the first man in congratulating any achiever, small or big, mourning a death or reaching out to people in distress, his social media postings show.
 
 Earlier industrialist-MP Baijayant Panda was seen as the only politician from Odisha to have mastered the art of reaching out to his constituents and publicising those in social media. Now, there are many.
 
 Anup Dash, a former sociology professor of  , says most of the politicians follow Modi these days. He is the one who uses the social media for personal connect the most. With his electoral success, other leaders and parties see him as a role model and are replicating it. "It's Modi effect," he said.
 
