'Head to Congress Bhavan. They have the best chingri maach. Also, the kosha mangsho at Bhosale Nagar is to die for!’

 During Pujo, besides festive pleasantries, we can bet that the next most important topic of discussion among Bengalis is what one can eat and where – such is their love for food! Be that as it may, the real charm, however, lies in the simple ‘bhog’ (an offering to Ma Durga) served during the festival.
 
 Close to lunch hours, it’s common to see people partaking in the meal on sal leaf or dona plates as dada-boudis and elderly kaku-kakimas attend to them. An honest celebration of community, we couldn’t think someone better than 68-year-old Moni Das to tell us more about this divine meal.
 
 We meet Moni, the head cook of   (one of the city’s oldest pujas), in a makeshift mandap beside the pandal. Sporting a checked gamccha, he oversees his team that readies the day’s  . They stir enormous steel patilas of food, as myriad aromas arise and engulf us. “We’ve been cooking since 5 am,” he tells us. While Moni captains the ship, he has 15 men assisting him, and an additional 10 men packing food parcels for visitors who won’t be eating at Pune Kali Bari.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Having used over 40 kilos of paneer, 40 kilos of peas, 50 kilos of potatoes, 200 kilos of rice and about 200 litres of milk, Moni assures us that the food will be more than sufficient. “10 people can have a kilo of bhog’er khichuri. Going by that estimation, we cook according to the day and its expected footfall. Ashtami and Navami see maximum attendance. That’s when we cook for 3000-plus people,” Moni adds. Clearly, catering for so many has become second nature for him, given that he has been cooking for Pune Kali Bari since 1979.
 
 The quintessential meal is a simple one, merely representing a lavish Bengali meal for everyone to partake in. Moni tells us that the line-up usually comprises, but isn’t restricted to, flavoursome bhog’er khichuri (prepared from special Gobindobhog rice, moong dal and vegetables; except onions and garlic), labra (Bengali-style mixed vegetable), a sweet-tangy date and tomato chutney, beguni (a fried brinjal savoury) followed by payesh (rich Bengali rice kheer). On Saptami, Pune Kali Bari served devotees a Bengali-style pulao, chana dal, aloo-mattar-paneer, chutney and payesh. Today’s menu will be the aforementioned standard one.
 
 
 
  
  
 Moni says, “Panch phoron (five-spice masala) is most important for preparing khichuri, labra and chutney. If it is prepared here, the flavours don’t match up to what you get in Bengal. Hence we source the masala and Gobindobhog rice from Kolkata.” Another key element is the bhaja masala gudi (dry-roasted and ground masala) that’s added to the khichuri along with ghee before serving. 
 
 Besides Durga Puja, Moni is busy during other pujas at Pune Kali Bari, namely amavasya puja, Annapurna puja, Saraswati Puja, Laxmi Puja and Kali Puja, to name some. Besides seeking Durga’s blessings, he is also reason why many love visiting — to tuck into the familiar, homely meal they look forward to. Rest assured, when you visit today, the taste and flavour will be just like what you relished last year.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 According to consulting Indologist  , socially, Durga Puja in its present form was started in the early 16th century by Bengal’s rajas and zamindars. “They instituted the festival in their palatial homes as a show of authority or autonomy against the British. Gradually, it became an opportunity to flaunt wealth and social status. They would organise grand feasts and committed acts of charity. The grander the feast, the more the social prestige,” she says.
 But the gastronomic excesses are also justified with an emotional narrative. Rina Pradhan, a member of Anandam Association, explains, “We liken Ma Durga’s visit to the arrival of a married daughter to her parent’s house. Her spending these five days with us brings immense happiness. She is thus pampered with the most delectable traditional food in the form of bhog.” According to Urmi, the offerings in West Bengal are mostly vegetarian, but the East of Bengal (now Bangladesh) offer the goddess non-vegetarian fare, including meat and fish. 
 
 *
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Pictures by Santosh Mishra
