BENGALURU: The   has permitted killing of   in the state. 

 The order comes a few months after the government allowed   in selected areas of  . The government notified wild boar as ‘'vermin’ for a year in the state. It means the animal can be shot dead, under certain conditions, by people living on the periphery of forests.
 
 TOI has accessed a copy of the notification which says that "in exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, the state government hereby declares wild pig (Sus scrofa) to be vermin for a period of one year from the date of issue of this notification, which is January 13”. Declaring the wild boar as 'vermin' is easy, compared to other wild animals as it’s not an endangered species, say forest officials.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests B G Hosmath said there had been complaints of widespread destruction of crops due to a huge increase in number of wild pigs in areas outside the forest. “We considered it necessary to balance the local population of species to mitigate damage to crops,’’ he added.
 
 Hosmath said the huge wild pig population, scarcity of food and shrinking natural habitats compelled them to stray into villages on the forest fringe in search of food and this led to crop damage.
 
 Sources, however, said the government issued the order under pressure from several MLAs and MPs whose constituencies has a large forest cover. The farmers living adjacent to forested areas face considerable economic losses and expect huge compensation from government, indirectly putting pressure on their local representatives, they added.
 
 The decision has shocked conservationists and wildlife authorities. They fear it would lead to indiscriminate hunting and open up trade in wildlife meat.
 
 Wildlife researcher Ravi N Kumar said the order could be extended to other crop-raiding animals. “The wild boar is an important link in the food cycle of carnivores. Indiscriminate killing of the species could lead to dwindling of population and upset the food chain and this could lead to ecological imbalance,” he added.
 
 He said it’s possible that other animals would be hunted and their meat consumed under the cover of the new directive. 
 
