Nagpur: After a slight delay, an application was filed before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday mentioning names of lawyers for panel to supervise and monitor all courts in the city.

 It was filed as per court’s directives while hearing a PIL (No 67/2015) by petitioner Manoj Sable, through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, praying for directives to the PWD for construction of additional infrastructure like courts and bar rooms at ‘Suyog’ building premises for convenience of lawyers and litigants.
 
 The application was moved by Bhandarkar where he suggested the names of senior and junior lawyers who would be part of the panel. The panel would continuously monitor the problems being faced by lawyers in all buildings where courts/judicial/quasi-judicial forums are functioning. Subhash Ghare, Prashant Sathianathan, Masood Shareef, Rajeshree Dewani, Krupal Bhoyar, Akshay Samarth, Yamini Bhagat and Abhijeet Rushi, besides Sable, would be part of the panel.
 
 Citing his vast legal experience of over two decades, the petitioner stressed on redressing some issues on priority, including insufficient parking space and infrastructure, cramped chambers for lawyers, ever-stinking toilets, inadequate fire safety measures and complete absence of security. There is shortage of courtrooms as well, which is severely hampering speedy dispensation of justice, across all courts in the region. TOI had been highlighting this issue since long. 
 
 In the last hearing, the District Bar Association (DBA) sought land situated on both sides of nullah for two-wheeler parking to avoid chaos. Accordingly, the proposal was dispatched to concerned department which informed that centre’s clearance would be required since area comes under the forest. A nursery of forest department is already located there.
 
 “The problem of parking at Nyay Mandir is temporary and after new building comes up within two years, the issue will be over. However, till then, traffic congestion and other associated problems on public road and in area where all the government offices are located can’t be tolerated. It will be in the interest of citizens to provide alternate arrangement,” a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye stated.
 
 The court directed associate solicitor general of India Ulhas Aurangabadkar to consider whether temporarily the land can be licensed to DBA or to the office of principal district judge for its use for particular time only for purpose of parking.
 
 It further directed the state to process DBA’s application expeditiously.
 
 
