DEHRADUN: Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan   on Sunday said in order to bolster income of farmers, the Uttarakhand government would be allowed to bring about necessary changes in the law enabling them to cut 20 varieties of trees, according to a central government scheme, which has already been in place in different parts of the country.
 
  The farmers will have to grow those 20 varieties of tress, which once matured, they will be allowed to cut and sell in the timber market. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has also agreed to launch the scheme for the benefit of farmers,” Singh told TOI.
  
  Stating that the move would help farmers in a big way, Singh added, “Once the necessary changes in the laws are made, it will help Uttarakhand farmers earn big money by selling the wood in the timber market.”
  
  Noted environmentalist Anil   hailed the idea mooted by the Union agriculture minister for Uttarakhand, but suggested to incentivise the farmers who opt for forest farming on their land. “The concept is good, but the central government must incentivise the farmers till they don’t want to cut the trees on their land. By deciding not to cut the trees, the farmers will be contributing to soil enrichment, environment and green cover of the state,” added Joshi.
  
  The Union minister, who is on a visit to Uttarakhand, held meeting with   workers at the party’s state headquarters in Dehradun before leaving for Delhi on Sunday.
  
  Announcing a financial package Rs 700 crore for improving the infrastructure of five sugar mills cooperatives, he said, “I had meetings with state government officials, and told them to submit the proposal for these sugar mills and the funds would be made available.”
  
  Expressing his unhappiness over the agriculture ministry’s unspent funds, Singh said, “In Uttarakhand, around 50% of the funds are spent in different centrally-sponsored schemes. This time, I have been assured by the chief minister and his officials that the funds will be fully utilised.”
  
  He, however, admitted that water shortage in Uttarakhand hills plagued agriculture, and his ministry was focusing on the micro irrigation. “We are now pushing for both drip and micro irrigation techniques for the farmers of Uttarakhand. Both techniques have given superb result in plains as well as hilly terrain,” said Singh.
  
  The union minister also stated that the agriculture ministry had selected two districts of Uttarakhand — Chamoli and   — for setting up krishi vigyan kendras. “The state government has promised to provide land in Pithoragarh for the project, while the second one in Chamoli has already started functioning.”
  
