Actor   has been making some smart choices, which has helped him carve a niche for himself in the film industry. Essaying an array of characters, he has emerged out of the dark horse tag and his acting talent has made people take notice – not just in Mollywood but also Kollywood. His Tamil debut Abhiyum Anuvum is set for release and recently the actor has bagged the villain’s role in Dhanush’s  . 

 While Tovino says that it is too early to divulge details about his character, he gives us a gist, saying that the story has an undertone of suspense. “My character is no typical villain, who gets battered by the hero. He’s got a backstory and the narrative will take the audience through two phases of his life. How he lands in the current situation will also be portrayed,” says Tovino, adding that the movie will go on floors by November with Chennai as the major location.
 
 The Guppy actor is already looking forward to sharing screen space with  . “Though I have met him a few times during award functions, I have not had personal conversations with him. That said, he is someone I respect and admire as an actor. I am really excited to be part of the film and act alongside him,” says Tovino, adding that there are a few noteworthy scenes in the film when the shrewd villain gets the upper hand over the hero.
 
 Tovino has previously played the antagonist in movies such as Style and ABCD. While he says he’s found essaying the villain more interesting than the hero, it’s the “substance of the character that gains precedence”.
 
 “Be it a hero or a villain, the process would still be the same. However, I make it a point that the audience does not typecast me, and keep them guessing on what my next role is,” he says.
 
 His upcoming Tamil-Malayalam bilingual Abhiyum Anuvum has him playing a full-length romantic hero alongside Pia Bajpai, and the lip-lock scene in the movie has hogged the limelight recently. However, Tovino quickly adds, “It was something that the script demanded. I don’t think much importance has to be given to it. The fact that the people are talking more about it is actually taking away from the main concept of the movie. The film has something beyond all that.” 
 
 Though he has been flooded with offers from two film industries, Tovino stresses that it’s the excitement of being part of good films that keeps him going. “I always ensure that I start working on another film only after completing a particular movie. I want to take it slow and steady, just like the tale of tortoise and rabbit.”
 
 The intervals between movies allow him to strike a balance between family and work, and also work on his characters. “My looks for two consecutive films will not be the same. When I look in the mirror, I have to feel that change and it helps me immerse myself in the character.”
 
 When asked if there was any character that he always wanted to play, Tovino quotes the Joker from The Dark Knight. “Do I really look like a guy with a plan? If you look at the films I have done, you will feel the same. I want to do movies that others have not attempted.”
 
