MUMBAI:   on Wednesday said it will decide whether to allow an aeronautical   to be carried out to ascertain the permissible height of buildings in a sensitive core area around Mumbai  .

 “We want to be 100% sure more because this is in everyone’s interest. Builders are only interested in profit. It will open the floodgates for builders,” said a bench headed by Justice Vidyasagar Kanade. The court heard an application by Sanguinity Realty Pvt Ltd, earlier called Keystone Realtors. 
 
 The developer moved court after   rejected its plea to add three floors to its under-construction 12-storey building, which falls in the inner horizontal surface and is coming up on St Cyril Road, Bandra (W). IHS has a radius of 4km around the airport.
 
 Its petition said AAI’s rejection cited the HC’s September 1, 2016 order, passed in a PIL, which directed BMC, while making the development plan, to fix the height of buildings in inner horizontal surface to 56.9 metres in Mumbai airport’s vicinity and under no circumstances to relax it. 
 
 The petition said AAI’s aeronautical study permits a maximum height of 90m. While it has been granted 45.1m above ground level by AAI, it requires a height of 64.5m above ground level to consume full floor space index and make the project viable. This height is well within and less than the maximum height permitted by AAI and does not affect aircraft operations, it added.
 
 Senior advocate Virag Tulzapurkar, appearing for Sanguinity, urged that International Civil Aviation Authority be directed to conduct the study. “If it says no, I am out. If the study says yes, it can be placed before court to decide whether to permit me extra height or not,” he said. The bench posted the matter on March 22 seeking the response of all authorities. “We want to be very clear in our mind before we arrive at any decision,” said Justice Kanade. 
 
 The PIL was filed by advocate Yeshwant Shenoy regarding danger posed to aircraft by   near the airport. In August 2016, the court vacated the stay on demolition of illegal floors of a Santacruz building which falls in the flight path. The court was told that two out of three floors have been demolished.
 
 
