HYDERABAD: With layoffs in the IT sector only expected to get bigger, the   ( ) has sent a representation to IT companies listing out a slew of measures that should be taken by companies as well as the state government to make the severance process less painful for employees facing the axe.

 These include a severance pay of six months, avoiding poor performance ratings, extending the company provided insurance policies for a year after termination of employment, coverage under Aarogyasri for employees with serious health issues and absorption of some laid-off employees in government departments, among others.
 
 “It has been observed that the industry is reducing the ratings of employees to be sacked. However, layoffs are happening because the companies are not performing well and not the other way round. We feel measures should be taken to protect them (employees) and we have advised companies to not reduce ratings as they would pop up during the background verification process when they apply for jobs in the future,” said TITA president  .
 
 The IT body has demanded that companies continue life and health insurance policies for the affected employees for at least a year from the date of termination of employment. “In many cases, the employees might not be able to get another job immediately due to the dearth of projects in the market. If an insurance requirement crops up in the meantime, they will be left with no support system,” read the TITA representation sent to the managements of IT companies and the Telangana government.
 
 TITA also wants the state government to extend the benefit of welfare schemes like Aarogyasri to the laid-off employees facing serious health issues or those with ailing dependents. It has also urged companies to give employment options within the company (like change in project) to such employees instead of sacking them outright.
 
 Apart from asking companies to give a six-month severance package instead of the one-month package currently being offered by companies, TITA has urged IT players to provide such employees access to training and skill development programmes for one year.
 
