NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Thursday   three Aam Aadmi Party MLAs on   of molestation and   after a woman filed a complaint against them, alleging that she was thrashed inside the assembly by these legislators and their aides. 

 Police said that in her complaint, the woman has accused Okhla   Amanatullah Khan, Malviya Nagar legislator Somnath Bharti and Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh of abusing and thrashing her on June 28. She alleged that she was dragged and locked inside a room, where two men were being thrashed. 
 
 DCP (north) Jatin Narwal confirmed that an FIR under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (1) (sexual harassment), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC was registered at the Civil Lines police station. 
 
 The woman alleged that she had gone to see the proceedings of the House, but could not get the pass for the visitors’ gallery. “While I was standing outside the building, a group of men, who were engaged in a scuffle, ran towards me. They pushed and shoved me. I was later taken to a room where two men were already being thrashed, and kicked,” she said in her complaint.
 
 The woman told the cops that she did not take part in any protest and was standing outside the assembly when Jarnail Singh ran towards her with his men and asked them to thrash her, saying that she was the same woman who had slapped AAP functionary Sanjay Singh earlier. 
 
 She alleged that Singh was accompanied by Khan. They allegedly pushed her and forcibly dragged her inside the assembly building despite her objections. 
 
 “The two MLAs molested and sexually harassed me. Amanatullah pinned me down on the floor and Jarnail Singh hit me in my stomach with his leg and punched me as well. In the meantime, Somnath Bharti arrived and he too hurled abuses at me. He told them to keep thrashing me as the incident was taking place on the assembly premises and no action can be taken against them,” she said in her complaint.
 
 Police said they would ask the three MLAs to join the investigation.
 
 
 
 
 AAP said on Thursday that the FIR filed against three of its MLAs is not tenable and “reeks of vendetta politics”.
 
 Senior party member Bhavana Gaur said that the complainant, a former AAP volunteer, had a history of accusing people of sexual harassment and that she was being used against AAP by BJP. “There were six women, including police women in plain clothes, inside the House when this incident is supposed to have taken place. There is no way that we would have allowed any man to have harassed a woman, whoever she may have been,” Gaur said. “Right before the elections, the complainant also slapped senior party member, Sanjay Singh, and accused people from his team of harassing her. During the bail hearing, the court said that there is a distinction between harassment and intervening between two people who are having a fight.” 
 
 The party has alleged that her entry into the assembly on June 28 was facilitated by the office of BJP MLA Vijender Gupta. 
 
 
