TRICHY: Chants of 'Ranga Ranga', 'Govinda Govinda' reverberated across the 156-acre premises of   as soon as  , also known as  , was opened for the lord at 4:45am on Sunday. Slowly, the presiding deity, Lord Ranganathaswamy, crossed the door sending the devotees into a trance while 14 LCD screens kept at various points around the temple streamed the spectacle live. 

 In the run-up to the occasion, the deity, appearing in  , was taken in a procession from the Moolasthanam round 3.45 am. Witnessing the opening of Paramapadha Vaasal in the temple is believed to open doors for one to Vaikuntham which explains the huge gathering of devotees. 
 
 In fact, they waited for hours together in queues starting as early as Saturday afternoon to see the divine 'crossing' at Paramapadha Vaasal and took turns to follow the deity throughout the day. 
 
 With over 4,000 police personnel keeping strict vigil on every movement, pathways in the temple were barricaded for orderly movement of devotees. VIPs too were not given any exception this time and had to remain in the pathway formed using ropes by the police near Paramapadha Vaasal. 
 
 "We were expecting the night to be cold as it is during the month of Margazhi. But temperature was considerably low in the night," said Venkateswaran, 36 from Gundur in Andhra Pradesh who stood all night along with his wife to witness the event. According to the police, surveillance cameras showed that over 68,000 devotees thronged the temple from 11 pm on Saturday till 4 am Sunday. This was in addition to the two lakh floating population that the temple witnessed in two days. 
 
 Close to three lakh devotees throng Ranganathaswamy temple or   as part of Vaikuntha Ekadasi festival observed every year in the Tamil month of Margazhi. The eleventh day of the festival is the most important and anticipated in the 21-day-long festival as it symbolises the opening of door to Vaikuntham, abode of Lord Vishnu. 
 
 Tourism Minister Vellaimandi N Natarajan, Backward classes/Minorities welfare minister S Valarmathi along with various dignitaries witnessed the event along with the devotees. 
 
 
 
