AHMEDABAD: The government may be preaching ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, but when it comes to employment, the  . 

 A government rule firstly stipulates that only married women can get the job of an  . What’s more surprising is that even a married daughter of the soil—a woman born into that village—can’t get the job because she is a ‘beti’ (daughter) of the village and not a ‘bahu’ (daughter-in-law) married into the village.
 
 While the government harps on changing the mindsets of people, it has been fighting tooth and nail to defend these rules. It recently filed an appeal before a division bench of the Gujarat high court after a single-judge bench ruled against this discriminatory arrangement.
 
 Last July, Justice N V Anjaria ordered the woman and child welfare department to give a woman in a Dang village the anganwadi job she was denied only because she was born in the same village. The woman fulfilled the other 12 eligibility criteria for the job, including that she be married and living in the same village.
 
 In this case, Jhigaben Edait of Morjira village was declared disqualified by the child development project officer on surprising grounds. “Gaam na dikri hoi, gaam ni vahu na hovathi” (She is a daughter of the village, not a daughter-in-law of the village).
 
 Edait approached the high court through advocate Shakeel Qureshi and argued that the system was discriminatory, denied her equality in opportunity and was hence unconstitutional.
 
 Edait was born in Morjira village and got married in Maharashtra. She and her husband settled in Morjira. This decision, to settle in her birth place, became an impediment in her employment. After hearing her case, the HC said that the authority’s decision “cannot be allowed to stand”, and the court ordered the government to give her the job in Morjira, or if there was no vacancy there, at a nearby village in Dang district.
 
 The state government did not accept this and challenged the order before a division bench. The appeal was filed on the basis of a government resolution, that says that only married women from within the village and hamlet can be given the job. “This is because if the woman is not married in the same village, there are chances of them shifting to other places,” said advocate HS Munshaw, who represents the child development project officer.
 
 Minister of state for woman and child welfare Dr   defended the GR, saying that married women over 30 years of age are considered more responsible.
 
 “If the daughter gets married and moves, the children of the anganwadi will suffer. It is to avoid such situations that women who have married into and settled in the village are given preference,” Wadhwani said.
 
 
