NEW DELHI:  's decision to pull out midway through Delhi's Vijay Hazare one-day match - against Maharashtra in Cuttack on Tuesday - was necessitated by an injury scare which forced him to take preventive measures ahead of the   and  , it has been learnt.

 With Kedar Jadhav just beginning his assault on Delhi bowlers, Nehra left the ground feeling his groin after bowling 6.2 overs. The left-arm pacer has now returned to Delhi and the selectors have sent   as replacement.
 
 “He (Nehra) has an issue with his groin. It isn't very serious. He is in Delhi to look after the injury,” Delhi selector Nikhil Chopra told TOI. The 37-year-old travelled with the team to Cuttack on the condition that he would not play every match. The injury-plagued veteran pacer played the first match and then skipped the next before taking the field after three days.
 
 Sources close to Nehra said he hopes to recover in time for the IPL. 
 
 “There is no injury as such. His groin got stiff as he stepped on a foot hole at the local ground. This is just a precautionary measure. He is working on his fitness and preparing for future commitments. He is already doing his gym work and will resume bowling by the weekend. He is fit and will be available for the entire IPL and any cricket after that,” the source told TOI. “Anyway, he was only supposed to play three matches. If Delhi had an outside chance of qualifying, Nehra would have flown back. But that looks unlikely as the team has lost first three matches. He has two months of IPL to prove his fitness for the Champions Trophy.”
 
 Nehra, who made his comeback into the Indian T20 team last January, has insisted that he still has a strong desire to represent the country in the Champions Trophy in June. “When you go to England you will take at least four fast bowlers in addition to two spinners. I know I can bowl anywhere: up front, in the middle overs and at death. I can also share the experience I have with the other young fast bowlers,” Nehra had recently said in an interview.
 
