New Delhi: The Environment Pollution Control Authority ( ) is set to submit a comprehensive action plan to the   on meeting the national air quality standard in NCR. 

 The draft plan prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board ( ),   (DPCC) and air quality experts says that annual average PM 2.5 concentrations need to be reduced by roughly 70% in Delhi to meet the annual standard of 40 micrograms per cubic metres. 
 
 This is based on an analysis of annual average PM 2.5 concentrations in the capital for the past three years, which is 132 micrograms per cubic metres, about 3 times the annual safe standard. EPCA discussed various guiding principles of the draft plan at a meeting with DPCC and CPCB officials on Monday. While one of the principles stresses a time-bound implementation of the plan, other important point is to prioritise sources of pollution, which have a greater impact on public health and are responsible for toxic emissions. 
 
 EPCA members said combustion sources such as diesel and coal burning are definitely much higher on the toxicity threshold than just windblown dust. They, in fact, recommended a “speciation study” of dust, which will reveal the toxic pollutants from combustion sources that coat dust particles. “The reason it is important to tackle combustion sources on a priority basis is because they not only cause air pollution but also coat dust particles making them toxic,” a member said.
 
 CPCB officials said scientific studies elaborating on toxicity of combustion emissions should be attached to the draft plan. Members have decided to include a study by Health Effects Institute (HEI), which lays down the difference between combustion and non-combustion sources of emissions. 
 
 Among interventions, it recommends bus rapid transit (BRT) or light rail transit (LRT) for NCR, a common ticketing system and a traffic clearance process for every big project in the city. For non-motorised transport network, it recommended implementation of bicycle master plan, retrofitting roads with street design guidelines and safety and walkability audits, among others.
 
 MoEF to submit decisions on petcoke and furnace oil 
 
 The Union environment ministry is supposed to submit its decision on banning petcoke and other polluting fuels to SC in the next hearing. EPCA members highlighted that US is producing a large amount of petcoke but US EPA has restricted its use because of its high pollution potential. 
 
 Ammonia pollution in Noida and Delhi
 
 EPCA has received complaints of electrical appliances getting damaged in Noida because of ammonia pollution. EPCA head Bhure Lal said “even property prices of homes along a closed drain in   have fallen by nearly 30% because of the ammonia stench”.
 
