Telecom regulator  's move to cut interconnect usage charges (IUC) by over 50% is expected to increase troubles for older mobile companies -Bharti Airtel, Vodafone and Idea Cellular -even as Reliance   will emerge as the biggest gainer. Jio gains from having a modern, 4G-only internet (VOLTE) network and a lower IUC will mean that it will have to pay lesser charges to competing companies for terminating calls of its customers.

 Jio, whose entry in September last year disrupted financials of older players, is expected to announce lower tariffs very soon. Its entry plan at this moment begins at Rs 149, and sources said the company may revise this soon to factor in lower IUC that come in force from October. Market analysts said Trai's decision will put more pressure on the business and financial numbers of older telecom players. “The bleeding will be steeper now, and respite is nowhere in sight,“ said a leading analyst, while asking for anonymity as he advises most of the companies.
 
 Idea and Vodafone India are already in losses, and are working out a merger to strike synergies. Airtel has seen its profitability shrink by over 70% in last two quarters. The new regulation may see the company report even more difficult numbers, analysts said.
 
 The older operators, who are represented by the industry lobby body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), have been disappointed by Trai's decision to cut IUC rates to 6 paise per minute from14 paise. “It's a big hit to the industry ,“ Rajan Mathews, director-general of COAI, told TOI.   said Trai “needs to be fair and transparent“, and added lower charges will mean that companies will not have enough money to invest in new tech.
 
 He said older companies will now go to court to challenge Trai's order. “It has to go to the high court, and obviously over the next couple of days. The ma jority of members (of COAI) has mostly decided.“ Jio is also a member of COAI, though it has mostly been at loggerheads with the views represented by Mathews or the industry body .
 
 While Jio had been strongly seeking a cut in IUC in order to encourage new technologies and 4G, the demand had been countered by rival telecom players. Representations opposing the move had been sent by Airtel chairman  ,   Group (that controls Idea Cellular) chairman   and Vodafone Global CEO Vittorio Colao.
 
 A Vodafone India spokesperson said: “We are disappointed and are considering options in response to it. The Indian telecom industry is experiencing the greatest period of financial stress in its history .This is yet another retrograde regulatory measure that, unless mitigated, will have serious consequences.“ 
 
