Udhagamandalam: Another feather in the cap of the ‘Queen of Hills’ is to happen soon. A new floral garden, spread over 45 acres, will be open to the public in two months. The garden located near the Ooty Lake is an initiative of the horticulture department of Karnataka government. With potted flower plants of perennial varieties, the garden will have blooms throughout the year, according to the officials.

 The garden, located at the west end of Ooty and close to the Ooty Lake, was once owned by the Maharaja of Mysore. “Now the land, owned by the Karnataka government, has an ideal landscape for a floral garden. We started the work some five years ago,” P K Krishnamurthy, special officer, Karnataka horticulture department, told TOI.
 
 With 6 mini dams, the floral garden would present an Italian garden, maze concept garden, and floral beds on lawns, extending to 6 acres, besides an amphitheatre. Krishnamurthy, who was involved in developing the floral garden since its inception in 2012, said: “We have developed grazing land spread over 2 acres for sheep. We now have 17 sheep. It is an added attraction to the garden and an ecological concept too.”
 
 According to the official, except for the dams, there is nothing made of concrete or cement. Every small concept of the garden is nature friendly. Even the mini dams store rain water and water from natural streams. “The water is used for irrigating the garden during summer,” said the official.
 
 “We have a huge green house with a variety of flower plants which is meant for replacement in the garden on rotation. Hence, even during off-season, our garden would display blooms,” said Krishnamurthy.
 
 It has an exclusive orchid house, besides a bunch of indigenous trees, a main attraction for birds.
 
 The garden also houses a 4-acre tea plantation. Facilities have been provided for visitors to take a stroll through the tea garden.
 
 “Of the 45 acres, 20 acres has been developed fully as a garden. Work is still on to complete the rest. Meanwhile, we have plans to open the garden to the public by December,” said the official.
 
 While parking is a major problem in Ooty town, this garden has a huge parking facility, which can accommodate 150 light vehicles, 30 mini buses and 20 regular buses.
 
 
