YAVATMAL: Pachpore in   taluka is a picturesque village spread across 2500 acres of land, inhabited by 132 tribal families of the primitive Kolam tribe. Almost all the houses have sides and roofs made of bamboo in intricate patterns; you might even spot flowerpots, doors and other articles made of bamboo in the houses. It has only been about a year since the village was granted 1,100 hectares of land under Forest Right Act, but the transformation has been tremendous.

 The villagers are now ready with a chalked-out plan of their vision for preservation and management of forest for the next ten years, made through a financial survey, stock mapping and satellite mapping of the families.
 
 “Over 50% of our village is engaged in making articles out of bamboo. The art of making it has been passed on to us from earlier generations. Earlier when we used to procure bamboo, we used to feel like thieves. We assumed that the forest belongs to the government,” says 35-year-old sarpanch Barikrao Tekam. Now, a quota of bamboo has been decided for each family according to its needs, and the family is free to make baskets, mats, compounds and more, and sell it directly to contractors, he says.
 
 The village is also taking steps for preservation of the forest such as restricting grazing, patrolling twice in a day, and sowing new plants along with adding manure to the existing ones.
 
 A big basket sells for Rs100, while the smaller variants can be found for Rs70 and Rs50. Villager Vasant Sambhasoyam, 30, has been making bamboo articles since the last 10 years, along with working on others’ farm. “We spend about 2-3 days cutting ripe 20 foot long bamboo, and another 2-3 hours to cut it into strips. It is then possible to make 20-30 baskets in a day,” he says. Exploitation of the villagers at the hands of traders has stopped after formation of Community Forest Rights Management Committee, which decides the prices.
 
 In getting rights over their forest, the village was helped by   (GSMT), an NGO situated in Wani, Yavatmal, which works towards enhancing the capacities of village panchayats and community-based organizations in the district. For the first time this year, the villagers, auctioned the tendu leaves on their own by adhering to methodical process such as creating accounts or retrieving past records.
 
 More interestingly, the village is now moulding itself into a creative hub, due to the efforts of its youth. In February this year, about 15 youngsters belonging to the age-group of 22 to 25 years were provided training and exposure at Sampoorna Bamboo Kendra, Lawada, for advanced training in making creative bamboo articles such as letter-pads, rakhi, teapots, earrings and more. The youngsters are now teaching their learning to others in their village.
 
 In the first week of July, another set of youngsters were taken to Bioved Research Society, Allahabad, to expose them to cultivation and production of lac, and its subsequent use in making decorative articles such as paperweight, bangles, pen-stand, purses, and to use it as a coating for a variety of things in order to make them attractive.
 
 “We will help the villagers sell these items by getting in touch with other NGOs and, local and statewide outlets,” says director of  , adding that if given proper support, the village has the potential to make considerable progress.
 
 The village is also readying itself to sell bamboo to a paper company. “The gramsabha is at the moment making estimates, and will sell bamboo in the coming summer,” informed GSMT project coordinator  . The forest department has pledged its technical support. This is just the beginning.
 
 
