HYDEARABAD: The ubiquitous curry leaf, which is a must-have in every south Indian kitchen, might actually be a silent killer. Agricultural scientists have warned that the commercially-cultivated   are laced with poisonous   that cause cancer and lead to health problems in the long run. That no kitchen in south India goes without using this leaf to spice up various dishes makes this problem all the more worrisome.

 A study done by researchers at Prof Jayashankar Agricultural University, Hyderabad, found that unhealthy agricultural practices by farmers have resulted in the contamination of curry leaves with nearly 50 harmful chemicals used to kill insects, fungus and other pests. No other vegetable or fruit grown in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has such a high number of contaminants.
 
 The researchers researchers analysed 75 samples of curry leaves from three districts in the two Telugu states — Medak, Guntur and Anantapur. All the samples contained more than one chemical. Some of the chemicals were permethrin, ethion, chlorpyriphos, quinalphos, monocrotophos and triazophos.
 
 The samples obtained from Guntur had the highest number of chemicals (45), followed by Medak (39) and Anantapur (28). The Hyderabad market is served by farmers from Medak district. According to the researchers, all the samples were laced with organophosphates (29.6%), synthetic pyrethroids (20.69%), fungicides (13.79%), neo-nicotinoids (10.34%), herbicides (6.90%) and carbamates (3.45%). 
 
 “The residue levels ranged from a minimum of 0.05 mg per kg to as high as 37.78 mg per kg,” the research team elaborated in the findings published in the January issue of the International Journal of Environmental and Agriculture Research. The team included scientists S Swarupa Rani, G Priyadarshini, V Sashi and  . 
 
 The array of pesticides has made the common spice, which is known for its anticancer properties, into a   which could severely damage health due to ‘synergetic’ effects. This fact was earlier brought to limelight when the   banned curry leaf products in 2013 due to high chemical residues in them. A similar study by scientists at the agriculture varsity last year had thrown up similarly worrying results.
 
 Scientists suggest that regular monitoring of use of pesticides might solve the problem. They advise people to soak curry leaves in water for at least 15 minutes before using.
 
