Chandigarh: UT administrator VP Singh   held a meeting to review the law and order situation in the city. Badnore lauded the Chandigarh Police for handling the law and order situation during the period when the Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh verdict was to be announced by the Panchkula court.

 Briefing the officers, Jagdale Nilambari Vijay, SSP Chandigarh, shared that there has been a decrease in heinous crimes in the city as compared to the figures of the previous year.
 
 To prohibit smoking in public places, the SSP shared that more than 150 challans were issued under the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Act. The police department has also started a special drive under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act to track the activity of the drug mafias and control the supply of drugs. 
 
 The SSP further mentioned that under the Nigehbaan project, 1000 CCTV cameras have been installed in different areas of Chandigarh. 
 
 The Administrator lauded the initiatives taken by the Model Jail, Chandigarh for completing the Skill development courses for inmates. He also appreciated the efforts by the team in creation of the Gulal making unit, pure candle making units wherein the inmates make the products for sale in the market. He also praised the anganwari food project of the model jail which supplies food to over 100 anganwari centres in Chandigarh.
 
 Taking cognizance of the rising cyber crimes in Chandigarh, Badnore asked the officers concerned to upgrade the Cyber Crime Cell, so that it is fully geared up and equipped with latest gadgets to check the crime instantaneously. 
 
 The administrator also directed police officers to take all possible steps to put in place a proper mechanism to ensure smooth flow of traffic within the city, especially during the peak hours, and explore the possibility of using one way traffic option during peak hours or other options. He further asked the department to chalk out plans for better connectivity between sectors by introducing subways in the city. Badnore issued directions to the Police Department for ensuring that his movement across the city does not cause inconvenience to the general public. 
 
 
