PUNE: An unidentified man clad in a woman’s nightgown stole cash of Rs 50,000 from a   in Kondhwa on Sunday night. 

 Police said the thief jumped over the compound wall of the centre, Kothari  , and walked into the reception as the door was open. He then climbed over the cash counter, opened the drawer with a master key and walked out.
 
 The theft came to light on Monday morning when cash was found missing from the drawer. Closed circuit television cameras have captured his image.
 
 The centre’s manager,   (32), registered a complaint against the unidentified man under Section 380 (theft in a dwelling, house, etc) with the Kondhwa police station.
 
 An official from the centre said, “The thief came from Kondhwa-Saswad Rand jumped into our premises. The reception door was kept open as carpentry work was in progress on the first floor. Taking advantage of this, he walked in and stole the money.”
 
 The official added that when the cashier found the cash missing on Monday morning and reported it to the superiors, the premises were searched to find the cash, but it wasn’t found.
 
 “On checking the   camera, we found that it was stolen by an unidentified man wearing a woman’s gown. Three guards were on duty when the incident occurred but they didn’t notice the thief as two of them were behind the service centre while the third was on a patrol to ensure the locks and shutters were in place. His identity could not be ascertained as he had covered his face with a cloth,” the official said. 
 
 The official and police said they suspect the theft was committed by an insider. The official said that the thief’s behaviour of going straight to the cash counter shows he was well-informed. The official, however, also added that he is certain none of the 80-odd employees who work at the centre were responsible. 
 
 Sub-inspector   said, “We suspect the theft was committed by a known person or some insider may have tipped him off about the place where the cash was kept. We are in the process of recording the statements of the guards and other service centre employees. We are analysing the CCTV footage to ascertain the thief’s identity. A police team is working on clues to detect the case as soon as possible. We are also co-ordinating with other police stations in the city.”
 
