CHANDIGARH : Observing that the head of  ,  , is trying to prolong the trial in the case of   (women disciples) inside the sect headquarters, the   has directed the Panchkula’s special CBI court “to complete the trial at the earliest”.

 The single-judge bench of Justice Surinder Gupta passed these orders while dismissing a revision petition filed by the dera head against the June 6, 2015, orders of the special CBI court Panchkula. The special CBI judge had dismissed Ram Rahim’s plea to examine handwriting/fingerprint expert to get professional opinion regarding handwritings/signatures of one of the key witnesses of the case, Sarjeevan.
 
 “Apparent motive of the petitioner, as manifested, is to prolong the trial which is pending for the last about nine-years, and after conclusion of prosecution evidence in the year 2013, for defence evidence for the last four years. Trial court is directed to conclude the trial which is at final stage, at the earliest,” observed Justice Gupta in its order released on Tuesday.
 
 HC observed that the petitioner has already exercised his option of examining expert of his choice by moving application to send the disputed and admitted handwriting/signatures of Sarjeevan to Central Forensic Science Laboratory. His application was allowed and the report has been received.
 
 “Now, the petitioner cannot be permitted to again opt for examining another expert on the same point to give report based on same material, which was sent to CFSL. Once handwriting and fingerprints experts at CFSL, Chandigarh, have examined and given report on the basis of material supplied to them, there is no reason, purpose or justification to send the same material to another handwriting expert,” observed the court.
 
 The main argument of the dera chief was that in order to prove that letter regarding the rape of sadhvis inside their complex in Sirsa was in the handwriting of Sarjeevan, he wanted to examine a private expert in defence. He had contended that he will take only one date to examine expert and will not delay the trial.
 
 CBI, on the other hand, had submitted that petitioner has moved one revision after the other against order passed by trial court with the sole aim to prolong the trial, which is at final stage.
 
 The rape case against the dera head was registered by the CBI on December 12, 2002, on the direction of the high court. Challan was presented against him on July 30, 2007, and charges framed on September 6, 2008. Evidence in the case has also been concluded.
 
 
