Nagpur: With municipal corporation elections round the corner, smaller parties seem to be in a hurry to enter political marriages. These parties face dearth of grass roots workers and have no option but to forge tie-ups to pool resources in the new prabhag system which favours larger or cadre-based parties. So, even as the Congress is yet to decide on pre-poll pact with its traditional ally NCP and the saffron siblings BJP and Shiv Sena are squabbling over seat share in Mumbai for the BMC polls, several smaller parties have declared alliances or formation of fronts. On Monday, Bahujan Republican Socialist Party (BRSP) said it had formed a Progressive Democratic March grouping with AIMIM which is led by Owaisi and Janata Dal (U) and Janata Dal (Secular) as well as Vidarbha Rajya Party and RPI faction led by Upendra Shende, Forward Bloc and Jansurajya Party. BRSP, formed a year ago by splitting Bahujan Samaj Party, has decided to contest all 151 NMC seats as part of the coalition. While its BRSP will field 90 candidates, remaining seats will be shared by coalition partners of the Morcha, said BRSP chief Suresh Mane. The party is upbeat as it has some seats in the recent municipal council elections. “We will contest in eight of the ten municipal corporations in the state,” said Mane. Akola and Solapur are the two corporations where they will not contest so as to help Prakash Ambedkar’s party and PWP respectively. “The BJP and the Congress are the only parties with which we will never have any arrangement,” said Mane. He dismissed the BSP as a ‘market-oriented party” and its tactic to wait till last minute to declare candidates was seen with suspicion by people. The list of 20 candidates declared by the BRSP (prabhag no.in bracket): Sharad Yadav (1), Mangla Patil (2), Abdul Arif Gorepathan (5), Archana Shende (5), Navin Shahare (7), Subodh Chavre (9), A R Kureshi (10), Vinod Rangari (11), Mrinal Pendam (12), Jaywanti Awadh (14), Arun Sakharkar (17), Sanjay Ikhar (26), Dinkar Wathore (29), Maya Meshram (33), Prashant Bishnurkar (33), Raman Ramteke (37), Rajeev Jhodape (6), Pranita Dahate (2), Kedarnath Sharma (23) and Madhukar Rajurkar (23). 