CHENNAI: Around 3,000 residents of   near Ambattur have begun a battle against occupants of more than 400 apartments, spread across a hundred  , who are yet to link their sewage channels to the underground sewerage lines laid by Metrowater eight months ago. The apartment dwellers, say locals, have been draining sewage into the   instead.

 S Suresh, secretary of Thiruvengadam Nagar Residents Welfare Association, told TOI that although the sewage lines are in place, residents in the apartments still discharge sewage into the lake to avoid a one-time payment of Rs 20,000 to set up the line.
 
 “It is with great difficulty that we brought the drainage system. But those in the apartments did not take the connection. They are polluting the lake which is now full of hyacinths and garbage,” said Manoharan Johnson, president of the association.
 
 When TOI visited the site, the stench of sewage near the lake was overpowering. Filth from the apartments wound its way into the lake through unauthorised drainage lines. Residents of independent houses have taken the connection but those in the apartments are reluctant.
 
 The Ambattur Lake, located on   in Ayapakkam, is spread across 250 acres and is one of the important sources of drinking water after the Poondi Lake. “With the dumping of garbage and inflow of sewage, the lake is shrinking in size,” said M Selvamuthu, a resident of Krishnapuram.
 
 “Though the city corporation has issued notices to owners of these apartments, no action has been taken against,” said Paul Thurai, joint secretary of the association.
 
 R Ramesh, sanitary inspector of the public health department of the corporation said, “We have given residents of apartment complexes intimation letters to connect the sewer lines and protect the lake. If they do not comply, we will have to take action.”
 
 “Parts of Thiruvengadam Nagar have been integrated with the underground sewerage system. If the said buildings fall under those parts, the residents can opt for a connection by paying the charges. Otherwise they will have to use septic tanks to dispose waste and not pollute the lake. Work on connecting all of Ambattur to the sewerage channel is in progress,” said a Metrowater official.
 
 A cross section the people living near the water body said there has been large scale degeneration of the lake and it was time residents made efforts to restore it, like associations did to the Perungudi Lake. However, for a start, inflow of sewage into the lake must be plugged, said M Sundaramurthy, a resident.
 
 “This is our last ditch effort and it should be made by every apartment owner. There is no point in driving around in fancy cars and living in posh apartments if we cannot protect the environment and a water body in the neighbourhood,” Sundaramurthy said.
 
 (With inputs from Abdullah Nurullah)
 
 
