LUCKNOW:  , a 22-year-old youth living in Nauranga village of Ballia, missed the opportunity to join the   this February because he didn’t receive his interview letter on time.

 The letter arrived two days after the interview date because it was sent via a Bihar post office and not from any post office in Ballia. The odd location of his village, which has Ganga on one side and an embankment road on the other, prevents any postman from delivering letters to them. Like him there are over 300 youths across this gram panchayat who are suffering due to the curse of odd location of their villages.
 
 This gram panchayat in Bairia constituency comprises four villages — Bhuwal Chapra, Nauranga, Chakki Nauranga and Uddai Chapra — which form the border of UP and Bihar. There are over 25,000 people living in these villages of which around 10,000 are registered voters.
 
 Because there’s no bridge on Ganga to connect these villages to UP, no post offi ce is able to deliver letters to them, hence they have to depend on a nearby post offi ce in Bhrampur village of Bihar. This takes too much time and their letters reach almost 3-4 months late.
 
 These villagers are so miffed with the government’s apathy and its reluctance to build a bridge on the Ganga to connect them with UP that they have decided to boycott 2017 elections. Tinku says, “You can call it my bad luck that I was born in Nauranga.
 
 I have missed many opportunities because of a delay in delivery of interview and joining letters.
 
 “Like me, there are many in these villages who apply for SSB, CRPF, banking exams every year, but never get to appear on time.“ Frustrated with the negligence, the youths of this village formed a ‘Yuva Manch’ in November 2016 to put forth their demands before the government.
 
 “Because we have no connectivity across the Ganga, patients here have to be taken to a Bihar hospital even though we have good hospitals in Ballia.
 
 “Due to the bad roads, ambulances can’t reach here and we carry our patients on cots to a nearby village in Bihar. A bridge is badly needed here, but no one has ever given importance to this,” said Vashishth Pandey, a local.
 
 
 
