Surat: Police arrested two 13-year-old boys on Sunday for   during a minor tussle their classmate, whose body was recovered the previous day from   in   of the city. 

 The two minors were arrested on the charge of murdering  , a class VII student, after several hours of questioning since Saturday and sent to remand home. The boys were detained soon after Pintu’s family members expressed suspicion about their involvement in the murder. However, the police were not sure since deceased Pintu was of their age. Meanwhile, the police explored other possibilities but did not find any strong lead. 
 
 On Sunday, the family members again objected to carrying out postmortem on Pintu’s body. The postmortem could not be conducted on Saturday too due to their objection. There was a crowd of around 500 people at Surat Municipal Institute of Medical Education and Research (SMIMER). However, senior police officials were able to convince them after accepting some of their demands. 
 
 The boys informed the police that they went to eat sugarcane in a nearby farm on Thursday evening. They fought there over some issue when both the accused slapped and punched the deceased. Pintu fainted due to the thrashing after which the accused lifted him and left in the bushes. 
 
 “The boys were afraid that they will be punished by their schoolteacher or their parents if Pintu complained to them about the thrashing on regaining consciousness. Hence, they decided to kill Pintu. They hit a stone on his face when he was lying unconscious,” police said. The police investigation revealed that the teenager was murdered within half an hour of the trio going to the field together. 
 
 Investigation revealed that Pintu had fought with the accused many times in the past, including over their friendship with a girl. Police initially suspected that they had fought over the issue of girl but ruled it out after a detailed investigation.
 
 Those who knew Pintu told the police that the three were best of friends and used to roam around together and fought too often. They recently fought after a teacher scolded them for some mischief and Pintu held the two responsible for it later.
 
