NAGPUR: The usual hustle bustle of the   Ganga Jamuna was absent even three days after the raid by cops. The TOI team, with the consent of the ACP, visited the labyrinth of little streets inside the area on Thursday to check out the impact on residents.

 There are more than 500  , with more madness than method in construction. The TOI scribe was led through several small filthy rooms, with just enough space to keep one cot. Usually,   reside upstairs while the downstairs rooms are used for business. Sex workers move to a makeshift shelter on the terrace or the ground floor whenever cops raid the place. Sources said minors are sent here on contract basis for around Rs4-5 lakh for two years by parents from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gwalior.
 
 There are several hidden pits, where minors hide during raids. The TOI team found some sex workers repairing doors which had been broken down by cops to take out women and customers when the raid was conducted. Almost all rooms lead to the main road, to make escape easy.
 
 There are 16 entry and exit points to the six lanes, including Kashmiri, Delhi, 92, Bhaskar and Dargah Galli, informed a squad of detection branch. Every single lane leads to many exits, which are tough to remember.
 
 The cops have shut down all shops in the area, as zone III DCP Sambhaji Kadam felt that if they don’t get stuff of daily needs nearby, the CSWs would leave the place. But many locals have locked their main gates with thick chains and remain inside the place. The local shops remain shut, and the residents have now decided to meet the ACP to try and reopen them. 
 
 TOI spoke to ACP Rina Janbandhu, who is meeting shop keepers and commercial sex workers (CSW) regularly, to root out their illegal businesses completely. The ACP said that shop keepers run their stores just for name, but they are actually involved in providing customers to sex workers. The ACP has also held meetings with the priest of the local temple and dargah to convince them to inform cops if they came to know about any illegal activity.
 
 The ACP, posted here in October 2016, told TOI she had studied previous cases and started holding weekly meetings with sex workers to change their attitude towards life. She wanted them to opt respectable ways to earn money. “However, they demanded government job with salary of Rs15k per month and good houses to stay. They also said that if they won’t get enough pay, they will continue their business,” said the ACP.
 
 Then, from January this year, Janbandhu started taking small actions and rescued a few minors from the locality, but that was not sufficient to curtail activities. The matter had been discussed in the high court, which ordered cops to continue their action but also stressed on rehabilitation of such workers. The big question is how to rehabilitate the sex workers, since they are not accepted in the mainstream society. 
 
 
