Visakhapatnam: Even though it has been nearly a year since the AP State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) laid the optical fibre cables in north coastal AP, the set top boxes for providing internet, cable and phone connections are yet to reach households. However, APSFL officials said the set top boxes will be rolled out in north coastal AP in the middle of February and added that in the first phase, around 20,000 to 25,000 boxes will be distributed.

 According to APSFL sources, set top boxes are already being distributed in some villages in East Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Chittoor, Kadapa and Kurnool. As of now, around 7,000 set top boxes have been distributed in these districts.
 
 At the same time, APSFL sources said they have received around 1 lakh boxes and the distribution of these will be initiated from this month in different parts of the state. As part of its plans to distributed 10 lakh set top boxes by the end of May, sources in APSFL said another 4 lakh boxes will be available by the end of February while another 5 lakh boxes will be available for distribution by the end of March. 
 
 “We want to complete distribution of 1 million target of set top boxes by May,” said a senior APSFL official, adding that the distribution programme will be launched in Vizag and other two north coastal districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram between February 15 and 20. 
 
 As per APSFL officials, the cost of the set top boxes is Rs 4,000 for internet, cable and phone connection. Consumers will have the option of procuring the service on an instalment basis wherein they can pay Rs 500 upfront and Rs 99 per month for 48 months.
 
 Meanwhile, local cable operators observed that they are yet to receive information on availability of the set top boxes by APSFL. “It was supposed to start by December, then it was thought that it will be launched during Sankranti festival in January, but we are yet to receive the set top boxes,” said a local cable operator from the city. He said, “The cost of the set top boxes is on the higher side, so we will have to see if people are keen on purchasing it.”
 
 
