NEW DELHI: Union minister Smriti Irani on Friday hit back at   vice-president   for his remarks accusing the BJP-led NDA government of attempting to "strangulate reality" like the Nazi regime.

 On Friday, Rahul had likened PM   to   and said the government was trying to "paint a lie" over India 
  and marginalised.
 
 "Hitler, once wrote: Keep a firm grasp on reality, so you can strangle it at any time. This is what is happening today - strangulation of reality...   wants to paint a lie over India so that they can return it to an age of kings and no questions, where people were humiliated by power, where people's voices were crushed, where the poor and weak were trampled upon," Rahul had said at the 'Quest for equity' event in Bengaluru.
 
  
  
  
  
 He claimed that PM Modi was like a dictatorial emperor whose advisors were too afraid to voice their objections.
 
 "The emperor is completely naked but nobody around him has the courage to tell him," he said.
 
 
 
  
  
 Reacting sharply to the Gandhi scion's barbed remarks, BJP's Smriti Irani was quick to remind Rahul of his own party's track record.
 
 "You (Rahul Gandhi) are 42 years late on this one. No prizes for guessing who was inspired by Hitler, imposed the   and trampled over democracy," Irani said in an overt dig at former Prime Minister  's declaration of Emergency in 1975.
 
  
  
 Referred to as "the darkest phase of independent India", the Emergency lasted 21 months and witnessed rampant censorship of the press and imprisonment of dissenters.
 
 Irani further said Rahul's baleful augury did not pertain to the nation, but to his own party.
 
 "A bleak future awaits the Congress Party, not our Nation!" she said in a tweet late on Friday night, before quipping: "However, thank you @officeofRG for all that you do. Sincerely from the BJP!"
 
  
  
  
 This isn't the first time Irani has taken potshots at Rahul. Last week, she had called him "an immature mind who does not know the history of his own family" after he had targeted PM Modi for aggravating the unrest in Kashmir for political gain. At that time too, Irani had reminded him that the 
  
 
 
 
 
