HYDERABAD: Faced with an unprecedented water crisis even as peak summer begins, the Telangana government wants to draw water from the Srisailam and   reservoirs even though the levels there have reached dead storage. 

 The TRS government is to seek permission for the same from the   ( ). If denied,   and parts of Telangana will be in the grip of a severe crisis for the next three months as relief from the monsoon is only likely by the last week of June or first week of July.
 
 At Nagarjunasagar, the dead storage level is 500 feet, beyond which water cannot be drawn. At present, the level there is around 507 feet. At Srisailam, the dead storage level is 800 feet, below which water cannot be drawn as per the KRMB. The level now is 804 feet. The rural water supply and irrigation departments have estimated a demand of 12 tmc feet water for drinking and irrigation requirements for next three months. 
 
 Based on this estimate, the Telangana government has decided to approach the KRMB for permission to go below 500 feet level at Nagarjunasagar and below 800 feet at Srisailam. "We will have about 10 tmc feet water available in the dam at the dead storage level. But to go below the 500 feet, we have to take permission of the board," said a senior official in the irrigation department.
 
 Irrigation department sources said the situation was so alarming that they would need to get at least 5 tmc ft to meet Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy's drinking water needs and another 7 tmc ft water to save the crops in Khammam, Nalgonda, Ranga Reddy districts. If allowed to draw water beyond the dead storage level, this would be the second time in the history of the Krishna basin that water below 500 feet level has been exploited. In 2003, then TDP government moved to 499 ft level to provide water to crops.
 
 The KRMB in its latest order in February allocated 15.5 tmc ft of water to Telangana and 18.5 tmc ft to   in the available water of 34 tmc ft in Krishna river. It directed the two states that water should be used for saving standing crops and also meeting drinking water needs in both states till the end of May this year. In February and March, Telangana consumed about 15 tmc feet and AP one tmc ft leaving about 18 tmc ft in Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar. Now, AP is insisting on its share of 17.5 tmc ft. The water level at Srisailam has already reached 804.6 feet and further harnessing would result in less than 2 tmc ft being available. 
 
 Interestingly, the KRMB in its earlier meetings made it clear not to exploit the water at Nagarjunasagar below 503 feet level. At Srisailam, the Telangana wanted to go to 785 feet level.
 
