Mumbai: “And the award goes to….” announces the compère. The audience applauds, little aware that behind this seamless award presentation ceremony goes a lot of hard work carried out in the back room by validators.

 The   ceremony this season may have put   in the harsh spotlight of critics, but industry watchers view this slip as an aberration. Be it a mega Bollywood award’s show, recognition of best performers by an industry association, or free service coupons given to lucky customers by a beauty salon chain   — each of these is backed by a strong process of validation. The Big 4 —  ,  , PwC and   — are well entrenched providing such services.
 
 “Our validation practice has grown significantly and covers awards (which could even be business-to-business), contests, lotteries, lucky draws and television game shows. Awards are especially popular in Bollywood, theatre, beauty pageants, dancing and entertainment,” says Ashish Pherwani, partner (media & entertainment), EY India. Anil Talreja, partner at Deloitte India, says, “The popularity of reality and game shows in India is the driver to an increase in the demand for such services.”
 
 “External validation brings credibility, which increases participation. In turn, this builds up the aspirational value of the awards, results in more viewership and consequently increased sponsorship values,” explains Pherwani.
 
 As awards, which are not backed by external validators, are looked up in askance, even government-backed schemes do not shy away from appointing external validators. After demonetisation, to incentivise digital payments, a lucky draw scheme was launched by the   (   ) acting on suggestions given by  . It covers lucky draws for consumers as well as merchants. Under this ‘Lucky Grahak Yojana’, which began on December 25 last year, 15,000 consumers were to be awarded Rs 1,000 each daily for the next 100 days via a draw. Plus, there are weekly draws that still continue. The staggering volume of entries, the need for providing an assurance to participants of fair play, saw EY playing a role in the validation process.
 
 Siddharth V Behal, partner (governance risk & compliance services), KPMG India, concurs with the growing importance of validation services. “As complexity grows and companies come up with more and more innovative ways to engage with their audience or consumers, the necessity of an oversight mechanism also increases. Process validators are no longer just expected to tabulate final scores and announce winners, but are expected to review the end-to-end process design and highlight any gaps and provide recommendations to companies to strengthen their processes.”
 
 External validators help in various ways — from ensuring that an award carves a niche for itself to troubleshooting. “An industry association wanted to award its best performing members in the CSR space. Given the plethora of awards that exist in this space, we helped the association to carve a niche by associating the award with the use of technology for social good. To vet the claims made by the nominees of the outreach of their programmes, a process was introduced to ensure field validation,”said Pherwani.
 
 Behal avers that often clients do not understand the technological challenges or implementation issues in the process envisioned. “In one instance of a coupon code-based scheme, all the coupons were serially numbered. The customers were able to guess the subsequent coupon codes, which resulted in the client being besieged with manifold claims. KPMG was roped in to validate the entire process and recommend suitable changes.” KPMG suggested an algorithm to generate coupon codes so that these cannot be easily guessed. It was similar to credit cards’ 16-digit codes. It also suggested a limit to the number of points that can be accumulated in a month by the customer profile. In another case, a slogan contest was designed — the client expected over a lakh weekly entries, but failed to realise the amount of jury time that it would entail. “The entire process had to be changed to make it more manageable. A step-by-step walk-through of the process design helps to identify such risks and take preventive measures,” said Behal. Here, two alternatives were suggested: First, a screening jury that screens all entries and then sends the shortlist to the final jury, and second, selecting the best slogan after looking at the first 1,000 entries received in a day.
 
 “Professional firms also play a role in making the process easier for the participants. For a Bollywood award show, participation was made easier by having to dial a single number alone. Callers immediately got a message that their vote had been registered — by introducing this, audience participation increased manifold,” points out Pherwani
 
 The stakes involved are high, not just in terms of the monetary value of the award, but the brand reputation. External validators play a role in helping draft the rules of the contest or award, determine the eligibility criteria, vet the process and mitigate risks and ensure that the jury is independent — all this brings more credibility to the process and ensures a win-win.
 
 
