SURAT: Police in five  , Navsari, Valsad, Dang and Tapi say that there has been 60 per cent fall in the total number of   registered in January in Surat range compared to same month last year. The overall drop in the number of prohibition cases for three months up to January during the same period last year has been 45 per cent, police officials said.

 Police officials claimed that the drop in prohibition cases meant that they could save on precious working hours and the policemen could give more time to their core job which was investigation, detection, prevention, community policing,   and capacity building. The police were able to focus on law and order in the region with the pressure of dealing with high number of prohibition cases lessening, they added. 
 
 “On an average, 10 human working days are spent on each prohibition case starting with the arrest of accused, investigation of the case and his production before the court. The case keeps a team of cops busy,” said  ,  , Surat range.
 
 In comparison to 2016, there is fall of 1,367 prohibition cases in January this year in all the five districts in the region. A total of 2,343 prohibition cases were reported in January 2015 while this year, there have been only 976 cases in the one particular month. Similarly in November 2015, 2,942 cases and December 2015, 2,456 were reported while in November 2016 only 1,646 and December 2016, 1,779 cases were reported.
 
 “There is drop of 3,340 cases in the last three months when compared to the same period last year. This has directly saved over 33,400 human working days for us. We can use the time saved to improve policing through detection, investigation and capacity building,” Singh added.
 
 Stricter prohibition law and its implementation with a drive being launched against bootleggers of south Gujarat and the Union territory of Daman had helped reduce the number of cases drastically. Police have strengthened checking at the entry points to the state from Daman and Maharashtra to control liquor smuggling. 
 
