CHANDIGARH: In a major setback to the cash-strapped Chandigarh electricity department, the   ( ) has refused to approve funds to meet the revenue gap to the tune of Rs 208 crore.

 The refusal by the commission has compounded the problem of the department, which has already incurred an expenditure of Rs 242 crore from the consolidated fund in anticipation of recovery.
 
 The commission has also not agreed to approve Rs 33.74 crore on account of depreciation on gross fixed assets ( ). The commission has directed the department to approach the Union government to provide budgetary support to meet the revenue gap. The deficit will take a toll on the development works and service of the department, which is already reeling under cash crunch.
 
 As per official records, there are as many as 2.16 lakh electricity consumers of which, 1.75 lakh fall in the domestic category. UT superintending engineer MP Singh said that they are left with no option other than challenging the decision of the commission. “The commission will have to allow the revenue gap of Rs 208 crore in the subsequent tariff orders as there is no other source to recover this gap,” said Singh. 
 
 Making things difficult for the department, the commission has also not agreed to reduce the target of transmission and distribution (T&D) losses, which the department termed as unrealistic and difficult to achieve. The commission has set a target of T&D losses at 13.75 percent for the current financial year.
 
 According to norms of the commission, T&D losses cannot be more than 13.75 % of the total power purchased. But the losses have been above 15 % in the last three years, which has cost the state around Rs 40 crore. The department suffered T&D losses of 15.1 % in 2014, which rose to 15.17 % in 2015, and to 15.24 % in 2016. Ageing infrastructure and overloading of transformers are the main reasons for the losses. At present, there is only one 220-KV sub-station, 13 66-KV sub-stations and five 33-KV sub-stations. Five 66-KV sub-stations have completed their life span of 25 years.
 
 The department feels that the approved T&D loss target for the current financial year is neither based on the past actual T&D losses nor on any technical study. The energy input of the department is metered at 400kv for Nalagarh, 220kv for   and 220kv for Dhoolkot ( ), which has also led to higher T&D losses. The department also has to bear additional losses of inter-state circuit.
 
