ROHTAK: Exactly 12 months on, Haryana is on the edge once again with Jat community members threatening to take their agitation for reservation to the next level by observing February 19 as ‘balidan diwas’ (day of sacrifice). Special protests are being organized in memory of those killed in last year’s violent agitation.

 Although Jat community leaders have refused to give details on how they plan to observe the day, they have been talking about an ‘earthquake’ to ensure that the government hears their demands. Making matters worse is their refusal to talk to the government now.
 
 As many as 30 people were killed and about 300 injured in the violence that started on February 18 last year. What had shocked most people was the ease with which Haryana police capitulated before the mobs, providing no resistance at many places.
 
 Not wanting another confrontation, BJP’s Haryana president Subhash Barala on Friday reached Charkhi Dadri and extended an open invitation to Jat leaders to discuss their demands. Addressing protesters at a sit-in, he said dialogue was the way out. He also said the state government was ready to accept all demands within the ambit of law.
 
 One of the main demands has been dropping murder and attempt to murder charges against youths booked for the violence last year.
 
 All India Jat Arakshan Sangrash Samiti chief Yashpal Malik refused to hold any further talks and said on Friday, “We will reveal our strategy only during ‘balidan diwas’ on February 19.” He added that nearly 25 lakh people would gather at sit-ins across the state and 8 lakh would come to Jassia village alone. Malik will be present at the Jassia sit-in throughout Sunday.
 
 “The central government has come to realise the power of the Jat community in the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh elections,” he said. “If the government still doesn’t accept our demands, then municipal polls are due in New Delhi and the Jat community may boycott   there,” he said.
 
 The community leaders have campaigned against BJP in both states during assembly elections.
 
 Making the situation more tense is the presence of hundreds of supporters of controversial preacher Rampal who have reached Jassia to express solidarity with the Jat community. District officials have rushed a larger police force to the village backed by paramilitary personnel with anti-riot gear.
 
 
