GORAKHPUR:   playing   like   of   and Gopichandra, couplets of Kabir, and also popular phrases from the Ramayana could be easily seen on the roads of East UP until few years ago. 

 They sang: Gorakhpur mein Baba Gorakhnath/ Maghar mein Sant Kabir/ Azamgarh mein Baba Bhairavnath/ Teeno ek tapasvi jeev/ Le la Guru ji ka nam/ Jag mein amar Raja Bhartari / Chhor gae Ujjain ka raj (Baba Gorakhnath in Gorakhpur, Kabir in Maghar, Baba Bhairavnath in Azamgarh and all the three are saints and Gurus. Take the name of Guru. Long live King Bharthari who left the throne of Ujjain.)
 
 They believed in Islam but also followed Baba Gorakhnath, presenting a syncretic culture -- of Hinduism and Islam wrapped in the attractive garb of Sufism. As yokes between Hindus and Muslims, they earned respect of both. Today, the great tradition of Muslim Jogis seems on its way out.
 
 Muslim Jogis associate themselves with Baba Gorakhnath of Nath sect still reside in Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Sant Kabir, Balrampur and Azamgarh. Many families of Jogi cult live in Sahjanwa at Bargo village, but very few among them practice their old tradition.
 
 "My husband, Ali Raj, is a Jogi and I also belong to a Jogi family," said Munni. "He's journeying and will probably return in two weeks. We believe in Baba Gorakhnath and also practise Islam with five times namaz. We see no difference between Hindus and Muslims or any other religion because Daata (God) is one and we all take birth and die."
 
 Munni never went to school and learnt the philosophy of life from songs her father and husband sing. Asked about the decreasing number of Sufi Jogis, Munni said, "We are facing pressure from within and outside. Muslims don't accept us as Muslim and maulvis ask us to quit singing Ramayana and saffron attire.
 
 "On the other hand, Hindus also don't like us and many of them ask us to either leave Islam or leave Jogi garb and sarangi. We live in fear and to save us from such people, most young Jogis have left the tradition. We still follow both religions but I'm not sure of my children. No one asked religion from our forefathers but now people ask."
 
