PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked   not to harass students seeking loan under the state   Student Credit Card (SCC) scheme. 

 Under the SCC scheme, an undergraduate can get up to Rs 4 lakh as loan to pursue higher studies with the state government being the guarantor.
 
 Addressing the 60th meeting of the state-level bankers’ committee, Nitish said students were being harassed for  , which is part of the state government’s ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) initiative.
 
 “We have come to know that banks are not evincing interest in sanctioning SCC loans. Students are being forced to make rounds of the banks. The applications are being returned on trivial grounds. Please stop all this,” the CM told the senior officers of different banks, adding unless they improved the style of functioning of junior officers, work culture won’t improve.
 
 As it is, Nitish said, people in Bihar do not have a tendency to take loan from banks. “We are trying to convince them to take the benefit of the SCC,” he said and added the state’s gross enrolment ratio in higher education was just around 13%, which the state government wanted to increase to 50% by providing SCC loans.
 
 The CM also regretted that Bihar’s C-D ratio came down from 44.59% in 2014-15 to 43.94% in 2016-17. On the contrary, the C-D ratio is more than 100 in several developed states, he said.
 
 Coming down heavily on the bankers, the CM said 1,640 new branches were targeted to be opened this year, but only 139 branches have been opened so far. “The achievement is very poor,” he said.
 
 He also pointed out that banks have a policy to open a branch each for a population of 5,000. In Bihar, a gram panchayat has a population of around 10,000. “You open at least one branch in each gram panchayat. The state government is ready to provide accommodation,” he said.
 
 Assuring bankers to provide security, the CM said the state government would constitute a specialised armed force on the line of   to provide round-the-clock security in banks and other financial institutions. “One battalion will be headquartered in Begusarai and the other in Dumraon in Buxar district,” he said. 
 
