If you are   someone, it’s not a big deal these days. It is easy to find a date (thanks to dating apps!), and the society is now more open to the concept of  . 
But things were tough for couples in love a even a decade ago! People used to be super shy when it came to approaching someone they liked, and it required a lot of courage to take someone out for a date. 
 Amazed? Well, we were too! We got in touch with parents on how they pulled off their   and what was the experience exactly like. Here’s what they had to say…
 
 1. “We got married in 1985 and our families did not think once about letting us meet alone before finalising everything. There were no cell phones at that time and we had no means to communicate. One day, my husband’s sister came to my home and secretly asked me to meet him at a bus stand near ITO the next day. As planned, I went to meet him after office, and we had our first date under a tree near a bus stand. It lasted for around 15 minutes, and we both were blushing all the time.” - Anita Pandey, 57 
 
 2. “The society was very conservative when we got married in 1956. It used be difficult for girls to step out of home, going for a date would have invited death! Our parents took the decision of our marriage, and we were not allowed to meet even once. Hence, we saw each other for the first time on the day of our marriage itself. I was walking towards the stage with garland in my hands, and we had an eye contact. We did not talk out of shyness and kept exchanging glances. That was the only date we ever had!” - Raj Sharma, 70
 
  
  
 
 3. “We used to work in same office, and I had developed liking for her. One day, I intentionally left my scooter at office, and boarded the bus that she used to board every day to go home. I stood next to her in the bus, and that’s how we talked for the first time. I guess this can qualify as our very first date.” Rajesh Kumar, 69
 
 4. “We saw each other for the first time when our families met to almost finalise the marriage. We lived in different cities, so we only talked on phone and never got the opportunity to meet. We finally met on a day before our marriage. I went to her friend’s house, and she also sneaked out of her house to meet me there. We had a good 40 minutes date at the roof of that house. It has been 19 years now, and we still thank her friend for this opportunity.” Nitin Goel, 46 
 
  
  
 
 5. “We had a love marriage and used to study in the same college. We met for the first time in our college library, and he proposed me for marriage then and there only. I remember how he said me those words in the lowest tone possible, and nobody around realised what was happening. It was hilarious. We dated for around one year and it took us three months to convince our parents. ” Kavita Chaddha, 55
 
 (Images: shutterstock)
 
 
