Chennai: Marine and energy equipment provider Wartsila, which has installed about 250 power plants in India, on Thursday said it will focus on its services business in India and expects to post single-digit growth this year.

 Apart from installations, Wartsila also handles servicing and management for about 35 power plants, including boiler turbine generation stations, with a total output of over 1300 MW in India. “We have developed highly efficient plants and systems that can switch in seconds to full-load from half load; to half-load from zero. It is particularly useful for plants that are idle or running at half capacity. With the general downturn in the economy, we have seen a majority of clients' plants being operated at idle and half-capacity,” said Kimmo Kohtamaki, president and managing director, Wartsila India Pvt Ltd. Globally, Warstila said it has increased its markeshare in liquid-fuel based power plant installations of upto 500 MW to 10.7% from 10.5% earlier.
 
 As globally companies move towards usage of cleaner fuel options, Wartsila said that it was looking at setting up LNG terminals in Tamil Nadu. “We are in discussions with the government and private players on possible locations of at least 7-10 terminals. The LNG GAIL pipeline project will of course greatly boost the adoption of liquid fuels in this region,” said Kohtamaki.
 
 With 900 employees in India of a global workforce of 18,000, Wartsila said the Indian market was key to its development. “With the focus on renewable energy, we have been able to install hybrid plants in countries like Jordan. The hybrid plants can switch between thermal and solar power and we are actively seeking opportunities for the same in India,” said Kari Hietanen, executive vice president, Wartsila Corporation.Admitting to the overcapacity in the shipping market and the impact of declining oil prices in the offshore segment, Wartsila said that it is now focused on lifecycle power solutions. "Since there is very little organic growth of ship building capabilties in India, we are more focused on services. We are looking at system integration with better automation and ship design capability. For instance, with the help of IoT and big data, our systems have been able to suggest to our clients optimum routes for power efficiency," said Hietanen, adding that the Chennai Remote Monitoring Centre (RMC) will help its digitization drive with monitoring real time parameters of power plants in remote locations in India and other parts of Asia-Pacific, including in countries like Thailand, Australia and Bangladesh. 
 
 While the ship building market is seeing a downturn, Wartsila said it sees opportunity in certain segments like cruises, LNG carriers and ferries. Wartsila recently partnered with NYSE-listed Carnival Corp to expand its business in the cruise line. "We have increased our active engine base to 60 gigawatts from 181,000 megawatts a few years ago," said Hietanen. Apart from focusing on clean energy, the company is also looking to reduce its carbon footprint and work on more sustainable environment solutions. "For instance, we realise that when ships load ballast water and unload it thousands of miles from its origin -- it could result in contamination of waters and spread of organisms not native to the region. So we have introduced systems to clean ballast water before release," said Hietanen.
 
 
