In what is meant to be a treat for wildlife enthusiasts, the government of   declared 2017 as the Year of the Wild. The objective, say authorities, is to popularize wilderness tourism and eco-trails across the state. A noble initiative, say experts, but are authorities really able to mobilize awareness among citizens and make wildlife tourism an experience for them?

 Wildlife enthusiast  , for instance, quotes conservationist Praveen Bhargav when he asks, “What is eco-tourism really? Is it about ecology or economy? If it is only about economy, then we have a problem. Tourism is, no doubt, important. It is, after all, the sunshine industry, but it cannot be at the cost of our forests. The question, right now, is what is the objective of this declaration? If one of the objectives is to take more people into the forest and show them around, then do it properly. The current state of safari tourism in the state is, unfortunately, not really conducive.”
 
 For starters, wildlife tourism in Karnataka is very expensive. “With the money I spend for 10 days at the  , I can easily do five days at   in Africa. Safaris in Karnataka are at least 25% more expensive than most others,” says wildlife photographer  . Dinesh concurs and asks, “Who are we targeting here? Only the elite of the world?”
 
 The second issue, state the duo, is the monopoly by the government in conducting safaris and treks. “It is important that control over activities in the forest rest with the government, but that should be about setting policies in place for regulated private participation. Healthy competition will only benefit tourism in the area," says Dinesh. Ashish adds, "The whole country is using petrol Gypsies for safaris, while we are still allowing smoke spewing diesel vans and buses into our forests. When I go to a safari anywhere other than Karnataka, the trip starts at 6.30 am and ends at 10.30 am, and another that starts at 2.30 pm and goes on till sunset and you are ideally spending eight hours in the jungle. Here, because of the monopoly by Jungle Lodges, irrespective of where you stay, you still have to queue up at their facility for a safari. Unlike other parks, you cannot book your own vehicle and are bundled with a random group on the trip. And after all that, you get just about two hours for the morning safari and another two in the evening. The government should allow resorts to offer this facility."
 
  
  
 Third, say Dinesh and Ashish, is the increased number of eco-trails and treks on offer. "You can't just open up the forests and allow people to do whatever they want. A camp fire, for instance, can destroy parts of the forest, if even the smallest ember is not put out properly," says Dinesh. Ashish's concern, though, is whether guides on duty are trained in even basic first aid. "Safaris and treks are not just about spotting a tiger, deer or elephant. If you are to encounter wildlife in its truest sense, you will come across snakes, spiders, scorpions and many other bugs that have a nasty sting. Are guides equipped to handle such situations or will a trekker who's been bitten by a snake return as a body bag? For effective wildlife tourism, you need guides who are not only trained for contingencies like these, but also equipped with the right first aid measures. Visitors should also be given guidelines to follow inside the forest much in advance, and not minutes prior to boarding the safari vehicle. For instance, how many people know that you should not use perfume in a forest? It attracts bees and despite my years of experience, I used a deodorant once and was stung. People should be told the dos and don'ts in terms of their clothes and what to carry into the forest. Authorities have to crackdown on pollution caused by humans in the forest," he says.
 
 And last, but not the least, proper toilet facilities are the need of the hour. "Visitors should not be forced to answer nature's call out in the wild. They could be relieving themselves on an insect colony," Ashish signs off.
 
 
 
 
  
  
