This week was packed with some very shocking yet important health news. To ensure that you don't miss any, we bring you a weekly roundup. Here is this week's aggregation of the latest news stories on health, fitness and diet.

 
 
 Every 33 seconds, a person dies in India of a heart attack. 
 
 
 
 A potent malaria vaccine with virtually no side-effects has cleared clinical trials. 
 
 
 
 The human appendix, which is thought to be of little use to the body, may actually serve as a reservoir for beneficial gut bacteria, a new study has found. 
 
 
  
 Delhi leads the list of most polluted cities in the country followed by several in UP , Jharkhand, Haryana and Bihar, a report by Greenpeace India has revealed.
 
 
 
 While overweight people are distinguished on the basis of their Body Mass Index (BMI), overfat people may have an average weight but a dangerously high level of fat percentage below or above the belt or may be around other body parts.
 
 
  
 Believe it or not, scientists at Boston University claim to have discovered a game-changing blood test that could help predict lifespans.
 
 
  
 In a new discovery that might challenge the existing knowledge of cancer and methods to treat it, researchers have found cancer cells spread to organs much earlier than was thought.
 
 
 
 
 is common in most cultures of the world and is usually associated with religious events. Now science finds that going off food can not only help you lose weight but also improve the quality of life.
 
 
 
 A very satisfying feast of kung pao chicken, sweet-sour pork or just about any Chinese dish could, at times, be accompanied with a bout of headache, giddiness or rashes.
 
 
 
 Retroviruses, the family of viruses that includes HIV, are almost half a billion years old - several hundred million years older than previously thought, claim scientists from Oxford University.
 
 
 
 The rate of elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) has increased substantially across the globe between 1990 and 2015, researchers report.
 
 
 
 As Mumbai full marathon approaches, doctors have urged participants not to practice excessively as it may have adverse affects on the heart, especially for the adults and senior citizens, said doctors.
 
 
 
 According to National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research, an estimated of 2.5 million people are living with cancer in India. 
 
 
 
 The Health Ministry proposal, which has the backing of President Vladimir Putin, would make Russia the first country in the world to completely phase out tobacco. 
 
 
 
 Your new year resolution of hitting the gym to indulge in some weight lifting exercises may not only help you tone those muscles, but also lower the risk of cardiovascular disease as well as Type 2 diabetes, researchers say.
 
 
 
