NEW DELHI: Former Kerala DGP T P Senkumar on Saturday moved the Supreme Court to initiate   against the state's chief secretary, Nalini  , for not issuing the official orders re-appointing him as DGP as directed by the apex court.

 The Supreme Court had on April 24 held that the Kerala government's decision to sack Senkumar from his post was illegal and directed the state government to reinstate him. The court had said that there was no justifiable reason on part of state govt to remove him from the post.
 
 As official letter for his reinstatement has not been issued so far, Senkumar filed   accusing the chief secretary of not complying with apex court. He termed Netto's alleged reluctance to issue orders to re-instate him as "willful and deliberate disobedience" of the court.
 
 In his contempt petition, filed through advocate Haris Beeran, Senkumar said that he had written to the chief secretary the very next day after the verdict and followed it up shortly with a second letter with a certified copy of SC verdict. He said that no step had been taken so far for his reinstatement
 
 "The intention of the Respondent Contemnor (Netto), who is the authority to issue orders of reinstatement, seems to delay the implementation wilfully so that the petitioner will not get the fruits of the decree which he has got. The contemnor is also conscious of the fact that once this court closes for summer recess on 9th may 2017, it reopens only on 3rd July, 2017 which will make the petitioner remediless and thus frustrate the judgment of this court," Senkumar said in his petition.
 
 He said his retirement is due in over a month's time and the State was intentionally trying to delay his reinstatement. He pleaded the court to grant him extension beyond his retirement so that he could complete his two year tenure.
 
 "The contemnor is in gross contempt of this Court’s directions in as much as there is no ambiguity in the directions issued by this court. The contemnor ought to have issued appropriate orders on the next date itself in compliance of the directions of this Court. It is submitted that the Court may consider to extend the tenure of the petitioner as state police chief for the period which was illegally taken off from him," he said in his petition.
 
 "The petitioner was appointed as the state police chief on May 22, 2015 for a period of 2 years and he was removed, illegally, as found by this Court on June 1, 2016. Therefore, going by the principles of the judgment of this court in Prakash Singh’s case, he is entitled for his remaining tenure irrespective of his superannuation," He said.
 
 
