Kolkata: The first day of the traffic movement rejig at Park Circus crossing, to make way for construction of the west-bound ramp to link Maa and   flyovers, saw little chaos on the road, courtesy heavy deployment of policemen and widespread online and offline campaigns by Kolkata Police. However, officers said they would face the real test around this time next month, when the schools in the area reopen after the summer vacations.

 Cops had feared traffic snarls on Circus Avenue, Nasiruddin Road,   and Syed Amir Ali Avenue on Sunday when they closed a portion of   On Monday morning, however, there was little chaos on the apprehended stretches. But traffic movement on Maa flyover was slow with several buses that usually don’t come to Park Circus crossing landing at the seven-point junction heading towards Shakespeare Sarani and Park Street to take   Bose Road. That resulted in increase in waiting time for west-bound vehicles descending from Maa flyover, which in turn choked the mouth and slowed down traffic above it. The mouth of the AJC Bose Road flyover was choked, too, with a portion of Circus Avenue dug up, and cars coming from Park Circus and   merging at the place. On an average, it took motorists around 12-15 minutes to reach the mouth of the AJC Bose Road flyover from Park Circus, a barely 100m stretch.
 
 “We had anticipated more rush and more chaos on the first day. But I would say that, apart from minor jams at some pockets, traffic movement was pretty smooth. Whatever problems that there are will ease in the next four or five days,” said assistant commissioner of police (II) Vineet Goyal, who was at Park Circus crossing overseeing the scenario on Monday.
 
 To ensure smoother flow of traffic, the crossing of Syed Amir Ali Avenue and Nasiruddin Road had at least six officers and a sergeant, who stood in the middle of the road, asking buses and goods vehicles coming from Congress Exhibition Road to take a right towards Park Circus. The road was made inaccessible to buses and though small cars were allowed, they were asked to take the AJC Bose Road flyover or head towards Circus Row.
 
 “There was a small mistake on our part. We made all the banners informing the changes in English. We have already asked the department to install banners in Bengali and Hindi. This will make our task easier,” said a sergeant.
 
 The officer, however, added the real test for them would begin from the middle of June when schools in the area – La Martiniere for Boys, La Martiniere for Girls, Birla High School and Ashok Hall – reopen. “The volume of cars will surge once the schools open. We just hope we are able to get this new traffic arrangement in order by that time,” said an officer.
 
 
