Bhopal: The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) will start functioning in Madhya Pradesh from May and property buyers can approach the authority to get their grievances addressed.   has been constituted in state and a final shape is being given before it starts taking up the grievances.

 Under the RERA, details of entire commercial and residential projects will be online. A developer has to get himself registered before starting a project, list all project clearance details and update about the project, including the exact number of units sold and unsold in every three months.
 
 Not only developers, real estate agents too would have to get themselves registered under the RERA. Broadly, authority will ensure that a developer delivers what he promised to a buyer as mentioned in the sale agreement, including the adherence to the completion schedule.
 
 As per the set criteria, any project, commercial or residential with a minimum of 8 units and more have to be registered under RERA. Currently, the software is being developed in which the developers and real estate agents have to list the details in a set format. Besides, rules and regulations are being laid down.
 
 Former chief secretary of MP, Antony deSa, is heading the authority. He told TOI, MP is among the few states in the country to constitute the real estate authority. Objective of RERA is not to pressurise developers, but to safeguard the interest of buyers by ensuring that they have not been left cheated.
 
 RERA will not control the pricing of projects, but will see the things in a practical aspect so the entire process becomes smooth and transparent, he added.
 
 From its office in Bhopal, the authority would cover the entire state. Officials said if the volume of work increases, they can consider of opening offices in other parts of state too.
 
 State is also waiting for the Centre to notify few important sections under RERA. Officials said the Centre is yet to notify section 3 of the Act. The day it is notified all ongoing and incomplete projects would also come under the ambit of RERA. Projects that have already been completed will not fall under RERA.
 
 Officials clarified that the authority would however not intervene in the work of any other government agency like the municipal corporation, which issues the building permission or any other department. It will enter into the picture when interest of buyers is compromised in any way. The penalty on defaulter developers would vary from case to case, officials said.
 
 The real estate agents would be registered on a five years basis. They will have to furnish all details, including income tax returns and experience of working in the industry. It would be unlawful if an agent works without getting registered under RERA.
 
 Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) Bhopal president, Wasiq Husain said CREDAI welcomes RERA. It will lead to transparency and increase trust between developers and buyers. The only concern is it should not be implemented in the on-going projects or projects that have been started in past, else it will lead to complications, he said.
 
 GFX.....
 
 THE RERA: HOW IT WILL SHAPE UP
 
 From May 1 buyers would be able to get property-related grievances addressed
 
 Commercial or residential projects with 8 units and more will come under its ambit
 
 Project detail would be listed with authority, including permissions and number of units sold and unsold
 
 Authority will not control the pricing of projects
 
 It will ensure a developer delivers what he promised to buyer at time of sale
 
 Real estate agents too have to get themselves registered
 
 Real estate agents would be registered on five years basis.
 
 
