MEERUT: The   are probably the only community in the world for which protection of trees and wildlife is an article of faith. Not many would have expected that a massive haul of animal parts and meat would be found at the house of   – the man around who the case revolves, and whose family is from Rajasthan. Incensed, the community has vowed to ensure that the family is punished for “bringing shame” to all Bishnois.
 
 It is the Bishnoi community of Rajasthan who had filed a case against Bollywood actor   for poaching blackbuck in 1998. Incidentally, four skulls of chinkaras were also found at Prashant’s house.
  
 Forest officials said it was shocking that a prominent member of a community which has such a sterling record in wildlife conservation would be involved in poaching, that too at this massive scale.
  
 “We were surprised to see the involvement of a Bishnoi family in this case. The community is known to preserve nature, including trees and wildlife,” said Mukesh Kumar, chief conservator of forests, Meerut zone.
  
 Bishnois are known to have even sacrificed their lives to save deer. However, nine skulls of deer (including chinkara, blackbuck and barking deer) — eight with their antlers intact — and two trophies, one each of blackbuck and sambar, as well as antlers of three sambar were seized from Prashant’s residence in Meerut’s Civil Lines area.
  
 Shocked by the case, Sunil Bishnoi, national general secretary,  , said, “Our community is simply shocked to see that someone from among us could play a part in killing animals. Either this Prashant Bishnoi is a fake name, or, if he is indeed a Bishnoi, it is a matter of shame to the entire community. All of us condemn his act.”
  
 The organisation issued a press release saying that they will do everything in their capacity to make sure that Prashant gets a befitting punishment according to the law.
  
 “Strict investigation should be done regarding the activities of the father and son, so that nobody – whether from our community or otherwise – ever thinks of hurting animals in any way,” said Sunil.
  
 It should be noted that in July 2016, the Bishnoi community was appreciated for their   initiatives by Union minister of state for environment Anil Madhav Dave, who had asked the community to continue their efforts, saying they should not lose heart due to any adverse situation.
 
