"I prefer to be quiet and have consciously cut down on the publicity of my films,” says Sandalwood’s Challenging Star Darshan, as he made time for a quick chat between a day of back-to-back interviews. The actor awaits the release of his 49th film, Tarak, helmed by  . “This is a family entertainer. It is different from the previous films that I have done. This is what I prefer doing, actually; I like to steer clear of the normal,” says Darshan.
On his choice of scripts, he says, “I need the script to appeal to me at that moment — that is all that it takes. I don’t keep any parameters in my working pattern. The only thing I am rigid about is to say ‘no’ when something doesn’t appeal to my sensibility.”
 Given that he shifted to playing   immediately after his NRI-boy act in Tarak, we wonder how Darshan manages to switch between characters. “I always say that I have two faces — good and bad. The same holds good for cinema as well. I take on roles according to the requirements,” he says.
 Darshan has been particular about getting filmmakers to reduce the hype around his films. “When there are expectations, the audience form their own story in their head, which can be a disadvantage. This is one of the reasons I prefer to keep the publicity low. Viewers would’ve already built a story with expectations, which might not always match up,” he says. 
 Even with the advent of social media and troll pages, Darshan has taken personal interest in ensuring that his fan group online —   — works closely with him and does not go overboard. “I am one of the boys of D Company myself. I am really grateful to the love that they bestow on me, both on social media and off it. We might not meet daily, but they respect my decisions to not share too much information. All they do is leave a message, wanting to talk about anything, and I get back to them,” says Darshan. 
 Even for Tarak, Darshan has the same request. “Watch the film without any expectations, you can enjoy it better,” he explains. And he is also pretty point blank about his reach to the audience. “I don’t know if anyone else accepts this or says it, but my market is just for three days. After that it is purely based on the content. Whoever the star, his face value is worth just three days — Friday, Saturday and Sunday,” he says.
 
 
 
 Tarak is a good blend of a mass and class film, and sees Darshan and me teaming up for the first time. The movie has all the ingredients that make for a family entertainer, which comes at the right time — the festive season. Festivals are a time to spend time with the family, and you can do that by watching this film with your family. — Prakash Jayaram, director-producer
 (Shri Jaimatha Combines and Shree Chowdeshwari Cine Creations)
 
 
