PUNE: The Bombay high court has ruled that no indulgence can be shown to a candidate who remains negligent throughout the state public service commission’s selection process despite clear instructions regarding rules of selection.

 The bench of   and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi on Thursday quashed and set aside the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal’s order of July 14, 2016, that directed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission to conduct the interview of a woman candidate from Gokhalenagar police lines in Pune for the police sub-inspector’s post within three months. The MPSC had moved the   against this order. 
 
 The candidate, who had applied through the OBC (female) category for the police sub inspector’s exam-based selection process in 2014, was placed under non-eligible category as she failed to furnish an original copy of the non-creamy layer ( ) certificate at the time of her interview. The MPSC selection rules did make it mandatory for candidates to furnish original documents at the time of interview. 
 
 The woman had cleared her MPSC pre- and main-exams as well as the physical test and moved the MAT in Mumbai against the MPSC’s decision on the grounds that she was able to furnish the certificate a day or two after the deadline because of circumstances not under her control as there was a strike in the tehsil office which issues the certificate. 
 
 In its petition before the high court, the MPSC argued that making an exception to the selection rules would be an arbitrary act for those who submitted their papers on time. 
 
 The bench referred to the selection process and observed that the woman had ample opportunity to secure the certificate, but she applied for one on March 9, 2015, i.e. five days after receiving the letter for physical test and interview. "If it is so, then, it goes without saying that it was total inaction and callous   on her part, as a result of which she could not produce the certificate at the time of interview. Hence, now she cannot contend that, on account of the alleged strike in the tehsil office, in respect of which no details are given as to since when the strike had started and when it ended, she could not produce the NCL certificate," the bench observed. 
 
 Morever, she got the certificate three days before the March 20, 2015, deadline, but submitted the same three days after the deadline. "On facts she has failed to show her diligence in obtaining NCL certificate," the bench said pointing out that she was well aware about the necessity of the certificate since the time the advert for the selection process was issued. She never informed the MPSC in advance that there would be delay in getting the NCL certificate, the bench said. "In our considered opinion, therefore, such candidate, who has utterly remained negligent throughout the selection process does not deserve the   granted by the tribunal," the bench added.
 
