CHENNAI: By crippling the opposition in the number game for now, TN chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has claimed victory in the first round of the current political brinkmanship.

 Palaniswami is emboldened by two factors - the Centre wants the   government to complete its residual term and deny the opposition   – an alliance partner of the Congress – any chance of getting closer to the corridors of power. Two, the all-important referee, speaker P Dhanapal, is in the EPS-OPS camp.
 
 The CM pleaded, threatened, intimidated and finally struck against the rebels. For now, Palaniswami has got a breather by getting the 18 rebel MLAs disqualified for revolting against his leadership. In the 234-member House, Jayalalithaa’s R K Nagar seat is vacant. After the disqualification of the rebels, the effective strength of the   has been reduced to 215. Speaker’s decision on disqualification is not the final call on the matter though as it is bound to be challenged in multiple courts. Palaniswami, meanwhile, seeks to remain safe in office.
 
 Palaniswami has to get a minimum of 108 votes to survive a trial of strength and he seems all set to secure more than that, but his majority in the assembly will be a question mark if the 18 disqualified members are permitted to vote based on any court directive.
 
 All said and done, the opposition has missed an opportunity to pull down a minority government. One month into the present crisis, the DMK has remained unsure whether to give notice for a no-confidence motion against the government or not because it was not confident of securing the support of the rebel AIADMK MLAs. “The DMK has been missing such opportunities for a long time,” said political analyst Gnani Sankaran.
 
 What could unfold next is open horse trading of MLAs. The possible key players in this war of one-upmanship are Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam, T T V Dhinakaran and DMK working president M K Stalin.
 
 Dhinakaran, despite losing the initial battle, should be credited for holding 18 MLAs together as a single block. Outwardly the rebel MLAs have been fighting for securing some political space for Dhinakaran in the AIADMK. It makes one wonder as to whether these MLAs are so naïve to fight someone else’s political survival. Obviously, there is more than what meets the eye. A senior leader, who had negotiated with Palaniswami on behalf of Dhinakaran said, “The only demand TTV had was that he should be allowed to do politics. Edappadi did not allow TTV to even visit the party office. All the time Edappadi kept saying he was acting based on orders and that TTV should show patience”.
 
 Having lost the initial battle, the rebels could get back to the negotiating table, dump Dhinakaran and plead with Palaniswami for truce outside the purview of courts. “They can give a written explanation to the show cause notice to speaker and request him to withdraw the disqualification. Palaniswami will be only happy to strike a compromise with them. Even Dhinakaran is keen on a compromise with Edappadi, but in his case much depends on how BJP wants to handle him,” said Sankaran.
 
