KOLKATA: Those who have stopped eating   following the ‘plastic’ scare may go back to their old habit. Preliminary tests on the yolk and egg white done separately on the sample complainant   had submitted to the   (KMC) have found nothing unusual.

 A team of scientists from the   University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, which supervised the tests, has only detected a pungent smell in the 36 sample. It could be something related to incubation and storage. The final report will be sent to the KMC on Wednesday. 
 
 “Temperature variation and timing could be two probable reasons. It is very important that the eggs are sold in markets at a particular time. Those stored for days and sold just a day or two before hatching are not ideal for consumption. I am not talking about loose sale but those who sell packed eggs should mention the date of collection and expiry on the packets,” said Jadavpur University food technology professor  .
 
 But then, are the artificial eggs that have taken the Internet by storm non-existent? “No at all. The world has the technology to manufacture artificial eggs. One such product is egg analogue, which is produced in the US. It is an artificial mix of sodium alginate with a colloidal gel having albumin, beta carotene and other proteins. It is anti-bacterial and cholesterol-free. But the production cost is much higher than the egg you get in the market. Go and check at a medical shop how much an albumin injection costs. Traders can’t afford such a mix at a low cost,” the JU professor said. 
 
 The KMC isn’t calling off the drive against “plastic eggs” though. “We will wait for the final test report before we take a decision. But we will not seize egg samples based on a panic call from a consumer. The consumer now has to make a specific complaint citing that somebody in the family has fallen ill after consuming egg,” said KMC mayor-in-council member Atin Ghosh.
 
 Though the CM has assured that there’s nothing wrong in eggs, it was not enough to remove the scare. Consumer Jayanta   is waiting for a go-ahead from KMC. “I prefer to wait for some more days,” Roy said.
 
