BENGALURU: The   and Global 3D experience major   formally announced the setting up of a Centre of Excellence in ‘Aerospace and Defence’ in the state, aimed at providing high-end training for nearly 1,600 engineers every year.

 Karnataka Biotechnology and Information Technology Services (KBITS), a state government enterprise, and Dassault Systemes signed a memorandum of understanding to this effect on Thursday. After signing the MoU, IT-BT minister Priyank Kharge said the new centre is aimed at increasing the employability of students and professional skills of the aerospace industry in the country. “Bengaluru being a globally recognized technology hub, the endeavour of the state government will further strengthen its position in aerospace and defence sectors,” he added.
 
  (VTU), as the academic partner, will provide space for the Centre of Excellence on its campus in Muddenahalli in Chikkaballapur district, 60km from Bengaluru.
 
 Kharge said the step will help attract foreign and domestic investments to the state, since there is ready availability of highly skilled professionals trained in the latest technology used in the aerospace and defence industry, and enhance the practical skills of students and certify them for employability.
 
 Samson Khaou, managing director, India, Dassault Systemes, said: “India is ranked number one in the world in defence imports and there is great opportunity to increase the manufacturing and innovation activities in this sector towards gaining self-sufficiency. There is an acute shortage of skilled engineers and professionals in the aerospace and defence sectors. The Centre of Excellence in Aerospace and Defence will act as a catalyst of growth by making world-class skilled professionals available to the sector.”
 
 VTU will also contribute in the form of providing necessary infrastructure such as classrooms, meeting rooms, meeting the operational cost of administration like manpower, electricity, internet cost and maintenance.
 
