COIMBATORE: In a rescue operation that lasted 24 hours, an elephant calf that fell into a 60ft-deep open well at   near   on Tuesday evening was sedated and lifted out with a crane and released into the forest on Thursday morning.

 The eight-year-old calf was part of an   that ventured into the Thirumaallur area in search of food and water. The animal got separated from the herd and fell into the open well.   and anti-poaching watchers who were patrolling the area on Tuesday heard the cries of an animal in distress and found the animal in the well in an area covered with the invasive  .
 
 Personnel of the forest department and the fire and rescue services began the rescue operation on Wednesday morning. "Animals generally feel the difference in the ground level, but since the well was not fenced the animal might have slipped and fallen into it," said environmentalist  , who saw through the rescue operation.
 
 The lower 40ft of the well had concrete rings. On Wednesday night, forest officials cut a path up to the edge of the concrete area. "We removed the sand to make way for a vehicle to reach this point. This took us almost the whole night and a few hours in the morning," said Periyanaickenpalayam ranger Palani Raja.
 
 Throughout the operation, the young elephant was fed water, jackfruit and sugarcane at regular intervals. It was also given medicines concealed in the jackfruit.
 
 On Thursday morning, the calf was given a mild sedative. "By 11am it calmed down. We sent down four experienced mahouts into the well who tied belts with hooks around its legs, neck and body," said forest veterinarian Dr Ashokan. The animal, which weighed around two tonnes, was lifted out with a crane.
 
 The calf had sustained bruises on the head, trunk and hind legs in the fall. It was given a bath and medicine to help it come out of sedation. "The calf immediately stood up and began running into the forest. We formed four teams and followed the animal who joined its mother and what appeared to be a sibling which had been waiting on the forest fringes since last night," Dr Ashokan said.
 
