He is a typical boy next door. A local lad, with a toothy grin, who is finding his feet in Tinsel Town. Meet  , a fourth generation Vizagite, making waves in Telangana with his dialect. His grandfather Raavi Sastry, one of the legends of Telugu literature, was the first Telugu author to write stories in the North Andhra dialect. Vishwa Dev is an engineer. He shifted to Hyderabad to find work. In an interview with   of TOI, Vishwa Dev speaks about his experience as an actor and his entry into Telugu films. He also talks about his launch film, Pitta Goda, which was scripted entirely in Telangana dialect. The film was shot in Godavarikhani.

 
 
 Director Anudeep wanted to try new faces as this was his first film as a director. That was where I got to audition and though initially I was considered too urban for the role, as it is based in rural Telangana, I had to go for a complete makeover and shed the urbane look. More importantly for me I was involved with the movie right from the beginning. So I had the advantage of time which helped me learn the Telangana dialect reasonably well.
 
 
 No, I’m an engineer by qualification. However, I did shoot for a short film sometime back called ‘Two Sat under the Cuckoo’s Nest’. I also played with a rock band — The Bench Crowd — in Vizag. However, I was never involved in show biz and the movie industry.
 
 
 
 
 Definitely yes, there is no doubt about it. I consider myself lucky for being launched by Suresh Productions. It is definitely a shot in the arm. The movie was produced by Suresh Productions and Sunshine Cinemas. Sunshine Cinemas made movies such as Uyyala Jampala, Ashta Chamma and  .
 
 
 
 No. I have absolutely no training and was totally raw when I was roped in the film. However, I learnt much from the crew, who helped me in picking basic acting skills with their tips and suggestions. I went to Godavarikhani to get into the character. I interacted with local youngsters, picked up their body language and their catch, stock and pet phrases. Their likes and dislikes and the little bit about the domestic environment as well. This helped me design my look and clothes as well. I was given the green signal by the director to design my look.
 
 
 
 Well… I guess the major differences lie in the dialect and the body language. Rural youth, whether they be from Telangana or Andhra Pradesh, are probably more confined to their surroundings and are less global. Otherwise I could completely relate to it as we had our own ‘Pitta Goda’ in Visakhapatnam, where my friends and I would while away time, and just not bother about the future.
 
 
 
 Yes, I actually could. This was because I could relate to everything that the character stands for. A vagabond youth, taking it easy, this is something that everybody, who has gone to college, goes through. That made the character very life-like. All that I had to do was jog my memory and get in sync. Moreover, I was in awe of the entire experience and made that extra effort to get in sync.
 
 
 It was absolutely thrilling. However, I must say that the character is not your typical hero and he is more of a boy next door, who is constantly getting into trouble, his own folks are vexed with him and is anything but ambitious. This is where the girl as in the heroine changes his life. The movie is all about the transformation, as far as my character is considered. In a way my character grows to become a hero.
 
 
 
 I did not tell anyone about my grandfather. However, when people got to know that I am Rachakonda Viswanadha Sastry’s grandson, some of them definitely asked why I did not tell them about it. This is partly because I’m still discovering a lot of things about him and I must confess that I thought it would be better if I did not throw his name around.
 
 
 Yes. The film was released in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. And also in the USA (15 theatres in 15 states). I guess the response was quite positive. The trailer got two million clicks on Facebook. I got a few thousand messages from well-wishers on my Facebook account. The audience in Telangana were actually surprised that I was from north Andhra and had to learn the local dialect. Some of them thought I was from Telangana. This made me happy.
 
 
 
 The story is simple. It is a no thrills, no frills movie. And it also dealt with a lot of issues that were making news around the time of release, such as demonetisation. In fact the idea of demonetisation was roped in before it actually happened. At the end of the day, the movie is a tale about love, friendship and revenge.
 
 
 The producer and the director gave me all the support they could. I am grateful to them for the manner in which they stood by me. It was also a new and fascinating experience for me. Acting in a full-fledged commercial movie as a protagonist is something I could never have imagined. The only thing that worried me is the audience being judgemental. Thankfully they were not. I also got a lot of help from my co-actors of Uyyala Jampala fame. 
 
 
 
 Right now, I’m just taking things one at a time. It is always better to be grounded and cautious when treading such ground. There are a few offers coming my way. Hopefully I will make the right choices.
 
