PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Santosh Holi covers a distance of 25km on his daily commute to work from his home in Moshi. Over the past 149 days, Holi has cycled through 15,400km and is trying to ensure his name features in the Guinness Book of World Records.

 In his pursuit, Holi has also inspired several residents of Pimpri Chinchwad to pedal to office at least once a week. The residents, in turn, have formed groups to motivate other officegoers to use bicycles to reach their offices. Increasingly, a number of local residents are using bicycles or public transport to get to their workplace.
 
 Bhosari resident Nitin Londhe said, “I travel 15km to 20km daily on the   from my home in Bhosari to my ayurvedic consultancy clinic in Moshi. My son and daughter, who are five-year-old twins, also cycle daily to school. I have formed a group of cyclists who travel to Dighi hill,   and other destinations in and around Pimpri Chinchwad. We try to motivate people to use cycles to get to their office since it also helps conserve the environment.”
 
 While going green is an inspiration for some, for others cycling is a way to remain fit. Ajit Mane, a resident of Thergaon, said, “Doctors had advised me to perform aerobic exercises to lose weight. Earlier, I would travel to my workplace in a car. At first, I started cycling to work once a week and, for the past four months, I have started cycling 20km daily.” 
 
 Cycling to work seems to be the most popular option among residents but there are also residents who have formed groups to travel to various destinations. Most enthusiasts hope to inspire colleagues and neighbours into taking up cycling so the trend continues to pick up. 
 
 Mahesh Pathak, of Bijlinagar in Akurdi, has formed a group of 50 people who cycle regularly to work. The group also organises bicycle trips to tourist spots every three months.
 
 Traffic woes, however, remain. “Two-wheelers and those travelling by cars and other vehicles tend to dismiss cyclists and do not give us space. Sometimes, we struggle through congestions,” said Pathak. 
 
 Nevertheless, the cyclists may get a shot in the arm with Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s Bus Rapid Transit cell planning dedicated cycling tracks along four BRT roads. Spokesperson of the cell Vijay Bhojane said, “Cycle tracks of 2.5m width are being created on both sides of the four BRT roads in PCMC. Similar tracks have also been created on both sides along the 8km Nashik-Wakad BRT Road and 14.5km Sangvi-Kiwale BRT road. Work of creating tracks on both sides of the 10.25km Kalewadi   and 5km Bhakti Shakti chowk-Kiwale BRT road is in progress.”
 
 
