Actor   has been keeping busy. Films on hand, promotions, a dash to   to launch his period film  ... The man's been on the move. Amid all this bustling about, we made him sit down for a conversation about all that's happening with him, and also on how his latest release,   suffered due to last week's GST-Local Tax-exhibitors' standoff that resulted in all the theatres in TN downing shutters for that weekend...

 
 It was a dream come true for me. Sangamithra was the first Tamil movie to be launched in Cannes. Being a part of such a historical moment is a unique experience. I had been longing to work with Sundar anna for a long time and the movie has music by AR Rahman Sir. I live near Rahman sir's studio and my father had worked with him. I remember meeting him in his studio along with my dad. I have always wished to work with Rahman Sir. So, for me, it is like too many dreams coming true all at once!
 
 
 Tik Tik Tik is my second outing with director Shakti Soundar Rajan, after Miruthan. The movie is the first Indian space thriller and has an exciting script. I come across as a magician in the movie and my son Aarav is acting too. He plays my son in the movie.
 
 
 Initially, I was sceptical about making him act since he is someone who can't sit in one place for even five minutes. But while he was on the set, I realised that he has no qualms about waiting for hours with makeup on. I think he has acting in his genes and I'm happy about it.However, there's a flip side, too. Once, while shooting a combination scene, I skipped my dialogues, while he delivered his lines pucca. When the director said cut, he came to me and said, `Appa, you forgot to tell this dialogue,' and started telling it on the spot. I felt thoroughly embarrassed and my first reaction was to check whether someone was watching us, and has anyone noticed my goof-up.Since then I have become extra careful while shooting with him.
 
 
 I think it's a healthy way of working.There's nothing wrong in teaming up with a set of people with whom you have delivered a successful project. With regards to heroines, there's a real dearth of talented actresses and often we end up choosing the same heroines. That said, I have plans to work with director Vijay again.You completed 14 years in films in June.
 
 
 I started off with my brother and director  's films. From a chocolate boy to action hero -I could do a variety of roles. I have had my share of ups and downs. But of late I have been trying to choose a variety of roles from among the scripts I receive.
 
 
 I am pretty sensitive and I will admit that it's not easy for me to handle failure.However, my family is a pillar of support. My wife Aarthi has played a huge part in making me handle both success and failures in the same way . When my films become hits, she normally doesn't show much enthusiasm. But whenever my films do not do well at the BO, she pampers me with costly bikes, cars and such gifts. Initially, I didn't realise that, but slowly I understood that like a mom pleasing a child in trouble, she has been showering her affection and care when I was in distress.
 
 
 My father has been a guiding force for me and my family used to help me arrive at a decision when it comes to choosing films. However, when the film Bhooloham came to me, they were sceptical. But I was very positive about doing the role and I took a decision to go against their wish and signed the film.They were actually worried as to how I would be able to convincingly portray the role of a boxer from North Madras.But I put in a lot of hard work and could prove my critics wrong. Since then, I have been selecting movies all on my own. You can't call it a very calculated move, but I go by my gut feelings.
 
 
 That's true. I get to showcase my dancing skills in movies in song sequences alone.Though I am keen to do such a movie, no such script has come my way . However, my brother Mohan Raja has assured that he would be making a full-fledged dance movie with me in the lead. We are planning it as my 25th film.
 
 
 Not at all. I am actually excited to be part of such a magnum opus venture. The movie has been conceived by Sundar anna much before Baahubali but things have fallen in place only now. I will have to bulk my body , almost double. Since the movie is kind of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, I don't mind allocating almost one year and a half for the same. Also, it will be released in two parts. From the sets to the creative elements, most of the props are almost ready. I have to get trained in various aspects for the film, which will be taking place in Hyderabad. I am truly looking forward to the shooting to begin.
 
 
 The movie is a dream project of director Vijay and it has been in his mind for the past several years. Apparently, he had narrated the storyline to many actors. When I listened to it, I was excited to be part of the movie. But he cautioned me not to jump into conclusions. However, at that time I didn't understand why he said so, but when I began shooting for my portions in the forest, I realised the depth of his words. In one half of the movie, in which I am shown in the urban setting or as a civilised guy, shooting for such portions was a cakewalk for me. But the portions in which I have to portray the tribal character was quite challenging. I did the scenes without body doubles. Most part of the body was shown bare and after each shot I used to be bleeding from one or the other part of my body , due to bruises and cuts.
 
 
 While I am happy to receive positive feedback and constructive criticism, I feel hurt when it crosses the limits. At that time, I make it a point to stay away from the   and my wife pitches in. She is adept in handling the social media and in fact better than me at it. A major plus point with social media is that now you get to know people who like you and their reactions instantly. Before the advent of online platforms, they existed, but you never knew who they were. Social media has made it possible to recognise them and now the conversation has become two-way . You're able to engage with your fans or people who like you, in an effective way .
 
 
