Rajkot: The city of Rajkot is abuzz with the return of the IPL. Hotel rooms are unavailable, air-tickets to and from the city have skyrocketed, glitzy signposts adorn the streets and the stadium is gearing up for its own opening ceremony - third among the eight that   is hosting this season. 

 Shah Rukh   is coming to town. It's not just cricket that's catering to the frenzy here in the capital of Saurashtra.
 
 The Kolkata Knight Riders will pad up for their first match of the season on Friday evening for which their team owner, Khan, is flying down early afternoon.
 
 It is the ultimate cocktail that IPL has to offer for which Rajkot is being decked up. Fan, fandom, cricket and couture and the superstar - all the razzmatazz that makes for a heady affair is coming together.
 
 In the middle of all this, there's  , the seasoned cricketer from Delhi, who clearly looks like he talks faster than he thinks but actually doesn't, who's putting his experience to work here.
 
 Having won two IPL titles for KKR, Gambhir knows what's at stake here. He's been there and done that. It's not Khan's arrival that has him charmed. It's the quality of cricket that Gujarat Lions can come up with that Gambhir is focusing on.
 
 "They're a good team," says Gambhir and he'd know a thing or two, having lost both the league matches to the Lions last season.
 
 If the Knights have to begin this tournament on a winning note - a kick more than a necessity knowing how teams have made exceptional comebacks in IPL after poor starts - they'll have to get their bowling attack in order from the word go.
 
 Umesh Yadav, the Vidarbha pacer who bowled impressively in the fourth Test against Australia, will not be around for KKR's opening game because of an injury to his lower back that's healing well and fast.
 
 Andre Russell, KKR's West Indian all-rounder, isn't around either, facing a one-year ban because of a doping violation. These are factors playing on Gambhir's mind. Seven years with the Knights and he knows it's not Shah Rukh's presence that the IPL is all about.
 
