COIMBATORE: A week after   announced the launching of the much-awaited   train, the train will finally get on track on Saturday. It will depart from   at 1.35pm and reach Pollachi at 2.45 pm. The train will return from Pollachi at 3.05pm and reach Coimbatore at 4.15pm. On the return journey, the train will stop at Podanur and Kinathukidavu. 

 The train which was initially scheduled to depart from Podanur, will depart from Coimbatore because it is the Coimbatore-Shoranur passenger train which is being used for the Coimbatore-Pollachi train in between its journeys.
 
  The train will consist of eight unreserved coaches, being able to accommodate around 100 to 120 passengers each. “The afternoon trip schedule is a temporary arrangement till we get a permanent train and coaches for the route,” said the Salem division spokesperson. “A permanent train for the route which can run on different timings all seven days of the week is likely to take a minimum of six months to come through,” said a senior official in the division. 
 
 The divisional railway manager has ordered track inspectors and engineers to inspect the track on Friday night. “We will also run a diesel loco on Saturday morning on the track to ensure that everything on the track is alright, because it was closely inspected more than three months back,” said divisional railway manager,  . 
 
 The train timings, which were announced almost four months after the newly converted broad guage track was given the safety green signal, has come under severe criticism because it does not serve peak hour traffic. 
 
 “We daily work commuters require a train during office timings like 8.30 am or 9.30 am. Students would require the train at 6.45 am or 7 am from either direction.
 
  People returning home would require a train at 6 pm or 6.30 pm. This timing would not even help people travelling to the other town even for lunch,” said  , an accountant from Pollachi who travels to Coimbatore every day for work. “Hope the actual train is introduced faster with better timings,” commented another business from Coimbatore who travels to Pollachi every day to manage his mills, R Santhosh. 
 
