MUMBAI: Posing as a trustee of   in Juhu, a 33-year-old man knocked out around Rs 2 crore from nearly 30 students who sought admission to management programmes. Mehfuz Shaikh was arrested on Wednesday and Juhu police are probing how he got hold of phone numbers of aspirants or their parents. Insider involvement has not been ruled out. 

 Shaikh had been calling aspirants for three-five months. “He posed as a trustee or panelist with the management who could secure admission to any management programme. Those who wanted a transfer from one college to another were also assured that he could arrange it. He would drop names of trustees and claim he got the aspirant’s name into the list of students to be admitted. Each aspirant was told to deposit Rs 7-8 lakh as a ‘donation’ into a savings bank account,” said senior inspector Sunil Ghoshalkar, Juhu police. 
 
 No document was offered to aspirants. After the ‘donation’ was paid, aspirants were told to head to the college on the day of admission and pay fees. It was then that aspirants would realise they had been conned. 
 
 Soon, aspirants started approaching the college management with complaints. “We directed them to Juhu police and our registrar is coordinating with the cops,” an   spokesperson said. So far, 10 aspirants have lodged complaints but police said at least 20 others have been conned too. Police got hold of the phone number, from which calls were being made to aspirants, and tracked down the man in whose name it was registered. But he said he had lost his handset long time back. Police then questioned the individual who operated the bank account where aspirants were directed to deposit money. Shaikh told that man that the money belonged to a relative and offered him Rs 10,000 as commission. Police arrested him, and based on information he provided, Shaikh was nabbed from the western suburbs on September 13. He was remanded in police custody till Monday.
 
 “No all aspirants Shaikh called were gullible. Some cross-checked with the management before paying him. They were told he was a fraud,” said assistant inspector Rahul Deshmukh. Shaikh had been earlier booked in cases of cheating and attempt to commit murder in Juhu.
 
 “On our website, we mention precautions aspirants need to take at the time of admission. Students are cautioned against paying money to anyone who approaches them with an offer to secure admissions. They are told to report such people to police. We do not have any management quota,” the NMIMS spokesperson said.
 
