Hyderabad’s fruit markets have been drenched in yellow even before   arrived this summer, thanks to pushcarts filled with ripe, juicy mangoes. Even as fruitarians get spoiled for choice, there are a few queries that are bound to cross every discerning mango-lover’s mind. Isn’t April a little too early for ripe   to hit the market? And, why are they so uniformly yellow? Are they being artificially ripened? Hyderabad Times took a walk around the markets to scout for answers to these very pertinent questions. Here’s a lowdown on everything you need to know about the ‘king of fruits’ this season.

 
 
 “We had stocks come in as early as February this year. They hit the market early as the areas where we procure the fruits from — such as Chittoor and other parts of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — had early flowering and harvests owing to the drought last year,” said Narsing, a fruit retailer in  . 
 Organic farmers too confirm they have registered an early harvest.  , who has been busy dispatching mangoes from his farm near Maheshwaram for the past couple of weeks, says, “I have been harvesting Banganapalle mangoes for a while now. But surprisingly, even Himayat mangoes (Imam Pasand), that usually comes around mid-May, too have been harvested and dispatched already.”
 
 
 
 naturally ripened mangoes can never look like the picture-perfect, uniformly yellow ones that have flooded the markets right now. So, is something amiss? We decided to find out. ‘Yeh aam itne peele kaise hain...? natural hain kya’ — we asked, as we picked out the most perfect ones, posing as customers. We got the same carefully-worded answer from vendors everywhere from   to Kothapet. “abhi Telangana government ne carbide ko ban kiya hai... Ye sab natural hi hai.” However, a few confessed, “Yeh carbide ban ne toh humara business kharab kar diya....” and admitted that carbide ripening does happen; albeit on the sly. 
 if mangoes look too yellow to be true, then you should probably be worried, say organic farmers in the city. “when you ripen the mangoes naturally, you don’t get a uniformly yellow fruit. Despite the ban, not just mangoes, but even other fruits like bananas, are ripened using calcium carbide. This chemical is placed between the fruit trees / raw fruits at 2-3 feet gaps. Ethylene gas too is used to ripen them in go-downs. these chemicals produce a lot of heat and thus, expedite the process of ripening. But, fruits thus ripened are hazardous for health.”
 
 
 
 Throwing light on why unnaturally ripened fruits, and vegetables aren’t good for you, nutritionist Dr   food says, “As much as marketing and advertisements have brainwashed us into believing that perfection is possible, in nature, there is beauty in imperfection; or rather authenticity in imperfection. There is nothing nutritional about artificially ripened fruits because you are forcefully harvesting them before they even mature, and then artificially ripen them before they are ready to be eaten. The nutritional value in such fruits is just not the same.” This is the main cause for a rise in lifestyle diseases, says Dr Chabria. “one can attribute the rise in cases of diabetes, male infertility, polycystic ovaries and Vitamin D3 and B12 deficiencies to this. There are also a lot of cases of fluorosis and calcium deficiency. Our health is deteriorating at an abysmal pace and the first step towards fixing it is our food,” she adds.
 
 
 
 So what’s the solution, you ask? Procure fruits straight from the source, say docs.   farms on the outskirts of the city charge around Rs120 per kg, the same as your neighbourhood vendor.
 
