HYDERABAD: Her greatest fear realized on February 22. Her husband Srinivas Kuchibhotla was 
  in Olathe, Kansas, USA. Exactly a week later,  , Kuchibhotla's widow said she will return to Olathe. She said this in a late Tuesday night  . Kuchibhotla's 
  were performed at Jubilee Hills Mahaprasthanam in Hyderabad on Tuesday afternoon.

 While Kuchibhotla worked for Gramin, Sunayana had taken up a job with another company. After his death, company officials of   called on her in Olathe and told her that she could take as much time as she wanted and return to work.
 
 First on her to-do list in Olathe, is thanking Ian Grillot. “Thanks for having the courage and trying in whatever way possible to save my husband. When I am back in Olathe, I would like to meet you personally. I hope you get well soon,“ she said in her post.
 
 
 
 Recalling what happened on that fateful day, Sunayana wrote: “When police came to our house that night and gave me the news of my husband's life being taken away by a random shooter, I could not believe their words, it was so surreal. I asked them repeatedly, “Are you sure?", “Are you telling the truth?“, “Did you see the man you are talking about?“, “Can you show me a picture to identify?“, “Is the man that you are talking about 6' 2''?" They were just nodding their heads saying yes.
 
 Sunayana called up Kuchibhotla's brother in Dallas immediately but he thought she was joking.
 
 “I'm still trying to digest the fact that in one evening I became a widow from a wife,“ Sunayana wrote.
 
 Before the incident, Kuchibhotla and his wife went to see a doctor as they were planning a child. He told her they need to save money for in-vitro for her to conceive. “I am writing this as it sinks in to me that this dream of ours is now shattered. I really wish we had a child of our own in whom I could at least see Srinivas and make him like Srinu," she said.
 
 Sunayana said Kuchibhotla always 
  . “He followed them very closely over the internet. There were days when he used to talk about how it's been quite a few years since we applied for our permanent residency card, and he didn't know how much longer we have to wait for it,“ she said. Kuchibhotla was happy when the 
  . “Nani, now you can work. It is not that we need the money, but it's so that you can follow your own dreams and make your parents proud," he told her.
 
 Her post has 16.4k reactions, 3k comments and 7.7k shares so far.
 
 
 
 
