Continuing their   ,   targeted another family on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday in Vivek Khand, Gomtinagar,   worth lakhs of rupees. On Monday night, armed assailants had attacked and robbed   Devendra Negi in South City colony leaving him and his wife injured.

 The fresh incident took place at the house of retired power corporation department engineer Girish Chandra Pandey's house number 128 in Vivek Khand 1, 100 metres away from railway tracks and at a close distance from Gomtinagar railway station. As many as 11 persons, including six family members, tenants and domestic servants were present in the house.   resides opposite the Pandey house.
 
 The group of masked assailants ran riot for an hour before decamping with cash, jewellery and valuables from the multi-storey house.
 
 They attacked Pandey and his wife Manju, both in their 70s, with a knife and thumped the couple's son Prashant in the head with butts of firearms. Pandey suffered severe cuts in both palms while trying to resist the robbers wielding knives. Police were yet to gather clues about the seven to eight masked assailants who were behind the attack and communicated with each other in a dialect that smacked of Bhojpuri spoken in Varanasi and neighbouring districts.“The assailants turned violent as soon as they entered the house,“ said Pandey . At 2.45am, one of the assailants entered Pandey's bedroom through the window by cutting the grill. He opened the door for others and soon held Pandey and his wife hostage at gunpoint.
 
 The robbers had either done homework or had insider support as they were aware about the number of family members present in the house.They tied up the couple with bedsheets. While two of them guarded the couple, others overpowered their son Prashant, his wife Ananya and another son Sushant who resides in rooms on the first floor.The gang took away jewellery the women were wearing and robbed about Rs 2 lakh cash and jewellery worth over Rs 5 lakh. Before escaping, they bolted all doors from outside and took away four cellphones and keys of the main door.
 
 When he managed to free himself and others, Sushant informed the tenant Chandrakant Mishra. Police response van arrived at 4.20am and senior officers, including ADG, IG and SSP rushed to the spot to meet the family . As newly appointed station officer of Gomtinagar police station Vishwajeet Singh had taken charge on Wednesday , a team of STF was also put on the job to assist him. The phones taken away by the robbers were found switched off.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said the gang seemed to have escaped through railway tracks.“CCTV footage from houses and establishments in the same block have failed to capture them. A vacant plot is right next to the house and they may have escaped from there towards the railway tracks,“ said Kumar, who examined the house early morning. Police have found that Gorakhpur native Pandey had sold a piece of land in his native village recently. “We are trying to find if he had kept more cash in the house,“ said an officer.
 
 
 
