President  , who will leave office on January 20 after eight years in the Oval Office came into the limelight as a rookie Senator way back in 2002 when he announced he was “opposed to dumb wars,“ referring to the planned invasion of Iraq by then President George W Bush.Six years later, with the US neck deep in the quagmire of war, Obama was voted into office by a hopeful US electorate that the steady stream of body bags coming in from different war zones would end. He even got the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009, mainly on the basis of his peaceful intentions.

 A look at Obama's eight years shows that American troop casualties have indeed gone down but the US is currently involved in more wars than in those frantic   years under  . The difference is that these are wars in which very low numbers of soldiers are on the ground. Deadly drone strikes and, if push comes to shove, air strikes are doing the job.So -no body bags coming back. The casualties are all on the other side.
 
 An analysis of the “ Airpower Summary“, released by   in December 2016 shows that US-led western forces dropped over 32,000 bombs in 2016 alone. That's three bombs every hour all of 2016.
 
 These bombs were released from drones as well as bomber aircraft functioning from military bases and several carrier vessels located in seas nearby.US air operations are currently ongoing in seven countries: Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria,  , Somalia, Yemen and Pakistan. In Bush's time the US was not involved in bombing Yemen and Libya.
 
 Has Obama spent less on defence? No. As per the US defence department's budget estimates for fiscal 2017, Oba ma spent $4.75 trillion on defence while his predecessor Bush spent $4.43 trillion in constant 2009 dollars. For both, the count is from their respective second years to the year of their quitting because US presidents take oath in January but the fiscal begins in October. Also, in Obama's term, US Special Forces have been deployed in some 138 countries around the world at some point or other -a re cord of sorts and much more than Bush's era.
 
 Apart from the usual war arenas of Afghanistan and IraqWest Asia, it was under Obama's watch that the much publicised “Pacific pivot“ was started in 2011. It meant a withdrawal of resources from West Asia, and channeling some of these to the SouthEast Asian region coupled with trade treaties and diplomatic initiatives to counter the perceived Chinese menace. As a result, an all-round arms race has broken out in the region with one estimate putting the cost at $166 billion.
 
 Another front opened by Obama is with Russia. Over $3 billion has already been spent in operation Reassure Europe by sending more troops, arms and conducting exercises with NATO allies.
 
 How will incoming president Donald Trump fare? His declared intent again is to disentangle from all “useless“ wars. But given his deep ties with ultra-rightwing lobbies and big business, he too can very rapidly go the other way .
 
 
