MUMBAI: The nine   that had not participated in the first round of   have submitted the details of the 300 seats and the   (DMER) will now proceed with the admissions that had been stalled.

 From an annual tuition of Rs 4.8 lakh to Rs 15.3 lakh at NKP Salve Medical College, Nagpur, under the state quota, the fees for NRI seats is five times higher—in the range of Rs 8.3 lakh to Rs 71 lakh.
 
 Pune’s   is all set to give a discount to medical aspirants seeking admission in pre- and para-clinical courses at the post-graduate level. The tepid response from doctors wanting to pursue their master’s at this institute led to the decision.Currently, with their appeal pending before the Fee Regulatory Authority, this Pune college will charge Rs 9 lakh from students under the state quota and the fee under the management quota will range from Rs 9 lakh to Rs 45 lakh.
 
 Maharashtra Institute of Medical Science & Research (MIMSR) in Latur has decided to charge candidates between Rs 27 lakh and Rs 71 lakh under the institution quota. Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research (MIMER) in   comes next; its tuition is between Rs 6.5 lakh and Rs 61 lakh a year.
 
 The DMER will now start personal counselling for admission to the remaining seats. The health ministry on Friday issued a circular that the second all-India combined counselling round for admission to post-graduate courses must be conducted between May 11 and 20, the last date of joining colleges must be May 27 and the last admission date is May 31.
 
 For seats vacant after the second round, a mop-up round of combined counselling must be held to ensure that all seats are filled by May 31, said the health ministry circular.
 
 In Maharashtra, the first round of post-graduate medical admission saw 2,400 of the 2,800 seats fill up. The lion’s share of 1,400 seats under the government and corporation institutes were snapped up first followed by 800 slots in deemed universities and 100 other seats in private colleges that were with the state government in the first round.
 
 Meanwhile, the confusion over fees in professional colleges continues with the Fee Regulatory Authority stating that there is merely one fee fixed by it for all students. At the same time, institutes have declared three categories of tuition.
 
