GURUGRAM: It's still six hours before   in  's   gets its first set of regular tipplers. But there are already people seated inside -all of them working on their laptops. Strange? Well, that's because the pub turns into a shared workspace during the day.

 It's not the only one. There are at least five pubs in Gurgaon, and one five-star hotel, that have started renting out space -in this case, tables -to those looking for a place to work out of. You can take it for a day or get a deal for a month. Facilities like Wi-Fi and, so metimes, snacks and coffee, are part of the package. This also helps the pubs make some money in off-peak hours when they get few customers.
 
 Sameer Dhar, the owner of Nowhere Terrace Pub, came to the city almost two decades ago. “I started out as an entrepreneur myself 18 years ago and I understand that while starting up, every penny matters and an office is a big expenditure. Hence the idea of co-working space,“ he says.
 
 The pub has a dedicated area where people can work for just Rs 99 per day. The tariff includes free Wi-Fi, unlimited tea, coffee and munchies. “It helps us cover cost because we are anyway spending on the space and air-conditioning.Also, when there are people inside, customers feel more comfortable walking in for brunch,“ says Dhar. Café Di Ghent happens to be another such place.
 
 “I love it here,“ says Harsh, who runs a startup named Hey Pulp. Factory by Sutra, another pub, located in Sector 29, also offers co-working spaces to start-ups and businesses. Their package starts at Rs 5,000 per person a month, which covers WiFi, unlimited coffee, tea and stationery .
 
 The idea of working out of a pub or bar isn't restricted to small entrepreneurs starting up. Many of the big names from the industry are also warming up to the idea, only their address is comparatively fancier.
 
 One such address in Gurgaon happens to be The Trident, Gurgaon, which started a similar service six months back. The Trident offers free WiFi, munchies, tea, coffee, stationery box and business concierge services at Rs 575 per day.
 
 “A lot of business leaders have their meetings at Trident and we realised they hated wasting time commuting, especially in rush hours. So, we came up with a service that lets them work out of our bar where they can work and network,“ says Ramandeep Singh Kaur, assistant food and beverage service manager, NCR, Trident Hotels.
 
 The practice of changing pubs into workspace and bringing the two together was pioneered by Social in Delhi's Hauz Khas village some years back. However, as the definition of workspace evolved, people started looking for funkier and offbeat places to work out of and a lot of pubs and cafes cashed in on the opportunity .
 
 “I work with a south Indian logistics firm, and even though we have an office on Golf Course Road, I prefer to work out of Nowhere Terrace Pub. It makes my meetings more fun. Plus one has the opportunity to network and meet like-minded people,“ says Shiv, who works with Inlogsys.
 
 Many young entrepreneurs even hop from one café to another on a daily basis to keep the monotony at bay .The arrangement also saves them from investing in office space. “We are a small team, hence it made more sense to work out of a café. It saves the cost plus the atmosphere is much more vibrant,“ says Risheek Puri, who runs a marketing solutions company.
 
