VARANASI: Amid rising  , a rural Muslim family in   has set a new precedent by   to its relatives and friends that carry  . 

 Containing typical Hindu religious wordings like 'Shri Ganeshaya Namaha' and some religious verses, the invitation has been sent out by one Nasrullah of Pindari village in Ballia to his relatives and friends for the reception feast of his younger brother Serazuddin's wedding with Rizwana. The reception was held on Thursday, a day before the wedding ceremony. 
 
 The card also has Hindu religious scriptures like 'Mangalam Bhagwan Vishnu Mangalam Garuda Dhwaja, Managalam Pundarikaksha Mangalaye Tano Hari' and symbols like 'kalash' and 'Swastika'.
 
 "Is mein galat kya hai? Hum apne Hindu mitron ki suvidha ke liye hi is terah ka card diye hain. Ismein kuchh naya nahi hai. Humlog sub mil-jul kar shaadi ya tyohar manate hain (What is wrong in it? For the convenience of our Hindu friends, we give such cards to them)," Nasrullah told TOI over phone from Ballia.
 
 "We all (Hindus and Muslims) collectively celebrate wedding ceremonies and festivals," Nasrullah said.
 
 Prodded further about Hindu religious symbols and texts on the invitation card, Nasrullah said, "We are simple rural people and know the language of love and 'bhai-chara' (brotherhood) only. When printed cards were not in fashion in our village, we used to invite people by sending handwritten letters carrying 'haldi' (considered auspicious by Hindus) mark."
 
 "We had arranged for cards with Islamic tradition for our relatives. But invites carrying Hindu markings were also sent to many of them. Almost all know Hindi and they are comfortable with such cards. My other family members like Qayamuddin and Kalimullah too had sent similar cards for various events in their families," he added.
 
 Pindari village is numerically dominated by Hindus and has only seven Muslim families. Nasrullah belongs to a law income group family. He and his two other brothers work is rolling mills in Gujarat, while the youngest Serazuddin lives in the village. A matriculate, Serazuddin is learning AC repair work. 
 
 "It can be seen as a fine example of the cultural amalgamation the two communities. Every religion has its own style of wedding invitations. In an Islamic wedding card, religious symbols and prayers are crucial, while the Hindu wedding cards too carry religious texts and symbols. The wording of this particular card begins in praise of the first worshipped Hindu deity, Shri Ganesha, though normally such invitation card of Muslim families begins with text like "In the name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the most Merciful," said Mohsin Raza, a marketing professional.
 
 
