MUMBAI: Governor C Vidyasagar Rao is likely to swear in AIADMK legislature party leader Edappadi K   as chief minister on Thursday, a Raj Bhavan insider told TOI. 

 He may be asked to prove majority on the floor of the house in a week, thereby ruling out the possibility of a composite floor test. A Raj Bhavan source said that after 
  on Wednesday evening, the governor accepted the claim of Palaniswami on the basis of number. 
 
 “Palaniswami submitted a list of 124 legislators, while Paneerselvam claimed that he has the support of eight legislators. The governor now has no option but to invite Palaniswami to form the government,” the source said. 
 
 He said the governor examined all aspects, including reports that a 
  and lodged in a resort, before concluding that Palaniswami has the support of the requisite number of legislators.
 
 Around 7.30pm on Wednesday,   met TN governor C Vidyasagar Rao along with nine others and urged him for an invitation to form the government. “We are hoping that the governor will call us to form the government at the earliest,” former minister D Jayakumar told reporters outside Raj Bhavan. 
 
 Soon after the AIADMK team left, OPS reached there with his nine men and sought his intervention to “set free” MLAs from the Koovathur resort, before taking a final call on the present crisis. 
 
 “We explained the situation to the governor that most of the MLAs are unlawfully confined to the resort for nearly a week, against their wishes,” a leader said. 
 
 He added that OPS enjoyed support from a majority of MLAs in the resort. A party leader said Mettur MLA S Semmalai, who joined OPS camp on Monday, detailed to the governor how he escaped from the resort and how many others are held captive there.
 
  
  
 
 AIADMK spokesman Nanjil Sampath, who is with the Palaniswami camp, said his group which has a majority was given only five minutes audience with the governor, while   was allotted half an hour.
 
 Meanwhile Sasikala’s and her fellow two convicts’ plea seeking more time to surrender was 
  . Sasikala said she had to “make some personal arrangements before surrendering”, while Sudhakaran said he had to make arrangement to run his business as well as studies of his minor children apart from citing his spondylitis and severe back pain. 
 
 A bench of Justices Ghose and Amitava Roy said, “We had directed the convicts to surrender immediately. We will pass no more orders. You understand the meaning of immediate, don’t you Mr Tulsi?”
 
