NAGPUR: The villages in   district acquiring community forest rights (CFRs) under Forest Rights Act 2006 for tendu leaves are up in arms against state government’s decision to stay auction by group of gram sabhas and directing them to complete entire process again.

 The government on March 9, directed 38 gram sabhas in Sadak Arjuni and Deori in Gondia district to recomplete the auction under the supervision of the district collector.
 
 The decision was taken following a report by Gondia district collector, who conducted an inquiry based on a complaint by   alleging there is no transparency in sale of tendu patta by group of gram sabhas.
 
 “As per the government GR, auctioning beyond Rs 3 lakh has to be done via e-tenders only. The sale of tendu leaves should be done through e-tendering,” says Jayeshkumar Patel, president of the association.
 
 Of these 38 villages, 33 are being guided by  . The villages sold 5,750 standard bags of tendu for over Rs 5.16 crore to a Gondia-based trader in January.
 
 “The complaint is a fallout of vested interest. It is the prerogative of gram sabhas as to whom they wish to sell their produce. For the past three years when the villages resorted to e-tendering process, they suffered losses of over Rs 24 lakh,” says Tularam Uike, Gangadhar Meshram and other   gram sabha representatives.“We will not accept the orders,” he added.
 
 Last year a lower rate between Rs 3,700 and Rs 5,500 per standard bag was offered. However, this year it fetched a rate of Rs 9,500 per bag.
 
 “The government cannot deprive tribals of their CFR right. It will unnecessarily cause conflict,” said Dilip Gode, VNCS secretary.
 
    secretary Manisha Verma and the representatives of 19 gram sabhas from Sadak Arjuni and 18 from Deori met at Mumbai on March 22. All gram sabha representatives demanded withdrawal of the stay. Verma was unavailable for comments.
 
 Gondia district collector Abhimanyu Kale said, “Gram sabhas have right to sell forest produce under CFR. But, it was expected the villages to do competitive bidding by inviting sealed bids or e-tendering, which was not done. Had forest department sold the material it could have fetched more money, I’m told.” The Forest department washed their hands of the issue and said it had no role in the process.
 
 “We absolutely have no role to play as CFR issues are controlled by district collector. We have just intimated about the government stand about Gondia to all the territorial circles,” said A Ashraf, APCCF for non-timber forest produce (NTFP).
 
 
