GURGAON: A few days after the state government issued an order with regard to the   takeover of   —   phases 1-3,   1 and Palam Vihar — the   of DLF phase 2 wrote to the chief minister that the   should be preceded by fresh RWA elections in the presence of corporation officials and registrar of societies. 

 In a letter dated April 26, the residents welfare associations (RWAs) of DLF 2 urged the chief minister to ensure fresh RWA elections in the areas before the actual takeover. 
 
 “Most of the residential areas have multiple RWAs causing differences and discord among the residents. Hence it is important to have clarity as to which associations will be dealing with the municipal corporation after the MCG takeover,” said Umesh Gupta, member of progressive residents’ association, DLF phase 2. 
 
 The letter states that after MCG takeover, the additional services will have to be managed through RWAs. These organisations have their own dynamics, which is complex in plotted areas, and it is bound to become a bone of contention. Residents also alleged that the presence of builder-sponsored RWAs will also give rise to confusions in the future. 
 
 “Some important services such as security are left under the responsibility of the resident associations and hence the role of these associations becomes even more important. It is therefore important that the fresh elections are conducted, under the government scanner, so that the intentions of the associations is clear in the future,” said Vinod Tayal , a resident of the area.
 
 The issue of multiple RWAs in developer areas has been a bone of contention in many societies in Gurgaon. In some cases a few associations are also accused of being hand-in-glove with the builder and working for the developers’ interests. 
 
 A few residents from Sushant Lok 1 also seem to agree and say that despite an RWA in place, the condition of their society went from bad to worse and hence it is important to have a freshly elected association. “With the takeover coming into picture, it is imperative to conduct the elections so that a new association is elected by the residents and not just the collegium members,” said Neelu Sharma, a resident of Sushant Lok 1.
 
