GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday inaugurated the three-day   Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC ) workshop and training programme on ‘Application of Space Technology in Monitoring and Managing Risks’.

  He also inaugurated the SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC) developed by the Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM). The meeting was attended by nearly 20 representatives — from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. The Pakistani delegation was conspicuous by its absence. Maldives too skipped the meeting. 
 
 Union minister of state for power and new and renewable energy   said Pakistan’s absence was “unfortunate”. He said: “Since all other SAARC countries were present, it means that all the nations want peace and prosperity in their countries as well as in other countries of the region.” He went on to say: “We want each country to develop; development should be the priority. If one wants to fight, it should be against poverty and backwardness.”
 
 Goyal said: “Modiji has always promoted the idea of harmony and brotherhood. It is unfortunate that one country has not participated.” SDMC director Anju Sharma (a Gujarat IAS officer) said: “According to my information, they (Pakistani delegates) registered late with the SAARC secretariat and are likely to arrive tonight and join the seminar from tomorrow.”
 
 Rupani said that the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA) was developed after the 2001 earthquake. He said the authority later became the model for the rest of India and developing countries. “Lakhs of buildings in Kutch and other districts crumbled on January 26, 2001,” he said. “The state government headed by  , the CM at the time, rose to the occasion for what eventually turned out to be Asia’s biggest rescue, rehabilitation, and reconstruction operation.” 
 
 Gujarat’s chief secretary   said that geographical conditions vary vastly in SAARC countries, requiring different models to tackle disasters brought by tsunamis, earthquakes, and cyclones. “It is a matter of pride that SAARC reposed confidence in the Gujarat government for setting up the Disaster Management Centre,” he said. 
 
 External affairs joint secretary Prashant Agarwal said that Modi wanted disaster management centres in India and neighbouring countries equipped with the latest technology. Agarwal did not comment on Pakistan’s absence. 
 
