Nagpur: In the by lanes of busy Itwari area, Mohammad Imran and his uncle Ayub Khan are busy stirring a sugar mixture in huge vessels. Adding milk to the boiling syrup, they deftly remove the rising scum to keep the liquid clean. Once the desired consistency is attained the hot mixture is poured into moulds and a cotton thread is placed over it, with portions of the thread dipped in syrup. The mixture cools down within minutes and sugar strings are removed and moulds are readied for another lot. The duo hails from Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh and make this trip to the city every year a fortnight before Shivratri.

 In the local lingo these strings are called gathi and they make an appearance in the market around Holi. “We make one and a half quintals of these strings every day for which four quintals of sugar is used,” says Mohd Imran. These strings sell for Rs65 per kg. “We don’t get local workers to prepare them though gathis are used in Shivratri puja, then again they are offered in the Holi fire lit on the eve of the festival and is in demand on Gudi Padwa day also,” says Pintu Sahu, a wholesaler who calls Imran and his uncle every year to prepare gathi.
 
 Shops in the Rewadi Bazaar area of Itwari are loaded with these sugar strings as they are bought in bulk for sales across the city and even in the neighbouring areas up to Madhya Pradesh. “The sales in the city have been dipping every year but we get buyers from rural areas like Pandurna and other small villages,” Sahu informs.
 
 The gathi strings are presented to elders, newly-weds and young children on Holi to make them feel special. It is more of a social gesture than religious. With a political culture gradually evolving in the region now gathis are painted with edible colours and also decorated with plastic flowers and even mirrors. “This is a part of the social milieu of this region,” says Sanjay Gupta the owner of Jaganath stores in Itwari. “But this has a certain medicinal value too as it prevents heat strokes,” Gupta says and adds that though the strings can be used for consumption but they cannot be a substitute for sugar as they taste different. 
 
 
