PUNE: This Mother’s Day, many youngsters in the city have decided to pamper the ladies of the month with vacations and opportunities to cross items off their bucket list.

 Komal Bhatia and her mother   are setting off on a seven-day vacation to Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia soon. They plan to explore the sights and sounds of Kuala Lumpur, Genting Highlands and  , besides enjoying amusement parks and other fun activities.
 
 Komal, who planned this holiday about two weeks ago, is among a growing number of children, who are thinking beyond conventional gifting ideas. 
 
 Children sponsoring holidays for their mothers, or even accompanying them for the vacation, has been a welcome trend this year, say many travel companies and online booking platforms. While some of them have lined up customized packages for women-only travellers, others are offering discounts on mother’s day vouchers. 
 
 Children travelling with mothers is a new trend, said Manmeet Ahluwalia, marketing head of   in India. 
 
 “This vacation has a notable impact on the ‘alone time’ children spend with their mothers, which is considered a therapy in itself and a respite from routine. We have observed a rise in the number of mother-child/children vacations in the last couple of years, and a surge of 24% in the number of holidays with mothers in the first two weeks of May. For many mothers, planning holidays with children has become a yearly/monthly affair and gives them quality time,” he said.
 
 It’s a niche idea which is seeing a lot of growth, added Karan Anand, head of relationships at Cox and Kings. “Indian has always been a family-holiday market. Mothers travelling with their daughters, or daughters sponsoring a trip for their mothers, and even just a group of women setting off on their own is a recent phenomenon. We are seeing a good response to this under our ‘Getaway Goddess’ brand. Mothers toil all their lives for their children, so the kids love to pamper their mothers this way,” he said.
 
 The spokesperson of MakeMyTrip, which is offering a 20% discount on Mother’s Day gift cards, said, “A perfect gift for your mother would be to give her a break from the heat and a soothing holiday to her favourite destination.”
 
