Lucknow: Planning to build a   in UP? Make sure rain-water harvesting is part of the   plan. Without it, you house map will not be passed by development authorities. Chief minister Aditya Nath   has directed the officials of housing department to ensure that house maps are cleared by authorities only after rain harvesting arrangements have been made.

 During a presentation by urban development department late on Saturday night, the chief minister said that since there was scarcity of water these days, rain water harvesting in each house was a must. With summers around, UP is staring at a severe water-crisis. The severity of the situation could be assessed from the fact that over 650 out of 820 blocks of the state are witnessing decline in ground water level. Situation in urban areas is still more grim, where water level is declining at much faster rate. 
 
 The CM, while issuing the order, stated that his government intended to ensure that people of the state did not face shortage of drinking water. He also directed the UP Jal Nigam officials to ensure that the benefits of various government schemes reached to the doorsteps of the needy. Adityanath asked officials to ensure drinking water availability at all places. The CM said that if needed, the hand-pumps should be reinstalled wherever required. 
 
 Aditya Nath also directed the officials to link Mathura and Vrindavan under the Agra Water Supply Scheme (Agra Jal Sampurti Yojana), and said that the scheme must be completed by March 2018. He also directed for constitution of a committee under the urban development minister to probe into the work done by Jal Nigam under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme.
 
 In another significant directive, the Yogi ordered the officials to look for the viability of upgrading Ayodhya-Faizabad and Mathura-Vrindavan as municipal corporations. The CM also directed the officials to come up with cowsheds on the lines of Kanha Upvan in Lucknow in a bid to provide shelter to wandering animals on roads.
 
 He also directed the officials to begin shifting electricity poles from the roads so that roads could be widened for smooth flow of traffic. 
 
 During the presentation by transport department, the CM directed the officials to complete automatic driving testing tracks at Kanpur and Bareilly in the coming 100 days. He also directed the officials to implement e-challan facility across the state.
 
 In another directive, the CM ordered for upgrading of bus stations at cities like Varanasi, Faizabad, Ayodhya, Naimisharanya, Chitrakoot, Vindhyachal, Kushinagar, Gola Gokarnnath, Mathura, Gorakhpur and Deva Sharif, which come under pilgrimage circuit.
 
 The CM also directed for construction of bus stations at Naimisharanya, Chitrakoot and Mathura and ordered ensuring mobile app 'Track my Bus' for the real time tracking of the buses.
 
 
