MUMBAI: The first day of the inaugural  , Indian Grand Prix of the Seas certainly belonged to the Baleno RS Booster Jets' brother-sister team of Sam and   who sealed pole position (2:25:73) for the first of two 15-lap races to come on Saturday. But considering this event has been promoted by organisers as the first of a new world series in powerboat racing, there couldn't have been a more fitting way to mark the occasion than to have at least one of the two Indians on the grid deliver a special performance. 

 It was   who rose to the occasion.
 
 Well known for his feats in cross country rallying but as good as an infant in the world of powerboat racing, Gill more than held his own among a field of the world's best P1 SuperStock pilots and navigators, as he pulled off a credible seventh place finish in Friday's qualifying session. With American George Ivey in the navigator's seat, Gill piloted boat B of the Ultra Sharks around the first-of-its-kind 5.2km course-on-water in 2:30:60. The other Indian pilot in the fray, CS Santosh, who is the only Indian man to have completed the Dakar Rally twice, but just as new to powerboat racing as his compatriot, also impressed with a time of 2:31:54 which fetched him ninth spot.
 
 Unfortunately for Gill and Santosh, rules stipulated by the Union Internationale Motonautique (UIM), the global governing body for all power boating activities, mean they must start Race One on Saturday in 11th and 12th spots - the last two positions on the grid, regardless of their fine competitive debuts on Indian waters on Friday. This is primarily because of their relative inexperience in the sport compared to their fellow competitors. Both Santosh and Gill went into this event with only one prior competitive powerboat race under their belts which took place in the United States late last year. 
 
 They were, in fact, introduced to the sport as recently as November.As Robert Wicks, Powerboat P1 Chief Operating Officer, explained to TOI, the only way their actual qualifying positions would have been considered was if they had competed in at least three official races as per the UIM rule. They are set to satisfy that criterion after Saturday's two races which would thus give them a chance to really get in the mix for Sunday's final race. "It's frustrating not to be able to put them in the mix straightaway but the reality of the situation is A, there is a regulation and B, for the safety not only of the other competitors but primarily for CS and Gaurav, it's better for them to build up that experience and start on the outside," said Wicks.
 
 
 In a chat with TOI later, Gill began by expressing his frustration over the rule but went on to say he respected it. "It's a little unfortunate that it's panned out this way , given the fact that I have won way bigger titles in rally driving on a global stage," said the 32-year-old, a two-time winner of the Asia Pacific Rally Championship. "We guys come from a different discipline but we carry a lot of international and global experience. This is something we could have been comfortable with but they think we are not ready for it yet. So I totally respect it."
 
 The fact that the top four boats were separated by just two seconds, further highlighted by a mere hundredth of a second splitting the Coleman siblings from the Money on Mobile Marlins team of James Norvill and Christian Parsons-Young who finished second, sets the tone for an exciting start to Saturday's action. "We had been studying our times all through our practice sessions and we knew we were doing better. We also spotted some places where we could be quicker and we put together the perfect lap," said Sam.
 
 
