BHOPAL: In an interesting chain of events the story of the 11-year-old boy from Hoshangabad, who allegedly got kidnapped and managed to rescue himself from the clutch of his abductors turned out to be a cooked up story.

 When the demand of the boy, who wanted to visit a mall, was not entertained by his parents, he fled from his home and came to Bhopal to visit a mall in MP Nagar.
 
 The boy, who actually fled from his home, told the police on Monday that he was kidnapped by two men as he was riding on his bicycle towards his school. The minor said that he was taken away by two men on the pretext that his father has met with an accident. He told the police that he was kidnapped in a white Indigo car and they drove him to MP Nagar. However, he managed to escape from there by befooling the kidnappers by saying that he wanted to go to the loo and fled away from there.
 
 However, a detailed investigation done by Hoshanagabad police revealed that the boy cooked up the story and ran away from home on his own.
 
 Nitu Pal, investigating officer and sub-inspector of   said, “On Tuesday morning, I went to the boy’s home to take his statement after which I took him to the kidnapping spot to verify with him the timing of the event and to check the CCTV footage of the area, but could not find the men and the car he mentioned to the cops. Later, when I went to his home again for a re-statement, he told me that he cooked up the story and fled on his own.”
 
 Pal informed that the boy revealed in his statement that he wanted to go to a mall but his request was not entertained by his father, so he decided to visit the mall on his own. The boy left his cycle at Hoshangabad railway station and boarded the Amarkantak Express. He got down at Habibganj and boarded a bus to MP Nagar. However, he was not able to find the mall. Confused, he started to search for the address of her cousin, who resides in   but in vain. The boy panicked and was helped by some stranger who informed the police.
 
 Hoshangabad police has requested the boy not to repeat the same mistake. On Wednesday, the boy will be produced in a court for registering his statement.
 
