IMPHAL: Amid growing controversy over citizenship, Congress's Nepali candidate for Kangpokpi, Khadga Bahadur Tamang, filed his nomination as an Independent candidate on Monday. He became the second Congress candidate, after veteran politician Phungzathang Tonsing, to refuse a party ticket. 

 "I filed my nomination papers today as an Independent candidate," Tamang told TOI. He attributed the change of track to the unwillingness of Naga voters to opt for a Congress candidate. "There may not be any Congress candidate contesting from Kangpokpi," he said. 
 
 The Kangpokpi constituency has a sizeable Naga voter base. And Tamang did not want to take any chance. After the creation of seven new districts by the Okram Ibobi Singh-led government, the Nagas are not too happy with the ruling party. The Kangpokpi district itself was created by carving out the Kuki-dominated areas of the Naga-majority Senapati district.
 
 Tamang's own political journey has been an eventful one, to say the least. The 45-year-old leader started his career at the student wing of Congress, the National Students' Union of India (NSUI). He had served as the president of the Gorkha Students' Union, Manipur. He then became an active worker of the Congress party in Kangpokpi. Later, he switched sides and joined  . This came after sitting MLA Nemcha Kipgen joined Congress in 2014.
 
 The saffron party was all set to field Tamang as its candidate. But when Nemcha returned to his cohorts, Tamang realized the chances of getting a BJP ticket were slim. And he returned to his old party, Congress.
 
 The road turned bumpy for Tamang when the   on the Inner Line Permit System (JCILPS) asked him to prove his family came to Manipur before 1951. The JCILPS said it will not allow any candidate whose family came to the state after 1951 to contest the assembly polls. Faced with a roadblock yet again, he met leaders of the JCILPS and furnished documents proving that his family arrived in Manipur in 1937. Sources say the meeting was not conclusive. 
 
 Tamang does not want to burden Congress any further, sources said, adding that if the JCILPS decided to oppose his candidature, it could have affected Congress in the valley.
 
 Manipur will go to the polls in two phases - March 4 for 38 seats and March 8 for 22 seats. Kangpokpi will vote in the first phase. The constituency has a similar electorate size of Kuki and Nepali voters. The minority Naga voters could very well tilt the balance. In the 2012 assembly polls, Tamang had lost to Nemcha Kipgen, the present BJP candidate, by a narrow margin of 247 votes.
 
