PUNE: Elected members of the   on Wednesday demanded that the board suspend senior health department officials after medicines bearing no expiry dates were administered to patients at the main PCB-run hospital.

 According to officials, 57 ampoules of diclofenac sodium -a common painkiller injection -were discovered in the labour ward of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital (SVP CGH) on Friday with no expiry date.These ampoules were manufactured by a Himachal Pradesh-based company .
 
 The expiry date -May 2017 -was printed on the carton that contained these ampoules as well as some other ampoules. Officials said that some of these ampoules, which did not have the expiry dates, were already administered to patients. No patient has reported any adverse medical reaction till now, hospital officials said.
 
 PCB officials, however, said their officials are not to bla me. “Our officials are not responsible for this. This is the fault of the state government, as the medicines were procured through them,“ DN Yadav, chief executive officer of PCB, told the general board on Wednesday. He added that he would ask for a further enquiry by military authorities in the matter.
 
 These ampoules were procured from the   (NUHM), where medicines and equipment are routed through respective state governments.Upon discovery , hospital aut horities immediately destroyed the stock and then informed top PCB and NUHM officials.
 
 NUHM officials later intimated the   (FDA), whose officials visited the hospital on Wednesday for an investigation.
 
 FDA inspectors found 900 other ampoules of the same batch, but the expiry dates were printed on the labels.
 
 “Hospital authorities should have informed FDA and other officials before destroying the ampoules that did not have expiry dates printed,“ an FDA official said. He added that it would have helped the FDA 's investigation into whether the injection may cause any adverse effects.
 
 When asked why the stock was destroyed without informing officials, S M Mahajan, the resident medical officer of the hospital, told reporters, “It was only about 50 or so ampoules of diclofenac sodium which were found to be without expiry dates printed, which is why we destroyed the stock before informing authorities.“
 
 FDA officials added that they were investigating furt her.“We have already sent some of the samples our officials lifted from the hospital stock for testing, and its report will come soon. We have also informed authorities in Himachal Pradesh, where the drug was manufactured. The NUHM supplied the drugs from its centre at the St George's Hospital in Mumbai. So, we have informed our Mumbai office to investigate as well,“ said  , joint commissioner (drugs), FDA.
 
 This is the second case of dubious drugs being administered at the Cantonment ho spital in less than six months.In August last year, a female patient was administered expired saline at the hospital, following which three nurses were suspended, pending departmental action.
 
 “Board officials are only going after nurses. Why are the medical stores keeper and the resident medical officer -who are responsible for ensuring such medicines do not find their way into the store -not being investigated? They must be suspended immediately,“ Atul Gaikwad, elected member of the PCB, said.
 
