PALAKKAD: The Agali police have registered a case of abetment of suicide after a day after a youth, harassed by the so-called moral police on a Kollam beach, ended his life on Thursday.

 The case was registered based on a suicide note found on   (22), who hanged himself from a tree near his house at Karara in Agali grama panchayat in Attapadi.
 
 The death note named a Kollam resident,  , who allegedly took to the social media to continue harassing the youth. 
 
 The accused was allegedly part of a gang that attacked Aneesh and his woman friend on   in Kollam on Valentine’s Day. The perpetrators had also filmed the entire episode. 
 
 Five persons were arrested in connection with the incident, which even forced chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to issue a stern warning against moral brigades. 
 
 The deceased also alleged in the suicide note that a police complaint he had made failed to stop Dhanesh and his friends from continuing the harassment. 
 
 They continued spreading canards and posted the pictures of Aneesh and the young woman on social media, the note said.
 
 Agali police said the social media posts were found withdrawn after his death was reported on Thursday evening.
 
 Aneesh’s mother Latha told media persons at Karara that “her son was depressed after the incident. After his return, he remained inside the house and refused to have food.” His body was handed over to his relatives after a post-mortem examination. Aneesh was a private firm employee in Kollam. 
 
 After the suicide, the State Human Rights Commission filed a case and sought reports from the superintendents of Kollam and Palakkad police, and also from the district medical officer in Palakkad.
 
 Commission member K Mohankumar also directed the state government to take adequate steps against the misuse of social media that often breached the privacy of individuals.
 
 Meanwhile, the Kollam city police launched a hunt for Dhaneesh. Police commissioner Satheesh Bino said that five persons arrested earlier were identified by Aneesh from a group of around 15 suspects. 
 
 “We suspect that since Aneesh did not know the accused personally, he could have made a mistake in naming the persons in his suicide note,” Bino said. 
 
 The commissioner also said the police have taken steps to provide psychiatric counselling for the woman, who was attacked along with Aneesh .
 
 
