HYDERABAD: The   (T-JAC) leader M  , who is all set to hold a massive rally on February 22 with unemployed youth and student organisations, said the TRS government should not take it as a prestige issue. He was responding to a question on the possibility of police impeding the rally, which is being held by the   to protest the alleged failure of the TRS government in filling vacancies in the government sector. 

 While speaking to the media at a meet held by the   here on Friday, Kodandaram said the Hyderabad City Police is yet to give permission to take out the rally from Sundarayya Vignana Kendram to Indira Park, even after he personally met the city police commissioner. The permission was forwarded by the commissioner to the concerned DCP, he said. “I don’t want to comment at this stage as to what our action plan will be if permission is denied. We are hoping that permission will be granted,” he said.
 
 Responding to allegations in social media that certain political forces were behind him, the TJAC leader said that the state government’s intolerance to even constructive criticism is on the rise. He demanded that the TRS government release a ‘calendar’ containing details of vacancies in each government department, public sector undertakings and most importantly, the date-line for recruitment of each category of posts.
 
 Stating that there are 1.07 lakh jobs at various levels such as district, zonal and state-level cadre posts that need to be filled up, which will not be objected by the  , he said the government has failed to live up to its assurance given to the youth during the Telangana agitation and during the polls to the Assembly. Kodandaram said youth and students from all districts are expected to attend the rally and appealed to them to make it a peaceful and democratic rally.
 
 He also added: “There is a talk over the need for establishment of a new value-based political party. But come what may, the TJAC will continue and will not be merged. I will comment about my plan to join or not only after such a political party is set up.”
 
 
