LUCKNOW: The rumblings of change are visible in   and bureaucracy has suddenly discovered its new ‘Bible’-- BJP’s manifesto. So, well before the party announces its chief minister, government officials are hard at work to get the its poll manifesto ready for implementation.

 Different government departments have requested the   headquarters in Lucknow for additional copies of the manifesto, and chief secretary   held two meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday to get officers to plan ahead. A bureaucrat on condition of anonymity, said, “It is unclear whether the instructions have been conveyed by the party or whether it is purely a bureaucratic initiative to appear ‘with it’. At any rate, it is an exercise to understand the priorities of the new party and to fall in line, accordingly.”
 
 Until Wednesday, the forest department, for instance, forwarded its presentation to the office of the chief secretary, on BJP poll promises relating to social forestry and protecting agricultural produce against stray animals and blue bulls. There is also a plan to carry out plantation exercises on national holidays. “We have sent our input on how we will achieve plantation target,” said Rupak De, PCCF, UP. 
 
 Considering most of the BJP’s poll promises will be implemented through the social welfare department, officials here are also readying for action. On Tuesday, the secretary’s office called the BJP headquarters requesting for a copy of Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra, the official name of the manifesto. A senior BJP leader said officials from other department have also raised similar requests. In fact, BJP leaders have now supplied several copies of the manifesto at the party office for anyone who might needs a copy. “I ensured that around 30 copies are kept at BJP office so that it could be given to the officials of the department as when they need it,” the leader said. 
 
 Officials at medical education department are evaluating prospects of opening more medical colleges in the state as BJP had promised to start 25 new medical colleges in its tenure. They are also working on projects for super-speciality hospitals and AIIMS like institutes for various regions of UP. 
 
 In health and family welfare department, the target is to reduce the reaction time of an ambulance from 20 minutes in urban areas and 30 minutes in rural areas to flat 15 minutes. The BJP manifesto also talks about modernisation of labour rooms and opening health sub-center in every village. 
 
 “As per Indian Public Health Standards, UP needs 31,000 sub-centers but only 20,000 are available. We are looking into possibility of rolling out at least 5,000 health centers in the first year,” and officer said. 
 
 Excel sheets and hectic arithmatic was also underway in the agriculture department, likley to become the focal point from where the BJP may execute its poll promise to waive farmer loans. 
 
 
