Malayalis will be treated to a stellar line-up of traditional folk art forms involving 500 artistes from 10 States as Trivandrum turns host for the first   ( ). 

 The three-day festival which kicked off yesterday is being organised by the State Youth Welfare Board in association with Bharat Bhavan and Vyloppilli Samskruti Bhavan. 
  The programme envisaged as a platform to showcase ethnic art forms will have Kanakakkunnu, Nishagandhi and Manaveeyam Veedhi as its venues. Seminars on art forms would make the festival an interactive one. 
 
 
 
 The NFFK is the first-of-its-kind festival which highlights the varied culture and traditional art forms from across the country. P Biju, chairman of the Youth Welfare Board says, “Though we have been organising folklore festivals for several years they were small events with only four to five artistes. So this year, we decided to launch a full-fledged programme showcasing lesser known art forms and artistes for the Kerala audience. Though it was arranged at short notice, we have managed to include internationally acclaimed folk artistes in this event. In the coming years, we wish to scale it up to the level of the International Film Festival of Kerala.” 
 
 
 
 The three-day festival promises to give the audience colourful vignettes of rural life and folk culture of India. Programme director of NFFK, Pramod Payyannur says, “Folk art forms from Theyyam to Kashmiri dance forms will be presented in the festival. It will be for the first time that the State is witnessing such a massive folk music and dance festival. Folk arts form the root of all major art forms. The festival aims to conserve and promote them for future generations. It is also a cultural exchange event.”
 
 One of the main highlights of the festival was Jashan-e-Kashmir on the opening day. “More than 150 artistes from Jammu and Kashmir performed around 12 art forms. It included dance and music from the lives of people from the valley. The region is home to various folk arts unknown to outside world which convey brotherhood and unity in religions. It is admirable to see them perform music and dance about peace and humanism though they live in the fear of militant attacks,” says Pramod. The festival will also line up a wide variety of art forms like Kalbelia, a Rajasthani dance form that will remind you of the movements of a snake, which is performed by the Kalbelia community of snake charmers.
 Sahajiya, a renowned folk music band from West Bengal will perform here for the first time. 
 
 The team from Punjab will present their traditional dance forms such as Bhangra, Jago and Giddha. The performances of artistes from Jaisalmer would help the audience to get an idea about the traditional attire and lifestyle of the place, located near Pakistan. It will also feature Dullu Kunitha, a Karnataka folk dance form and bamboo music from Kerala.
 Carnatic, Sufi and folk music adaptations of the earth song Naam Onnalle Nammal Onnalle passed on from generation to generation as part of the oral tradition, was presented by 20 artistes each. An interactive Chattu Pattu by C J Kuttappan provides a peek into the ethnic culture of the state.
 
 
 
 “Chayakkada Varthamanangal (tea-shop talks) is another highlight of the festival. Artistes perform casual interactions and acts reminding one of the villages of the past. Also, there will be a special performance on Kaliveena by artiste Shahjahan, who has been performing this art form for the last 40 years in front of the Padmanabha Swamy Temple,” adds Pramod.
 
  The final day of the festival will showcase Perumkaliyattam — a procession of Theyyam artists from Nishangandhi till Manaveeyam Veedhi. Prajeesh R M, Theyyam artiste, says, “The art form which is confined to the Malabar regions will be presented to the city folk here in its full fervour, after having taken the traditional vrutham. The traditional Theyyam artistes will be performing the art form. The public can also witness the live chamayam or mukhathezhuth or the green room practices of the Theyyam from 2 pm. There will be around 24 artistes, who will perform 10 Theyyam forms along with musicians. Othayanan Theyyam, Amma Theyyam, Karingaali, Naaga Kaali, Gulikan, Bhagavathi Kolangal will be a few among them.” To evoke a village ambience the streets from Kanakakunnu to Manaveeyam will be lit up with palm fronds, lanterns, earthen lamps and huge oil lamps made of plantain stems, he adds.
 
 
 
 True to its concept, the NFFK practices a green protocol, say the organisers. Karamana Hari, event director of the festival says, “The festival will be an eco-friendly one and also plastic free. Except for the plastic chairs for seating, from the stage decorations to the bouquets everything is environment friendly. We have used bamboo, wood, coconut shells and plantain stems to decorate the stage. The guests are received with palm frond bouquets and olathoppi.” The festival will also include open-air stages inside the venues to do away with the closed viewership culture.
 
 
