PUNE: Union human resource development minister   said here on Saturday that the “teething issues” related to implementation of GST will be sorted out in the course of 30-45 days.

 The minister said that restaurant bills, telephone bills and cost of FMCG products should come down by 2 to 5% over the course of next one month. He also added that that fertilizer cost would drop by a fourth within a month.
 
 Javadekar had to field a volley of questions from traders who raised several issues related to GST.
 
 The minister took note of the issues raised by traders and asked them to write to him and promised to get back to them after discussing with the finance minister.
 
 Suresh Bafna, president, association of Chemists Association of Pune, said the pharmacists were at a loss as to how to deal with medicines that are returned. “When people return medicines to us, what do we do as we have already paid/collected taxes on sales?” he asked. He added that there was no clarity on GST on medicines that have a long shelf life. For instance, a druggist might procure a medicine from a supplier, on which he pays GST, but the same may not be sold for over a year. “This is being discussed by the  ,” Javadekar said.
 
 Merchant exporters’ representatives said that they faced the maximum brunt of GST as they have to pay 28% tax on certain products. Although they get reimbursement of taxes paid after the bill of shipping is provided – 90% is paid in 7 days and the balance is paid after the verification of the bill. This, merchants say, places tremendous “stress” on working capital and could make exports from India “uncompetitive”. 
 
 A dealer of used cars sought to know if the GST rate applied on the sale margin of old vehicles or on the entire vehicle value. Javadekar clarified that it only applied on the sale margin. But when the dealer pointed out that if the sale margin was considered the tax rate more than doubles compared to the previous incidence, the minister assured to look into the issue.
 
 The cinematic traders association expressed unhappiness over the issue of service charge being done away with. They also expressed dissatisfaction over local taxes being proposed on entertainment in addition to GST. Javadekar said this was being looked into at the “highest levels,” and added that “it will not happen as it defeats the purpose of GST.”
 
 On the issue of 18% tax on restaurant bill, Javadekar said that rate of taxes will not change as the menu cost in both AC and non-AC restaurant is different.
 
