MUMBAI: These aren't rosy times for the  . Saturday witnessed the kick off of what is set to be the last season of the competition with the   poised to take over the mantle of Indian football's top flight division from next season.

 In such a bleak scenario, you can't help feel for coaches of I-League clubs. One of the fundamental jobs of the head coach of any football club is getting your players to believe that the hard yards they are putting in today is aimed at some sort of long term target. But if you look at the  's (AIFF) proposed roadmap for the sport, it's hard for most I-League clubs to spot one.
 
 You could thus understand why  's new man at the helm, Santosh Kashyap, preferred not to look that far ahead for now. "What I believe is that's long term. I'm thinking of Sunday's game," Kashyap smiled as he addressed reporters on the eve of his team's season opener against state rivals   at Cooperage. "So I'm taking it one game at a time, I don't think long term," he added.
 
 Yet the former Air India and ONGC boss admitted he had a few ideas on how his club could take their place in the new scheme of things. "Definitely I've envisioned something. Everyone is trying their best I believe. It's a transitional moment in Indian football, so a lot of good things happening as well as some bad things. "It's not in my control. You have to think positive that whatever happens, happens for the good of Indian football's future."
 
 Like Mumbai, Pune-based DSK Shivajians, who finished bottom of the table last season, have also had a change on the bench with Englishman Dave Rogers replacing Derrick Pereira. And like his counterpart, Rogers, too, is keeping his focus on just what's within his control. "I can't affect what's happening at Mumbai, Bengaluru or Mohun Bagan. I can affect what happens at DSK Shivajians," said the 41-year-old Liverpool native who attempted to paint an optimistic picture of things to come. "There's a lot of good people in this country, a lot of good football clubs and behind the scenes there's a lot of good work going on to try and make our I-League become the league that it should be."
 
 Kashyap has been entrusted with the task of helping Mumbai improve on their fifth place finish from the previous campaign, and despite no foreign players on board yet, he reiterated a top-three finish was a realistic target. "We are in the process of recruiting foreign players," said Kashyap revealing that midfielder Allan Dias would miss Sunday's Maharashstra derby with a hamstring injury.
 
