CHENNAI: The Union ministry of environment and forests has granted clearance for the conversion of overhead power lines to underground cables in disaster-prone   district under the state's coastal disaster risk reduction programme. The expert appraisal committee of the ministry for coastal regulation zone cleared the Rs 389 crore world bank-sponsored project earlier this month. The scheme will be launched shortly after awarding contracts and will take a minimum of two years to complete, sources say.

 The state government is working on a similar exercise for   and   towns and a proposal will be sent to the ministry soon for clearance. "The expert committee observed that the proposal does not entail irreversible implications in so far as sensitivity of the area from   considerations is concerned and therefore decided to recommend the proposal for clearance," the minutes of the meeting quoting the committee said. The state coastal zone management authority recommended the project in March, aimed at converting 22KV overhead lines in different packages. The bank has approved the project, based on a detailed project study by a Delhi-based consultancy firm.
 
 The town has been battered by multiple disasters in the past -from tsunami in 2004 to cyclone Thane in 2011.The images of dangling cables and damaged poles still haunt residents in the district. Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds during the 2015 monsoon uprooted 2,000 electric poles in the coastal district disrupting power supply to 683 village panchayats. "It took nearly a month to restore power supply in 2011 after the cyclone ravaged power infrastructure. The conversion of overhead lines in the town is essential. We have plans to take up work in a phased manner in other parts of the region," said a senior government official.   has already floated tenders for a package in Cuddalore and Nagappatinam.
 
 The 198.44km-long stretch, identified for laying cables, falls under the category of coastal zone regulation II and III areas. So, the CRZ clearance is a must from the ministry. The environment impact assessment report of the project indicated that the existing overhead network would be reused in different areas.
 
