CHANDIGARH:   has a special reason to look forward to the   scheduled for  . Since a new vice-president elected will also be the chancellor of Panjab University, the matter regarding central university status for Panjab University will be taken up with him. The   will be apprised about the matter and his opinion will be sought. This was deliberated upon in the syndicate meeting here on Sunday, said sources. The syndicate, however, decided that the matter will be again discussed in the next meeting.

 The syndicate on Sunday welcomed the recommendations of the committee chaired by senator Jarnail Singh on the issue of central status of PU and it has asked for enumeration of benefits to universities at Allahabad, Sagar and Garhwal, on being elevated to the status of central universities in 2005 and 2009. These will be put before the syndicate again next month. It was discussed in the meeting that there should be clearance from all stakeholders of the university to proceed for the central university status to Panjab University. 
 
 In a meeting held by the committee headed by Jarnail Singh on July 12, the committee had decided that the university should go ahead with the resolution to get the central university status, provided the structure and autonomy of the governing bodies was maintained, the affiliation of the colleges retained and service conditions of the non-teaching employees of the varsity protected. The sub-committee was formed by the Panjab University syndicate to prepare the pros and cons of converting the university. The committee had added these three conditions to the concept note already prepared by the sub-committee. 
 
 Sources said that the non-teaching and teaching staff representatives had said that the non-teaching staff had no problem with PU getting the central university status, provided the service conditions were protected. However, in a recent gate meeting of the Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association, the non-teaching staff had decided that they want a centrally funded university but not central university. Sources said that the committee members had unanimously agreed on the fact that they had no problem with the nomenclature given to the university, you can call it a centrally-funded university, a heritage university or central university, however, the main concern is that it should be owned by the Centre, observed the committee members.
 
 They had also observed that getting the central university status was a long-term solution for the university’s financial crisis. Since the MHRD increased the grant for the varsity from Rs 197.73 crore to Rs 207.80 crore for 2017-18 and Punjab government also increased its grant for PU to Rs 33 crore, the committee members observed that university should look for a long-term solution.
 
 Regarding the concern that PU has about 180 affiliated colleges and once it becomes central, these colleges would be disaffiliated, the committee members had already discussed this issue and said that this was misinformation. In 2009, three state universities Ghasiram University, Bilaspur, Hari Singh Gour University, Sagar, and Hemvati Nandan Behuguna University, Garhwal, were made central universities. Prior to these, Allahabad University , University of Pudduchery , Manipur University and Nagaland University were elevated from state to central. These universities continue to have affiliated colleges.
 
 
