LUCKNOW: A major   which came to the fore in the case of   Anurag Tewari's death is that the doors of the   where he stayed are never locked. 

 Tewari's body was found outside the guest house on Meerabai Marg in the morning of May 17.
 
 On Monday, his family visited the building where several VIPs stay and saw that the entrance and exit doors give access to visitors throughout the night. 
 
 Tewari's mother Sushila, brother Mayank, sister-in-law Sunita and childhood friend PN Shukla visited the guest house and scene of crime after meeting the chief minister and SSP and interacted with employees. The family was escorted by police. 
 
 "Many visitors arrive at the guest house at odd hours. They travel from other districts and reach in the wee hours. We realize how paramount security is now and on May 18, we sent a proposal to install CCTV cameras at strategic points," said Ravindra Pratap Singh, manager of the Meerabai Marg guest house.
 
 Though it is clear that Tewari entered and exited the building at least thrice between 7pm on Tuesday and 5.30am the next morning, nobody seems to have spotted him there. No movement or activity of his has been recorded in a CCTV camera. The loophole has increased the difficulty of the police.
 
 Though the police believed Tewari died of medical complications, a postmortem report said he died due to asphyxia. SSP Deepak Kumar constituted a team to investigate the suspicious death thereafter.
 
 However, Tewari's family remained unconvinced. On Monday, an FIR was lodged at   under murder charges against unknown persons. UP government said it would refer the case to CBI as the demanded by the family. 
 
 Tewari spent a lot of time with his batchmates during his stay in Lucknow. He was staying with IAS officer PN Singh, vice-chairman of Lucknow Development Authority, at the guest house. 
 
 "How can we expect justice from UP Police when IAS, IPS and IRS officials fall under the scope of investigation. He might have been murdered by anybody. We hope CBI will uncover all facts," said Tewari's brother Mayank.
 
