KOLKATA: A bill tabled in Parliament to give autonomy to the premier B-schools, including IIM Calcutta, has sparked a controversy in the world of politics and academia because of its inbuilt political overtones.

 Opposition members, particularly Congress, see no reason why the exercise should include dropping the prefix `Rajiv Gandhi' from the Indian Institute of Management, Shillong. The bill also proposes to change the name of IIM Calcutta to  . Experts fear the move will not only erode the IIM-C brand value, but also confuse applicants and employers since IIM Kozhikode is also popularly known as IIM-K.
 
 The move to snip Ranjiv Gandhi's name from IIM Shillong comes on the heels of the Budget dropping the former PM's name from four central schemes -Rajiv Gandhi Panchayat Sashaktikaran Abhiyan, Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship for Students with Disabilities, Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship for Scheduled Caste Students and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Abhiyan. All the four schemes from which Rajiv Gandhi's name was dropped were introduced during the Congress-led UPA regime.The move is a continuation of the “cleansing“ process that saw Gandhi family names being dropped from other welfare schemes in recent times.
 
 West Bengal Pradesh Congress president and MP Adhir Chowdhury saw in the process a “de-Congressization bid“ by the Modi government.
 
 “This is a typical expression of fascist forces. They are into building a personality cult, wiping out history and names of national leaders. The first step is to demolish tradition, erase history and diversity . The next step is to build a personality cult, all in the name of Narendra Modi. The name change is part of this de-Congressization bid by the Modi government.It is like the de-Maoisation bid in communist China,“ Chowdhury said.
 
 The Congress MP also pointed to the personal attacks on Nobel laureate Amartya Sen by BJP's Bengal MLA Dilip Ghosh to substantiate his “fascist“ theory .
 
 The proposed change of name of IIM-Calcutta, the biggest and oldest among the country's B-schools, has also raised the hackles of IIM-C's board of governors. A board of governors meeting held in the institute last week had resolved that the name change could be a “mistake“ and the HRD ministry should be alerted so that an “errata“ can be incorporated.
 
 “The name was registered under the Societies Act and cannot change in this manner. We are sure there is a mistake and we have alerted the Centre. We are sure that an erratum will be incorporated before the bill is tabled,“ said institute director Saibal Chattopadhyay .
 
 The IIM-C alumni association has also sent a letter to the director protesting against the purported name change. “This is ridiculous. IIM-Bangalore is not being called IIM-Bengaluru though the name of the city has changed. So why us?   remains the way it is, why then change our name,“ said president of the association, G M Kapur. “We already have an IIM-K (IIM Kozhikode). How can there be two IIM-Ks?“ he said.
 
