NOIDA: A special court in Lucknow issued a production warrant against Noida Ponzi kingpin   and his two aides, who were arrested on February 2 by UP Police’s special task force (STF) for allegedly engineering a Rs 3,700-crore scam.

 Mittal, the CEO of his main company Ablaze Info Solutions, Shridhar Prasad, and another aide Mahesh Dayal are in judicial custody in Greater Noida jail. The warrant was issued by the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. Last Sunday, the Enforcement Directorate had filed an FIR under PMLA and started an investigation into the multi-crore  . The court has ordered the police to produce the three accused before it on February 10.
 
 A senior ED official said the same day, the agency will move an application seeking custody of the trio. The ED had conducted raids in Ghaziabad, Noida and Kanpur on Sunday, seized documents and attached properties of the accused.
 
 Investigators said Mittal and his partners had cooked the company’s balance sheets to show losses and evade taxes even as the Ponzi scheme he had floated grew at a breathless pace for a year and a half. Mittal had floated  , under which he ran gthe online Ponzi scheme that promised returns on liking links and pages, in August 2015.
 
 On August 26, 2016 he filed the annual audit report with the income tax department for the financial year 2015-16, and declared the company had a revenue of Rs 26.37 crore and disbursement of Rs 30.69 crore, investigators said. In the previous year, the company had declared a loss of Rs 17,500.
 
 Investigators suspect the strategy was to declare the company bankrupt in the long run. 
 
 Amit Pathak, SSP of the STF, said, “This is to ensure they evade law-enforcement agencies and declare the company bankrupt. Should they land in trouble, this would save themselves from payment liabilities. If they show profit in their balance sheet, they also need to pay taxes to the IT department.” 
 
 Investigators said since the company’s pyramid schemes expanded exponentially, Anubhav and his associate accumulated a huge amount of money. 
 
 The STF has so far traced Rs 520 crore in 12 bank accounts and frozen that. But they believe huge sums have been stashed away. STF sleuths also said the company had no other source of income other than the investors’ money despite Social Trade being designed as a digital marketing initiative. 
 
 They used the same money to pay, rent premises, give returns and buy properties, investigators said.
 
 
