PATNA: Deputy CM   Prasad Yadav on Saturday came out in open support of some JD (U) functionaries, who have been demanding projection of Nitish Kumar as the opposition’s prime ministerial candidate in 2019 general election, saying a politician from Bihar would defeat PM Narendra Modi in the next parliamentary polls.

 “Speaker sir, only a Bihari will stop the BJP in the 2019 parliamentary election. Only a Bihari will defeat Narendra Modi in the next general election,” Tejashwi, the younger son of RJD boss Lalu Prasad, said in the state assembly in an oblique reference to JD (U) functionaries’ demand of projecting Nitish as PM candidate for the 2019 polls.
 
 CM Nitish Kumar was present in the House when Tejashwi, who is also road construction minister, made the remark while responding to the opposition members’ cut motion on his department’s annual budget.
 
 Tejashwi’s emphatic declaration at the end of his speech was hugely appreciated by treasury benches. When RJD and JD (U) members were thumping benches in support of Tejashwi’s announcement, Nitish maintained a stoic calm.
 
 Being Lalu’s son, Tejashwi’s remark holds much significance in political circles as it is widely believed that Tejashwi can’t make any such statement without getting his father’s prior approval.
 
 The chorus to project Nitish as opposition’s PM candidate has gained fresh momentum in the state after the drubbing of SP-Congress alliance and BSP at the hands of BJP in the just concluded UP election.
 
 Several JD (U) and RJD functionaries are of the opinion that after the humiliating defeat of the Congress-SP alliance in UP and failure of AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal, another contender for the PM post, to get impressive win in Punjab, only Nitish can give a befitting challenge to Modi in the next general election.
 
 Tejashwi, who addresses Nitish as ‘chacha’ (uncle), holds a very cordial relation with the CM. Earlier too, he had brushed aside the suggestion of some RJD top functionaries, including former CM Rabri Devi (Tejashwi’s mother), that he (Tejashwi) should replace Nitish as Bihar CM.
 
 “Hamare chacha CM hain, CM rahe hain, aur aage bhi rahenge (Our uncle is CM. He was the CM and will continue as the CM),” Tejashwi had said on February 26.
 
 
