KOLKATA: If you have been missing the   this season, your wait may have just got longer. Trawlers hunting for the silvery delight have returned to sea this week but have failed to procure a healthy catch. So far, Kolkata has been receiving just 20% of the daily supply it received in July-August 2016.

 A combination of unfavourable weather and import restrictions have ensured that the soft, succulent hilsa remains short in supply. Inclement weather had prevented trawlers from venturing into the estuarine rivers and the sea from where the bulk of the supply is procured. It has brought the supply to Kolkata markets down to a trickle. “Compared to a daily supply of 15-20 tonnes last monsoon, this year we have been receiving less than 3 tonnes. The local variety is being substituted by the Myanmar hilsa, which is neither as fresh nor as tasty,” said  , secretary of the Fish Importers’ Association.
 
 With import from Bangladesh having stopped three years ago, Myanmar is the lone alternative source. But the hilsa season in Myanmar is a different one – February-March. As a result, the imported fish are stored for the city season that begins in July. “The fish naturally loses freshness and taste. It can’t be compared to the fresh catch that comes from Digha, Frazerganj or the Sunderbans. Almost 80% of the hilsa now selling across Kolkata markets is the Myanmar variety,” added Maqsood.
 
 Bijon Maity of the Kakdweep Fishermen’s Welfare Association agreed. “Bad weather and inadequate rain reduced the hilsa catch. So far, the catch has been around 20% of the normal volume. Heavier rain helps reduce water salinity and attracts more hilsa. But it hasn’t happened so far,” he said. Last week’s heavy showers in south   could have made a difference, said Maity. But the catch has been a disappointing one. “With the weather having improved, trawlers returned to sea on Wednesday. But around 50 of them have so far returned with less than 40 quintals. The season is running out, so the chances of a supply rise are now remote,” said Maity. At present, a hilsa weighing a kilo is selling at Rs 1,000. 
 
 Among other reasons that have affected the catch in Bengal is the lack of a ‘middle zone’ in the path of hilsa migration, according to Asim Kumar Nath, associate professor at Serampore College and a hilsa researcher. Hilsas need a middle zone or ecotone while travelling from the sea to the rivers, Nath explained. 
 
