JAIPUR: At a press conference in the state capital on Wednesday,   said assertion of rights often came at the cost of sexual violence and intimidation. 

  from Thanagazi in Alwar said that her family had protested that some Gujjars in the area had undone the fencing around their fields while foraging in the forests nearby. The family demanded proper compensation to redo the fence. This was met with violent retaliation – in just one day on February 5 this year, groups of Gujjars returned to attack and set fire to their house. Her brother-in-law Hanuman undid the button on his full-sleeved shirt and revealed a swollen left arm. “Seven members of my family were all wounded and under treatment. If I too underwent surgery as recommended, who would look after them? So I put off surgery,” he said.
 
 The victims said that police were reluctant to act against the Gujjars, who seemed to be protected by their association with local MLA Hem Singh Bhadana.
 
 Chukidi from Churu district said her family had mortgaged a piece of land for Rs50,000. The family had later repaid the money, but they found that the plot had been allegedly ‘sold’ to Jats who refused to vacate the area. She complained that her family was now being threatened and intimidated as the people who have control of the land now do not want to return it and would like to see the owners of the plot leave the area.
 
  of the Rajasthan chapter of the Dalit Women’s Rights Committee said the state had failed to provide justice to the poorest and weakest. “We have submitted complaints even to the SC/ST Commission, and these have been returned to us. We are told that ‘cognizance’ has been taken, but nothing comes of it. There are so many laws – the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and provisions under the Criminal Procedure Code and the Indian Penal Code. Despite all these, and despite the schemes of the government for girl children, Dalit women and girls are made victims of larger caste struggles. Sexual violence is often a form of settling scores on matters that relate to land disputes.”
 
 Dalit rights activist Asha, who has arrived from Delhi for the meeting of Dalit women in Jaipur, said the medical system, police and even the judiciary have failed Dalits, who often cannot bear the expenses of litigation. “We will be taking this issue up at the   in Geneva in June,” she said.
 
