Bhopal: ‘Learn while you serve your detention’ seems to be the new motto of Madhya Pradesh prison department that has decided to convert the courtyards of state’s most high security jail in Bhopal into a school. Department wants every inmate to be lettered when he or she moves out after completing detention period.

 The   jail-- that witnessed one of the most daring jailbreaks by 8 alleged SIMI operatives five months ago-- will turn into a school every day for three hours mandating attendance of every convict and undertrial.
 
 The classes have already started last week, but things are yet to be in place — now only one class is being run in the library situated inside A-block of the jail. 
 
 Both the teachers and the students are either convicts or undertrials.
 
 Twenty-nine-year-old Anshul, an engineer serving a life term sentence for past seven years on charges of murdering a girl medical student in Betul district along with three accomplices says, “We have got some meaningful work by teaching fellow inmates most of whom are illiterate or semi-literates.” 
 
 Anshul, a resident of Trilanga area of Bhopal, is among one of the first inmates to volunteer as a teacher.
 
 Another inmate, who volunteered for teaching is  , 41, a graduate and is well read person who was sentenced with life term imprisonment for murder. But, recently court has acquitted him.
 
 “I will move out of the jail on March 21 after completing my sentence, but there are other educated inmates who are eager to teach others and there are a lot of inmates who are ready to study, though some need counselling,” he told TOI, while teaching other inmates. 
 
 A total of around 500 illiterate inmates have been identified, besides, Class 8th pass, 10th pass and graduates. Like in Block A of the jail there are 121 illiterate undertrials and 210 illiterate convicts and similarly in Block B there are 108 illiterate undertrials and 132 illiterate convicts. In block A of the jail there are around 63 graduates or above inmates, the graduate inmates of the jail’s block B are yet to be identified, said   sources.
 
 “From primary to middle school examinations will be conducted through the   and the examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be conducted through National Institute of Open Schooling. After Class 12, the inmates will also be able to appear for graduation and other courses through IGNOU. As of now we have centre of Rajbhasha Parishad as well as IGNOU and we have already applied for NIOS,” superintendent Central Jail, Dinesh Nargawe told TOI. 
 
 “We have received blackboards and other stationary from Bhopal School of Social Sciences. The classes have already begun but it will take another few days to make it compulsory and mandatory to ensure the attendance of each and every inmate. From March 21, attendance of all the undertrials will be mandatory,” he said. 
 
 Once in full swing these classes as per the jail authorities will be run in the courtyards of the barracks of the inmates, as the number of inmates is too much and it is not possible to run all the classes in the library. 
 
 “The timing now is of two hours in the morning but once in full flow we will run it in three shifts. For undertrials who have to go to courts or other places classes will be held early in the morning hours. For convicted inmates the class timing will be in the afternoon and then the classes will also be held in the evening,” Nargawe said. 
 
 “Once an inmate who is illiterate gets basic education he will be made to appear for primary level examination of the Rajbhasha Parishad and then shifted to next class and likewise. We are also going to start functional English courses for those inmates who are atleast 12th pass and whose two more years of sentence is still left,” he said. 
 
 As of now there are around 3000 inmates both undertrials and convicted who are lodged at the Bhopal Central Jail. 
 
