KOLKATA: The Centre is yet to send a formal instruction but the Centre but the  , in charge of  , are being extra careful while scanning laptops and similar large electronic gadgets carried by passengers.

 The precautionary step is being taken in the backdrop of the US intelligence warning against the alarming level of sophisticated technology used by al-Qaida and IS bomb-makers, who can plant explosives inside electronic devices that can go undetected by the standard screening equipment at most airports.
 
  director-general Om Prakash Singh told reporters in Kolkata that they were taking extra time while examining every laptop before allowing the passenger to go past the frisking and cabin baggage checking zone. “We are yet to receive any order from the Centre to ban laptops in cabin bags, like the prohibitions in the US and UK. But we are taking extra precaution in checking each laptop before allowing a passenger to carry it inside the aircraft,“ said Singh.
 
  has 14 baggage scanners of two different makes: Rapiscan System and Heimann X-ray Inspection System, which according to senior CISF officials, matched their needs.
 
 Multiple US media reports sugges ted that terror groups might have used sophisticated airport security equipment to test and improve their devices. One report suggested that bomb-makers could load their laptops with explosives and still get them to switch on, just long enough to dodge security-screeners, despite the missing batteries. These intelligence inputs collected and analyzed over the past few months were reportedly the leading reasons for the US and UK banning electronic devices larger than mobiles in cabin luggage on direct flights from eight Muslim-majority west Asian and African countries.
 
 A CISF official said as an additional measure, they had extended the output roller of the baggage scanner and put acrylic barrier on the sides of the roller to ensure that passengers could not pick up their bags or laptops immediately after it went through the scanning machine. 
 
 “When it comes to laptops, we ask the passenger to keep the laptop in a tray and then we change the position of the laptop by ourselves. We make it go past the scanning machine that can easily detect any foreign material planted inside it. Further, once it reaches the other side of the X-ray machine, we physically open and switch it on to check the device before allowing a passenger to claim it back,“ said a senior CISF official in Kolkata.
 
