NAVI MUMBAI: Cidco has finally started fencing the mangrove stretches on   road, which connects Sion-Panvel highway near Kharghar toll plaza with Old Mumbai-Pune highway at Taloja MIDC. The move is an attempt to prevent encroachment on wetlands and mangroves. TOI has also been reporting about the destruction of   along the creek side and infringement on the wetland area.

 S G Kapse, executive engineer of Cidco, said that they started fencing the wetland area located in the corner connecting Roadpali road with Sion-Panvel highway.
 
 Debris dumping is also a regular feature in this marine stretch apart from encroachment by sheds and shops. The town planning body also demolished a few sheds and shops, which had come up in the wetland and mangrove stretch along Taloja creek shore. The fencing is being put up as a deterrent to discourage such menace.
 
  “This is a huge parcel of wetland, which has been targeted by debris mafia and encroachers time and again. We had taken action against them many times recently but a deterrent was needed. Hence we decided to   the area,” he added.
 
 Nature lovers and activists have welcomed the move as migratory birds, which had almost disappeared from the area due to growing construction activities, would now be making a comeback. “The agencies should put up fence along the 3-km creek line. Forest department must deploy its security to save the dense mangroves,” said naturalist Ajit Jaiswal.
 
 But Kapse cautioned that they would put up fencing on the land belonging to Cidco. 
 
 “The rest of the stretch should be taken care of by the forest department. Once the node is transferred to   (PCMC), we will not be responsible for safeguarding this area,” he added.
 
 While Shivaji Thakre, range forest officer countered that, according to the high court ruling, agencies like Cidco, PCMC, police force and forest wing have equal responsibility to prevent encroachment. “We alone can’t provide protection to this green belt with limited staff,” he added.
 
 
