NEW DELHI: Eight wins and 16 points is the equation needed for a team to make it to the   play-offs. In IPL 2017, Kings XI Punjab notched up seven to end with 14 points after their worst performance of the season in their final game - that too the decider for the final play-offs spot against Rising Pune Supergiant in which they were bundled out of 73. 

 To end fifth on the points tally is by no means a disappointing season and KXIP kept their hopes alive until the last moment. They showed grit to win crucial games in the latter stages of the league phase and started the season on a positive note as well. However, they slumped in the middle with four straight loses and ultimately that proved to be the difference.
  
 
 P 14 W 7 L 7 NR -0,009 Points 14
  
 
 
  
 With their backs to the wall, KXIP had the tough ask of winning three games in a row to make the play-offs. Two of those games were against in-form teams Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians. After losing out on their early momentum, KXIP set themselves up for the late sprint toward the play-offs by first beating KKR in Mohali by 14 runs. Despite losing their highest run-getter   (420) owing to national duty, KXIP, led by skipper  's breezy 44, posted 167/6 before an inspired bowling by the underused Rahul Tewatia (2/18), Axar Patel and a near perfect fielding performance handed them a well-deserved victory. Up next was table-topper Mumbai, and with couple of changes -   opening the innings and   at No 3 - KXIP put up the highest total of the season (230). Saha made 93* off 55 and Maxwell 47 off 21 as KXIP managed to defend that total against a Kieron Pollard onslaught.
  
 
 
  
 Unfortunately, the highest of highs was followed by the lowest of lows. KXIP's last league game was against a resurgent RPS for a place in the play-offs. A virtual quarter-final; and anti-climactic it was as KXIP folded for 73 - their lowest total ever. Martin Guptill went for a first-ball duck; Saha made 13, Shaun Marsh was out for 10; Eoin Morgan run out for four and Maxwell for a three-ball duck. A potential mouth-watering affair became quite distasteful for KIXP and RPS cantered in to the play-offs.
  
 
 
  
 After the RPS loss, KXIP's director of cricket, Virender Sehwag, did not mince his words stating that Maxwell did not take responsibility as captain for his team or perform to his potential. While there is certain merit to Sehwag's assessment, as Maxwell failed to register any 50-plus scores, the blame cannot be put wholly on the Australian who was leading a side for the first time at senior level. He could have played up the order more often rather than coming at Nos 4 or 5 and team selection at times was surprising. Wrist-spinners were very successful this IPL edition, yet KXIP handed legspinner Tewatia only three games in which he bowled with an economy of 5.44. But to put this down solely on Maxwell would be wrong as it would have been a team decision, of which Sehwag too was a vital part. Maxwell, however, lost his cool many times in the field when under pressure and that pressure showed while he batted in the middle.
  
 
 
  
 Amla, with two centuries, was the most consistent player for KXIP, although the team went on to lose both those games. Sandeep Sharma was the leading wicket-taker for KXIP with two back-to-back Man-of-the-Match awards, but it was Axar who was the shining star. The allrounder put in valuable tidy spells whenever required taking 15 wickets at an average of 24.13 and also played a crucial hand with the bat, scoring 227 runs at a strike-rate of over 140. He was stellar in the field and was not only the best fielder for KXIP, but of IPL 2017 as well.
  
 
 
  
 With just 83 runs in five matches, South African David Miller proved to be a major dud this season and warmed the bench for most of the tournament. Alongside Maxwell, Miller was the man KXIP built their team around and while the added responsibility of captaincy weighed down Maxwell the batsman, Miller just failed to get going. Even though he spent considerable time in the middle, he scored at a strike-rate of 103.75. 
  
 
 
  
 Overall a fighting season marred by inconsistency. Amla's centuries proved little as batsmen failed to bat around him. Young Manan Vohra and experienced hand Saha had only one innings of note in the entire season while Maxwell had a tough time dealing with his out of form bowlers. Mohit Sharma has become a shadow of himself and leaked runs at an economy of neatly nine runs per over. Lack of international quality spinner hampered KXIP and their woes were further compounded by underusing guys like Tewatia, KC Cariappa and Swapnil Singh. Ishant Sharma, a last-minute replacement for Murali Vijay went wicket-less in his six matches while   also flattered to deceive.
 
