NEW DELHI: Traffic police will implement a diversion plan for repairs to be carried out on the   from next week.

 The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the city government's PWD have requested them for immediate intervention. The plan is to close one carriageway at a time, similar to what had been done for Defence Colony flyover last year. Heavy vehicles will be diverted to the carriageway below the flyover.
 
 More than 15 lakh vehicles use this stretch of Ring Road daily and 60,000 ply every hour on an average. The work, which is to be wrapped up in a month, will cause a bottleneck and heavy traffic congestion is expected.
 
 A section of the flyover's wall, in the carriageway carrying traffic towards Dhaula Kuan, was damaged while building a Metro subway . The 700-metre flyover is lo cated on the Africa Ave nue-Mahatma Gandhi Road (Ring Road) intersection.The road is an important artery of the city , connecting south and west.
 
 Police officers say the primary aim is to reduce the weight on the flyover. Special commissioner (traffic) Ajay Kashyap said they will divide one carriageway on the flyover into two to allow vehicles to move in both directions. “We have requested for narrow bollards to be placed which will act as dividers. Diversion signs will be put up well ahead of the flyover to inform drivers about the changes,“ said Kashyap.
 
 In the first phase, DMRC will work on the carriageway from  .“We have requested PWD to demolish the central verge up to 100 metres on both approaches to the flyover to facilitate easy diversions,“ said an officer.
 
 Although the slip road below the flyover will be available for heavy vehicles, a section may be barricaded at times for movement of machinery which may lead to snarls during peak hours.
 
 The width of each carriage way is about 20 metres which will be reduced to about 7.5 metres during the diversions.So, the police will advice commuters heading to Dhaula Kuan to go through   or   and those going towards AIIMS through   or Chanakyapuri in order to avoid getting caught in a jam.
 
 A task force under the supervision of joint commissioner Garima Bhatnagar and DCP Dinesh Gupta has been formed to conduct trial runs for the diversion plans next week before they give a go-ahead to the civic bodies to begin the repair.
 
