PATNA: Eminent sociologist and Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar on Wednesday said the country scene is as bad as the Maoist-hit Chhattisgarh. 

 Nandini said there is widespread insecurity among the people in the country as the central government is dictating terms and anyone not adhering to them is being labelled “antinational”.
 
 The   professor, who has worked in the Maoist-infested areas of Chhattisgarh for more than 10 years, said the government is portraying itself as “peace messenger” but it is promoting vigilantism against people speaking against it. She cited the example of recent killing of Bangalore-based journalist Gauri Lankesh and compared it to the murder of student leader and CPI (ML) office-bearer Chandrasekhar Prasad in 1997 to support her assertion. 
 
 “There is a common link in the killing of Chandrashekhar and Gauri. Both spoke vehemently against the government. In both cases, other people were blamed while the government kept portraying itself as ‘shantidoot’ (peace messenger),” Nandini said while addressing the 22nd Chandrashekhar memorial lecture here. 
 
 Nandini said groups like “cow vigilantes” in India are present in other countries as well and they are known by different names like “death squads”. “These groups are given a free hand by the local administration and police and, at times, provided firearms for carrying out their operations. For instance, even the Liberhan Commission report on the Babri mosque demolition had stated that it was a “public-private” act supported by the government, which portrays itself as protector of peace,” she said. 
 
 Speaking on the impact of Maoist movement on the tribal people in Chhattisgarh, Nandini said: “Tribal people in Chhattisgarh forests are living under tremendous distress. The police initially tormented them in the name of forest norms. Later, they got some support from the Maoists when CPI-ML cadre started coming from Andhra Pradesh in early 1990s and created ‘Janata Sarkars’ against police atrocities in the forests. But gradually, the Maoists also started exploiting them as they prohibited people from taking the benefits of government schemes and killed many of them on suspicion of being government informers.”
 
 
