Around 100-odd Instagrammers of Hyderabad had a field day as they gathered at   to commemorate the   recently. Comprising professional as well as amateur photographers, bloggers and artists, the motley crew met to take pictures and post them on Instagram with the hashtag  . 

 InstaMeets take place throughout the year and are a way for Instagram users to come together and celebrate their creativity by exploring a chosen location through different perspectives. The official theme for this year’s event was ‘Kind Comments’ and participants were encouraged to pass appreciative and thoughtful comments to their peers to build an amiable community. 
 
 While strolling around the Khajaguda rocks and capturing the picturesque landscape of the city, many stuck to the theme and made #kindcomments — a global movement kicked off earlier this year by Instagram to spread kindness and steer clear of cyber bullying. Subham, the organiser of the event, aka @Zuvam on Instagram, addressed the gathering, after which participants were given sheets of paper to exchange comments. 
 “It was nice to meet in person the creators of some amazing Instagram handles that I have been following for over a year. The energy of the crowd was contagious and the enthusiasm rubbed off on me as well. the meet was an apt 
 avenue to showcase the works of creative minds. I hope to attend more such Instameets in the future,” says Dhanya, who has been instagramming for close to a year now. 
 “I have been a part of the WWIM since its inception in Hyderabad, but this is my first time at this venue. It was great to have over 100 people attend the meet. The first onein 2015 had just about 30 participants, so clearly, the community is growing and it is quite heartening to see that. I got to meet some people for the first time in person, and also some old friends again. It was an overwhelming experience, no less,” says  , an HR professional who is also a photographer and sketch artist by passion. 
 The one element that grabbed everyone’s attention was micro artist Dheeraj Kolla’s creation — he carved the Instagram logo on a pencil tip! Participants flocked around the art work to capture it against the twilight colours.
 
