PATNA:  , taken off the city roads on May 10 for a week on the orders of divisional commissioner Anand Kishor, will not tow away vehicles from roadsides for few more days as the authorities are yet to demarcate parking spaces along all city roads.

 Four separate teams headed by SP (traffic), regional transport authority's secretary, executive engineer (New Capital division) of road construction department and executive officer of Patna Municipal Corporation (New Capital circle) have been tasked with identifying the parking spaces. They were asked to submit their reports to the divisional commissioner’s office by May 13.
 
 “The reports are yet to come. Once we get the reports, we will evaluate the groundwork to check if the parking and no-parking zones have been demarcated and signage put up,” Kishor told this newspaper on Tuesday.
 
 Though the commissioner refused to divulge further details, sources in the division HQ office said the jambusters would not operate for another week or so.
 
 The PMC has also launched an anti-encroachment drive to remove vendors from parking lots. Such vendors were removed from Boring Canal Road (on the stretch from Hartali Mor to Rajapur Pul) on Monday. Similar drives are being carried out in other areas.
 
 “Our anti-encroachment drives are also being carried out in Khetan Market, Hathua Market, Patna Market, Ashok Rajpath, Bari Path and MLA Flats areas,” said additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Dubey, who is currently officiating as the municipal commissioner.
 
 Asked about the livelihood of vendors, Dubey said the corporation was in the process of creating vending zones for them. “Altogether 25 vending zones are to be created. We have identified nine such zones,” he said and added the civic body would expedite the vending zone work after the municipal election was over.
 
 Parking and no-parking zones have been demarcated on Boring and Boring Canal roads besides Exhibition Road, Nala Road, Ashiana-Digha road, Fraser Road, Kankarbagh main road and Malahi Pakri. 
 
 “We are also exploring the possibilities on 15-16 other roads for demarcating parking spaces on the roadsides. Exhibition Road already has parking spaces allotted on the road but now we have created parking space under the flyover on the stretch. We are exploring all possibilities,” said SP (traffic) Prantosh Kumar Das. 
 
 
