PUNE: Of all the roads in the city that see violations by wrong side drivers, the stretch of Raja Bahadur Mill Road, between   (RTO) and the Divisional Railway Manager’s (DRM) office near Pune railway station and beyond, is rather prominent.

 In fact, a majority of motorists, who choose to travel on the wrong side of the road include two-wheeler riders trying to avoid the long wait at  .
 
 The dangerous situation has led to arguments, even fights, when some rule-breakers have reacted violently on being reproached for breaking the basic traffic rule.
 
 Damodar Kamat, a tea seller near the RTO office, said, “Around a month ago, three bikes were speeding towards the RTO office while driving on the wrong side and one of them dashed against my stall. When I objected, they threatened me with dire consequences and drove inside the premises of the RTO. I ran after them but couldn’t spot them as they must have parked their vehicles somewhere. Riding on the wrong side along this stretch of the road is so common that no one cares.”
 
 Locals pointed out that the RTO gets lot of visitors each day and most of them tend to drive on the wrong side to avoid the wait at the junction nearby.
 
 “While heading from the direction of  , for instance, motorists would have to drive all the way to the RTO Chowk to take a U-turn to enter the RTO office. Waiting at the junction consumes a lot of time as there is a signal there. Moreover, every now and then, there is a traffic jam-like situation. People somehow cross over to the wrong side of the road mainly near Sohrab Hall and continue driving until the RTO office. Personnel from the traffic police are present at the junctions near Sohrab Hall and RTO Chowk but they cannot move from the spot as these are heavy traffic zones,” an employee at the DRM office, stated.
 
 A motorist, who was seen driving on the wrong side of the road, said, “It takes a very long time to cross that intersection. We are doing it for the first time. We are very careful and drive slowly. There are many who do it.” He, of course, quickly rode away towards the RTO.
 
 Regular commuters using the arterial road said that patrolling in the stretch is crucial. “They suddenly come in our way expecting us to adjust and move from their path. I have got into many arguments with such people and, sometimes, things have got ugly but I don’t fear them. They are breaking the law and endangering lives. Someday, this will lead to a major accident,” Arjun Joshi, another DRM employee, said.
 
 
