PATNA: The ‘Affordable Housing and Slum Rehabilitation and Redevelopment Policy 2017’ of the urban development and housing department, okayed by the   cabinet on Tuesday, will help the poor realise their dream of owning a house.
 
  According to the new policy, 15% of the flats in a building over 4000sqm or above of private developers will be reserved for economically weaker sections (EWS) and low-income groups ( ). The quota will be 50% in government projects.
  
  The two category of people will be charged a   rate of Rs 2,000/sqft irrespective of the city. That is, flats reserved for these sections under this policy will be made available to them at the rate of Rs 2,000/sqft even in the state capital.
  
  In EWS flats, the carpet area can vary from 290 to 323 sqft. It will be from 538 to 646 sqft in LIG flats. The EWS buyers will also be provided parking space for a two-wheeler while the LIG buyers will be allotted parking space for two mobikes.
  
  Applicants with annual income of up to Rs 3 lakh will be categorised as EWS and those with annual income between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 6 lakh will be considered LIG-category applicants.
  
  A state level sanctioning and monitoring committee headed by the chief secretary will monitor and ensure time-bound completion of the sanctioned projects.
  
  Among other incentives to realtors, the FAR (floor area ratio) will be allowed to be increased. FAR is the total covered area of all the floors divided by the plot area. Its increase is favourable for the builders as they can increase the area of construction, thereby bringing down the cost of flats.
  
  Realtor   hailed the government’s policy. “The real estate market will now expand as it will now attract even those buyers who earlier did not have the purchasing capacity. Increase in FAR will help us construct more flats, but we have to see that there is no cap on the height. Or else, increase in FAR will be of no use,” he told TOI on Thursday.
  
  The policy also talks of another model under which land will be provided by the government and construction done on public-private-partnership mode. The selection of private developer will be made through open bidding.
  
  Under this model, the affordable housing area (AHA) will not be less than 75% of the total project area in cities with population of three lakh and above. In cities with population between one lakh and three lakh, the AHA will be 60% of the total project area. In smaller cities, the AHA will 50% of the total project area.
  
  Sources in the urban development and housing department said the housing shortage in the urban area in Bihar was estimated at 1.19 million by the technical group on housing shortage constituted by the Union government. At least 85% of the total shortage is in EWS and LIG categories.
