HYDERABAD: Frequent power breakdowns during heavy rain may soon be a thing of the past as the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) has decided to replace the conventional, uninsulated overhead power lines with covered conductors (lines) in areas that have more trees. Covered conductors are power lines that are covered by an insulating material and can withstand heavy rains, gales, and also prevent breakdowns.

  Covered conductors covering a distance of 50 km are to be put up in Banjara Hills and Kondapur areas under the existing 18 (11kv) feeders. “Tenders are being finalized for replacing the power lines and works will begin next month,” TSSPDCL director (operations) J Srinivas Reddy told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 “In the second phase, 700km-800km of power lines will get new conductors covering about 200 feeders,” the director said. The power discom has sought a loan of `150 crore from the   (REC) for replacing existing conventional lines. The discom has come up with this solution as power disruptions have become common during monsoon. In May this year too, many areas like Banjara Hills,  , Gachibowli and Madhapur suffered long power breakdowns after feeders got disturbed or tripped due to tree branches falling on power lines. 
 
 Agreeing that this is mainly due to uninsulated overhead lines, TSSPDCL officials pointed out that while laying underground cables is a costly and time-consuming affair, the covered conductors will be able to withstand heavy   and not cause breakdowns even if a tree branch falls on the line. 
 
 In Hyderabad, on an average, 1,000 feeders get affected during the monsoon season, despite civic officials taking up extensive tree trimming during the summer. Sometimes, rectification takes a day and people suffer due to power failure. In the first half of 2016-17, power under 5,628 feeders failed, with about 6,518 complaints reported in the southern discom jurisdiction consisting of erstwhile Hyderabad, Mahbubnagar, Ranga Reddy, Nalgonda and Medak districts. 
 
 The covered conductor technology, which is from Sweden, is being implemented in many states. The same will be replicated in rural   too soon, another senior   said.
 
