NEW DELHI: Four months after a former merchant navy officer went on the   at his east Delhi apartment, killing his father, attacking his neighbour and then blowing up another neighbour’s house, police have filed a charge-sheet in the case. 

 The 38-year-old man, Rahul  , was allegedly disinherited from family property by his father. He confessed that he had developed deep hatred against his parents, the   says. The accused hacked his father with a cleaver and stabbed him 36 times. 
 
 The 100-page report lists 50 witnesses, including Matta’s mother, his wife who had been living with him till the day of the attack, the guards at the   and the neighbours. The nine policemen who were injured in the gas cylinder explosion are also mentioned as witnesses.
 
 The mother has confirmed the violent behaviour of her son. Her testimony was recorded as evidence to prove that Matta was not having cordial relationship with his parents. 
 
 His wife has told police that she had gone to meet Matta’s parents two months before the incident but was humiliated by his father Ravinder. This had enraged Matta and he refused to go back to his apartment again.
 
 Actor V K Sharma, who lost his house in the gas explosion triggered by Matta, has also deposed before the police, along with his wife. Security guard Nandan, who too was attacked by Matta, is the prime witness to the incident. 
 
 In his statement, Nandan said that while on the killing spree, Matta claimed that he would attack anyone who had supported his parents. Police claim that he had planned to kill himself after this episode.
 
 The probe revealed that Matta had planned his moves before going on the attacking spree. Cops traced the owner of the shop from which he had bought the weapons. 
 
 The sequence of events was captured by   cameras. After killing his father, Rahul had rushed upstairs and stabbed a neighbour in her flat. He then tried to take another neighbour hostage and locked himself in his house.
 
 When cornered by police, the man switched on the LPG supply and blew up the flat, injuring at least nine policemen who had arrived on the scene of the mayhem. 
 
