 votes on March 4 in the sixth phase. The region touches the forested terai at the   in the north extending southward braided with rivers Rapti, Tamsa and Ghagra. Its population density averages 1,165 persons per square kilometre, the highest in the state. But this density is not from urbanisation that’s only 11%. It’s an ancient land, always with large populations of cultivators and traditional industries, but now straining under the burden.

 Small-holding agriculture — wheat, paddy, pulses, and sugarcane the main produce — dominates the local economy.
 
 Average land holding size is just 0.55 hectares. Across Gorakhpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ballia districts, dying embers of traditional industry including weaving and garment manufacture, wooden artifacts, black pottery are visible.   remains a hub for trade in hides and leather, but a pale shadow of its past. Mau became a boom town after the power loom was introduced in the 1970s as it competed with Varanasi in making saris. But it’s now reduced to mostly family-based handloom or powerloom units.
 
 In Palki cluster, there are 21,000 such units registered but they employ just 40,000 workers — about two workers apiece. Mostly out contracted by traders, locals are involved in home-based and micro level work across the region. The pitifully lowpaying work ranges from bidi-making to bindi-making in Deoria, or wooden furniture in Ballia. Small agro-processing units are in abundance, fed by the surrounding sown fi elds. As a result, though the region has about 10% of the state’s enterprises, only about 4.5% of the state’s workers are employed here, indicating how tiny these enterprises are.
 
 Stagnation has left the region with a per capita income a third lower than the state average. District level income fi gures are a revelation: Mau, which boasts of only very small textile enterprises still emerges with a better income than Azamgarh or Ballia, and of course, much better than pure farm economies as in Kushi Nagar or Maharajganj in the north.
 
 One deadly feature of the region that highlights the extreme neglect by successive governments is the annual toll from encephalitis.
 
 Spread by mosquitoes, which thrive in this heavy rainfall region dotted with lakes and ponds, over 4,000 people, mostly children, have died of this disease in the past six years. There is only one place to go to for ‘brain fever’ as it is called: the Baba Raghav Das Hospital at Gorakhpur. Though of late it’s been given equipment and personnel, it is woefully short.
 
 
