GAYA: Several localities in the town got marooned in September last year on account of blockade of  , the main drain that facilitated smooth outflow of rainwater and other municipal effluents to   river. CM   had to rush to the town to take a first-hand account of the man-made problem as the marooning of the south   areas like Pant Nagar and   was attributed to reckless construction and encroachment of the Mansarwa Nala. The alleged encroachers included a former mayor.
 
  During his visit, the CM had directed the district officials to ensure that encroachments on the Mansarwa Nala were removed. At that time, the drive was suspended after the exit of accumulated rainwater on the ground that certain conditions like issuance of notice are to be met before removing/demolishing permanent encroachments and earth condition too did not favour hassle-free movement of bulldozers.
  
  After public outcry against the suspension of the drive and fear that the September 2016 tragedy may revisit the town this monsoon, the district administration has once again launched the encroachment removal drive.
  
  After measurement, nearly five dozen residential buildings have been identified for partial demolition on account of drain encroachment. The drive to remove the encroachment has also met with local resistance and one of the house owners reportedly attempted self-immolation to prevent encroachment removal. The man who attempted immolation by pouring kerosene oil on Friday was promptly overpowered and a criminal case has been registered against him.
  
  DM Kumar Ravi told this correspondent on Sunday that the anti-encroachment drive over Mansarwa Nala and even Bottom Nala would be taken to its logical conclusion.
  
  Activist Bhagwan Bhaskar said in the absence of an effective mechanism to prevent re-encroachment, not much can be expected. Almost all encroachments are made in connivance with municipal officials and accountability is never fixed for the same. For anti-encroachment to be really effective, proper mapping and record keeping was required and local officials, including circle officers and municipal corporation officials must be dealt with stringent punishment in case of re-encroachment, he said.
