NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister  's one-time mentor and social crusader   on Sunday said he was "deeply disappointed" by the 
  , who is in hot water after a minister claimed to have seen him receiving Rs 2 crore in cash.

 "I've waged a war on corruption for the last 40 years and Arvind Kejriwal had once stood by me in this endeavour. It was the 'India Against Corruption' movement that raised Kejriwal to the position of Delhi chief minister. But now, these allegations of corruption against him are deeply disappointing. I'm speechless," Hazare told reporters at his native village Ralegan Siddhi.
 
 Earlier in the day, sacked Delhi minister 
  from his cabinet colleague  . Mishra's allegation comes at a time when the   is embroiled in an internal feud after a string of poor electoral performances.
 
 "I saw with my own eyes Satyendar Jain giving Rs 2 crore in cash to Arvind Kejriwal at his residence. When I asked Kejriwal, he said such things happen in politics and it will be revealed later," 
  earlier in the day.
 
 Hazare did not comment whether or not he believed these allegations. However, when asked if this incident had crushed his dream of corruption-free nation, he replied in the affirmative.
 
 "My dream was shattered the moment 3 out of 6 ministers (in the AAP cabinet) resigned. Now a minister in the party has claimed that he saw Kejriwal accepting Rs 2 crore... it makes me very sad," he lamented.
 
 He added that the charges of corruption against Kejriwal and the party should be verified.
 
 "The entire country is looking with great expectation towards our fight against corruption, so these charges need to be verified," he said.
 
 Hazare had distanced himself from Kejriwal after the former taxman launched the Aam Aadmi Party in 2012 despite his objections. Since then, the anti-corruption crusader's remarks have indicated that all was not well between him and Kejriwal. 
 
 Last month, Hazare had strongly criticized Kejriwal after the Shunglu committee report indicted the AAP government for bypassing law, nepotism and financial irregularities among others. He's said he'd never support the way the Delhi government broke all rules and laws and panned Kejriwal for "forgetting all principles in the pursuit of power."
 
 The AAP had risen to power in Delhi on the promise of a corruption-free, transparent governance and its 'Aam Aadmi' appeal. 
 
