MUMBAI: New York is several things to Indians, but lacked in renown is its annual marathon. However, the past four years has seen several Indians— amateurs and professional runners—fly to the start line of the marathon in the world’s fashion capital, besides Berlin, Boston, Amsterdam and Austria.

 Over 5.4 lakh people finish a marathon every year across the world. India may not have a huge number of globe trotting marathoners such as newly anointed chairman of Tata Sons  , but the number is increasing.
 
 Sustaining the chill along the 20-km Amstel river patch or going up the notorious incline of heartbreak hill in Boston, for many, Sundays are spent edging out runners and reaching the finish line. Whether it the wave-run of Tokyo that takes two hours for participants to clear past the start point or the altering elevations of the  , Indians are fighting their past personal records to make new ones on race-day.
 
 “In the last four years, we have seen people from Mumbai fly to participate in long distance runs, and now the trend is picking up in Bengaluru too,” says Deepak Londhe, co-founder  , a training company that has 2,000 marathoners under it. “Six years ago, no one from India went abroad to run a race. Now, nearly 100 of our runners travel every year for the Amsterdam marathon,” Londhe added. 
 
 According to rough estimates, close to 300 Indians ran the Amsterdam marathon last year. Berlin is a close second in terms of popularity, followed by New York and Tokyo. “This year, we will also be represented in the London marathon,” he says. 
 
 Sunday’s marathon will have 226 runners flying into Mumbai for the run, with the largest contingent coming from the US. “Runners love challenges and hence criss-cross the globe to run in marathons,” says Brinston Miranda, founder of  , another runners’ group. Nearly 25 of his runners travel out each year for the full marathon. Run India Run, another large running band, sees its runners excited about trying runs in new locales. “The terrain, the weather, the spectators and the mood makes one feel like rockstar. The festivity is a magnet,” says   who has run seven international marathons, including the one in NY, described by writer E B White as an arena that brings together "the gladiator, the evangelist, the promoter, the actor, the trader, the merchant". May we add, and the runner.
 
 
