KOLHAPUR: The city   department has captured over 6,000   in the city and nearby talukas on   (CCTV) cameras installed in 65   in the city till April end, a report from the city traffic   revealed.

 Ashok Dhumal, city traffic police inspector, said the department started monitoring traffic violations from the month of July, last year, from the control room set up at the superintendent of police (SP) office.
 
 “Out of these 6,146 violators, we have served notices to 3,792 individuals and have collected a fine of Rs 1.91 lakh. The rest 2,354 violators soon will be served notices. Once served with the notice, the concerned individual has to pay the fine within a week,” he said.
 
 Dhumal added that of the given offenders, around 3,500 were captured in the month of April alone, when the drive against traffic violators was intensified.
 
 “Due to the work load and manpower crunch, we are unable to serve notices within time. It takes time to prepare the notice in name of concerned individual and send it on the registered address,” he said, adding sometimes technical problems also play a spoilsport in delaying the notice process.
 
 According to the official, major violations included signal jumping, triple seat driving, talking over mobile phone while driving, and parking in the no parking zone.
 
 “The traffic department is not concerned about the fine collected or the number of violators, all we want is people to be aware of traffic rules that they have to follow and ensure nobody suffers due to their reckless behavior,” Dhumal said.
 
 “Now, that the news of CCTV cameras being installed in over 60 locations across the city is already spread among citizens and youths, they are bit cautious while driving,” he added.
 
 On the working of the CCTV unit, he said a designated person looks after the violations at the control room set up at SP office. “The person records the details such as vehicle number and sends the data to the Regional transport office (RTO) to get the details of the individual. Once we get the details from RTO, a notice is sent to the violators address by the traffic police department,” he added.
 
 When a notice is served to the violators, they are given seven days’ time to pay the fine at the traffic police department. “If the concerned individual does not show up within seven days, a re-notice is served with the warning of filing a court case,” he said. 
 
