PALAKKAD: Glowing tributes were paid to  , whose mortal remains were put to samadhi in the presence of a large number of people at Kayarampara Palayam Ashram at Ottapalam on Friday.

 Swami  , who had spent many decades in the ashram, passed away at a private hospital at Palakkad on Thursday evening. He was admitted to the hospital with old age-related health problems on Wednesday.
 
 The Swamiji had been confined to the ashram for the last two years due to age-related health problems.
 
 He started   at Kayarampara and gave holistic treatment for many life-threatening diseases to people in many parts of the state and even outside. He had cured many patients who had lost hope in the modern medicine.
 
 He practised and popularized holistic ayurveda treatment. He offered treatment for a wide variety of diseases, including cancer, kidney stone, diabetes, ulcer and arthritics and liver and heart diseases in his ashram and regularly visited many hospitals in the state.
 
 He trained a number of ayurveda doctors who still continue his holistic ayurveda medicine treatment.
 
 Every month he used to visit   in Kollam with which he had an emotional attachment as he was an ardent disciple of great Yogi, social reformer and thinker Chattambi Swamikal.
 
 His spiritual discourses, including on Bhagavad Gita, were very popular. Among his famous works is ‘Bhagavad Gitayude Siddhantham’, an interpretation. He had also written many books and articles on the treatment of cancer.
 
 He combined his specialized treatment methods with his long experience in the traditional ayurveda medical treatment and practices. He also promoted natural medicine to give patients with a high level of holistic system of ayurveda medical care that cured many impossible cases.
 
 Many noted aurveda doctors used to visit him to get a practical knowledge of his method of treatment or diagnosing the diseases. He was a highly respected spiritual leader who went round to give discourses and speeches in many parts of the country and even abroad.
 
