Nagpur: In a setback to former MP Vilas Muttemwar camp within Congress, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday rejected the petition of his protégé Vikas Thakre challenging the move to delete his name from the list of persons recommended for being nominated as corporator in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) from Congress quota. A division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye rejected former mayor’s contention that his nomination was finalized by ousted leader of opposition Sanjay Mahakalkar on May 18 before the latter was forced to move by rival faction led by Tanaji Wanwe. The judges also cited court’s August 31 verdict in which they rejected Mahakalkar’s plea challenging Wanwe’s appointment as new LOP by divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar on May 19, claiming support of 16 out of 29 Congress corporators in the NMC. Arguing on Thakre’s behalf, senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Shantanu Khedkar, pointed out that Mahakalkar was elected as group leader and his appointment was endorsed by Kumar. Later, he was formally approved as leader of opposition in the NMC by mayor Nanda Jichkar. Therefore, Mahakalkar’s nomination of Thakre, made before that of Kishor Jichkar by rival camp still held true. They also informed that when Jichkar submitted his nomination form, it wasn’t backed by any recommendations from then LOP Mahakalkar. They stated the commissioner’s move to convene general body meeting on Saturday for consideration of subjects including nomination of Jichkar without mentioning Thakre’s name was illegal. Firdos Mirza, appearing for Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) general secretary Ganesh Patil, also supported senior lawyers’ contentions. Mahakalkar, represented by senior counsel Surendra Kumar Mishra, endorsed their stand as well. Senior counsels Chandrashekhar Kaptan and Sunil Manohar, appearing for NMC and Wanwe respectively, argued that Jichkar’s nomination was made on May 16 itself by a majority of corporators although it was made official three days later. The judges citing August 31 judgment clarified that Mahakalkar had failed to demonstrate any violation of his legal right or any provision of 1949 Act or 1986 Act or 1987 Rules. No case is, therefore, made out warranting intervention. They also validated Kumar’s action of appointing Wanwe replacing Mahakalkar. The petitioner, also the city Congress president, had opposed Jichkar’s nomination as a corporator by the rival Congress faction. Terming commissioner’s move illegal, arbitrary and contrary to provisions of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Rules, 2012, he demanded quashing and setting aside Jichkar’s nomination. Thakre prayed for staying entire nomination process of Congress party which would be held during NMC’s general body meeting on Friday. He demanded directives to the respondents to add his name in the nomination list and deleting of Jichkar’s name.