VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourists will not be able to enjoy a ride in the glass-domed Vizag-Araku tourist train this summer as refurbishment of Vistadome coaches at the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Perambur, Chennai, was affected due to   that hit the city in December last year.

 The train was announced three years ago and two coaches were already bought with the help of funds sanctioned by IRCTC and the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) has already given a no-objection certificate ( ) to the train to operate on the KK line from Vizag to Araku following which the concerned officials approached the ICF to refurbish the coaches by importing the materials required for it. 
 
 According to railway sources, the ICF has already procured all the requisite materials to refurbish the special coaches and was scheduled to complete the work by December. However, cyclone Vardah hit Chennai in the second week of December and damaged the ICF workshop badly.
 
 “Though nearly two months have passed since the cyclone, we are yet to resume the works. If everything goes smoothly, then we will be able to complete the refurbishment works by the end of this summer,” said an ICF source.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Waltair divisional railway manager   said, “We are hopeful that the Vizag-Araku glass-domed train will be operational from the beginning of the next fiscal. We are all sincerely working towards achieving our target and to ensure that tourists are able to enjoy the ride soon.
 
 The railway authorities are also hopeful that the number of tourists travelling to and from Araku will increase from nearly 7,000-8,000 to 10,000 in peak season with the introduction of Vistadome coaches.
 
 The manufacturing cost of a single   is approximately Rs 4-5 crore. Each coach is made with ultra luxurious facilities including rotating chairs to provide the passengers with a 360 degree view through the partial glass ceiling.
 
 The Research, Designs and   and ICF has jointly designed the railway coaches by adopting technical inputs from foreign countries where such coaches are used in tourist trains.
 
 
