SRINAGAR: The government on Friday warned that businesses should pass on the 
  of lower taxes to consumers or face anti-profiteering action provided under the  .

 Revenue secretary   told TOI that the government is doing 
  and the proposed anti-profiteering agency will be asked to keep tabs on price movements. “We have a strategy of requesting trade and industry to kindly pass it down. But if it doesn’t, then in that situation we will have to use the anti-profiteering measures. We will look at the price movement for two-three months before the launch of   to ensure that companies do not take unnecessary advantage and consumers benefit,” he said.
 
 The experience in countries such as Malaysia had prompted the Centre, as well as some of the states, to incorporate an anti-profiteering clause in GST laws, although they insisted that it will not be used frequently. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission is as an agency that ensured that consumers gained.
 
 Finance minister   too suggested that the anti-profiteering clause will be used, wherever needed. While the government is yet to appoint an anti-profiteering body, one of the existing agencies, such as the Competition Commission, could also be tasked with the responsibility.
 
 Adhia said the first attempt would be to get companies on board. “I am requesting all companies to cooperate with us. GST is in their favour, they were asking for it to avoid multiple taxes and cascading effect… Let’s be honest and extend the benefits to consumers.”
 
 While industry is insisting that services such as telecom would get expensive due to 18% GST announced on Friday, the government believes that due to input tax credit, the cost will come down by 3%. “The telecom industry should disclose the benefit in the bill and tax accordingly. Our calculations show that the incidence will remain around 15%.”
 
 Similarly, a section of the white goods industry has claimed that price of ACs and refrigerators will rise by 4-5%, although government calculations show that the incidence will come down to 28% from the current level of 31-32%.
 
 In case of automobiles, the government is of the view that barring small diesel cars, almost all other segments will see a marginal reduction in prices.
 
