Coimbatore: SL Vijaykumar, a retired professional, wanted to stay with his family in a location amidst greenery where air is unpolluted and water is clean, and in the company of like-minded people. While it would have been impossible to find such a place three years ago, several   are coming up in various parts of the district.

 Barren and abandoned agricultural lands have been converted into gated community of farmlands of 20-30 cents each and sold to people like Vijaykumar, who are also looking for amenities like security and maintenance. “I wanted to live in a natural environment and grow my own crops and vegetables like my ancestors once did. I was excited when I found a way to do so,” Vijaykumar told TOI.
 
 Such gated communities are available only in the form of old-age homes or for the elite class, Vijaykumar said. “But even those do not provide the ecological perspective providing a commune life,” he said.
 
 Three friends, GS Kannan, P Senthil Kumar and C Jayakumar ,who have their own farmlands and are into natural farming, wanted to create a similar space for others as well. “When we bought this land, it was barren and filled with thorny bushes. But the place offered a beautiful view of the mountains and had a serene environment. So we decided to divide the land into plots and make them into tiny farmlands that will house more than 20 fruit and flower trees and will also provide a space to cultivate vegetables and fruits,” said G S Kannan, owner of Aspen Green Gardens. 
 
 C Jayakumar said such gated communities of farmlands have only cropped up in the last five years. “Similar places existed only in Bengaluru, Hosur and Kerala,” he said.
 
 Such farmlands have been set up in Pollachi, Kovilpalayam, Anaikatti and Ettimadai in the district. One such plot costs not more than Rs 40 lakh. Each plot has several fruit bearing trees such as mango, papaya, sapota, guava and coconut trees. Drip irrigation is provided and on an annual fee, the entire farmland is maintained by workers. Natural waterways and check dams have also been set up to conserve water and protect the top soil.
 
 V Janarthanan, owner of Coco Nest and the Tree, another such gated community at Kovilpalayam, said, “Three years back, we started this gated community and decided to create a small club for recreation and entertainment as well. Since we had 25 acres, we divided them into 100 plots of 21-25 cents each. Only one house can be set up on this land and the remaining can be used for cultivation,” he said.
 
 
