NEW DELHI: Resident doctors in all public hospitals in Delhi are likely to stay away from work from morning to 4pm on Thursday in protest against increasing assaults on doctors and to show solidarity with their colleagues in Maharashtra, who have been agitating on the same issue.

 The strike call came on a day when resident doctors of AIIMS wore helmets to work in a symbolic act of solidarity with Maharashtra doctors. On Tuesday, they had worn black badges to work.
 
 Widening the stir, the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) later gave a call for mass casual leave across public hospitals in Delhi on Thursday. Only emergency duties will be attended to, it said.
 
 Resident doctors of Delhi hospitals will go on mass leave between 9am to 4pm on Thursday, said FORDA president Pankaj Solanki.
 
 "Only emergency duty schedule of resident doctors will be followed during this time," he said. Dr Solanki said this action is being taken in view assaults on doctors and as a show of support to colleagues from Maharashtra who have been threatened with salary cuts for not joining work.
 
 The resident doctors' associations (RDAs) of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and many other hospitals run by both the Delhi and central government said they had decided to join the strike.
 
 "We do not deserve to be beaten up for doing our job. Hospitals must ensure proper security for doctors and strict action against those who unleash violence," said a doctor at Lok Nayak hospital.
 
 The AIIMS RDA said they had not yet decided to join the strike but would continue to wear helmets to work on Thursday to protest against violence. "We don't want to lose our vision and life as well as our hard earned degrees. Prevention is better than cure," said a doctor, who donned a helmet while seeing patients at AIIMS emergency on Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr Vijay Gurjar, president of AIIMS RDA, said their decision to wear helmets at work proved to be effective. "We wore black badges on Tuesday but no one noticed it. Helmets were noticed by all patients. They asked us the reason and when we told them how our colleagues get beaten up, the patients agreed with our demands. They supported us," Dr Gurjar added.
 
 Nearly 4,000 doctors in Maharashtra have been on strike in various government and municipal hospitals since Monday demanding security at work place in the wake of a string of attacks on their colleagues.
 
 A recent survey involving junior and senior resident doctors from Lok Nayak and G B Pant - hospitals attached to the Maulana Azad Medical College - revealed 41% of them faced violence at work.
 
 The survey showed death of patients and "delay" in treatment were the most common reasons for violence. Some of the relatives, doctors complained, became violent on being told about "lack of medicines". A perception that their patient was getting "inadequate attention" was another trigger for physical or violence violence.
 
 "Ours is a 1200-bedded hospital. There are only eight ICU beds. If there is an accident case and we tell the patient's relatives that a bed with ventilator support isn't available, they get aggressive. This happens almost daily," said Dr Harsh Verma, president of Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital's RDA. Doctors get beaten up for the shortcomings of the administration, he added.
 
