NEW DELHI: A day after an FIR of abetment to suicide was registered in the JNU student death case, Delhi Police has sent a notice to the   administration and the   to join investigation and clarify the allegations of discrimination levelled by J Muthukrishnan’s father.

 Sources confirmed that notices had been served on the JNU registrar, the head of the students welfare board and the head of Centre for Historical Studies in which Muthukrishnan alias Krish Rajni was enrolled as an MPhil scholar.
 
 The roommate of Muthukrishnan, Amritangshu, and a few of his friends have also joined the probe and recorded their statement with the police.
 
 The police are focusing on finding the trigger that prompted Muthukrishnan to take the extreme step. An FIR under sections of abetment (306 IPC) and SC/ST Act has been registered on the basis of his father’s complaint. 
 
 Sources said investigations had pointed towards conversations he had with two friends over the phone on Monday noon, hours before he hung himself. TOI reported on Wednesday that Muthukrishnan had made one call to a female friend around 11.30am. Another call was made around the same time in Hyderabad Central University. Both calls lasted around 15-20 minutes each, sources said. Muthukrishnan’s laptop and mobile phone have been been sent for forensic analysis. 
 
 Sources said Muthukrishnan had told his friend on Monday that he could not sleep till late night and studied till 3am after being upset over something. They suspect that his conversation with someone might have resulted in the depression. Police officers said it was still unclear whether he had an argument with someone. 
 
 They are also scanning through the five Facebook posts in which Muthukrishnan had written a story about him being discriminated while in Salem and in Delhi. Cops have approached a few of his batchmates and friends to verify the allegations.
 
 Family members have told the police that in order to pursue a course in JNU, Muthukrishnan had taken up odd jobs at Salem and was emotionally strong. He was a member of Dalit students association at Hyderabad Central University but never took part in active student politics.
 
 Muthukrishnan was cremated at his home town in Salem on Thursday.
 
 A man allegedly hurled a chappal and a stone at Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan, who had come to pay his last respects to Dalit JNU scholar Muthukrishnan when his mortal remains were brought to his hometown in Tamil Nadu. Police have taken the person into custody. PTI
 
 
