MUMBAI: In a boost for the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), the government will push for a drop in this account-to-account platform’s charges for merchants in the low-value segment. The government has also extended benefits under the referral scheme for the Bhim app to proprietary   apps of banks. Besides,   have been allowed to use the Bhim brand for their own UPI apps to increase usage.

 “The government has liberalised the Bhim referral programme to include all UPI referrals. We have also recommended that incentives to individuals for referrals be hiked from Rs 10 to Rs 25,” said A P Hota, MD & CEO, NPCI. The referral programme, announced in the Union Budget for 2017-18, provides incentives to anyone who can get another individual to activate a UPI ID.
 
 Peer-to-peer (P2P) transfers under UPI are currently free but businesses are charged for receiving payments via this mobile-based system.   and HDFC Bank had proposed to introduced charges on peer-to-peer UPI transactions as well, with effect from June. HDFC Bank had announced a charge of Rs 3 and Rs 5 on transactions of up to Rs 25,000 and higher value remittances, respectively. However, the NPCI asked banks to refrain from imposing charges until an industry-level decision is taken. 
 
 In   transactions, the shopkeeper pays 0.25% on payments of up to Rs 1,000 and 0.65% on transactions above Rs 1,000. Since UPI merchant charges are higher than debit cards in some segments, these are likely to be brought down. Also, SBI’s decision to waive account-to-account transfer (IMPS, or Immediate Payment Service) charges on transfers of up to Rs 1,000 is seen as an indicator that low-value P2P transactions may be kept free.
 
 Under UPI, consumers make or request payments using the counter-party’s UPI ID — an email-like identification which replaces the need for knowing bank account details. The ID is generated by downloading a UPI app from any bank and linking the customer’s bank account. 
 
 The most popular of the UPI apps is Bhim, launched by the NPCI and aggressively promoted by the government. This has resulted in Bhim becoming almost synonymous with UPI. Now the government has allowed banks to tag the Bhim brand with their own apps. Axis Bank has already rechristened its UPI app to Bhim Axis Pay.
 
 According to Hota, there will soon be a massive campaign on digital payments. The campaign will take off once there is a significant number of shops accepting digital payments using the Bharat QR code. Bharat QR enables shops to accept electronic payments from cards or UPI with the customer scanning the QR.
 
 “We expect to end the month with close to 1.4 crore transactions. Merchant transactions, which used to be 10% of UPI, are now more than 20%. Flipkart is already on board and Amazon is at the final stage. IRCTC is already accepting payments through UPI and Uber will launch very soon,” said Hota.
 
 The other change is a drop in transaction charges that merchants have to pay. At present, UPI is more expensive compared to debit cards in low-value transactions. “We are working out lower IMPS Bhim charges for lower amounts. Once the RBI comes out with its new merchant discount rates for cards, we will come out with the new MDR (merchant discount rate) on UPI,” said Hota. He added that new charges would be lower than the 0.65% currently charged.
 
 
