NOIDA: Import-export business, tourism, real estate business and local job-generation are going to be the direct beneficiaries of the   airport. Industry, real estate builders and market researchers see the possibility of an economic growth spurt, but only when the project goes to ground.
 
 Apart from business, the real-estate sector would benefit to a great extent and speculations regarding future price escalations are already being made. “We are expecting a great push for the existing inventory as well as for upcoming projects in the region. Also we do foresee a push of real estate development deeper into the districts, closer to the airport. A price escalation of properties in the region is also speculated once the project takes off. It is great news for the real estate business in the region,” Manoj Gaur, president, Credai, NCR said.
  
 A positive impact is also expected on the export-import based businesses of Noida, Greater Noida. “A lot of international visitors have been avoiding Noida and Greater Noida as they fall off-route. Gurgaon has always had the edge because of its proximity to the airport, and has been supporting brisk business. Now with an international airport in the region, Noida and Greater Noida’s existing export-import businesses would get a major push. It would also make sense to set up such businesses closer to the airport,” Vipin Malhan, president, Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA), said.
  
 The airport could also push of urbanization in the deeper folds of the districts surrounding the upcoming airport is foreseen. A spike in real estate absorption and price escalation is also predicted once the project goes to ground. However, real estate pundits predict an increase only once work commences at the project.
  
 “The Jewar airport announcement has been around for years. Noida and Greater Noida and the Expressway region already has a lot of inventory to absorb. The prices are already optimal. There will definitely be an escalation once the project goes to the ground and investors and home buyers see the project taking shape,” Surabhi Arora, Associate Director, Research, Colliers International, explained.
  
 “The airport is going to fill a major infrastructure gap in the region. Apart from industry, it would also give a major push to the tourism in the region as it will be closer to Agra than the   International Airport. This will bring Agra and   closer to the world, giving a boom to the tourism sector,”  , president Indian Industries Association (IIA), Noida said.
  
 Commenting on its impact on the local economy, Thakur Dhirender Singh, MLA from Jewar said, “With the airport, we expect a lot of multinational companies setting up base in and around Jewar. Uttar Pradesh presently has the mandate of creating 70 lakh jobs. The companies and the ancillary industries which grow around it will lead to the job generation. It will also shift the agrarian economy of rural UP to a skill-based one. In fact the airport will lift UP’s economy as a whole, as well as that of entire north.”
  
 “We expect a huge impact of the airport not just on the economy of the entire airport, but also on the aviation sector as it could lift a lot of pressure off the Indira Gandhi International airport. Tourism and business and the economy at large will see a huge impact,” Mahesh Sharma, Tourism Minister and Gautam Budh Nagar, MP told TOI. Sharma has recently met the Chief Minister of UP, Yogi Adityanath who proposed that the long pending Jewar airport proposal should now be approved.
 
