KAPURTHALA: In a strange turn of events the joy of finding his missing father after two years ended up in a   for Kapurthala’s Bootan village resident Amrik Singh. On way back home from Kanpur, where his missing father had landed in a hospital after a road accident, he first lost his mother, who was accompanying him, to cardiac arrest at the Kanpur railway station. Later, his father was also killed when the ambulance they were bringing his mother’s body in collided with another vehicle near Mathura on the Yamuna Expressway. Amrik himself received some gashes and his tongue was also injured. He now finds it difficult to speak.

 The series of unfortunate events had started last week with a good news. Amrik, working in Hamira distillery, received a message through district police that his father Jaimal Singh was admitted at a hospital in Kanpur. “We received the message on Thursday that our father was in a hospital in Kanpur. Amrik then asked my mother Ajeet Kaur, who was living with me, to accompany him. They left on Friday and reached Kanpur hospital on Saturday. They stayed there for a night planning to take a train back on Sunday evening,” said Amrik’s sister  . She lives in Mansoorwal village.
 
 “We were very happy to see him. We decided to bring him back for further treatment,” Amrik told TOI on Wednesday. At Kanpur railway station, his father was in a wheelchair which he was pushing as her mother walked behind them. “I saw she was walking slowly and then started feeling uneasiness. Soon started feeling breathless and just said ‘Meeke, mein taan gaee’ (Amrik, I am leaving you) and then collapsed. Crowd gathered there to help but she was already dead,” he said.
 
 “Police started questioning as to how had my mother died. A local Sikh resident, who happened to be there, came and helped me. He called other community members and they collectively not only extended moral support, talked to police, but also arranged for a vehicle. They even paid Rs 7,000 as we did not have enough money to hire a private vehicle to reach back home,” he said.
 
 Kulwinder said Amrik called up her at around 1am of Monday and said that they had halted for some time as driver wanted to have a meal. “In the morning at around 5am he called up to say that their vehicle had collided another vehicle and our father was also dead,” she said. The accident had taken place near a small town   at Yamuna Expressway.
 
 Amrik tried to stop passing vehicle but in vain. The driver of his vehicle was also lying injured. Then local police reached there and he again faced questions about his dead mother and showed the documents to the cops.
 
 “He asked us to reach there. He was shattered with both the parents dying so suddenly. We started from here and the administration and police there also arranged for a vehicle for further journey to Punjab. We met near Delhi where we shifted the bodies to our vehicle,” said Kulwinder’s husband Kewal Singh.
 
 They reached their village Bootan on Monday evening. The dead couple was cremated on Tuesday on one pyre.
 
 “Our father had mental health issues and for around 20 years he remained away from home, often going missing. We were hopeful that at least now that our parents will be able to stay together. They did get together but left us,” said Kulwinder, who has six siblings.
 
