KOLHAPUR: The police are yet to make any headway in Wednesday’s attack on the sets of Bollywood director Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s movie ‘Padmavati’ sets at   near Kolhapur.

 Vishwas Nangre Patil, special inspector general, Kolhapur range, told TOI on Thursday that the police have got some clues about the culprits involved in the attack. “We are gathering information about the movement of vehicles on the roads leading to the plateau from Panhala and Kolhapur. We are also checking   footage from hotels, lodges and shops located on these roads,” he said.
 
 The police are also gathering information from youths based in Panhala and neighbouring villages about the attack.
 
 A group of 10-15 masked attackers had torched the base camp of the sets of the movie at the plateau around 1 am on Wednesday and beaten up members of the film crew.
 
 Asked about a report in a Marathi newspaper that the Mumbai unit of the Rajput Karni Sena has claimed responsibility for the attack, Nangre Patil said, “We have got information about this. We will soon conduct an investigation into the claim and take action after confirming the statement.”
 
 As per the report,  , president of the Rajput Karni Sena, Mumbai Pradesh, said members of his organisation in Mumbai, with help from Hindu organisations in Kolhapur, had damaged the sets of the movie at the plateau. “Our activists will not allow the shooting to continue and will teach Bhansali a lesson for the wrong depiction of queen  ,” the newspaper quoted Bhanuja as saying.
 
 However, unfazed by the attack, the film crew is planning to resume the shooting after about 10 days. The teams associated with the shooting were seen taking away the remaining material and costumes from the plateau to an undisclosed location on Thursday. Around 50 horses were also returned to their owners. 
 
 “We are taking the material to a safe place nearby Kolhapur now as a precautionary measure. We will return within 10 days to complete the shooting,” a crew member said.
 
 Around 25 personnel from the Panhala and Kodoli police stations and the Kolhapur police headquarters are guarding the film sets at the plateau. 
 
 Condemning the attack, the Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Chitrapat Mahamandal (ABMCM), which represents the Marathi film industry, said in a statement that it was striving to bring back the glory of film-making to Kolhapur. “Such attacks will impact Kolhapur from emerging as a base for film shooting,” the organisation said.
 
 The ABMCM members are planning to meet chief minister Devendra Fadnavis soon and urge him to provide protection to film units during shootings.
 
 The organisation also said that producers and directors should ensure that their films do not hurt the feelings of any section of society or caste or religion. “If any organisation has objections regarding any film, it can approach us,” the ABMCM said.
 
