NAGPUR: In a first-of-its-kind conservation breeding experiment here, seven-year-old tigress Lee of   is being shifted to   rescue centre to mate with male tiger Sahebrao, which suffers from a limb disability.

 The operations started on Saturday afternoon but were called off in the evening as the tigress refused to enter the cage that was readied for it.
 
 Officials said the operations will resume on Sunday morning. “If it fails again, we will continue on Monday when the zoo will be closed for visitors,” they said.
 
 Of the three tigresses of the zoo which is run by Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV), Akola, Lee was deliberately chosen because of her past familiarity with Sahebrao. “When the tiger was in Maharajbagh zoo, the two believed to have mated twice. Back then, there were assumptions of Lee being pregnant but medical reports turned out to be negative,” sources said.
 
 Divisional manager of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM)   said the experiment will solve two purposes. “This is a good step towards conservation breeding programme and will also take care of the biological requirements. Also, such cubs can play an important element in the Indian Safari at Gorewada,” he added.
 
 The authorities plan to keep Lee in a cage next to Sahebrao’s. “CCTV cameras have been installed and a close watch will be kept on their behaviour,” said wildlife vet Dr Vinod Dhoot, who is also the assistant professor with Wildlife Research and Training Centre.
 
 As per the agreement between authorities of Maharajbagh zoo and Gorewada rescue centre, the tigress is being shifted for mating purpose. “After mating, if the pregnancy reports are positive, the tigress will deliver the cubs at Gorewada only. This decision was taken to avoid disturbance to the tigress as the zoo is constantly visited by public,” officials said.
 
 Founder director of Wild-CER Dr   said the experiment will not only initiate conservation breeding but also help in building-up data regarding breeding behaviour. “The same can be replicated for other endangered species,” he added.
 
 The decision to shift the tigress was taken after much consideration and controversy. In December 2016, PDKV had questioned the forest department’s move to shift one of the three tigresses to Gorewada Rescue Centre. Finally, there was a loan breeding truce between the authorities.
 
 
