NEW DELHI: The Department of Telecommunications ( ) and the   have broadly agreed on relief measures for the debt-laden   sector that may include nearly doubling the deferred payment period for spectrum bought in auctions and reducing the interest burden on companies.
 
  The relief measures could also include allowing spectrum to be used as collateral for loans, a move that was permitted by the Reserve Bank of India in 2012 but opposed by the telecom department.
  
  A relaxation of the 5% universal services obligation fund (USOF) levy could also be on the table.
  
  
  A senior official confirmed that discussions between finance minister   and secretaries of the finance, financial services, economic affairs and telecom departments took place last week at a meeting where solutions for aiding the telecom sector were discussed.
  
  The meeting took up recommendations by an inter-ministerial group ( ) formed by the government to look into the financial health of the sector that has debt of nearly Rs 5 lakh crore, according to the industry. The banking sector pegs this at Rs 7.29 lakh crore.
  
  Extending the payment period to 18 years from 10 years now, both inclusive of a two-year moratorium, could increase cash flows by Rs 55,000 crore, experts said.
  
  Another Rs 20,000 crore could come from moving to a marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) of 8% from the prime lending rate (PLR) of 12%, they said. If the telecom department accepts RBI’s proposal allowing spectrum as collateral, the sector would get yet another lift.
  
  Sources aware of the plan added that telcos’ demands for lowering the goods and services tax (GST) rate from 18% and reducing the spectrum usage charge (SUC) from 5% were also discussed, but the government is unlikely to relent on them.
  
  Carriers, facing immense competitive pressure from new entrant Reliance Jio Infocomm, had also sought higher interconnect usage charges (IUC) — paid by the operator of the network where a call originates to the telco where it terminates. But the IMG is learnt to have said that it will await the telecom regulator’s views. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has been consulting with stakeholders for nearly a year on the matter and its report is expected soon.
  
  The official added that a final decision on the IMG’s recommendations is yet to be taken.
  
  Incumbent  , including Bharti Airtel, Vodafone India and Idea Cellular, had asked the IMG and telecom minister Manoj Sinha, in separate meetings last month, to lower the SUC and the licence fee, and to do away with 5% USOF levy over time. The three also sought higher IUC while proposing a floor rate for voice calls, text messages and data services, all of which was opposed by Jio.
  
  Reducing or scrapping the 5% USOF levy would lower licence fees without impacting government revenue. The levy forms a part of the 8% of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) that telcos pay as licence fee to the government. The telecom regulator had suggested lowering the USOF levy to 3% of AGR as one of the remedies to the IMG.
  
  Telecom minister Sinha had said earlier this month that the government wouldn’t shy away from taking “bold” decisions to help the industry regain its health, adding that the IMG would give its recommendations in 10-15 days.
  
  Banks have raised concerns about defaults with the IMG as well as top government officials.
  
  One instance of default has already occurred involving Reliance Communications, which has managed to get a breather from lenders on repayment conditions until December. The firm is looking to pare its nearly Rs 45,000-crore debt through the sale of assets.
  
  Telecom companies have blamed their financial woes on the impact of Jio’s entry and its promotional offers. Jio has said it’s the result of aggressive bidding at spectrum auctions and lack of investment in new technologies.
  
  DoT had flagged the failing health and falling revenues of telcos in communications with the sector regulator, blaming free offers by the new entrant. The department recently asked the finance ministry to cut revenue estimates from the debt-laden sector by 37% to Rs 29,524 crore for the current financial year.
  
  Licence fee collection from telecom services dropped 9% to Rs 3,361 crore in the March quarter from the preceding one, while AGR has dropped 11% to Rs 40,831 crore in the same period, as per Trai data.
