AGRA: In a daring rescue operation by the   team a 12-foot-long Indian Rock   weighing nearly 22 kilograms was rescued from   village in Agra. After careful examination the python was deemed fit and released back in to its natural habitat. It turned out to be quite a shocking morning for the occupants of Sadoopura village when they spotted a giant python wandering along the side of a busy road. Left in a state of panic, a concerned local immediately reported the incident to the police who in turn contacted Wildlife SOS on their 24-hour helpline number requesting for help.

 The organisation’s team, comprising of three expert snake rescuers was promptly dispatched to the location. After ensuring that the villagers were at a safe distance from the nearly twelve foot long constrictor, they managed to successfully carry out the rescue operation. It took almost 40 minutes for the rescuers to catch hold of the distressed reptile.
 
 Dheeraj Tiwari, the caller, said, “The presence of large reptile on the busy road created panic and fear amongst commuters and residents. The Wildlife SOS rescue team was efficient in rescuing the large reptile with ease and care”. The Indian Rock Python is protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. This particular species is under the ever increasing threat of habitat loss, poaching and is a sought after species in the illegal pet trade.
 
 BaijuRaj MV, director conservation projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “The python weighed nearly 22 kilograms and was kept under observation for a few hours before we released back in to its natural habitat Because of continuous deforestation and expansion of human habitation these largely misunderstood reptiles often become victims of man-animal conflict situations.”.
 
 Geeta Seshamani, co-founder, Wildlife SOS, said, “We are glad that instead of taking matters into their own hands, the incident was immediately reported to the authorities. Often the plight of urban wildlife is dismissed because people consider them to be a nuisance and they are often met with hostility. Wildlife SOS works towards changing this attitude and sensitizing the public to the presence of urban wildlife.”
 
