BENGALURU: Over a month after the   conducted a trial run on St Mark's Road, the smart parking project is yet to be a reality on the   (CBD) thoroughfare. Reason -the   is yet to finalize the implementing agency.

 Two companies,   ( ) and Civic Smart, had been shortlisted to implement the project, but the BBMP is yet to pick one. Officials say they have their hands full as they are busy addressing rain-related problems. "Right now, dealing with storm water drains and potholes is our priority," said a senior officer.
 
 The automated parking system will allow motorists and bikers to find parking space via a mobile application and park vehicles using smart cards. The facility is to be extended to 84 other roads in a phased manner.
 
 Amal Raj from CPS, which has been into smart parking for 10-12 years, said they are awaiting a response from the BBMP. "The civic body has to finalize the bidder," he added.
 
 A senior official from BBMP's road infrastructure wing said the system was tested as a proof of concept on St Mark's Road and Richmond Road, and fetched a positive response. "We will finalize the firm in a week or two," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Under the system, parking fee will be fixed on an hourly basis and fares will vary depending on the road category .The 85 roads identified for the project have been classified into three groups. Category A comprises premium roads like MG Road, where parking rates will be high. Apart from CBD roads, premium parking spots will be available in commercial hubs too. A total of 43 roads fall under Category B (normal roads) and 25 under Category C.
 
 With parking fee not being regularized at present, citizens often end up being fleeced by unauthorized persons.The smart parking system aims to change this.
 
 
 
 
 It's a pity that the smart parking project for the Central Business District hasn't taken off. While the BBMP claims it has been preoccupied with the devastating rain and the pothole problem, it's a sad comment on the civic body's inability to execute a good idea. The city desperately needs parking solutions and motorists need to be freed from the tyranny of the unauthorised mafia which virtually controls parking space in many areas. The smart parking idea should have been put in place and debugged quickly so that it can be implemented across the city.
 
