KOCHI: The Travancore devaswom board (TDB) secretary has approached the high court challenging devaswom   Kadakampally Surendran’s directive to   president to keep the secretary away from the post and conduct a probe into allegations of irregularities.

 The  , VS Jayakumar of Tutors Lane at Statue in Thiruvananthapuram, contends that TDB is an autonomous body and that the government or any authority, except the court, has no supervisory or other jurisdiction over it. The direction of the minister to the president is bad in law, it is claimed. Jayakumar, who joined the devaswom department as a lower division clerk in 1981, had recently been recommended to be appointed as TDB commissioner.
 
 Through the petition, Jayakumar has alleged that the letter issued by the minister on May 11 has no basis. The minister’s letter assumes that there are cases pending against him whereas only quick verification and investigation on the basis of “false complaints” are pending, which cannot be considered as pending vigilance cases, the petition said.
 
 In the letter issued to the TDB president, the minister had stated that the secretary is said to be involved in the recent complaints and news regarding irregularities at TDB. The letter also said an inspection by the local fund audit wing found irregularities involving crores of rupees with regard to buying vessels at Sabarimala during the Makaravilakku season of 2013.
 
 In addition to this, there were complaints of irregularities against the present secretary when he was the administrative officer at Pamba and in computerization of temples under TDB, the minister’s letter revealed, while adding that these allegations have dented the image of TDB and the devaswom department.
 
 Jayakumar, who is alleged to have a role in these irregularities, should not continue in the post of secretary as this may lead to a situation where evidence and files regarding these alleged irregularities may be destroyed, the minister’s letter said. It is unfortunate to know that an order is said to have been issued appointing Jayakumar as TDB commissioner, the minister had said in the letter. 
 
