While for majority of revellers   is associated with colours, fanfare and family get-together, for some, especially women, it hasn’t been all that colourful of an experience, as incidents of harassment, physical abuse, molestation and misdemeanor have faded the joy of celebrating the festival of colour for them. To ensure that women can celebrate Holi in a safer environment, Holi bashes in the city today are equipped with special security arrangements to avoid any untoward incidents. We find out more on this security aspect…

 
 
 Last year, quite a few cases were reported in the city during Holi wherein women were groped in public by miscreants who used Holi as an excuse to execute their nefarious designs. This year however, it will hopefully be a different scenario as party organisers are going extra mile to beef up their security. Event planner Priyanka Kothari says, “We have hired 45   with licenced guns who will watch every move of celebrants at our venue. Out of fear at least, people will be in their limits. Also this year, we are going organic and not using any chemical colours at the celebration. We are certain that these beefed up security arrangements will help us provide our guests a safe environment to celebrate Holi.” 
 
 
 
 Some of the organisers have made a special list of dos and don’ts. Speaking about the same, one of the hosts of a Holi bash Vinit Naik says, “We have distributed 200 leaflets at our area wherein we have categorically mentioned that no one should smear colours on any girl forcefully, without her permission. Quite a few women in our residential area don’t participate in Holi celebration out of fear. To keep all their inhibitions at bay, there will be   as well at the Holi party. We will be putting up a flex with a list of dos and don’ts at the party so that the over enthusiastic revellers should know where to draw the line. We have put the security aspect on top of our priority list. Besides, there will be no dearth of entertainment at the do.”
 
 
 
 There are quite a few bashes in the city wherein extra CCTV cameras have been installed to monitor every move of the guests and ensure that the festival can be celebrated peacefully. Organiser Sahil Deo says, “Last year, some youngsters got drunk and created ruckus at our venue and this year we don’t want any such incident to spoil the fun for us. We have installed 25 CCTV cameras at our venue and have invited limited guests who have been given an entry card. We have also banned water balloons and water guns at the party and also any form of chemical colours to avoid any kind of nuisance.”
 
