PUNE: The hyacinth menace has come back to haunt  . 

 Hyacinths have spread over a chunk of the lake in the past few months, ringing alarm bells among environmentally-conscious locals of the area, who fear a loss of the water body’s  . 
 
 Locals and bird watchers who frequent the lake have highlighted the rapid growth of hyacinths despite a massive clean-up operation undertaken by the Pune Municipal Corporation during last monsoon. Some locals have now complained about the issue to the civic body. 
 
 Shantanu Roy, a resident of the area, said, “Pashan lake is one of only two such water bodies of the city and concerted steps are needed to preserve it. I have been visiting the lake regularly for the past three years and the recent hyacinth growth is shocking. It’s unfortunate that people visiting the lake casually toss garbage, including plastic, into it.”
 
 Considered a nuisance globally, hyacinths degrade the water body’s quality by blocking photosynthesis, besides penetration of sunlight. This reduces oxygen levels in the water, thus endangering fish and underwater plants.   also reduces biological diversity, impacts native submersed plants, alters immersed plant communities by pushing away and crushing them, and also alters animal communities by blocking access to the water and/or eliminating plants that the animals depend on for shelter and nesting.
 
 The situation is still not beyond repair, said ornithologist Satish Pandey, who also advocates a regular clean-up of the water body. “Hyacinth has the capacity to destroy a lake’s ecology but its regular removal can prevent it from returning in a mass. The removed hyacinth needs to be destroyed completely. Lots of local and migratory birds, including the Lesser Flamingo, still flock to Pashan lake every year. As responsible citizens, it is our duty to ensure its survival. Anyway, abundant rainfall this year may have caused a lot of water to stagnate, besides the larger problem of sewage discharge into the lake,” he said.
 
 PMC officials have assured immediate attention to the problem. Medical officer Kalpana Baliwant said, “We have deployed a team of 10-12 people who are removing the hyacinth manually. It will take four to five days to complete the process”.
 
 Environment officer Mangesh Dighe also admitted to the recurring problem and said, “Pashan lake is important from the point of ecology, especially for migratory birds that visit the lake every year. Hyacinth grows fast in winter and its removal is an ongoing activity. We cannot deploy motorboats to speed up its cleaning as that could endanger the lake’s biodiversity,” he said. 
 
 City-based environmentalist Anirudh Chaoji suggests finding a commercial value for the hyacinth. “Studies done in Sangli a few years ago had revealed hyacinth’s effectiveness in treatment of dairy waste-water from small-scale dairies to make it safe for disposal into public sewers. Taking this up as a commercial project can provide multiple benefits for the city,” he said.
 
 
