HYDERABAD:   in the city were pulled up by the   on Monday for their casual approach and ignoring the direction of the court in explaining their stand on a public interest litigation ( ) accusing them of fleecing patients as well as using questionable methods. A furious court gave these hospitals two weeks to respond.

 “If you continue to display this attitude, then we will presume that you have nothing to say to defend yourselves,“ a bench of Justice V Ramasubramanian and Justice J Uma Devi said while hearing a PIL by Kazipeta Narender, a journalist from Balanagar in the city, seeking a   into the alleged misdeeds of private hospitals and the `conniving' `complacent' roles of the state machinery in allowing its exchequer to be plundered by these unscrupulous private players in the name of central government  , Aarogyasri etc. 
 
 The High Court had earlier given notices to all the respondent hospitals and sought their replies on the contentions raised in the petition. But when the bench resumed its hearing on Monday , it noticed that none of the hospitals had filed their counters. It then gave an ultimatum that if they did not respond within two weeks from now, it would adjudicate the matter on the presumption that they had nothing to say . The states of AP and Te langana were also given notices earlier and their government pleaders too were present in the court. The bench remarked that generally governments delayed filing counters and private parties would be prompt in filing counters, but here it was a strange case of private parties dodging the case.
 
 The petitioner also presented inquiry reports of AP vigilance department that spoke of huge corruption. The vigilance wing had charged private hospitals with avoiding free treatment to poor patients though they were under an obligation to provide such treatment to a number of poor people equivalent to at least five per cent of their total in-patients and 10 per cent of their out-patients. “These hospitals are resorting to manipulation of records and showing on paper that they are providing such treatment to white ration card holders,“ the petitioner said.
 
 The petitioner also brought to the notice of the court the anguish expressed by governor E S L Narasimhan on various occasions on the exploitative methods of these corporate hospitals. Citing incidents of state complacency , the petitioner urged the court to entrust the matter to CBI.
 
