He is admittedly lazy, occasionally grumpy and body-wise borders on what can be termed as fat. But hey, don’t judge us on that last bit — that is exactly how our man described himself, sitting comfortably in his cosy Jubilee Hills hotel room. In fact, it’s 
body-shaming that helped this alumnus from  , Bengaluru, create music that earned his band recognition across the country. He, in turn, honoured the fact by naming his band ‘All The Fat Children’. Surprised? Well, we too were, until  , the frontman of the three-piece ensemble, got talking about all that and more. 
 “When we started off, sometime in 2008, we all were chubby kids. Most of our initial material came from the fact that we overweight. I, personally, was very insecure about my body-shape,” says the Malayali boy, who has now made Bengaluru his home. 
 
 
 Initially, the band’s music dwelled on the dark undertones of alternative rock and Eben calls it “more like emo.” The battle, he says, was there and the name of the band was a conscious decision to fight it. “With the name, we were saying out loud, ‘that’s what we are’, ‘we are the fat people’. Everybody has their demons and we all fight them our own way. The band’s name probably was our way of going about it,” he says. One of their hit singles,  , delves on the issue, but as Eben says, “That song is more about positivity on the face of fat insecurities.”
 When he went to the UK to pursue post-graduation in Events and Conference Management, the band took a break for at least two years. “It was sometime around 2012. When I came back I decided to look at the brighter side of life and started working out like mad. In fact, from being about 130kg, I came down to 71. It was then that our music shifted gears and started leaning more towards positivity,” Eben avers, adding that that was when he wrote I Can Fly, one of their originals, while running on a treadmill for half an hour daily. 
 
 
 
 Though the boys matured over time and learnt to fight their demons, most notably obesity, All The Fat Children’s troubles were far from over. When Eben returned to India and was raring to go with the band, an accident occurred and that posed a question mark on the band’s future. “It was around eight to nine months since I had returned to India and was gigging around when I met with a bad car accident that left my collar bones fractured. So, we didn’t gig for at least a year after that. In our nine-year existence, we were probably inactive for close to three to four years and that’s a big gap, you see,” the Dumb Dumb vocalist recalls. 
 
 
 
 In the meantime, our photographer arrived and requested the vocalist for a few pictures. His laziness probably got the better of him, but whatever was the reason, he refused saying he isn’t “picture-ready” and politely asked us to click him when he’d be on stage. At first we didn’t understand why Eben preferred to be clicked “only” on stage but that doubt vanished as we saw him on the stage a few hours later, dressed in a floral nightie —yes, a nightie! — with lipstick and a bindi to compliment it! 
 “It’s a rebellion of sorts. I am an attention seeker. You can say whatever you want, but it has a lot to do with, again, the whole body-shaming episode. I don’t consider myself a musician at all. I sometimes think of myself as a clown on stage. But I am the happiest when I am on stage playing music,” he says.
 
 
 
 Eben’s outspoken antics, especially on stage seem to have invited trouble for   more than once. So much so that they have even received death threats and been asked not perform at specific venues. Reminiscing such an incident in Karnataka, the vocalist says, “We were playing in some college in   and around 100 to 200 students had a problem with us singing a Malayalam song. The cops had to resort to lathi charge to drive out the drunkards. Later, we were whisked away in cars with tinted glasses and we saw people line up on the road holding the state’s flag and shouting ‘kill them’ in Kannada. It was scary then, but now when we think about it, it’s funny,” he say, adding that the motto of their music is to give something to the audience that they can take back home. 
 
