NAGPUR: Beginning his speech with a famous quote on the principle of statistics,   (NU) Vice Chancellor SP Kane on Saturday said that reports published in newspapers are generally “wrong and media is fooling the people”. 

 Addressing NU students during the conference on ‘Free Speech And Democracy In   Milieu’ at the department of mass communication, Kane said he wasn’t competent to talk on the subject but can explain the impact of media as he was affected by the media.
 
 Kane’s admission on media affecting his work emanates from the fact that NU has always been in the news for all wrong reasons. 
 
 “There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics. It means in statistics I can prove and disapprove with same figures and facts. A hypotheses can be proved right and wrong. Similarly, media can fool people because people don’t have the knowledge about what is being reported. 99% times, news I read about the University is not correct. Why is it so,” he asked.
 
 However, there is no end to issues related to illegal appointments, scams, controversies, exam related goof-ups in NU that have been reported by the media. Over the years, TOI has been exposing the NU on several fronts like Wakataka coins case, Chunodkar-Handa case, scholarship scam, appointments of Pro Vice Chancellor Pramod Yeole, information scientist Veena Prakashe and finance and accounts officer Raju Hiwase etc. In addition, delayed revaluation, answer sheet swapping and harassment over getting degrees too are regular NU phenomenon. 
 
 In Nov, 2016, TOI had also reported about an   plea by   revealed over 367 court cases were pending against NU.
 
 Ved Prakash Mishra, former member of all statutory bodies in NU for three decades, said, “It is too bold a statement for a public servant within the scope of Section 23 of Maharashtra Public Universities Act 1994. Any claim must be substantiated with facts and figures.” 
 
 Senior academician Rajendra Bhoyar, who has held several posts in NU statutory bodies from 1990 to 2010, attributed the speaking out of turn culture as the reason for “miscommunication”. 
 
 “Any news of university must be communicated by the VC only. At NU, everyone has become a spokesperson. Everyday Pro-VC, Registrar, and BCUD director are being quoted and making announcements more often than the VC,” he said.
 
 Bhoyar added that in fact the NU officials are not aware of the Univesity Act referring to implementation of semester pattern in BA part 1, part 2 and part 3 in one go.
 
 RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar said the VC must prove that the media is wrong. “If the university had acted, problems would have got solved. My son’s degree was unnecessarily held back and I had to file an RTI in chancellor’s office to get it. Then many filed court cases to get degrees. It if absolutely wrong to say media is misreporting.”
 
 Hotelier Tejinder Singh Renu feels there are many issues which go unreported because individuals give up. “Not all issues are being reported in media. Only a couple of newspapers dare to write about the university.”
 
 At the end of his nearly an-hour long speech, Kane said the case could be the same with any other department like the municipal corporation. 
 
 
