GUWAHATI: Flood-ravaged Bordubatop village in Morigaon, nearly 58 km from here, is staring at a new crisis: shortage of drinking water. Seven-year-old Farhan and his elder sister Gul have to wake up early in the morning and trek almost half a mile to reach the nearest hand pump to fetch drinking water. Their dwelling unit, a thatched house, was damaged in the floods that swept the state recently. But now that the water has receded, there's no drinking water. 

 "We have to make at least four rounds to the hand pump daily. Everyone in the family needs water to drink and cook. We also have a well but the flood waters have brought in a lot of silk and the well water is not safe for drinking or cooking any more," said Farhan before running for another round.
 
 "Besides Morigaon, Dhemaji, Lakkhimpur, Barpeta, Bongaigaon, Dhubri, Nagaon, Dibrugarh and Hailakandi districts are facing severe  ," sources in the   (ASDMA) said. The unprecedented floods have left most of the water sources contaminated. 
 
 Aware of the possibility of a major drinking water crisis, the state government had included installing of tube wells and distributing of water packets in its relief and rehabilitation drive. Sources said nearly 1,115 tube wells were distributed to the affected.
 
 "At least 76,135 packets of drinking water, with each pack containing about 200 ml, were distributed in Barpeta, Dibrugarh, Hailakandi and Kamrup (metro) districts," the   report on Monday said. Several NGOs and volunteer groups also distributed drinking water packets.
 
 Hiten Gogoi, a farmer from Lakhimpur's Nowboicha area, hit out at the Prime Minister in anger. "He should visit us and do something for the people instead of shedding crocodile tears on social networking sites," he said, adding that in 2014, three children died of cholera. "Water-borne diseases are looming large over the state," he said. 
 
 Health department sources confirmed receiving reports of people suffering from diarrhoea, dysentery, fever and severe skin infection in the relief camps of Lakhimpur. In Dhubri district, about 176 typhoid cases were reported last week.
 
 With one more death in Morigaon district on Monday, the flood toll reached 83. The Dhansiri continued to flow over the danger level in Golaghat district.
 
 Around 4,670 people are still struggling in Lakhimpur and Jorhat districts, while 366 have taken shelter in relief camps. Nearly 2.09 lakh hectare of cropland was ravaged.
 
 
