BENGALURU: Yerrami, wife of   who was among the three men who   in a manhole in   on Monday midnight, said her husband had called her hours earlier, saying he'd visit her by Saturday and also bring Rs 5,000. 

 With six-year-old son Manikanta and three-year-old Divya by her side, a woebegone Yerrami sat near the Bowring Hospital mortuary. "His contractor was irregular with payments. Sometimes, my husband would get Rs 10,000 for 15 days' work or just Rs 2,000 per week. Despite all his hard work, he never got paid regularly," she said.
 
  Yerrami said it was police who broke the news to her on Tuesday. "We are not used to police formalities. Since the time I heard about my husband's demise, I haven't had a morsel of food," said Yerrami, who along with other family members travelled almost 1,150km from Srikakulam in   by bus to reach Bengaluru on Wednesday afternoon. 
 
 Later, family members of Anjaneya Reddy and Davita Naidu, the two other deceased, also arrived at the mortuary.
 
 A city-based software engineer helped the families complete the formalities at Bowring Hospital. Maheshwar Rao, a techie with TCS, said his uncle Appa Naidu, a government schoolteacher, called him saying he should help these families. "I have taken a day's leave to help them out. My uncle lives near Palavalsa village, from where Yeraiah and Davita belong. I'm communicating with the bereaved family members and guiding them on how to reach Byappanahalli police station and Bowring Hospital mortuary," he said.
 
  'Getting threat calls' Meanwhile, one of the victims' family members told TOI that they have been getting threat calls, saying they shouldn't file any police complaint against the contractors. 
 
 "We are getting continuous calls saying if we opt for legal action, we shall not get even a rupee from the Rs 10 lakh compensation that the government ha announced. The callers say we could face a lot of problems," said the family members, quoting the callers, who introduced themselves as 'company officials'.
 
 
