THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a path-breaking move,   centres here are focussed on the next commercial launch of a record 104 satellites at one go on board its Polar   Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C37) from Sriharikota by Feb 15. It will be followed by the launch of the South Asian satellite in March this year, which is pegged as the Prime Minister’s pet project.

 Scientists at the   (VSSC), Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) and ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU) here maintain that launching the maximum number of satellites will be a technological feat. In the payload of 104 satellites, 101 will be foreign satellites including the latest addition of a nano-satellite. Remaining three will be Indian satellites including the Cartosat series-2D with remote sensing high resolution camera which finds its application in defence and strategic purposes.
 
  “Target of PSLV-C37 to launch the maximum number of satellites, tentatively on Feb 15 is not for creating a record or publicity, it is aimed at cutting the costs down. More the number of satellites launched in one mission, lesser the cost incurred. It benefits the user and is technologically a better choice,” VSSC director K Sivan told TOI. Next will the South Asian satellite planned for launch in March this year, he said.
 
 Till now, ISRO has launched the maximum 20 satellites at one go and it was on board PSLV-C34 on June 22 last year. While, Russia has launched a record 37 satellites in a single mission in 2014 and the US space agency   had launched 29 satellites at one go. 
 
 In January last week, ISRO had planned for the launch of 83 satellites including 80 foreign satellites. But, with additional foreign satellites, the launch of 104 satellites including 101 foreign satellites is planned for mid-Feb, LPSC director S Somnath told TOI.
 
 “Of the 104 satellites, majority are small satellites. Novelty in the launch of many satellites is the algorithm developed with high precision number calibration to prevent any collision of the satellites during launch,” Somnath said.
 
 Proposed by the Prime Minister in November 2014 as a gift to the neighbouring countries, the South Asian satellite previously known as   satellite project for geo-spatial, communication and telemedicine applications is planned for launch on board GSLV-Mark II in March. Last year, Pakistan opted out of the project. Apart from India, the satellite will benefit Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan.
 
 After the South Asian Satellite, the next launch lined up in April is the GSLV-Mark III to place the indigenous communication satellite GSAT-19 in orbit. More PSLV launches are planned this year, at the rate of two in a month, the scientists said.
 
 
 
 
