THANE: After six long weeks of an  , students of Kendriya Vidyalaya’s class I to V will resume their studies at a building in the Naval area of the Air Force Station on Tuesday. 

 After the school building in   was declared to be dilapidated by the Military Engineer Services earlier this year, the school authorities had stopped classes for all their students as a preventive measure late August this year. This move caused panic among the 1,400 school students and their parents, as the school had shut the school indefinitely and there was no alternate building to shift the students to.
 
 As the parents of the students came together and pressurised the school to start looking for new premises within the city whilst making some temporary arrangement to ensure their children didn’t miss out on their classes, the school authorities resumed classes for students of class X and XII at the Air Force School within the air force station a week later.
 
 Classes for students from class IX and XI also resumed a few days later on September 4 at the Air Force School and an extra room in the school premises respectively, while the schooling of class VI, VII and VIII resumed on September 22 at the Air Force School and the school premises respectively.
 
 “We are doing everything to ensure that the students do not miss out on their classes and remain safe at the same time. We will be resuming all classes by Tuesday in batches in the classes provided to us by the Air Force officials. We have cancelled the coming exams and cut short the vacation to make up for the time lost,” said a   official. 
 
 However, while the classes of all the students will be taken in batches starting Tuesday, their parents are worried about the completion of their curriculum as the students spend hardly three to four hours in school.
 
 “Even though the school has resumed, our children have only three to four hours of school daily. How will they arrange to ensure that the the curriculum will be covered with these hours? Every school should have a minimum of five-and-half hours of classes according to the law. While we are glad that the classes have resumed, we hope the school is looking for some permanent solution as well,” said a parent of a class XII student.
 
 
