In 1981, when India's space scientists grappled with the challenge of finding a metal-free transportable platform for a new satellite, they trusted a creaking old bullock cart. That bullock cart has long since been replaced by a state-of-the-art satellite transportation system (STS). But this high-tech carrier still relies on two humans to ferry the super-valuable cargo.

 Jagadish S and M Suresh are no ordinary drivers. The duo, both in their 40s, are trained to carry   or spacecraft to   (SDSC) or   rocket launch centre in   from the Bengaluru satellite centre. The distance from Bengaluru to Andhra is 380km, which normally takes just about seven hours. But for an   convoy, it takes over a day to complete the road mission.
 
 
 
 
 Before the journey of Isro's trusted trailer (KA 03 6806) starts, the entire route is mapped. For example, for transporting the 1,350-kg Mars Orbiter Mission spacecraft on October 2, 2013, Jagadish and Suresh first went on a road recce.
 
 They noted down everything meticulously -from the number of speed-breakers to dangling wires and potholes. If a road on the route did not meet standards, authorities were intimated and repair work done on priority.
 
 
 
 To ensure that no harm came to the spacecraft's complex wiring and electronic system, all electricity wires on the route were marked and electricity boards told to cut off power supply when the convoy passed through.
 
 
 
 Even small vibrations could cause problems, so the speed limit of the trailer was maintained at 25 kmph. Slow, sure and safe was the mantra. Drivers took turns to drive the vehicle because the low-speed journey was very tiring.
 
 
 
 Nothing's left to chance. From mechanics for the vehicle to CISF personnel, intelligence officials, local police, scientists, technicians, everybody's either behind or ahead of the vehicle.
 
 
 
 On Nov 21, 1963, rocket parts were carried by scientists on bicycles to a remote church in Kerala's Thumba that was turned into a launchpad from where India's first sounding rocket was successfully launched.
 
 
