BATHINDA: Three passengers died and over 25 passengers   late on Saturday evening when an air conditioned bus of   caught fire at   town of Bathinda. The bus was going from Bathinda to Ludhiana and was carrying around 45 passengers.

 The victims were badly burnt and could not be recognised. The cause of the fire could not be known immediately. Sources said the fire broke out due to some problem in the air conditioning system of the bus. Police have ruled out any foul play. 
 
 A road overbridge (ROB) is being constructed at the place where the bus caught fire, Owing to the accident, traffic had to move at a snail’s pace. The bus was at slow speed and some of the passengers ran for cover after being pulled out.
 
 As per eyewitnesses, the fire broke out in the bus at 7.30 pm near the railway crossing of Rampura. It started from the rear side of the bus and spread to the front side. This led to a commotion. Forty passengers were somehow pulled out of the bus but three were charred to death. The bus doors were being operated through a mechanical system. They further said that the fire broke out from the rear portion of bus and it kept on moving for some distance while on fire. The driver of the bus jumped out. As the doors were mechanically operated these could not be opened immediately and people were pulled out by breaking open the window panes.
 
 Prince of Rampura, Surjit Singh and Kulwant working with PRTC at Rampura sustained injuries while saving passengers of the ill-fated bus. Rayia Transport Company’ Rampura incharge   said that, “It seems to be some mechanical fault but we are investigating.” 
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said that, “During the initial investigations it has become clear that there is no foul play and the bus caught fire from the air conditioning system. Three have died and over 20 are injured. Police is investigating the incident and the injured have been admitted to a hospital.” Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra said that, “A magisterial inquiry has been marked to Rampura SDM and he will give the report in two days.” 
 
 
