BENGALURU: Prime Minister   on Sunday took a veiled dig at those opposing demonetization saying and said they were political worshippers of graft and black money which had adversely impacted the economy and polity.

 “It is unfortunate that some political worshippers (rajnaitik pujaris) of black money are calling our efforts anti-people,“ the PM said in his address at the 14th   Divas in Bengaluru. Modi said his fight against corruption and black money is gradually making the polity , society and administration hollow. “You might have noticed and heard that we have taken up a big fight against black money . Black money and corruption are making our polity, society and administration hollow gradually,“ he said.
 
 Praised NRIs and PIOs for their response to demonetization, Modi said, “It has been an overwhelming response from you all and I thank you for that.“ Modi had extended the dates for converting the old PIO cards to OCI ( ) cards without any penalty only till June 30. In his speech earlier, CM Siddaramaiah said, “On January 6, the GOPIO had resolved in my presence to urge the Union government to extend the dates to exchange old notes till December 31, 2017. I would request the same from you.“ Justifying his decision, Modi said, “We had appealed to NRIs and PIOs to convert their PIO card to OCI card but many were too busy in their lives. As a result we have extended the dates for these conversions till June 30, with out penalty,“ The PM also spoke of easing the problems for PIOs in obtaining the OCI cards in Girmitiya nations. Starting from Mauritius, he said a new set of procedures & documentations will be set for procuring OCI cards in Girmitiya nations.
 
 Special immigration counters at B'luru, Delhi airports Modi
 
 announced that all airports in the country will have special immigration counters for NRIs and PIOs. The first of these counters will be set up at IGI Airport in Delhi and Bengaluru's KIA.
 
 Vajra scheme
 
 Modi also spoke of a scheme to convert the brain drain to brain gain. The scheme called Vajra or the   will contribute to the nation's growth in science and technology .
 
 `SAFETY OF INDIANS ABROAD TOP PRIORITY'
 
 Wooing the NRIs and People of Indian origin (PIO) at the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas here on Sunday, the PM said, “Hum passport ka colour nahi dekthe hain, khoon ka rishta hai.“
 
 Modi was emphatic in saying that the security and safety of all Indians across world is the top priority of the Indian government, adding that directions have been issued to all Indian embassies to be proactive in addressing the problems of Indian nationals.
 
 “For every Indian national living abroad, home should never be away.Welfare and safety of Indian nationals is our top priority. We are strengthening our entire ecosystem to address issues such as loss of passports, legal aid, shelter and transportation of mortal remains to India.“ The PM said Indian missions across the world have been directed to give thrust to accessibility, sensitivity, speed and promptness in reaching out to Indians in distress. “Convey the message that we are there for you when you need us,“ he said.
 
 Modi said, “In the last two years, 19,000 Indian nationals from 54 countries have been repatriated. A total of 90,000 Indians in contingency situations were helped.“ 
 
 MODI HOLDS TALKS WITH REPS OF FRANCE, MALAYSIA, SURINAME
 
 As part of India's efforts to build a consensus on the need to adopt the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT), PM Narendra Modi held bilateral talks with representatives of three countries ­ France, Suriname and Malaysia.
 
 Foreign minister of France Jean-Marc Ayrault concurred with Modi on the need to urgency in adopting the CCIT. MEA spokesperson Vikas Swarup said, “France has come out in support of adopting the CCIT. Both India and France have been at the receiving end of terrorist at tacks. CCIT provides a legal framework. This entails denying funds and safe havens to terrorist groups.“ Ayrault, who is visiting India for the first time, appreciated India's ratification of the Paris COP21 agreement. In a lighter vein, Ayrault said, “After signing the deal on Rafale fighter jets, we hope the strategic defence ties with India take off with the speed of the Rafale.“
 
 Suriname vice-president Michael Ashwin Adhin sought India's assistance to develop Ayurveda in his country. Modi asked Malaysian PM Najeeb Razak to visit India again.
 
