BENGALURU: A year before assembly election, the Congress government is finally showing some urgency in appointing a Lokayukta. Once a model anti-corruption agency for the rest of the country, Karnataka   has remained headless since the ignominious exit of former Lokayukta Justice Y Bhaskar Rao in December 2015.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah has now initiated a fresh move by calling a high-level meeting of the collegium on January 9 to select a Lokayukta for the state. This is after two of his previous attempts to appoint Justice S R Nayak for the post failed. Nayak is presently the chairman of the  .
 
 The collegium headed by the CM includes Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court S K Mukherjee, Speaker K B Koliwad, legislative council chairman D H Shankaramurthy, leaders of the Opposition in both Houses, Jagadish Shettar and K S Eshwarappa, as its members.
 
 “We got an intimation for the meeting, but not the probable list. The government is deliberately doing this to keep us in the dark; we are hoping it won’t be a repeat of the last two meetings,” said Shettar.
 
 The creation of the   (ACB) in March last year had led to unrest in Karnataka, particularly among anti-corruption crusaders and opposition leaders who alleged that the government was killing the historical institution which brought down many high and mighty, including several ministers and CM over charges of corruption. While the Lokayukta is an autonomous body, officers of the ACB report to the Karnataka state chief secretary.
 
 Previously, Karnataka Lokayukta functioned under the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984, and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 through its police wing. But through an order last year, the government limited its powers under the Karnataka Lokayukta Act and created a new wing (ACB) to deal with cases pertaining to the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.
 
 However, with the new ACB in place, the suo motu investigation powers of the Lokayukta have been snatched. The ACB will investigate cases recommended by the Lokayukta on the basis of complaints filed by citizens against specific government servants.
 
 The image of the anti-corruption agency took a beating during Justice Rao’s tenure, following reports of alleged corruption and extortions in its office.
 
 Justice Vishwanath Shetty the frontrunner
 
 Former high court judge Justice P Vishwanath Shetty is expected to be the frontrunner. Also in the fray is former Karnataka chief justice D H Waghela.
 
 In May 2016, governor   had rejected the state government’s recommendation to appoint Justice S R Nayak as the new Lokayukta. Justice Nayak’s name could figure again in the list, but it’s unlikely that he’d be picked for the post. 
 
 In the previous two meetings of the high-level committee, Shettar and Eshwarappa had suggested the name of retired Supreme Court judge Vikramjit Sen to head the anti-corruption agency, while Siddaramaiah and the then Speaker Kagodu Thimmappa had proposed Justice Nayak’s name. Notwithstanding a 4-2 vote in favour of Justice Sen, Siddaramaiah had recommended Nayak’s name to the governor who had kept it in abeyance after seeking clarification twice.
 
