This summer, before taking care of your skin, take some time out for your pets.   is just round the corner and it brings with it health risks for our pooches too. 
As the temperature gradually soars, it is advised to keep your dog indoors. “Your pets could suffer from dehydration and in many cases, the exposure can be fatal,” says vet Dr Sakina Malik. The animal must be kept indoors, preferably under the fan. “Apart from taking caring of your pet at home, people must also keep a bowl of fresh and clean water outside their house or on the terrace,” she adds. 
  People in the city mostly have pets like  ,   and birds. Here are some tips for smooth sailing through summer with your pet.
 
 
  It’s time for a swim, doggies
 
 
  
  
 
 Mercury levels are rising in the city. So, you must make sure that your dog does not suffer from a heat stroke. Avoid leaving your pooch in a parked car in the outdoors, even if it is for a short while. Says Gaurav Matey, a dog lover and pet parent of two, “In summer, I rub ice-cubes on my dogs belly every alternate day. It cools them down. Some dogs also like sitting in the sun but one must monitor their exposure to the heat if this is the case.” Dogs also love water, so a swim would be ideal too.
 Just as we rely on eating fruits and drinking juices to keep ourselves hydrated during the summer, it is important to keep a check on your dog’s diet too. Pet parent Dushyant Chavan says, “I give my dog juicy fruits, buttermilk and yogurt with chapatti. One must avoid giving meat in summer because it generates excess heat in the animal’s body.”
 
 
  Your birds need some TLC too
 
 
  
 
  Fortunately, research says that birds can handle the heat better than mammals. Their normal body temperature ranges from 40 – 45 degrees Celsius. But anything beyond the normal body temperature can cause overheating in the body, and birds cannot regulate temperature like humans.
 Dr Gaurav Patil says “Lack of appetite or poor consumption of water aggravates the situation in summer. Excessive heat will probably have your pet panting with an open beak, wings spread away from the body and you might see them sitting at the bottom of the cage.” Make sure that your birds are indoor and safe, especially during dusk. Birds are equally prone to illness during the summer. 
 
 
  Lots of cool water and shade for your feline
 
  
  
 
  Cats are prone to attracting fleas and ticks in the summer which can lead to grave illness. One must hence make it a point to check for ticks thoroughly. Older cats need special attention as they are easily affected by rising temperature. They hence need to be kept cool.
 Shridevi Chaphekar, a pet enthusiast, says, “I keep fresh and clean water in every room including the terrace in an earthen vessel for my cat Zippy. This ensures the water remains cool at all times. Even though he is indoors all the time, I still keep a cardboard box for him to sleep in. Wiping cats with a damp cool cloth during afternoons is a must.” 
 
  
 Diet, Diet
 
  “All pet parents must ensure they keep their pets on a liquid-heavy diet during summer. Canine distemper and parvo virus vaccinations must be given to dogs, as summer is the time when they are prone to falling ill. Pets must be given vaccinations from time to time irrespective of the season”, says Dr Sanjay Kasar, a Nashik-based vet.
 
 
