Known to be the inspiration behind Aamir Khan's character in `3 Idiots', innovator and educator Sonam   is now focused on solving  's housing problem.Honoured with the Global Award for Sustainable Architecture (2017) and Rolex Award for Enterprise (2016) among others, Wangchuk, in the city to explore a joint innovation project with IIT M, talks to   about his early days, education and innovation.
Tell us about your Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh
 
 We take in students who have been rejected by the system -those who have failed 10th grade. These kids may not be great with theory but are good at practical applications. They run the school themselves which helps us be self-sustaining from a financial perspective. The school is like a mini-democracy governed by the students. From growing their own food to caring for animals and cleanliness and hy giene, the students handle it all. Our buildings are built with earth and material sourced locally, we run on solar energy...
 
 What lessons have you learned from your early years that you still apply?
 
 I grew up in a small village without a school. Till I was 8 and half years old, I didn't get any formal education.That was the best time of my learning because I learned from real people and their lives. While others were learning about roots, shoots and leaves from books, I learned by sowing seeds and watching them grow. We try and follow the same learning practices at our school. It is not natural for children to sit in a class for 8 hours...... We have schools that do not allow anything different, do not encourage questioning, parents that push students to do well in exams alone. This has to change.Children have to be allowed to question, to fail, think differently .
 
 What's your advice to children?
 
 You don't need expensive material or a fancy laboratory to innovate. Household things in the kitchen and garden are enough. In our worries about what we don't have, we forget we have. Innovation can and will thrive in adversity, not in abundance. When you have too much, you don't use your mind
 
