KOLKATA:   (CU) has decided to advance the date of admissions to each of its 66   (MA, MSc and MCom) by a month — from early September to August 1 — in the 2017-’18 academic session.

 The decision has been taken because the delay in starting the session had caused difficulties in completing syllabi on time and holding additional classes if needed. The delay had even pushed back first-semester examinations to January instead of December. 
 
 “The   classes used to usually begin between end-August and the first week of September,” Ashutosh Ghosh, CU vice-chancellor, said on Tuesday. “The first semester was affected for all PG courses. Hence, we now want to start the Master’s courses from August 1 in 2017.”
 
 “We will end the admission process to PG classes within a month of the results of final-year results of BA, BSc and BCom being published. This system will also ensure timely publication of undergraduate course results,” Ghosh said.
 
 CU has faced flak several times in the past over delayed results. 
 
 “The undergraduate Part III exams always end by April. Hence, we shall have adequate time to bring out the results in June. The distributions of answer scripts will be hastened, teachers will also have to meet a deadline so that the PG classes can begin on schedule,” said a CU source.
 
 For admissions to PG courses, admission criteria will be fixed even before the UG results are brought out. “One of the reasons to advance the postgraduation classes is that, under the current schedule, there is always less time to complete the first-semester syllabus,” Ghosh said. “Though CU always aimed at completing the first semester within December and hold exams, because of the delay in starting classes, first-semester tests were usually held in January for major departments like chemistry, zoology and some others. If the policy of starting early classes in PG is implemented, the first-semester exams will end within the first week of January. There will be adequate time for teachers to coordinate with students, teach them and finish the syllabus. Even special classes, which are often held over weekends, will no longer be required.”
 
 CU registrar Soma Bandopadhyay pointed out that among other benefits of advancing the admissions, if the admission process if completed on time, the semester break-up could be followed very smoothly, giving students six months in each term.
 
 
