LUCKNOW: A section of Muslim clerics from both Shia and Sunni sects came together under a unified front against the SP-Congress alliance for UP elections on Monday, a day after CM   and   vice-president Rahul Gandhi undertook a massive road show in Muslim-dominated areas of Lucknow. As a joint front, however, the clerics said they would decide within a day or two on which party to support.

 Interestingly, the dais included  , president of Al Imam Welfare Association, who only recently publicly extended his support to BSP.
 
 Headed by Maulana Kalbe Jawad, the clerics said that both the SP and Congress not only fooled Muslims in the past five and fifty years respectively but people of all religions, failing to fulfil promises made. As a front they appealed to people in UP irrespective of religion to disregard the alliance and for Muslims to vote tactically as one entity so as to be the deciding factor. 
 
 "Tall promises of 185 reservation to Muslims was promised by SP but not even 1% of it realised. Their last manifesto promised of freeing innocent Muslims jailed in terror cases, but as recent as February they went against the acquittal by court of six innocent Muslims," said Jawad. "They only gave 400 small and big riots in the state and then proudly announce the increment in cemeteries under the government!" he added while addressing reporters in the joint conference at Imambara Sibtainabad. 
 
 Jawad also accused SP of playing dubious roles in  's incident in Dadri and the communal riots of Muzaffarnagar. "There was no action against culprits of Muzaffarnagar. Instead refugee camps were brought down when SP ministers were busy celebrating in Saifai and a Muslim minister spending Rs 200 crore on a birthday party in Rampur," he said. jawad also said that SP's tall claims of development are hollow with all projects being majorly incomplete.
 
 BOX: Reacting on BJP's inclusion of Ram mandir in its manifesto, Jawad said that he would be ready to give away the disputed sight for the temple if the Supreme Court decides in its favour. "AIMPLB members have also said the same thing, if it is proved in court. In fact BJP is also implying the same by proposing to do so within Constitutional means," he said. 
 
