Indore: The eye witnesses to 23-year-old Shilpu Bhadoriya falling to death from the fourth floor of Lemon Tree hotel recounted the happenings of the day while giving their statements before the court of second additional sessions judge Kamal Joshi. 

 Adil, son of Mohd Safiq Khan, told the court that he worked at Lemon Tree hotel’s reception desk and booked hotel rooms. Recounting the incidents of August 7, Khan said he had seen the body of Bhadoriya lying in a pool of blood after her fall and accused Ashutosh had come down from his room, and was standing among the crowd. 
 
 Second prosecution witness Alam, son of Shareef Khan, told the court that he was employed as a guard at the hotel and was stationed in the parking area. 
 
 “He told the court that he had heard a thud and rushed to the spot. He then informed the hotel authorities about it. When Shilpu fell, she was wearing a blue colored salwar suit,” advocate Mohan Singh Chandel said. 
 
 Both the witnesses were cross examined by the defence advocates questioning them about their statements. They also identified the three accused -- Ashutosh Johare, Shailendra Saraswat and Neeraj Dandotiya in the court room.
 
 Adil Khan testified that he knew them as the three persons who had booked the room in the hotel, while identification. 
 
 Chandel, who is appointed as the special public prosecutor, conducted the examination in chief and advocate Uday Singh Kushwaha conducted the cross examination on behalf of Neeraj Dandotiya. 
 
 Three prosecution witnesses including Shivani Gupta, Shilpu’s colleague, another witness Dharmendra Rajawat and Manorama Johare, Ashutosh’s mother will be called on Tuesday for the examination.
 
 Shilpu Bhadoriya, a private firm employee, had died after falling from the balcony of the fourth floor of Lemon Tree hotel on August 7, 2016. The three accused had been present in the hotel room when the incident occurred. Police had earlier booked the three for abetment to suicide as the possibility of suicide was being considered. However, later when the chargesheet was filed, the three were booked for murder. 
 
 
