SHIMLA: Two   were reported from Mandi district of   on Friday. During the wee hours, a 26-year-old youth was charred to death inside a shop in Mandi town, then another incident was reported from   area of Seraj assembly constituency in the afternoon. While property worth several lakhs was gutted along with loss of precious human lives, incidents also brought forth the lurking dangers of fire hazard in hill state.

 Deceased youth identified as Dunni Chand, a resident of Palohi village of Mandi district, was sleeping inside a shop when the fire broke out. After conducting the postmortem, his body was handed over to the family members. Experts from forensic science laboratory have collected the samples from the spot. Police have also registered a case and started investigation.
 
 Tough geographical conditions and lack of fire-fighting arrangements makes Himachal Pradesh prone to fire hazard. During 2011-16, state has recorded 8,534 fire incidents causing an estimated loss of property valued at Rs 451.30 crore. As per norms fixed by the government in September 2014, one fire station needs to be set up for a population of two lakh in the state. The population of the state as per Census 2011 is Rs 68.57 lakh. 
 
 As such, 35 fire stations were required to be established but Comptroller and Auditor General’s report said that against this, only 22 fire stations (63%) have been established as of June 2016. It said that chief fire officer, Shimla, had stated in July last year that fire stations and fire posts (FPs) were being opened in phased manner to fulfil the requirement.
 
 Report said that national disaster management ( ) guidelines provide for setting up of FPs at block and village panchayats level to improve the reach of fire services. Monitoring of these FPs was to be done either through civil defence volunteers from the village or home guards. Audit has observed that there were 3,243 village panchayats in the state as of March 2016 but FPs had been set up in only 24 of them.
 
 As per NDM guidelines, fire hydrants need to be checked regularly to ensure that they are functional. Maps plotting the area wise location of fire hydrants (FHs) should be available with the local fire stations, police stations and revenue offices. In the four test-checked districts, CAG audit found that there were 813 FHs as of March last year. Of these, only 380 FHs were in working condition and 433 (53%) were non-functional as of June last year. 
 
 In Municipal Council (MC) area of   and Kangra, out of 60 FHs, only 12 (20%) were in working condition and of the remaining 48 FHs, six were not in working condition and 42 were untraceable. “Further,   fire officer intimated that due to scarcity of water and improper connectivity of FHs with water supply, the water was fetched from an open water source which was 10km away from Kangra fire station,” report said. It said that non-functioning of 53% of FHs in three districts (except Kullu district where all the fire hydrants were in working condition), proper safety from fire-related disasters could not be ensured.
 
