CHENNAI: The   Nadu   may have been tough, according to several examinees, but apparently many of the   are not even from the state. In the exam, which had a 25-mark section to check proficiency in Tamil, around 25 people, who have scored more than 70 out of 100, hailed from Maharashtra and  . The exam to fill around 300 vacancies in the post of postman and   in Tamil Nadu was conducted by the Tamil Nadu postal circle in November last year. Several candidates from the state, who failed to secure a job, now allege that something is amiss.

 The exam, although it had a section to check Tamil language skills, was open to candidates across India. Applications were invited for 44 divisions, which include Chennai City Central, Chennai City North, Chennai City south, Chennai GPO, Tambaram, etc. More than 1 lakh candidates wrote the exam. The qualification required was Class X pass and minimum age of 18. The exams were in a multiple choice questions (MCQ) format.
 
 The results for candidates for each division were announced on Tuesday on the TN postal circle’s website. One could download the marks list and candidates could also download complete details of other candidates.
 
 Some candidates from Tamil Nadu went through the list and found that they had not scored too well. They expected the poor result as the paper was tough, according to many. However, they found that certain candidates had scored more than 70 marks. “We took out their phone numbers to congratulate them and take tips from them so as to prepare for the next exam,” said one of the candidates who made the allegations.
 
 All these candidates, with high marks, were from Haryana. Copies of the admission sheets of seven candidates which have contact numbers and addresses of these candidates are available with TOI. Their registered addresses are in Hisar district. TOI called a few of them and they declined to identify themselves with the name provided in the admission cards. 
 
 The candidates from Tamil Nadu alleged that these Haryana candidates could not converse in Tamil when they called them up. “Nobody can say that only students from one state can apply for these all-India exams. But how is that students from Haryana, who can’t even speak basic Tamil, were able to score such high marks in the exam. This is an injustice and has to be investigated,” he said.
 
 Officials from the postal department could not be reached for comment. However, once the allegations began to spread on social media on Wednesday, the postal department deactivated the link on their website where one can check for details of the candidates. Petitions have been given to district collectors demanding a re-examination and probe.
 
 
