BENGALURU: After honing their skills at the Sree   here, top athletes   Nachappa, Reeth Abraham and Pramila Aiyappa won laurels for the country in track and field. On Thursday, the trio was back at the famous venue to win it back for athletes.

 Fed up with one football tournament after another repeatedly disrupting athletes' training at the stadium, Karnataka's legendary athletes and coaches joined forces to protest against the stepmotherly treatment meted out to athletes.
 
 "We can't be treated like criminals," Ashwini said.
 
 "There are major national and international meets coming up and the athletes need to train. These are all coaches who gave their heart and soul for the country," she said pointing to the likes of Dronacharya awardee N Lingappa.
 
 "We have only one synthetic track in Bengaluru city but Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports (DYES) officials want our kids travel to Vidyanagar (on the outskirts) to train. They don't realize that hundreds of kids come here to train after school. We appeal to chief minister Siddaramaiah to intervene so that national track and field athletes can resume training," Olympian Ashwini said while addressing hundreds of kids and top coaches waiting for the stadium gates to open.
 
 "We are denied entry into our own stadium," Ashwini said, pointing to all the gates being guarded by Border Security Force soldiers on duty for the Oorja-CAPF All India talent-hunt football tournament. Ashwini added athletes would start using the field from Friday and were ready to face any consequences.
 
 With the Karnataka Amateur Athletics Association (KAAA) officials failing to come to their rescue, the athletes and coaches rallied behind Bangalore Urban District Athletic Association (BUDAA) to highlight their plight.
 
 The crux of their grievance is the Stadium Licence Agreement signed between DYES and Bengaluru FC on May 22, 2014, when the city was in the running to host the   U-17 World Cup. Sprint legend  , who represented India in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, recalled that the stadium was built in 1948 when the city hosted the National Games.
 
 "Even hockey was played here but they all co-existed without troubling each other," Powell, who was part of the men's 4x100m relay squad with  , told TOI.
 
 Top coaches, including Lingappa, turned up the heat on home minister and KAAA president G Parameshwara for turning a deaf ear to their pleas. "Why is he continuing as the president if he is of no help to the athletes? I've never seen him visit the stadium when the athletes are training," they said. Besides Reeth and Pramila, also present at the protest was Dhyanchand award winner Satish Pillai and noted coaches VR Beedu, GV Gaonkar and Robert  , among others.
 
