
Arclights illuminate a stage in Mumbai, and bring an elaborately abstract set into high definition. A recorded voice speaks to the 800 occupied seats, introducing a musical. There’s jazz, tap and ballet, smoke and strobes, projected videos, rotating backdrops and dazzling costumes. The spectacle almost convinces you you’re watching a   production — when it is, in fact, an annual  .
 
 The once-modest school production with its homemade costumes and craft-y sets has grown up, flashing the razzle-dazzle associated with commercial entertainment. Indeed, several schools are drawing on professional talent to train students and mount their annual shows. 
 
  director Feisal Alkazi spends much of his time directing school plays across the country and has worked with 20 schools so far, including ones in Moradabad, Ghaziabad and Gwalior. “Many schools have scaled up their act in the last couple of years,” says Alkazi, who was recently in Chennai on such an assignment. However, he adds that he commits to the task only after making a preliminary visit to the school. “That the child should shine and have a great time is what I celebrate in children’s theatre, but some schools only want mega-size productions and are willing to invest heavily in them, often over Rs 20 lakh,” he says.
 
 In the good old days, Annual Day was a time for schools to parade their creativity and thrifty resourcefulness. The most original minds from among the staff and students would cobble together a variety show that included songs, dances, recitation and a showpiece play. The arts teacher was entrusted with set design, students’ mothers tasked with costumes, the piano teacher took over the music and the language teacher furnished a script and oversaw direction. But as they reached for better production values, schools started outsourcing everything but the performance itself to professionals. A professional dancer, whose troupe has performed at film awards, claims to have been paid Rs 6 lakh to train students for their annual day. “Some have even been known to have the play’s spoken parts recorded by voice artistes in a recording studio in Mumbai. All that’s left for the students is to mime their lines,” says Alkazi. 
  
 But the growing sophistication of their shows is indicative of the rising status of the performing arts in schools, argues Rahul D’lima, co-founder of the contemporary dance ensemble, TR Dance Company. “All international schools bring in professionals nowadays because they take their annual day productions very seriously,” says D’lima, who choreographed a set of dances last year for the   (ABWA) in Mumbai that had staged an adaptation of Upendra Kishore Roychowdhury’s Goopy Gone Bagha Byne. 
 
 
