JAIPUR: Two 14-year-old boys in Bassi of Jaipur died on their way to school. “The victims, Ganesh and Ashok, were standing under a tree for shelter during heavy rain when lightning struck them. Nearby people rushed the duo to hospital where both were declared brought dead,” said Bassi police station house officer (SHO)  .

 According to Singh, Ganesh and Ashok were resident of Chainpura locality in Bassi and were rushing to attend Republic Day celebrations in school. The bodies were handed over to families after police carried out important legal paperwork.
 
 In a similar incident in Bharatpur, a 35-year-old man died while on his way back from the market. “The victim, identified as  , is a resident of Jhankdi village near Thanagaji area of the district. He died on Thursday morning after lightning struck him,” police said.
 
 In Ajmer, 12 people including six children, suffered injury in two different incidents on Thursday due to lightning. They were rushed to nearby hospitals where conditions of two children remained serious even as on Friday.
 
 According to police, in Lalai village of Sarwar block in Ajmer, students of a government school were assembled to celebrate the Republic Day on Thursday morning when lightning struck the ground which left six students and three teachers injured.
 
 The incident triggered widespread panic in the area as local administration rushed the injured to nearby hospital. Several officials and leaders visited the hospital later in the day.
 
 “A bolt of lightning had struck at a water tank in the school ground which generated electric shocks across the ground. Some people fainted and were rushed to hospital where they were discharged after the initial treatment,” said  , SHO of Sarwar police station.
 
 In another incident in Ajmer, four persons were hit by lightning in   village on Thursday morning.
 
 Similarly, lightning also stuck in Chota Shahpura village of Kekri block of Ajmer in which four villagers were injured and were taken to hospital. Officials said that injured are currently undergoing treatment in hospital.
 
