CHANDIGARH: One would have expected the fog of uncertainty, ominously hanging over Punjab, to finally lift and a clear winner to emerge ahead of Saturday's voting for the117 seats in the border state's assembly. But as campaigning ended on Thursday , the fog only seemed to get denser.

 AAP's popularity has ensured that the election becomes a closely-fought triangular battle for the first time along with   (SAD) and Congress. This has ensured that most people shy away from making predictions and choose to deal in `ifs' and `buts' to cover all bases.
 
 AAP is popular in the Malwa region which has 69 seats, the maximum in the state. But will the substantial Hindu Bania community vote for Arvind Kejriwal & Co given the allegations that AAP has support of certain Sikh groups?
 
 How will the bomb blast in Maur play out given that Sikh radical groups are being accused of triggering it? Will Congress's personality-driven campaign of promoting Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu be enough to give it that much-needed win to show that it still has some gas left in the tank to win a major state? Can SAD emerge as the shock winner if the anti-incumbency vote is divided between Congress and AAP despite the strong resentment against Akalis and allegations that the government failed to stop instances of damage to the Sikh holy books by miscreants?
 
 This is only a small sample of the unanswered questions before people decide the fate of the state on Saturday . Some observers feel that in stead of looking at Pun jab's election as one composite election, it should be seen as 117 different elections with each constituency having a complex set of factors playing out. If individual candidates matter on certain seats, party's appeal is a force on other seats. If anti-incumbency is playing out on some seats, powerful sects like Dera Sacha Sauda and Radhasaomi can influence results on other seats.
 
 Interestingly , Dera Sacha Interestingly, Dera Sacha Sauda, which has a large army of supporters in Malwa, on Wednesday openly declared support for the SADBJP alliance. Dera supporters, or `Premis', rarely waver from the diktat they receive but many Sikhs may now hesitate to vote for the alliance.SAD leaders say that there are many seats especially in Malwa on which the dera has 15,000 or more voters and Sikhs who were upset with them have already shifted their allegiance to other parties. AAP is also riding onetime comic and now MP Bhagwant Mann's popularity in Malwa. His rustic satire and funny one-liners always draw in big crowds.
 
 Congress, on the other hand, has a fairly strong sup port base in the 25 seats of the Majha region which includes border regions like Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran. If parties hold on to these strongholds, then the 23 seats in central Punjab with Phagwara, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and others could well turn into battleground constituencies.
 
 To shore up Congress's chances, vice-president Rahul Gandhi addressed voters in key constituencies like Lambi and Sangrur hours before campaigning ended on Thursday and promised to end scourge like drug abuse and cancer.
 
 Kejriwal, on the other hand, campaigned for lawyer H S Phoolka in Ludhiana's Dakha constituency and alleged that the state government itself appointed a factfinding commission in numerous instances of sacrilege in the state but never made the report public. Sidhu chose to campaign for his old friend, former India hockey captain Pargat Singh, in Jalandhar Cantt.
 
 After the votes are cast on February 4, Punjab will have to wait with bated breath for more than a month before results are declared on March 11.Till then, political strategists of all parties will have to pull out calculators and keep doing their arithmetic in the hope that they did not get the numbers wrong.
 
 
