CHENNAI: With just 8 months of experience, Madhumitha R, a content writer at a digital marketing firm receives Rs 28,000 per month, atleast 30% more than what content writers got about a year ago.

 A psychology graduate with a flair for writing, Madhumitha’s opportunity as a content writer grew with Google slowly introducing changes in the way search results appear online. “Knowledge of psychology is an added advantage, as it can help me find what connects to people,” she said.
 
 Over the past 6-7 months, digital marketers have been spotting that the search engine pushes up content & blog sites up the search results list. It is no longer the keywords that get the site on top, but well-packaged content that relates to netizen’s searches.
 
 This change has led to digital marketers up their ante in hiring content writers. Mostly, Psychologists, literature graduates are hired. “Mere search engine optimisation does not work anymore.. This has led to a demand for writers who can make the website climb up the search ladder and connect to people. I have increased the size of my content writing team in the last few months,” said Santhosh Palavesh, founder, UMM digital, a marketing startup.
 
 HR firms say that salaries too are rising 30-50%given the rise in demand. Those with a 5-year experience can look at paypackets in the Rs 15-25 lakhs per annum, they add. “Increasing the focus on content writing, companies are looking at a team of 3-4 people to keep their blog up and running,” said Jayadev Mahalingam, co-founder, PiQube, a recruitment firm. Aditya Mishra, CEO, CIEL HR services, sees an increase in demand for UI/UX talent as well.
 
 Parenting startup Flintobox has increased the number of content writers from 1 to 4 in the last 6 months. It has also increasing the number of blog posts from one every week to one post per day. “Content writers write about customers, their problems and solutions instead of putting the brand first. This resonates better,” said Arunprasad Durairaj, co-founder, Flintobox.
 
 Content that resonates with customers also work out a less expensive way for cash-strapped startups and a tepid funding scene. Krish Subramanian, CEO, Chargebee says that while there are no specific qualifications he looks for, the ability to bring out a new outlook on products or services takes centrestage. “We not only post on the blog, but also on discussion forums, where our content gets read and leads about our product are generated and thereby, there is an increase in the number of conversions,” said Subramanian.
 
 
 
