SAROJININAGAR:   MP from Kannauj and wife of UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, Dimple on Thursday warned youngsters not to get swayed by BJP's poll manifesto promising anti-Romeo squad to check eve-teasing and said it will eventually take shape of an anti-Romeo-Juliet squad to harass couples and deny freedom of youngsters to choose their life-partners.

 “SP government has provided several public spaces like Janeshwar Mishra Park with safe environment where you can play with kids, take along your mother, wife, or even girlfriend,” she said, addressing election rally in Sarojininagar to promote the party candidate  . She did not specify but her statement was to hit the love-jihad and ani-Valentine’s stance of the saffron brigade. She went on to say that SP government not only improved policing by introducing dial 100 service, it has also begun women power line 1090 and saved over 6 lakhs girls in the state from stalkers.
 
 Attacking BJP, she said its leaders were spreading misinformation in the past saying UP was ruled by four-and-a-half chief ministers. “Those who have made such statements have failed to provide a CM face in the elections, whereas under Akhilesh emerged as a successful leader and led the state to development,” she said. 
 
 About the work done and planned by the party for women, Dimple said, “We now plan to associate 1 crore destitute ladies to pension schemes so that they can get Rs 1,000 every month in their personal accounts. The party is also planning to initiate 35% reservation in all government jobs for women.”
 
 She also said that after the state capital, Metro will come to Kanpur, Meerut and Banaras. Talking about the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, she said, “There is no other road in the country where fighter planes can land during an emergency and we are proud to build a road like this in our state.” Dimple asked people to stay cautious and do not repeat the mistake that they have made in 2014 Lok Sabha Elections. “Once you have made the mistake of letting them (BJP) win 73 seats from here. Don’t fall into the trap again,” she said. 
 
