A day after   got their   campaign back to winning track, the Mancunians are remembering the darkest day in their history. The club website has posted the black and white photographs and a commemorative post of the day when   happened.

 On February 6 1958, 23 people - including eight players and three members of the club's staff - suffered fatal injuries in the Munich air crash.
 
 Juan Mata, the current United midfielder, writes in his blog: "This is always a very emotional day, a date to remember and to honour all of them, and also those who strove to respect and praise that legacy. This is one of the reasons that makes this club so special. There's no day that you don't remember that 6th of February when walking by Old Trafford. It's always in our memories."
 
 Flying back from a European Cup tie against Red Star Belgrade, the team plane stopped in Germany to refuel. The first two attempts to take off from Munich airport were aborted; following a third attempt, the plane crashed.
 
 Twenty-one of the people on board died instantly. Aeroplane captain Kenneth Rayment died a few weeks later from the injuries he sustained while Duncan Edwards - one of the eight victims from the team - passed away 15 days after the crash. The tragedy is an indelible part of United's history, as is Sir Matt Busby overcoming his injuries to build another great team which won the European Cup 10 years later, says the club website.
 
 Roger Byrne (28), Eddie Colman (21), Mark Jones (24), David Pegg (22),   (26), Geoff Bent (25), Liam Whelan (22) and Duncan Edwards (21) all died, along with club secretary Walter Crickmer, trainer Tom Curry and coach Bert Whalley.
 
 Eight journalists died - Alf Clarke,  , Don Davies, George Fellows, Archie Ledbrook,  , Henry Rose, and Frank Swift who was a former Manchester City player. Plane captain Ken Rayment perished, as did Sir Matt's friend Willie Satinoff. Travel agent Bela Miklos and crew member Tom Cable also died.
 
 Busby almost lost his life as well. Fortunately, he survived and returned to Manchester 71 days after the crash. In the meantime, Jimmy Murphy - who missed the tragedy because of his commitments as manager of the Welsh national side - brilliantly guided a patched-up team to an emotionally charged FA Cup Final. Bolton Wanderers beat United 2-0 at Wembley.
 
 After taking up the managerial reigns again in August 1958, Busby began to add some big money purchases to his homegrown talent.
 
 League titles followed in 1965 and 1967, giving Busby the chance to conquer Europe in the following seasons. In 1965/66, United reached the semifinals, just as the Babes had done in 1956/57 and 1957/58. But in 1968 the Reds finally made the last giant leap, reaching the final at Wembley where Portuguese side Benfica provided the opposition.
 
 On another epic and emotional night, United triumphed 4-1 after extra-time to win the European Cup. It was a fitting tribute to the players and staff killed and injured 10 years before and was Busby's crowning achievement as manager. His team almost retained the Cup in 1968/69, before bowing out to AC Milan in the semifinal.
 
 The club has arranged some events, like every year, to commemorate the 59th anniversary of the tragedy.
 
