BENGALRU:   among children and mothers continue to haunt six districts of the  . According to health officials from the region, 2016 saw 2-3 infant deaths per day in each of these districts on an average. 

 The cheap rice, free milk, nutrition tablets and egg scheme launched to tackle hunger and malnutrition among poor children two years ago in the most-backward districts of this region haven’t quite helped tackle the problem. As a result, the six districts -- Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Bidar, Koppal and Ballari -- continue to record high rates of child deaths (less than five years old), and most are suspected to have died from severe malnutrition.
 
 In Kalaburagi, for instance, the situation is alarming. According to government figures, around 559 children and nine pregnant mothers died between January and November 2016 due to various ailments. In 2015, 522 children and five mothers succumbed in a span of twelve months. The situation is no different in malnutrition-prone districts of Raichur and Koppal, where infant mortality rate has gone up by 10% over 2015 figures. Most of these children have succumbed to diarrhoea and pneumonia, apart from respiratory problems.
 
 Admitting to a marginal increase in infant mortality rate, Kalaburagi district health officer Sajjan Shetty maintained that it was largely due to private nursing homes and hospitals reporting infant deaths. Otherwise, he said, the district was well within the national average as far as infant mortality was concerned (34 deaths per 1,000 children).
 
 In 2014, the Karnataka high court constituted a nine-member panel headed by Justice N K Patil, after B L Patil of Vimochana Sangha, an NGO, wrote to former Chief Justice Vikramjit Sen to look into the issue.
 
 In his report, Justice Patil favoured providing food to children in anganwadis as per the food habits of the region. The committee also recommended setting up special hospitals in each district headquarters for malnourished children and their mothers. The state government started providing eggs and milk at anganwadi centres and prepared a comprehensive action plan to address the issues by involving anganwadi and Asha workers from rural health centres. However, nothing seems to have changed despite these steps.
 
 “Though the government has heeded some of my recommendations, it has failed in effectively implementing and monitoring the schemes started to check malnutrition in the region. There is also a need to implement some of my other recommendations,” said Justice Patil.
 
 From a dearth of child specialists and gynaecologists, absence of primary health centres, to lack of awareness among mothers -- Shashidhar Biredaar, who works for a NGO, cited various reasons for continuing deaths in this region. “Over half of all child deaths are associated with malnutrition as it weakens the body’s resistance to illness. Poor diet, frequent illness, and inadequate child care are leading to malnutrition,” said Biredaar.
 
 
 
 
 The scourge of malnutrition related deaths in backward Hyderabad-Karnatak region is shocking and must serve as a call for quick action. Besides human suffering, unhealthy diets have a detrimental impact on the ability of the region state to develop and prosper. The real problem lies not in its budget, but in poor implementation. The state has failed as it focuses only on announcing schemes, implemented through a leaky and corrupt distribution system. Karnataka should take the cue from developing countries, which have brought down malnutrition rates rapidly by employing a multi-pronged attack, encompassing preventive systems such as safe drinking water and sanitation, increased spending on health, mass awareness campaigns and an effective network of community workers. It is an opportunity the government cannot afford to miss; it's people's right to a healthy diet.
 
 
 
 
