SHILLONG: Legal service providers and other government stakeholders affirmed their commitment to come forward and support transgender community members in Meghalaya to protect their rights in line with Supreme Court's National Legal Services Authority of India (NALSA) judgement of April, 2014.

 The discussion was made during a state-level workshop organized here by SAATHII and AMANA, in partnership with Meghalaya State Legal Services Authority (MSLSA) here on Saturday. A total of 23 legal service providers, associated with MSLSA and District Legal Services Authority, six representatives from various departments including Social Welfare, Education, Health, Home, Law, as well transgender community members, associated with Shamakami, a local support group, were part of the workshop.
 
 "Transgender people in Meghalaya - and globally - are extremely vulnerable to harassment, discrimination, violence and sexual assault, resulting in violation of their human rights," says Santa  , secretary, All Manipur Nupi Manbi Association (AMANA), an alliance that aims to improve the lives and experiences of transgender people.
 
 In response to a petition filed by the NALSA concerning transgender rights, the Apex Court delivered a landmark judgement on April 15, 2014 recognizing the need for granting full citizenship, regardless of gender assigned at birth, protecting rights and making provision of entitlements for transgender individuals. Following the judgement, the Centre and State governments were directed by the SC to implement recommendations within six months, i.e. by October 15, 2014.
 
 Key recommendations in the judgment included grant of legal recognition of transgender persons' gender identity such as male, female or as third gender based on self-identification, initiation of steps to treat transgender people as socially and educationally backward classes, and extend all kinds of reservation in cases of admission in educational institutions and for public appointments, address the problems being faced by transgender people such as fear, shame, gender dysphoria, social pressure, depression, suicidal tendencies, social stigma, and ensure proper measures to provide medical care to them in hospitals, framing various social welfare schemes for their betterment, and help them regain their respect and place in the society.
 
 "The Union ministry of social justice and empowerment had constituted an Expert Committee in October, 2013 to make an in-depth study of the problems being faced by the transgender community. The SC ruling has referenced the   report asking for it to be implemented within a six-month period (until October 2014) after the verdict. Despite this deadline, many of the states - including Meghalaya - have not been able to make significant progress in this," points out Biswa Bhusan Pattanayak, senior programme manager, SAATHII.
 
 L. Ramakrishnan, vice president SAATHII, Santa Khurai, secretary AMANA, and Biswa Bhusan Pattanayak of SAATHII made a joint presentation on the NALSA judgement and way forward for transgender inclusion in Meghalaya through specific measures such as formation of a transgender welfare board, ending bullying against gender non-confirming children in schools, need for recognizing transgender people as head of household for accessing ration card under National Food Security Act and affordable and trans-sensitive healthcare.
 
 Dona, a transgender activist from   spoke from her personal experience of being bullied in school due to her gender expression, though her mother was supportive. She appealed for mapping of transgender community members by the state government to enable comprehensive assessment of needs, and measures to enhance access to social security schemes.
 
 Mili (name changed), a transgender activist from Shillong, narrated stories of harassment towards community members stating that the police don't allow community members to go out in public after 10 at night.
 
 Santa Khurai, a transgender activist from Manipur, emphasised the importance of implementation of the NALSA judgement in Meghalaya towards protecting rights of transgender individuals and extending socio-legal and medical benefits.
 
 Speaking on behalf of the Meghalaya State Legal Services Authority, W. Diengdoh affirmed that MSLSA would strategize on how to generate awareness among public about the issues of transgender people, and also generate awareness among transgender individuals about their rights.
 
 The MSLSA was open to including transgender community members as para-legal workers towards extending legal aid support to fellow community members, he asserted, adding that the MSLSA would examine ways to support community members in obtaining gender-identity change affidavits.
 
