BHANGAR: The arrest of a 35-year-old Bokdoba villager, whom police dubbed as a “history sheeter”, infuriated Bhangar villagers on Sunday leading to a fresh stand-off between the cops and several-thousand protesters, who put up tree logs as road blocks and set small fires to stop police from entering Bhangar’s strife-torn villages.

 A huge police contingent, including RAF personnel, remained confined outside the four-kilometre stretch from Bokdoba to Shyamnagar. Tension reminiscent of near-similar scenes that led to the January 17 police-public violence remains in the area till reports last came in.
 
 Bhangar has been on the boil over Power Grid Corporation of India Limited’s proposed Rajarhat 400/220kv substation with 1000MVA capacity. The villagers have been protesting against forcible land acquisition, threats and intimidation and the impact of high tension wires on their land.
 
 For the ruling Trinamool — and the state — which has been keen to rein in the hotbed on the city’s southern fringes, the fresh escalation threatens to undo its intense month-and-a-half-long outreach it had launched. Ironically, if the local anger initially was directed against Arabul Islam and Abdur Rezzak Mollah, on Sunday it was directed against Kaiser Ahmed and  , who were leading the party’s efforts to regain its former bastion. On Friday night, Kaiser had to face the brunt of local ire when villagers confined him for long hours.
 
 According to villagers, the immediate trigger to the Sunday flare-up was the arrest of Ahad Ali Mollah. Police claimed he was a “history-sheeter”. Ahad, they claimed, was tracked to his home in Bokdoba by a joint raid by the North and South 24-Parganas police. However, sources claimed, what police misread yet again was the fact that area was already tense after a Trinamool-organised peace rally the day before stoked passions.
 
 Two villagers claimed they were injured when stray bombs and brickbats were hurled at them by the flag-wielding rallyists. Allegations were also levelled against local   leader Abbas Ali Mollah whose home was reportedly used to attack the villagers.
 
 The arrest immediately drew nearly 9,000 people to the roads, nearly a third of them women, who marched from Bokdoba to Shyamnagar. They demanded that Ahad be unconditionally released forthwith. When police tried to enter the zone, people resisted them prompting the cops to drop their plan. 
 
 
