NEW DELHI: Observing that prima facie it appeared that app-based cab service providers   were charging excess fare, a court on Monday summoned the two   to appear before it as accused on December 11. 

 The court's direction came on a complaint filed by NGO Nyayabhoomi that alleged the two app-based service providers were not adhering to fare rules based on the meters in their vehicles.
 
 According to metropolitan magistrate Abhilash Malhotra, it was prima facie clear that the two service providers were running public service vehicles on "contract carriage basis". "Prima facie, it is clear that excess fares have been charged by the respondent companies in violation of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act. Accordingly, a prima facie case for permit violation under Section 192 (A) MV Act is made out," the court said. 
 
 Earlier, on the submissions of the complainant's advocate Sumit Kumar Modi, the court had observed that Ola and Uber were acting as aggregators who were deciding the drivers, customer allocation, fares, SOS protocols and other administrative issues. 
 
 It was alleged that no licence under Section 93 of the MV Act were obtained by them for running the public service vehicles in Delhi, which is in violation of the   (CTS), 2015, and Section 93 of the MV Act. Accordingly, the court said that prima facie ingredients of Section 193 M V Act are attracted against Ola and Uber. 
 
 The court observed that a transport department notification dated June 20, 2013, had prescribed the minimum fare per kilometer, night charges, waiting charges and flag down charges. The notification, the court said, was issued following Section 67 MV Act and a provision of the CTS, mandating that only fares prescribed by the transport department shall be charged. Thereafter, a Delhi high court judgment had directed Ola and Uber not to charge fare more than the cap stipulated in the notification, the court said.
 
 The court was also informed that the CTS mandates a taxi driver to have a public service vehicle badge besides stipulating electronic digital fare meters on the front panel of the taxi. The complainant alleged that the two cab aggregators in question had not ensured about the badges. It was also alleged that the digital fare meters were not working and the fares were calculated through the app.
 
