GREATER NOIDA: In order to provide 18 hours of   to rural areas following Yogi government’s diktat of 'power to all' pact (of 24 hour supply to cities and districts and 18 hour supply in rural areas) between the CM and union power minister   on April 14, the Noida power department is all set to supply power to rural areas of Dankaur and Jewar under Pt Deendayal Gram Jyoti Yojna Scheme.

 Under the scheme, two substations of 33/11 Kv will be ready and functional at Bhatta Parsaul near   near Badalpur (in Dadri) by end of August this year. In addition to these, a third substation of 33/11 Kv at Khoda sector 62 will be ready by June-end, Mukul Singhal told TOI. 
 
 In addition to these, two more rural area substations of 33/11 Kv at Bankapur, near Jehangirpur (Jewar) and another at NTPC-Dadri road will undergo capacity enhancement of up to 5000 Kva each to be ready by June-end said Singhal. “This will ensure increased capacity of both substations to 20000 Kva as currently they are performing at 15000 Kva,” said Singhal.
 
 These measures were discussed in a district level meeting at collectorate Surajpur on Saturday with Jai Pratap Singh, minister of Excise and Prohibition, Government of Uttar Pradesh. Singh, who’s also in charge of Gautam Budh Nagar, was taking stock of rural development schemes over the weekend in the district.
 
 Meanwhile a meeting was held between UP Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) CEO Arun Vir Singh on Friday (May 19) where it was decided to charge three substations of 33/11 KVA, in sectors 17A, 24A and 22D, lying idle for past three years so as to procure 60 MVA load of electricity by September 1, 2017 to meet the demand of YEIDA area. “The initial plan was to draw power from Gharbara power station in Greater Noida to these substations, but a dispute between the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) and Noida Power Corporation Limited (NPCL) over transmission control pending hearing in Supreme Court, led to the stalling of the process,” Singhal told TOI.
 
 Singhal adds that in the interim period now, (till the litigation matter is resolved) arrangement is being made by UPPCL to supply 60 MVA power “to the three substations by September this year from Mandi Shyam Nagar power station in Greater Noida’s Dankaur area,” said Singhal.
 
 YEIDA is pushing for power supply in the region as apart from pressure of possession from over 5000 homebuyers, the authority also has to provide power to over 300 acre of proposed Patanjali food, herbal and Ayurveda centre in the region.
 
