Panaji: Tourism department’s state-level permission committee (SLPC) on Tuesday directed the organiser of electronic dance music (EDM) festival ‘Time Out 72’ to immediately stop the sale of tickets for the three-day event scheduled during December 28-30 at Vagator, Anjuna. The move came after the organiser, Ahmedabad-based M/s Sudarshan Entertainment Pvt Ltd, failed to produce necessary documents, said an SLPC member. Although the festival was granted in-principle approval for the event about two months ago, the organiser was asked to submit various plans to help authorities understand its preparedness in the event of any emergency at the venue. They were also asked to submit plans pertaining to fire-fighting preparedness besides other details of the event, the member said.  M/s Sudarshan Entertainment Pvt Ltd was directed to prepare and submit plans pertaining to fire safety, traffic management, health safety and relevant safety plans in consultation with respective departments.  “But the organiser didn’t bring any plan for the meeting,” the member said, adding that they have been asked to produce all documents at the earliest, after which the next meeting will be summoned. Another SLPC member said after granting in-principle approval, the organiser was given a month’s time to submit documents and at least two reminders were sent when the firm failed to revert to the tourism department within the stipulated time. A government source said the tourism department will not be duty-bound to keep the dates locked if the event organiser in question delays submission of documents. The tourism department, meanwhile, has received one more proposal to conduct an EDM festival at Candolim on December 29-30 and discussed it at the last SLPC meeting. In this case too, the organisers have been asked to submit all plans and evolve a system to identify the exact number of tickets sold. They have also been told to come up with a system to record the identity of each person purchasing tickets, a member of the SLPC said.