NEW DELHI: 
  alleged today that he witnessed his   colleague Satyendar Jain give party chief   Rs 2 crore in cash.

 Mishra added that he informed Delhi's Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) about this transaction immediately. Yesterday, when he went to meet the AAP chief, Mishra told him he's informed the ACB. Mishra implied that's why he was 
  . 
 
 "Day before yesterday, at Kejriwal's house I saw Satyendar Jain give Kejriwal Rs 2 crore in cash," said Mishra. Jain is health and PWD minister in the Kejriwal government.
 
 "I asked him 'What is this? What is this for?' He (Kejriwal) refused to answer. And then he said 'In politics things like this happen that can only be talked about later,'" Mishra said today at a press conference at Rajghat.
 
 "I couldn't sleep all night after this," Mishra added.
 
 
 
 
 Mishra said he "had to" tell Delhi's Anti Corruption Bureau about this immediately.
 
 "After seeing the cash with my own eyes, there is no way I could be quiet. I don't care about my political position or even my life. I couldn't take this lying down," Mishra said.
 
 Mishra said that he's the only minister who's not being investigated for anything. He added that unlike him, Jain's name has come up in corruption cases.
 
  "Satyendar Jain's name has come up in cases to do with black money and money laundering. He's being investigated by the CBI," said Mishra. The AAP leader was referring to a CBI inquiry into Jain for naming his architect daughter to an important committee on health and sending her to IIM Ahmedabad for a course meant for hospital administrators. 
 
 
 
 
 Immediately after the 
  , Mishra tweeted saying "I saw it day before yesterday and yesterday morning raised my voice against it openly. It was impossible to wait even a day." He was referring to the alleged transaction he witnessed at Kejriwal's house.
 
  
  
 Mishra further said "The day Satyendar Jain goes to jail, everything I've said will come true. It's just a matter of a few days."
 
  
  
 
 After Mishra's press conference, party colleague Manish Sisodia told reporters that his allegations were "absurd" and "not worth responding to".
 
 
 
 
 
 Sisodia reiterated that the reason for Mishra being sacked as water minister was mismanagement in water supply and billing.
 
 Mishra responded to that on Twitter: "Until yesterday they were blaming electronic voting machines for losing the (MCD) election, now they're saying the reason is water issues. Why is Arvind Kejriwal hiding from the media?"
 
  
  
 
  
