Gurgaon: Cash-starved  , which is struggling to recover dues from  , has amended its policy, making it mandatory for vends to seek fresh approval from the development authority and pay six-month   in advance. The authority has already issued notices to 11 liquor vendors that have flouted the new norms, which came into effect from April 1.

  The liquor shops that come under the jurisdiction of estate office-1 have been given 24 hours to take corrective measures and asked to vacate the land if they don’t follow the new policy. 
 
 These liquor vends, according to Huda, have failed to clear dues for years. The development body is all set to recover around Rs 90 lakh from the 11 liquor vendors, a Huda official said. None of the liquor vends, which have been issued notice, have applied for new approval to operate from Huda land, he said. All vends should apply for fresh Huda approval as the policy has been amended already.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said the department had formulated the new policy to ensure that money that the vends owed to the authority for using its land was paid as per the rules. “Huda needs to generate resources. Also, the vends need to take approvals as per norms,” he said.
 
 “Huda has been undergoing bitter experiences for last few years. Huge rent amount is due towards the licences for liquor vends. It is not being paid either by the excise department or licensees, due to which Huda is facing huge financial loss,” said sub-divisional engineer of Huda HS Jakhad in a letter to excise department.
 
 The letter further stated that licences were issued by the excise department and in case rent is not paid, the excise department should take appropriate action against the liquor vends. “It was brought to the notice that previous defaulters have also got licences again. Despite repeated requests, the excise department has not initiated any action to get the previous rent recovered for the years 2012-13, 2013-14, 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17,” said Jakhad.
 
 Huda official said in view of above facts, the authority is unable to provide space for liquor vends unless and until previous dues are not cleared by the defaulters. “To set up liquor vends on Huda land for 2017-18, at least six months of advance rent should be deposited,” said Jakhad. 
 
 The civic body charges six per cent of government rate of allotted land as rent from liquor shops and three per cent of government rate of land for liquor vends. Though Huda has leased out land for rent to liquor shops in the city, but for last few years, it has not been able to recover dues from the liquor shops.
 
 Clarifying its position on non-recovery of rent from liquor vends, the excise department in a March 30 letter to Huda mentioned that as per the provisions of the new excise policy, the department shall offer land to the licensees for setting up liquor vends having revenue potential in Huda area, and on land of Haryana Tourism Cooperation and urban local bodies.
 
 However, the rent thereof, as decided by the respective department, shall be paid by the licensees to the department concerned. The excise department shall monitor and ensure the compliance on a quarterly basis. 
 
 “The rent for space for setting up liquor vends shall be decided by the respective department and it shall be paid by the licensees to the department that owns the land. The excise department shall not be liable to pay the rent for any space rented out by the department that owns the land…” the letter by the excise department stated.
 
 
