Actor T   seemed to have went over board while talking about actress Dhanshikaa for forgetting to mention his name during the recent 'Vixhithiru' press meet. He lashed out at the actress using his quirky rhyming speech. While the banter started as a joke, it soon turned into a controversial speech as T Rajendhar didn't stop even after Dhanshikaa touched his feet in apology. 

 Both actor Krishan and director   were seen laughing for T Rajendar’s comments, and hence a lot of fans on social networking sites are asking him why he didn’t condemn T Rajendar. The two have now come out with a statement voicing their opinion in support of Dhanshikaa. 
 
 In his statement, Venkat Prabhu said, "I was brought up to show respect to elders at all instances. Uncle TR voiced out his thoughts at the Vizhithiru function. What we thought as a tease initially, turned out to become serious. I was caught off guard.   is an industry freshie with little experience in public speaking. I believe it is the responsibility of us seniors to guide. Guidance is god's work. I humbly request for no other to have an outburst. We gain nothing from hurting. I convey this with utmost respect as always."
 
 Actor Krishna said, "As a self respecting individual who lives by a moral code and someone who in the last few years is educating a girl, kindly don't mistake my silence at the stage for anything less. I do revere all genders equally. What started initially as a joke suddenly became serious and offensive. What transpired at the stage went downhill really fast, there was nothing any of us could have done at that time."
 
 "In my opinion, and I am sure everyone on stage agrees with me that interrupting a senior actor like TR sir is not stage manners but the repeated disrespect shown by him towards   is unacceptable and unjustifiable and between, it's disrespectful regardless of gender. If any of us would have raised objection to him at that momnet, then, a press meet to promote a film would have turned into a chaotic environment with unnecessary exchange of dialogues," he further added.
 
 "I hope the seniors find it in their heart to forgive and help the juniors who need it the most. Only we can help each other," conculded Krishna. 
 
 
