CHENNAI: Some of the biggest names in corporate America and India Inc voted last week to formally separate United States   Council (USIBC) from former parent body  . The roster includes the likes of Pepsico chief Indra Nooyi, Mastercard CEO Ajay Banga, John Chambers, executive chairman, Cisco, former defense secretary William S. Cohen and   co-chief executive Charles Kaye. At the voting late last week, some used proxies while others voted in person said sources.

 The USIBC has more than 300 members. Well-known members from corporate India include Mahindra Group chairman & MD Anand Mahindra and KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar. The development came after a section of high-profile USIBC members made it clear that they preferred the council to remain independent rather than exist as an arm of the US Chamber of Commerce even as the latter tried to establish its dominant claim. 
 
 This led to an email trail with the two sides pushing their point of view. Indeed on July 11, Thomas J Donohue, president and CEO, US Chamber of Commerce wrote an email to USIBC members saying, “You may have received a letter from Ed Monser of Emerson Electric, purporting to speak on behalf of the USIBC. The letter states that, on July 7, a number of USIBC board members either voted or gave their proxy in support of the creation of a new US-India organization outside of the chamber. I want you to be reassured that, regardless of this curious action, the Chamber’s USIBC program is alive and well, and that the Chamber will continue to operate the USIBC robustly to the benefit of its members and the business community, as it always has.”
 
 The storm at USIBC has been brewing for a while but matters came to a head during PM Narendra Modi’s visit which was followed by the departure last month of USIBC president  , say sources. Part of the reason why USIBC wishes to remain independent is because of late it has taken a strong stance on a number of issues relevant to India including H1B visa among others. The dispute over turf and prominence between the two bodies is nearly a decade old and Donohue’s email claimed that, “contrary to Mr Monser’s letter, members of the USIBC board have no ability to “transition” the USIBC to “a fully separate status.” The USIBC is a part of the Chamber, and the Chamber does not plan to transition it anywhere. The USIBC has no separate existence and its board has no legal authority. Rather, the USIBC board is an advisory board of volunteer members who provide USIBC with policy guidance...”
 
 Sources say some attempts at reconciliation between the two bodies will be made this week. When contacted, USIBC senior communications manager Sukanya Sen said in an email reply: “The blog post (Thomas Donohue's mail) on the USIBC website is the official USIBC statement.” Several calls to her since then went unanswered.
 
