Nagpur: In an academic season which has already seen record breaking scores in Std X exams, another barrier is all set to be breached on Saturday.

 Everything points to the bifocal course cut-off list for 2017-18 academic session to be the highest ever in city’s history with the only question being which subject will take the pole position.
 
 The current record stands at 98% (2014-15 session) for computer science subject. Since the general science stream itself saw a record cut-off at 97%, there remains little doubt that the bifocal cut-off will inch closer to 99%.
 
 Kabir Rawlekar, vice-principal of Ambedkar college, which holds the bifocal record, said “Declaring cut-offs have been pushed ahead by a day as the admission window for general science has been extended. Only after completing general science admission will we start filling up bifocal course seats.”
 
 While the focus has been on high cut-offs and the first ever online version of Common Admission Process (AP) for Std XI, academicians say there is another aspect of this which is getting sidelined.
 
 A senior principal blamed the state for ‘forcibly’ pushing them all into online CAP system. “Even when CAP was partially online (till last year), there was a choice given to colleges to opt out but now they have made mandatory. CAP works only for colleges that have big advertising budgets and those that have tie-ups with coaching classes, as that ensures a steady stream of admissions for them,” the principal said.
 
 “What about smaller junior colleges like us? We have to rely on students in our catchment area as we don’t have budget to advertise for everybody’s benefit,” the principal added.
 
 Another issue which colleges wanted the government to look into from next year was the admission window. Another senior principal said, “Minimum seven working days need to be given to complete admission formalities because of the numbers we are handling plus also to take into account delays by students due to completely unavoidable situations.”
 
 “The problem with the education department is that it doesn’t take us into confidence while planning anything. It’s only after a problem occurs that it makes changes to the schedule and ultimately messes up everything,” the principal added.
 
 
