BENGALURU: Senior advocate  , who served as special public prosecutor and special counsel in the disproportionate assets case, involving former chief minister   who died in December 2016, and AIADMK general secretary   is happy. After 13 years, his efforts have paid off. “A conviction is not a matter of happiness for a public prosecutor, but of satisfaction. With its order, the Supreme Court has sent out a loud and clear message that money, power and influence will have no bearing on the judiciary,“ he said in an interview. Excerpts:

 
 
 I learnt that as a public prosecutor it is an uphill task to stand tall in the face of people who wield influence, money and power. As special public prosecutor, there was a lot of political pressure on me to soft-pedal in the case. While they could not ask me to resign, they put pressure on me to resign one of the two posts I held -SPP and advocate general.Eventually, I was forced to choose one.
 
 
 
 Circumstances forced the government to come to me, a year after my resignation. They told me I was the only person who could give a written submission on its behalf when it was challenged in the high court. Unfortunately, the HC miscalculated the assets and a recording of acquittal was made, making it difficult for us to argue in the SC. Subsequently, I was asked to argue the case and I am a satisfied man with the verdict today.
 
 
 I do not think so. Yes, I would have been happy if the SC had given its verdict within two months of the appeal but then Jayalalithaa was hospitalised.I thought it would be inhumane for us to appeal at that time. Even after that the SC had not picked up the case, and that is why I asked my colleague   to raise it with the SC.
 
 
 
 One, people with money and influence cannot perpetually escape the long arm of the law. Second, even a judge at the district level can take on and convict a chief minister and her powerful aides. It has restored faith in the judiciary for me.
 
 
 I refrain from entering into the political aspects of cases. I only believe in legal views, and have no political affiliations. I can only say the verdict was not given in quick time.
 
