PANAJI: Educationist and former chairman of Goa Board of  ,   is coming out with a new book ‘Goenchem Saunsarikikaran’ (Globalization of Goa), which explores the social, religious, linguistic, sociological and cultural transformation that Goa underwent in the 1500s and 1600s, in the light of Christ Purana, the 17th century Christian epic on the coming of Jesus Christ. 

 Written in Devanagiri  , the book delves into the religious condition in Europe during the 15th and 16th centuries and its effect on Goa. It also talks about the beginning and end of Portuguese colonies in Goa, the conquest of the Isle of Goa by   in 1510AD, the arrival of the Portuguese, the encounter between Hindu and Christian cultures, the establishment of Goan Inquisition, the three phases of Christianization of the Old Conquest and the policy of conversion and the language policy of the Church.
 
 “People are bitter about that period. I have given a different colour to it. Instead of war or conquest of Goa I have looked upon the encounter between East and West as a process of globalization,” Amonkar says, adding, “I would like people to consider the encounter in the context of indirect influence of Renaissance, Reformation and counter Reformation, not just conversions.”
 
 Amonkar has also focused on Fr  , SJ, the Vaikuntha model he used in Christ Purana, the ovi metre (quatrain), the poetic metre used in narrative poems in Marathi, the poetic beauty in it, the status of Christ Purana in Marathi literature today and its cultural background and indianisation. 
 
 Fr Stephens, the author of Christ Purana published in 1616 understood the history of the old conquests, where a large number of people had switched from Shaivism to Vaishanvism. “He used the Vaikuntha model because he knew people would be familiar with it. Instead of referring to the Roman calendar he used the old Hindu calendar in the book,” says Amonkar.
 
 In his book, Amonkar will reproduce a rare copy of the letter written by Stephens in his own handwriting on December 5, 1608 to his Superior General Fr Acquaviva Claudius, SJ, expressing his desire to publish Christian material in the script of the local language for spiritual advancement. The book also reproduces the permission from the Inquisitors to publish Christ Purana. 
 
 The book along with the Konkani translation of Christ Purana will be released on March 22 at Institute Menezes Braganza.
 
