VISAKHAPATNAM: With the Telugu community among the largest   in the US contributing to tech and innovation, it was but natural that the 'Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Investment Meet' dedicated a separate session on Saturday to deliberate on how the   would shape up in the Trump era. 

 Lisa Curtis, a senior research fellow at the Asian Studies Center of the Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy in the US, pointed out that the US was certainly not going to shut its doors to the world but the mantra now would be to make a transition from 'Free Trade' to 'Free and Fair Trade'. 
 
 However, she was also quick to add that one need not over   as they were directed to his supporters and constituencies. While she said it would be hard to predict how the Indo-US bilateral relations in multiple sectors such as IT and energy shaped up, the collaboration between India and the US in the fight against terrorism would strengthen.
 
 "The one area, where I am fairly confident that the US and India will continue to work together is to stabilise Afghanistan and (to eliminate) the terrorism that emanates from Pakistan... But in order to achieve our objectives in Afghanistan, the new team in US will quickly understand that we need a new approach towards Pakistan," she said.
 
 This apart, she said that India-US ties would only improve as India was a 'strategic' partner. "India has become critical to the US's   policy. Things like the   signed in 2015 remain extremely valid and now that we see Trump administration's approach to China...the momentum of the relationship (with India) will continue," she added.
 
 Stating the concerns of the IT industry, former Nasscom chairman and Cyient executive chairman BVR Mohan Reddy stated that the H-1B issue continued to bother Indian IT companies. While pointing out that the issue should not be perceived as an immigration issue but as a trade issue, he said if free movement of goods was allowed across borders, there should not be restrictions on movement of people from the IT industry either. Given these issues, IT firms were now gearing up to tweak their business models, he added.
 
 He asserted that Indian IT companies would have to reassert that it had been creating jobs in the US and contributing to its economy by way of paying taxes and helping other sectors reduce costs by providing solutions. 
 
 He also added that in the Trump era, Indian tech sector, particularly startups, could deepen their relationship with US companies as the new technologies such as 3D printing, artificial intelligence, virtual reality and augmented reality offer great potential for business growth.
 
