THIRUVANANTHAPURAMA: day after taking a lenient view towards private engineering college managements’ request for permission to convert all vacant seats in government quota to NRI, the fee regulatory committee headed by justice R Rajendrababu here on Saturday quashed the order in this regard and clarified that   would remain as 15% as it were in the previous years.

 The commission had earlier agreed to the Kerala self-financing engineering college managements’ association’s claim that AICTE handbook on admission to engineering colleges contains a clause, which permits the colleges to convert all vacant seats into NRI quota. “The claim appeared to be valid as the particular clause in the AICTE handbook can be construed to justify their claims. But a closer look at the provisions has proven that the colleges cannot be given unbridled right to convert all the vacant seats in government quota to NRI quota. Though only 5% seats are supposed to be converted into NRI quota, the state government has been permitting the managements to use 15% of seats under NRI category. In this context, the maximum seats the colleges could use as NRI quota would remain 15% as it were in the past,” Rajendrababu said.
 
 The lukewarm response of students to engineering courses in self-financing sector was the major reason that prompted the self- financing engineering college management association to explore the AICTE provisions further and ensure admission of candidates who did not appear or clear the entrance examination conducted by the state government. 
 
 According to preliminary statistics, around 25,000   in government quota were remaining vacant in the state while the admission procedure for the year is about to be completed soon. Many colleges in self-financing sector have failed to attract even a single student to many of the engineering branches. Last year, around 33% of seats in engineering colleges in the state remained vacant. This time, the vacant seats are expected to be closer to 40%. In neighbouring states such as Karnataka and  , over 40% seats remained vacant in private engineering colleges last year.
 
