CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has not just deployed its workers to keep a vigil on EVM strongrooms, but has also taken a lead in filing complaints with the   (EC) against poll-related violations. The party has made complaints on the basis of data collected from the “surveillance system” it put in place through an army of 15,000 volunteers in Punjab.

 While most material collected from the surveillance pertains to distribution of liquor and cash, the party has also brought to EC’s notice circulation of a forged letter, allegedly written on a stolen letterhead of AAP. The letter announces Sanjay Singh, in-charge of AAP affairs in Punjab, as the next chief minister.
 
 AAP’s state legal cell head Jastej Singh said on Wednesday, “Where the party sent over a dozen letters to the EC to red flag violations of code of conduct, it also brought several ‘illegal’ activities of rival parties, mostly a visual through WhatsApp, or by telephonicly alerting the poll staff.”
 
 There were instances like party volunteers alerting about 10-12 persons distributing liquor in Barnala Kalan village of Nawanshahr, labourers allegedly held captive in factories in Ludhiana on poll eve to stop them from exercising their franchise and an SUV allegedly distributing money at Gandhi camp in Batala. 
 
 In Sangrur, where AAP volunteers caught a car with liquor and cash and alleged police inaction, the party alerted the poll panel. In Bathinda, AAP workers alleged fake SAD votes. In Jalandhar, it accused a BSP sarpanch of picking up a fight and trespass bid.
 
 “Following a verbal complaint by AAP against Punjab finance minister   on February 3, the EC decided to deploy its vehicle to follow the SAD leader in his constituency,” said Jastej.
 
 An AAP leader from Delhi, who was a member of team handling the control room set up on polling day, added, “A team of 15,000 volunteers was trained to use these devices and capture any suspicious activity on cameras. They either passed the information directly to the authorities or routed the more sensitive information through the (party) candidates or the control room.” 
 
 Kamaldeep, a party volunteer from Bathinda, meanwhile, claimed, “Money distribution is so quick that by the time the authorities reach the spot, it is difficult to establish the crime. However, the idea was to have preventive effect, so that the practice could be checked.”
 
