YAVATMAL: Did the state government rely on fabricated documents submitted by   (YMC) officials to denotify   in the city?   coordinator Mahesh Pawar alleged in a press conference on Sunday that YMC officials submitted fabricated resolutions to save liquor vends operating within 500 metres of these highways.

 Pawar has demanded a probe into the affairs of YMC and action under section 308 of the Maharashtra Nagar Parishad, Nagar Panchayat Audhyogik Naagari Adhiniyam, 1966, against chief officer (CO) Sudam Dhope.
 
 Pawar said the CO has attached a copy of the resolution of YMC General Body meeting allegedly held on October 14, 2016, to claim that the house has approved the proposal to take responsibility of the maintenance and other related works of the national and state highways passing through the city limits.
 
 “In fact, no such meeting was held on that date. Former councillors have disowned being a part of such a meeting, since they had no notice of the alleged meeting,” Pawar said. He added the chief officer has flouted rules relating to meeting procedures as prescribed under the law.
 
 The rules say that municipal authorities have to include all policy matters, especially those touching upon financial matters, on the main agenda of the notice. However, the CO claims to have adopted a resolution listed under the head of ‘subject coming up with the permission of the chair’, which is void, Pawar said.
 
 YMC has a debt burden of Rs39 crore, with development works held up. No new development work has been proposed due to lack of funds, and salaries of employees are not paid regularly. “Yet, the CO has expedited the proposal of taking over highways stretching over 13.450km, which would requires crores for annual maintenance. The government GR itself makes it clear that it would not incur a single paisa on maintenance of these roads,” said Pawar.
 
 “How will the municipal council meet the expenses incurred due to the reckless decision of the CO and a handful of others in the administration?” Pawar asked. He accused the YMC officials of doing this merely to save liquor shops in the city.
 
 Pawar said the ulterior motive was also borne out by the fact that the CO excluded only State Highway 300, leading to Akola Bazar from local Sharada Chowk, from this notification. There are no liquor shops along this stretch of the highway.
 
 Pawar has also raised questions on the role of district guardian minister in the matter, alleging pressure from political quarters to rescue the liquor business in the city.
 
 Yerawar has denied the allegations, and said the original proposal for denotification of highways was made some time in 2011. He added that the government simply expedited the pending proposal in the light of the Apex Court judgment.
 
