PUNE:   Bhaben Saikia, arrested for the murder of   software engineer   OP, told his interrogators on Tuesday that his mother had asked him to immediately surrender before the police when he called her in Assam on Sunday evening following the crime. 

 A police officer told TOI on Tuesday, “Saikia, who is very close to his mother, had called her as well as his maternal uncle to tell them about the murder. Saikia revealed that his mother asked him to immediately surrender. She even told him that if he did not have the courage to do so, he should come to Assam and she would accompany him to the police.”
 
 Saikia has maintained during his interrogation that he killed Rasila as he did not want to lose his job which paid him Rs 15,000 a month. Prior to joining the security agency, Saikia had worked in the tea gardens in Assam where he and his mother lived in utter poverty. His father had abandoned them.
 
 Saikia shifted to Pune in 2009 and initially earned Rs 2,000 a month. “He worked at the Ranjangaon MIDC for a few years before joining the security agency that posted him at Infosys,” an officer from the Hinjewadi police said.
 
 The officer said Saikia told the police that he was enraged by Rasila’s reprimand for staring at her and her warning that she would be mailing a complaint against him to his higher-ups. Saikia also revealed that after killing Rasila, he decided to end his life by leaping from the ninth floor. “However, he changed his mind after seeing a securityman on the floor,” the officer said.
 
 The officer said it was very strange that no other security personnel in the company noticed Saikia’s blood-soaked shoes while he was leaving the premises after completing his shift at 7pm. Saikia had blood on his shoes after repeatedly kicking Rasila’s face.
 
 On Tuesday evening, Saikia was taken to the Sassoon hospital for medical tests and also for taking his blood samples. “We will send the blood samples to the lab for analysis,” the officer said.
 
 
 
 
 Rasila’s father Raju O on Monday night went to the spot on the ninth floor of the Infosys building at Hinjewadi where his daughter was murdered. He was accompanied by M V Parameshwaran, chairman of social welfare, Kairali charitable foundation.
 
 Parameshwaran said, “After completing the rituals in Kerala, Raju will come to Pune. We will decide the next course of action after that.”
 
 Rasila’s body was handed over to Raju after the autopsy. “The body was taken to Mumbai by road and then to Kerala in a morning flight,” Parameshwaran said.
 
 
