RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh   on Monday passed a proposal seeking complete ban on the sale of liquor in the state during a divisional-level 'Sankalp Shivir' at Tedesara in Rajnandgaon. 

 During the camp, Congress party workers included the demand to frame the rules and policies separately for the tribal community as per their language and culture in the proposal.   president Phulo Devi Netam presented the proposal during the camp. The proposal was unanimously passed in the camp with Lok Sabha member from Durg Tamradhwaj Sahu, former minister Mohammad Akbar, leaders and workers extending their support.
 
    ( ) general secretary and Chhattisgarh in-charge BK Hariprasad lashed out at   government of the state, stating that the government's plan to open liquor shops in residential colonies and villages will have a bad impact on the young generation. 
 
 He urged the Congress workers to work together against the state government's anti-people decision and win people's trust so that the party could come to power in the state in 2018 assembly elections.
 
 Addressing the gathering,   (CPCC) president Bhupesh Baghel said that the state government is exploiting farmers by not providing them compensation for their losses. 
 
 Baghel also urged his partymen to work with unity to uproot the BJP government. Asserting the inefficiency of the ruling government, Baghel said that poverty in the state has exceeded 40 percent.
 
 He also pointed out that the state is facing a shortage of 50,000 school teachers and around 3,500 government schools have been closed down. But the government is more focused to open liquor shops and has no vision to upgrade education standard in the state. AICC secretary Bhakt Charan Das, AICC coordinator for Chhattisgarh Anil Sharma, former Union minister of state Dr Charan Das Mahant, Rajya Sabha member Chhaya Verma, Guru Rudra Kumar, Dhanendra Sahu, Ravindra Choubey, MP Tamradhwaj Sahu, Satyanarayan Sharma, Karuna Shukla and other senior party leaders addressed the gathering. They took a pledge to try to form Congress government in 2018 assembly polls. Vikas Upadhay and other workers participated in the camp in large numbers.
 
