NEW DELHI: Two days after a 26-year-old woman was raped, robbed and assaulted inside Deer Park in south Delhi, the police have identified the   as a teenager aged 17 or 18. 

 Police also suspect that he has another juvenile as an associate. Both live around Humayunpur, south Delhi, and often hang around in   at night. Police raided their homes on Monday evening but didn’t find them. Around 15 police teams had questioned around 25 people and were raiding different places at the time of filing of this report. A top officer said they were certain both would be caught by night. 
 
 There were two main leads that helped the police crack the case. The primary line of probe was aimed at identifying a man with a head injury as the woman had hit her assailant on the head during the scuffle, sources said. Police went to clinics and private doctors in south Delhi to find out if a man had come with a head wound to get treated. 
 
 The second line of probe centred around the man who had accompanied the older sister of the survivor and who was seen in CCTV footage. His location was first identified to be around CR Park and Greater Kailash area. All beat officers were provided with CCTV grabs. 
 
 The police also traced the iPhone of the woman that was snatched by the rapist. It was last found to be active in Hauz Khas, suggesting that the assailant was a local. 
 
 On Monday, the survivor’s statement was recorded under Section 164 of CrPC before a magistrate in which she has narrated the entire sequence of events as mentioned in the FIR.
 
 According to the statement, she and her sister were walking out of a pub when they met the two men. The elder sister began to walk ahead with one of them. After going some distance, the woman told her sister that the man would drop her home. They left in an autorickshaw.
 
 The other man, meanwhile, convinced the younger sister to accompany him to the park nearby before dropping her home. He told her that he had parked his car on the other side of the park and that they could take a short-cut through it. They scaled the wall and he took her to a lake where a tiff ensued, she claimed. She further claimed that the man beat her up and then sexually assaulted her.
 
 Both sisters, who are from Nagaland, are being counselled by women experts.
 
 
