PATNA: Four days after the alleged gang-rape and killing of class X student Reena Kumari (name changed) at   hostel in  , her mother Kusumi Devi (35) on Wednesday demanded the   to her daughter’s assailants.

 The school, meant for Dalit/Mahadalit girl students, is located at Majirabad on Mahua road in Vaishali, while Reena hailed from Fatehpur in Turki block of Muzaffarpur district, 45km from the school. After Reena, Kusumi is left with three daughters and a son.
 
 Kusumi, from the ‘musahar’ caste in the Mahadalit category, accused a schoolteacher, a guard and at least four other people of being involved in the crime. She also alleged that a senior police official of Vaishali had visited her residence and offered Rs8 lakh to keep her mouth shut. 
 
 Addressing media persons with Meena Tiwari, state secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA), on her side, Kusumi said the assailants on January 7 night not only gang-raped Reena, but also stuffed an undergarment in her private parts to prevent bleeding. They also slashed her breasts, abdomen, back and throat with a sharp weapon, probably a sickle, Kusumi alleged, adding that they then threw her body in the drain beside the hostel and covered it with garbage.
 
 One vikas mitra of the village informed Kusumi about Reena’s death. She rushed to the school and took her daughter’s body in possession as the other hostel inmates had laid a seize on it, she said. “The way they killed my daughter, a similar treatment be meted out to them,” Kusumi said, maintaining that she neither recognized the schoolteacher nor the guards of the school and the other “four or five” people who were partners in crime.
 
 “My daughter was very bold, brave and popular in the school. She was of strong built and also played football. Reena had been declared the school’s sportsperson of last year,” Kusumi said, adding: “Her rape and subsequent killing would not have been the act of one person. She would have easily fought out her way to safety, if her assailant had been only one person. She was gang-raped and then killed by them.” 
 
 Meena, meanwhile, announced a candle march and demonstrations before the offices of Vaishali and Muzaffarpur DMs on Thursday. She also demanded a high-level probe and Rs20 lakh compensation to the next of kin of Reena.
 
