BHOPAL: A   court has issued a notice to UK-headquartered banknote manufacture De La Rue in connection with a recovery suit filed by the Government Security   Mill (SPM) in Hoshangabad, about 80km south of Bhopal. 

 The district judge of Hoshangabad is hearing a suit seeking recovery of Rs 11 crore from the foreign company for allegedly supplying substandard paper for printing Rs 100, Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. “The paper supplied in 2016 was of inferior quality and the company itself confirmed this after inspection. The court has sent a notice to the company in London,” said SPM’s lawyer Sushil Goyal. 
 
 This supply was made before demonetisation but it couldn’t be confirmed if any of it was meant for the new Rs 500 notes. The case will be heard in the second week of June, said Goyal.
 
 After demonetisation, several political parties had alleged that the Union government was partnering with a banknote papermaking company that was named in the Panama Papers. In December 2016, AAP’s Delhi convenor Dilip Pandey alleged that De La Rue was investigated by CBI in 2010-2011. “If the stated purpose of demonetisation was elimination of fake currency, isn’t the government increasing the risk of counterfeit by allowing a blacklisted company to supply paper? The government must come clean on De La Rue and the circumstances under which the company was removed from the blacklist,” Pandey had said, alleging that De La Rue was also investigated by UK’s Serious Fraud Office. Following these allegations, finance minister Arun Jaitley and Pandey had a spat on Twitter.
 
 On December 6, 2016, De La Rue responded to the allegations with a press release, saying: “De La Rue categorically refutes the defamatory and malicious allegations about its business published in Indian media. De La Rue is not supplying paper for printing of Indian currency and we are not associated with printing of currency in India at present in any form. De La Rue has received no notice nor are we aware that we are blacklisted in India. De La Rue does not supply currency paper and is not printing currency for Pakistan and would never supply currency paper manufactured for one country to another.” 
 
 The statement pointed out that the firm is the world’s “leading commercial banknote printer”, supporting 140 countries. “The company is listed on London Stock Exchange, is a founder member of the   and operates to the highest ethical standards. De La Rue will take appropriate steps in India to protect its reputation as the trusted currency printer around the world,” it said.
 
