VISAKHAPATNAM: Panchayat raj minister Nara Lokesh’s visit has given a new lease of life to TDP as he tried to speak to cadres and assured them nominated posts in a month or two.

 Lokesh, who was earlier not spontaneous in speeches and confined to party affairs, has matured in oration, say TDP leaders. Vizag is his second official district tour following  . 
 
 He participated in various programmes and public meetings at Anakapalli and Payakaraopeta often referring to the youth as anna (brothers) and elderly women and men as peddamma (auntie) and pedananna (uncle).
 
 His tireless efforts and patience has attracted the public. Lokesh exuberated confidence, senior leader Dr   said.
 
 “Experience will turn him into a good politician in the coming days like his father. He is already on track. He has to enhance his speed. He also has the advantage as his cadres of his age group are now taking over the reins. All the senior politicians were once youth leaders and of the same age as Naidu and they travelled along with him through three decades,” Ahmad said. 
 
 During his interaction with NREGS workers at Bayyavaram in   constituency,   asked the collector and MLA to provide drinking water facility, better road connectivity to villages and also insurance facility to a deceased worker’s family. His ability to take decisions on the spot has helped him score among commoners. 
 
 “He may turn into a good leader in the future if he keeps taking prompt decisions,” said NREGS worker P Satyavati. His speeches were short and confined to the problems of the local people. They had clarity,   P Govind told TOI. 
 
 “It would take another six months for him to carve a place for himself in the hearts of the people. He is a tremendous crowd puller. When cops tried to clear the NREGS workers raising concern over drinking water problems, he requested the police not to push them and let them speak,” Anakapalli MP M Srinivasa Rao said. 
 
 With all humility, Lokesh has accepted the failures of the government and attempted to resolve the issues. This had a huge impact on the people, a senior TDP leader said. However, now he needs to focus on improving the speech to attack the opposition.
 
 
