BENGALURU:  , one of the largest malls in the country located in Malleswaram, West Bengaluru, wore a deserted look on Tuesday. Trollies that carried shoppers' goods through the day stood idle in the basement. Security guards stood at all the three entrances next to boards saying the mall had been closed for maintenance.

 The mall was shut after a portion of a wall collapsed, injuring two persons on Monday .The BBMP has withdrawn the occupancy certificate in the wake of the mishap, saying the mall can open only after experts certify that the structure is safe. Avid shoppers who were not aware of the closure, though, made a beeline to them all through Tuesday .
 
 Nazima Begum, 22, and her friend, who had come all the way from Nagawara, were disappointed to learn that the mall had been closed. “We planned to shop till evening and sign off after watching a movie, for which we had prebooked,“ she said. The   at the mall too draws film buffs in droves, screening the latest blockbusters of various languages.
 
 Many movie buffs who had covered long distances to come watch their favourite films too had to go back after looking at the board which said `We are undergoing maintenance. Will be opening soon'.
 
  and his college friends had booked tickets for a Telugu movie starring their favourite hero, Chiranjeevi.“We bunked class to watch the movie. At the mall entrance, a security person said we might have to wait for ticket refunds as well,“ he said.
 
 The mall is a big hit in the city with serious shoppers as well as rubbernecks roaming the city. Footfall during weekends and holidays run into thousands. On December 23 last, it recorded a footfall of over 1lakh, indicating that shoppers are shrugging off the demonetization blues. One question most visitors posed to the guards was when the mall would reopen.
 
 However, the mall authorities themselves had little clue about the reopening either.
 
 “Since morning, hundreds of people have come inquiring about the mall. Many of them had little idea about the wall collapse. This has been a major inconvenience to many . Hope the inquiry gets over soon and the mall restarts its operations,“ said a security guard, on the condition of anonymity .
 
