GREATER NOIDA: There was bonhomie in the air when a group of African and Indian students came together to celebrate Indo-African brotherhood, and forget the shameful incident that had taken place in the heart of   city just nine days ago, in which at least seven students from various African countries were indiscriminately thrashed by roving mobs of thousands of locals.

 The 90-minute   match — the real interest in which stemmed from the strongly-worded rebuke of India’s “xenophobia and racism” by several African envoys just two days ago, during which they also called for a probe of the incident by the   — started after a cultural treat which had flavours not just of Africa and India, but Nepal and Bhutan as well.
 
 While a Bangladeshi student entertained the audience with a Hindi song, a Nigerian student gave a laughter pill by mimicking his teachers and African friends in Hindi. Five students from Nepal and Bhutan performed a special dance sequence accompanies by a Bhutanese song.
 
 Identities were dissolved as the match begun with 22 students of   stepping into the field in black jerseys. Chancellor’s 11 and Embassy 11 — which had an equal composition of four students from Africa, one each from Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan, and four from India — gave a gripping display of ball skills that kept supporters of both teams engaged.
 
 The audience, which included representatives from embassies of Sudan, Nigeria,   and Senegal, relished every goal and pass witnessed at the ground. Although Chancellor’s 11 scored the first goal of the match, Embassy 11 tightened up after that, scoring three goals to win the match 3-1.
 
 Over a thousand spectators in the stands — some with seats, others open mounds covered with grass — enjoyed the match played in the lush green football ground of the university, which continued even as raindrops drizzled from the sky.
 
 Second Counsellor from Embassy of Senegal Papa Assane Mbengue, Deputy Head of Mission at Embassy of Sudan Osman Mohammed, education attaché at Embassy of Somalia Amal   were among the special guests who interacted with the students.
 
 An exchange of hugs between the players of the two teams at the end of the match was the perfect end to the evening, with university officials and the district magistrate delivering messages of harmony. “Whatever happened was wrong. When we visit Nigeria, we are extended a warm welcome with a ‘Namaste’. This message should resonate everywhere,” Sharda University chancellor P K Gupta said.
 
 “This match helped us bond, erasing the bad memories. There were some spectators who came to meet us and apologised for what had happened. That was very touching and I think if these interactions continue, it will help bridge the gap between the people. Racism is prevalent in India, but it can be defeated with events like these,” said Sharda University management student Umar Najeeb from Nigeria, who played for the winning Embassy 11.
 
 District magistrate N P Singh said he would organise more meetings between RWAs and members of the African community to encourage mutual understanding.
 
 
