NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday pulled up   for not taking a clear stand on whether lawmakers be barred for life from contesting elections after being convicted in heinous offenses.

 A bench headed by Justice   raised question on how can Election Commission refuse to take stand on the crucial issue meant for decriminalising the election process.
 
 The bench repeatedly asked the lawyer representing the Election Commission to brief its stand but the lawyer responded saying the commission had not taken stand on the issue.
 
 The Election Commission had in its affidavit supported a PIL for setting up special courts to decide criminal cases related to people’s representatives, public servants and members of judiciary within a year and to debar the convicted persons from legislature for life.
 
 But the commission clarified that its affidavit supported the plea petitioner but it did not take stand on barring lawmakers for life after conviction.
 
 On March 3, the Supreme Court had granted the government and the Election Commission the last opportunity to spell out their stand on a plea for debarring convicts from contesting polls for life.
 
 “It is pertinent to mention that the answering respondent ( ) has held several meetings with the Secretary of  , legislative department of the government. It is pertinent to mention that most of the recommendations /proposals of the answering respondent have been endorsed by the   in their 244th and 255th reports. However, most of the proposals/recommendations made by the answering respondent are either pending consideration by the UoI or have not been approved for the time being,” the affidavit said.
 
 It was submitted that accompanying PIL, to the extent of relief claimed under prayer (a) and (b), was not adversarial and answering respondent No.1 ( ) supported the cause espoused by the petitioner.
 
 “Apart from terrorism and naxalism, the most serious problem our country is facing is extensive corruption and criminalisation of politics. In executive and judiciary, when a person is convicted for any criminal offence, he/she is suspended automatically and debarred from his services for life. This rule, however, is applied differently in case of convicted persons in the legislature,” the petition said.
 
