BENGALURU: More than a year after the attack on   air base, Indian   (IAF) has finally ordered a court of inquiry (CoI) into the matter, which as per its practice should’ve been the first reaction.

 The CoI is being presided over by Air Vice Marshal Amit Dev, who is the Advance Headquarters Commander for the Southern Command. The inquiry has been going on for the past two weeks.
 
 Sources privy to developments in the Air Headquarters told TOI that Air Chief Marshal   had expressed the need for a CoI in the backdrop of the final   (NIA) report submitted to Air Headquarters pointing to lack of evidence to show the presence of six terrorists as was initially claimed by IAF and National Security Guards (NSG). The NIA report clearly says that there were only four terrorists and not six.
 
 “The report has said that no gunpowder residue or other material evidence suggesting the presence of two other terrorists has been found by the investigators,” a senior officer said. Three days after TOI sought an official response from IAF, on the findings of the NIA report and the move to order a CoI, IAF has neither confirmed nor denied anything.
 
 A senior officer, who has been part of several missions for IAF, said: “A CoI is ordered even when a soldier brings back just one empty shell less than the number of bullets sanctioned to him from a firing range, it is surprising that there is no inquiry into this attack.”
 
 While the operations at the Pathankot air base began in the early hours of January 2, after terrorists were found to be present in the domestic area of the base at about 2.30am, it ended in the early hours of January 3. However, after the operation was thought to have ended, the NSG, sources said, suspected that there were two more terrorists in the residential quarters.
 
 “Initial investigation reports quoted NSG as having said that there were at least two more men there, which prompted action,” the source said. NSG had set the entire building on fire using diesel to kill the two terrorists.
 
 However, NIA has failed to find any evidence suggesting the presence of these two additional terrorists, which has been a bone of contention between IAF & NSG and the NIA, sources said. 
 
