BHUBANESWAR: In a major goof up during the   conducted by the   (CHSE) at least fourteen colleges on Tuesday across the state find chemistry questions given to examinees on a day scheduled for mathematics. The exam centres managed the day with photocopies of   from nearby examination centres and some supplied with extra copies from the   (EMH). School and mass education minister   announced the rescheduling of the Chemistry exam from March 16 to March 30 at 2pm.

 The CHSE authorities blamed staff at the printing press where the question papers were printed, packed and sealed for the blunder. “The printing press where question papers are printed also looks into packaging as per the centres, subjects and schedule of the examination. The question paper packets are sent to the examination hubs directly from the press and kept there amidst tight security. There might be some mistake during the packing of questions at the press. An enquiry has been ordered into the matter,” said CHSE controller of examination  .
 
 Sources said, question papers packets were opened at 9.30 am in the presence of an official from district administration, superintendent and three other officers. “Just before distributing the questions among the students at 9.45 am the officials noticed that chemistry is written on them. We immediately informed the EMH and council authorities about the problem,” said Debashis Jena, principal of BJB Junior College in Gadarodanga village in Puri district. 
 
 Similar problems were reported from examination centres in 10 different districts including Balasore, Balangir, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Nuapada, Koraput, Puri, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh.
 
 “I got the shock of my life when I found Chemistry question paper as I had prepared for mathematics. Nobody knew what to do and we sat idle in the examination hall for around 90 minutes, after which we got photo copies of mathematics questions. The paper did not go well,” said an examinee of Niali College.
 
 The incident caused resentment among parents and students, who demanded re-examination of mathematics paper. “This is an example of sheer callousness and negligence of CHSE authorities. How can they mess up with the careers of hundreds of students? Who will be responsible for the stress and anxiety students underwent. And this is not for the first time, CHSE had done such blunders earlier also. We demand re-examination of math paper,” said Minaketan Sahu, father of a student.
 
 The council had overhauled the examination system and introduced EMH after leak of physics and chemistry question papers in 2013. This year total 3,80,707 students of 1504 colleges are appearing the annual Plus-II examination in arts, science and commerce streams. As many as 1106 examination centres and 202 EMHs have been set up across the state.
 
