NEW DELHI: Students turned up in large numbers to vote for the   Student’s Union (DUSU) elections on Tuesday for a violence-free campus.

 This year, the polls were mired in controversy and directives of   (NGT) over littering were flouted blatantly by students’ groups. Posters and pamphlets were seen till the polling day.
 
 The elections were touted to be a tough fight between NSUI and ABVP with AISA garnering a few more votes than before. But the high court, while giving its approval for the votes to be counted on Wednesday, said that the results will be subject to the outcome of a petition filed by NSUI presidential candidate Rocky Tuseed, who had challenged the rejection of his nomination.
 
 Unlike last year, where only 36.2% of students cast their ballot — a turnout that was the lowest since 2011 — this year 42.8% college students cast their votes. An election volunteer at Miranda House, Arti, said that there was an increase in voters by around 20%-30% in the college.
 
 “Most of the girls came early in the morning to cast their votes. The polling booths opened at 8am and long lines were witnessed there,” said Sarita, another election volunteer.
 
 Not all students were happy with the arrangements. Raghuvansh, a third-year student from Ramjas, complained that the machines didn’t have braille options, so he was forced to depend on a friend to press the button.
 
 Several students were clueless about the DUSU elections or the candidates contesting for the four posts. “My friends and I came to vote for our centre’s election. None of us know the DUSU candidates personally, nor the promises made by them,” said Shreya, a second-year law student at Campus Law Centre. Another student, Shaurya Singh of Hindu College, said that he was going for NOTA.
 
 Congress functionary and former DUSU president, Ragini Khanna, who was there in North Campus, said that many students are just concerned about their college elections. “For them, the college candidates are more important as it affects them personally and they know the contestants. Students vote for DUSU candidates as policies are made by them,” she said.
 
 Many also talked about cleanliness and said they won’t vote for people who dirty the campus and “destroy the name of our university.”  , a first-year student at Ramjas, said, “Parents also feel bad about the colleges being dirty.”
 
 Many said they voted for ABVP. “They were visible through the year and didn’t come to us only during elections,” said Vidushi Pandey, a Hindu College student.
 
 The counting of votes will start at 8.30am on Wednesday. The results are expected around noon.
 
 
