CHENNAI: Two days after former   chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s aide 
  as 
  , senior party leader and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M   on Monday urged her to take charge as the chief minister. 

 Thambidurai, who was rumoured to be one of the possible choices of the party for the post of the chief minister after the death of Jayalalithaa, said in a statement: “Respected Chinnamma ( ) has the intelligence, capacity and love for the people, love for the party workers and care for the party cadre, as Amma had. It is my strong belief that it is very important that respected Chinnamma has to shoulder the responsibility of the chief minister of Tamil Nadu.” 
 
 “I humbly appeal to respected Chinnamma to take charge as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu immediately, by acceding to the wishes and requests of party workers and cadres like me,” he said.
 
 “When we were very anxious and worried as to what would happen to the party and to the crores of party cadre after the sad demise of Amma, who had been the general secretary of the party for 27 long years, Chinnamma has come to rescue all of us as a  ,” Thambidurai said.
 
 "Likewise, all of us have the unshakeable faith and confidence that the 
  would continue to implement several welfare schemes for the people of Tamil Nadu," he said.
 
 Though the Lok Sabha elections is more than two years away, the deputy speaker wanted the party to function very effectively. “When the country is going to face parliamentary election in two years, the   has to function very effectively to get the wholehearted support of the people, and to continue to win the election, as was done by Jayalalithaa and MG Ramachandran. Therefore, I emphatically request that respected Chinnamma has to immediately take over the leadership of the government, as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu,” he said.
 
 Thambidurai said the address made by Sasikala for party cadre on Saturday had melted the “hearts of all of us.” 
 
 “The points in the address of respected Chinnamma, with all sincerity and responsibility, have made us feel happy that the task of taking forward the party has been handed over to the right person. We were very happy that the first address of Chinnamma has created confidence in the minds of all of us that the political journey, started by Perarignar Anna and followed by MGR and Amma, will be taken forward for several generations from now,” the deputy speaker said.
 
 He said that people would not accept two people as party general secretary and chief minister. “We have seen that people in India have not accepted the situation where the leadership of the party is in one hand and the leadership of the government is in another hand. Such governments have lost their credibility among the people, when the leadership of the party and the leadership of the government were in the hands of two different persons,” Thambidurai said.
 
 
