KOLKATA: The city is on the verge of taking a major step ahead in terms of   that could place it in the same league as Mumbai, Indore, Chennai and Delhi. As many as five private hospitals in Kolkata have sought permission to conduct heart transplants and one is set to receive the nod this year. An inspection has already been carried out by a state health department team and the decks are being cleared for the procedure to be conducted at the hospital. Kolkatans have to now wait for months, often years, for a   and travel to other cities for it.

 “We are now going through the formalities and a clearance could be issued soon. This will indeed be a big step towards making the state self-sufficient in   transplants,” said a state health department official. But time is running out for the city and the state, felt some transplant experts. Cardiac surgeon and transplant expert Tapas Ray Choudhury pointed out Bengal patients have suffered for years due to the lack of heart transplant facilities in Kolkata. 
 
 “Mumbai has seen more than 150 heart transplants over the last 5-6 years. It has helped to make the procedure popular and encouraged doctors to offer it as an option to patients. Since Kolkata has no such facility, doctors hesitate to recommend it and patients are scared to even consider the option. But Kolkata has the infrastructure to do heart transplants and it would have been so much better had we got the nod earlier,” said Ray Choudhury.
 
 So far, Kolkata has seen 7 cadaver transplants since 2012. The last one was done on December 25, 2016. On November 8, the city police had created a green corridor for a donor to be transported from a Howrah hospital to SSKM Hospital in Kolkata. The transplant, however, had failed. “While 2016 was a dream year, we have now hit a lean patch. This was perhaps waiting to happen since the awareness campaign has not been a consistent one. We need more intensive efforts to reach out to the families of brain dead patients and counsel them,” said Saurabh Koley, consultant, Belle Vue Hospital, who has been actively associated with the campaign.
 
 A successful heart transplant in Kolkata can dramatically change the organ donation scenario in Bengal, felt Ray Choudhury. “All we need are three-four successful transplants to begin with. It will be a huge fillip for organ donation and encourage scores to seek transplants and donate organs,” he said.
 
 Aditi Kishore Sarkar, state nodal officer in-charge of transplants, said: “While we need to step up awareness, successful transplants are also a matter of chance. Several things need to fall in place for a transplant to happen and it’s not always possible to control that. Even if we can’t repeat the success of 2016, we can definitely to look forward to a restart. It’s only a matter of time before we have another one.”
 
 The first cadaver transplant in Kolkata was done in 2012, which kickstarted an organization called the Bimal Karmarkar Foundation — named after the first donor. “We have been working in coordination with the state government. Doctors, paramedical staff and counsellors are being trained. But we must appreciate that it will take time, though the prevailing lean period is a cause for worry. We are perhaps not doing enough to reach out to patients’ families and counselling them. More organizations should join the effort,” sai Supriyo Majumdar, secretary, Bimal Karmakar Foundation. He added the foundation was now targeting skin, cornea and heart valve transplants, rather than liver and kidneys. “There is a bigger demand for these organs, but hardly any organization working to procure these,” said Majumdar.
 
