PUNE: Following complaints from parents and state officials against schools affiliated to   and other boards, the ministry of human resource development will soon come out with checks for private schools.

 From making sure that the fees charged by the schools are reasonable to education department officials getting unrestricted access to the schools, Union HRD minister   said he has a plan which will be notified after talking to officials concerned. Education activists have welcomed the move as there have been many cases where officials have been denied access to   schools.
 
 Javadekar was speaking on the sidelines of western region workshop for education officials in the city on Saturday. 
 
 When asked about the problems education officials face when they go to check CBSE schools and if there will be any decision to rectify the same, Javadekar said, “We are discussing the matter. The CBSE is just an affiliation body that conducts examinations. It doesn’t have a system or inspector of its own. It creates curriculum, books, conducts examinations and gives out certificates. It is just like the   and Higher Secondary Education. But the state board has an education department and there is an administrative mechanism for inspection. The CBSE doesn’t have any inspectors.
 
 On fee regulation in CBSE schools, Javadekar said the states should learn from the Gujarat model where a committee consisting of high court judge decides if the fee above a certain limit is reasonable or not considering the facilities the school provides to students. “Parents are complaining about the unreasonable fees being charged and this has to be looked into. Discussions are on in the matter, however, nothing has been finalized. Private education has an important role to play. They are also doing some great work and the cost for that is high. We accept all this, but how high should it be? Is the fee reasonable? Should the state decide something? On all these matters discussions are on,” said Javadekar.
 
 “There should be regulations on CBSE schools. Currently, they are doing whatever they please as they think they are above the law. The regulations should be extended to   and other boards too. The punishment must be made stringent or even arrest of management members so that the management will think twice before violating state laws or disrespecting state education officials. Moreover, the deputy director should once a month conduct public hearing of all grievances and then act on it,” said Matin Mujawar, an education activist, who has fought a lot against non-action against CBSE and ICSE schools by education department.
 
 “As far as we are concerned, it doesn’t bother us as we have one of the lowest fee structures in CBSE schools in the city. Though I cannot comment for all schools, I must say that there are fee structures prescribed by schools which are exploitative and then there are fee structures which are needed by certain schools for their upkeep. So a blanket rule should not be there. An issue specific solution should be there,” said C V Madhavi, DAV public school.
 
