KOLKATA:   (22) had been gearing up to catch a film at Inox   for a week. Last Sunday, he met up with three of his friends 15 minutes before the evening show and the trio scurried up to the  . But the two-storey climb took longer than they had imagined — the four had to wait almost 30 minutes before they could jostle into one of the two elevators being used for Inox audience. A total of four elevators are currently functional at the mall that is now under renovation.

 Scores of movie-goers at South City have missed the first 15-20 minutes of their shows over the last three weeks, waiting in queues to get into elevators. The sudden surge in crowd triggered by three major releases has turned the wait longer. “We were shocked to be greeted by a huge crowd at the elevator doors. Everybody was getting impatient and the moment the door opened, dozens lunged to get a toehold. The lifts were moving very slowly. It was a tedious wait and we missed the beginning of the show,” said Saha.
 
 Jadavpur University student Ankita Mukherjee had reached the mall almost 20 minutes before her show last Wednesday, but missed the first 10 minutes. 
 
 The situation is turning worse when the start and end timings overlap between screens. “We have four elevators ferrying visitors to the second-floor. Two of them are meant for Inox and the rest for restaurants. We are not allowing our patrons to cross over from the restaurant side to the multiplex since repair work is going on. But we might have a re-look for the sake of our customers’ convenience, especially during rush hours. The lifts may be allowed to be used for both Inox and restaurants, but we have to review the situation first,” said Manmohan Bagree, vice-president and COO, South City Projects. A fifth elevator, not meant for visitors, is often being thrown open for use during rush hours.
 
 Subhashis Ganguly, director - east, Inox, said: “There is no reason why people should be kept waiting long. If movie-goers board the elevators in a queue, there shouldn’t be delay. But unfortunately, people aren’t disciplined. They should realize that the mall is under renovation and there are constraints.” He added that jostling to get into elevators has turned into a culture in Kolkata. “Recently, I was at another mall where multiple elevators were working. But I had the same experience.”
 
 
