CHANDIGARH: To ensure smooth flow of traffic in residential areas,   plans to introduce the concept of alternate side parking.
The system, which will determine on which side of a street cars can be parked on a given day , has been proposed in the draft parking policy for residential areas framed by the department of urban planning.The policy will be tabled before UT adviser Parimal Rai and then sent to the UT administrator for approval.
 
 As per the proposal, oddeven parking restrictions will be imposed on wide roads within sectors. However, there will be a complete ban on narrow roads.
 
 On even calendar days, parking will be allowed on one side of the street, and on odd calendar days, on the other.Once enforced, residents will be able to park their cars only on the designated side of the street. The authorities will put up signage on the streets informing about the restrictions.
 
 For effective implementa tion, the department has decided to take assistance of the Chandigarh police, who will challan those who vio late the rule. With the everrising number of vehicles and absence of sufficient  , residents park on both sides of internal roads, leading to chaos. The authorities, in the poli cy, have also laid empha sis on improving public transport. For the past few years, CTU has been making efforts to better public transportation and ply 75 routes with a waiting period for boarding a bus varying from 20 minutes to about one and a half hour.
 
 In the absence of an efficient public transport system, residents prefer their own vehicles, leading to traffic congestion and parking problem. The city has the highest density of vehicles in the country , the average number for each family being more than two.
 
 The policy also talks about improving last-mile connectivity, for which the CTU is planning a fleet of e-rickshaws to drop commuters to their doorstep.
 
 Harman Sidhu, president of Arrive Safe, a city-based NGO on road safety , who had urged the administration to frame a parking policy in the last meeting of Chandigarh Road Safety Council, said, “One-side parking will work as it will clear the other side of the road, thus enabling free movement of vehicles and pedestrians.“
 
 Calling it the need of the hour, Federation of Sectors' Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman   said it was the right step, but the authorities would have to ensure effective enforcement.
 
 
 
 
 Chandigarh, which has the highest per   in the country, definitely needs to think out of the box to handle the parking problem in the city. This odd-even parking will certainly rein in the chaos on inner roads of sectors, but it has to be planned down to the last detail so that it works.Apart from working towards bettering the public transport system, the administration should ensure that residents buy only those many vehicles as they have parking space for.
 
