A woman, who was told her child had died during delivery, traced him out amid a group of rescued children, went to the police and with their help underwent tests to prove that indeed the child was hers.

 The woman had gone for delivery to   in Mysuru, where the doctors told her that the child had died. Months later, she read in the papers a report about a group of children who were rescued from a trafficking racket at the hospital and saw a picture of the children rescued. Among the children she saw a child, whose face bore resemblance to her husband’s.
 
 The woman, who has two daughters, had come to know she was pregnant with the third child just a few months after her husband’s death. She went to the hospital and asked for an abortion, but the pregnancy had crossed the stage of abortion. So she went ahead with the delivery at the hospital, only to be told that the male child had died during birth.
 
 When she saw the story and the picture, however, she felt convinced that the child had not died. So she went to the police station with the relevant documents and spoke to Dr  , Commissioner of Police. The CoP paid heed to this and called for an investigation. The DNA samples proved that indeed she was the mother of the child, who was now at Bapuji Children’s Home.
 
 Social Welfare officers too confirmed that the baby found in the rescue home was born to a widow.
 
 The case has been transferred to the Mandi police station. Police have traced three sets of biological parents to nine female and seven male rescued children.
 
 Mandi police officials said the procedure to hand over these children to their parents was going on as per the law. The police are waiting for the court’s order to make the complete handing over.
 
 Right after the child trafficking racket was unearthed, a woman from   too had claimed that one of the rescued children was hers. The rescued children are staying at Bapuji Children’s Home, Vikasana Organisation of Mandya and   of Srirangapatana. These organisations are working on getting these children adopted.
 
 
 
 
 The gang involved in kidnapping and selling children to childless couples was getting the birth certificates done directly in the name of couples who were buying these children, mentioning them as the biological parents. With this, gang members got visas and passports done easily for the children, said Mysuru Superintendent of Police Ravi D Chennannanavar.
 
 He said, “The authorities of Naseema Hospital Usha and CJ Francis, OT nurse Renuka and fake doctor Anusha alias Srimathi, are the prime accused. Among the 17 children rescued from the gang, at least 15 were born in either Arvind or Naseema Nursing Homes. The accused had got the birth certificates done directly in the name of the buying couples, instead of their biological parents.”
 
 
