Ludhiana: A woman who visited the Khanna civil hospital in the guise of a nurse allegedly stole a 17-day-old infant from the hospital on Saturday.

 The woman’s act was captured in a CCTV camera. Police have booked the unknown woman and started investigation into the matter.
 
 In her complaint, Sunita, who resided in the slums near railway lines in Khanna, claimed that she had given birth to a boy on September 7. As her baby suffered from some health issues, they took him to Khanna civil hospital from where he was referred to PGI Chandigarh for specialized treatment.
 
 Sunita said he was discharged from the PGI after his condition improved. But his health deteriorated again after a few days and was admitted to the civil hospital.
 
 On Saturday at 11.30am, she was with her baby in gynaecological ward on the first floor of the building when a woman, identifying herself as nurse, came to the mother. She added that she claimed that they have to get some blood tests of the baby done, so she has come to take the child.
 
 The victim further said the woman then gave her Rs 20 to get something from the canteen for her and she went to buy that. She added that when she returned, she couldn’t find her and even her baby was also missing.
 
 Sunita said later they checked with the hospital authorities about the “nurse”, but they expressed ignorance about any such person. She added that after that after that they informed the police.
 
 Khanna city police have booked the unknown woman for kidnapping.
 
 Khanna senior superintendent of police Navjot Mahal said CCTV footages of various areas suggested that she had passed through Sarafa Market before disappearing from near the post office on GT Road. He added that they have circulated the CCTV footage of the accused and are hopeful that she will be identified soon.
 
 Police officials said parents of the infant are migrant labourers from Bihar who work in Khanna.
 
 Box: The accused was also captured in CCTV cameras at the civil hospital. The CCTV footage suggested that she entered the hospital premises at 11.05am and came out with the infant at about 12.08pm.
 
 
