VADODARA:   turned sour in several areas of Vadodara and   as petty fights over snatching or cutting kites erupted into clashes during two days of the festival.

 In Vadodara, at least 15 people were injured in separate incidents reported near  , Navapura, Panigate, Sama, Jawaharnagar, Karelibaug and Bapod since Saturday .
 
 Two groups belonging to different religions attacked each other near Sardar Estate on New VIP Road on Saturday afternoon. Police said that there was fight after a person from one group cut the kite of the other group. This lead to heated arguments and snowballed into a clash. Stone pelting was re ported from both sides but police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Five persons were injured and police booked around 10 per sons for rioting.
 
 On Sunday morning too, two groups pelted stones at each other in Khatkiwad locality of Navapura after a heated argument over same reason. Three persons were injured by stones, police said. No complaints were registered by either of the groups that struck a truce later.
 
 Police said that four cases of assault were registered at Panigate, Sama and Jawaharnagar police stations and four cross complaints of rioting were also registered at Karelibaug and Bapod police stations on Saturday . Cops said that all fights happened over petty arguments of snatching kites or cutting each other's kites.
 
 In all, the cops booked 32 persons in different incidents but no arrests have been made yet.
 
 In Mehsana, two groups of people attacked each other with swords after a fight over flying kites. Three people were wounded seriously by swords and rushed to the civil hospital. Sources said that three persons passing on the road near   had to stop their bike and cycles to avoid getting injured by the manja. They entered into an argument with the society residents who were flying kites. One of them was thrashed and there was stone pelting for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, one person returned with swords and attacked the bikers. One of them suffered injuries on the shoulder and another on the head.
 
 Police booked three persons for attempt to murder.
 
