Vadodara: An inquiry has been ordered into the stampede that led to death of one person at the Vadodara railway station during Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s film promotion campaign on Monday night.  Vadodara railway superintendent of police (SP), Sharad Singhal said that the probe will focus on whether appropriate security was available at the platform, factors that led to lathicharge, whether permission was given to the film promotion unit and if the unit had flouted any rules.  Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu also tweeted that he has directed Director General of Railway Protection Force (RPF) to investigate the matter and take stern action against any lapse.  Fareed Khan Pathan (43), a local Samajwadi Party member, died of heart attack as he got suffocated in the crowd, while some citizens suffered injuries in the milee. Pathan had come to meet his niece Samina Sheikh, a journalist with the Bombay Times who was travelling with SRK. A case of accidental death has been registered by the railway police.  SRK, Sunny Leone and members of the film promotion unit were travelling by Delhi-bound August Kranti Rajdhani Express to promote his upcoming film ‘Raees’ which releases on Wednesday. Unprecedented scenes were witnessed at the station as thousands turned up at to catch a glimpse of the super-star who arrived at about 10.40 pm on Monday. Khan came to the coach’s door and waved at the crowd but the fans went berserk when the train began leaving the platform.  “People started running towards the train as they were expecting Shah Rukh to come out again. We had to resort to lathicharge to keep people away from the moving train as it could have led to a major accident. I have asked the deputy superintendent of police to inquire into the incident,” Singhal told TOI.  Singhal added that he was not intimated officially about the film star’s visit.  “After the train left Surat station, a Government Railway Police (GRP) police inspector informed me that Shah Rukh would be reaching Vadodara railway station next. I immediately deployed 100 GRP personnel while the Railway Protection Force (RPF) sent 50 of its men. We did not expect such a huge crowd. The crowd also went berserk as t-shirts with Shah Rukh’s autograph were thrown at the fans,” Singhal said.  Two GRP personnel also fell unconscious due to suffocation and were rushed to the government-run SSG Hospital. The platform was strewn with shoes and footwear left behind by fans who panicked and fled from the chaotic scenes. In a statement, Shah Rukh said, “It’s unfortunate that the incident took place despite security measures. My prayers are with the family of the deceased." Family members admitted that Pathan had a heart condition for some years now. Amit Kumar Singh, divisional railway manager, Vadodara railway division, told TOI that the platform 2 and 3 on which the train was scheduled to arrive was changed to platform number 6 which has easy access and is bigger.  "Simultaneously, we had stopped the sale of platform tickets from 9 pm onwards but people who purchased tickets for short-distance trains to get access to the platform,” he added.