PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Two deaths in the past week have created an urgent need for beefing up safety measures on the   Road stretch of the PuneMumbai highway to prevent recurrence of accidents.

 Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation-appointed contractor has begun the work of four laning of the 6km stretch passing through Dehu Road Cantonment Board ( ) limits from December 1, 2016. TOI had reported more than a fortnight ago about the stretch being dark due to lack of streetlights and many areas being dug-up because of the highway widening work that have led to traffic snarls and minor accidents.
 
 A visit to the area showed lack of safety measures on the stretch from near Bhakti Shakti chowk to Y junction near Dehu Road police station and existence of only two or three solar powered blinkers. Though there are barricades on the right side of the two-lane highway along the defence land, a little further down there are barricades on both sides leaving only the tarred two lanes for vehicular traffic, which leads to frequent snarls. A little ahead, alternate side barricades appear but snarls occur near Alkapuri due to barricades on both sides.
 
 Moreover, chaos rules Hotel Savana chowk after one crosses the railway overbridge when traffic policemen or wardens are not present. Further little ahead, there are barricades on both sides up to Swami Vivekananda chowk, which again causes traffic congestion. On this stretch, a big ditch has been dug up near the road extending from Pune-Mumbai highway on to Shivajinagar chawl.
 
 Anil More, a resident, said, “Three youths have fallen into this ditch and fractured their limbs while going through this area. People have to be careful while riding two-wheelers on this stretch, especially at night.“
 
 Further ahead, there are barricades on both sides of the highway from Swami Vivekananda to  .
 
 Amardeep Singh Babli, a social worker, said, “Iron barricades have been erected near Gurudwara on both sides of highway for widening. But some barricades sometimes fall, posing danger to two-wheelers.“
 
 Kailas Shinde, another resident, said, “There are boards advising people to go slow, which are only visible during day . Boards that can be visible at night too should be put up.“
 
 Senior police inspector of the Dehu Road police station Arun More told TOI, “We have manpower shortage, so cannot deploy more personnel on the old Pune-Mumbai highway to control traffic. We have demanded four wardens from DCB to help us control traffic.“
 
 Mickey Kochar, former president, Dehu road unit of NCP , said, "We have submitted a memorandum to Dehu Road police station demanding blinkers be installed on the stretch from   up to ordnance factory to inform drivers to slow down as the streetlights have been removed for road widening."
 
