Pune: Auto and industrial component supplier Schaeffler Group said it will invest Rs 750-1,000 crore over the next five years in the country.

 The move comes in the wake of the growing renewables business in India and also from the government’s push for Bharat Stage-VI (BS-VI) emission norms.
 
 BS-VI emission norms will come into effect from April 1, 2020 for all category of on-road vehicles.
 
 By the end of 2017, the company will begin to expand its existing plants in Talegaon near Pune and Savli near Vadodara. To build both facilities, the company has set aside an amount of about Rs 160 crore. Both facilities, when completed, will employ an additional 260 people.
 
 The Savli plant, where nearly 800 large bearings are made for windmills, has already reached peak capacity.
 
 “In the last few years, India has taken a lot of big steps and has committed to cut down greenhouse emissions. There is a lot of potential for us in the wind energy space because as a company, we have a big business there,” Schaeffler India president & CEO Dharmesh Arora, said.
 
 Schaeffler India has three units – the publicly listed FAG Bearing India Ltd, and privately held INA Bearings and LuK. Between the three companies the group employs 3,000 people.
 
 Arora, who recently took charge as the managing director of FAG Bearing India as well, said the regulatory changes to the Bharat Stage norms is also a good thing for the company.
 
 “We are in a very sweet spot as many of our products find space in the vehicles’ power train. I think it opens up a perfect opportunity for us with multinational companies as well as with local vehicle makers. We are in discussions with a lot of vehicle makers in the country, including two-wheeler companies,” Arora said. 
 
 Last year, Schaeffler India returned a revenue of Rs 3,500 crore – 10% more than that in 2015. This was, however, slightly lower than the 13-14% growth that the company had been logging in the previous few years.
 
 Arora attributed the slower growth rate to private investment activity not picking up as desired and most major new investments being driven solely by the government. 
 
 “In 2016, growth was only 10% because despite the automotive sector doing well, the industrial sector did not do as much. Though government spending is up, private sector investment has not picked up yet and so the industrial sector – which is 45% of our business – is not doing as well. If you look at IIP numbers, the indications are mixed and for the whole year, growth was more or less flat at 0.2%. Core industries like cement, electricity did well, but it was due to government spending,” he said. 
 
 As a general practice, Arora said, the company invests about 7-8% of its annual revenue into fresh capital expenditure. However, in 2016, the company only invested about 4.28% of its Rs 3,500 crore revenue. 
 
 
