PATNA: Senior   functionary Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday continued with his tirade against deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and alleged that the RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s 26-year-old son has amassed 26 properties in Bihar and New Delhi without any clarity on his sources of income.

 Furnishing relevant land registration documents, Modi alleged that 13 properties in Patna and Gopalganj are directly registered in Tejashwi’s name, while the remaining 13 are owned by the companies in which he is either the director or a shareholder.
 
 “Two out of the 13 plots of land which Tejashwi directly owns were registered in his name in 1993 when he was around three years old. Ten more properties were registered in his name between 2004 and 2009, when his father Lalu was rail minister. One plot at Bairiya on the outskirts of Patna was registered in his name in 2009,” Modi said on the sidelines of his weekly Janata Darbar.
 
 “Tejashwi never denied owning all these properties, even though he was a minor. Now that he has been accused of acquiring 13 more benami properties through shell companies after becoming an adult, he is saying he did not have even beard or moustache at that time,” the BJP leader of opposition in state legislature said.
 
 Modi said if chief minister Nitish Kumar is asking Tejashwi to explain on the corruption charges against him in the land-for- railways hotels case, he should not run away from it.
 
 Deliberating on the 13 properties acquired through firms owned by Tejashwi, Modi said: “Tejashwi acquired 13 properties through shell firms run by him and other family members of Lalu, including his wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi and elder son and health minister Tej Pratap. These shell firms are Delight Marketing Company Pvt Ltd, Ab Exports Private Limited and AK Infosystems Private Limited.”
 
 Modi said the 13 plots acquired through the shell firms run by Tejashwi and his other family members have already been declared benami and provisionally attached by the Income Tax (I-T) department.
 
 On the ‘daadhi-mooch’ defence earlier made by Tejashwi on the FIR lodged by the CBI, Modi said: “Delight Marketing was given three acres of land in Patna through 10 sale deeds in 2005. In 2013-14, the firm was taken over by Tejashwi and Rabri. He must have been 23 at that time. In 2016, when Lara Projects LLP (Delight Marketing was rechristened as Lara Projects in 2016) entered into an agreement with RJD MLA Abu Dojana’s firm Meridian Construction (India) Limited for development of a mall on the three acres of land, Tejashwi was the deputy CM of Bihar.”
 
 Modi said Tejashwi should either resign on moral grounds or Nitish should sack him to keep intact his image of zero tolerance on corruption.
 
 
