NEW DELHI: Real estate giant   failed to comply with a   order to deposit Rs 10 crore and told the apex court on Friday that it could not raise the amount as it was hit by demonetisation.

 The court had directed the company, which is fighting a legal battle to protect its twin towers — facing the threat of demolition — at Emerald Court in Noida, to deposit the amount before its registry by January 3 to ensure that flat buyers who wanted their money back did not remain in “illusion”.
 
 After hearing Supertech’s plea, the SC gave it time till March 20 to deposit the money, saying it was the last chance for the developer to comply with its order.
 
 
 
 
 The court had earlier said that flat buyers should not feel uncertain regarding their investment as the fate of twin towers hangs in balance and made it clear that it would order for their demolition if it came to the conclusion that they had been built in violation of law.
 
 Senior counsel   and advocate Keshav Mohan, appearing for Supertech, told a bench of Justices   and R Banumathi on Friday that the Centre’s November 8 demonetisation decision had hit the real estate sector badly and the company could not manage to collect the amount.
 
 “Demonetisation has taken a toll on us and we are not even able to borrow money from banks to deposit Rs 10 crore as directed by the court,” Dhavan told the bench and pleaded for more time.
 
 After giving it time till March 20 to deposit the amount, the SC directed the registry not to entertain any application of the company for seeking further extension of time to deposit the amount.
 
 The apex court is examining the validity of the order passed by the Allahabad high court in 2014 directing demolition of the two 40-storey residential twin towers — Apex and Ceyane — in Noida and directed   to refund money to buyers with 14% interest.
 
 The twin towers have 857 apartments, of which about 600 flats have already been sold. The apex court, while staying the demolition of towers, had earlier directed the company to pay interest to investors at the rate of 10% of the amount invested. It had also directed   to examine the towers and file its findings on alleged illegal construction.
 
 The   in its report said the twin towers were constructed in violation of building regulations. “The open space available between the two towers Tower 1 and Tower 17 is less than 20.45 metres as prescribed in clause 8.2.3.1 of Noida Building Regulation( NBR), 2005 to satisfy the provision of regulation no 24.2.1 (6) of Noida Building Regulation, 2010. Thus from the above observations and inference, NBCC concludes the opinion that the two towers are not compliant with regard to 24.2.1 (6) of NBR 2010,” the report says.
 
