COIMBATORE: More than 2,500 people staged a day-long   at Avinashi in Tirupur district on Sunday demanding the state government to implement the long-pending Athikadavu –Avinashi project. 

 The state government has already sanctioned Rs 3.27 crore to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) in February 19, 2016. However, no further steps were taken by the officials. The protesters said the government should allot enough funds and a separate office in order to implement the project.
 
 They also demanded the government to appoint a special officer for the project. The protesters have warned that a series of protests will be conducted from May 1 if the state government fails to take steps before April 12 this year.
 
 The Athikadavu–Avinashi project was proposed in 1957. Though it was named as   project initially, in it was renamed as Athikadavu–Avinashi ground water project in 1972. As per the scheme, surplus water from the Pillur dam will be taken to Karamadai, Avinashi and Perundurai. The cost of the project is Rs 1,862 crore.
 
 Last year, over 14 protesters conducted a 12-day hunger strike at Avinashi seeking to implement the project and later thousands of people joined the protest. Following the protest, the state government sanctioned Rs 3.37 crore for detailed project report.
 
 The report was not approved by the Congress-led UPA regime in April 2013. Nevertheless, the finance minister had allotted Rs 3.27 crore in February 2016 for the DPR work.
 
 “After the fund allotment, the state government did not take any steps for DPR. We are fighting for the project for the last 60 years. The Tamil Nadu government should allot enough funds for the project. Only then people can manage the drought in the area,” the coordinator of Avinashi- Athikadavu protest committee D Prabhakaran said.
 
 Many political outfits, representatives from various farmers association participated in the hunger strike. 
 
 More than 1.5 lakh acres of agricultural land and more than 25 lakh people in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts will be benefitted if the project is implemented. The ground water level will also increase in the respective districts.
 
