HYDERABAD: In the last one week, there have been at least four fire accidents in the city. While the figure doesn't seem alarming, experts have sounded a word of caution, saying cases of fire mishaps could increase in light of the monsoon, especially since most are an outcome of short-circuits.

 In spite of recurrent mishaps, the fire services department seems to be dragging its feet. The department, which was mulling three new fire stations, continues to scout for land to set them up.
 
 Defending the department's position, V Papaiah, regional fire officer said, “We have asked the government for permission to set up new fire stations. But there is no land for us to set up new stations. The government has left it to us to find the land and build stations.“
 
 According to the department's records, there are only 16 fire stations in the   limits. These stations are at Gowliguda, Secunderabad, Moula Ali, Tarnaka, Snorkel Station (Secunderabad), Film Nagar, Sanathnagar, Chandulal Baradari, Langar Houz, Moghalpura, Malakpet, Musheerabad, Salarjung Museum, the High Court, Secretariat and Assembly buildings.
 
 In a city, which has a population of over a crore, one station caters to roughly five lakh people. The city , spread over 650 sq km, urgently needs at least 24 to 26 more fire stations. The city has the second highest number of fatalities after Khammam, which recorded 20 deaths over the past one year. This in spite it having the highest number of fi re stations. “We are currently looking for land in areas like Cherlapally , Gajwel and   (Shamirpet) to set up stations. But there is no land available in these areas. The department is also planning on invoking the Land Acquisition Act if required,“ said a senior official from the fire response wing. Due to the lack of fire stations in the core city , and the increased traffic congestion, the average response time of tenders has been on the slump. If there is an emergency call, the average time taken to reach the core city has gone up by 20 to 25 minutes.
 
 Incidentally , three years ago, the state home minister   announced that there would be one new fire station per district. This, unfortunately , has not materialised till date.
 
