We started out with a simple question: how far from Kolkata can you go in an autorickshaw? Baruipur? Barrackpore? Rajarhat? Kolaghat? No one seemed to know for sure. We asked around — itinerants, daily passengers,   drivers — and finally, after some days of research, realised that on an auto from Kolkata, you don’t just move in space, but also in time. City melts into suburb, which peels away to show up quaint villages and half-forgotten towns frozen in time. Skies turn smoky, then azure and evening-dark. Clouds gather, thunder rumbles, rain fills our windscreen and is wiped off, till finally, after two days of travelling — 20 hours on the road, 35 auto changes and a princely `528 per head as the fare — we reach the fabled town of Plassey. This is where Bengal’s real and imagined histories intersect. What would have happened that day in 1757 if Siraj ud-Daulah, the last independent Nawab of Bengal, had beaten back the forces of Lord Clive? What if Mir Jafar had not turned against his own? What if Siraj’s victory had driven the British out of India? What if…?   — or Palashi in Bengali — sits wrapped in myths, brooding over the centuries gone by. 

 
 
 But Plassey is more than its sum of history and legends. It’s also a bustling town in Nadia, less than 50 km from the erstwhile Nawabi capital, Murshidabad. The town attracts its fair share of visitors: many of them tourists looking for that spot where Siraj’s forces fell. We ask around and reach the place. It is simply marked with a white monolith, scarred by rains and the sun. There is a golden bust of Siraj at the gate. The Nawab’s visage wears a smug look, as if he always knew where Bengal and Bengalis would end up, 260 years down the line. This is where our journey ends. 
 This is also where the final battle took place on June 23, 1757. But the story goes back another year, when on June 17, 1756, Siraj’s 30,000-strong army set fire to the Burrabazar area — from where we had begun our auto journey. Next day, a fierce battle took place near British Indian Street in Dalhousie and the Nawab captured Fort   along with the city of (then) Calcutta. Seven months later, on January 3, 1757, a strong British contingent from Madras, now Chennai, reached Kolkata and recaptured the fort and wasted no time in sending a manifesto of war to 
 the Nawab.
 The two forces faced off at Plassey, then a small village, on June 22, 1757. The next day, the armies clashed in a mango orchard, where the British soldiers led by Major General   defeated Siraj’s forces. This is the spot — the turning point in Indian history — that the monolith marks. 
 
 
 
 There are other historical milestones we cross, like Barrackpore, where Mangal Pandey raised the flag of dissent exactly a century after Plassey, leading to the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857. But there is more than romance and history in our journey. There are stories of grit and wonder, of people who depend on these auto routes for their lives and livelihoods. There are those like Bijoli Halder, a widow who depends on these autos to ferry flowers from Mullickghat Flower Market near Howrah Bridge to Sealdah station, before she takes a train to Sonarpur. Or Babu Pal, whose tea shack is open from 4.30 am to 8 pm, selling tea, biscuits, egg-toast, bread and ghugni to auto drivers on Jessore Road, near 
 the airport. We did not ride horses to Plassey, like the Nawab’s men. Neither like daily travellers did we take a bus or train, which would ferry us to the town in five hours. From Kolkata, Plassey is 161 km by train and 162 km along National Highway 34, which serves as the bus route. But our journey wove in and out of the highway, according to the auto and toto routes, and clocked 263 km spread over two days. 
 Forty-eight hours is not a long time, but the trip changed us. It gave us a peek into what Bengal is and what it could have been. Much of our past glory is gone. But what we have yet is a treasure. As we travelled, they accepted us with open arms and hearts. They spoke to us, patiently. They moved and shifted, giving us enough room on the narrow seats. We ate with them, laughed with them, dreamt with them. The journey taught us that this is our biggest life force. We, the people.
 
 
 
 Our journey begins on a busy weekday, at the busiest hour, from probably the busiest part of the city. We are in Burrabazar and it’s 10.30 am. Serpentine lanes lead off in all directions. Around us are massed people in Brownian motion — labourers offloading crates of fruits, spices, garments, utensils and whatnot from vans and rickshaws. Shop-owners are watching over them, as porters carry the deliverables to their destinations: the shops. The hum of business is throbbing all around us.
 There’s a lot of good-natured pushing and shoving through the crowd, as we reach the Strand Road-MG Road intersection and catch an autorickshaw that’s taking us to the other end of MG Road, in front of the Sealdah flyover. You must have nerves of steel to traverse this distance. Our auto, loaded with four people, pitches and rolls along Canning Street, manoeuvring through parked vehicles, people, merchandise. We drive through Colootala, traverse the College Street boipara and emerge on MG Road at the Baithakkhana Crossing.
 Our first auto journey has taken us from one ancient Kolkata market to another. While Burrabazar — where you can buy tiger’s milk if you have the money, or so goes the story — sells everything, Baithakkhana market is the Mecca for all things related to stationery and the card-printing business.
 We cross APC Road and enter Kaiser Street, which hugs Sealdah station and massive, red railway establishments built in colonial times. The Raj is all around us and will stay with us till Plassey. Several auto routes radiate from this area, snaking north, west, east. We take a Phool Bagan-bound auto along Canal East Road, which is crowded with slums, and reach the Phool Bagan-CIT Road crossing along Narkeldanaga Main Road.
 Here, the East-West Metro construction work puts an end to our journey prematurely. Even the mighty auto, which has the licence to enter the most intimate and narrow lanes of the city, has to stop here. We walk some and take an Ultadanga-bound auto from CIT Road. Ultadanga is like a transition zone. It is from here that VIP Road carries you further and further into the suburbs past the airport. We cross the pedestrian overbridge and board our next auto. It’s like taking a plunge; finally we’ll be free of 
 the city.
 
 
 
 
 
 As we hit VIP Road and go past Lake Town, nothing much changes around us. There are big residential projects, markers of the urban scramble for cheap, decent housing in the past few decades. There’s beautification too — parks and gardens, with the Big Ben replica as the pinnacle of this 
 civic achievement. 
 Lake Town also marks the spot where the jurisdiction of Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police ends. For the autos, this means a bonanza. As soon as they enter the Bidhannagar Commissionerate area, they can carry the extra, fifth, passenger. At Jessore Road we decide to take a break. Right opposite Italgachha Road, we have a cup of tea at Babu Pal’s tea stall (see box).
 The auto to Madhyamgram is depressing and tiring. The road is being widened and dust floats over the area like an aerosol. We want to get over this stretch as quickly as possible. Our auto weaves in and out of the traffic to finally reach Chanpadali More in Barasat, the district headquarters of North 24 Parganas. Barasat is a congested and busy town. Two arterial road links — National Highway-34 and Jessore Road that goes to the Bangladesh border — run through Barasat. The next auto we take, to Colony More next to the Hela Bottala crossing, is the shortest distance on our entire trip — just 1 km.
 
 
 
 
 
 If you want to travel fast on this route, you take a bus from here along NH-34. The auto routes take a diversion, towards Barrackpore and other industrial towns of North 24-Parganas on the eastern bank of the Hooghly. The trips also start getting longer now. From Hela Bottola, it’s 10 km to Barrackpore, which we cover in a single auto. With increasing distances, the fares — paradoxically — decrease. The urban fare structures are far behind us now. 
 This is also Bengal’s jute belt, another link with our colonial past. From Barrackpore, we pass through the smokly factory towns of Shyamnagar, Kakinara, Naihati, Hukumchand — a township for the employees of the jute mill of the same name — till an auto ferries us to Bagmore, the entry point to the railway town of Kanchrapara. Autos on this stretch are taken by the workers of these factories, who live on east of the road and travel to their workplace, which are mostly on the west, closer to the river. 
 We finally meet the railway tracks, which have been running broadly parallel to us, at Kanchrapara. Here we take the overbridge and reach the other side, from where an auto takes us to NH-34 again at Baro Jagulia crossing.
  
 
 
 As we cross Boro Jagulia, the landscape changes again. The factories become fewer and then vanish. The grey colour scheme of the landscape starts turning green. Villages dot the road, alternating with vast open farmlands and some brick kilns. The city and its urban sprawl is finally behind us and we are in the villages now. It’s 12 km to Birohi, and on this route, we see for the first time the auto’s cousin — the toto — running on the same route. This battery operated three-wheeler is auto 2.0 in the new millennium. The drivers are just as feisty, the routes just as fluid. The toto stays with us till the end of our journey, fighting for passengers and road space with the mighty auto. 
 On our way to Birohi, we enter a new district — Nadia. It’s here that the rain first hits us. We have to travel 40 km through villages turned hazy by the driving showers. It’s pleasant and cool and the autos are much bigger here. They can easily accommodate six passengers, but when we start off, we’re already carrying 12! 
 This is one of the remotest bits of our journey on Day 1, as we pass Madanpur, a small village with a quaint railway station, before reaching Chakdah. By then it’s almost dark. We ask around and figure out that we have to take an auto to Payradanga. There aren’t proper roads on some stretches of this route, but that can’t stop the autos and totos. Some parts are so narrow that passengers can almost touch the walls of the houses that line the road. At one point, our driver gets out in the rain and pushes his auto into the courtyard of a village house, so that he can let an auto from the opposite direction pass. 
 It’s pitch dark as we set off from Payradanga for Ranaghat Court More. There are no streetlights, and only the beam of the auto’s headlight slices through the darkness. We can make out the fleeting villages we whiz past; there are passengers who hang from the footstands on this entire journey. No one’s complaining though. Finally, around 9 pm, we rumble into Ranaghat Court More at the crossing of NH-34. As we check into a hotel, we calculate the distance travelled — it’s 132 km, and we’re around the halfway mark. One more day to go.
 
 DAY 2
 
 
 
 
 
 We leave Ranaghat just as the clock at a nearby church strikes eight. It’s a sunny morning, a day of many possibilities. Our auto is brimming over with seven adults and a child. Our first stop will be Birnagar, about 10 km from Ranaghat Court More. After being on NH-34 for a kilometre, our auto takes a right into Birnagar Road and within minutes, the panorama changes completely. This is fertile land, watered by many rivers and the lush monsoons. The fields are a hive of activity — some are ploughing, while others are spraying pesticides or watering the fields. On this road, for the first time, we witness autos, tractors and even horse-drawn carts piled high with hay, sharing the carriageway.
 Our next ride from Birnagar takes us to Badkulla, the last station before the district headquarters of Krishnagore. Though our auto ferries passengers to the station, we get off at Badkulla Bazar, from where we’ll grab our next auto. Interestingly, this is the first time in the entire journey that we’ve got off midway on a route. From Badkulla Bazar there is a direct auto to Bhat Jyangra crossing on NH-34, which is around 3 km from Krishnagore. A toto takes us to the town’s bus stand via the railway station.
 
 
 
 At Krishnagore bus stand we come across our first real hurdle. Although there is an auto route till the PWD crossing on NH-34, there are no autos for the next 10 km to Dhubulia Bazar. It is dispriting, but we haven’t come this far to be beaten back. We decide to hire a toto, which, for `100, would not only ferry us to Dhubulia Bazar, but also show us Krishnagore Rajbari, one of the most famous historical landmarks on this route. When we enter the palace compund, we find that the outer perimeter walls have all collapsed. One of its seven Prabesh Dwars is still standing though. The main building, which is apparently well-maintained, is shut and we can’t enter it. But our toto driver tells us that the descendants of Raja Krishna Chandra Roy still come down to the palace during Durga Puja, which is still celebrated with some pomp and show. Krishnachandra was one of the royals to align with the British after the fall of Siraj. 
 
 
 
 From Dhubulia Bazar, the village roads are back with us again. It’s a long journey on this stretch, about 40 km of idyllic countryside that keeps pace with our trundling autos. We change five vehicles, all of which start or terminate at a market or a railway station. The paddy fields, speckled with villages nestled among clusters of trees, are like picture postcards from another era. We are just over 200 km out of Kolkata, but this is another land functioning on a different timescape. We re-emerge on the national highway at Dharmada crossing and then take an auto to Bethuadahari bus stand. Along the way we spot the deer park, a popular weekend gateway from Kolkata, which is about 3 km from the bus stand.
 We break for lunch around 2.30 pm and have a delicious meal at a small pice hotel next to the bus stand. 
 
 
 
 We’re really pushing ahead now, since we’re on the last leg of our journey. We feel Plassey calling us, as we take our post-lunch ride to Nagadi. There is a direct auto to Debagram, but the drivers here have broken the route into two, which requires us to take another auto from Nagadi to Debagram. There’s another diversion waiting for us here, as we board our next auto to Kaliganj. The vehicle gets off NH-34, but takes a road that runs almost parallel to the highway through rural hinterland. 
 Now we’re on our final lap. There’s an auto from Kaliganj to Plassey. We’re at the point of celebrating — we’ve made it, we think. Mission Impossible has been completed over two days. But our premature smiles are wiped off as our auto enters Plassey. Where’s the monument, we ask. But that’s another 3 km away, someone tells us. You guys will have to take the toto that goes to Plassey Ghat, and it will drop you off at the battlefield. 
 So, one more journey — our final one. The toto takes a diversion and suddenly, we’re driving down a road through mango orchards. It’s a quiet afternoon and the trees seem asleep, wrapped in dreams of a glorious past. We look around us. Is this where Siraj fell? Here, amid the trees? And then, finally, through a clearing in the trees, we spot the monument. It looks white from a distance, but as we get off the auto and walk up to it, we see that moss is creeping out of the cracks left by the sun, wind and rain. Siraj’s bust is like a silent host at the gate. A faint smile is on his lips. 
 It is 5.20 pm and the evening is upon us. This is the Battlefield of Plassey, the one fight that decided the fate of Bengal, and by extension, the entire country. The elastic strings of history binds me, my photographer, the auto drivers, our entire race to this place. It’s a long time since the battle, 260 years to be precise. The history books can’t be rewritten, but the future? Who knows about that? 
 Twilight fades to dusk. It’s time to go home.
 
 
 
 This elderly widow from Sonarpur runs a flower stall in her neighbourhood. And she needs to visit the Mullickghat flower market underneath the Howrah Bridge at least twice or thrice a week. For that, she heavily relies on the autos plying on the Burrabazar-Sealdah route. “I take a train to Sealdah and then take an auto to Burrabazar. At this age, it’s not possible for me to travel by bus with so much baggage. So, my family members and I depend a lot on the autos from Sealdah to Burrabazar,” she said.
 
 
 
 The 72-year-old runs a paan-cigarette store in Nayabazar along the Naihati-Hukumchand route and most of his customers are drivers of autos plying on that route. During lean hours, the drivers often end their trip at his shop, take rest and then make a U-turn to start the return trip. “Whatever little I earn from these auto drivers is enough to run my family. I also keep track of autos up for resale and interested buyers. So, I manage to earn a commission if I can negotiate a deal,” he said with a smile.
 
 
 
 Around 15 auto routes end at an open parking space on Jessore Road, right next to the airport gate number one crossing. That’s where Pal runs a tea stall that caters to the auto drivers. His stall remains open from 4.30 am to 8 pm and offers tea, biscuits, egg toasts, bread and ghugni. “I make around `700-800 per day selling food to auto drivers and that's the only source of income for my family,” he said.
 
 
 
 This resident of Kalyani has been visiting Kanchrapara almost every day for the last 35 years. And he has been following the same route. He takes a train from Kalyani to Kanchrapara station and from there, he hops on an auto to reach Bagmore. “Bus services are not so regular on this road. The auto route started around 20 years back and I’ve been a regular passenger since then,” he said.
 
 
 
 Her in-laws stay in Dum Dum, while she hails from New Barrackpore. So, every time she travels between her parents’ and in-laws’ houses with her young son and daughter, she prefers autos. “I have to travel over two auto routes — from airport to Madhyamgram and then from 
 Madhyamgram to New Barrackpore and vice-versa. I prefer autos as it’s a hassle to travel by bus with two kids,” she told us.
 
 — Arpit Basu
 
 
 
