To borrow a quote from Neil Armstrong, Anurag Mhamal’s elevation to a grandmaster – the first from Goa – is a small step for the player and a giant leap for the   fraternity here.
 
  Anurag has been aiming to become a GM for quite some time, and now that he has reached the target, there is an air of optimism among Goa’s chess players, most of whom are hoping to emulate him.
  
   , who was the first to attain the WGM (women’s grandmaster) title in 2012 was elated and said Anurag’s achievement was a result of his hardwork.
  
  “This is a great news for Goa. Many parents will look at this achievement and enrol their kids to learn chess. If you look at Anurag’s performance, he has worked really hard and set an example. Earlier   and I brought laurels to Goa. It feels good to know that boys are also doing the state proud,” said Bhakti.
  
  Most feel, now that the 22-year-old has set the ball rolling, there will be many more who can become chess grandmasters from the state.
  
  Rohan Ahuja (2414 Elo) is already an IM (International Master) and most likely to emulate Anurag in the near future. Young Candidate Master Leon Mendonca, who recently won a gold medal at the World School Games in Sochi, is another bright prospect.
  
  Rohan, 18, has earned a scholarship from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, in the United States, with a rich chess tradition. He will move to the US soon and be part of the chess team.
  
  “It has given us hope. It is tough to become a grandmaster. The title tests you thoroughly. It comes down to how one deals with pressure and expectations. Anurag’s feat has opened up many possibilities for us,” informed Rohan.
  
  On the women’s front, Ivana Furtado is not too far behind in her quest for the WGM title. She already holds three WGM norms and needs to have 2300 Elo points.
  
  “Anurag has opened many possibilities for chess players. We take pride in the boy’s achievement. We congratulate him. As far as Ivana is concerned, she has 2146 points. She may not play this year due to her studies but she will aim to do well in 2018,” said Eli Furtado, Ivana’s father.
  
  For the Goa Chess Association, these are the best of times.
  
  “It is a surreal feeling to have a grandmaster. We were worried as he was nearing the GM title but not getting it. There are ample examples of people getting three norms and not reaching 2500 Elo points,” said GCA secretary Kishor Bandekar.
  
  Anurag’s grandmaster title is no mean feat in a place like Goa where lack of resources, infrastructure and government support can cripple dreams. Anurag may be the first to become a GM, but, despite the hindrances, he will surely not be the last from Goa.
