Check out any recent Malayalam song that has been ruling the charts, be it  , Akkane Thikkane, Poomaram, Thambiran or Thechile Penne, all of them have a local flavour spun into it. Such songs seem to get lapped up instantly and even have lasting appeal. Kochi Times talks to M-Town’s lyricists, composers and singers, to find out what makes them churn out such songs.

 Music composer Prashanth Pillai says people prefer anything naadan as conventional song making has become saturated. “The common thread in these songs is the lingo actually used by people. If you ask for a glass of water in different places, you get an array of dialects and tonality,” he says. While it provides a novelty factor in the urban markets, it appeals to and connects with particular regions where such language is used.
 
 Ultimately, as Prashanth says, the song’s character is decided by its situation in the film’s narrative. He recollects how while composing Manogatham song from Anuraga Karikkin Vellam, it initially sounded like gibberish, following which, they included Sanskrit elements, taking into account the character of Asha Sharath in the film, who was earlier a Kathakali artiste.
 
 His composition Theeyame from the film Angamaly Diaries, he says, highlights the lifestyles of the characters and gels with the whole theme of the movie. He admits that there could also be meaningless songs being churned out just with an eye on the charts. “Akkane Thikkane song sung by Sreenivasan sir, Theeyame and the song from Thondimudhalum Driksakshiyum for that matter are evergreen. These will be remembered for long, with the same freshness as they have now.”
 
 Lyricist Manu Manjith is of the opinion that it is not entirely a new trend and that local flavour in songs has been there forever. He says, “Inclusion of colloquial and rustic elements has been quite common, as I remember great poet P Bhaskaran penning the lines, ‘Njan valarthiya khalbile moham pothu pole valarnallo’. However, that has never in any way affected the aesthetic value of the song.”
 
 Agreeing with him is singer Sithara Krishnakumar, who points out, “Malayalis have always been receptive to songs that capture the essence of the soil, thereby endowing them naturality and simplicity.”
 
 It also depends on who is singing the song and whether he or she is able to connect to the youth or any particular section through the same, Manu says. Often, commercial elements are added onto songs so that the common man will be able to sing it, says music composer Sooraj S Kurup. “Such songs gain attention because a layman can easily recollect and even sing the song.”
 
 What will become a runaway hit cannot however be judged or predicted, he says. “In the case of the song Lajjavathiye sung by Jassie Gift, people found the flavour very catchy. People were in the need for a change, and the local vigour helped sustain it in return. While some of them fade away with time, some are here to stay.”
 
