GURUGRAM: Long before the   realised the true potential of   and came up with a well-defined policy to promote a new breed of entrepreneurs, the city was already witnessing a generation of new entrepreneurs.

 Some of them, their companies now well-known names, shared their journey during a panel discussion, MyStory, at the Digital Haryana Summit on Friday, where the government launched its startup policy. While sharing the success stories, they also stressed the need for a smooth exit route for failed businesses.
 
 “We had started from a small office on Sohna road in 2013. We have seen this deserted road rapidly grow into a big business hub over these four years,” said Ritesh Agarwal, founder of  .
 
 According to Ritesh, one of the major benefits of being in Gurgaon has been easy access to a talent pool of 41 million people based across the national capital region.
 
 Gaurav Agarwal, co-founder of  , an e-commerce healthcare company, narrated a similar story — they grew from a basement in Sector 14 (in 2012) to a 30,000 sqft office over just a couple of years. “Apart from easy availability of residential and commercial space in the city, what worked for us was the community support we received from other successful entrepreneurs,” he added.
 
 “When we started   in 2012, the cost of doing business was much less in Gurgaon than that in Bengaluru, which worked out well for those starting up,” said Mukul Bafna, the founder of Jabong, who is now CEO of Arvind Internet.
 
 OYO Rooms and 1mg apart, the city is also home to a number of other leading startups, namely  ,  ,  ,   and  , among others. 
 
 Talking about the that need to be taken to make Gurgaon a bigger startup destination, the entrepreneurs emphasised on infrastructure development, better liveability index, security and easy exit route for startups that fail. “While the government is working on policies to promote startups, it should also work on ways to make it easier for people to quit a business if it fails. This is something I saw in the Silicon Valley, where people move from one venture to another swiftly because failure is inevitable,” said Naman Aggarwal, founder of 3Qi Labs.
 
 Abhiraj Bahl, co-founder of UrbanClap, said, “The government must focus on infrastructure development. Also, it should work on improving security with the help of citizens’ groups,” he added.
 
 
