NEW DELHI: Unless senior officers get out of their airconditioned offices, nothing will happen, the Delhi high court said on Monday in a blunt message to AAP government and the corporations, as it sought to fix accountability to prevent   and chikangunya outbreak.

 “Who will give us a certificate that there will be no outbreak of dengue in future? Who will assure this court? Can you permit 21st century Delhi to continue reeling under chikungunya, malaria, gastroenteritis?” a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Anu Malhotra sought to know.
 
 It was taking stock of progress made by all agencies in preventing any outbreak this year. The court also saw no merit in the argument by senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra that “AAP government is alive to the challenge and has set up a task force in this regard”.
 
 “You may appoint as many number of task forces, conduct as many meetings in AC offices they will take us nowhere. Do you know how much malaria is there in the city? We want   to be fixed, be it on chief secretary or the municipal commissioner,” the bench made it clear to Mehra, even as it appreciated that the “lieutenant governor is taking interest” in the matter.
 
 In response to the affidavits filed by the Delhi government and one of the corporations, the court said it wants senior officers to not just submit status reports but visit the streets and conduct physical monitoring of steps being taken to combat the diseases.
 
 “We don’t want a status report, we want an inspection report,” the court told Mehra and South Ddelhi Municipal Council (SDMC) standing counsel Gaurang Kanth.
 
 It further pointed out that a lot of hospitals in Delhi remain underused and stressed on the need to increase the number of beds to deal with additional requirements of patients during outbreak of vector-borne diseases.
 
 The court also summarily rejected Mehra’s suggestion to appoint an amicus curiae in the matter.
 
 It said that the government and corporations must ensure not just their health department but even the sanitation wing gets active in combating the diseases and sought a detailed report in this regard.
 
 The court’s direction came on two PILs accusing the AAP government and the three civic bodies of not acting vigilantly and responsibly in tackling mosquito-borne diseases.
 
 Expressing concern over the numerous deaths in 2016, it also asked all agencies to inform it about what preventive steps they have taken in comparison to last year with regard to dengue, chikungunya, and malaria.
 
 As per the status report by SDMC, at least 80 cases of chikungunya and 30 of dengue have been reported in Delhi in just four months since January 1, this year, though the season for vector-borne diseases in Delhi is between July and December. According to the data, 4,431 cases of dengue were reported in 2016 and the number of chikungunya cases stood at 9,749 — one of the worst outbreak for the disease till now.
 
 
