By Ajay Gahlaut

 I have had an argument with Gulzar. 
 
 I have faced an entire over from Muttiah Muralitharan. 
 
 I have gotten drunk with Swanand Kirkire and had him sing ‘Bawra Mann’ for me in a private concert. 
 
 I have watched an   movie that has never been released. 
 
 I have taken a sumo wrestler to a dance bar in Bombay. 
 
 I have been driven in a limousine with a police escort in Bangkok. 
 
 I have played table tennis with Mahendra Singh Dhoni. 
 
 I have been driven at high speed by Sachin Tendulkar in his sports car. 
 
 I have sung ad jingles with Rajasthani folk musicians, on a sand dune under the stars. 
 
 I have had bhindi, dal and roti on monogrammed Government of India crockery at the Indian ambassador’s residence in Tokyo.
 
 I’ve seen a colleague come to office riding an elephant.
 
 I have been taken in by the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act authorities for questioning, regarding a Rs. 1,000 crore hawala scam, when my salary was 4,000 rupees a month. In a case of mistaken identity. 
 
 I have worked with a brilliant boss who started out as a waiter in a beach shack in Goa. 
 
 I have travelled without a ticket on Mumbai locals at the end of the month, at the beginning of my career (later, I travelled first class on Emirates). 
 
 I have had egg dosa for dinner, for 5 bucks, in the middle of the night in Chembur (and I have had caviar with the rich and famous in the posh ski resort of Aspen, Colorado). 
 
 I have gambled at a casino in Monte Carlo (and won).
 
 I have discussed the joys of Test cricket with Amitabh Bachchan, on a long drive in his car.
 
 I have spoken while the entire Delhi cabinet listened.
 
 I have been offered tea and biscuits by Shah Rukh Khan in his house.
 
 I have been chased by an irate mob in a remote village in UP, while going door to door with the people who administer polio drops to children.
 
 I have been to a disco in Moradabad.
 
 I have discussed life, the universe and everything while having bhel puri with Rani Mukherjee, seated on the sand, on a beach in Goa.
 
 I have taken a walk in Nicolae Ceaușescu’s front yard.
 
 I have witnessed women perform cunning stunts in a dive joint in Bangkok.
 
 I have been disturbed by ghosts while staying in an ancient castle in Scotland.
 
 I have drunk directly from a Scottish stream (the water of which is used to make Chivas Regal).
 
 I have flown in a parachute with a table fan attached to my back.
 
 I have had my jacket mauled by a lion cub in Africa (with me in it).
 
 I have nearly overturned in an SUV while off-roading by the seaside in New Zealand.
 
 I have bombed a script written by Akshay Kumar.
 
 I have had dinner in the Tokyo restaurant that Quentin Tarantino used to shoot ‘Kill Bill’.
 
 I have given a dollar to a genuine hippie, begging in the Haight Ashbury district of San Francisco.
 
 I have raced a Segway scooter in Sun City, South Africa.
 
 I have watched whales and dolphins sport off the coast of Galle, in Sri Lanka.
 
 I have worn a kilt and blended in with the Scots.
 
 I have watched the sun set over the Rocky Mountains in Boulder, Colorado.
 
 Thank you,  .
 
 (The author is executive creative director, Ogilvy Group of Companies)
 
 
