NEW DELHI: They look like any other confident young teenager at the cusp of adulthood. In reality, these   have been through more than what an average teenager experiences. They are now out on a   — they want to ensure no other street kid goes through what they did, to interact with those who need it the most. 

 These ‘mentor’ kids are part of the Badhte Kadam scheme under Chetna, an NGO. Deepak (17) had been haunted by the memory of a girl, maybe a year younger, who confided in him about her gang rape. 
 
 “It is one memory I cannot shake off. We usually go to a meeting point a few times a week. In one such meet, the Class IX student told me that she had been gang-raped the same day. I got in touch with senior members of the NGO and the men got arrested,” he said. 
 
 These kids are part of a network of street children across Delhi. According to Shambhu, another 17-year-old who had been abused on streets, said they had a greater responsibility of rescuing others. 
 
 “We have lived on streets, worked in factories, were into substance abuse, and we know exactly what to expect, what red flags to look for. Because we have managed to get out of it, we also know how to go about it. That is where our responsibility lies.” 
 
 What makes them all the more approachable is their empathy for other street kids. Some of their friends still do not attend school and do drugs. “But these are our friends. When they are with me, I stop them from doing drugs. I prod them to join a school. But it doesn’t happen in a day. They get inspired only if they see how a peer has got a better life,” said Shambhu. 
 
 All these kids now have a purpose in life. Jyoti (17) wants to finish her school and attend  . “I have heard it is a good university.” 
 
 Likewise,  , a Class X student, wants to become a “responsible manager” while an otherwise-shy Parveen takes part in street plays that caution parents as well as kids about the high rate of disappearance among street children. 
 
 Grateful to those who rescued them from that dark world, these kids keep inspiring others while nurturing their own dreams. 
 
 
