KOLHAPUR: The   (KMC) has snapped the water supply of   and recovered Rs 6 lakh from others in the last one week.

 With the financial year coming to an end next month, the KMC has intensified its efforts to recover dues from the defaulters. The water tax department has set its eyes on big defaulters with dues more than Rs 50,000. The   for the   for the current financial year is Rs 40 crore and as of now the KMC has collect Rs 30 crore.
 
 A major portion of the tax recovery was done during November after the  . A senior official of the water department, requesting anonymity, said, “We have formed three teams each comprising a water tax inspector, two ward level officers and a technical person to disconnect the water supply. Last month, an appeal was made to the defaulters to pay their dues, but it got poor response. Therefore, we decided to make surprise visits with final notices and the drive will continue till next month. The defaulters who fail to pay the dues in next seven days will have to pay hefty fine. The amount of fine to be paid over the dues will be decided after discussing with higher authorities.”
 
 Currently, the action is being taken in C and D wards of the city where the number of defaulters are more as compared to other wards. The KMC has decided to make the names of tax defaulters public if they fail to reply to the final notices issued to them.
 
 “Naming and shaming of the defaulters is effective and most of them pay the dues immediately. In next few days, the drive will be carried out jointly with other departments to recover other tax dues such as property tax,” said the official.
 
 Earlier, the KMC collected Rs 68,73,514 in water tax dues from 11 defaulters in three days beginning February 1.
 
 The KMC intensified its drive against water tax defaulters after facing a shortfall in revenue collection in this financial year. The water tax department has so far collected only 64% of the revenue it has targeted till March 31.
 
 The KMC had prepared a list of people who have water tax dues ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The department had already issued notices to them, warning that their connections would be snapped if they failed to pay up.
 
 The department has formed a squad to take action against the defaulters. The squad will first cut the water connections of the defaulters and later seal their properties if they still fail to pay up.
 
