PANAJI: Goa’s largest assembly   of its electorate,  , recorded a voter turnout of 72.44%, the lowest in the state that went to polls on February 4. The constituency also saw the lowest female turn out at 74.68%.

 While majority of the constituency saw more than 70% of the electorate turn up to vote, a few polling stations that saw a very low turnout are responsible for bringing down the overall polling percentage.
 
 Two Parts of the constituency, numbers 27 and 29, saw only 50% and 58.59% of its electorate turning up to vote.
 
 The shocker was at Part number 30, at Varnapuri, where a mere 29% cast their ballot.
 
 Consisting entirely of naval voters, Part 30 covers the naval area near Kendriya Vidyalaya No 1, behind the accommodation area and near the Naval Wives Welfare Association. Only 270 of 900 people cast their vote here.
 
 Government sources told TOI that majority of naval officers, who got their names enrolled on the general electoral rolls, were transferred after a year or two and were not present at the time the state went to polls.
 
 “Some had already been transferred by the time their EPIC cards were issued. What’s the use of having their names on the rolls? Part 29 and 30 should be merged so that there will be 50% civilian and 50% naval voters in that part,” the source told TOI. 
 
 Returning officer of the constituency confirmed the low voter turnout was only in the navy area.
 
 Service voters were given an opportunity to get their names enrolled as general electors at the place of their posting where they reside, along with their family for a sufficient span of time. A number of these service voters from Navelim, Vasco, Ponda and Bambolim enrolled their names as general voters.
 
 The   of Vasco also saw the steepest rise of 7,553 new members in the electorate compared to the rolls of 2012. The constituency of Nuvem also recorded a step increase of more than 6,000 voters, while the other constituencies largely saw an increase between 1,000-2,000 voters.
 
 Vasco candidate and NCP president Jose Philip D’Souza attributed the low voting percentage in his constituency to the EVM at St Andrew’s High School at part number 15 malfunctioning and the electorate forced to wait for two hours until the problem was solved. The booth recorded a voter turnout of 71.92%.
 
