PUNE: Citizens are betting big on the first   after demonetisation. They hope that their ‘sacrifices’ will finally be rewarded by way of various citizen-friendly initiatives and sops. TOI speaks to participants from three critical sectors about their expectations from the Budget.

 
 
 Unlike in Mumbai, the railways might not be the lifeline of Punekars. But the blame here is not on the people, but the successive governments who have failed in giving Pune a reasonably frequent sub-urban train system. The demand to increase local service from Pune to Lonavla has featured in each of the previous budgets and this year is no different. 
 
 “Passengers in Pune face many hardships because of the low frequency of trains. The frequency, which should be around 30 minutes during the peak morning and evening hours, runs into more than an hour most of the times here,” Vaishali Kulkarni, a resident of Dapodi, said. Gulamali Bhaldar, a former member of the railway zonal users committee, said, “There is so much rush of vehicles on the Pune-Mumbai highway, particularly from Talegaon to Pune. If the local trains run at a frequency of 30 minutes, people will stop using personal vehicles. There is not much improvement in frequency of trains for the last ten years. The only thing the railways had done was increasing the coaches of trains from 9 to 12.” 
 
 Senior railway officials in Pune said the frequency of local trains can be increased only if there is an additional railway track on the Pune-Lonavla section. After the electrification of the Pune-Daund rail section, people have demanded that the railways must run electrical multiple units (EMUs) from Lonavla to Daund.
 
 
 
 Primary and secondary:   might have completed 17 years, but the quality of education leaves a lot to be desired. “Access to basic quality education is still a big challenge especially in the rural areas. With digitization and innovation seeping in to bridge this gap, there is still room for financial and statutory incentives from the government to motivate private organizations to invest their efforts and time into it, apart from the money,” Aakash Chaudhry, director of  , said. 
 
 Experts said it was also important to take measures to encourage academic research and involve participation of private institutions to reform the sector. 
 
 “We hope that the government undertakes curriculum reforms that can help improve and enhance the learning outcomes. Also, lowering the interest rates for education loans will immensely help to make this initiative more inclusive,” Uday Salunkhe, group director of WeSchool, said.
 
 Higher education: “Ensure that no deserving student is deprived of education for economic reasons. There should be a mechanism for critical review of schemes like Rashtriya Uchchastar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), university/colleges with potential of excellence among others. Establishing fellowships for deserving students pursuing PhDs in best universities abroad and for girls to do masters courses abroad will also go a long way,” Bhushan Patwardhan, director, Centre for Complementary and Integrative Health at  , said.
 
 
 
 
 The expectations that there will be a massive price correction in the sector after demonetisation have not borne fruit yet. Consumers have put off buying decisions and the sector is still reeling under slowdown. 
 
 To boost the sector and reinvigorate demand, Rohit Gera, vice-president, Pune Credai, said, “Lower the tax structure and interest rates for the end consumers while introducing the concept of special residential zone.” Sachin Kulkarni, managing director of affordable housing Vastushodh, said the sector needs “a comprehensive revival package.” To boost the availability of affordable housing, he said, “affordable housing projects need to be included in the priority sector lending… Raise the credit linked subsidy scheme amount to Rs 5 lakh instead of current Rs 2.20 lakh.”
 
