NEW DELHI: As the dust settles on a heavy turnout in the   elections,   seems more confident that it might have seen off a strong   surge in the closing stages of the poll in the border state.

 The booth level feedback, according to sources, is that AAP has done well in patches but might fall short of the sweep in the politically crucial Malwa region which many felt could power the new entrant in Punjab’s political scenario.
 
 Congress functionaries are expressing cautious optimism that the party will do well in Malwa and emerge with a majority, dispelling projections of a hung house or an upset victory for AAP. The party believes the blast at Maur near Bhatinda after a Congress roadshow has given serious traction to its claim that voting for AAP may encourage radicalism in Punjab. AAP leaders do not see this happening, arguing that the more urbanised sections who could be affected by such arguments were not voting for the party any way. Congress, on the other hand, feels the blast raised serious concerns that have affected voter behaviour. They also feel the “outsider” issue has hurt AAP as the party has not been able to dispel concerns of the remote control being operated from Delhi.
 
 Congress also feels that AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal’s complaints about the Election Commission being “compromised” by BJP and PM   as a sign that things have not gone as well it.
 
 With the battlefield shifting to other states, and polling due in Uttarakhand, Congress is concentrating on its “swabhiman” campaign centred around CM Harish Rawat.
 
 The party feels it is closing the gap with BJP as the saffron party is feeling the brunt of rebellions and resentment against outsiders being given tickets.
 
 Though Rawat suffers from a serious disadvantage as he has had to run a government continuously vulnerable to dissidents, the chief minister is seen to have a popular connect and is a recognisable face across the state as compared to a lack of a chief ministerial nominee in the rival camp.
 
 The BJP campaign largely hinges on Modi with party chief Amit Shah occupying the second spot, Congress managers said. The CM’s roadshows are, according to party sources, receiving a positive response that can be detected in follow up visits by local leaders.
 
