Nagpur: Even as supreme court ruling on curbing liquor outlets may have worried state’s excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, the finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar says it will not have any major impact on the overall finances. If not at their favourite bars which may have closed down due to the ruling, boozers would soon find an alternative. The sales would just shift to other outlets, he says.  Soon after the ruling Bawankule said, the ban will reduce collections by Rs7,000 crore. Mungantiwar, who backs prohibition, told TOI though the excise department has intimated about the shortfall to his ministry, he believes that the loss may not be as much. Mungantiwar had liquor ban clamped in his native district of Chandrapur. “The excise department has intimated that out of the total collection of Rs15,000 crore earlier, the mop up would come down by Rs7,000. However, it may not be the case as such. There may be some impact though,” said the minister. According to Mungantiwar, closing down of shops will not necessarily mean that the sale of liquor as such will fall down. “People will not give up drinking only because the shop close by has shut down. Drinkers will turn to the bars which have been spared from the 500 meter dictum, and this can make up the loss. There has not been a complete ban on liquor,” he said.  At Rs15,000 crore excise accounts for 5% of the total state’s budget. The supreme court ruling has shut down more than 80% outlets in Nagpur district alone. The city due its smaller size has highways in short distances. As a result only 60 odd bars remain open, out of 446 according to estimates by the permit room holders’ association here.  The excise department netted in Rs657 crore from the Nagpur district last year. According to early estimates the revenue is expected to come down to Rs500 crore, said a source here. Meanwhile, Mungantiwar says the state government has been able to contain the deficit considerably. It is also relying on non-revenue income to make up the loss. This can be in different forms. For example, hiking certain fees charged by the government departments or other related charges like court fees. At present, prime land is being granted to organizations on lease at nominal rents, which can be hiked The government has identified a number of heads under non-revenue income which can help in increasing the resources. “For example the Forest development corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) income can be increased by 2-3 times,” said Mungantiwar, who is also the forest minister.