A 17-year-old   who escaped a   earlier this week tried to   at her residence in   on Tuesday. The minor, who had been attacked on Monday night, was rescued by neighbours and is currently   at the V S Hospital. Doctors at the hospital said the victim had suffered 60 per cent burns. Her parents filed a complaint against the accused Yashpal Vaghela, 23, under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) and section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC.

 The victim’s parents said that the accused had been harassing their daughter for several days through obscene messages and calls. According to the complaint, Sumita, a class 11 student was alone at her residence when she was attacked by Yashpal. “On Monday, Sumita’s family had travelled to Kalol to attend a marriage; Sumita stayed back as she is appearing for her final exams. At 11.30pm, the accused Yashpal Vaghela, 23, forced entry into her home and attempted to rape her. The minor’s screams for help, however, scared the man who fled the spot. Scared, the minor locked herself in until her parents returned home at 12.30am on Tuesday,” the FIR read.
 
 On Tuesday, the teenager went to school for her exam. She returned home around 10am — her parents and sibling were out — and locked herself in her room before setting herself on fire, said police. “The victim’s screams of agony drew the attention of passersby who rushed to save her even as neighbours informed her father. Sumita was rushed to the primary health centre in Dholka; she was shifted to V S Hospital later on Tuesday evening,” said police sources.
 
 Distraught over the attack on his daughter and the extreme step she had taken, father Raman Shah said the 17-year- old had crumbled under harassment. “Yashpal had been harassing my daughter for nearly four months now. He would call her at odd hours and sent her obscene messages. He is a married man and is father to a six-month old daughter,” said Shah, who is determined to get justice for his daughter. “On Tuesday, Yashpal’s relatives visited us at the hospital. They offered to pay for Sumita’s treatment at a private hospital and Rs 35 lakh if we withdrew the FIR against Yashpal. When we refused to accept their terms, they threatened us,” he said.
 
 SP (Ahmedabad Rural) Rajendra Asari said, “The girl’s family has been placed under police protection and officers deputed at the V S Hospital to ensure the victim’s safety. A team from the local crime branch is already on the lookout for the accused.” Mirror tried to contact the accused’s father but his phone remained switched off. Relatives refused to comment on the matter and said the shop would remain closed for a few days.
 
 (Names of victim and family changed)
 
