NAGPUR: The government’s bid to promote   at   has left the fuel outlet owners short-changed.

 A scheme to offer a discount of 0.75% at petrol pumps to those paying through cards was introduced on December 12. The oil companies are supposed to reimburse the shortfall on account of discounts to dealers the next day. But, over a week’s backlog remains, say petrol pump owners affiliated to   ( ). The matter was taken up with district collector Sachin Kurve last week.
 
 “The oil companies began the payments after the collector’s intervention, but only part of the amount has been compensated till December 30. Then, payments for discounts from January 1 have been held up again,” said Harvinder Singh Bhatia, president of VPDA.
 
 Oil company officials on the other hand are blaming it on the banks. “The banks are supposed to provide statements of the deducted amount to companies, on the basis of which reimbursements are made. Even though it appears that the amount is not correct as per the discount, the companies have to go by the bank statements. Many a times, amount in the statement does not match the discount,” said an official in one of the PSU oil marketing companies.
 
 This is how the system works. Once a customer swipes a card, the bank deducts the full amount. Later, the discount is directly credited to the customers’ accounts by the banks. The banks also sends a statement to oil companies, on the basis of which the dealers are reimbursed. It is expected that the customer accounts are credited in time, the source said.
 
 There is no hassle with the payments made through the oil company loyalty cards, since the account is maintained by the companies. There is also a system of uploading the bank name and unique identity number of the card swipe machine by the outlet owners. This can help dealers get faster reimbursements, said the official.
 
 The PSU source admitted delayed reimbursement of discount is affecting the dealers’ margins since it amounts to a considerable sum. “Some of the dealers have complained they got delayed credit of the customer payments made through card,” said the source.
 
 This was confirmed by Bhatia. “Such a problem is largely with PSU banks. The bank officials said their systems are jammed due to sudden increase in card payments. The volume has increased while the banks are using the same system,” he said.
 
 IN A NUTSHELL
 
 Govt announced scheme to offer 0.75% discount on card payments at petrol pumps
 
 Oil companies are supposed to reimburse petrol pumps for the shortfall
 
 Banks have to send a statement, specifying the amount to be reimbursed
 
 Delay by banks has held up reimbursements say oil company sources
 
 Customers using cards are directly credited the discount amount in their accounts
 
 Banks also delaying credit of payments made by cards, say dealers
 
 
