Mumbai: SBI chairman   has called for relaxation in rules which are impeding resolution of   and getting businesses back on the rails.

 The chief of the country’s largest bank has sought changes in three areas. First, spreading out the ‘haircut’ or the share of loss that the bank is willing to bear, over several quarters. Second, in cases where debt is required to be converted into other instruments like equity, the bank wants exemption from certain Sebi guidelines. Third, to embolden banks to take decisions, Bhattacharya has called for an Oversight Committee that will ratify the decision taken by banks.
 
 Bhattacharya’s call for changes comes a time when around 15-17% of the total credit in the banking industry is weak, according to rating agency ICRA. These 17% loans include bad loans, restructured loans, loans exchanged with asset reconstruction companies for bonds or other exposures to entities facing credit issues. This amounts to between Rs 11 lakh crore and Rs 12.4 lakh crore, of which around Rs 7 lakh crore is recognised as NPAs.
 
 “We are looking for some dispensation which will enable resolution of bad debts,” said Bhattacharya, speaking on the sidelines of an event to launch the bank’s ‘Korea Desk’ in partnership with Korean Development Bank. The desk is aimed at boosting Korean investment in India and providing business leads to SBI’s Seoul branch.
 
 Enabling the bank the amortise the ‘haircut’ will protect its capital. Some of the other dispensations which SBI has sought are already there for some category of trouble loans. For instance loans that are sought to be resolved under the   (SDR) scheme are exempt from Sebi takeover norms and norms on pricing of new shares. Sebi rules require that fresh equity issues, when made to select investors, should be priced on average market price. Also takeover norms require investors to make an open offer when shareholding crosses a certain threshold. Also there is an independent oversight committee which ratifies that loans restructured by banks under ‘Scheme for Sustainable Structuring of Stressed Assets’ (S4A) is done as per norms.
 
 Replying to questions at the launch of the Korea Desk, Dai Hyun Lee, vice chairman of   said that KDB has a long history in corporate and investment banking, and assisting stressed companies. “We can collaborate with SBI to restructure and revive companies,” he said.
 
 
