CHENNAI: May be you notice their crutches.They hardly ever do though. That's because singer   and his band of soul-searching, seasurfing band of  , see themselves as wheelchair-bound only by body, but free-wheeling in mind and spirit.

 Formed a year ago by Viji, the red-bearded, drum-wielding, skull-bead accessorised force to reckon with, every member of `Maathi Yosi', including its founder, is paraplegic, most of them having contracted polio at a young age. “But we refuse to let life bring us down. We go where we want, do what we want.We just do it all a little slower than a person who has functioning legs,“ says Viji, famous for his song 'Danga Maari' in the film 'Anegan' (2014). “We sing, dance, go to the beach, we've even started learning to surf. We are different, and that's why our band is called `Maathi Yosi', which translates to 'think different'."
 
 And it's that overriding 'we shall overcome' theme that resonates through all the songs composed by the troupe. “Most people with whom we interact feel sorry for us because we are physically challenged. That feeling of pity has seeped into the minds of most people who are challeng ed,“ says Faziz Ahamad, one of the band's vocalists. “We want to fight that pity in our songs. That's why all our songs are uplifting in theme and lyrics. Most are about overcoming obstacles in our paths,“ he adds.
 
 Ahamad, who works at  , says he has had a penchant for singing since childhood, and decided to get in touch with Viji last year, after he read about the singer's struggles in early life ­ growing up an orphan on the sands of the Marina, abandoned for his disability, and then turning to singing at funerals to make a living.
 
 “I have always been involved in social work even as a child. And I wanted to form a band because I knew that was the best way to get our message out to society,“ says Ahamad. He adds that though the core band has five members, the extended troupe has 40 participating musicians, all of them physically challenged. “But it's the Viji factor of the band that helps us garner more attention. He captivates his audience with his personality and his singing,“ says Ahamad.
 
 “Our lyrics are written by  , the poet in our group,“ says Viji, adding that the words are set to music by troupe member Srikanth, who runs his own music academy, which is also where the band meets every Saturday to jam and rap, and get back into their groove after a hard week's work.
 
 “Singing makes us happy and through our songs we want to make everyone else happy as well. We want to help them forget their problems, to tell them through our music that we all have one life and it's a sin not to live it,“ says Viji, adding that   has booked more than 50 concerts so far, sings in genres that range from western to classical, gaana and rap, and will be releasing an album commercially in April.
 
