NEW DELHI: The portion of Lala Lajpat Rai Marg from Nehru Place to Andrews Ganj in south Delhi is a picture of   through the day. With commercial establishments making alarming inroads into road space, the movement of traffic and pedestrians is a hazard-filled exercise, not helped by the confounding variety of   using the road.

 The stretch is a vital link between Outer Ring Road and Josip Tito Marg and carries almost a third of the total traffic in south Delhi. Officials estimate that around 40,000 vehicles drive by every day, while over one lakh use the road to approach the Kailash Colony Metro station.
 
 A year ago, the traffic police banned the plying of slow-moving   and e-rickshaws there, but the enforcement has been weak. During rush hours, traffic on the two lanes leading to the metro station moves at glacial pace with all space taken up by rickshaws. It is common for snarls to stretch back to over a kilometre at such times. 
 
 The police concede that it is difficult to change the rickshaw routes since they provide the last-mile connectivity between the metro station and the nearby localities of Amar Colony, East of Kailash and Greater Kailash. Their helplessness is understandable because the colony roads — earmarked as parking spaces for non-motorised three-wheelers — are crammed with the cars of local residents.
 
 A few metres from the metro station, automobile spare part shops brazenly station cars being repaired or fitted on the carriageway, virtually bringing vehicular traffic to a halt. 
 
 The shop owners frequently get into scraps with motorists over the occupation of road space, only exacerbating the mess. Often enough, the Delhi Traffic Police board demarcating the place a “no parking zone” is causally removed to facilitate parking.
 
 Having banned rickshaws from the area, at least in principle, police have also instructed Delhi Metro to streamline the parking and entry of auto-rickshaws to ease the movement of cars. As a police officer said, “The problem will not disappear until DMRC integrates its day-to-day operations with the multi-modal transit system and creates parking near the station for vehicles.” 
 
 Shop-owners and residents are fed up with the unchecked growth of commercial entities along the stretch. “There are gyms and restaurants that reserve road spaces exclusively for their customers,” pointed out VK Sharma, member of a traders’ body. He added, “Police presence is limited to the crossings, that too at peak hours. Everything else depends on the wits of the motorist.”
 
 
