NEW DELHI: Former   MP   kicked up a massive row after saying that having the southern states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka as part of India was proof that the country was not racist. “We have black people around us,” he said on Al Jazeera’s online show, The Stream, on Thursday.

 The former editor of ‘Panchajanya’, published by RSS, also said that the recent attacks on African nationals in Greater Noida were not racist in nature and was because of “bad behaviour” borne of “ignorance”. 
 
 Vijay, who also heads   parliamentary friendship group, then spent most of Friday apologising for and clarifying his comments on Twitter, where he met with strong criticism.
 
 The 38-minute show featured Vijay, photographer   and students Mina Wumbey and Sadiq Bello. They were discussing racism against Africans in India after the spate of attacks on African students in Greater Noida last month.
 
 These happened after a class 12 student from the area, Manish Khari, went missing and came back in what appeared to be in a state of drug overdose. He later died. Neighbours and kin alleged he had been kidnapped and drugged by some Nigerians. Soon, Delhi and Noida saw retaliatory violence against Africans from different countries.
 
 Throughout the show, Vijay reiterated that while these incidents were deplorable, they could not be put down to racism. Instead, he described it as “bad behaviour”. 
 
 When fellow Indian on the show, Shantaram, highlighted racist attitudes towards Africans in India, Vijay questioned his nationality. The photographer from Bengaluru fished out his passport and held it up.
 
 On being asked why so many people had complained of racism, with several Indians themselves acknowledging racist behaviour of their fellow compatriots, Vijay said to Shantaram: “If we were racist, why would have…all the entire south which is complete…you know Tamil. You know Kerala.
 
 You know Karnataka and Andhra. Why do we live with them? We have black people around us. You are denying your own nation, you are denying your ancestry, you are denying your history, you are denying your culture and you are trying to be good.”
 
 Social media erupted with responses, with people both aghast and amused.
 
