CHENNAI: A series of judicial orders by a  , stopping the famous   (swing festival) of the  , staying auction of   and  , has thrown the festival schedules out of gear. The orders passed by the Gingee munsif court over a range of issues on petitions filed on the basis of unregistered documents, have upset lakhs of devotees of the temple who visit it every new moon day.

 The latest order of the Ginjee court, stopping the ‘Oonjal Utsavam’ held every new moon day at the temple in Tiruvannamalai district, has put a question mark over this month’s function scheduled to be held on Friday (January 27).
 
 Melmalayanur, near Gingee and Tiruvannamalai, is located about 120 km from Chennai. The 20-minute Oonjal Utsavam at the temple attracts several lakh devotees from different parts of the state, and they sing lullabies for the deity treating it as a child.
 
 The court had apparently cited lack of public amenities including poor hygiene and police bandobust as reasons for stopping the swing festival. Except an incident of electrical short circuit which killed five devotees about five years ago, the temple had not witnessed any major safety breach, trustees told TOI.
 
 The same court had stalled a new bus stand project about a year ago. Acting on an unregistered document, the court stopped ongoing bus stand works on a three-acre plot belonging to Draupadi Amman temple nearby. “Patta and all revenue documents are in the name of the Draupadi Amman temple, which owns the land. We have at least 150 buses waiting to shuttle devotees on the new moon day festival, and a bus stand was an important requirement. After the stay order, the court is now relaxing it for a couple of days every month during the festival,” an official said.
 
 Temple committee’s plan to decongest the core area by moving hawkers and vendors to a row of about 100 newly built bunk shops on the fringes of the temple premises too had been stopped by the same court on the ground that it blocked access to a burial ground. Though completed and waiting to be auctioned, the shops are now idling due to the order.
 
 There is no hindrance to any burial ground, still the temple authorities offered to demolish five shops to enable unhindered access to the burial site, the official said, adding that vested interests had been frustrating the efforts of temple authorities, one of whom was even called and intimidated. Incidentally, a real estate developer having a residential lay-out in the vicinity has been demanding a piece of the land to be used as a thoroughfare leading to his lay-out.
 
 Now the temple committee’s efforts to create a bus stand on its own land near the temple too had run into rough weather with the court threatening to interfere with yet another judicial order.
 
