PANAJI: The tourism department seems reluctant to give up its responsibility of ‘beach cleaning’ with minister Manohar Azgaonkar, alias Babu, on Tuesday instructing the department to expedite the tendering process for the purpose in a time-bound manner. This comes even as   (GSWMC), the recently constituted waste management body headed by CM  , becomes operational.

 According to sources, the SGWMC was keen to take up the task of cleaning the beaches, as the tourism department had failed to execute the job effectively.
 
 The department, on its part, was compelled to terminate the annual   contract worth Rs 14 crore in August 2016 following allegations of corruption, which led to the matter reaching the Lokayukta. As a temporary measure, Drishti Lifeguard Services was appointed to carry out the task -- an arrangement which is still in force.
 
 During a meeting at Paryatan Bhavan on Tuesday, Azgaonkar reviewed the issue of cleanliness and hygiene on Goa’s beaches in detail. He directed the department to press into service all interim measures until permanent solutions are worked out in this regard. He also discussed other issues concerning tourism and reviewed measures being taken to curb nuisance being caused on the beaches by hawkers and other unauthorized activities. He also expressed his keenness to ensure the beaches remain clean, and locals and tourists are not inconvenienced at any time of the year.
 
 Among those in attendance were tourism director Menino D’Souza, GTDC managing director   and tourism department officials.
 
 Officials have been instructed to submit a status report on various issues and activities within a week, following which a meeting of all stakeholders will be convened to put a final plan into action.
 
 A few days ago, Azgaonkar’s alleged statement of taking strict action against Lamanis, a community working mostly as vendors and hawkers along the coastal belt, had sparked a controversy, prompting the minister to later clarify that he had not targeted any particular ethnic group. He clarified that action would be taken against all those who illegally conduct business on beaches.
 
