GURUGRAM: For the last five years, residents of Ward number 26 have been demanding better road infrastructure, removal of encroachments, street lights and better traffic management. However, they say, the former   has not done anything to take up the issues with the administration. Residents feel an educated candidate from urban area should be given an opportunity this time.

 “We haven’t even met the outgoing councillor once in the past five years. Roads are in pathetic state. No road has been resurfaced in the last two years, except for some part of Golf Course Road (extension). I think there is hardly anything MCG councillor can do,” said Deepak Chauhan, a resident of the Nirvana Country township in Sector 50.
 
 Some expressed concern over major political parties selecting rural candidates to represent their ward. “It’s high time we should consider educational background of a candidate as a criterion. It’s unfortunate that major political parties have repeatedly chosen uneducated rural candidates, despite over 60% of the area now being urban,” said Pooja Rana, a resident of Sector 66.
 
 Talking about problems in his area, Promod Goyal, a resident of South City 2, said, “All roads in South City 2 are broken. Water supply has been highly irregular over the last two years. Sanitation and waste management are in poor shape. Even though residents protested against a CNG pump being set up on Sohna road, they went ahead with it. It’s now functional, causing traffic congestion every day. Councillors never stood with residents. We now want a councillor who can support us on issues that concern us.”
 
 According to RWAs, frequent water-logging and lack of street lights will have to be a major focus for candidates. “All candidates are promising to make the area free of water-logging. That, and bad drainage often leads to destruction of road surfaces in the area. Also, many candidates have promised to make street lights functional. These are two basic needs of the area,” said Ivleen Kaur, a resident of Rosewood City.
 
 “The most important issue in the area is roads. They are in very bad shape. There is a dire need to resurface all roads and build new ones at many places,” said Nilesh Tondon, RWA president, Fresco, a township in Sector 50.
 
 Responding to resident’s complaints, Rajinder Kumar Yadav, the outgoing councillor, an independent, said, “It’s true roads are in bad shape in urban areas, particularly South City 2 and Nirvana. We couldn’t do much as the areas have not been taken over by MCG yet. I approached MCG commissioner and even the chief minister’s office to take up the issues concerning urban areas in my ward, but everywhere, the response was the same: the developer has to do all the work. If you want to see work I have carried out, go to any village in my ward. My office was open 24x7, to undertake various tasks such as registration of ration cards, birth certificates, death certificates, etc. Also, we carried out plantation drives, anti-mosquito fogging and installed benches in parks.” 
 
 Yadav is not contesting this election. His nephew, Kuldeep Yadav, though, is, from Ward number 29, on a BJP ticket.
 
 Ward number 26 includes villages Fazilpur Jharsa, Begampur Khatola, Ghasola and Tigra, and sectors 35, 62, 66, 65, 72A, 73, 74, 74A, 49 (including Nirvana, Uppal Southend), 50, South City 2, and Rosewood City.
 
 
