GREATER NOIDA: The   on Friday said it was pulling out all the stops to fast-track the handover of the maximum number of   to homebuyers in   (now known as Greater Noida West).

 While 6,000 registries of homes, mainly of the Gaur group, have already been completed in the past six months,   is getting ready to complete registries of another 8,000 homes in Noida Extension in the next six months.
 
 In the past two months alone, four developers with more than 5,500 residential units have procured completion certificates for their group housing projects. Four more developers have been issued individual timelines to get completion certificates starting next week, officials said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Janardan, additional CEO, GNIDA, said the issue of pending completion certificates led to harassment of buyers, who have been running from pillar to post to procure possession of their homes. “In the past two months, we have completed the process of completion for four projects including Mahagun Mywoods (1,802 units), Palm Olympia (1,672 units), Eros Sampoornam (1,798 units) and Galaxy Vega (400 units),” the ACEO said, adding, “Registries for these housing projects will start soon, following which possession will be handed over.”
 
 “For 634 units in Supertech Eco-Village-3, the process for completion will commence on Monday. The process for Supertech’s Eco-Village 1 and 2 is also already under way for about 1,500 units. Also on the anvil is completion for 300 units of Panchseel Greens-2, while those of Shree group and Vedantam are in the pipeline,” he said.
 
 Janardan said many developers have also deposited their outstanding dues. “Since November 1, 2016, to date, we have collected Rs 607 crore from builders,” Janardan said. 
 
 Janardan said that with this move GNIDA would be be able to reschedule about Rs 100 crore till 2020-2023 besides addressing the roadblock being faced by builders in starting construction and in obtaining their completion certificates. “Eleven more builders are in the pipeline for the rescheduled payment plan. The aim is to fast-track handing over of residential units to homebuyers,” he said.
 
