NEW DELHI: Almost three months after it won the third consecutive civic elections in Delhi, BJP is pushing for reunification of the municipal corporations in order to solve their financial problems. The matter was raised at a recent meeting with party chief Amit Shah. The latter held deliberations with the   unit as part of his nationwide tour, ‘Pravas’. 

 A day after East Delhi MP Maheish Girri raised the matter in Parliament, Delhi BJP chief   said that the party was in favour of reunification. “We are in favour of reunification as the corporations, especially the east and north civic bodies, are facing a serious financial problem. Girri-ji has raised the matter in Parliament as we want an early solution to the problem. This has sparked a discussion on the issue,” said Tiwari.
 
 Since their   in 2012, the BJP-led corporations have been struggling to provide basic services to people. The east corporation has been the worst affected when it comes to finances. With limited source of internal revenue and limited share in grants, the corporation is unable to pay salaries on time. It also has a huge loan to pay to the state government. 
 
 “There are a large number of unauthorised colonies and slums in east Delhi. The source of revenue is limited due to which the corporation is not able to carry out basic development work. They are not able to pay even salaries. Unification will solve the problem,” said Girri, who is the national secretary of BJP.
 
 In a meeting with Shah last week, Delhi BJP functionaries had raised the issue of making corporations financially viable. Alleging that AAP-led Delhi government did not release funds on time and implement the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission, they requested Shah to find a solution and suggested unification of the corporations. 
 
 However, BJP’s state unit is divided over the issue. Many party members are in favour of division of the corporations. In fact, it was BJP which had proposed the division of erstwhile   into five parts. “Unification will not solve the problem. The present problem is not because of trifurcation; it is because of the state government not releasing the due amount. We have requested the central government to help corporations get its sshare from the state government,” said an MP. Tiwary said the party was exploring other possibilities as well to solve the problem. “Then, there won’t be a need to merge the corporations. We will take up the matter with home minister Rajnath Singh and other senior leaders,” he added.
 
 
