NEW DELHI: The father of J Muthukrishnan, the MPhil student of   who is alleged to have committed suicide on Monday, is not ready to accept that his son took his own life. In fact, Jeevanandam said he suspected foul play and demanded his son’s death be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and a case be registered under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

 After reaching Delhi on Tuesday, having been told of the tragedy by his son’s friends on Holi evening, Jeevanandam, 55, complained that the university authorities had informed neither him nor Muthukrishnan’s local guardian about the incident. The JNU administration chose not to take issues with this, and instead offered the relatives of the 27-year-old Dalit student all help, including reserving two rooms at the university guest house for their stay in Delhi as well as financial help in conducting the final rituals of the deceased student or to take his body home.
 
 The JNU Teachers’ Association, JNU administration and student organisations held separate condolence meetings during the day. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said that the university would extend the grieving family all help. “We are with them at this hour of loss,” he said.
 
 The distraught father said that when he saw his son’s body in the mortuary at AIIMS, he realised his son could not have taken his own life. “The photographs of the site of the incident showed my son’s body tied to and hanging from the ceiling fan with a long piece of cloth. His knees were bent and his feet touched the ground. The position of his body raises doubts about the claim that my son committed suicide,” he said in his complaint to police. He added that Muthukrishnan’s tongue was neither protruding nor his eyelids drooping, as is normal in cases of death by hanging.
 
 Jeevanandam, who works as watchman in Salem, Tamil Nadu, claimed that in Delhi he learnt his son was facing casteist harassment. Some of Muthukrishnan’s friends did admit that being a “shy person”, the MPhil student did not interact much with others.
 
 Contradicting initial police reports, the father also asserted, “My son was not diagnosed with any mental illness and was not under any medication for depression.” The 55-year-old insisted that “his son was social enough and it was improbable that he would commit suicide”. He said the youth had informed the family he would visit home next week to plan for his elder sister’s wedding.
 
 Vikas Kumar Moola, a friend, did, however, point out a problem that Muthukrishnan was grappling with recently. “He had chosen a professor as supervisor and was supposed to start his work with him,” disclosed Moola. “Later, however, he felt that another teacher would be a more suitable for his particular area of research and had approached him to become his guide. But the professor had not given him a confirmation, leaving him worried because he had shifted from his original supervisor.”
 
 Hailing from a poor family and brother to three sisters, Muthukrishnan had taken up odd jobs in Salem to finance his education. Earlier enrolled at the Hyderabad Central University, he had managed to get admission in JNU in July 2016 after several attempts. “He planned to pursue a career in the civil services,” said his father.
 
 The scholar’s death centred attention on the psychological needs of students at the university. In the condolence meeting on Tuesday, JNU Teachers’ Association discussed ways in which students could be made to feel they were not “isolated and alienated”.
 
 Ayesha Kidwai, president, JNUTA, said that such meetings will continue to be organised to find solutions to problems of this nature. A few students suggested better counselling and assistance at the JNU health centre for the mentally disturbed. “Most of us lack family support in the university, so having professional expertise is necessary,” said a student.
 
 
