NOIDA: Five days after a   was shot dead in Salarpur village by a few men, the mastermind and one of his accomplices were nabbed from   on Saturday. 

 The main accused, Pradeep Bhati (30), and his accomplice Amir, allegedly shot dead Pradeep’s   Sajan Bhati on July 11.
 
 Sajan, a gym trainer, had just returned from the gym to his house when some 10 criminals came in two cars and sprayed bullets at him. He received at least six bullets and died on the spot. The criminals fled from the spot after the  . 
 
 Sajan’s father Gajraj Bhati registered a case of murder against seven known persons —Pradeep Bhati, Rishipal, Shripal, Papinder, Nitin, Rinku and Kalu—and three unknown men. 
 
 The main accused Pradeep is working as a contractor and Amir a non-technician staffer at a private hospital in Kakod. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. 
 
 The police have seized a 9mm pistol, a .32 bore pistol, two cartridges and the Swift Dzire used in the crime. 
 
  Arun Kumar Singh, SP city (Noida), said the police conducted searches at the accused’s residents but they were absconding. “We put the accused on electronic and manual surveillance, and arrested Pradeep and Amir from Mahamaya flyover on Saturday night,” he said.
 
 Police said the bone of contention was a disputed land of gram sabha which the joint family of Pradeep and Sajan had occupied years ago. Pradeep had constructed some shops on the land and rented them out for Rs 30,000 per month. Pradeep started renovating the shops last month, but Sajan objected to it and forced him to stop claiming his share.
 
 Pradeep later shifted to Greater Noida and started a business with one Malkhan. Pradeep said he had invested around Rs 6 lakh in the business, but Sajan again intervened and persuaded Malkhan to break their business partnership.
 
 Pradeep got upset over his financial losses, and decided to eliminate Sajan. He asked Amir, an original resident of Aligarh, to keep a tab on Sajan’s movements. On the night of July 11, Amir informed Pradeep that Sajan had come home from the gym where he was working.
 
 Pradeep reached the spot with nine more youths armed with three pistols in a Swift Dzire and a Mahindra Scorpio. They found Sajan sitting outside his house and opened fire, killing him on spot.
 
 
