VARANASI: It may have been a climactic showstopper in a bitterly contested election – Prime Minister   coming faceto-face with CM   and Congress vice-president   at Varanasi’s Godowlia Chowk days ahead of the polling. But it was not to be.
 
  The Varanasi administration has heaved a sigh of relief that the leaders, who have mocked each other throughout the campaign, will not cross each other’s paths at the holy city’s busiest intersection as they might have as per their original schedules.
  
  With the PM on Friday changing his plan, this unprecedented security nightmare will be avoided, people familiar with the matter told ET. Earlier, both sides had proposed to cross the chowk at about 5:30 pm on Saturday evening, sending the administration into a tizzy.
  
  Yadav and Gandhi are due to hold a road show from 1pm to 7 pm on Saturday, two days before campaigning ends, and are expected to reach the chowk with about one lakh people in tow.
  
  The PM’s cavalcade, as per the original proposal of BJP to the district administration, was to start from BHU at 4:30 pm to reach Kashi Vishwanath temple at 6 pm, raising the possibility that it might have reached Godowlia Chowk at the same time as the Yadav-Gandhi duo.
  
  As per the PM’s revised plan, though, he will now land in Varanasi earlier in the day and proceed from BHU helipad at 9 am to Kashi Vishwanath temple.
  
  “We had to turn left from Godowlia Chowk and Modi’s cavalcade had to turn right,” a Congress leader said.
  
  One road from the chowk branches to the temple while another leads to Dashashwamedh Ghat.
  
  In view of the PM’s plan, the district administration had on Thursday approved the Yadav-Gandhi roadshow with one condition – that they must cross the Godowlia Chowk before 5 pm and proceed to the roadshow’s last point, Girjaghar Chowk, where they will be holding a public meeting. That would have ensured the chowk was clear of crowd when the PM’s cavalcade was to pass from here.
  
  However, now the PM has decided to visit Kashi Vishwanath and Kaal Bhairav temples earlier in the day.
  
  BJP leaders said Modi is not doing a roadshow and will travel in his car from BHU to Kashi Vishwanath temple and then to Kaal Bhairav temple. Even so, two hours have been kept for the 8 KM journey from BHU to Kashi Vishwanath temple and Modi “may acknowledge or interact” with the crowd that is expected to gather along the route through areas such as Ravidas Gate, Lanka and Assi.
  
  
 
  Instead of going first to Jaunpur for a 2 pm rally and then coming to Varanasi for the temple visits, as proposed earlier, Modi will now go to Jaunpur after his twin temple visits and return to Varanasi around 5 pm for a “jan darshan (public appearance)” at a rally in townhall.
  
  This ensures the paths of the political adversaries will not cross. “The earlier proposal was pending with the PM for many days. We already had requisite permissions for it. PM has now desired that he will start his day with the temple visits, go to Jaunpur and return to Varanasi for townhall rally. He wants it this way,” said a BJP leader said, who did not wish to be identified.
  
  Samajwadi Party’s Varanasi district president and MLC Rajesh Yadav, however, told ET that “undue pressure was put on the Varanasi administration from the Prime Minister’s Office in Delhi to impact our roadshow”. He said he had applied on February 25 for permission for the Yadav-Gandhi roadshow on March 6, the last day of campaigning.
  
  “But we were told BJP president Amit Shah had already been given for a permission for a roadshow for that day. We then asked for permission for a roadshow on March 4 from 1pm to 10 pm,” he said.
  
  BJP had on February 28 night sought permission for Modi’s visits to the two temples between 4:30 pm and 7 pm on March 4. That was when the district administration realised that the Godowlia Chowk could turn into a meeting point for the two sides and it asked the SPCongress side to clear the chowk before 5 pm and end the road show at 7 pm at another crossing.
  
  “Why should we have done that? When we had permission till 7 pm, why should we have passed Godowlia Chowk by 5 pm?”Yadav said. “Is a CM less important than a PM? We would have crossed the spot only at our own pace. Good that BJP has changed its programme.”
  
  As planned earlier, Modi is scheduled to return to Delhi from Varanasi on the night of March 4 and go back to Varanasi the next day to stay for two days, hold two more rallies and go to the Gadwaghat Math. 
