Pune: Long payment queues at supermarkets will soon be a thing of the past.

 Students of the Symbiosis Institute of Technology (SIT) have developed a cellphone application —   — that will make the entire payment process at the supermarkets a piece of cake.
 
 To use the app, citizens will have to download and install it on their cellphones. While entering a supermarket, they will have to select the supermarket they are visiting in the app. While adding items manually in their cart, they will be required to add the same items virtually in the   window. Once done with the shopping, the users can make   and show the quick response (QR) code generated to the security guard checking out of the supermarket.
 
 Currently, the students have tied up with Rashan Cart in Pashan. In the next week, the service will be extended to other supermarkets in the city, including Venus stationery and More, among others.
 
 The application has been developed by SIT students Rishabh Shukla and Abhishek Verma. Sattam Thakur, Pankaj Kumar and Swapnil Shah were also part of the team. The developers invested Rs 5-7 lakh in the app and have also got support from the Symbiosis Centre of   and Innovation (SCEI). The team now aims to market the app through flex banners at strategic locations, social media platforms, among other. 
 
 “At present, we are in talks with several super and hyper markets in Pune to get them associated with the app. We are also looking forward to launch it in Mumbai and Lucknow in the coming months,” Shukla said.
 
 Verma said the app will change the way shopping is done here. “Online shopping has in some ways reduced the joy of shopping, hitting offline stores. This app aims to bring both modes of shopping at an even level, giving vendors equal ground to market their products to a larger population while keeping up with modern technological constructs. With bringing together all the digital payment alternatives to offline shopping, and the trend of developing a cashless economy it is intended as a stepping stone towards the vision of a Digital India.”
 
 
