SECUNDERABAD: The two-day Lashkar Bonalu festivities concluded in   on Monday. The highlight of the second day was the eagerly-awaited ritual of 'Rangam' at the   temple and the procession of a caparisoned elephant carrying the photo of the goddess. 

 Earlier in the day, oracle Swarna Latha, standing atop a wet clay inside the over 200-year-old temple, predicted that the state would get bountiful rain and the goddess would take care of "everyone, whether they do service to her or not".
 
 To a specific query on the largess of the Telangana government, the oracle said, "Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his cabinet colleagues served me well and I will ensure that they will not face health issues. I will make them 'crorepatis'. The state will receive bountiful rain." 
 
 Replying to other queries, the oracle said, "Don't fear. I will treat all people as my devotees and ensure that they will not face problems."
 
 Thousands of devotees thronged the Ujjaini   temple from the early hours to witness the Rangam. Minister T Srinivas Yadav too attended the nearly 15-minute ritual. 
 
 "For the past 10 years, I have been attending Rangam. I offer Bonam to the goddess every year. Due to her blessings, my children are well settled," Divya Sree, a devotee from   said. Devotees, mainly women from neighbouring districts, also attended the Rangam. They said that the oracle's most predictions, especially on rain, came out true last year. "It's happening due to the blessings of the goddess," another devotee said. 
 
 After the tradition of Rangam, Potharajus, considered brothers of the presiding deity Mahankali, performed other rituals. Later, a procession led by a decorated elephant, carrying the photo of  , was taken out in the vicinity of the temple. 
 
 Police had made elaborate security arrangements at the temple in view of the Rangam and procession. 
 
 To a specific query on the largess of the Telangana government, the oracle said, "Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his cabinet colleagues served me well and I will ensure that they will not face health issues. I will make them 'crorepatis'. The state will receive bountiful rain.
 
