LUCKNOW: After Samajwadi Party's ideologues Ram   and Janeshwar Misra, now it’s the turn of   icons. The budget as many as 16 new schemes named after Pt  , Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Ahilyabai, Bhau Rao Devras, all idelogoues of the Sangh Parivar. A lion’s share of these schemes has gone to Upadhyay.

 Both the RSS and the BJP have been propagating Pt Deen Dayal Upadhayay's ideology on the social platform. The BJP governments — both at the Centre and the state — have launched several schemes in a bid to propagate Upadhyay's Antyodaya ideology. 
 
 One key scheme named after the Jan Sangh leader is Deendayal Antyodya Scheme-Rashtriya Shahari Aajeevika Mission. A budgetary provision of Rs 164 crore has been made for it. Upadhayay's birth place Nagla Chandrabhan in Mathura has also got special attention with an allocation of Rs 5 crore. The government provision reads: "The budget is required for promoting rural tourism." 
 
 Both Modi-led Central government and Yogi-led UP government are also celebrating Upadhyay’s birth centenary in a big way. As part of it, the UP government has decided to organise sports activities and other cultural events in 74 districts of the state. A budgetary provision of Rs 1.8 crore has been made for the purpose. 
 
 Similarly, the government has set aside Rs 9 crore for setting up of Pt Deendayal Upadhayay research chairs in all the 15 state universities, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad, Agra and Gorakhpur. Other prominent schemes include Pt Deendayal Gramodyog Rojgar Yojna with over Rs 9 crore provision; Rs 10-crore Deendayal Upadhyaya Kisan Samriddhi Yojna, Deen Dayal Upadhayay Model Nagar Panchayat yojna and Rs 30-crore Deendayal Upadhyay Solar Streetlights scheme. 
 
 Among other saffron icons, Bhau Rao Devras research chair would also be set up at Lucknow University’s commerce department. A budgetary provision of Rs 2 crore has been made for the purpose. Similarly, the government has also initiated Ahilyabai Kanya Free Education Scheme with a budgetary provision of Rs 21.12 crore for the current fiscal.
 
 The government has earmarked Rs 20 crore for setting up of two Chandrashekhar Azad Gramin Vikas Sachivalay in each nyay panchayat of the state. Similarly, Rs 213 crore have been earmarked for Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Urban Mission scheme. Mukherjee was the founder president of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh. 
 
 Naming schemes after party ideologues and icons is not a new phenomenon. Congress governments in the state earlier had named numerous schemes after Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri and Rajiv Gandhi, the BSP government in the state had launched many schemes in the name of BSP founder Kanshiram and dalit icon Dr BR Ambedkar.
 
 The previous SP government had named many schemes after Lohia and Janeshwar Misra. Lohia Awas was one of the key schemes launched by the Akhilesh government.
 
 
