CHENNAI: Garbage piling up on city beaches has become a common sight during Pongal. Beyond the Marina and Elliot’s beaches, those at Thiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam and Neelangarai are emerging as prime spots where thousands are congregating during the festival. Greater Chennai Corporation and city police had deployed extra conservancy force, mobile toilets and barricaded people from going into the sea and made arrangements in these southern beaches similar to those on the Marina and in Besant Nagar.

 “We have taken extra precautions after last year’s experience, when we saw huge amounts of garbage on these beaches,” said corporation’s regional deputy commissioner for south, Gopala Sundara Raj. “We expect massive crowds on the beaches.” On a normal day, these beaches are cleaned only in the morning, but now the corporation rotates staff to clean thrice a day. Improved infrastructure such as approach roads and street lighting are drawing people here, which consequently has led to mushrooming of hawkers. “We have started coming to the Palavakkam beach recently as it is closer to our home and we can experience the same beach food and children’s rides, which were absent a few years ago,” said Venkataraman S, who brought his family from Kalpakkam, which is an hour away from the beach.
 
 Since last year, private conservancy operator Ramky Enviro Ltd, under whose ambit Marina and Elliot’s beaches come, has been extending its services to   at Thiruvanmiyur with additional staff, tipper lorries and compactors. 
 
 On Monday, crowds seemed thinner on the Marina compared to previous years.
 
 Everyday 1 tonne waste is generated on the sands of the Marina, which increases to 15 tonnes the day after Kaanum Pongal. On the Marina, 200 extra workers began cleaning   and the service lanes as the crowd began to pour in by 4pm. The cleaning will go on till 6am on Tuesday until the next shift takes over. “Much of the sand area will be cleaned only in the morning because there will be limited visibility,” said a representative of Ramky. 
 
 Officials say garbage generation has been the usual over the weekend, but expect to clear at least 50 tonnes of garbage from all beaches after Kaanum Pongal, during which littering on the beaches will see a marked rise.
 
 Residents and experts urge a sustained campaign against littering. “Additional workers and bins help clear the place but the government must educate people so that they don’t litter,” said Prabhakaran T from Kottivakkam, a volunteer who participates in beach clean-ups.
 
 
