KANNUR: The politics of bloodshed marred the peace in the district once again on Friday, when a BJP-RSS worker, identified as  , was hacked to death near Ramanthali in the suburbs of Payyannur on Friday afternoon.He was the 12th accused in the murder of   leader Dhanaraj C V , committed in July 2016.

 The BJP has called for a dawn-to-dusk hartal in Kannur district and   on Saturday .
 
 According to police, Biju, who was riding his motorbike, was attacked with swords by a gang that came in a car at   near Payyannur around 3.45pm. He suffered deep injuries on his body , including neck, and though he was rushed to the Pariyaram Medical College hospital, he was declared brought dead. The body has been kept there for autopsy. According to BJP leaders, Biju was the Ramanthali mandalam karyavahak of the RSS and he was released on bail quite recently after he was arrested in connection with Dhanaraj murder. However, the BJP claimed that he had no role in the murder and he was let off by the police.
 
 It is suspected this murder is an act of vendetta, and the BJP leadership alleged that the CPM was behind it. The murder was committed with the knowledge of the CPM leadership, alleged BJP district president P Sathyaprakash. “Though some of the top brass in the police have got information that there were plots to annihilate the   workers with the blessings of the chief minister who is a CPM leader, the police kept quiet about it,“ he said.
 
 The murder has happened on the eve of the state conference of the NGO Union, which chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would inaugurate on Saturday , and such violence had happened earlier too, he said. The murder was committed to show their violent sensibility to the leaders who come for the union meeting, he alleged.
 
 However, the CPM distanced from the allegations and said the party had no role in the murder. The party said it strongly condemned the murder and demanded a comprehensive investigation to book the killers at the earliest. Even after the all-party peace meeting, the BJP and RSS tired to create provocation in many places but the CPM maintained restraint, said the CPM district secretariat in a statement.
 
 This is the eighth murder in the last ten months and there is concern that it might lead to further tension in the district. It was on July 12, 2016 that CPM worker Dhanaraj was hacked to death by a six-member gang at   in Ramanthali. Within hours, a BJP worker C K Ramachandran was killed apparently as an act of retaliation.
 
 Taking into consideration the volatile situation, the police have deployed a large number of police personnel in the sensitive areas of the district.
 
