NEW DELHI: Finance minister Arun Jaitley delivered his Budget speech on cue despite some uncertainty whether the exercise would be put off by a day after the sudden demise of Kerala MP  . 

 Congress members Mallikarjun Kharge, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Kamal Nath, along with other MPs, met Lok Sabha Speaker   on Wednesday morning to seek a postponement of the Budget in keeping with the practice of transacting no business when a sitting member passes away. 
 
 But when the House met, Mahajan noted that the day had been fixed by the President for presentation of the Budget which was a constitutional requirement. She said the Lok Sabha would not transact business on Thursday in honour of the departed Indian Union Muslim League member. 
 
 Sources said there were precedents when such deaths had not disrupted business. In 1974, the death of M B Rana, then minister of state for industries, saw Lok Sabha being adjourned on the morning of July 31. But the Budget was presented on schedule at 5pm. In 1954, MP Paul Jhujhar Soren passed away but the railway budget was presented before the House was adjourned. 
 
 Mahajan is understood to have told opposition leaders after she visited Ahamed’s family on Wednesday morning that in past instances, the Speaker had noted that there was a constitutional requirement for the Budget to be presented. President Pranab Mukherjee signed the relevant papers around 9am on Wednesday and Mahajan also consulted the government. 
 
 In the House, Congress and Left MPs protested but most other opposition parties did not join in. There were gaps in the Congress benches too with Rahul Gandhi walking in while the Budget speech was underway and party chief Sonia Gandhi giving the event a miss. 
 
 There was, however, high drama at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital late on Tuesday night when Ahamed’s family members claimed they were not allowed to see him. Hospital staff said the family was not allowed in the room but saw the MP through an observation glass. Kerala MPs from Congress were convinced that Ahamed had succumbed to the cardiac arrest he suffered in Parliament on Tuesday. Sonia and other Congress members went to the hospital on Tuesday and protested against the staff ’s conduct. 
 
 The unrest turned into confrontation when Ahamed’s daughter and son-in-law arrived at the hospital. When the doctor couple’s request to see the MP was turned down, they filed a police complaint against the hospital authorities. Many believed that Ahamed was dead but the hospital withheld a formal announcement on the instructions of the government.
 
