JAIPUR: Family of children suffering from rare diseases demanded from the government to introduce a policy on rare diseases and also to prepare a protocol so that life of such children can be saved.

 Jaipur-based Vikas Bhatia is one of the parents who know how much important a policy on   for the children in the state. He has lost his three children who were born with rare metabolic disease Pyruvate Carboxylase Deficiency. He is now spreading awareness for   and   after his third son’s death through his organisation MERD India. 
 
 “In our state, a lot has to be done on rare disease.   administration has taken some initiative to provide relief to such children with rare disease. We want that the government should also have facilities of OPD and clinic in each and every district for treatment of rare diseases,” Bhatia said, while pointing out the ordeal of parents with children suffering from rare diseases.
 
 He said that there are parents who have lost their children due to high cost of treatment and also due to lack of awareness of the disease. 
 
 Bhatia said, early detection of the Inborn Errors of Metabolism and Rare Diseases is the key to save and support many lives. “We demand that there should be a universal newborn screening for rare diseases,” Bhatia said. 
 
 J K Lon hospital has recently started facilities to provide 'highly expensive' enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) at its rare disease clinic. JK Lon superintendent Dr   said, “Rare disease is considered to be rare when it affects 1 person per 2000 population. While nearly all genetic diseases are rare diseases, not all rare diseases are genetic diseases. There are around 7,000 rare diseases, which have already been identified.”
 
 He pointed out that the field of rare disease suffers from a deficit of medical and scientific knowledge. “For a long time, doctors, researchers and policy makers were unaware of rare diseases and those affected by these diseases all face similar difficulties in their quest for a diagnosis, relevant information and proper direction towards its management.”
 
 Dr Gupta said, “Impressive progress has already been made for treatment of certain genetic diseases, which shows that we must not give up the fight, but on the contrary, continue and step up efforts in the fields of research and social solidarity.”
 
