CHENNAI: A month and a half into 2017,   has already recorded 1,020 H1N1 (swine flu) cases. Chennai and its neighbouring districts, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, accounted for 25% of these.

 Although   threw up a figure of 105 cases, inquiries made by TOI with just four private hospitals in the city showed that the number was much higher: Apollo Hospitals, Greams Road, saw around 80 cases, Kanchi Kamakoti  , 35, including one child current ly undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit, Sooriya hospital, 6, and Dr Mehta's Hospitals, 10. More than 500 hospitals in the city treat infectious diseases. When TOI pointed out this discrepancy in number to city health officer Dr N A Senthil Nathan, he said many of these patients may be residents from outside Chennai.
 
 “We record numbers based on which district they are from so a team can be sent to inspect the site,“ he said.
 
 Some hospitals, officials said, also delayed notification as the current case pattern is not severe.
 
 Of the 1,020 H1N1 cases in the state, Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur recorded the highest with 240 confirmed cases, attributed to overcrowding and their floating population.Coimbatore and Tirupur follow (200 each), and Vellore and Trichy (100 each).
 
 Officials say most patients have been discharged, but at any given point there are at least 30 cases admitted with suspected symptoms of the flu. The nine patients with H1N1 who died were from various districts. Director of public health K Kolandaswamy said most of the patients who died had co-morbid conditions like diabetes and asthma. “Less than one per cent suffer from complications. We are worried more about children and older people whose immune system may be compromised,“ he said, adding that the situation would be contained within two weeks.
 
 The health department vaccinated all its staff members on the field and provided them protective gear.
 
 The last time the state saw a spurt was in 2015, when close to 900 people tested positive for the influenza virus, leading to 29 deaths. This time, however, the occurrence is more scattered.
 
 “In 2015, we had 18 H1N1 hotspots in Chennai. This time the infection is more isolated as the response time for inspecting and sanitising the spot has been quick,“ a corporation official said.
 
 Officials have tied up with the school education department to spread awareness on the importance of washing hands.
 
