Mysuru: As part of the security arrangements for this year’s  , police will subject the luggage of   entering the Mysuru railway station before allowing them to enter their respective  .

 During the festive season, the railway station sees nearly 60,000 passengers pass through the turnstiles – nearly twice as many when compared to the other part of the year. South Western Railway’s Mysuru division’s security commissioner Prakash Kumar Panda said, “Passengers’ luggage will be thoroughly scanned before they enter the railway station.”
 
 The decision by the railway authorities to step up security at the station comes close on the heels of the government putting in place a security system to ensure the Dasara celebrations proceed without a hitch.
 
 Pointing to the difficulties involved in ensuring security at the railway station during Dasara, Panda said, “The number of commuters increases manifold during the festive season, and we are hard pressed to man the stations. But with the help of additional personnel being deployed for the purpose, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) is looking to screen all the passengers. Besides enhancing security at entry and exit points of the station, security on trains too will be increased. A baggage scanner will be installed at the station, besides which 15 closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras will be put in place at vantage points.”
 
 Panda appealed to the passengers to cooperate with security personnel during the scanning processes. He also requested them to reach the station ahead of schedule in order to avoid last-minute scrambles.
 
 PLATFORM TICKETS TO COST MORE
 
 South Western Railway Mysuru divisional manager Atul Gupta announced that the price of platform tickets will be hiked to Rs 20 from the existing Rs 10 with an eye on ensuring hassle-free movement for passengers from September 28 to 30. “The price of the ticket will be increased to Rs 20 for the last three days of Dasara, from September 28 to 30. The revised rates will be applicable only to Mysuru railway station, and the tickets will remain valid for two hours as usual,” said Gupta, adding that SWR had also planned additional coaches on trains to accommodate more passengers. “We will also set up additional counters to handle the crowd,” he said.
 
 
