JAIPUR: The department of women and child development in the state has two sub-departments -   and  . 

 Budget Analysis and Research Centre, Jaipur, in its recent analysis of the state budget under the women and child heads, showed that the Rs 1,896.98 crore allocated to department of women and child development in the 2017-18 budget is 17% higher than the revised budget last year. 
 
 This, however, is far from cause for celebration -- in 2015-16, the budget had decreased sharply from an initial estimate of Rs 1,781.92 to an actual spend of just Rs 208.28 crore.
 
 In her budget speech this year, chief minister   announced that anganwadi workers would be given an incentive of Rs 250-Rs 500 per month, based on work performance. Anganwadi workers are among the least paid people in the government system, and women's groups have been demanding that these women - almost all such workers are women - should be given minimum wages.
 
 The Rajshree scheme, announced last year at a budget of about Rs100 crore to enable families to   the education of their daughters, has now been linked to the Bhamashah platform. This scheme would apply to girls born after June 2016, so these kids are still some way from attending school.
 
 There are 39 Mahila Sahla Suraksha Kendras in the state, meant to counsel women in distress and take a load of the police force. However, only Rs 1.5 crore has been allocated for the running of all 39 centres -- less than Rs4 lakh per centre for the year. The Aparajita scheme, under which one-stop centres for crisis management for women were to come up, has only one centre in  , Jaipur. Although the CM has announced that 15 more districts will have such centres, the budgetary allocation for this is only Rs 1 crore.
 
 BARC noted that many promises made in the   manifesto remain unfulfilled even three years after the government came to power: Schemes were promised to provide loans at low interest to aid self-employment among women and encourage them to take to animal husbandry and food processing, for instance, but no progress has yet been made in this matter. Dhanlakshmi Kendras - markets where women could sell their products were promised in the manifesto, but they are still to come up.
 
 The impact of gender budgeting is also rather difficult to actually assess, since sex segregated data of beneficiaries is not available in most departments. 
 
 
