The   in Subroto Park regularly screens movies but 
  evening, the defence establishment was particularly decked up for a rather special screening. Usually, such preparations are reserved for the chief of staffs or the occasional visiting foreign military commander. This time, however, the guest of honour was simply a Group Captain, and that too an honorary one. However, what set this guest apart was his claim to fame apart from being an honorary   officer. Cricket icon   attended the first screening of his upcoming biopic Sachin: A Billion Dreams at the auditorium, which was attended by a packed house containing Air Force officers and their families.

  
  
 Talking about why he chose to hold the first screening of his movie for Air Force personnel, Sachin said, “The day I decided to do this movie, the first thought that came into my mind was that the first screening should be done for the personnel of the Indian armed forces. When I played and used to go out to bat, it was always me as an individual but along with me, there were three teams – one was in the dressing room, one was at home praying for me, and one was a billion plus people wishing well for me. So, here, I am standing in front of all of you and I take this opportunity on behalf of the billion plus people of this country to thank the armed forces for all that they do for us. I have come here to thank our real heroes on behalf of the nation.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
  at screening (Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 The chief of air staff, Air Chief Marshall BS Dhanoa, also watched the film. He later told us, “It was a wonderful movie and it is something I have lived through. I joined the Air Force before Sachin started playing cricket. I have seen his whole career and it is really very inspiring.” Recounting his – and the Air Force’s connections with Sachin’s career - the Air Force chief said, “Another good thing I discovered and even told Sachin was that he is releasing his movie on the 26th of May, which is the day when we started air operations in Kargil. I also remember, during the Kargil conflict, I was in Srinagar and that was the time we beat Pakistan in that famous game (on June 8, 1999, during the 1999 World Cup), and I remember how proud all of us felt about it.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Following the screening, Sachin, along with wife Anjali, met some of the audience members and even posed for selfies with the younger fans. Namrata Sathish, a student, told us, “I didn’t get a picture with him but I managed to shake like half his hand and that was more than enough for me. It was an amazing experience to watch his biopic with him.”
 
 
  
 
