JAISALMER: Madhya Pradesh chief minister   during his visit here announced that BSF jawans will not be charged toll tax on private and government vehicles in MP. He announced this on Saturday night while addressing the jawans at Babliyan border outpost adjoining Tanot. Chouhan also paid tribute to the martyrs of 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak wars.

 When BSF apprised Chouhan on the problem, he immediately called his private secretary and directed him to issue orders to make government and private vehicles of BSF jawans toll-free in MP. The jawans will only have to show their ID cards at the toll plaza, he said. The CM applauded the jawans on the way they guard the borders and saluted them for their selfless service. 
 
 Chouhan also said that ‘Ma Tujhe Salam’ programme is going on in MP to inform children about the border situation and the tough duty of jawans at the border. Here, the children take the sand of their villages and apply ‘tilak’ on the forehead of jawans.
 
 Addressing a press conference on Sunday, he said that the Tanot Temple is a centre of power and after offering prayers here he felt re-energised. 
 
 He said he really enjoyed the ‘aarti’ hour at the temple. 
 
 When asked about the reason for visiting the temple, he said earlier too he had come here and was planning to visit again. But, his programme got cancelled many times. Two days ago, he decided to come to Tanot. He said that Ramdeora Temple in Jaisalmer has been included in the CM pilgrimage scheme and special arrangements have been made to bring elderly people aged 60 years and above to Ramdeora. Apart from this, special arrangements have been made to bring other devotees to Ramdeora.
 
 He said, in the coming elections in Gujarat, BJP will win with huge majority and in Himachal with change in power, BJP will form the government. He added that the Raje government is doing good work in Rjasthan. On the cases of suicides in MP, Chouhan told the media to visit his state and see the situation for themselves. At the time of Chouhan’s departure, 30-40 Rajput youths started shouting slogans in support of slain gangster Anandpal Singh and showed black flags to his convoy.
 
