Gurgaon: If there are power cuts in summer when consumption peaks, shortage cannot be used as an excuse. 

 The Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) is rolling out a raft of measures, including setting up new power houses and more sub-stations to increase power supply to Gurgaon, senior power officials told TOI on Monday. As   works towards steadily increasing the transmission capacity across the city, its officials claimed the transmission company cannot be blamed for frequent power cuts in Gurgaon.
 
 After reaching close to its target of increasing the transmission capacity of the 15 existing power houses across the city by 206 MVA (mega volt ampere) in the current financial year (2016-2017), HVPNL now aims to increase the transmission capacity by 229 MVA in the next financial year (2017-2018), Anil Yadav, executive engineer, HVPNL, said. The series of measures will ensure efficient power supply in the city, he asserted.
 
 The power transmission company will also set up new power houses to increase the transmission capacity by an additional 1,120 MVA across the Gurgaon circle. “The existing transmission capacity is 1,400 MVA. We are setting up powerhouses in Sector 33, Panchgaon, Sector 57 and Sector 20 that will add another, 320, 300, 200 and 300 MVA respectively,” Yadav added.
 
 Referring to power cuts in many localities of the city in the past few weeks, a senior official said HVPNL has ensured constant power supply throughout. “It’s not that Gurgaon is not able to meet the power requirement (1400 MVA in summers and 600 MVA in winters). The supply has remained steady from our end, however, the end user suffers due to infrastructural issues. The city faces disruptions. Terming it as outage hints at power shortage,” the official said, throwing the ball in power discom DHBVN’s court.
 
 The HVPNL official added, “We only need to lay all power lines underground so that we are spared of disruptions due to rainfall and tripping. By doing that, we won’t even require the zero-outage grid project to ensure 24-hour supply.”
 
 Saying DHVBN is trying to ensure minimum power disruptions, RK Batra, director (operations),  , said, “Disruptions are usually due to the maintenance work. We scale up the maintenance work in winters to minimise power cuts in summers.”
 
 HVPNL has divided the power transmission across new sectors in six zones where six new substations would be set up. “In the new sectors (sectors 58 to 115), the demand is nearly 1,200 MVA, close to the supply across Gurgaon (1,400 MVA). It is estimated that power demand across Gurgaon, including in the new sectors, will reach 5,000 MVA by 2031,” Yadav explained. In a bid to address these concerns, HVPNL announced two years ago that it will set up 42 new substations in the emerging sectors by 2050. At present, contract for only two out of six substations, which will be set up in the next one year, has been awarded to Kalpatru Power Transmission Limited. 
 
 “The contract has already been awarded for sectors 65 and 95,” Yadav said. “For sectors 77 and 85, we are finalising the tenders and it will take us up to 15 days. For sectors 107 and 69, we will award the contract in the next two months,” he added.
 
 
