CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Wednesday extended its stay on the conduct of a floor test in the   assembly till further orders.

 Justice M Duraiswamy passed the interim order on the plea moved by 18 disqualified rebel legislators of the  , as all the parties concerned -the legislators, speaker and the DMK --agreed to the interim order passed on September 14 being extended.
 
 This apart, the court also directed that there shall not be any notification for conducting the election to the 18 constituencies that had been declared vacant pursuant to the disqualification order dated September 18. The judge then posted the pleas to October 4 for final hearing.
 
 When the pleas came up for hearing in jam-packed court hall 23, senior counsel  , representing the legislators, said, “No   had defected to any other party and so the penal ac tion against them under the anti-defection law is untenable. The speaker had failed to keep in mind the SC ruling in the B S Yeddyurappa case.They had been stripped of their posts only to enable the government to sail through a trust vote,“ he added. They had been unlawfully stripped of their posts on ly to enable the   government to sail through a confidence motion, Dave added. Reiterating that the anti-defection law had been illegally invoked, Dave said the legislators had merely given a representation to the governor expressing lack of confidence in the chief minister. They neither voluntarily gave up their posts nor denied a whip, and yet they were disqualified because the speaker failed to try and ascertain the truth, argued Dave.
 
 Pointing out that no such disqualification was initiated against O Pannerselvam and 11 other legislators who voted against confidence vote moved by chief minister Palaniswami on February 18, Dave said, “But instead Pannerselvam has been given the deputy chief minister's post.“
 
 Noting that the speaker was bound to act within the Constitution, counsel said, “In the present case, the speaker had acted like a political person. People sitting in Delhi are deciding the affairs of Tamil Nadu.“ Strongly opposing the allegation, Aryama Sundaram, senior counsel representing speaker Dhanapal, said it would not be fair to blame or bring the Centre into the controversy .
 
 C S Vaidyanathan, who argued on the CM's behalf, contended that, given the seriousness of the allegations, time had to be given to file a reply.
 
