
 BHOPAL:Madhya Pradesh   on Friday witnessed a heated debate over corruption and high-handedness of officials in PM Awas Yojana allotments. Congress MLAs stated in the House that   was threatening poor beneficiaries to vacate the place, who had been staying in the area for long time. 
 
 Raising the issue during call attention motion, Congress MLA Jitu Patwari alleged that the government was giving benefit to land mafia by removing poor beneficiaries from areas where they were staying for last 20 to 30 years.
 
 “In the name of PM Awas Yojana, the government is trying to help land mafia in Indore by vacating poor beneficiaries from commercial area. The government has planned evacuation of families in stages while poor families are being threatened by mafia to quit the place,” alleged Patwari in the House.
 
 When government has taken initiatives in interest of poor and providing them pattas at places they live, a few officials conniving with the land mafia are threatening people with dire consequences, he said. People in Ishwar Nagar, Ratlam and some colonies in Indore were afraid of municipal drive and guarding their areas during night, he complained.
 
 Denying any such move, state urban development and housing minister Maya Singh clarified that the PM Awas Yojana is meant for rehabilitating urban poor in slums and if needed, providing financial assistance to build their own house.
 
 In Ishwar Nagar, Ratlam, and some areas of Indore were developed in the interest of poor beneficiaries. The government provides them all possible help and any move to remove them from their place or vacate the area is not a part of the scheme, the minister said.
 
 Dissatisfied with minister’s reply, Patwari said instructions should be given to officials of municipal corporation and the housing department to ensure people living in commercial pattas will not be vacated. 
 
 During the debate, Patwari was confronted by BJP MLAs, Shankarlal Tiwari, Bahadur Singh Chauhan which resulted into heated exchange between the two parties. Later, Speaker Sitasaran Sharma intervened and calmed down the MLAs to stick to the discussion without personal remarks. The clamour continued for 10 minutes till the Speaker changed the topic and invited next member to raise his query.
 
 
