KOLKATA: A vast section of   in Behala remained tense on Tuesday after news spread that a youth had punched a senior citizen - a trader residing in the Bagpota area of Sarsuna - to death. Police sources said that the victim had protested to the youth rioting inside a local shop on Sunday, the day of Holi. Cops have identified the victim as Md Kaseem (60), who owned a cotton shop in the Sarsuna area. The accused, identified as one Anupam Chakraborty (22) was allegedly in an inebriated state when he attacked the elderly victim around 3.30 pm on Sunday. “He had consumed alcohol and demanded some sweets from a local sweet shop. When this owner said he will not hand over sweets for free, Anupam began rioting at the shop and breaking up furniture. Those around rushed in to stop him. Anupam – who had a history of violent behaviour following psychiatric problems even in the past – noticed Kaseem around him and punched him right on the chest. Kaseem collapsed on the ground almost immediately,” said an investigating officer.

 Police said that locals rushed the victim to a nursing home in the   area. When his condition worsened, Kaseem was shifted to the BM Birla hospital where he died on Tuesday morning. A section of the locals caught hold of Anupam and beat him up leaving him with injuries on his hand and face. He was rushed to the   from where he was granted bail on Monday. Since then, Anupam has been absconding. The cops have amended the FIR lodged under IPC 325 (hurt) and have prayed to court to add section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). “We have also moved court to cancel his bail,” said DC (Behala) Meeraz Khalid. Sources said that they are talking to eyewitnesses to ascertain the exact nature of events.
 
 Cops insisted the primary postmortem report has suggested that Kaseem suffered a massive heart attack after being punched on his chest, but the real cause of death can be ascertained only when they receive the final report. Massive police arrangements have been made to maintain peace in the area. The body was handed over to the family in the evening. Police officers said that all efforts have been launched to nab the accused.
 
