BENGALURU: The state government’s move to introduce 50% domicile reservation in the prestigious National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has run into a roadblock. While governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala has reportedly sought clarifications from the government on some issues related to the recently passed bill, it is being opposed by the   Bangalore Alumni Association and some founding directors of the institution. 

 However, law secretary N C   said the department is confident of getting the governor’s nod since the law university was established under the Karnataka Act and the state legislature has the power to bring about changes. “We met the governor to clarify some doubts and are awaiting his assent to the bill anytime,” said Sreenivas. 
 
 The secretary added the National Law School of India (Amendment) Bill 2017 cannot be challenged legally too since it does not entail reservation only for Kannadigas but all those who have made Karnataka their home for about 10 years. “Many think the reservation is based on place of birth, which is not allowed as per law. But this quota is based on place of domicile and it has been accepted by courts too. This kind of reservation already exists in several states, including   (30%) and Odisha (60%),’’ he said.
 
 The NLSIU Bangalore Alumni Association has petitioned the government and legal associations, unequivocally condemning the move. The association, which is a registered trust of NLSIU alumni and has a governing board of nine senior lawyers, has strongly criticized passage of the bill without proper consultation and debate. The legislation undermines the very character and basis of the national institution that NLSIU is, the petition reads. The association has also decided to legally challenge the bill with the support of the student bar association.
 
 
 
 
 “I am not in favour of reservation for the simple reason that it would dilute the very spirit of the national institution, which was set up in 1986 when late Ramakrishna Hegde was chief minister. NLSIU, being a model institution for the rest of the country, should remain a national institution and students should earn admission on merit rather than the place of domicile or birth,” said NLSIU’s founding vice-chancellor prof NR  .
 
 Though the institution was set up under the Karnataka Act, Hegde wanted the university to be independent and did not meddle with the admission or selection process, he said. “That’s the reason it has reached where it is today. Of the top 100 students who qualify in the Common Law Admission Test aspire to join NLSIU, Bengaluru. But with the new reservation policy, I am sure this would not happen like has been the case in other states. There is a chance there would be reservation for faculty too,” Menon added.
 
 
 
 Last month, the National Law School of India (Amendment) Bill, 2017 was passed unanimously after the   government acceded to the demands of BJP and JD(S) MLAs to increase quota for Karnataka students from 30% to 50%.
 
