Everyone loves a hug — whether it’s a cuddle with a loved one after a long day, a comforting squeeze from your kids, with a colleague post a successful deal, coupled with a fist bump during a match or with your pet. Hugs are the most universal form of expression and it’s no wonder then, that there is an internationally-recognised observation that celebrates this simple yet beautiful non-verbal form of communication.
 
 
  
  
 Heeru Dhingra, HR director in a digital company, believes having a pet to hug at the workplace just adds more life to the environment and culture there. “I think more pets should be allowed in offices and you should have them sitting right next to you. People today are so stressed out, not as much professionally as from the personal sphere. They walk into the workplace thinking that they can ‘cut off’ when they come in, but that does not really happen. You also hear of so many people who feel depressed, suicidal even. And high stress levels apart, the job itself can be so demanding. For instance, people are hooked onto mobiles and gadgets, 
 especially in a digital agency like ours. But having a pet around to hug breaks into that. It provides comfort and reassurance and pets actually make things simple. The only thing they want is warmth and a hug and they give that unconditionally. Reaching out and embracing a dog or cat suddenly changes the whole morale of the office. As the corporate staff engages with pets, it also slows down the pace, drastically. You realise that there’s more to life in little moments like these. I wish more offices adopt this mantra. After all, it takes a moment to change the moment and I don’t see reaching out to give a hug as any disturbance.” 
 
 
  
  
 Sounds simple right? Do it today. It has been known that being around trees can alter your mood, bust depression and increase energy levels. And now, research says hugging a tree is what you should be doing more often to boost your well-being. As per a report, studies say that if you hug a tree, it can alter your health positively as it ‘alters your vibrational frequency’. 
 
 
  
  
 A free hug with a coffee sounds like a win-win combination, doesn’t it? That’s exactly what a few cafés abroad have adopted as their philosophy. The UK’s first cuddle   with furry toys, is aimed to stimulate your happy  . It lets diners pay for their hot tea, biscuits, etc, all for the price of a hug. Designed with the sole purpose of increasing happiness levels, these hugging or cuddle cafes are springing up across the world. While cat cafés are a big draw, you can also hug bunnies at cafés in Japan.
 
 
  
  
 Why are hugs so feel-good? A single hug is said to produce the ‘love hormone’  , which works on the brain’s emotional centre, alleviating anxiety and boosting feelings of contentment. It reduces the heartbeat making a person complacent. A hug also releases endorphins and serotonin into the blood vessels, causing a happy, elevated feeling and negating sadness. Says Mumbai-based psychological counsellor Dr  , “Hugs are important as they signify bonding. It could be with a lover, parent, senior, colleague or anyone. It reduces negative mental symptoms and roadblocks in the mind. As it works on the present moment, it can instantly change anyone’s life. It’s also one of the biggest boosters as it signifies acceptance and that is the crux of life. So, go ahead and hug a loved one, today.”
 
 
 
 
 Given by someone from the back, it has the hugger wrapping his arms around the person being hugged and brings about a sense of security and of being sheltered.
 
 
 
 That’s the one that you will see most world leaders giving. It exudes warmth and positivity, but with a certain distance. 
 
 
 
 
 Impromptu and filled with emotion, this could be an embrace or tight-locked bear hug and comes from a complete adrenalin rush and sense of achievement.
 
 
 
 A crushing hug, quite literally, this is about wrapping your arms around someone in a powerful embrace. It’s between two people who are not conscious of each other and it has no pretensions. 
 
 
 
 This is from someone who loves you and won’t let go. It’s romantic and says he or she is into you.
 
 Pure romance, this signifies love and is about holding onto a partner’s waist while the other wraps arms around the hugger’s neck.
 
 Can happen between family, colleagues or just about anyone and is a reassuring, ‘I’m there for you’. It’s more like social etiquette, really.
 
 
 
  
  This one is for anyone, any age. Nothing beats hugging a larger-than-life Shrek or Hobbes. A study by a university in Amsterdam says hugging soft toys can also relieve existential angst. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
