PATNA: Sun-fried   can expect respite on May 18 to 20 with the Patna Meteorological Centre issuing a forecast for rainfall across the state around the weekend.

 A day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced the onset of southwest monsoon in Nicobar, weathermen at the Met office in Patna said on Monday that a trough line along with two induced cyclonic circulations in the region would lead to scattered to fairly widespread rainfall across entire Bihar. 
 
 According to weather scientist Anand Shankar, the trough line extends from east UP to Arunachal Pradesh via Bihar and Gangetic West Bengal. The two cyclonic circulations, on the other hand, are situated over east UP and Bangladesh. 
 
 “The moisture-incursion from the two cyclonic circulations along with the trough line is expected to lead to significant rainfall along with gusty winds across Bihar for at least three days, starting May 18,” Shankar told TOI.
 
 The IMD on Sunday said the southwest monsoon advanced into some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands, entire south Andaman sea and some parts of north Andaman Sea. The onset of monsoon clouds over Nicobar Islands this year is three days ahead of normal onset.
 
 The national weather forecaster stated on Monday conditions were favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of southwest Bay of Bengal, some more parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Andaman sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands and some parts of east-central Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours.
 
 Monsoon normally arrives in Bihar through the north eastern districts of Purnia and Katihar, among others, on June 10. It covers the remaining parts of the state over the next two days.
 
 According to the Met office in Patna, the frequency of pre-monsoon showers in Bihar has been comparatively better this year. The IMD considers the showers received in the months of March, April and May as pre-monsoon rainfall. 
 
 “Bihar has received 70mm rainfall since March 1 this year against the corresponding normal of 73.5mm. We are expecting more showers in the coming days,” said Shankar.
 
 Most places in Bihar, except a couple of southwestern districts, received thundershowers for three-four days starting May 8. The Met office attributes such pre-monsoon thundershowers to Nor’wester. 
 
 As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, thereby brewing a typical Nor’wester.
 
 The Nor’wester acts helps bring down the temperature in summer months. The Met office has predicted that the maximum temperature in Patna will drop from 37-38 degree C being recorded for the past few days to below 35 degree C during the showers expected around the weekend.
 
 
