PUNE: After a   over the last fortnight,   seems to have once again graced the city, with   26mm rain in the 24-hours until Friday morning.

 The showers are expected to continue here till July 17, followed by moderate rains until July 20. With the latest spell of rain, the city’s total since June has increased to 253.4mm as against a normal of 222.3mm. Despite the subdued rainfall in the recent fortnight, Pune still has a surplus of 31.1mm.
 
 Meanwhile,   has once again been featured among the wettest places in the country on Friday, with heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of the state. Rainfall has revived in the state, with most of the month expected to witness good showers.
 
 The highest quantum of rain was noted at spots such as Karjat, Pen, Matheran, Igatpuri, Bhira, Mahabaleshwar and Nashik among others, on Friday. At these locations, the rain figure surpassed 100mm in the last 24 hours.
 
 Areas in Madhya Maharashtra also recorded triple-digit, heavy to very heavy rainfall including Igatpuri and Trimbakeshwar. Heavy rainfall was recorded at Mahabaleshwar and Vadgaon, which received over 100mm rain from Thursday to Friday morning, while Paud and Mulshi close to Pune recorded heavy rains on the same lines in the 24-hour period.
 
 Karjat and Pen in Konkan witnessed the highest amount of rainfall in the state at 240mm, Matheran and Bhira followed close behind with 200mm and 180mm rainfall.
 
 Other IMD stations such as Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Malegaon and Parbhani recorded double-digit rainfall in the 24-hour period, with Nashik leading the pack at 71.6mm rainfall. Pune recorded 26mm rain, while Mumbai recorded 30mm in this period.
 
 The Met department had recently forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over northern parts of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan between July 13 and 15, owing to a well-marked low pressure area over west Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood.
 
 A senior IMD official told TOI that the well-marked low pressure area over West Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood is creating conditions for good rainfall over northern Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and parts of Marathwada. 
 
 “This system is expected to move further westward over the Gujarat region and is likely to become a depression around July 16. Along with another low pressure over northwest Bay of Bengal around July 16, this will cause enhanced rainfall activity over north Konkan and north Madhya Maharashtra,” the official stated.
 
 IMD has forecast heavy rain at isolated places in Madhya Maharashtra on July 15 and July 18. The forecast also mention a few spells of rain in Pune until July 17, followed by intermittent spells on the next day and moderate rain on July 19 and 20.
 
 For now, Southwest monsoon has advanced into some more parts of West Rajasthan covering segments of Jaisalmer, Phalodi, Nagaur during the last 24 hours, IMD stated on July 14.
 
