NEW DELHI: More than a year after a six-year-old boy drowned in a water tank at   in Vasant Kunj, police have filed a chargesheet against the school administrator, the principal and the class teacher for causing  . Cops have found that multiple cases of negligence for days led to the accident on January 31, 2016 causing Divyansh Kakrora’s death. They have, however, ruled out foul play. 

 The cops have named the school administrator, Francis Thomas, as an accused. He was responsible for safety inside the school. The principal, Sandhya Sabu, and Divyansh’s class teacher,  , were cited as co-accused. 
 
 The chargesheet was filed before a district court on Thursday. Police officers say there was a delay in filing the chargesheet as they were waiting for the final reports of some tests conducted by the forensic laboratory. 
 
 Cops attached the autopsy report, which said that Divyansh had choked due to water in his lungs, with the chargesheet. When police went to the school to probe the incident, they found the door to the tank locked. The school ground in charge, Puran Singh, gardener Ram Narayan and pump operator Yogesh were charged with trying to tamper with evidence as they had closed the gate to the amphitheatre that led to the tank. 
 
 Police recovered CCTV footage which showed Divyansh playing near the ampitheatre minutes before the incident, after which he spoke to some of his friends. Later, the footage showed a school security guard carrying him in his arms asking for help. The investigators said that there were no CCTV cameras installed near the ampitheatre which could help the school authorities monitor children going into the room that housed the tank. 
 
 Moreover, police said that the recovery of balls and notebooks inside the tank showed it was not the first time that children had entered the pump room or the tank. Cops say that the school authorities were habitually negligent about the tank and had even tried to blame children after the incident. Cops have also cited the statements of some of the classmates Divyansh had spoken to, the doctors who had conducted the autopsy and security guards who carried Divyansh to the medical room of the hospital. Calls and messages to school chairman Augustine Francis Pinto and MD Grace Pinto went unanswered.
 
