NAGPUR: An RTI query filed by a vigilant citizen has revealed brazen violations committed by the Bhonsala Military School in its expansion plans over the years. Allotted only 30 acres of land on lease, it has encroached upon another 70 acres, which is 2 1/2 times of the legal area.

 Currently, the school is also illegally excavating murrum (red gravel) from a hillock thus causing environmental damage. 
 
 The school, run by the  , was started about 20 years ago with an aim to inculcate patriotism and discipline among children. It is located at Chakkikhapa near Godhni and is entirely zudpi jungle area where no activity can be done without forest permission. 
 
 After collecting the facts through RTI from tehsildar of Nagpur (rural), Chakkikhapa resident   complained to collector Praveen Darade on September 6, 2011. Following this, an inquiry was conducted by the tehsildar and patwari the result of which is not known.
 
 RTI documents given to Sisodia by   (rural) also show that the school illegally constructed a road on survey number 120. 
 
 The Society had got the 30-acre on an annual lease of Rs1 for setting up a military school. The current market value of the land it is illegally occupying would be around Rs1.51 crore. In addition, as it is a zudpi jungle, the Society will have to pay net present value (NPV) for compensatory afforestation. It will also have to pay stamp duty at the rate of 6.5%, which comes to Rs9.75 lakh. The government has thus incurred a loss of around Rs1.6 crore.
 
 Even though the revenue department is aware of the encroachment, no action is being taken against the school. The concerned talathi, who should have immediately reported it to the tehsildar, is also sitting tight. District collector   says that he will take action only if a written complaint is received. The society totally denies any wrongdoing on its part. However following TOI’s conversation with Kurve, a panchnama was conducted by the talathi, with Sisodiya as a witness.
 
 According to Sisodiya, the Society started encroaching on adjoining land from 1997 itself when construction of the school buildings started.
 
 The school is located in survey number 64/2 as per government records. It has now encroached 21.19 hectares on survey number 64/1, 6.38 hectares on survey number 63 and 5.94 hectares on survey number 66. The society wants to buy the remaining 70 acres land but the proposal remains pending at Mantralaya level.
 
 The encroachment starts right from the entrance of the school, alleged Sisodiya. “Some of the school buildings like dormitories are on encroached land. Now the school is further encroaching on government land to construct an equestrian track right near the entrance,” he said. This is not clear from the revenue department map as it does not show any landmarks.
 
 For constructing the track, the school authorities are illegally excavating red gravel from a hillock that allegedly lies on zudpi jungle land. TOI visited the spot recently and saw that a large part of the hillock up to a depth of four feet was dug out. According to workers on the spot, the levelled part is being converted into a parking slot. 
 
 Last week, Sisodiya sent a text message to collector Sachin Kurve following which the patwari conducted a spot visit.
 
 TOI learnt that about five years ago, an adjoining hillock was levelled for creating a school activity area.
 
 According to district mining officer SP Kadu, permission is mandatory for digging even a foot on one’s own land. “If you dig up government’s land, it is a punishable offence under Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966,” he added.
 
 Sisodiya further alleged that the school management pressurized the National Highway Authority to stop work on the outer ring road, which it did three months ago. “The road passes through the equestrian track where the annual function will be held in the next few days,” the Chakkikhapa resident added.
 
 Even though the NHAI denied Sisodiya’s allegations, TOI spotted road construction machinery lying idle near the school entrance.
 
 Central Hindu Education Society’s secretary   denied any “encroachment”. “There is no construction in the adjoining area. We had sent the proposal for acquiring the extra land in 2005 and it was cleared by the divisional commissioner last April,” he said. But Joglekar has no proof of it. “Since these are internal government documents and we don’t have any record,” he added.
 
 Joglekar also said that since the levelling of the hillock is “on our own land, we don’t need any permission”.
 
 Kurve said that he would take action against the school only on receipt of a written compliant from Sisodiya. Chakkikhapa talathi PK Shambharkar had no explanation why no show cause notice was issued to the school.
 
 Sisodiya, who had filed a written complaint in 2011 to the then district collector, said that he had sent a text message to Kurve some days back. “Last week, a patwari also conducted spot inspection but no concrete action was taken,” he said adding that action was not being taken under political pressure.
 
 
