He has never differentiated between mediums to showcase his acting chops. Amid signing up a film,   has taken time off to work on the TV show ' '. This will be his debut in the fiction genre after featuring and winning the reality show 'Khatron Ke Khiladi'.

 Many Bollywood actors take up projects on TV for money. Was it the case with Rajniesh, too? “I made my money by doing five films last year. So, that’s not a concern. Having said that, I have my reservations on TV; I can’t ever play a quintessential hero, a doting husband or an obedient son. However, I want to work on all mediums. I was looking at doing an interesting mini series and 'Aarambh' seemed just perfect. TV isn’t a small medium anymore and soon we will see small-budget films releasing on the small screen. Also, there is a strange connection I have with history and time, mainly reincarnation and karma. Most of my films and 'Aarambh' have touched upon the topic of past life. I tend to tilt towards the projects based in time,” he replies, adding, “Maybe, they got me on 'Aarambh' to attract more women (laughs). We want to make seeti-maar TV.”
 
 While he can afford to choose his projects on TV, Bollywood has been a different story. But the actor has no complains. He says, “There are certain projects I have done, which I am not too proud of, but you learn from mistakes. Again, it’s my journey and the choice I made along the way. Being a hero, the film is on your shoulders, so yes, my shoulders are bruised a bit (laughs!). However, I know I am in for long haul. I know God is with me and he is my Godfather. I am among the top choices to play the hero in a medium-budget film. I am an A-lister in the B-rung making me the A in B. I am the best athlete in my sector. I assure full recovery and I am happy with it. I am a competitive actor, but not insecure.”
 
 Despite standing by his decisions — good and bad — he has just one regret in life. The actor repents kissing on screen as he feels that his mushy reel act must have upset his wife. “Pallavi (his wife) and I were clear that I will never kiss on screen. I declined several projects because of the same. But I made an exception during ' ' thinking that times have changed. I would call that a mistake as that could have hurt my partner. Maybe, she doesn’t show it but even I would have been uncomfortable if she were to do that. I have a daughter, too. Also, there is no need to do it as there are enough people doing that anyway,” he signs off.
 
