AMRITSAR: The   is apprehensive of a   in the event of former BJP member of Parliament Navjot Singh 
  joining the Congress party even as his wife and BJP MLA from Amritsar East assembly constituency Navjot Kaur Sidhu has already shifted loyalty to the Congress ahead of the assembly elections in the state.

 A group of Sidhu loyalists held a meeting on Monday to decide the future course of action if Sidhu announces his decision to join the Congress party. A leader of a BJP faction, mostly comprising former Sidhu loyalists, who didn't want to give his name told TOI on Monday, "We are supporters of Sidhu not because he is a celebrity but a sincere leader having vision for Punjab and his personality and character is unblemished. Besides, he is a hope of Punjab." 
 
 He said sooner or later, they had to decide whether to stay with the BJP or join Sidhu's bandwagon with Congress party. However, he didn't disclose what transpired in their meeting. "Let the time come. Everything will be out in open," he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While expressing ignorance about any meeting of Sidhu supporters, Somdev Sharma, one of Sidhu loyalists but a staunch BJP worker who was also spokesperson of BJP unit, said, "There is no question over his sincerity and clean image, but Sidhu never even once thought about his supporters and followers who had been working for him day and night." 
 
 Sharma said there was much resentment against Sidhu not because he had shifted loyalty but because he kept his supporters in dark. 
 
 While discounting possibility of any split in the party following Navjot Singh Sidhu's joining hand with the Congress, district BJP president Rajesh Huny said, "Navjot Kaur Sidhu had joined the Congress for past nearly over a month, but not a single BJP worker has gone with her. Similarly, no dedicated worker of the BJP will side with Navjot Singh Sidhu, as everyone in BJP has now realised that both of them are opportunists."
 
 Sources said that even in the Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu could be a threat to the political future of Captain Amarinder Singh given his political ambitions in the state.
 
 After resignation of Navjot Kaur Sidhu, the party high command is facing tough time in selecting a candidate since several BJP leaders including Rajesh Huny, Rama Mahajan, Sukhminder Singh etc. have staked claim for the Amritsar East assembly constituency. Huny said, "Yes, I am one of the aspirants, but we will abide by the party high command's decision."
 
 Meanwhile, there is a tough competition going on for the ticket for Amritsar Lok Sabha seat which was vacated after the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh. Though BJP's former state vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chhina is lobbying for the ticket, sources in the party said that the BJP high command was interested in fielding some celebrity. 
 
 Sources said that party leaders were in touch with Bollywood actors Sunny Deol, Anupam Kher as well as some former cricketers. "We want to bring a person of Sidhu's stature at least," said a senior party leader, who didn't want to give his name. 
 
