BENGALURU: The allure of start-ups may already be fading as far as fresh graduates from premier management institutes such as Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, is concerned. Not only have fewer startups turned up for campus recruitment this year, students too preferred to go with established names rather than face the volatility of a new venture.

 Vaibhav Gupta, who bagged the gold medal for best all-round performance in postgraduate programme in management (PGP), said: “Most people who are graduating this year are well aware of the funding scenario in the start-up sector. Venture funds are drying up and start-ups are not the first choice for many. Also, the market is changing and there are other factors that indicate a lot of upheaval in the start-up sector. And, so, established companies are the flavour of the season this year.“
 
 Even the management of IIM-B agreed that participation from e-commerce companies was lower this year compared with 2016.In this sector, Amazon made the highest number of offers (12) while other e-commerce companies, such as Ola, Uber, Paytm, Myntra, Cloudtail and Swiggy, made only a handful of offers.
 
 Recruitment from startups was down to half from last year. There was also some confusion after a few start-ups delayed the joining process after participating in placements. This also made the business school wary of start-ups coming for campus placements.
 
 Dharmendra Hiranandani, second rank holder in PGP and a gold medalist, said: “In the last few years, the IIMs have hiked their fees. It is not much when compared with the quality of education being imparted here, but at the same time many students who join the institute have to repay their student loans and with the current situation of start-ups, especially the e-commerce sector many are sceptical about joining them.“
 
 Earlier, maximum recruitments by start-ups, especially in the e-com segment, were for graduates specialised in marketing, but this year the dearth of hiring from start-ups has been balanced by traditional companies offering attractive salaries to marketing graduates, bridging the gap that was created by the e-commerce sector.
 
 Even students who sat for placements were not keen on joining startups as they had other, better options.Most of the toppers said though the volume of recruitments had come down from previous years, there were plenty of good offers and many firsttime companies also participated in the hiring process.
 
 Udit Jalan, gold medalist and first rank holder in academic performance in the PGP, said: “Start-ups were a craze on campus when venture funds were flowing in the country and great offers were made by companies to the graduates. The current market situation is different and I see it as a positive step as most companies are consolidating and bringing down their expenditures. Hence, my first preference was to join a multinational as I find it more fulfilling both in terms if career and growth as compared with joining a start-up.“
 
 This year, students are also cautious about starting their own ventures as compared with the entrepreneurship craze that was evident from 2013 to 2016.
 
 Kushal Nitin Dalal, gold medalist for all-round performance in the executive postgraduate programme (EPGP), said: “I belong to a Gujarati family and traditionally we are known for owning businesses. However, my training here at IIM-B has provided me with a 360-degree view, based on which I have decided that it would be wise to stick with a company currently to strengthen my skills.“
 
 “I do cherish the idea of starting up on my own but currently there is a lot of upheaval in the market and the dynamics are changing on a daily basis. This is a time to learn and once the market consolidates, I will take a call,“ he added.
 
