THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:The opposition disrupted the proceedings in the assembly on Tuesday and staged a walkout to protest the fee-hike in medical post graduate courses in self-financing colleges and alleged a government-private management nexus in fleecing students. 

 In an   moved by Congress  , the opposition cited an increase in   from Rs 6.5 lakh to Rs 14 lakh and a   in the fee for   PG courses. "The LDF government's second season of 'self-financing robbery' has begun and there could soon be a similar fee hike in the MBBS course as well," the Congress MLA said.
 
 Though health minister K K Shylaja argued that the hike was necessitated by the Supreme Court's direction to maintain a unified fee structure and it was in accordance with the calculations done by the fee regulatory committee, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the government yielded to the demands of self-financing college managements in a single sitting.
 
 "The health minister is now talking like an accountant of self-financing college managements. Is the government ready to provide scholarships to poor students and direct the managements to follow suit. Not a single medical college is in loss as it's a lucrative business. There should be equal opportunity for poor students to do post-graduate courses," he said.
 
 Chennithala said that the hike will also put pressure on state exchequer as the government will have to pay the fee of SC/ST students. "The government is now trying to evade responsibility by putting the onus on the fee regulatory committee," he said.
 
 The health minister, meanwhile, said the hike will not affect students in a big way as the government will make sure that the colleges disburse the increased stipend (Rs 5.16 lakh per year) promptly. "With a centralised allotment in place, the colleges won't be able to charge capitation fee," she said.
 
 The minister also said a deal on PG fee structure has been reached only with Christian managements. "Other managements are demanding to fix the fee at Rs 15-20 lakh, which the government will not yield to," she added.
 
