JAISALMER: Case of smuggling camels have increased manifold in Jaisalmer-Barmer region. Some days ago   which had been smuggled earlier from the desert area. With this incident in last one week 76 camels have been rescued so far in 3 incidents. The camels were being sent to Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh.

 On one hand the government has declared camel as state animal and is making efforts to conserve them looking at its declining number and on the other hand there is a continuous rise in smuggling cases of the ‘ship of the desert.’ These camels are being sent to UP and other states for slaughtering. Sedwa police of Barmer district had   last Tuesday for carrying 16 camels in a truck from Barmer. The accused had purchased camels from rural areas and were taking them to slaughter house in UP. Further probe will reveal if there is involvement of an interstate gang.
 
 Sedwa SHO Devendra Singh Kavia said that on the directions of SP Gagandeep Singla, a campaign is on to stop crimes in the entire district. The team had received information on last Sunday about camels being taken in a truck. Blockades at Kundapura Fanta were set up but the driver of a particular truck instead of stopping speeded the vehicle.
 
 Police chased and stopped the truck and found 16 camels in the truck. The accused in the truck could not give satisfactory answers when questioned about where the camels were being taken. Police arrested Akbar, resident of Timubas in Alwar district and Liaqat Ali, a resident of Mirpura in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Kavia said that earlier also camels were smuggled and taken to slaughter houses in Baghpat, UP after they were purchased from areas like Jodhpur, Barmer, Ajmer and Jaisalmer. This time also, these were being sent to Baghpat, UP.
 
 The SHO added, “We have contacted minister Menka Gandhi's organisation People for Animals in Sirohi and are sending the camels there.
 
 Some time back information about 42 camels being purchased at a cattle fair in Jodhpur district and being taken somewhere had reached police. The police chased the culprits who fled. Later, police sent the camels to a gaushala. The state government is promote camel rearing by providing incentives and providing Rs 10,000 to camel owner on birth of a camel. Despite all this there is a continuous increase in camel smuggling.
 
