THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the   state meet set for a   session on Saturday, the warring groups within the party are well prepared to present their theories on how the inquiry report of the party inquiry commission on medical college bribery allegation was leaked to media.

 While the   supporters in the party hinted that the party state secretary A K Nazeer who was one of the members in the inquiry commission would be suspended for leaking the report to media, the Muraleedharan camp terms such assumptions as baseless. According to them, Nazeer himself had clarified beyond doubts that the copy of the report shown in media reports was a signed copy of the report the commission had sent to the party president. According to them, the copy might have got leaked from the   office when the report was scanned for digitising purpose. 
 
 The claims for demand for suspension of Nazeer from the party stemmed from the arguments that the Nazeer had sent the report via mail to the mail address of a hotel owned by him and both these IDs were legible on the report flashed by news channels on Thursday. 
 
 Several party insiders ruled out the possibility of the state committee of the party core committee expelling or suspending any of the state leaders, including Nazeer. This would, however, be more owing to the directive from the central leadership, than the threadbare discussions the party leaders may engage in at the meeting on Saturday. “The ouster of Nazeer may also sent wrong signals to the minority communities and this would be the last thing the Modi-Amit Shah team would be ready to confront at this point. But the party central leadership would definitely carryout probes into every allegations and come to its own logical conclusions. It would also chart out a long term plan to weed out the factional war in the state for ever. But all this would be done without giving room for the opposition parties to make political gains over the party’’, said a source. 
 
 Whatever may be the outcome of the Saturday meeting, Rajasekharan would also be held answerable for his poor handling of the bribery issue which even put the national leadership on back foot, said another source.
 
 BJP national secretary H Raja and party national spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao have already given indications that the party wants the controversies over medical college bribery to die down with the expulsion of the party cooperative cell convenor R S Vinod. While Raja told media in Kochi on Friday that the party has already taken action against the culprit, Rao said it was unfair to project the financial dealings between certain persons as a party affair.
 
 
