NAGPUR: The authorities at the Government Observation Home for Boys, under the district women and child development department, were   when 14 inmates   of the home on Tuesday. Three of those who escaped were traced within a   while the rest are  

 The inmates who fled were categorized as ‘child in need of care and protection’ under the   (care and protection of children) Act, and detained at home following orders of Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The cops have learnt that the escape was planned by one inmate, who provoked others to follow him, and even threatened to thrash them in case they refused. There were 18 minors housed in the room, and only four remained behind. The planner is still untraceable.
 
 The home also housed seven children categorized as ‘juveniles in conflict with law’, who have been booked for various offences, in a separate room. These minor did not escape.
 
 This was the third incident of inmates escaping from the home in the last one year. On April 24, 2016, 21 inmates had escaped from the home, of whom 12 returned while nine are still missing. On December 4, 2016, 14 had sneaked out of the home, of whom 12 had returned. With no action taken to fill vacancies, which hamper functioning of the home, the authorities seem to be allowing inmates to escape.
 
 In the latest incident, inmates used a rod as a lever to break the joint of the latch after pushing their hands out of the grilled door to reach the door lock. It is learnt that the inmates dismantled a wash basin to pull out one of the pipes, which they used as the main tool in the escape drama. 
 
 After breaking the door lock, the inmates reached the roof by breaking the latch of the grilled door opening on to the terrace. They then used a towel to pull a strong branch of a nearby tree close to the terrace, and climbed down the tree to reach the ground. Though the periphery walls of the home are fitted with concertina wires, the low height of the gate did not pose a hurdle to the inmates. They simply scaled the gate to reach the road.
 
 The in-charge caretaker, Ganesh Jerowankar, who is working at the home on temporary basis, remained unaware of the entire episode until he was alerted by the four inmates who did not join the others in the escape drama. Jerowankar alerted the counsellor of the home, Nilesh Jakkulwar, who alerted Jaripatka police and his department seniors.
 
 The Jaripatka police immediately alerted the city police and their district counterparts. Three of the escaped inmates were intercepted by the Railway Protection Force, who alerted Sitabuldi and Jaripatka police stations. Jaripatka police conducted a medical examinations of the three minors, recorded their statements, and then handed them over to the home authorities.
 
 
