It was a meeting arranged in haste, but the film fraternity of Kerala joined hands like never before to express their solidarity with the brave heart actress who was assaulted recently in a moving car.

 On Sunday, by 6 30 pm, the Durbar Hall ground was filled with actors, directors and singers. Director Ranjith who chaired the session, said at the outset that it was no official meeting, but a coming together of the film fraternity to let the attacked actress know that they are all with her. Mammootty, Manju Warrier, Geetu Mohandas, Dileep, Jayasurya, Asif Ali, and a host of other actors, directors and other film personalities were part of the meeting, besides a handful of political leaders. Their message was loud and clear — be strong, the film fraternity is with you. Here is what they had to say. 
 
 
 
 It was Mammootty who suggested that we hold such a meeting today and we all immediately agreed. Several of us are here today to show that we are all with our sister who got assaulted. Unfortunately, it has become a trend of sorts to follow such news with curiosity but imagine if it happened to someone in your family. Will you be curious or sad? You will feel pained as well. I’m asking everyone to not celebrate such an incident. The police are doing their duty. Give them time to catch the criminals.
 
 
 
 
  She is our pride and we are all her brothers and sisters. Manhood is not about overpowering a woman, but about protecting her. We stand by her today and wish to tell her that she is not alone, a large community is with her who loves her. We represent not just the film fraternity but the entire Kerala. Today we should go back to our homes with a pledge that this shouldn’t happen to another woman again, rather that I won’t let it happen. Women, go home with the knowledge that you have a lot of brothers with you. 
 
 
 
 When she came running to my home that night, I stood frozen for a while. I had never faced such a situation before. But I suddenly remembered that I had met DGP Lokanath Behera on the sets of Fukri and dialled his number. He picked up immediately, and I have no words to express my gratitude for the police’s actions that night. Within no time, they arrived and they were there till morning. It was the DGP who told me that what she needs now is courage. All night, my wife, my daughter and I were talking to her, trying to give her strength. By morning, her mom and brother had arrived, and later her fiancé. Hats off to them for instilling courage in her to such a point that finally she was ready to take it to the court. ‘I’m ready to face anything now, even any dirty questions in court,’ she said. 
 
  Meanwhile, Behera told us that there have been three such similar incidents in the film industry. But none of them were ready to proceed with a case, which shouldn’t happen with this, he said. ‘You should take the responsibility to do that and to give her strength,’ he said. She was strong but then she saw some of the phrases used by certain channels she broke down. She was almost ready to withdraw the case. This is the time to give her strength, we should do all that can be done. I still remember, when she hugged me and cried that day, it was like all women of the world cried.
 
 
 
 This incident is a blow to the Malayali’s arrogance that such a thing will never happen in Kerala. Not all women will have the courage to react but our colleague has shown that courage. This is a time when women in Kerala are beginning to show the courage to go out at night as part of their job and it’s sad this incident occurred. We can’t restrict the responsibility of this crime solely to the perpetrators, every Malayali is responsible for it. There are criminals amongst us in the film industry too, we should accept that. I express my solidarity with my sister.
 
 
 
 I was shocked on hearing this news about a girl who had done the maximum number of films with me. What is scary is that it happened in our State, not that it happened to a film star. It made me look inside my home. The police are investigating the case in a truthful manner and I request everyone to not distort the news. We should consider this as something which happened to a common man and ensure that it doesn’t happen again. Let’s stand together for that and I’ll be a part of that.
 
 
 
 
 We consider ourselves intellectuals and our State as the most developed in the country, but the reaction of some of those to this incident is this: You can expect a video clip soon. Will you wait for a Whatsapp clip if it happened to someone in your family? Our society is turning criminal and in this regard, the police and guns can do nothing, we have to change from within. A community is developing parallel who view women as meat, who wait like vultures every day for pictures of women’s bare bodies. We should increase awareness on this; women’s safety is not the responsibility of men, I won’t degrade women thus. It is the responsibility of society as whole, composed of men and women.
 
 
 
 
 Everyone is speaking about their sadness at the incident, how sad the mental state of the actress is. But I’m not sad, I’m angry. I didn’t come here to sympathise with her, I came to look for solutions. What can be done is the question. During Jayalalithaa’s rule, gundaism was put to an end in Tamil Nadu. Gundas were shot down in broad daylight. That system should be here in Kerala as well. Police should be given guns. CCTV is not the solution. Police should be available at the moment of the crime, not later on. Every junction should have police patrol. 
 
 
