LUCKNOW: As BJP legislature party elected   its leader and CM designate, the   (UPPCB) started compiling list of slaughter houses in the state to be put before the new state government. BJP national president  , during his election campaign in UP, had said the slaughter houses will be shut once BJP forms government.

 A senior UPPCB official confirmed to TOI that the list is likely to be presented to the state government soon. “The issue has been one of the key highlights of BJP’s election manifesto and the new government will take a final call,” said the official.
 
 According to the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), there are over three dozen government approved Indian abattoirs-cum-meat processing plants/standalone abattoirs in UP. Of these, a maximum of seven are in Aligarh, five in Ghaziabad, four in Unnao, three in Meerut, two in Saharanpur and one each in Barabanki, Bulandshahr, Muzaffarnagar, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hapur, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Jhansi, Lucknow and Bulandshahr.
 
 Importantly, most of the mechanised abattoirs have registration valid up to 2018, according to APEDA. Sources said the state government will, therefore, have to take a call on whether their registration will be cancelled with immediate effect or not be renewed after expiry. 
 
 Many slaughter houses are reported to have been functioning without due government approval. In April last year, the Central Pollution Control Board had informed the National Green Tribunal that a number of slaughter houses were violating norms and discharging animal carcasses in the rivers.
 
 UPPCB member secretary   refused to comment, official sources said that the pollution control board’s is likely to put forth the list before a high power committee which is scheduled to meet any time next week.
 
 The BJP in its election manifesto, ‘Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra’, had announced: “Sabhi avaidh katlkhano ko poori kathorta se band kiya jayega...aur sabhi yantrik katlkhano par pratibandh lagaya jayega...(all illegal slaughter houses will be closed and mechanised slaughter houses will be banned)”.
 
 Political experts said the issue had attained political overtones in the communally sensitive west UP which has a number of abattoirs, many of them supposedly owned by leaders of SP, BSP and other political parties. “BJP managed to make it an emotive issue in the region, especially among farmers who have been complaining of their cattle going missing,” said a political commentator.
 
