COIMBATORE: A 14-year-old Salem resident died of   on Saturday night after her parents discharged her against medical advice. Though it was rumoured that rubella vaccine administered to the girl a few days ago led to her death, health department officials confirmed that she died of rabies.

 The victim, Boomika P, was a resident of Dharamanagalam in Salem and was a Class Nine student at the   Government Higher Secondary School. According to the dean of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, P Kanagaraj, Boomika’s parents Palaniswami and Devi had sought treatment for dog bite. “They were bit by their pet dog, and were administered rabies vaccine. However, they never mentioned that Boomika had also suffered a scratch. So, no vaccine was given to her. The dog died within two days,” Kanagaraj told TOI.
 
 On Friday, Boomika complained of throat pain. “She was brought to the primary health centre where doctors prescribed antibiotics presuming it to be due to an infection,” said deputy director of health, Salem, Poongodi. “But, Boomika refused to take the medicines. On Friday evening, her parents took her to a private clinic,” she said.
 
 The paediatrician asked the nurse to switch on the fan in his cabin. As the fan began to rotate, Boomika developed laryngospasm- an uncontrolled muscular contraction of the vocal folds due to which patient’s breathing sounds like barking.
 
 “Having realised that Boomika suffered an attack of aerophobia, the paediatrician suspected she was suffering from rabies. To confirm it, he offered Boomika a glass of water, following which, she suffered another laryngospasm,” said Poongodi. “The paediatrician told the parents that Boomika was suffering from rabies and it was not possible to save her life. He also recommended the couple to admit Boomika at the government hospital where she can be kept in isolation,” she added.
 
 The parents soon admitted Boomika to the GH on Friday night. “Our neurophysician confirmed that she was suffering from rabies after conducting a CT scan. Once a person develops symptoms of rabies, the mortality rate is 100%,” said the dean of the hospital, Kanagaraj. 
 
 “However, on Saturday evening, Palaniswami and Devi decided to take Boomika to Dharamangalam against medical advice. They believed that their daughter could be saved,” said Poongodi.
 
 The family performed the last rites on Sunday evening. 
 
 Boomika was administered rubella vaccine on February 11, Poongodi said. “But, there is no connection to the vaccine and the girl’s death. She died of rabies,” she added.
 
 
