PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar   on Monday criticized   protection  , arguing that, ironically, they sometimes come in the way of protecting the environment itself. He cited the case of the solid waste garbage treatment plant at Saligao, which was stalled after a case was filed at the National Green Tribunal. 

 “A regulatory authority and judicial system that tries to find one square-bracketed solution for the entire country is the biggest problem,” Parrikar said at the inaugural session of the international day for biological diversity. “A person sensitive to biodiversity, ecology, and the environment is equally restricted by this court from acting even in the interest of the environment, because of ‘one law one rule’. This does not fit a multicultural nation such as ours.” The programme was organised by the ministry of environment, forest (MoEF) and climate change, national biodiversity authority, and Goa state biodiversity board, in partnership with the   Development Programme.
 
 Goa, Parrikar pointed out, has been struggling to control illegal constructions in CRZ areas since 1991. “Goa has generated more legal expertise than any other state in the field of environment and defection laws,” he said, adding that Goa contributed the highest number of cases to the green court. 
 
 Parrikar also said that all trees cut for highway expansion would be transplanted or translocated wherever possible, and if not, new saplings would be planted. 
 
 “It’s the same highway authorities that planted the coconut trees along highways 25 years ago,” he said.
 
 try to turn it here
 
 The Saligao solid waste treatment plant, Parrikar said, is the only successfully functioning one in Goa. Prior to the plant being set up, over 2.5 lakh tonnes of garbage was dumped on that site, he added. “Today, over 150 municipal representatives and 30 ministers from various states have visited it to observe its functioning. The plant ensures that the coastal belt remains clean.” 
 
 Parrikar inaugurated an exhibition with exhibits from 12 states including Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, besides stalls from the Zoological Survey of India, Botanical Survey of India, Goa Forest Department, and Goa State biodiversity board.
 
 He also launched the 2018 India biodiversity awards and presented awards to winners of a national photography contest.
 
