MUMBAI: When   were last preparing for a match against Bengaluru FC, they had no foreigners on their roster yet were a surprise presence among the top spots in the   table having won their opening two games. As the two teams go into the reverse fixture at Cooperage exactly a month after that meeting, it's a case of the opposite for the hosts.

 Mumbai have recruited four foreign players and are certainly the better for it, but over the course of their delayed arrival, Santosh Kashyap's men have dropped to eighth spot courtesy six straight defeats, a eighth spot courtesy horror run they were finally able to snap through a goalless draw against   midweek.
 
 Still, there was plenty for Kashyap to be encouraged about during his team's spirited showing against the Kolkata giants. Indeed, with a little bit of luck, Mumbai could well have handed Bagan their first defeat of the season. They not only had a goal disallowed in an eventful first half but were also agonisingly denied by the post on two occasions. It has thus given the Mumbai coach reason enough to believe better days are in store for his side. 
 
 “I am extremely satisfied with the recent performances. We are improving and the combination is falling into place and we hope to progress with the same form for the rest of the year,” Kashyap said at his pre-match press briefing here on Friday, revealing he was likely to stick to the same eleven that caused Bagan more than a few worries.
 
 Bengaluru have also lost their way after getting off to a cracking start themselves as the champions are winless from their last five I-League outings. Their last win, incidentally, was that 3-0 mauling they handed Mumbai at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium. Skipper Sunil Chhetri attributed The Blues' drop in pace to their failure in turning chances into goals.
 
 “It's unbelievable the kind of goals we have missed,” the star forward lamented. “Apart from East Bengal, who dominated us in the second half, but Churchill, DSK, Minerva and now ( ), the amount of chances we have missed is unbelievable.
 
 “The goals that we have been missing is going to hurt us. We have to cut down on the goals we are conceding, because all the three years we have done well, we have conceded less goals. If you want to be champions you always have to concede less goals, and we have to convert our chances. We are doing quite well otherwise.”
 
 Bengaluru coach Albert Roca has been boosted by the availability of Spanish central defender Juanan who has served his two-game ban.
 
