PUNE: Short romantic trips interspersed with adventure sports. This is what lovebirds are hooked on this Valentine season.

 Besides usual getaways like Udaipur, Coorg and Wayanad, beach destinations like Goa, Maldives, Koh Samui and Macau too have found huge favour among vacationers this V-Day .
 
 And the icing on the cake is adventure sports like hot air ballooning, camping, diving, and nature trails that the lovebirds are intertwining with their trips to add a touch of thrill to their romantic break.
 
 Vijay Thakkar, director, Hasmukh Travels, said destinations like Mauritius and Maldives are extremely popular among youngsters this Valentine's Day .“A five-night sixday trip to these destinations can range anywhere between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh that couples do not mind paying for if they get an invigorating short vacation in return. Travellers are treating this period as a long weekend and thus opting for international hotspots too,“ Thakkar said, adding that close to 15 travellers have booked from his company for the V-Day vacation so far.
 
 Karan Anand, head, relationships, Cox & Kings, said “For V-Day weekend, we are experiencing around 20% rise in bookings as compared to the previous year. As most of the bookings are last minute, we expect to see a surge closer to the date. Among hot favourites are Goa, Udaipur, Coorg, Wayanad, Panchmarhi and Shillong. Couples are also combining their holidays with different activities like hot air ballooning, camping, diving, nature trails to make the most of their short vacations.“
 
 Party hopping trips and staycations across cities are also popular this Valentine season. “Staycations are fast gaining popularity among our patrons. Interestingly , many singles too are flying off to various destinations to tide over Valentine's Day blues. We are beginning to see people taking two days off (February 13-14) after the weekend to make it a four-day short and sweet vacation.“
 
 International travel destinations too are high on tourist radar this V-Day . Shravan Gup ta, executive director Leisure Businesses, FCM Travel Solutions India, said, “This Valentine week, there has been a rise in destination bookings to Thailand, Bali, Singapore and Macau. These destinations have always seen an increased interest because of the unspoiled, unwinding and relaxing vibe. Couples are travelling to Thailand and Bali for a perfect romantic getaway for its dreamy landscapes and beaches.Singapore has been an all-time favourite amongst couples.“ Gupta said Uttarakhand is also a hot favourite among domestic destinations as the place offers adventure sports, waterfalls, flora and fauna along with jungle safaris that fit the Valentine's Day wish list.
 
 Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents Association of Pune, said young couples are preferring beach and exotic destinations this V-Day .“Seychelles off  , Maldives, Koh Samui in Thailand as well as Goa are a huge attraction,“ he added.
 
