BHOPAL:   will not hit Bhopal before time this year as was expected, but won’t get delayed either. Residents reeling under stifling heat and sultry weather for past two months will now have to wait to get respite for at least for 25 more days, say Met officials. The silver lining is pre-monsoon showers are likely to get respite from the scorcher on few occasions.

 But the city and the state would be in for another a strong spell of heat with the temperature on an upward spiral before the monsoon makes a landfall. The good thing is there will be no impact of El-Nino this year till the monsoon ends by September, Met officials said. Overall, the monsoon would be slightly less than average this time.
 
 Met officials said northern parts of Madhya Pradesh may witness less than average rainfall and remaining parts are expected to get close to normal rainfall.
 
 Met department, Bhopal circle director Anupam Kashyapi told TOI, “The monsoon is currently in the Andaman and Nicobar area. It will take three to four more days to advance further. Southwest monsoon is expected to hit Kerala between May 30 and June 2 and would make landfall in MP and Bhopal between June 15 and June 20.
 
 Met director said rains this year won’t be surplus like in the previous year, but won’t be less than average. Chambal, Gwalior, Ujjain, Tikamgarh, Rewa, Satna, Rajgarh and adjoining places will get less than average rainfall this year while other places may receive close to average rainfall. It is based on long-range forecast and things would further get clear as monsoon advances,” he said.
 
 The break between two spells of rainfall would be longer than usual this time, triggering deficit rainfall in the Chambal, Gwalior, Ujjain, Tikamgarh, Rewa, Satna and Rajgarh divisions, weatherman said. 
 
 Met department said there would be a thundery development in the state for next four days. But that is that and after that brace for summer heat intensity peaking. That, by the way, would coincide with the Nautapa- the nine-day astronomical Hindu calendar prediction of hottest days of year, though never considered in meteorology. 
 
 Highest temperature of the season for Bhopal this year was on May 14, when the mercury soared to 44 degrees. In the state, Khajuraho clocked the highest temperature of the season at 47 degrees on two days: May 14 and May 15. 
 
 
