Panaji: Endowed with both marine and freshwater resources, India is a major fisheries and aquaculture country in the world, said   chair professor Dr S Ayyappan. He was speaking at the 51st foundation day of   ( ),  , held on Sunday.

 “India is a major fisheries and aquaculture country in the world, contributing nearly 5% of the agricultural gross domestic product (AgGDP), 10% of agri-exports and providing livelihood to about 14 million people,” he said.
 
 Emphasising on the role of fishery science, Ayyappan said, “Identification of untapped potentials like island fisheries, reservoir fisheries, integrated farming and ornamental fisheries need to be elaborated and action plans have to be drawn up. A 10 million-tonne fish country that India is, it has to focus in greater measures on aquatic resources, not only to produce more food, but to address the shift from starch to protein, increasing pressure on land, livelihoods and equity. These can play an important role in the blue economy of India.” he said.
 
 Looking at the demand for knowledgeable and skilled human resource for the development of standard products and services in the sector, NIO launched skill development courses in aquaculture technology. The course were inaugurated by Ayyappan on Sunday. Under the programme, it has proposed to conduct four job-specific courses, namely aquaculture technician, aquatic microbiology assistant, aquaculture worker and brackish water aquaculture farmer. NIO is in the process of documentation for affiliation and accreditation with the Agriculture Skill Council of India.
 
 Experts from NIO said aquaculture is currently the fastest growing food-producing sector accounting for nearly 50% of the world’s food fish. It’s perceived to be having the greatest potential to meet the growing demand for aquatic food. Moreover, given the projected population growth over the next two decades, it is estimated that at least an additional 40 million tonnes of aquatic food will be required by 2030 to maintain the current per capita consumption.
 
