BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that action against anybody cannot be taken on the basis of mere allegations. Referring to the multi-crore hawala scam in Katni, Chouhan said that the home department has sent a letter to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take up the case for investigation.

 “I have clarified that the ED should investigate the matter. The home department has sent a letter to the ED in this regard. Police is doing what comes under its jurisdiction. There could be no decisions taken on the basis of allegations,” said Chouhan, while talking to reporters on the occasion of Anand Utsav.
 
 Chouhan though, cautiously put to the backburner the alleged involvement of minister of state Sanjay Pathak in the case but reiterated that he would not spare anybody who is found involved in the case.
 
 “But, first let the police complete its investigation in the matter. These are allegations and it is unfair to blame somebody on hearsay,” said Chouhan, praising the police and its officers for exposing the scam.
 
 “I have made it amply clear that the transfer of cops is a routine process. I am proud of Madhya Pradesh police and we have several outstanding police officers. Gaurav is also a good officer and Sashikant is also good. We cannot doubt on their devotion and honesty”, said Chouhan, hailing the two officers.
 
 As the BJP high command has taken the a serious view of the case, the party is also likely to take a decision in view of the ensuing assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh. Sources in the BJP said that in order to avoid any embarrassment or adverse impact, the party would be careful in the alleged hawala case.
 
 “As of now, if action in the matter is necessary then it will be taken. But, if things do not get affected without any serious action, then the party will wait till the assembly elections are over in the five states”, disclosed a senior BJP functionary.
 
 Meanwhile, party state affairs in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe also made it clear that the entire case is under an administrative process
 
 “BJP as a political party has no role in the matter. The party does not have a different view from Chouhan’s assertions and there is no question of protecting the guilty,” Sahasrabuddhe told TOI over phone.
 
 Sahasrabuddhe also refused to comment on the party’s stand and said that the organisation is being regularly briefed about the developments and the leaders are keeping a close on the situation.\
 
