It was Noida boy   who became the first commoner to win   last season and this year, the city will again have one of its residents as an inmate in the house in the form of tantric and spiritual healer Sshivani Durga. Shivani belongs to   in Rajasthan but has been based in Mumbai for over a decade. But earlier this year, she moved to Noida and stays in Sector 122. "I moved to Noida for work reasons. I have been trying to set up an ashram in my hometown Alwar and travelling from Mumbai becomes difficult. That is why Noida has been my base for some time. Even after I get out of the house, I will stay in Noida," she tells us over the phone hours before heading into the Bigg Boss house. Shivani might not have family back in Noida but she does have someone she says she will miss a lot. She tells us, "My three dogs are still in Noida with my friend and they are the ones whom I will really miss when I’m in the Bigg Boss house. I can’t wait to see them again and on some level, I’m worried about how they will be without me," she says.
 
 The tantric and spiritual healer says that her aim is to use the Bigg Boss platform and dispel the myths around tantra and tantrics. She elaborates, "There is such a misconception about tantrics and aghoris and what they do. My aim is to try and dispel that through the platform. I want to show that not all tantrics are bad or indulge in bad practices." But she agrees that it would be a challenge to tie her spirituality with the show’s controversial appeal as the two worlds are quite different. She says, "I know it’s a very controversial show but I only want to see the positive here. I see a platform that I can use to spread the word about tantra and spirituality. If I try, I can stay away from all the negativity in the house."
  
 Shivani says she isn’t perturbed by the fact that people might be against her initially given the anti-godman climate in the country currently and the fact that   wasn’t a fan favourite in the show last year. But she is quick to add that she doesn’t call herself a godwoman. "I don’t like the term godman or godwoman, and I certainly don’t use that. Nobody is God. We are all humans and people just like to use others’ gullibility to con them into thinking they are Godmen. I am actually against all such conmen. I know initially people will judge me because of who I am. But I’m sure, as they will see me over the days and the weeks, they will come to see me for who I am and stop judging me," she says.
 
 
