Coimbatore: City   have now gone smart by employing audio-visual medium to teach the students. A class has been specifically designated for each school for this purpose and children are taught regular subjects using videos, pictures and presentations.

 A Anju, a physics teacher at the Corporation Higher Secondary School in Siddhapudur, said this has improved the quality of education and also enrolment of students in the corporation-run English medium schools. “The number of students rose from 15 to 39 in just a year after   was set up at PN Pudur corporation school, last year. Also, labs have already been set up in other elementary and middle schools. This has become a game changer as children are able to understand difficult concepts very easily,” she said.
 
 Corporation education officer Uma told TOI that the admissions had considerably increased in all the corporation-run English medium schools.
 
 Another teacher said she was able to complete her portions well in time using the smart tools. “I had to complete more than six chapters before the quarterly exam. I downloaded important experiments and various videos related to the subjects. Children grasp things easily when they watch videos. Equations of photosynthesis can be written using colours and it is better explained in audio-visual medium,” the teacher said.
 
 According to the corporation education officer, almost 23 of its schools have the smart class facility with a projector, a smart board similar to computer with various tools, a smart pen and speakers. Computers can be connected and the learning process becomes fun for the children.
 
 Many children, however, complained that classes were not being held for them. “The smart class is used for students of Classes VI-VIII only. We are in Class 11 and have not been taken to the lab so far,” said Ranjith, a student.
 
 When the issue was brought to the attention of teachers and headmasters, they said efforts were on to make the best use of the lab facility. “Not all teachers are trained to use these tools. We are trying to impart training to all teachers and extend it to as many classes as possible,” said an official.
 
 Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said all schools will have the smart classrooms very soon. “Apart from this, 24 schools will be totally converted into smart schools with world-class amenities, neat and clean classrooms, better seating facilities, renewable energy usage and eco-friendly methods,” he said.
 
 
