Pimpri Chinchwad: Sunday is just a day away and it’s time to plan for  , which returns to   for its second outing on January 29. 

 Starting at 6.30 am, the three-hour event will be conducted on one side of the road from Kokane Chowk to Swaraj Chowk at Nashik Phata. On offer will be more than a dozen activities suitable for all members of the family. With the road completely closed for motorised traffic, participants can enjoy the event carefree.
 
 While Zumba and Dance Fitness will lead the pack for those seeking to trim their waistline, Street Soccer and Badminton will offer the opportunity to work up some sweat. Cycling and Skating are the best ways to explore the entire venue. Rent-free-cycles will be available at the spot to enable everyone to enjoy the opportunity. 
 
 Boxing, which turned out to be a major draw at the previous Happy Streets outing, returns for all participants to get a first hand feel of the sport with live demonstrations and a chance to try your skills with trained boxers.
 
 A meditation corner will be set up for those looking for a bit of peace, while multiple rounds of Drum Circles and the VJ Live Stage will be for those wishing to unwind with some music and live singing.
 
 There will be ample avenues for kids to relax as well. Look out for the Game Zone, Kids Corner and even a space dedicated for Chalk Art. Just the perfect excuse to let the children unleash their creative abilities.
 
 A Selfie Corner will also be set up at the venue to allow participants to record their memories of the happy event in photographs, complete with quirky accessories and a backdrop of the event.
 
 Happy Streets is organised by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation with a larger objective of popularising non-motorised transport and community-based activities. The event is powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers.
 
 This is the second last outing of the season for the event in Pimple Saudagar. Happy Streets will move on to its last location in Baner after February 5.
 
 
