CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday cracked its whip on the Medical Council of India and the   government for their failure all these years to ensure the surrender of 50% of postgraduate medical seats by unaided private institutions to the government, as mandated by law, and imposed Rs 1 crore each as cost on them.

 Justice N Kirubakaran also set aside the NRI quota admissions done by the institutions for PG medical courses and said all quotas should be filled by the government, so that the inter se merit of candidates could not be undermined.
 
 Stating that the Rs 1 crore exemplary cost on the Tamil Nadu government would go for Keeladi excavations in Sivaganga district and the Rs 1 crore cost on the   would go to Spastics Society, Justice Kirubakaran said: “Exemplary cost has been imposed only to make authorities follow laws, especially when they discharge public functions. Any negligence or default would affect many meritorious students and their valuable right to education as guaranteed by the Constitution.”
 
 “Cost is imposed only to deter the authorities as well as the institution discharging the public function from violating the rule of law. Unless every procedure is put in place and a well-oiled mechanism is made operational, all the stake-holders and beneficiaries will be put to unnecessary hardship which has be avoided,” he said.
 
 The judge posted the matter to June 12 for reporting compliance of payment of costs.
 
 As for the surrender of seats, Justice Kirubakaran issued a set of directives which included a direction to the state government to appropriate 50% of PG medical seats in each specialty from non-governmental medical institutions in the state, excluding minority institutions, as state quota and make admissions on the basis of NEET merit list through centralised counselling by the state.
 
  “The state government shall by notification include 50% seats in deemed universities, except minority institutions, in the counselling to be conducted for the government quota seats in self-financing medical colleges, 50% institution quota seats in deemed universities and management quota seats in self-financing medical colleges,” the judge said.
 
 Minority institution colleges need not share 50% of seats to the government except by voluntary surrender, he said, adding: “Admission made in respect of the NRI quota by non-governmental medical institutions in the state, excepting minority institutions, is not valid and is set aside, as per central government’s communication dated March 10, 2017 and April 6, 2017.”
 
 All private, non-minority institutions shall surrender all their seats, including 15% NRI quota seats, for centralised common counselling to be conducted by the state, Justice Kirubakaran said adding: “The state government prospectus for common counselling to PG degrees/diploma courses in deemed universities in Tamil Nadu (excluding NRI quota) in this 2017-18 session is quashed, as it does not appropriate 50% state quota seats from deemed universities.”
 
 As for the procedure to be adopted by the state government during counselling, the judge said it should notify on its website details such as availability of seats in each college, university, institution (speciality wise); complete fee structure of all non-governmental institutions, including deemed universities, which shall also include the expenses the student has to incur for pursuing his course; list of candidates absent during counselling; list of candidates who have not joined in government/non-governmental institutions; and specialty-wise details of seats allotted to NRI quota.
 
 Justice Kirubakaran asked all authorities and the MCI to notify all the decision and procedure formalities well in advance from next year onwards to avoid confusion in admission and avoid litigation.
 
 
