BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has declared Gwalior district as a ‘controlled area’ over glanders epidemic fears. It is a fatal disease affecting equidae, transferable and equally dangerous to humans.

 Seven   have died in the area in last 60 days due to this infectious disease, forcing authorities to put the horses unit of   (BSF) and state’s Special Armed Forces (SAF) in Gwalior on high alert. Hundreds of blood samples have been sent to the National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar, for investigations, said sources. State government may think of mass culling of animals to control the infection.
 
 The government has announced an embargo on movement of these animals, stating: “No carrier of goods or animal shall carry any animal of the equine species (donkey, horses and mules) from or out of a controlled area, free area or infected area by land, sea or air”.
 
 This order prohibits the movement of animals belonging to the equine species from the place where they are kept to any other place within or outside the municipal area and also prohibits the holding of races, fairs, exhibitions, games and gathering of such animals in the municipal area of Gwalior.
 
 “Seven horses have died, since the disease was detected in January this year. Cases are sporadic and preventive action is being taken,” O P Tripathi, deputy director of the animal husbandry department, Gwalior, told TOI. The disease is characterised by serial development of ulcerating nodules that are most commonly found in the upper respiratory tract, lungs and skin.
 
 The matter surfaced last month when a horse was being treated at a Gwalior veterinary hospital. “As the horse was not responding to treatment, doctors discussed the matter with the veterinary university at Jabalpur. They examined the samples and confirmed it as a case of glanders,” said Dr Tripathi. He said 119 samples were sent to Hisar for examination, six were found positive. “Two horses died in the meantime. Bodies were disposed as per the protocol,” said the vet. 
 
 Officials believe there are around 70 Tongas (single-horse driven vehicle) in Gwalior, and some of the horses were brought in from  . “It seems that that infected horses were brought to Bhopal from the neighbouring state,” said a doctor.
 
 District collector Sanjay Goyal also had a meeting with government officers and directed them to be vigilant. “We are taking all possible measures to stop this disease from spreading,” Goyal told TOI.
 
 Union minister Menaka Gandhi had been claiming that India was in the middle of a dire glanders epidemic. From 2006 onwards,   on Equines has found hundreds of cases across nine states. Madhya Pradesh is now the tenth state where samples have tested positive for glanders.
 
 According to Dr Tripathi, glanders can be passed on to humans through contact with infected animals, consuming food or water contaminated by the nasal discharge of the animal. “Human cases of glanders are rare. Transmission to humans only happens where a human has been in close contact with infected animals which are showing clear signs of the disease,” he said.
 
