BHUBANESWAR: The stalemate in the assembly that started with alleged suicide of a farmer in   on February 27 showed no sign of subsiding on Friday. 

 The opposition, the   and the BJP, members stormed into the well of the house shouting slogans against the   government from the start of question hour.
 
 While the Congress members sought a debate on farmers' suicide, the BJP MLAs reiterated their demand for government response to rising incidents of peasants taking the extreme step. Unofficial reports said five farmers have ended their lives around a fortnight after the Bargarh incident.
 
 The pre-lunch session was a complete wash out. Amid the pandemonium created by the Congress and BJP members, speaker Niranjan Pujari first adjourned the house for an hour till 11.30 am and again till 12.50 pm and then till 3 pm. It was almost a repeat of similar din, first between February 28 and March 4 and again from March 14 (when the house resumed for second phase of the budget session after a mid-term break from March 5 to 13 till date.
 
 Post-lunch, the house passed the expenditure relating to school and mass education and higher education amid continued disruptions by the opposition over the farmer's issue. 
 
 Farmer leaders questioned the sincerity of the political parties in addressing the farmer's plights. "None of the political parties seem serious in their approach to the sensitive issue. While the Naveen government is totally indifferent to the issue, the opposition is busy in publicity stunts. The disruptions in no way can help the farmers," said Lingaraj Pradhan, a noted farmer leader.
 
 Pradhan said the political parties should seriously debate the issue. The government should study why so many farmers are ending their life and come out with a strategy to prevent the deaths. If one sees the trend this year, farmers are ending life despite bumper crop because they are unable to sell the produce. The prices of vegetables have plummeted earning them no returns, he said.
 
 The political parties, however, indulged in another round of blame game. Leader of opposition   said his party MLAs had no option left other than protest in the assembly as the speaker did not allow an adjournment motion discussion on the issue despite a notice served by them. Echoing similar views, BJP MLA Pradip Purohit said the government is deliberately avoiding discussion on the issue. BJD MLA  , however, said the opposition is wasting crucial time of the assembly instead of taking part in constructive debates. 
 
 The BJP should ask the Centre to increase the minimum support price of paddy to at least Rs 2,500 per quintal (from the Rs 1470), he said. 
 
