With social media to their benefit, many ‘artistes’ have made a mark on online platforms with their videos and songs. While not entirely music to the ears, these roast versions entertain audiences for all the wrong reasons. Ridiculous, funny or ridiculously funny? You decide...

 All of us, at some point, have watched Taher Shah’s 'Eye To Eye' and waited eagerly, along with our friends, for his next video, 'Angel'. We’ve either tripped on Dhinchak Pooja’s otherworldly 'Swag Wali Topi' or frowned at the 'Kurla to Govandi' rap. Point is, love them or hate them, you can’t ignore them. These songs, with their forced rhymes, out of sync tunes, disappointing vocals and amateur editing skills have their own share of fandom. Popular among youngsters, maybe for their nuisance value, it’s interesting to see what has people still watching them and driving up the view count online? 
 
 
  
  
 15-year-old Sagarika Sen and her class group, which is updated on developments of all these videos, says, “We tend to follow everything that is trending and bizarre just to have a good laugh. It’s not like we genuinely appreciate them. It just adds some sense of humour in life and is a good stressbuster.”
  Shriya Shenoy, 26, a marketing professional, adds, “It’s a guilty pleasure. I think this fad originates from spoofs that we’ve watched as kids. Making fun of something popular is known to make people laugh. And when a song is unwittingly funny, it is funnier than the obvious ones. I guess these artistes are not oblivious to the fact that people laugh at them but they are anyway cashing in on it. What makes them famous is the way the internet works, which leads them to think they are popular. Personally, I feel people start feeling good about themselves after watching them.”
 
 
 
 Sharukh Shaikh, a rapper popularly known as Emiway, who has a large number of subscribers online, says, “These are videos that people like watching ‘badhir hoke’. My only motive is to entertain people and it doesn’t matter if they laugh at it. I think if I rapped in English, people would take me more seriously. I’m doing my job and following my passion. I upload one video a month and know I can survive by creating these songs. I even quit my studies for this.”
 
 
 
 Terming this as a source of stimulation, psychologist  , says, “Many find this as a challenging stimulation. They want to wane away the monotony and boredom with such videos. People gravitate to this instead of run-of-the-mill videos. Those with a lateral bent of mind are bound to like such videos more than the others and are stimulated by these bizarre but unwittingly creative videos.”
 
