MUMBAI: There have been attempts by political parties --both reigning and in the opposition--to walk away with credit for ceiling the prices of   in the country. In reality, it's members of the civil society and everyday individuals who have toiled with the help of RTIs and   (PIL), to achieve a landmark decision to make heart procedures affordable.

 The name of lawyer Birendra Sangwan (37) should top that list. While visiting the ailing brother of a friend in 2014, the New Delhi lawyer was surprised to see that the Metro Hospital in Faridabad refused to offer any clarity on the price of the stent used on his acquaintance. After some investigation, he found out that there was no uniformity in pricing of stents and patients were charged at the whims of hospitals.
 
 This incident, coupled with afew experiences in his own family , motivated Sangwan to file an   and find out if the meshlike devices that open clogged arteries fall under the `drugs' or `metals' category. “I was surprised to learn they were drugs, but did not come under any price regulation,“ he told TOI. It prompted him to file the first PIL in Delhi high court in 2015, asking for stents to be brought under the National List of Essential Medicines. “On the same day , the court ordered the government to act on it,“ he said. But, the latter didn't do so for more than five months, forcing him to file a contempt petition.
 
 After a series of hearings, the first victory came after a year in July 2016, when the government included stents in the list of essential medicines.The decision triggered a chain of events that ended with the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority ( ) capping the prices of bare metal stents to Rs 7,260 and Rs 29,600 for drug eluting stents. “I am glad that the litigation has led to the stent prices coming down by 85%,“ he said.
 
 Sangwan's battle against the Rs2,500-crore stent industry would have been more ardu ous if not for support from civil groups and coalition of doctors such as   (AIDAN), Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan.These groups joined hands to rally behind the government and ensure pressures of the medical device industry did not get the better of them.
 
 “Our representations have been consistent and on the lines of ensuring that life-saving drugs are available and affordable. When NPPA called us for our opinion, we harped on the point that the manufacturers must show non-inferiority , which is different from supe riority, in order to charge such premium,“ said Dr Mira Sivan from AIDAN. She however said that stent pricing is just one battle won and not the war.
 
 City NGO,  , played a key role in taking the initiative to expose profiteering in the stent industry in 2011. President RP Rao said they had tipped the food and drug administration which later led to a probe and the first concrete report to establish arbitrary pricing.
 
 Sangwan said it was not his last battle to make healthcare affordable. “Next on agenda is going after prices of 14-15 other medical devices.“
 
 
 
 
 After   in Bandra, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority has received a complaint against the civic-run   in Parel for overcharging of cardiac stents. It has asked the FDA to look into the allegation. 
 
