PATNA:   is his role model. Undeterred by the threat to life feared by the   jawan after his video about alleged raw deal to soldiers in their mess went viral,   jawan Pankaj Mishra on Thursday said CRPF jawans are also facing “similar exploitation” at the hands of officers.
 
  “The BSF bosses are questioning the credibility of Yadav... But mine has been a spotless three-year career with Battalion 221. I am also least worried about my elderly parents, two unemployed young brothers and an unmarried sister,” Mishra, a single, said when he visited TOI office in  .
  
  According to Mishra, every word uttered by Yadav is true and the same is the story in all forces. “We face humiliation. Anyone who raises voice against officers are humiliated and punished,” he said and added they are asked to mop the floor and do other menial household chores at the residences of officers in brazen violation of service conditions.
  
  A graduate from Veer Kunwar Singh University in Ara, 50km from Patna, Mishra was pursuing LLB when he got the job with CRPF in 2013. “This morning as I left my house for TOI office, I told my mother to be ready to hear the worst about me... My revelations may cost me even my job,” said the 20-something man currently on leave to meet parents in native Shahpur village, near Ara.
  
  “Our officers take cuts -- directly or indirectly. It’s an open secret in our battalions. On days when we practise shooting, our officers get refreshments after every hour and we are not given break to eat even once in 12 hours,” he said.
  
  Mishra rues the passion to serve the country that prompts people to join forces ends within days of joining. “I as a child watched patriotic movies like LOC Kargil, Maa Tujhhe Salaam and Border... Maybe, those films made me dream of serving the country. But our officers ridicule our patriotism. They say, ‘apne bibi-bachchon ki chinta karo, desh ki nahi’,” he said.
  
  Mishra minces no words in berating “officers”. “When these officers are posted in Maoist-affected villages, they don’t wear their stars and badge. They treat us like family and eat with us, sometimes even from our plates. For, they are dependent on us for their security in case of Maoist attacks... Also, they fear no one could save them if ill-treatment infuriated jawans and they shot them,” he said and demanded a committee of people not from the central forces and IPS to “oversee an ‘operation clean’ in the forces just as Lodha Committee is cleaning our cricket.”
