NAGPUR: In a bid to damage   in the   (NMC) elections,   itself has fell flat. Sena is left with only 85 candidates in total seats of 151 as it miserably failed to distribute A and B forms in time to rebels of BJP and other political parties.

 The NMC has finalized list of candidates in the fray in 151 seats for the elections slated on February 21. A close look on the list revealed Sena had candidates only in 85 seats. Sena has announced list of 122 candidates. Thus, Sena’s 37 candidates could not get its symbol.
 
 Situation is so grim for the Sena that it is not having its candidates in few wards. Best example is ward no. 34 where Sena has no candidate in all four seats. There are many wards in which Sena is left with candidate in only one of four seats. Best examples are ward no-36, 37 and 38.
 
 Ward no. 34 is in South Nagpur where Sena is considered as strong. Wards- 36, 37 and 38 are from South-West Constituency where Sena can do good as it has a strong base.
 
 Accepting Sena’s only 85 candidates could get symbols, district president   told TOI that support has been declared to remaining 37 candidates. “We failed to grab total chance of rebels from other political parties especially BJP. We managed to give tickets to BJP’s three sitting and senior corporators and some senior leaders. Four more sitting corporators of BJP and also Congress would have been our candidates but failed. Lack of time has caused some loss to Sena,” he said.
 
 Actually, it can be termed as a big loss to Sena. Around 500 submitted forms seeking Sena tickets. Sena prepared a list of candidates but changed it on last date of nominations to grab rebels of BJP and Congress.
 
 Former district president   said Sena lost a big chance due to improper administration. “I too hold myself as responsible for the mess. We shifted office from Reshimbagh to Ganeshpeth but failed to equip with systems. We could have filled forms of rebels coming to us but could not as lacked just a small thing that is Internet service. Besides, our own party leaders were engaged in cutting tickets of own party workers and get no time in grabbing rebels of other parties. There was immense anguish among BJP leaders for tickets distribution. Sena is only choice for BJP rebels. We failed to identify and mould them towards us. Sena Vidarbha contact chief Tanaji Sawant took all efforts and ensured entry of some BJP bigwigs like Anil Dhawade, Anita Wankhede etc. We will reach up to all and reveal BJP’s failure at the NMC in last ten years and Congress’ poor performance in the past. People will vote Sena as BJP and Congress failed after getting public mandate,” he said.
 
