The lead protagonist of ‘Khwaabon Ki Zamin Par’ is an avid animal lover and inherits this quality from her mother
 
  Actors and celebrities having pets is not a novel thing but actors rescuing & adopting an animal in dire state is rare. It only shows how genuinely they care for animals.
  
  One such animal lover is   seen as Niyati in Zindagi’s ‘Khwaabon Ki Zamin Par’ that airs every Monday to Saturday at 11:00 PM. Megha has been compassionate towards animals since she was a child and has grown up with pets. She acquired this trait from her mother who would feed stray dogs and even get them vaccinated.
  
  
 
  
  Megha is often seen playing with dogs around the sets. A self-confessed foodie too, Megha has combined her two loves food and animals creatively, by giving her pets unique names like Kaju & Luchi. Though four of her pets are in her home town, Kolkata; she often does a Skype call or talks to them over the phone whenever she misses them.
  
  Recently while commuting, Megha found an abandoned and weak puppy on the streets who was a bit wounded. Megha fed him some biscuits but could not leave him behind thinking that the puppy might get hit by a vehicle. Without thinking much, she decided to take the puppy home. On taking the pup to the vet to ensure that he was in good health, the doctor make a shocking revelation that the puppy was not a stray, but infact a Labrador. Megha was astonished that a pup from a good breed was abandoned and was extremely happy with her newly adopted pet.
  
  
 
  
  Expressing her love for animals Megha Chakraborty said, “Yes, I absolutely love dogs and cats, I have had pets since my childhood. My mom is equally fond of dogs, so having pets at home was never a problem. I urge our viewers to be more compassionate towards animals and not hurt them. I feel very bad when people abandon their pets. If you can’t take care of pets or adopt them then at least send them to animal shelters. Also, try feeding stray animals as much as you can.”
  
  Produced by Anupam Kher’s production company - Actor Prepares, ‘Khwaabon Ki Zamin Par’ is the story of a 24-year-old boy, Arya Kashyap ( ) who leaves behind his girlfriend, Niyati Bajpayee (Megha Chakroborty), and his family to come to Bombay to fulfil his dream of becoming a Bollywood star.
