MUMBAI: The   cops recently submitted a chargesheet against actor Bhagyashree, six months after a case was registered against her for allegedly ramming a biker with her car at a signal at SV Road.The chargesheet includes statements of witnesses saying it was the actor at the wheel and not her driver as she claimed.

 Shantanu Pawar, senior inspector of Santacruz police station, said, “We have witnesses who saw Bhagyashree driving the car. We have got the evidence to prove it. Her name was mentioned in the FIR too as the one in the driver's seat.Now we have the evidence.“
 
 The victim Mohammed   (30) said the chargesheet included call data records of the driver which allegedly showed he was not even at the spot at the time of the incident.
 
 The accident took place on November 2, 2016. Shaikh was at the signal, near his house at Santacruz (West), when the actor's car allegedly rammed into his bike. “I was thrown quite some distance. I was near my house so I immediately called my brother who came to my aid,“ he said. He further stated the actor was alone in the car at the time of the incident and he even saw her getting out from the driver's side of the vehicle. “She left without coming to my aid and I was helped by others,“ Shaikh added.
 
 The victim stated he had suffered a fractured leg and one of his fingers was almost severed. “Initially , the actor's husband visited me in hospital and requested me not to lodge a complaint. He assured me I wo uld be compensated. I asked them to take care of my medical expenses,“ he said. Shaikh said after he agreed to this, the family deposited Rs 25,000 for his medical expenses. “ After that every time I tried to get in touch with them, they did not respond. One of their assistants told me they had done a favour by giving money . I finally filed the complaint on December 19,“ Shaikh said. “I have two children. The last six months have been very difficult. I was unable to work properly and my business has suffered. I want justice,“ he said.
 
 Bhagyashree has been booked under   sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (causing grievous hurt). If convicted, the maximum sentence is two years' imprisonment.
 
