MOHALI: All that glitters is not gold! Well, Zirakpur may have been concived keeping an ideal modern township in mind, but wait a moment! Zirakpur gives you enough reasons to be   

 Potholes on the roads, mud, torn asphalt and pollution are aberrations that you can ill-afford. Add to the list menace created by dogs and cows, and life's not hunky dory in this part of Punjab. Ask a resident   who is fed up with road mismanagement. All his appeals have fallen on deaf ears until elections are round the corner when good sense prevails in political leaders.
 
 The road leading to the societies which was damaged a month ago was repaired many a time, but the condition is the same because of the poor quality of materials used to repair the roads. 
 
 Most of the internal roads and arterial roads are riddled with potholes which are unattended for months turning out to be death traps. The first turn towards Paras down town mall is full of potholes. There's a badly damaged turn leading to the Shimla highway which makes commuters go straight and turn left from the light point to save their vehicle that also causes traffic chaos. 
 
 However, Zirakpur village is fully carpeted with footpath tiles. Sources infiormed that, ZMC is running out of budget and it doesn't have enough money to handle such problems. 
 
 One of the oldest societes ,   is in gruesome condition. A resident said, "Most of the inner roads in the town are badly damaged due to underground drainage project in some areas. The roads that are not damaged by the contractors also have huge potholes due to lack of maintenance." 
 
 The   road which is also connected to the main road towards Mohali city has huge craters and it has not been repaired for years. Society residents have taken it up with authorities but their concerns have been ignored." "We brought this matter to the notice of concerned authorities urging them to carry out repairs but our problem is yet to be addressed," said a local shopkeeper.
 
 "Travelling on a bike in the town is becoming more and more difficult and stressful due to potholes. We have to zigzag around the potholes," said Sonu, who works as a collection agent with an insurance firm at Zirakpur
 
 When contacted, authorities said, "We are aware of the bad condition of the roads in the town and we have prepared proposals to carry out repairs. Most of the road maintenance has been approved by the government and taken up for implementation."
 
 Builders take care of internal roads but the roads linking them with other parts of the town are either under construction or badly damaged. The oldest enclaves like Silver City or Royal City provide impactful infrastructure to the residents. But the areas under ZMC are in dilapidated conditions. 
 
  said, "The road construction project was passed by the government long time ago and now we have started implementing it. We are not going to leave any corner of the town with damaged roads, except the illegal colonies in Zirakpur town."
 
