NEW DELHI: Two days after a seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped and left to die in a pit in Ghaziabad’s Loni, the police are yet to arrest the suspect, who has been identified as a 23-year-old youth from Baghpat.

 The girl, battling for life in a Delhi hospital, had gone missing from a wedding party. She was later found lying in a pool of blood. Medical reports confirmed she was raped.
 
 The girl was rushed to hospital where she was put on ventilator. She is still not out of danger. On Sunday, Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal tweeted her shock over the incident. She wrote: “So sick. 7 year old girl brutally raped in Ghaziabad, found in blood in a pit. Now in  . Going to see her in Delhi hospital right now (sic).” She followed this with another tweet: “One of worst case I hv seen. She's on ventilator, battling for life! 22 year old rapist absconding. Shud arrested… given death penalty (sic).”
 
  
  
 
 Maliwal said words failed to express how she felt after meeting the girl and her family members. “The girl was beaten up to such an extent that she is now battling for life. Her parents aren’t too well-off and I insist that they be provided proper compensation. I will write to the authorities for the same,” she said.
 
 The girl’s father told TOI, “We had gone to a relative’s wedding. We assumed that she would be playing with her cousins. We had no clue when she disappeared. It’s so painful to see our daughter suffer like this. Police have constantly been in touch with us and assured us that the culprit would be nabbed at the earliest.”
 
 L B Yadav, sub-inspector at Loni Police Station, said they had identified the suspect after scanning video footage from the wedding. “The suspect has been identified as a 23-year-old from Baghpat in UP. He was among the many guests at the wedding.” A stole recovered from the spot where the girl was found proved as a vital clue. “We matched it through the wedding video,” Yadav said.
 
 “The suspect was the only person missing from the wedding. We questioned his parents who told us that he had run away to Pune,” said a police officer. A team from Loni was sent to Maharashtra thereafter. “We are constantly in touch with them and as soon as they have an update, they will contact us,” said Yadav.
 
 The survivor’s condition, meanwhile, continues to be serious. One of the doctors, requesting anonymity, said: “The girl is unconscious and in ICU. She has injury marks all over her body as well as on private parts. Her entire face has been damaged and her lips are swollen. She was literally eaten by the accused.”
 
 A police constable said the family were not from the city. They had come from Patiala for the wedding and didn’t know anyone.
 
