MUMBAI: Less than a week after  , the coach of the national men's team, sat across the table with the Committee of Administrators (CoA) to negotiate a pay hike for cricketers, coaches and support staff, and suggested that the coach be allotted a berth in the national selection committee, the   has sent out a statement inviting applications (read: CVs) for  's role.

 A statement sent out on Thursday morning read: "BCCI would like to call upon interested candidates to apply for the position of 'Head Coach' for Indian cricket team (men). The process has been initiated since the term of the current coach concludes with the  . The present head coach (Kumble) will be a direct entry for the process."
 
 A senior official in the know of things told TOI: "There's no time at all because the team will leave for the West Indies soon after the Champions Trophy concludes. So, if the process has to begin, it has to begin now."
 
 The official added: "Anil's contract concludes with the Champions Trophy, so even if his contract has to be renewed/extended, the process has to be followed."
 
 It may not be as simple an explanation as the official makes it out to be. Well-placed sources in BCCI told TOI hours after releasing the statement that "Anil is on a sticky wicket". However, none was willing to specify.
 
 The BCCI statement further added: "To ensure a fair and completely transparent process, a nominee of the CoA will oversee the entire process along with the Cricket Advisory Committee".
 
 The BCCI's three-member Cricket Advisory Committee comprises  ,   and  , who will conduct interviews and seek presentations to select the best possible candidate. The BCCI had followed a similar process back in 2016 when Kumble was appointed head coach, ahead of   - who was clearly interested - and  , who declined the role and instead chose to coach the junior teams. While the process may now take its due course, the decision to invite applications for Kumble's role - while giving him a direct entry to be interviewed - has layers of undertones to it. The fact that BCCI has sought applications despite Kumble enjoying one of India's most successful cricket seasons with the national team - India won five Test series in the last one year including an away one apart from the One-day and T20I series against England - is surprising.
 
 A senior official said: "Those were Tests and the team did well. But going forward, the onus is on the 2019 ICC World Cup". This statement either means BCCI doesn't have the confidence in Kumble to coach the team in the shorter formats or there are other plans being put in place.
 
 Kumble has been at the forefront of demanding pay hikes for cricketers - international and domestic. "He has a style of functioning that's very union-like in approach. Back in 2002-03 too, he was at the forefront of drafting player contracts," said an official.
 
 That aside, in his meetings with the CoA, Kumble had made further demands that included: A better pay packet for cricketers who don't play in the IPL; pay hike for the national coach and captain; place for the coach in the national selection committee.
 
 Top sources say Kumble wanted the coach's pay packet to be hiked from Rs 6.5 crore to Rs 7.5 crore, and should he also sit on the selection committee, that would mean earning an added fee of Rs 60 lakh a year. Whatever demands Kumble made, one thing can be said with absolute clarity - the cricketers have certainly not had any problems with the coach.
 
