AGRA: Infuriated over the shifting of liquor shops to densely populated areas after the  's decision to close those near highways, residents, mostly women, staged protests outside liquor shops and even vandalised some of them here on Sunday. 

 On Sunday, liquor shops were vandalized at Nunhai Nawalganj under Itimad-ud-daula police jurisdiction and   under Shahganj police jurisdiction.
 
 Hailing from marginalised background, the women claimed that the men, mostly daily wage labourers who earn Rs100 a day spend the money on liquor instead of looking after the family. "In the last five years, over 100 women have turned widows in Agra because of liquor shops," alleged  , a resident who took part in a protest in Nunhai. "We won't let these liquor shops to open near our homes. How can government allow such shops to operate from residential areas," asked another woman who works as a domestic help.
 
 After the protest, a few men were detained in Shahganj by police. At the time of filing this report, an FIR was yet to be lodged in the incident.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, local residents of Trans-Yamuna area blocked Agra-Kanpur highway against liquor shops in Katra Wazir Khan area, Trans-Yamuna block A and Nunhai area. Later, the residents of Kamla Nagar, Balkeshwar and Fatehabad road (near   intersection) too joined the protests.
 
 According to a notification issued by Sadakant, additional chief secretary of UP public works department, on Saturday, "The internal roads of the city (currently notified as state highways) connected to a bypass are being declared as additional district roads while city bypasses are being declared as state highways."
 
 District magistrate Gaurav Dayal said, "Protesting against liquor shops is not appropriate. If anyone is operating or has opened a liquor shop by violating the government norms, then one should complain to the local administration who will take necessary action."
 
 According to local administration, 179 liquor shops near 500 meters of highway will be closed out of which 116 will be shifted to other places. Till now, excise department has sealed 63 liquor shops. 
 
