CHENNAI: Fiat Chrysler Automobiles India’s (FCAI) new product strategy has an overwhelming focus on the Jeep brand in general and its soon to be launched, locally-made Jeep Compass in particular. The company, which sold just 288 units in January despite a steep price cut of upto Rs 77,000 on its Punto (priced between Rs 5.45 lakh and Rs 7.50 lakh) and Linea models, has invested $300 million in its Ranjangaon plant in Maharashtra and is getting ready to productionise the Jeep Compass and launch it by the third quarter of this calendar. 

 India will be only the fourth manufacturing hub globally for the model — apart from Brazil, Mexico and China — and the Compass manufactured in Ranjangaon will not only be sold in India but also exported to right-hand drive markets like UK, Japan and Australia.
 
 As for existing models like the Linea and Punto, the Fiat management will take a call on their future if the price mark down does not perk up sales. "We recognise the vehicles are quite late in their life cycles and if the price cuts don't work we will be working fervently on what comes next," said Kevin Flynn, president & MD, Fiat’s Indian operation.
 
 Flynn said the company was "badly hit by demonitisation" and the management is "working with the dealers to help them recover volumes. The price move was part of that. We will see how that goes. If it works fantastic, if it doesn't and we need to something about it we will do it," he said on the question of whether the company will phase out low volume non-Jeep models like the Linea and Punto. FCAI's decision to introduce its MOPAR customercare programme is also part of the "counter measures" being put in place to correct its sales slide, he added.
 
 The Jeep Compass is a critical launch for the company as it sets out to improve its volumes in India. "Jeep is used as a reference for the segment and we need to claim that segment back as our own," said Flynn. "We will launch the model in a range of powertrains and also in 4x4 options. There will be several options true to the DNA of brand Jeep," said Flynn. And although tightlipped on whether the Compass will be priced between Rs18-20 lakh as is the market buzz, he said,"The pricing will be very attractive because local content will be quite high. We're developing new technologies with local suppliers particularly in terms of vehicle weight & mileage. It opens up options for some of the other projects we want to do at Ranjangaon."
 
 FCAI will also look out for other products from the Chrysler line-up. "There are many emerging technologies and broad product platforms in the group and we will see what opportunities that brings us," said Flynn. "Going ahead we will have a range spread across a number of positionings. This is our first step and we expect good volumes from it. But the Jeep brand goes beyond one model. The Jeep Compass is a game changer for us," he said.
 
 As for the Compass sharing its diesel engine with the Tata Q501, he said: "We are recognised as suppliers of superior powertrains and that part of our business will continue. But it is not appropriate to talk about the other company's partnerships until they are made public by them."
 
 
