JAIPUR: A consultative meeting on problems of   patients was held in Jaipur on Monday. Speakers noted the flagrant disregard of the interests of mine workers who work in the industry that is the largest revenue earner for the state. The workers are poorly paid and end up paying with their lives for the extraction of stone. A new ‘Silicosis Watch’ group, it was decided, will gather information, come to the aid of the patients and attempt to influence government policy in favour of poor labourers.

 Many workers, after years of exposure to silica dust in the mines, contract the incurable lung disease called silicosis. “Our administration and governing politicians continue to ignore the constitutional and judicial rights of our own less fortunate brothers and sisters. What media and some concerned authorities focus on is the story of rising death toll of silicosis victims and subsequent inane promises of action usually limited to a stop-gap arrangement in the form of relief or compensation,” the organizers of the meeting, held jointly by Mine Labourers’ Protection Campaign, Ajivika Bureau, Mazdoor   and Dang Vikas Sansthan, said in a statement released to the press.
 
 Once the disease sets in, disability caused by reduced lung function gradually eats away at the worker’s productivity. Dignity and basic rights are stolen from these poor workers. It is estimated that about 30 lakh people in the state suffer from different stages of this debilitating condition.
 
 “The concern is that we will continue to reach for the stars and superpower status on the global stage with utter disregard for the plight of informal labourers and their families – roughly 450 million citizens of this great nation,” the press release said.
 
 The speakers also underlined the “bureaucratic ping-pong” in releasing relief for certified silicosis victims and compensation to the next of kin for those who have lost their lives.
 
 Even patients who were certified by Pneumoconiosis Boards in the state two years ago await compensation, speakers said, adding that many may have died waiting for help from the government.
 
 There are 2.5 crore workers in mining and construction in Rajasthan. Although estimates indicate that about 30 lakh might be affected by silicosis, government data indicates that less than 10,000 have been offered certificates from the Pneumoconiosis Board. Only 2,647 of these patients have been offered relief. In 2013, the   government introduced compensation for victims of silicosis – Rs 1 lakh would be offered in relief to all certified patients, and Rs 3 lakh to the kin of those dying of this condition.
 
 “The bureaucratic process seems to be as crippling as the disease itself,” the press release noted, adding that many patients are condemned to wait endlessly outside the offices of doctors.
 
 The workshop was moderated by  , former member of the   and P K Sisodiya, who has worked extensively with construction labourers. A list of 20 recommendations was made for easier diagnosis and more prompt compensation to victims.
 
 An autonomous ‘Silicosis Watch’ body will be formed to study the conditions of workers and extend support to those suffering. This group will also gather necessary data to attempt to influence government policy.
 
