NEW DELHI: Two groups of   on Wednesday moved  , challenging the latest criteria announced by government for   admissions in the city.

 Justice Manmohan is likely to take up the case on Thursday when the pleas filed by Action Committee of Private Unaided Schools and Forum for Promotion of Quality Education comes up for hearing.
 
 They have also challenged a condition in the allotment letter issued by Delhi Development Authority (DDA), under which they have been ordered to implement neighbourhood scheme while granting admissions.
 
 The pleas were mentioned before a bench of justices Badar Durrez Ahmed and   who allowed the matter to be listed for hearing on Thursday.
 
 Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, in its plea, contended that the restriction in DDA allotment letters is “illegal, arbitrary, unenforceable and unconstitutional”, and sought its quashing.
 
 It has also challenged the December 19 circular of the directorate of education (DoE), under which the government issued admission guidelines for entry level classes for open seats in private unaided schools on private land for 2017-2018 session. The committee says that the guidelines “illegally and arbitrarily distinguished between schools situated on private land and those running on land allotted by DDA”.
 
 The association has also assailed the latest order dated January 7 of LG Anil Baijal approving the nursery admission guidelines for 298 private schools on DDA land. The guidelines state the schools on DDA land “shall not refuse admission to the residents of the locality”. Defining what neighbourhood would mean, it states that students who are residing within 1 km of the school will be preferred and if seats are not filled, preference will be given to students residing within 1-3 km of the school.
 
 “Students residing beyond 6 kms shall be admitted only in case vacancies remain unfilled even after considering all the students within 6 kms area,” as per the guidelines.
 
 The schools have argued that enforcing the clause would result in reducing world class educational institutions into neighbourhood schools and would be violative of their fundamental rights. They have claimed that they have the autonomy to regulate their admissions as per the Delhi School Education Act and the Rules. 
 
 The process for nursery admissions in over 1400 private schools began in the national capital on January 2 and is expected to end on January 23.
 
 
