NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported how a group of hooligans had attacked a few policemen in   when they tried to stop them from allegedly molesting a woman on New Year’s Eve, some video clips of the incident emerged on Thursday. One of the videos shows the men blocking the main road outside the   complex, stopping vehicles and hooting at the passersby.

 Police said they had registered a case of molestation on the basis of eyewitness accounts. They have identified 15-20 youths who had allegedly pelted the cops with stones. 
 
 According to the police, the youths, mostly students preparing for civil services examination, gathered on   around 11.30pm on Saturday. Officers said that personnel from the 3rd battalion deployed in the area to check any untoward situation. 
 
 Around midnight, the youths, who appeared to be drunk, created a ruckus. The videos show some of them dancing in the middle of the road and blocking traffic. In one of the clips, a reveller is seen stopping a Swift Dzire car and riding on the bonnet before cops intervene and pull him down.
 
 Locals said that the mob had swelled to 250-300, blocking both the carriageways of the road. A biker with a woman riding pillion was stopped by the hoodlums. The couple were asked to get off the motorbike and celebrate. When the man refused, one of the youths tried to remove the bike’s key. This led to an argument between the two during which the youth tried to pull the woman’s shawl. She raised an alarm and a group of policemen posted with an emergency response vehicle nearby reached the spot. 
 
  
  Sub-inspector Sajjan Kumar caught two youths whom the woman had identified and took them to the police post on the opposite side of the road. By the time Kumar returned, the couple had left the spot. 
 
 Soon, more youths from nearby PG accommodations gathered on the road, demanding the release of the two alleged harassers. In his complaint, Kumar said that the group of youths suddenly started hurling stones at the police post and three cops—ASI Prakashveer, constable Kuldeep and constable Sunil Sharma— were injured. Prakash had a deep cut on his head. The mob then smashed the windows of the police post and broke open the door in a bid to free the two youths from detention.
 
 “There were a handful of cops at the police post. The youths had broken their sticks and hurled stones on the shutters of the adjoining shops. Soon, a CRPF truck arrived and the mob started throwing stones at the cops. Cops had to use force to disperse the mob. We could not see their faces as all of them were wearing hoodies,” said Sapna, a local resident. 
 
  
  CCTV footage from the adjacent bylane shows the men running away from the spot as soon as police actions begin. Locals said the stone pelting episode went on for nearly half-an-hour after which cops started rounding up the trouble-makers.
 
 A case of molestation under IPC 354, rioting and preventing public servants from conducting duty has been registered against 15-20 youths. A search is on to nab the accused.
 
