KOLKATA: Some of them have been accused of washing dirty linen in public. But all of them insist that’s not why they have spoken out after being sexually abused. Students surviving sexual assault have set up a platform--Women Against   (WASH) --to help women speak out against violation at   and workplaces. With a network of people taking a stand against sexual violators, the group aims at being a watchdog and see how the administration handles complaints of abuse.

 Within a week of being set up by four youngsters on March 28, WASH has 20 supporters and survivors on board, most of them   ,   and   students.
 
 Many of the members-awaiting justice after lodging sexual harassment complaints--admitted being “fed up“ with the “tiring twists of developments“ unfolding at their institutes and workplaces. “Many of the women, who are now part of WASH, have been called liars. We have been accused of having enjoyed the companionship (read sex) and later, crying rape or sex abuse. WASH wants to crack this wall. So, we have decided to create a lot of noise around sexual harassment on campuses,“ said a member, who is also a sexual harassment complainant at JU. “People are just too cosy in their comfort zones, where women are nice as long as they speak for patriarchy or well, does not speak at all. We are women who, despite our lack of privilege, try to speak.“
 
 Anuradha Kapur, director of Swayam, a women's rights organization, welcomed the initiative. “I knew these complainants had got in touch with each other. This is such a good initiative. In cases of sexual harassment, there is always an issue of power and gender. Complainants are fighting against all odds and they need this support. WASH will help them speak out,“ Kapur said.
 
 One of the biggest problems plaguing harassment complainants is the inordinate delay in getting justice. Another JU student, who is part of WASH, said, “At the university , this student kept harassing women continuously . He does not show any guilt and he has this sense of arrogance that no one can do anything to him because he is a professor's son. Our prime objective is to put pressure on the authorities to take speedy action against the guilty.”
 
