NAGPUR: Over 1500 candidates who remain in fray after the last date of withdrawal on Tuesday will hardly get ten days to campaign intensely. The NMC elections is scheduled on February 21 and as per election commission norms public campaign will have to be wound up 48 hours before polldate, that is by 5pm on Feb 19 .

 Though every party tries to plan it in a way to minimize rebels and dissidents, it is a fact of every election that no one actually succeeds in doing that. This time too it is no exception, Right from the   which is the favourites to win, to the  , the BSP every party faces discords arising out of ticket distribution. The problem was so serious that the parties were shy of making public the final list of nominated people. 
 
 The BJP, though not spared of rebel threat, was the only party to declare its list hours before the nominations process closed. The Congress declared four hours after the deadline for filing papers. The NCP and BSP took two days while the Shiv Sena came out with their nominees names finally on Monday, three days after the nominations ended. 
 
 The Sena list has 121 names and includes ‘rejects’ from other parties. Anil Dhawade, denied by the BJP has got it from Sena.
 
 The Congress as well the BJP are confident that by Tuesday evening dust would settle on rebel factor as party leaders would manage to secure withdrawal of most of the overzealous party men who filed papers without waiting for the official nod and tag. A couple days may be required to get the party act together. So only by Sunday the party campaigns may pick up.
 
 Congress veteran and ex-MP   said individual candidates have already started moving around in their localities. “The only good thing about the four-member ward (prabhag) is that the team of four candidates can pool in their resources and help each other in covering weaklings,” he added.
 
 BJP campaign chief Anil Sole said the party was way ahead and did not expect any threat. “Everything has been sorted out. Now we are all set to roll our manifesto to campaign in top gear,” he told TOI.
 
 City Congress president Vikas Thakre said the multiple B forms issued would not pose any problem. “It a strategy to keep the rival parties confused. Quite in contrast, Sole insists the BJP manifesto will reflect positivity and lay road map of concrete development planned for the city by the party.
 
