AHMEDABAD: The   has decided to seriously consider waste segregation at the doorstep, and is thinking of not collecting waste from societies unless it is segregated. The AMC is now creating a plan for doorstep waste segregation across the city.

 Director of solid waste management of AMC, Harshad Solanki, said when asked, “A vehicle will only collect segregated waste. There is all possibility that the AMC may bring a rule that vehicles may not collect unsegregated waste from societies.”
 
 Officials said that in the four wards in western part of the city AMC has already implemented the waste segregation programme in 5,000 houses and soon this number will go up to 50,000. 
 
 In order to create awareness about waste segregation, AMC, along with the   has declared a competition in waste segregation among corporates, hotels and schools and colleges. 
 
 The competition will be launched on June 5, the World Environment Day. Called ‘My Waste My Responsibility’, the competition aims to create awareness about cleanliness and waste segregation.
 
 Also, on this World Environment Day, the Union ministry of urban development and the   has plans to declare India as a country with 100% segregation at source of waste in all urban areas.
 
 Mayor Gautam Shah said the objective of the competition is to propagate the message, ‘reduce, recover, recycle and reuse’.
 
 Officials said each participant will be judged on the basis of the different parameters. Of the 100 marks, 40% weightage will be given to effectiveness of waste segregation, while 15% will be on location of dustbins, and another 25% weightage will be given to on-site treatment, while the remaining 20% will be for allocation of dustbins and use of mass media to create awareness.
 
 Vimal Ambani the past chairman,   said that an individual generates 763 grams of waste every day, of which 14 grams of waste is plastic. The need of the hour is to segregate the waste. Pirana like mounds are a major cause of concern, and there has been no solution so far. During the discussions, the Mayor said that there was greater awareness among the people in Ahmedabad as compared to other cities. During the Swachhata competition, 1.13 lakh people had downloaded the city’s   and 1.02 lakh were active. Of these 19,400 expressed their happiness about the cleanliness in the city.
 
 
 Even as Ahmedabad struggles to deal with the toxic mount Pirana, it is imperative that the AMC makes segregation of waste at source mandatory. With Ahmedabad generating 4,000 tonnes of waste per day, the civic body should not shy away from imposing a hefty fine on violators to ensure a green future for the city. 
 
 
