NAGPUR: A music programme was organized by Kalashrushti Bahu-uddeshiya Sanstha to pay tributes to playback singer  , who charmed generations with his soulful renditions, at Hindi Mor Bhavan, Sitabuldi, on his 19th death anniversary on Tuesday.

 The programme began with Harshel presenting ‘Raat ne’ from the 1957 movie ‘Ek Gaon ki Kahani’ to get the audience settled into the evening. Later, Madhav Lokhe sang ‘Tasvir’ from   (1955).
 
 Some of Mahmood’s hits like ‘Tasvir banata hu tasvir nahi banti’, ‘Raat ne kya kya khwab dikhaye’ and duets like and ‘Aha Rimjhim’ were sung by Apurva Masodkar, Raju Khadse, Sudha Kashiv, Harshel and Lalita Thomas, founders of the organization, and others. As many as 30 songs, including the ones sung by Nutan and  , were presented.
 
 The stage was set with two synthesizers, a set of conga, a mridangam and an electronic drum. Harshel was at the helm of one of the synthesizers. During the course of the concert, he would sometimes sing complete songs while playing music as well as introducing subsequent songs and their singers. His wife Lalita also doubled up as an announcer.
 
 The audience’s excitement kept growing after each song and encouraged the upcoming performers to enchant them with Mahmood’s gems. Listeners praised Mona Varma, evening’s senior most performer, as she sang ‘Aye mere dil kahin aur chal’ from 1952 movie ‘Daag.’
 
 ‘Usne Kaha Tha’ (1961) movie’s duet number ‘Ae rimjhim’, originally sung by Mahmood and Lata, was presented by Kashiv and Masodkar. The duo also presented ‘Itna na mujhse tu pyaar badha’ from   and   starrer   (1961). 
 
 Lalita gave a solo performance singing ‘Teri nigahon mein teri hi bahon mai’ from ‘Bahana’ (1965) while Harshel performed ‘Ae dil mujhe aisi jagah le chal’ from 1950 movie ‘Arzoo’. The last song of the programme, ‘Tu roop ki rani’ from 1993 movie ‘Roop ki Rani Choron Ka Raja’, was performed by the husband-wife duo.
 
 “Talat saahab’s music will always be timeless and it gives me great pleasure to perform his work in front of people,” said Thomas.
 
 
