KOLKATA: A 40-year-old   was allegedly “hit“ by a   when he tried to stop him. The incident took place around 10.45am on Tuesday in front of the   Police said the constable -Rajiv Das, now posted with the Park Circus traffic -has dislocated his collar bone and suffered multiple fractures on his left leg besides having bleeding injuries. He was rushed to the CNMC Hospital initially and later shifted to a private facility in the evening. The accused, Saheed Khan (18), was later nabbed.

 The incident has yet again brought to light how implementation of the `Save Life Safe Drive' campaign launched months ago under the guidance of chief minister   is a serious challenge in the city.
 
 According to cops, the OC, additional OC, a sergeant and two constables were on duty near the Don Bosco School where they were checking rash and negligent driving.“Das saw the biker coming towards him at a break-neck speed and without a helmet.He signalled the rider to stop.To our utter disbelief, he didn't stop and hit Das head on. The impact threw Das in the air. As he fell on the ground, he started bleeding and both my handkerchiefs were soaked in blood,“ said a witness.
 
 The impact also threw the biker off the two-wheeler.Even as he got up to flee, the other officers on duty nabbed him. Khan is a resident of nearby   and a student of a top English medium school in New TownRajarhat area. Khan was handed over to the Beniapukur police. “We have registered the case under various IPC and Motor Vehicles sections. The accused was found to have obstructed the police, riding in a rash and negligent manner, and that too without a helmet and licence. We are checking whether his Pulsar, which has been seized, was registered and whether his licence is genuine,“ said police.
 
 A senior cop said that they are scared to take any steps against helmetless riders in the guard. “The bikers intimidate us even if we ask them to wear helmets,“the officer said.
 
 The worst affected areas are Jorasanko in north Kolkata and Park Street, Park Circus, Gariahat and Kalighat in south Kolkata, said police. Several were found to be repeat offenders. According to a top traffic police officer in Lalbazar, a study of the CCTV footage and challan patterns in the city has given them the idea about five most vulnerable areas in the city as far as rogue biking is concerned. They are Park Circus-Mullickbazar, Diamond Harbour-James Long Sarani, Cossipore, Beliaghata Main Road and the Port area.
 
 
