Nagpur: Velgaon villagers created ruckus after a 65-year-old woman was mauled by a tiger in her farm adjoining Gothangaon of Umred-Karhandla (U-K) Wildlife Sanctuary on Friday afternoon. The victim, Parbata Rajram Parteki, was working in her farm in Velgoan when a lurking tiger attacked her. The farm is on the edge of sanctuary near Gothangaon. When Parbata shouted, her frightened son and daughter-in-law rushed for her help but in vain. The tiger is learnt to have dragged the body 500 metres away to the park’s core area. According to a section of villagers, as forest officials did not reach the spot in time, people got aggravated and resorted to rasta-roko till 6.30pm. They did not even allow to remove the body of the victim for post-mortem. Even as a motley crowd of around 1,000 people gathered at the spot, newly posted range forest officer (RFO) Ghanshyam Thombre was nowhere seen. There was no RFO posted in the range for last three months.  Revenue department and police officials had already reached the spot. In the evening, assistant conservator of forest (ACF) GP Bobde, too, reached the spot and gave Rs50,000 cash to kin of the victim. The relatives of the victim and locals were demanding compensation of Rs25 lakh and job to one of the family members of Partekis. However, Bobde, honorary wildlife warden Roheet Karoo and other officials pacified the people and said balance amount of Rs7.50 lakh towards compensation will be paid on Monday. According to the villagers and guides, the tiger was being sighted in the area for last 4-5 days. “It was expected from the department to install camera traps and physically monitor the tiger and alert the villagers but this was not done, which irked the locals. The camera traps were installed only after the incident.”  This is the second human kill by a tiger in Gothangaon area. Earlier, on October 24, Vasudeo Tima Mandhre (65) from Dahegaon adjoining Gothangaon was mauled by a tiger when he ventured deep into the forest to collect leaves.