BHUBANESWAR: The state government is staring at a huge shortfall in mining revenue despite a significant rise in production and dispatch of minerals. 

 The government had set a target of generating Rs 7,000 crore from the mining sector but the earnings till the end of February is likely to be in the region of Rs 3,715 crore, steel and mines minister   said in a written reply to the state assembly on Friday. The mining revenue is a significant factor in the state's 
 
 With just a month left for completion of the current financial year, the state government said it would not be possible to achieve the target. Officials in the state steel and mines department are worried the collection could be lesser than the Rs 5,797 crore achieved in 2015-16. Though the minister did not cite any reason behind the poor collection of royalty despite an increase in production, experts feel the sharp fall in prices of ore (especially iron ore) is responsible for low revenue.
 
 Available data in the department shows that iron ore production and dispatch from different mines is estimated to be 107 million tonne (MT) by February-end against 80 MT last year. So far, coal dispatch has been estimated to be around 125 MT against 121 MT dispatched in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal.
 
 "Prices of low-grade ore have been slashed by almost 50 per cent. These are being sold at Rs 500 to 600 per tonne. How can you expect more revenue from the mining sector?" said a mining exporter who did not wish to be quoted. Mining activities, which had come to a halt in Odisha following the mining scam in 2009-10, has flourished after the new Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act, 2015, came into force.
 
 The new mining law has put an end to preferential allocation and introduced e-auction for allocation of mining blocks. The state government has so far auctioned an iron ore, limestone and manganese block each. While   bagged the iron ore block in   district in March 2016, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and Thriveni Earthmovers Private Limited (TEPL) bagged the limestone and manganese blocks, respectively.
 
