Navi Mumbai:   has no plans to surrender its major drinking water resource,   dam, to the newly formed Panvel City Municipal Corporation ( ). The Panvel civic body has appealed to the state irrigation department to hand over the dam. Cidco said it requires the dam water to meet the supply to areas (see box) under its jurisdiction.

 Cidco said the water that it draws from various sources, including Hetawane dam, to supply to Kharghar, Kalamboli, Kamothe and New Panvel nodes will continue, even after they are transferred under PCMC’s jurisdiction. A major chunk of Cidco supplies —171 MLD out of 210 MLD—are going to these nodes that will come under PCMC soon.
 
 The Panvel civic body will, however, maintain the distribution system, added the sources.“Whether the state hands over the dam to PCMC or not, we cannot surrender our water resource, as we need it to meet the demand,” said a Cidco source.
 
 Currently, Cidco is able to supply 210 MLD out of the total 235 MLD demand for water in its areas. It hopes to meet the existing shortfall of 25 MLD with augmented supplies from its various sources. 
 
 Meanwhile, PCMC has made a representation before the government that the state irrigation department should hand over the dam to the civic body in order ensure supply for a projected demand of 300 MLD by 2021.
 
 “We are hoping to have our own dam like  , which has Morbe that is the principal supplier to its areas,” said a PCMC official.
 
 By 2021, Panvel will have an estimated population of 25 lakh and drinking water supply cap at 135 litre per capita daily. 
 
 The latter is the benchmark supply amount, including losses, as per the Union ministry of urban development. Many civic bodies adopted the measure after last year’s drinking water crisis in the state.
 
 But Cidco cited its agreement with Hetawane authorities to increase its supply from 100 MLD to 150 MLD . Cidco has already paid around Rs 144 crore to the dam authorities for the extra supply. Cidco needs more water from the dam to meet demand for the upcoming airport PAP rehabilitation pockets at Vadghar and Vahal besides   and the international airport. 
 
 A senior Cidco official said, “We get 100 MLD currently from the dam. The pipeline work is underway and will be completed in December. We need the water to meet the demand in the different nodes.”
 
