KOZHIKODE: Calicut   will approach the   seeking relaxation in UGC directive asking the varsities to specify the mode of delivery of the courses -- whether done through regular or distance education -- in the degree certificates and mark lists. 

 Varsity authorities said that stating the mode of delivery as Open and Distance Learning (ODL) in the degree certificates issued to students of school of distance education, who account for majority of the students under the varsity, was discriminatory and raised the concern that it would make non-regular courses second-grade degrees.
 
 The varsity has around 2.1 lakh students enrolled under the non-regular mode.
 
 Varsity authorities said the university has same syllabus and regulation for both regular and distance education programmes and discriminating the degrees of the two streams was unfair.
 
 "Tens of thousands of students are going to get affected because of the UGC directive. The situation in   is different from other states as a large number of students with good academic track record enrol under the distance and ODL programmes due to financial reasons and shortage of seats in regular colleges. Their employment and higher education opportunities would be severely hit if they are provided a degree certificate which is different from that of regular students," said syndicate member   who is also the convenor of the three-member sub-committee constituted by the varsity to look into the issue.
 
 The UGC had last year issued a direction stating that all universities should reflect the mode of delivery of programme on all documents issued to students during or after the completion of programme in order "to erase ambiguities between conventional mode degrees with that of ODL mode degrees".
 
 It would make it incumbent for the varsities to clearly differentiate the degree certificates, mark lists and other certificates issued to regular and SDE students.
 
 "We have decided to approach the state government to take up the matter with the UGC. The varsity will also write to the UGC in this regard," he said.
 
 "The decision of the UGC is very discriminatory and against student interests. The majority of students enrolled under ODL programmes of the varsities are also attending regular classes in counselling centres and parallel colleges," A Prabhakaran, convenor of the action council formed to raise the issue said.
 
 The action council comprising students and representatives of counselling centres would stage a march to the varsity on March 15, raising the issue.
 
