CHENNAI: There is little legal about the State   in Tamil Nadu. Though the tenure of the entire team, headed by  , former chief justice of  , expired on February 9, it continues to hold office and enjoy all attendant perks.

 When TOI contacted a member asking how they could continue in office, he said a letter had been sent to the chief secretary requesting ‘reconstitution’ of the commission by retaining the entire team. “Since the government has not said no, there is no bar in our continuation,” he said. A former high court judge, however, says reconstitution of the commission is a totally new process and there is no justification for the current team to remain in ‘service’ after end of its term. During its entire three-year tenure, the commission submitted two reports including one on amendments to CrPC, and was ‘working on’ a third report, sources told TOI.
 
 It was in 1994 that the state law commission was first constituted in Tamil Nadu. It was reconstituted in 1997, and was in existence till 2002. On January 21, 2014, the Jayalaltihaa government revived the commission after 12 years, and appointed Justice Dhinakar as chairman. He has been accorded the status of the chief justice of Madras high court, and all perks and privileges available to him. The government, however, remained unresponsive to the chairman’s request for a second official vehicle. Another retired judge of   Justice T Sudhanthiram was made a full-time member, but he later resigned the post, having opted for another post-retirement assignment.
 
 As per the statute, the commission was to have a chairman, assisted by two full-time members and two part-time members, besides a member-secretary. Quite controversially, a retired additional secretary-level officer was appointed member-secretary all along. Though it did not go down well with serving bureaucrats, few dared to question the move. The remaining posts are being occupied by retired district judges.
 
 Now that the term has been completed without much to show, many other retired judges of high courts and district judges, as also bureaucrats, were expecting the team to step aside till it is reconstituted, either with the existing team as has been requested or with new members. However, the team keeps attending office awaiting ‘no’ or ‘yes’ for an answer from the government.
 
 A host of state government employees including assistants are ‘doing duty’ at the commission which has been permitted to engage its own staff like drivers, with consolidated pay from the government.
 
 The commission's recommendations are advisory in nature, and it has powers to suo motu review existing laws and interpret statutes. It can advise the state government as and when the latter seeks its opinion, and also receive petitions pertaining to legal issues and forward them to the state government.
 
