GUWAHATI: The Centre's approval for setting up an   in Kamrup district, on the outskirts of the city, has led to hope and dejection in equal measure. 

 The medical fraternity in the state affiliated to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Assam Medical Services Association (AMSA) on Thursday welcomed the Centre's approval of setting up of an   (AIIMS) at Changsari in Kamrup in the outskirts of the city.
 
 Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted, "our efforts to overhaul facilities in Assam will get massive boost with AIIMS with facilities of super specialty health care to people."
 
 Citing that diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular, trauma, diabetes and road traffic accident incidents have been on the rise in the state, medical professionals said AIIMS in the state will be functioning as a referral centre and will be able to address the key health issues that, till now, existing facilities were not able to cover in a feasible manner.
 
 "AIIMS in Assam will also be able to cater research in complicated medical subjects. It will benefit the northeast. Such research will help the medical fraternity more than ever. At the same time, people in the state should know that AIIMS in Assam will be a referral centre that will look into major ailments. People here will definitely be benefited in the long term," said Satyajit Borah, vice president of the state chapter of IMA.
 
 Echoing his view was Kanak Talukdar of AMSA who said that AIIMS will usher in a revolutionary phase in medical sciences particularly in research oriented topics. "This is a great beginning for Assam that has been witnessing shortcomings in the health sector for a while now. Doctors who are oriented towards research will really benefit," said Talukdar.
 
 Some, however, were sceptical about the move. "The city is already burdened with traffic and crowd. If Raha or some place besides Guwahati had been selected, this would have given an opportunity for these places to be developed," said a doctor.
 
 Meanwhile, a day before PM   lays the foundation of the AIIMS campus, the Central Assam AIIMS Demand Committee came out on the streets of Raha in Nagaon district to protest the cabinet's approval of setting up of AIIMS in the outskirts of Guwahati.
 
 The committee has called for a middle Assam bandh on Friday. Raha was one of the proposed sites for AIIMS in Assam. Guwahati was preferred over Raha due to its better connectivity.
 
 
