Accidents are waiting to happen at the incomplete ingress point near hotel Seven Heaven along the  , given the delay in finishing the project by the   (NHAI). 

 Another concern is the unregulated movement of vehicles through the gap between the Mumbai-Agra highway and the adjoining service road. 
 
 For the convenience of motorists, the NHAI had decided to construct an ingress point near hotel Seven Heaven so that motorists, who cannot take the Highway from either Dwarka or the Indiranagar underpass, can access it from the point, which is nearly 2.5km from Indiranagar. 
 
 The ingress point was planned about four years ago and its work was taken up a couple of years back. But it was left incomplete in between. Meanwhile, the NHAI put up concrete slabs to close the puncture to ensure that motorists do not use it before the entire work is complete.
 
 But for the past many months, motorists have pushed some concrete slabs aside and started to use the puncture to move from the service road to the highway and vice versa. 
 
 Considering that there is no blinker or any sign board, accidents are just waiting to happen. Residents of the area said accidents have not happened so far only for the fact that the service road having two-way traffic is too narrow, which does not allow the vehicles to speed. 
 
 Many motorists from the Dhule side, who take the elevated structure near Adgaon side of the highway, avoid the Dwarka ramp to enter the city while moving towards Ranenagar, Lekhanagar, Ambad police station or Indiranagar areas. Instead, they make use of the puncture to proceed towards these areas. The reason being that from Dwarka ramp till the place of this proposed ingress point, the distance is approximately 5km and motorists do not want to use the narrow service road. 
 
 If a motorist coming from Dhule side fails to take the down ramp at Dwarka, they have no other point to take the city road and have to drive all the way beyond Garware, which should be roughly 6km from Dwarka, to take a U-turn to proceed elsewhere. 
 
 Four years ago, the widened stretch of the NH-3 passing through the city was thrown open after the completion of the elevated corridor. The widened stretch of the highway has quite a few flyovers, underpasses and bridges between Garware point and Adgaon Naka to ensure there is no hindrance to the highway traffic. On completion of the highway, it was noticed that while the rush on service roads along the highway was heavy, the six-lane highway was hardly being used by motorists. If a motorist from the city has to take the Mumbai-Agra highway to go towards Pimpalgaon, Dhule and other places, the only access point were at Dwarka and Mumbai Naka, so a large number of motorists, mainly heavy trucks coming from the Ambad industrial area, had to ply through the service road for nearly five to six km to reach   or Dwarka to access the highway. 
 
 Keeping this in mind, an ingress point was created near   about three years ago and opened for motorists. While the problem of motorists (on the stretch between Mumbai Naka and Garware point) of accessing the highway towards Dhule was solved, the problem of motorists towards Mumbai on the other side of the highway is pending. 
 
 NHAI officials said they would take up the ingress point work soon.
 
