HYDERABAD: A rare surgery for a shoulder tumour was successfully performed in the city. While the surgery was done six months ago on 46-year-old  , she has now achieved 160 degree shoulder rotation, the highest possible in such surgeries, doctors said. The advanced reverse shoulder replacement surgery was performed on her at the   and Arthoscopy. 

 Padma, a beautician by profession, was diagnosed with malignant bone tumour of proximal end of  , the long bone in the upper arm. Following numerous tests and medical analysis, it was decided that she had to go in for an advanced reverse shoulder replacement with 'muscle transfer', a recent innovative procedure in the field. 
 
 "Such a procedure has been successfully attempted very few times globally. If she was treated with routine conventional surgical techniques, she would not have been able to do routine activities such as lifting her arm, combing her hair and couldn't have pursued her profession," said Dr  , shoulder and knee surgeon, who led the rare surgery.
 
 The patient's condition made it necessary that the tumour bone mass as well as the muscles which aid movement of the shoulder, be completely removed. 
 
 The procedure involved interchanging the positions of the ball joint and the socket in the shoulder.
 
 "A rounded metal ball was implanted in the location of the earlier socket and a plastic concave shell, that could fit in the round head of the ball, was implanted at the earlier ball location. This kind of interchanging procedure is called the reverse shoulder replacement," said Reddy about the procedure. 
 
 Speaking about the muscle transfer, he said, this was "to aid shoulder movement and was accomplished by transferring the chest wall muscle to the arm. This muscle transfer ensures external rotation of the arm."
 
 Two other patients who underwent this procedure elsewhere in the world accomplished 150 degree and 120 degree external rotation only, making Padma's surgery an immense success.
 
 After an advanced reverse shoulder replacement with 'muscle transfer', the patient has achieved 160-degree shoulder rotation. Two other patients who underwent this procedure elsewhere in the world accomplished 150 degree and 120 degree external rotation only, making Padma's surgery an immense success.
 
