LA PAZ: Rain, uninvited and persistent, doesn't need to tell you that rallying can be a lonely pursuit. Okay, maybe it adds to the strange overall melancholy of the whole thing, something that even the backslappingly male camaraderie of driving into a bivouac after a gruelling stage cannot dismiss.

 It probably gets worse when the downpour forces a cancellation of 'hostilities' with the elements, the terrain, the machine and yourself, as happened with the sixth stage of the   between Oruro to   here on Sunday.
 
 Do you want to go out there and correct the mistakes of the earlier stages, or do you want to sit back and catch a much-needed break? And has the torrent washed away all the earlier traces, and is setting up new ones forcing renewed navigation? Questions, questions.
 
 Rains lasting more than 12 hours washed away the tracks and swelled up rivers in the mountainous region of Bolivia, resulting in the 527-km stage ­ the longest of the rally this year ­ to be called off.
 
 The images at the La Paz bivouac told a tale in itself. Trucks lumbering in to find their camps dug the tracts deeper and deeper, and as machines were hosed down and the dismantling to the bone was underway, the smell of fuel mingling in the wet, heavy air created just the atmosphere environmentalists warn you about. Yet, there was a strange bonding that the rain brought. The raincoats were out and work carried on despite the torrent and the rivulets disrupting well-laid recovery plans.
 
 Yet, it left the participants weary, fatigued and knackered - and if only their vehicles could also talk. In such a scenario, a forced rest day can bring out contrasting moods in a camp. It gets lonelier as a biker, especially when you find yourself pushed back in the rankings despite you having the best ride in a long time. Watching your bike being hosed down ­ ironically, in safe shelter from the rain ­ you feel someone would wash away the little ­ exponential in the ultimate result really ­ glitches that botched up the start of the race.
 
 MotoSports Team Rally's   would then probably find momentary solace in laundary therapy ­ happy to throw in heaps of his mud-caked gear and apparel into the machine and mull quietly over its soothing hum. "I'm driving the best of my career here," he said, reticent at first but not too glumly either, "But the little details of the earlier stage has pulled me back. It's frustrating, because the aim now is to finish good."
 
 You could understand Santosh's predicament a wee bit better when observing how his teammate,   was literally walking on air in his flipflops. Even you would, if this was only your third rally and you found yourself at a commendable 11th position in your Dakar debut here. Rodrigues was quipping, being his funny self, helping the team staff poke out rain water from under the tent ­ generally being in a happy place despite the overall gloom of the pouring rain. "A rest day? What would I do? I'd just let my body calm down and give it a rest. You cannot keep thinking about the race all the time. You need to switch off sometimes," he said.
 
