NEW DELHI: An integrated public   system for the entire national capital region is one of the key recommendations of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority which submitted on Friday a comprehensive report before the   to tackle the menace of air pollution in the capital.

 The authority said an integrated transport system would encourage commuters from Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and other satellite towns to use it instead of driving their own vehicles which only aggravates pollution levels.
 
 The authority in its report suggested various measures to reduce number of private vehicles on the roads and said services provided by DTC and   should be strengthened to attract people to use public transport.
 
 Appearing before a bench of Justices   and Deepak Gupta, advocate  , who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, placed EPCA’s report. The report said Delhi Metro had agreed to induct 486 additional coaches by December 2017 for existing lines, out of which 270 coaches had already been procured. It said Delhi Metro has submitted a proposal for getting 602 additional coaches, which was being examined by the Delhi government.
 
 It said Delhi will have to reduce PM10 levels by 74 per cent, PM2.5 by 70 per cent, and nitrogen dioxide by 37.5 per cent to meet the global standards of clean air which could be achieved by taking various measures including reducing the number of private vehicles on the roads.
 
 “Public health risk from air pollution is grave and growing: The Global Burden of Disease estimates for 2017 have shown that early deaths related to PM2.5 in India are the second highest in the world and ozone-related deaths, though lower than PM2.5, are the highest in the world,” the report said. 
 
 It said that use of coal and kerosene oil for cooking in hotels, restaurants, and road side eateries should be banned. It suggested that their commercial licence be linked to using clean fuels. The Authority also recommended permanent closure of Badarpur Thermal Power Plant.
 
 Singh also urged the court to ban polluting fuels like furnace oil and pet coke in the   region, which are being used in industrial plants.
 
 Although Delhi Pollution Control Committee had declared them unacceptable fuel in the capital way back in 1996, they are not banned outside the Delhi borders and are being increasingly used by industries in NCR. 
 
 Emphasising that quality of fuel plays a critical role in quantum of pollution generated, the Authority informed the apex court that sulphur level in furnace oil and pet coke is multiple times higher than other acceptable fuels. The Centre told the court that seven months’ time was needed to allow the companies shift to cleaner fuels.
 
