COIMBATORE: The city police have identified two more suspects, who are relatives, in the murder of   and formed special teams to nab the duo before they surrender before any  . One of them has a murder case pending against him with the city police, while their relative was an accused in a  .

 “We have identified two more suspects and efforts are on to nab them,” said  , deputy commissioner of police, Coimbatore city.
 
 According to the police, the suspects, identified as   of Ukkadam, were on the run and likely to surrender before the judicial magistrate court in Coimbatore or neighbouring districts on Monday. “We have deployed special teams in various places. Our plan is to arrest them before they surrender before the court,” the deputy police commissioner said.
 
 M Anshath, 30, a realtor from Podanur, had on Friday evening surrendered before the judicial magistrate court–V in connection with the murder case. The police have filed a petition before the court seeking his custody for three days. “We hope to get his custody on Monday and will grill him for further lead,” Saravanan said.
 
 H Farook, 31, of Bilal Estate in South Ukkadam here, was a scrap dealer. A member Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam (DVK), he was also an atheist. Farook was hacked to death by a four-member gang near Ukkadam sewage treatment plant late on Thursday.
 
 Farook had created a WhatsApp group where he posted rationalistic views against his religion. He had also posted rationalistic messages on his Facebook page, which were criticized by the members of his community.
 
 Meanwhile, a team of special investigation division of city Crime Branch-CID has also launched a probe into the murder. “We are collecting the details of the accused,” a source said.
 
 The case, the police said, has similarities with the murder of Hindu Munnani activist C Sasikumar, 36, who was also hacked to death by a four-member gang on September 22, 2016.
 
 “Sasikumar’s is suspected to be a case of communal murder. He had also estranged the Muslim community with hatred speeches. Farook was also hacked to death over communal-related issues. So, we have plans to question the Farook murder suspects in connection with the Sasikumar case,” Crime Branch-CID police said.
 
