LUCKNOW: In a first,   Adityanath Yogi on Thursday paid a   of the state capital sending the khaki clad into a tizzy. The   ended with Yogi announcing that this was certainly not his last visit and the exercise would continue till the "rule of law" was established once again in the state. 

 "It may be my first visit, but it is certainly not the last," the CM, who has retained the state home ministry with him in the portfolio allocation on Wednesday evening, said talking to the media after the inspection. Summing up his inspection, Yogi said now the police would register all complaints that come to them and assured performance of the cops will not be judged on the basis of crime statistics but on the sense of security that the police creates among the people.
 
 It was around 11:10 am when the CM's motorcade reached   police station with the director general of police (DGP) Javeed Ahmed in tow. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Manzil Saini, who apparently got a clue from the unscheduled movement of CM's fleet on city roads, was present at the police station. Minutes later, IG, Lucknow Zone, A Satish Ganesh and DIG  , too, joined them.
 
 The first stop was at the visitors' room at the police station where the CM took stock of the arrangements in place and availability of drinking water and other necessary amenities. He directed the officials to ensure that the visitors, who are generally complainants and victims of crime, should be treated with respect and in a friendly manner. Next was the office cabin of police station in charge Inspector DK Upadhyay where the CM complimented the officials for its upkeep and tidiness. The next stop was the office room where FIRs are lodged.
 
 In conversation with officer on duty, assistant sub inspector Moolchand Verma, the CM enquired about the manner in which the complaints were registered and the ratio of them being converted into FIRs. "All complaints should be lodged and action initiated ....people should not leave this room wanting," he said. To encourage the cops for free and fair registration of FIRs, the CM said the number of crime cases registered will not be treated as the sole parameter of performance.
 
 Thereafter, the CM headed for the Mahila Thana situated in the same compound and enquired about the status of basic amenities like washroom and their accommodation. "We have basic facilities and a hostel for housing," replied constable Priyanka. Yogi asked them to handle complaints of women seriously and try to extend immediate relief to the victims by offering them a patient hearing and assured the women cops that steps will be taken for providing them with housing facilities instead of the hostels.
 
 The CM then took the staircase to reach the Crime Branch office where he interacted with the officials who informed him about the nature of cases of organised crime that the unit deals in. "Do you the infrastructure you need," Yogi asked them after a patient hearing and directed the DGP to prepare a proposal for further upgradation of the crime branch. Yogi also spent time at the cyber cell enquiring about its functioning and details of how the cops handle complaints of harassment. The inspection lasted around half an hour.
 
 
