MEERUT: As the   goes to the polls without a manifesto in Uttar Pradesh, claiming it doesn’t need one because the party keeps all its promises, its social media team has now declared the issues it would be looking at if it comes to power. 

 The   has traditionally never released a manifesto for any of the elections it has fought. In the runup to the 2014   elections, party supremo   had decried manifestos of other parties as nothing but tall claims, and that her party believed in doing “real development work” for the people instead.
 
 An eight-point list of issues that the BSP will take up in 2017 have been announced on the party’s official Twitter handle. 
 
 Ram Achal  , BSP UP chief, said, “Before coming to power, political parties promise all sorts of things to influence voters by means of their manifestoes. But the BSP is not one of those parties which promise things and do not fulfill them. This is the reason that we have not announced any manifesto this year. But yes, the list of issues that the party has come up with on social media is a glimpse of what BSP plans to focus on, once it is in power.”
 
 The eight-point list include the law and order situation in the state, women’s safety, social justice, employment for all, development schemes, electricity, education for all and policies for benefit of the public. The list was shared by BSP’s official Twitter handle for  , @BSPUP2017, with the caption, “Uttar Pradesh ko utaam banane do, Behen ji ko ane do” (To make UP perfect, let Mayawati come to power).
 
 Stressing on women’s safety and the law and order situation in UP, Rajbhar said, “The law and order situation worsened during SP rule. We will ensure that when BSP is in power, it is taken care of. Women will feel safe when Behen Mayawati is voted to power.”
 
 The party made its debut on social media in 2016 and has not looked back ever since. While its social media team is already posting videos and memes to promote the BSP among youngsters online, party members are making sure to leave no stone unturned by continuing door-to-door campaigning at the ground level too.
 
 Satendra Solanki, BSP candidate from Meerut (Cantt) said, “Mayawati has tried her utmost to rope in youngsters to vote for the party. The best way to get in touch with youngsters is by reaching them online and hence a social media team of the party has been working day and night for the online campaign. But getting in touch with voters offline still remains one of our key ways of campaigning.”
 
