NEW DELHI: Unable to maintain greenery on central verges on a majority of arterial roads in the city,   is planning to experiment with   to ensure that plants are watered regularly. The agency will take up five arterial roads where it will implement the pilot project.

 PWD will lay pipelines on the central verges and connect it to Delhi Jal Board’s pipelines carrying treated water from its Sewage Treatment Plants (STP). PWD officials say that they have got in-principle approval from DJB to use its treated water for this purpose.
 
 “We are looking at a permanent solution to the problem. We need to maintain the greenery to bring down dust pollution levels. But due to inadequate and irregular supply of water, we are not able to maintain it. Through drip irrigation, we can ensure that plants are watered at regular intervals,” said  , principal secretary, PWD.
 
 For drip irrigation, PWD will install high quality plastic pipes at the central verges. PWD officials say that these pipes will have perforations through which water will be released in the central verges. With the help of DJB officials, PWD is identifying the pipelines carrying treated water so that the newly laid pipelines can be directly connected to them.
 
 Though PWD plants lakhs of saplings every year as part of its plantation drive to increase the green cover, PWD officials say the biggest problem they face in maintaining greenery on central verges is that they are not able to water the plants at regular intervals. “Also, we can’t monitor on a daily basis whether these people did the job properly or not,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 At present, the three maintenance zones of PWD engage 6 to10 water tankers each to water plants on roadsides and central verges. Though PWD uses treated water from STPs for watering the plants, PWD officials say the operational cost is very high. 
 
 “We pay a nominal amount to DJB for treated water. But it is the operational cost (which includes labour charges and diesel) that is very high. We can’t water plants, especially during summers, on a daily basis through tankers. Using drip irrigation, we can monitor the water supply,” said a PWD official.
 
 While the agency is yet to finalise the roads where the project will be implemented, officials say they are looking at areas which are closer to STPs. Sources said that Satyagraha Marg outside Rajghat till   crossing,   near Apollo hospital, Outer Ring Road from Okhla to Chirag Delhi are some of the stretches being considered for the project.
 
