GREATER NOIDA: A pair of criminals armed with air guns held hostage employees of a government-owned commercial bank in Site 4, Kasna,   on Wednesday, and looted Rs 13.5 lakh from its cash counter. The criminals, wearing helmets, entered the   branch at 3.37pm. They escaped in the car belonging to an assistant manager of the bank. A police team rushed to the spot but by then, the criminals had fled.

 The bank’s assistant manager Rashmi Sharma, cashier Rahul Nagar, two employees Neha and Anil Kumar and one customer, were present in the branch at the time. According to the employees, two criminals entered the premises, wearing helmets to hide their faces. “They were also wearing some vest which they claimed had bombs,” said one employee. The crooks approached the cashier and whipped out a pistol, supposedly an air pistol. “They held the cashier at gun point and asked him to hand over the cash,” said police.
 
 The second crook pointed a gun at the other people present and threatened them. They robbed Rs 13.5 lakh from the cashier and asked Rashmi Sharma to hand over her keys of her Hyundai i10 car. When she said she commuted on public transport, one of the criminals said he knew she travelled in a car which was at the bank’s car park. When threatened further, she handed over the keys. Based on this information, cops later said the criminals must have conducted a reconnaissance before committing the crime.
 
 Locals said there were six people in the gang, two of whom had entered the bank, while two stood guard at the gate and two others coordinated with them from a distance. 
 
 The Kasna police station SHO Sudhir Tyagi said the bank manager was not in office when the crime happened. “We’ve asked bank employees to provide footage of CCTV cameras. They said they don’t have access to the camera’s password. We’re trying to identify and arrest the criminals through manual and electronic surveillance,” he said.
 
 Gautam Budh Nagar SSP Dharmendra Singh said there was no security guard at the bank. “The crime could take place because of the negligence of bank officials. A police team rushed to the spot but the criminals had fled by then. 
 
 Primary investigation revealed the crooks used weapons similar to air guns, and appear to be newbies. We’ve assigned a team to go after them,” he said.
 
 A team of forensic experts also reached the spot and collected fingerprints and digital evidence. A case of armed robbery was registered at Kasna police station.
 
