THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The extent of unauthorized plot sub-division around   has grown to such an extent that the applications for permit pending with town planning department also include application for construction of car shed, big enough to accommodate six cars, in  ! 

 This is one of the applications awaiting approval in conservation zone, which will be decided in a meeting scheduled for Friday. As per the application, the car shed was to be big enough to accommodate six cars. On scrutiny, it was revealed that the applicant had earlier received a permit to construct a 5,000sq m building in the conservation zone. The officials are now perplexed as to how the permit was given for a construction in such a way that it did not match the specifications laid down by heritage commission for constructions in conservation zone.
 
 The town planning wing and art and heritage commission are likely to bring in new set of regulations regarding utilization of land in the conservation zone around Kowdiar Palace. The town planning wing had earlier communicated to district administration regarding massive sub-division of land around Kowdiar Palace violating all norms. While plot sub division needs to be done with approval of layout, no such approval was ever given for plot sub-division in areas around Kowdiar Palace as the land falls under conservation zone. 
 
 Over the last one decade, the land around Kowdiar has been sold and sub-divided as individual plots defying all norms mandated by Kerala municipality building rules as well as directives of heritage commission. In 2014, NATPAC had completed a total station survey around the area and left the town planning department with the task of identifying individual land owners of plots which had been sub-divided. The officials had forwarded the matter to revenue department but even after two years, details regarding individual ownership of land around Kowdiar Palace are unclear.
 
 “One issue in identifying real owners is that the land transactions are mostly effected through one or two agents who own bulk chunks of land and then resale it to other parties. The sale is done by making the buyer believe that all other plots have been sold and only a sole property was left behind,” an official said.
 
 The heritage commission has now decided to avoid any further sub-division of the land. The meeting scheduled on Friday will not only decide upon over 20 applications for building permits but also try to effect new regulations in plot sub-division in conservation zone. 
 
 In 2016, BJP state committee member P Ashok Kumar filed a complaint with the district administration over sale of a land at Kowdiar at a price of Rs 11.25 crore. Although hearing was conducted, no final decision was made on the complaint. 
 
