PANAJI: The problem of faculty shortage at   (GU) has touched new heights with 43% positions being without permanent teachers, as per the annual quality assurance report submitted by GU to the   (NAAC) for 2015-16. The shortage will only get more severe in the coming years as at least 25 faculty members reach retirement age within the next three years.
 
  According to the report submitted to NAAC, 83 of 191 sanctioned posts at GU were vacant and 42 temporary faculty members helped fill in the gaps. The   include that of 24 posts of professors, 39 of associate professors and 20 of assistant professors.
  
  Recently, the state government had relaxed the requirement of knowledge of Konkani to encourage qualified candidates from outside the state to apply for the posts at GU, but this proved helpful in only a handful of cases. Of the 70 positions advertised by GU in 2014-15, suitable candidates were found and recruited for 12 of the positions. The following year, for none of the advertised posts were suitable candidates found.
  
  With the fifth pay commission introducing the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), one is assured of promotions at the varsity where they are serving and this, unlike before, is dissuading academics from institutions outside Goa to apply for posts at GU. Earlier, vacant posts at Goa, unfilled for lack of suitable local candidate, would attract   from outside Goa.
  
  The situation is getting worse by the years as a major portion of the regular faculty currently serving at GU was appointed at the time the university was set up and now many of these are nearing the superannuation age.
  
  Former GU vice-chancellor,  , also blamed the shortage of faculty at GU on “a complicated maze of administrative regulations that need to be complied with for appointments.”
  
  CAS poses another problem. Under the scheme, some university departments are seeing all its six faculty members promoted to the posts of either professor or associate professor, leaving no one second in line once the professors and associate professors retire.
  
  The scheme disallows the junior position of assistant professors left vacant by promotions to be filled, until the person promoted from the position retires and is out of the system. In other words, the position of assistant professor remains blocked until the one promoted from the post retires. These are known as substantive positions.
