It’s that time of the year when devotees make a beeline to   in the   of   for the darisanam of Lord Shiva. The trek begins from the Poondi temple located at the foot hills of Velliangiri and runs along seven rocky hills and thick forests. Velliangiri Hills or South Kailash as it is popularly known among devotees is a popular destination in the outskirts of Coimbatore. On special occasions, people trek the rugged terrain for the darisanam of Lord Shiva at the Velliangiri Aandavar temple situated atop the hill. This time around, the trek seems to have turned treacherous for some as at least four people have lost their lives in the last one week.

 
 Marketing professional Harish D, who recently trekked the Velliangiri Hills for the first time says that the climb is indeed a strenuous one as the hills are steep and rocky. “If you are a first-time climber, ensure you have oodles of stamina. Get hold a bamboo stick before you begin the ascent. This will be a great source of support and companion, especially during the descent as your legs tend to tremble. At any given point of time, do not lose your will power and self-confidence. I started climbing the hill at 11 pm at night and reached by 8.30 in the morning. After the darisanam, I came down the hill by 8 pm the next day. But regular trekkers can complete the entire trek in a matter if 8 hours.”
 
 Environmentalist and trekker Umesh Marudhachalam informs us that one of the primary reasons people find it difficult to climb up the hill is because of their dietary patterns. “We cannot blame the hill. The fitness level of people has undergone a sea change and those who live sedentary lives will have a tough time trekking any hill. As far as the Velliangiri hill is concerned, it’s untouched by human construction. Barring the steps on the first hill, the rest of the path has been carved by trekkers. Hence, they find the hike an arduous task.”
 
 
 
 “The first hill is extremely steep and there is a small stream atop the hill where you can drink water. The Velli Vinayagar temple is located here. The ascent gets a tad easy after the third hill. The fifth hill is called Seetha Vanam, a dense forest as the name suggests and the sixth hill is called  . Here, the soil resembles ash. There is a small stream where devotees can take their bath and head towards the seventh hill where the Velliangiri Aandavar temple is located. It’s a spectacle up there,” says businessman Vijay Krishnan, who has been climbing the hill for the last 8 years. He adds, “We usually have a light dinner at the foothills and begin climbing. You cannot find food uphill so ensure you carry some chapathis, jam or wheat bread. At every hill, take a short break for five to ten minutes. Always go in a group. This will keep you away from wandering off and boost your morale whenever you feel worn out.”
 
 
 
 “For a first-time trekker like me, lack of signboards at the hill was a huge issue. There is no mobile network and you are completely cut off from the rest of the world. Unless, you see someone who knows the route, you are in trouble. So, study the route well before you start trekking. Placing signboards and providing ample medical and water facility at every hill would be a major boost for trekkers,” says Harish. But Umesh Marudhachalam adds that introducing these facilities would turn Velliangiri Hills into another Sabarimala. “People must understand that Velliangiri Hill is a reserve Shola forest and a highly eco-sensitive area. It’s an elephant corridor and the   river originates here. By introducing any facility uphill, we will be disturbing the bio-diversity in the region. The hill is also home to few endemic species that mainly come out of the forests at night looking for food. By allowing the trekkers to climb at night, we are only disturbing their way of life as people are a huge distraction to the animals. Alternatively, we can set up a temporary health clinic at the foothills during the peak season from March to May. “
 
 
 
 Group Captain Jayashankar (Retd) of the National Adventure Foundation, who organizes treks across the country, says that anyone could trek as long as you set the right pace. “Trekking is a slow coordinated activity. In places where trekking is connected to pilgrim activity, there is a rush to keep pace. This can disturb the rhythm of person and his breathing pattern. People who have never walked or trekked through ridges might find the hike painful. It’s important to understand the terrain conditions well before setting out on a trek. Always have a light meal and keep sipping water in small quantities to prevent dehydration. Never be in a rush to get to the destination. Be wary of the presence of wild animals as well, which is why it is always better to trek in groups.” Umesh adds, “Always carry environment-friendly energy boosters, for e.g. fruits, groundnut cakes. Strictly refrain from carrying products that could harm the environment."
 
