NAGPUR: “The growing gap between doctor and patient relationship is mainly due to rise in prices of medical services as, with people shelling out more money, their expectations of getting quality treatment have also increased substantially,” said  , an activist of NGO Janakrosh.

 In most of the cases, the doctors are hardly at fault as prices of medicines and implant products are hiked by pharmaceutical companies. Capping the prices of stents by the government and subsequent quiet withdrawal by the companies in the name of relabelling is the latest example, Karandikar said at a discussion organized by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and PEACE Foundation at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines, on Friday.
 
 Panellists from various sectors also spoke of the ways to help bridge the relationship gap between doctors and patients. Those who participated in the discussion included Dr Ashutosh Apte, past-president of  , Dr Avinash Wase, IMA president, Dr Varun Bhargav of PEACE Foundation, lawyer  , patient’s representative Anil Joshi and journalist Vikas Vaidya.
 
 Kulkarni said that it is but natural for patients to expect results from doctors when they are made to pay hefty charges. However, advancement in medical science is also one of the causes of increased cost of treatment, he added.
 
 Dr Wase said, “Unlike in the past, doctors have now become a service provider and the patients a consumer. This is the main reason for the conflict. To address problems faced by doctors, IMA has formed support groups in every area which are working well. In cases of medical negligence, our grievances cell is working to hear patients’ side and support them accordingly.”
 
 Joshi said, “It’s important to have good communication with a doctor. Studies have proved that patients who can establish good communication with doctors have better chances of early cure.”
 
 Dr Apte said, “Doctor and patient may not have the same level of intellect. In OPDs, doctors use technical terms which creates confusion in patient’s mind. If doctors are short of time to explain, they should make their staff counsel patients and clear confusion.”
 
 
