(By - Pranay Kotasthane & Pavan Srinath)
 
 With elections due next year, it was taken for granted that the   government's last budget would come with a generous dose of populism. Sure enough, this budget has done it.
 The subsidy bill is projected to be Rs24,000 crore, up 30% from last year. The subsidy increase has been across the full spectrum of government activities.
 
 Subsidies extended to ailing ESCOMs, which account for almost half the subsidy bill, went up by 22%. The political hot potato of making even rich Bengalureans pay more for the electricity they consume was left untouched.
 
 Food subsidy saw a massive jump of 75%. This was chiefly due to the expansion of the scope of the Anna Bhagya Scheme. A related populist move was the announcement of one Namma Canteen for each of the 198 wards in Bengaluru. This intervention will adversely impact Bengaluru's vibrant darshinis and gaadis that already cater to a variety of price points.
 
 The streak of populism entered the domain of higher education as well. Free laptops have been announced for 1.5 lakh colle ge students.Here, Karnataka has finally joined Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and other states in extending freebies at the expense of taxpayers.
 
 In spite of all these populist impulses, the budget did not abandon all sense.For one, the allocation on long-term investment grew by an admirable 29%, including healthy increases on irrigation, flood control and water supply infrastructure.
 
 The budget speech included quite a few promising announcements. A growing state like Karna taka with an increas ingly complex econ omy needs smaller administrative units to take care of local needs. A total of 49 new taluks will be carved out of the existing 177 taluks. The state has a strong history of b re a k i n g u n w i e l dy d i s tricts like the old Bangalore rural into coherent par ts, but these usually did not involve changing taluks. The new move can be transformative.
 
 Akshara Foundation, Shikshana, Pratham and other foundations having a history of working with t h e g ove r n m e n t t o i m p r ove e d u c a t i o n a l o u t comes. In an unusual m ove, t h e C M f o u n d i t worthwhile to name them as par tners. One can be cautiously hopeful of more good ideas permeating into the broken government schooling system.
 
 T he budg et seems to mention a better focus on actual learning outcomes, which is big if implemented. That apart, English will now be a subject from class 1 in government schools in the state­ a step that could potentially bring far greater equity for Kannadiga students working in a 21st century Karnataka.
 
 The writers are fellows at the Takshashila Institution
 
 Reporting by Naheed Ataullah, Sujith John, Manu Aiyappa, Rakesh Prakash, Sandeep Moudgal, Rohith B R, Sunitha Rao, Aparajita Ray, Deepika Burli, Sreemoyee Chatterjee, Arun Dev, Avik Das. Design & graphics: M R Rajashekar
 
