Nagpur: If any scrapped notes are seized during an action by taxmen, chartered accountants and lawyers are hoping that a 21-year-old decision by the income tax appellate tribunal (ITAT) will come to their clients’ rescue. The case relates to 1978 when Morarji Desai’s Janata Party government had banned Rs5,000 notes. The ITAT had ruled that demonetized currency cannot be considered as money and, hence, cannot be taxed. The ruling relating to an action in 1978 was issued in 1995.  However, in the current scenario it will still attract penalty for holding banned cash as it has been made a criminal offence The matter may have to be reported to police in any case. “Yet taxation can be disputed on these grounds,” said experts.  The income tax department in a survey against the Andhra Pradesh Yarns Combines Private Limited had found banned notes worth Rs1.35 lakh. A tax-cum penalty to the tune of Rs95,000 was levied by it. The company appealed against the ruling and the ITAT gave its ruling in 1995. The tribunal said the concerned section of the income tax law came into play only when some valuable article was found. The value has to calculated at the time when it was found. In this case the notes were no longer legal tender and were nothing but a piece of paper. “The ITAT decision has not been overruled yet and makes a strong case law to defend any action by the income tax department if it seizes any old notes from any assessed,” said Manoj Moriani, secretary of Income Tax Bar Association, Nagpur. The ordinance calls for levying a penalty on possession of more than 10 scrapped notes. It is 25 in case of numismatic researchers. However, in a recent interactive session between income tax officers and local businessmen, it was derived that tax may be levied over and above the penalty too.  The tax will be imposed if the source of funds are not explainable. CA Nistesh Agrawal said the tax may be saved on the basis of this ruling but not the penalty for holding banned notes.  BC Bhartia, a chartered accountant and trade leader, said, “The case law can come handy as the old notes cannot be considered as cash any more. There is also a loophole in the system. It often happens that the cash seized is much more than the liability and has to be returned. In case the assessed has to be returned the seized amount this will be in valid currency,” said Bhartia. 