THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The public works department is still infested with a few people who will work only if they receive a bribe, said chief minister   here on Saturday .

 Inaugurating the Engineers' Congress, the chief minister said that the present situation was that the PWD engineers could work without pledging their self-respect since no one had to bribe for transfers, postings, and promotions. Commending the achievements of PWD minister G   in putting the department in order in the last 16 months through his interventions, the chief minister said that completion of   and Pandalam bridge that had been completed before the scheduled dates were examples of the efficiency of the engineers.
 
 At the same time, he said, it should be factually analyzed that why the projects that were being undertaken using funds from external agencies like the Nabard were not being able to complete on time.
 
 He urged the engineers to make changes in their working style to suit to the motto of the department which is `puthiya kalam puthiya nirmanam'.This will help better the image of the department, he said. The chief minister asked the engineers to take special care in the implementation of coastal and hill highway projects.
 
 PWD minister G Sudhakaran, who also spoke on the occasion, said that the holy book of the engineers should be the PWD manual. He said that while the period of last government was to consider some of the places with more importance, it was not the case now and all the 140 constituencies were considered equally on the basis of the requirements. Sudhakaran said that the idea of a social audit that was implemented in   was being expanded to all the districts as it had turned out to be successful. He said that while the government and the ministers could only draft the policies, it was the engineers who have to implement it.
 
 Sudhakaran said that unlike the previous government, the department would not undertake the work without funds earmarked in the budget. He said that the Engineers' Congress was first such initiative in the country where all the engineers of the department are brought together at a single venue.
 
