KOLKATA: An alleged Rs 29 crore dispute between broadcaster   and  , which continues to deprive more than 5 lakh cable subscribers in Kolkata of their favourite  , remained unresolved on Monday. 

 While  , which has disputed Star’s claim that it owes the amount to the broadcaster, was grappling to strike out a compromise, the broadcaster has refused to withdraw its demand. The tussle has left subscribers shortchanged. With no option other than shifting to a DTH platform, which entails an additional expenditure, they are set to miss several sporting events lined up on the Star Sports channels this week.
 
 Other than missing Team India tame the Englishmen in the ongoing ODI series, Manthan subscribers will also have to skip watching the T-20s between the two sides that will follow. An exciting Pakistan-Australia series is already underway Down Under other than the Premier Badminton League and Australian domestic cricket. These are being telecast live on Star Sports channels. Early next month, India will take on Bangladesh in a historic one-off Test match at Hyderabad. Later in the month, India will cross swords with Australia in a three-match Test series. In a bid to pacify its subscribers, Manthan has put the DD National channel – that is airing the India-England matches live — in the Star Sports channel slots.
 
 Manthan claimed that it was close to breaking the deadlock with Star following ‘fruitful and positive talks’ on Monday. “It seems we will soon get the channels back. The channels, in fact, could return within 48 hours,” said Manthan director Sudip Ghosh.
 
 “I feel cheated by this blackout that is depriving me of the Star broadcast. Just having DD channels on the same slots can’t be compensation enough. The DD commentary is horrible and so is their analyses. I missed Star’s post-match programme on Sunday. It is a treat to watch,” said Rajarshi De, a Manthan subscriber in Chetla. The subscribers were also worried over missing the upcoming sports events, particularly the home series against Australia. “It will wind up the home season and should be exciting. Why should we miss it despite paying for all the channels?” asked Anirban Ray, another subscriber.
 
 Other than the superior quality telecast and the insightful analyses, sports-lovers are also missing the highlights package at the end of the day. Star Sports channels beam an hour-long highlights show on every important match day. “Thousands like me rarely get to watch the cricket matches throughout the day. We look forward to the highlights show but DD has none,” said De. Other than sports, the yanking of the entertainment channels, too, has left subscribers feeling cheated. Star World, Star Plus and Star Jalsha are the most watched entertainment channels on the Star platform. 
 
 Cable industry insiders said MSOs often took advantage of the fact that subscribers had no alternative. “The only option for them is to go for a DTH service like   or Dish TV, which is expensive. Most MSO subscribers prefer to rely on cable operators. But they are often made to suffer when MSOs and broadcasters have a dispute,” said a cable industry veteran.
 
 
