SHIMLA: Some NGOs from outside   are collecting funds for “cancer awareness” through   in the state without keeping government in the loop. Suspecting foul-play, a social activist has written chief minister Virbhadra Singh and demanded a high-level probe to look into the matter.

 In a letter to the CM, Umang foundation chairman   has demanded a high-level inquiry against the erring schools. He has also appealed to the chief minister to lodge FIRs against the NGOs. He alleged this fraud was being done in connivance with the school administration. He said many government and private schools were using innocent children for ulterior motives. At least four NGOs from other states are indulging in this unholy practice, he said.
 
 In his letter, the activist wrote that three Class 11 students of local Government Senior Secondary School, Lalpani, had come to his house seeking donations for cancer patients on behalf of an NGO from Lucknow. He said when the students were asked about person who sent them, they named their English teacher.
 
 “They also revealed that the NGO has assured them of prizes if they collect a handsome amount. They also said that hundreds of students of that school are involved in collecting funds for the NGO by their teachers,” Srivastava said.
 
 When Srivastava contacted the NGO “to seek financial assistance” for a little girl of three years suffering from blood cancer and admitted in Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, the official refused help. He said that the NGO under scanner has two offices in Lucknow, one national office in Delhi apart from offices in Bangalore, Ahmdabad, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and others. He said the NGO official said that they collect funds for creating awareness about cancer in the society and usually do not give assistance to individual patients. 
 
 “The pamphlet in the hands of school students shows the list of awards and incentives to be given to the students who succeed to collect more money. The donors are not provided with the receipts,” he added. 
 
 Srivastava said as per their inquiry four NGOs are collecting money through school students in the different districts of the state. When contacted, Himachal Pradesh Higher Education Department, director,   said that matter was brought to his notice and he is looking into it. He said no permission has been granted to the schools to collect funds for the NGOs.
 
