MUMBAI: Cellphone thefts, the most commonly reported crime on the suburban railways, have steadily decreased in the first four months of 2017 as compared to the previous two years. 

 Four hundred phone thefts were recorded between January to April 2017, which is 34% lesser than last year. Nearly 58% of the complainants got their stolen phones back and 273 mobile thieves were arrested this year. 
 
 Electronic surveillance and plainclothes teams in mufti such as the all-women Nirbhaya squad have helped the cops to nab offenders. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has also been chipping in. “We have compiled a booklet containing profiles of habitual criminals operating in Maharashtra and Gujarat. The booklet contains the name, age, alias, address and   committed by each individual. It can be referred to easily by personnel posted on trains and station areas,” said Anup Shukla, senior divisional security commissioner of the RPF (WR). Western Railway (WR) is also in the process of increasing the number of cameras, particularly in non-suburban sections. 
 
 “Annually, 846 cellphone thefts were reported in 2015 and 849 last year. Of these, 52% complainants got their stolen phones back in 2015 and 57% in 2016. I wanted to know how many commuters actually get their stolen cellphones back,” said activist Nitin Gaikwad, who obtained the data under the Right to Information Act. 
 
 To make the process of penalizing thieves more stringent, the GRP has been filing chargesheets faster. “This prevents the accused from getting bail. Past records of the accused are also put up before court so as to argue for a longer sentence,” said a GRP officer. “We have also been studying the time and location of cellphone thefts and posting personnel accordingly,” he added. 
 
 Both the railway security agencies have been instructed to step up visibility in station areas as it acts as a deterrent for criminals. In the past, the GRP has often been criticized for checking content in passengers’ cellphones or checking their bags and demanding money for release. “Personnel have been instructed to not check baggage randomly, unless absolutely necessary. If baggage has to be checked, it needs to be done under CCTVs and in the presence of an officer of sub-inspector rank or above,” said a top GRP official.
 
