Recently, residents of a large apartment complex in   were shocked when a picture of a man who had hung himself in his home in the same complex was circulated on a residents’ messaging group. While some people pointed out that it was wrong to circulate such a picture, considering that children have access to their parents’ phones, many had downloaded the gory picture (the man had been dead for three days) and were only interested in finding out about the scandal that could have led the man to take his life. Unfortunately, these are not stray incidents; pictures of the decomposed bodies of stuntmen   and  , who drowned in the TG Halli reservoir after a film stunt went wrong, were circulated almost immediately after their bodies were fished out. And even though it’s been nearly a year, images of 24-year-old Harish Nanjappa, pleading with passersby for help for 20 minutes, as he lay on the road with his body split in two, are still fresh in people’s mind.

 We are all guilty of having seen such pictures or videos, either out of sheer curiosity or some need to feed off a scandal. But what is alarming is that off late, taking a video/picture on a phone, instead of lending a helping hand, has become the norm. Consulting psychiatrist   blames this on the overall reduction in sensitivity in people.
 
 “Over the last 15 years or so, people have become desensitized. Rather than looking at events from a humanistic viewpoint, they are more concerned with the dramatic and sensational aspects. This makes our lives less real and more filmi,” he says, adding that this is not restricted to just unfortunate events. Vikram says that even when parents attend a graduation ceremony, they are watching the event through a camera lens, even though there are professional photographers and videographers around. “When you are not in the moment, the feeling and joy is lost. Once you capture the event, you won’t even see the video/pictures again, but end up circulating it on social media. This creates sensationalism.”
 
  
  
 
 As technology creeps into all aspects of our lives, we also seem to have lost respect for each other’s privacy and feelings. Vikram says that it is important to educate people that the first thing that one should do in the time of need is help the other person and not film it — which has become our instinct now. He adds that the problem with the present-day situation is that an accident or death appears amusing to another person, which is why we have nearly lost the ability to empathize. “We are humans first and are dealing with real-life situations — people are not acting out parts in a movie in front of us,” he stresses.
 
 To fix this, Vikram suggests, one must start at childhood. “Kids, these days, spend a lot of time playing video games, many of which are violent, in which, despite being hit/shot at, their character keeps coming back to life. This affects their ability to empathize. If they are, instead, encouraged to play games outdoors with other children, they will learn to empathize, when, for e.g., a friend gets hurt while playing and people rush to take him/her to a doctor. That is how sensitivity is nurtured,” he says.
 
 
 
 Consulting psychiatrist Vikram Prabhu feels that the lack of civic sense in people is an issue that needs to be tackled. “It is OK to film an accident to use for legal purposes, but not for sensationalism. Earlier, there used to be columns about etiquette in newspapers, which you don’t see anymore. This needs to be inculcated in children at the school and college level. That is when we will see a difference.” 
 
 
 
 
 
