BHUBANESWAR: The state government is planning to introduce certain key changes in counselling for engineering admission, including charging a portion of the admission fee, to ensure no   seat goes vacant in government-run colleges. 

 Due to procedural flaws, around 20% seats remained vacant in government institutions in the past four years.
 
 Many meritorious students who qualify for multiple entrance tests (such for IITs/NITs or medical colleges), take part in the state BTech counselling on the basis of their JEE Main ranks, knowing fully well they would not be taking admission in the state-run engineering colleges. By the time they back out, the counselling process gets over. 
 
 As a result, seats blocked by them remain vacant in government institutions. The seven government-run institutions have around 3,800 BTech seats. 
 
 "As per the proposal, the Odisha joint entrance examination ( ) committee will collect Rs 30,000 towards part-admission fee during the counselling itself. This will eliminate non-serious candidates, ultimately bringing down the vacancies. Hopefully those who qulify for IIT/NIT won't be taking part in the counselling process then," said an officer of the skill development and technical education department.
 
 After provisional allotment of seats, students have to deposit this sum with the OJEE. They can deposit the rest during admission in the respective colleges.
 
 To make the counselling process smoother, the OJEE has proposed to do away with verification of students' documents before allotment of seats. "Students don't have to visit any OJEE office (nodal centres) till provisional allotment of seats. In the ongoing practice, they have to go to the nodal centres for verification of their documents before provisional allotment of seats and deposit Rs 5500 towards counselling and registration. Those students who doesn't get a seat need not undergo the gruelling process," the officer added.
 
 A final decision on the proposals is likely to be taken on Tuesday when development commissioner R Balakrishnan would be present. OJEE chairman Tushar Nath, when contacted, said the OJEE has proposed certain changes to reduce the number of vacancies, particularly in government-run colleges. 
 
 "A high-level government committee will take a final decision on the matter soon," he said.
 
 Binod Dash, secretary,  , welcomed the proposal to collect part payment to rule out non-serious candidates. "However, Rs 30,000 is too high. This may discourage poor students because they generally take education loan after their admission is confirmed," Dash said.
 
 The practice of taking part payment of Rs 16,000 at the time of counselling was there till 2011. 
 
 However, the government discontinued it on the logic the same may discourage students from coming for counselling, particularly in private colleges. 
 
 Such an apprehension doesn't exist anymore because now private colleges will be able to fill up their vacancies on their own after two rounds of OJEE counselling.
 
