Mumbai:   looks inevitable among   (PSBs) with few banks requiring capital more than or close to their current market capitalisation. These weak banks will find it tough to raise equity from capital markets and also from the government as further infusion would reduce the share of free-float capital.

 Incidentally,   the saviour of public sector banks in the past, has seen its stakes decline in several PSU banks. According to a report by  , these factors make it imperative for weak public sector banks to diversify their shareholding base.
 
 The report estimated the capital requirement for PSBs at around 10% of current market capitalisation at an aggregate level for public banks. The average capital requirement does not look high because of two large well-capitalised lenders —   and  . When calculated individually for weak banks, the capital requirement is much higher.
 
 For most banks, the capital requirement is in the 20-40% range. “UCO,  ,   and   are worst placed with capital requirement of almost 30-90% of current market capitalisation,” the report said. In 13 of the 21 PSU banks in the report, the government shareholding has risen. In the rest of the banks the government shareholding has remained changed. LIC’s shareholding has however declined in most banks.
 
 United Bank (85%), Bank of Maharashtra (82%), Central Bank (81%), and Punjab Sind Bank (80%) had high government stakes at end FY2017. The government stake in Indian bank is also high at 82% but the bank has a high tier-1 ratio and does not need capital of any significance.
 
 “As per our estimates, these banks are likely to struggle at raising capital to comply with Basel-3 capital adequacy even if government stake is raised to 90% at the current trading,” Kotak said in its report.
 
 Incidentally, the minister of state for finance Arjun Ram Meghwal had earlier indicated that the government is revisiting the Narasimham Committee recommendation on consolidation of PSBs. However, the report had cautioned against merging weak banks with strong banks.
 
 
