NEW DELHI: Though the Delhi government has released Rs 119 crore to the east corporation to solve the salary problem, sanitation workers have not called off their   claiming it’s a temporary measure. Their contention is: the civic body doesn’t have funds to pay salaries in the coming months.

 The unions have asked the corporation and the government to come forward with a permanent solution. Sanjay Gehlot, president of  , said the strike would continue till both the corporation and government promised them there would not be any delay in paying salaries in future. “What the government has released is not enough to pay salaries. They don’t have a plan for the coming months. We can’t go on a strike every month. So our protest will continue,” added Gehlot.
 
 East corporation commissioner   and mayor Satya Sharma had a meeting with the safai karamcharis on Monday evening, but they failed to reach any conclusion. While, Singh claimed the associations promised to resume work from Monday night, the latter refused to call of their strike. “During the meeting, a few associations promised to call off the strike and resume work,” he said. In the meeting with deputy CM Manish Sisodia, the EDMC commissioner reportedly informed the chief secretary that the strike had been called off.
 
 “As far as the government is concerned, it has been informed by the bureaucrats that the strike has been called off. In fact, even the LG has been informed of the same. During the meeting, Sisodia has asked the mayor to submit a list of employees in EDMC and how much salary they are paid. He also asked for an explanation as to how the corporation has no money even though the Delhi government has given it double the amount in 2015-16 and in the current financial year, compared to 2012-13,” said a senior official.
 
 Veer Pal Parcha, president of Delhi Pradesh Majdoor Sangh, said, “Every month, we have to beg for our salary. Unless a permanent solution is not promised, the strike will continue.”
 
 Mayor Sharma claimed implementation of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission’s (DFC) report is the only solution. “We will get Rs 4,928 crore if the commission’s report is implemented. Otherwise, we don’t have funds to clear salaries for January and February.” 
 
 
