DEHRADUN: The state   has proposed that city’s  ,  , be identified as a ‘zero zone’ which would mean that heavy vehicles would be barred from the area.
 
  Madan Kaushik told TOI, “We are in the process of drafting a proposal to mark Paltan Bazaar as zero zone which would mean that no heavy vehicles will be allowed there. We will make provisions to allow a limited number of two-wheelers and e-rickshaws for ease of movement for the public.”
  
  The state urban development minister has also asked civic bodies to remove all encroachments in the city in a phased manner. In the first phase, encroachments from ISBT to Clock Tower will be removed followed by areas like Chakrata Road, Mussoorie diversion, Prince Chowk and other parts of the city.
  
  “I have asked the authorities to remove all encroachments between ISBT and Clock Tower immediately and in the next few days this exercise will be continued in other parts of Dehradun as well. The aim is to make the roads clutter free for improved traffic movement,” said Kaushik.
  
  N D Nautiyal, a nagar nigam official told TOI, “The civic bodies are working together and have removed over 100 encroachments on ISBT-Clock Tower route. At present, we have removed temporary encroachments and the Public Works Department (PWD) is in the process of identifying illegal constructions on this stretch.”
  
  The city residents have hailed the drive against encroachments and said that it shouldn’t be discontinued. Anup Uniyal, a resident of Majra, said, “The nagar nigam has conducted such drives in the past but as soon as they discontinue it, the encroachments reappear. It is good that the new government is taking special interest in making the city clutter free.”
  
  Meanwhile, in a bid to increase efficiency of 43 nagar palikas in the state, the urban development department will hold a workshop on Thursday. “We have increased the budget of all nagar palikas so they can hire more workers. To understand how they are planning on spending the increased funding, we will hold a meeting on May 11. The discussion will focus on improving sanitation in their areas,” Kaushik said.
