MUMBAI: Four hours after a 30-year-old man allegedly stabbed his   to death inside an auto rickshaw near Goregaon railway station as he suspected her character, police arrested him from Kalyan while trying to flee the city. 

 The Goregaon police initially assumed that Geeta Dubey (28) was killed by a former lover, but the needle of suspicion pointed to her  , Prasad Rawat, when he did not turn up at the police station even after being informed of her brutual murder. Police later learnt that Rawat had assaulted Dubey on two occasions last week.
 
 On Monday night, Rawat, who is employed with a hotel canteen in Mahalaxmi, asked Dubey to meet him ‘one final time’ near Goregaon station, said police. Upset with her husband’s infidelity accusation, Dubey had moved into her mother’s home in Goregaon (E) a few months ago. “After getting a call from Rawat, she left home at 9.15pm,” said a police officer. “She told her mother that he asked her to meet outside   for the final time.”
 
 Dubey took an   to reach the station. The autorickshaw driver told the police, “When I stopped at the auto stand near the station, a man entered my vehicle, stabbed the woman thrice in the neck and hand and fled.” 
 
 She died before being admitted in hospital. After identifying the body, police informed Rawat about his wife’s death and learnt that she was living with her mother since the last few months.
 
 Dubey’s mother told police that her daughter was having a troubled marriage. “My daughter had a love marriage with Rawat four years ago and they have two children, but he always suspected her character and picked fights with her. Upset with his behavior, my daughter moved in with me,” Dubey’s mother said in her police complaint. “On February 18 and 19, Prasad came to my house and even assaulted my daughter in front of me.” 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone XI) Vikram Deshmane said that they launched a manhunt for Rawat based on suspicion and caught him in Kalyan trying to flee the city around 2am. “Preliminary investigations revealed that Rawat had a marital dispute which triggered him to take the extreme step. He has been booked under the Indian Penal Code Section 302 for murder,” Deshmane added. 
 
 Rawat will be kept in police custody till February 27. 
 
