BENGALURU:   can look forward to a greener city with more parks, playgrounds and recreational places.

 The state government has decided to develop big parks on the lines of   and   in all cities, by reserving adequate space on the city’s outskirts. It will also soon incorporate a new rule to reserve 25% of the area for  , open spaces and civic amenities in residential layouts to be developed by urban development authorities and private developers.
 
 “Developers of layouts will have to reserve 15% for parks, 5% for civic amenities and 5% for a land bank to take up infrastructure projects in future, to get approval from the authorities,” urban development secretary V Ponnuraj said.
 
 Taking a cue from the recently circulated bylaws by the Union ministry of urban development, the state government issued a draft notification on the common zoning regulation (ZR) of land under Section 13(e) of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (KTCP) to pave the way for more lung and open spaces in upcoming layouts, seeking suggestions and objections. The common zoning regulations will apply to both residential and non-residential development under all urban local bodies and urban development authorities. “The new rules will be notified in a month or two,” Ponnuraj said.
 
 In the existing regulations, 10% of land from a layout was kept for parks and 5% for civic amenities. There is no provision to have a land bank or bigger parks under the existing guidelines, he added. Last year, the state government had faced widespread flak when it brought in an amendment Bill to reduce the share of open space from 15% to 10%, and was forced to withdraw the Bill after it was returned by the governor, seeking some clarifications.
 
 Town planning department officials claimed the new rule would help double the size of open spaces in the city in the next 10 years. “The present proportion of open spaces in most of the cities in the state is not more than 10% of the total city area. This decision will help increase the proportion by 4% to 6%,” they said.
 
 Under the proposed rule, the open space left in a layout will be owned by society members or the developer, and where no new construction will be permitted. “The open spaces can be converted into green spaces by community gardening or plantations, and the ecosystem thus developed can help add to the diversity of the city’s environment. Civic amenities should be used only as playgrounds or developed into community centres,” the officials explained.
 
