NAGPUR: City police top brass is learnt to have undertaken a decision of not rushing into the act of arresting constables Ajay Madavi and Bridgette James in the abetment of suicide case slapped on them after 30-year-old gym trainer James Joseph hanged himself at his rented room at   on April 25 last month. The decision has been undertaken despite the fact the mobile handset of the deceased which had important evidence in it is likely to be in the possession of the accused. 

 While city police chief K Venkatesh has argued that there is no firm decision of not making arrest in the case, the family members claimed that the cops are deliberately delaying the process so as to help the accused go for anticipatory bail. Incidentally, TOI has already pointed out in it’s April 30 edition that Ajay’s father Yeshwant is posted as head constable at Jaripatka police station where the offence was registered against Madavi, Bridgette and also her mother Jyoti. 
 
 Apart from abetment to commit suicide, the charges of destruction of evidence too was added in the FIR against the three accused holding them responsible for displacing the mobile phone of the deceased. However, the decision of not arresting Ajay, Bridgette and her mother Jyoti for recovering the mobile phone has left the deceased’s family baffled. A woman from the neighbourhood of James claimed that she has volunteered to furnish a statement before police of having spotted Jyoti and her son Lucky leaving the place with the mobile phone of James from his room in the melee after the suicide had come to fore. James’s mother Elizabeth too has claimed that her son’s mobile phone, which had crucial evidence against Bridgette, was kept beside the music system on the bed but it had later gone missing. “Bridgette is spreading a distorted fact that my son was harassing her. The mobile phone had the real truth. Bridgette’s mother too had levelled the same allegations against James. It was then my son had tried to convince Jyoti to listen to the recorded conversations but she had ran out of the house denying the offer to hear the truth. I believe the culprits have now destroyed the phone,” she said. 
 
 C Venkatesh said zonal DCP Abhinash Kumar was told to verify the facts before reaching at an conclusion in the case. “DCP is looking into the various aspects. We don’t want to jump into any conclusion. We will speak to the deceased’s family too,” he said. 
 
 Sources from police had said Bridgette and Ajay were heard at length by a senior officer. It was after hearing them that the officer had instructed Jaripatka police to refrain from arresting Bridgette and Ajay despite the fact they had twice humiliated James at his workplace. The   footage, now handed over to police by the gym management, also had clearly shows the presence of Khaki-clad police personnel at the reception and elsewhere in the premises with a helmet in his hand. James was thrashed with the helmet, it’s learnt, in full view of the gym patrons who were left stunned by the action.
 
 
