KOLKATA: The state government has decided to trifurcate South 24 Parganas into three police districts, with a single administrative head at the helm. There will be one district magistrate, but the law and order of the new   of  , Baruipur and   will be looked after by three different SPs.

 “With 38 police stations, each with an average area of more than 155sqkm, it was becoming difficult for one SP to control the entire district. The recent incidents in Bhangar and Baruipur are clear indications of that. The district ranges from the Sunderbans up to the edge of the city. Naturally, the law and order situation and the nature of crime is extremely varied,” a senior home department official said. 
 
 According to the home department, Diamond Harbour will be the largest among the three police districts, with 19 police stations. Baruipur police district will have 10 stations and South Industrial, with headquarters at Alipore, will have nine. 
 
 The Sunderbans with 72km of porous border has Bangladeshi infiltration and pirates as the major concern, and the crime mechanism in industrial towns like Metiabruz, Budge Budge, Mahestala and Rabindra Nangar is complex. On the other hand, Baruipur – projected as the metro centre and district headquarters in Vision 2025 — has an urban form of crime, mostly land and property-related exigencies. “To rationalize the maintenance of law and order and determine a synchronized crime pattern, three separate platforms were necessary,” the officer added.
 
 According to home department officials, the expansion of the city, mostly in the south up to Baruipur, is a major concern for the state administration. “When the average area per station of Kolkata Police is approximately 2km, Baruipur and South Industrial have an average area of around 175sqkm each. The size of police stations will also have to be narrowed down for better administration,” he added. 
 
 “Apart from hiring the support staff, the state will have to appoint two SPs and a DIG for these three police districts. Though the final estimate is yet to be assessed, the state will initially have to take the additional burden of another Rs 39.86 lakh per police district per annum,” the official said.
 
 In 2011, just after   came to power, she carved out 10 police stations — Behala, Thakupukur, Kasba, Purba Jadavpur, Jadavpur, Tiljala, Regent Park, Nadial and Metiabruz — from the district and put them under jurisdiction of Kolkata Police.
 
 
