NAGPUR: The officials of District women and   department sounded deep anguish against their own ministry for ignoring the requirements at the ground level especially turning blind eye to the unfilled posts of the homes which are plagued with various ills. Also during the post-incident analysis of the escape episode of 14 inmates from   home for boys, the officials claimed that they had been clamouring for police picket in civil dress since long but response has been negative from the khaki department. 

 It was learnt that the home for boys do not have a regular posting of a superintendent since January 1 last year. The charge of the superintendent has been assigned to someone already holding a different post as a makeshift arrangement. In similar fashion, the post of probation officer has remained vacant since May 1, 2015. Though there is councillor and teacher present, the home do not have a full-time caretaker when there are sanctioned strength of four. 
 
 An official said that only one   is present at a time when the number should have been two. “temporary caretaker is posted at night and another at day. The entire home is left under the supervision of one caretaker who has to double up as a security personnel too. Often the minors have fled after thrashing or throwing chilli powder on the supervisor. Some of the inmates, though they are minor, have often threatened the caretakers of dire consequences,” he said. 
 
 The officials, feeling neglected due to the apathy of their own department, are now trying to look up to the police for rendering help. “We have often written letters to the police top brass and also personally taken up with them regarding posting of the police personnel at boys home in civil dress. There had been one constable deputed at the home but he too was withdrawn when 14 inmates escaped during winter assembly last year after we had tried to fix responsibility. The police department had refused to acknowledge that someone was deputed at the first place,” said the official. 
 
 The situation at the government children home for girls at Katol road too has remained as problematic as the boys’ home with vacancies crippling the routine work. There had been also steady crisis of girls escaping from the home which included the latest incident of last month where five of the inmates had sneaked away but later rescued by police. The posts of superintendent at the girls home, along with that of probation officer and special teacher too have remained vacant. Out of 13 posts, five are vacant at the girls home. 
 
 Joint CP, law and order, Shivaji Bodkhe said the district women and child development department should refer their problems, including that of the security, to the juvenile justice board and not police department. “Police cannot be posted with or without arms at boys or girls hostel which tantamount to creating pressure of fear on them which is barred in the law,” he said. 
 
 
