PUNE: The statue politics is simmering in Maharashtra ahead of the vital municipal corporation and zilla parishad elections and the pulling down of Ram Ganesh Gadkari’s bust has given a fresh tinge to caste politics.

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently performed “jal pujan” in the Arabian Sea for the Rs 3,600-crore memorial dedicated to the 17th century Maratha warrior king   and left other parties, including its alliance partner Shiv Sena, squirming. The BJP is eyeing big Maratha vote chunk in the local polls.
 
 The Maratha community, which is with  , is all set to show its political might with the outfit registering itself as a political party following a massive show through silent marches. After removing Gadkari’s statue, the brigade and other Maratha organisations would try to galvanize the community before the elections in the name of Shivaji Maharaj and Sambhaji Maharaj.
 
 Vinayak Mete, the Shiv Sangram leader with the BJP, said those who had   Gadkari’s statue had brought bad reputation to the state. Shiv Sena MLC Neelam Gorhe said, “The chief minister holds the charge of the home ministry and he should take immediate action. There is a conspiracy to divide the state in the name of caste.”
 
 Guardian minister Girish Bapat has ordered a probe, while the BJP leader in the Pune Municipal Corporation, Ganesh Bidkar, said, “Some people are trying to divide the city on the line of caste to reap political benefits in elections.”
 
 One of the Maratha community leaders, Balasaheb Sarate, said, “The Maratha community is simmering with anger. If we don’t try to understand and address it, this anger will rise. The community is agitated with the government for its approach towards reservation. We don’t support the pulling down of the statue, but try to understand why youths are on the edge.”
 
 Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Shivaji Maharaj and the President nominated MP, said, “I condemn the act. No one should take law in their hands. But the writing of Gadkari is seriously controversial and should be countered through legal means.”
 
 The Sambhaji Brigade, which has announced to contest all zilla parishad polls, has started convening district-level meetings to decide the role of the community in local polls. The community leaders who recently met in Pune and Aurangabad were divided on taking an open political stand. A chunk of senior leaders led by Pravin Gaikwad has joined Peasants and Workers Party, while other Maratha leaders are against floating a front or aligning with any party.
 
 “If the Maratha community takes an open political stand, it will create rift within the community because Marathas have different political ideologies and are supporters of different parties. We have strongly argued that the community must not get into politics,” said one of the prominent Maratha leaders, who played a major role in organizing silent marches.
 
 Requesting anonymity, he said, “Trying to reap political benefit of silent marches will be like depriving the community. We should not lose focus and just concentrate on getting our demands fulfilled.”
 
 The Sambhaji Brigade — an outfit of Maratha Seva Sangh and the mother organization of various Maratha groups — has already registered as a political party. Its president Manoj Akhare has announced that the party would contest local polls in the state and fight for Bahujan Samaj. Akhare is confident that the community will unitedly vote for the new party and rally behind the community’s political experiment.
 
 “I am not sure of the outcome of the Maratha community’s political foray. No doubt, local elections are the most important phase of state politics because their results will create a pitch for future political calculations, which will have an impact on the next Assembly elections. The political clout on local bodies plays a vital role in general elections. But the Maratha community is divided and their vote share will split,” observed senior scribe and political commentator Anant Dixit.
 
 He added, “There are groups in the Maratha community, which are dominant in all walks of life, including politics. There are groups that are poor and struggling for survival. There are also groups, which are proud of their caste identity. So, Marathas are not a solid and unanimous vote bank.”
 
 The Maratha organisations are mobilizing the community members and pursuing them to vote against the BJP and Sena for allegedly not taking “concrete” steps for the community’s reservation demand. Political pundits stressed that the Devendra Fadnavis government would have to put in extra effort to balance the demands made by Marathas and other communities. The BJP received 24 per cent of Maratha votes in the 2014 Assembly elections and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has already fired a salvo against the “established” Maratha leaders in the Congress and NCP, blaming them for not solving the problems of the community. Fadnavis has also praised the Marathas for the manner in which silent marches were organized.
 
 Sena with its highest Maratha votes (29%) in the 2014 Assembly polls is trying to shift the blame on the BJP, sending a message that the BJP leadership is not serious about their reservation demand. The NCP and Congress leaders are trying to play safe by joining the Maratha community’s demand and showing the BJP and Sena in poor light.
 
