CHANDIGARH: In a flip-flop, Punjab chief minister   on Tuesday first cancelled his much-touted decision to remove red beacons from the official vehicles of Cabinet ministers but hours later revoked it following criticism on social media.

 Earlier in the day, an office order from Punjab transport department issued to the traffic branch of   said, “Red beacons from all vehicles excluding that of chief minister, cabinet ministers, ambulance, fire and emergency services will be removed”.
 
 The order was against the March 18 cabinet decision which said neither MLAs, officials nor cabinet ministers except chief minister, judges and emergency service officials will use red beacons.
 
 The order had the subject line “Punjab government has decided to implement the policies issued in Congress manifesto for 2017 elections for next five years”.
 
 There were murmurs that some of the nine cabinet ministers were unhappy with the removal of red beacon.
 
 However, within hours after the first order, the chief minister’s office ( ) issued a clarification, saying, “The transport department had erroneously put out a part of the poll manifesto, which the social media had picked up and published as an official notification.”
 
 Amarinder issued a public statement that there was no question of any change in his stand on VIP culture. “The ministers had voluntarily decided to give up these beacons during the maiden meeting of the cabinet. They had ratified the poll promise as a policy decision. The cabinet decision remains intact,” said Amarinder.
 
 Power minister and richest MLA Rana Gurjit Singh had first kicked up a storm after he refused to remove the beacon but later relented.
 
 Sources in the Congress said Amarinder was also keen on disbanding the much-famed special protection unit (SPU), a wing of Punjab Police that has a dedicated 600 cops, including women, for the protection of chief minister. It was raised by Akali Dal supremo and then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal in 2010.
 
 Captain has already appointed a retired IG-rank counter-terror cop and former   officer Khubi Ram as his security officer on the rank of ADGP on Monday.
 
 Twitter was abuzz with criticism on Tuesday’s first order with trolls saying “Bagawat ho gayee shuru”, “the muffler effect vanished”, “Punjab Government makes U- turn”.
 
 
