GURUGRAM: Citizens can now come up with innovative ideas to help civic guardians develop green lungs across Gurgaon, creating dedicated leisure and entertainment zones that suit the Millennium City’s repute.

 As a part of the celebrations of golden jubilee year of Haryana’s formation, Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) is planning to set up Swarna Jayanti Parks and has invited residents, firms and green experts to share ideas on the same. 
 
 MCG sources claimed the proposed parks would be developed on the lines of zen gardens for meditation and yoga; activity zones with open gyms; fun centre for entertainment; and topiary parks for greenery. MCG is, currently, focusing on four zones, and civic officials claim that each zone may boost more than one parks. The project is likely to be completed within this year.
 
 Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner, MCG, said there was an absolute scarcity of quality public spaces in the city, which often causes problems for the citizens — be it senior citizens who want to go for a walk or children who want open ground to play. Gurgaon is considered to be a world class city and thus, public spaces must be innovative and purposeful, he added.
 
 “We are inviting all residents and experts to come forward and share their ideas with us. Many of us travel abroad and come back with some great experiences in terms of civic amenities in those countries. People with such experiences may share their inputs with us, which will be of great help in designing and developing open green spaces,” he added.
 
 While the   is reaching out to the residents through its   handles, one can send suggestions to the corporation office by post or simply walk in or call in to give their inputs.
 
 According to Chauhan, availability of open space won’t be a problem as the civic body has enough land available for the purpose. Besides, the corporation may also renovate the existing parks for optimum utilisation of resources. “Though we are starting with four parks, we will not end the project at four,” said Chauhan.
 
 Residents have welcomed the move. “Maintenance is as necessary as developing a facility. If the condition of the open gyms that MCG opened last year is any indication, the proposed parks might just turn out to be another token initiative. And thus, as a residents’ association, we will be more than happy to ensure cleanliness and maintenance of such parks in our vicinity on our own,” said Sanu Kapila, RWA president, Nirvana Country.
 
 
