Pune: The use of   may soon become   in the city as politicians and   are pushing for a   in this regard.

 Three corporators of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have tabled a proposal before the civic standing committee, which has forwarded the same to the civic administration for consideration. The administration is willing to implement the proposal once the general body and the state government approve.
 
 “The PMC has been focussing on garbage processing and management but the route of the problem is heavy use of plastic bags. The PMC is promoting use of paper as well as cloth bags. But the traders and small vendors are using plastic bags. Plastic bags clog nullahs and drains in the city,” stated the proposal. It added, “The civic body should make use of paper or cloth bags mandatory."
 
 Currently, there is a ban on carry bags having a thickness of less than 50 microns. But thicker bags can be used. “Though promethean bags are banned, they are used rampantly. The use of eco-friendly materials such as paper bags will help in managing the garbage. These materials can be composed easily compared to plastic. Some of these materials can be reused. Mandatory use of eco-friendly bags will curb use of plastic bags,” said Yogesh Samel, a BJP corporator, who has placed the proposal with two other corporators — Haridas Charwad and Pramod Bhangire.
 
 “We have discussed the proposal. A view from the solid waste management department is needed. It has been given to the civic administration for review. The final call will be taken after knowing their stand,” said Murulidhar Mohol, chairman of the panel.
 
 “The GB has to take a decision regarding eco-friendly bags. Some changes in laws and rules at the civic level have to be made. A green signal from the state government will also be required,” said Suresh Jagtap, head of PMC’s solid waste management department.
 
 Besides hampering garbage processing,   also lead to waterlogging during the monsoon. This is particularly observed during the start of the rainy season.
 
 
