VARANASI: In the past two days, FIRs have been lodged against two jailed gangsters for making extortion calls. A mafia don lodged in an Azamgarh prison was accused of demanding Rs 20 lakh and threatening the chief medical superintendent of the district hospital on the phone, while another jailed criminal made threat calls to a sari trader in Varanasi. 

 On May 4, the   had come up with evidence that the shooters who killed   leader Neeraj Singh and his three companions in Dhanbad (Jharkhand) had been arranged by a jailed don, Prem Prakash, alias Munna Bajrangi Lieutenant, who is also lodged in   jail.
 
 On Tuesday, a sari trader of   area lodged an FIR against one Sonu, alias Manish, for making an extortion call. It was reported that on May 13 three men had raided the trader's workshop, thrashed him and fled with his mobile phone. After a few hours, Sonu called the trader and claimed he was calling from Ghazipur district jail. Boasting that police had announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 for his capture, he demanded a huge amount. The trader reported the matter to the police after which CCTV footage from a workshop was examined and one of the attackers identified.
 
 On Monday, Azamgarh district hospital chief medical superintendent G L Kesarwani received a threat call from a jailed don,  , alias Kuntu, who attained notoriety after killing former BSP MLA Sarvesh Singh Sippu in 2015. Kuntu made this call to extort Rs 20 lakh from the CMS.
 
 On May 4, when the STF in Mirzapur caught the main shooter,  , in connection with the March 21 killing of Neeraj Singh and his companions at Dhanbad, he revealed that Rinku Singh, in Mirzapur jail since 2015, had sent him to meet Bajrangi's lieutenant, Pankaj Singh, to get the contract for the Dhanbad hit against a payment of Rs 50 lakh. After killing Neeraj, Aman went underground. On failing to get paid, he came to Mirzapur jail to meet Rinku and the STF caught him.
 
 "Once it is proved that those criminals made phone calls from jails to make extortion threats, officials of the prison department will be asked to fix responsibility on the jail officials concerned," ADG (Varanasi zone) Vishwajeet Mahapatra said. 
 
 PM Narendra Modi had claimed at a rally in mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari's citadel of Mau on February 27 that jails would become "real jails" in UP after the Assembly poll results.
 
  After a BJP-led NDA government took charge of the state, chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi tried to fulfil Modi's promise to smash their crime network outside jail by ensuring that dozens of dons and gangsters were shifted to other prisons. 
 
 However, none of these efforts proved sufficient as lesser-known gangsters threw up fresh challenges. In view of this, Mahapatra said efforts are on to find out which jailed criminals operate gangs outside prison so that action can be initiated.
 
