MUMBAI:   from   in south Mumbai met the municipal commissioner on Saturday after they found that the   2034 shows a children's park reservation in their area being changed into  . They also submitted a letter, stating their concern, to the civic chief.

 The resident associations of Cumballa Hill, Peddar Road, Altamount Road, and Carmichael road stated that they wanted to lodge their official objection regarding the change in nomenclature. The children's park around 4,505 sq metres is located barely a few metres away from the municipal commissioners bungalow on Carmichael Road now officially called M L Dahanukar Marg.
 
 “It is not understood as to why, how and on whose behest the said change of land use from `children's park' to `residential' has taken place, when one considers the huge efforts that residents and associations have put in to use and maintain the garden plot as green lung for the children and senior citizens of Cumballa Hill,“ stated the letter sent by the associations to the BMC.
 
 The residents said that they were saddened as Cumballa Hill does not have a single garden or green space, hence this change in reservation was unacceptable. Bina Thadani, one of the residents, said that the space has full grown trees and despite this, the civic body has decided to mark it as residential, which is unfortunate.
 
 Nina Maru, a resident of Carmichael Road questioned that where would children go to play if this park is gone. “We wanted to get an answer for the planners hence we decided to meet the commissioner,“ said Maru.
 
 The BMC however, said that there is little they could do as the area was marked as per a  's order given in the year 2007.
 
 In march 2002, the land owner issued a purchase notice asking the state to acquire the land or to permit him to develop it. The BMC had passed a resolution in September 2002 requesting the state to acquire the land as a playground. The land owner moved the high court in 2004 to challenge the acquisition process, but his plea was dismissed. The owner then appealed in the Supreme Court in 2005 and in 2007, the SC ordered that the playground could make way for housing.
 
 Ramesh Kundanmal, Carmichael Road resident, said, “It was BMC's responsibility to acquire the plot which they did not do on time and so why should children and senior citizens in the area be deprived of using it.“
 
