LUDHIANA: CCTVs installed under the   project helped police crack a case of carjacking at gun point repoted from Sector 32,   on Thursday. The case turned to be fake.

 After investigations, police found that complainants Harman Kumar and his friend Gujinder Singh were drug peddlers who wanted to frame two customers they had a financial dispute with. 
 
 On Thursday, Harman Kumar and his friend Gurjinder Singh said they went to a private bank in the Sector 32 market on Chandigarh Road. On returning, they said, their car developed a technical snag and they parked it at a slip road. As they were fixing it, two motorcycle-borne persons came up and started thrashing them. They said the miscreants snatched their mobile phones, cash, gold chain and car at gunpoint. 
 
 However, after investigation, division number seven police found that the story had been made up. Additional deputy commissioner police-4 Sandeep Sharma said the version of the complainants was suspicious. Police said the complainants told them the miscreants robbed them at gunpoint after they made a cash transaction. “But we found no transaction had been made by them in the bank and this was also corroborated by   footage. Besides, CCTVs installed in the area captured the complainants driving their car,” he said.
 
  Sharma said, “Both Harman and Gurjinder supply narcotics. On Thursday, two customers visited them near Sector 32. All four were sitting inside their car when they had an argument over payment. The two customers abused Harman and Gurjinder, who hatched a plan to implicate them in a carjacking case.”
 
 Police also traced the car by tracking the mobile phone location of the accused. The ADCP said mobile phones were inside the car which was parked on another part of Chandigarh Road. Later that evening, Gurjinder took the car to Gill village. This was confirmed by his mobile location. A police party followed him and he was caught parking the car outside Gurudwara Manji Sahib in Alamgir village. Harman Kumar is at large and police are on the lookout for him.
 
 
