BENGALURU: The state budget for 2017-18 is likely to be free of fresh proposals under a range of heads like VAT, and entry, entertainment and luxury taxes as the new taxation regime Goods and   ( ) is around the corner.

 “For the first time, tax rates on commodities will not be tinkered within the state budget as we are waiting for GST to come in. There is little scope for taxation proposal in the budget before implementation of the new tax regime,“ said an official in the finance department.
 
 Chief minister  , who also holds the finance portfolio, is expected to present the budget on March 10. Levies like VAT (value added tax), excise duty, entry and entertainment and luxury taxes are going to be subsumed under GST, and the states will have limited role in changing the rates. In the new regime, any change in the tax rates is subject to the approval of the GST Council, which has finance ministers of all states as its members, and the proposal has to be passed in the council with two-third majority. “Thanks to all this, people are being spared tax hikes, and commodities in the state will not be dearer at least for four months before we know the new tax rates under GST,“ said B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee of   (FKCCI).
 
 However, Siddaramaiah has a free hand to change tax rates other than VAT on commodities. Sales tax on liquor and petroleum products, stamp duty on property registration, and professional tax have been kept out of GST purview and the chief minister may propose to change the rates. “It all depends on the fiscal situation assessed in the review meetings. As the chief minister is interested in augmenting revenue, you should not be surprised if he proposes to hike some of these taxes,“ said a source.
 
 The GST is expected to be in place by July 1, although the deadline for its implementation is September 16. As the present taxation system will expire on September 16, the states have to bring in new State GST Act (SGST) to levy tax and this would be a component along with Central GST (CGST) and Inter-state GST (IGST). Officials said the process for passing the SGST Act will start after the budget session and by then more clarity is expected on the date of implementation of GST.
 
 The CM will start pre-budget consultations on February 16. “We are in for a different scenario this time as the states have to pass the GST bill, before which the state budget has to be prepared,“ said I S N Prasad, additional chief secretary (finance).
 
 “There are certain issues to be taken into consideration before deciding the budget and our fiscal standing would be clearer after the pre-budget meetings,“ he added.
 
 Prasad said the impact of drought, and demonetization on revenue collection is being looked into.
 
