NEW DELHI: Encouraged by the success of a pilot project in 17 districts of the country, the Centre has decided to roll out one of its biggest   across the country from June where fertilizer subsidies would be transferred to manufacturers on the basis of actual sales, a move which will pave the way for implementation of the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system in this sector and could save up to Rs 7,000 crore by plugging leakages. 

 Though it will take some more time for the government to directly transfer subsidies to accounts of the end users (farmers), the June roll out will provide the government enough data through point of sale (PoS) machines having Aadhaar-based authentication system at retailers end to achieve its ultimate objective system of transferring benefits to farmers possibly after mid-2018. 
 
 The government has budgeted Rs 70,000 crore for   in the current financial year. 
 
 At present, subsidies are paid to fertilizer companies on the basis of receipt of fertilizer at rail rake points or identified godowns in districts. Once the new system is implemented from June, the manufacturers will get the difference between the actual value and the subsidized price of fertilizer in the companies bank account after giving actual details of sales through the PoS. 
 
 "It will plug leakages and save huge amount of money to the exchequer. Sales of neem-coated Urea have already stopped illegal diversion of fertilizer for non-agriculture applications like in plywood and textile sectors or for milk adulteration. New system will completely put this practice to an end when companies will have to provide details of end users", said an official of the move which is expected to have far-reaching political implications. 
 
 It may, however, be a big question at this juncture as to when the Centre would launch the DBT in real sense when subsidies will pass directly to the farmers. This is the first baby step towards direct benefit transfer but unless the money is given to the farmers accounts amd the price of urea is freed till that time it cannot succeed," Ashok Gulati, Infosys chair professor at ICRIER said.
 
 He said the current method may result in Rs 5000 to Rs 7,000 crore in savings by plugging leakages and diversion but to achieve Rs 25,000 crore saving much more effort is needed on all fronts.
 
 The minister of state for fertilizer, Mansukh L Maandaviya, had recently expressed the difficulty at directly transferring subsidies to farmers' bank accounts while explaining how the implementation of DBT in fertilizer subsidy payment is different from the DBT being implemented in LPG or food subsidy. “Under the DBT in fertilizer sector, the subsidy will be released to the fertilizer companies instead of the beneficiaries, after the sale is made by the retailers to the beneficiaries,” Mandaviya had said, referring to the proposed system and ongoing pilot projects. 
 
 Keeping its June roll out plan in mind, the government has asked all the fertilizer marketing companies to install point of sale (PoS) machines by May end. The companies have also been asked to train the retailers so that the scheme can be rolled out quickly. There are about 2 lakh retail fertilizer outlets across the country. 
 
 Unlike other susbidies such as for cooking gas and kerosene or foodgrain where subsidy is capped for certain quantity per household or individual, the government will adopt the “no denial” policy in the case of fertiliser sale. This means anyone who presents his Aadhaar number will get the fertilizer at subsidized rate. Though retailers will ask buyers about the size of land for which one is buying fertilizer, it would not be recorded in the initial stage of the scheme roll out.
 
 “We are not thinking of the next step as of now. It will take about a year to understand and get a trend of how much fertilizer is actually sold across the country and who is buying what. It will also help us find whether there is still diversion of highly subsidized urea even after the neem coating,” a fertilizer ministry official said. 
 
 A soil health card scheme launched last year will help in determining the actual need of fertilizer but so far it has achieved only 40% of its target.
 
 Expressing apprehensions of launching DBT for farmers, officials noted that its introduction in the fertilizer sector seems a gigantic task as the beneficiaries and their entitlements are not clearly defined at this present. "Different inputs - urea, phosphatic and potassic fertilizers - have different rates of subsidies. Besides, it would be premature to accept that all the farmers would be able to buy their requirements of fertilizers at market rate and wait for 15 days or a month to get the subsidies. So, we are at present banking on the reform to provide subsidies to manufacturers on the basis of their actual sales from the upcoming Kharif season (June)", said an official.
 
 
