‘Does anyone know about us’ I asked him.
 
  ‘Only Arjun’
  
  I had heard this name before. My boyfriend Saahil had told me that he was very close to Arjun. Arjun was his senior at the   they studied. Arjun was working in Hyderabad at that time. They had known each other for only three years but had a deep connection. I was not sure about the relationship and did not want a lot of people to know till we were ourselves sure. Three months post this discussion I felt that it was not working. I told Saahil that I wanted to move out. Saahil was convinced about us. He wanted me to reconsider. Then Arjun called me one day…
  
  Arjun is one person that exudes maturity as he speaks. We chatted for an hour during which he was able to persuade me to meet Saahil. He considered Saahil to be a sensitive and dependable person and I kind of agreed with the observation. Arjun felt that Saahil and I made a wonderful pair. Well, this was a little too much! Arjun had not even met me. Anyway, Saahil and I got together again. Six months later, we got married. Obviously, Arjun was there for our marriage. That was when I met him the first time. First impression, Arjun was extremely warm and easy going. I felt an instant liking towards him. He teased Saahil that I was the biggest jackpot of Saahil’s life.
  
  A year later, Arjun relocated to Delhi. We all started meeting frequently at friends’ get-togethers. Arjun and I had an electric connection every time we met. We could talk about diverse topics, could appreciate our similarities and respect our differences.
  
  Three years in time, I had a son and Arjun was married. Saahil and I still had compatibility issues and I somehow felt I could turn to Arjun for help. Arjun obliged and we met up over a cup of coffee. I poured my heart out to Arjun. He agreed with few of my issues and counselled me on how I could handle it better. Mostly, he felt I had overreacted to the situation and helped me see Saahil’s perspective. I was completely bowled over by Arjun’s depth. I sensed love for him. I knew this was not ethically correct. Maybe, I was going through a bad phase and was just getting carried away. I came back with a newfound understanding about my marital relationship. I put in efforts into making my marriage survive. And it did work.
  
  I tried calling up Arjun a lot of times post that but his number was not reachable. His account had also been deleted from Facebook. Saahil was also clueless about Arjun’s whereabouts.
  
  Ten years later, I met Arjun again. Saahil got him home. They had bumped into each other at a cafe that evening. Arjun had divorced two years post his marriage and had relocated to Singapore for a job. He did not want bitter memories of his past to be haunting him and had consciously severed all ties from India. He had returned to India only two months back. We had dinner together and Saahil went out to get ice-cream post dinner. My son had gone off to sleep in his room.
  
  There was a weird silence between the two of us. Arjun broke the silence. “Remember the day that we met up for coffee. My wife and I had filed in for divorce the same day. I could sense that there was a spark between the two of us. I didn’t want to be the reason that you walked out of your marriage. I loved you both enough to not be a reason for your breakup. I rebuilt my life away from you so that you’d never think of me as an option. I didn’t want to cheat Saahil. I’m so glad it has worked out between you and him. I’m so proud of your perseverance. But to be honest about my feelings that day, even with one son you would have been quite a jackpot for me!”
  
  
  
