The six-member band   have set themselves apart with their metal renditions of yesteryear Telugu chartbusters. Their metal version of O Paapa Laali from Gitanjali, which became a hit in the city’s music circuit, also got a shout out from Nagarjuna himself recently. “Ilaiyaraaja is like a God to us. His music is highly technical and was way ahead of his time in the 90s especially. In fact, we were nervous to improvise on a classic like this. But Ilaiyaraaja’s baselines make covers much more exciting,” says drummer, Aaron Wesley adding, “But we were surprised, shocked even, when Nagarjuna himself shared the music video we made of that song. That was a big boost for us.”
Vocalist  , keyboardist  , bassist   and lead guitarist   complete the line-up along with sound engineer  . Akshar started out as a conventional rock band in 2010. “We won the band competition in BITS Hyderabad and got to open for famous Pakistani band Strings on the main stage in 2010. That was something else! We even opened for Hip Hop sensation Akcent in front of 20,000 students at TKR Engineering College in 2013,” recalls Manmohan, enthusiastically. 
 But they decided to experiment with hit Telugu chartbusters to reach out to a wider audience and began testing waters when performing at their gigs in the city. Soon, their quirky covers of hits like Anando Brahma from Shiva and Bollywood classics like Roop Tera Mastana, Jaane Ja, Aaja Aaja Main Hoon Pyar Tera began to find appreciation among the city’s party folk. They even released a video of Ammayi Muddu Ivvande from Venkatesh’s Kshana Kshanam. “Most people love these classics, and hearing it live and in a fresh and edgy style gives them another high. These tracks proved to be winners on social media as well. Our versions incorporate genres as diverse as Reggae, Metal, Blues and Rock and give these hit songs an edgy makeover and that’s what people love about them,” says Manmohan Raj.
 They are working on a lot of original compositions as well. “We have already recorded two songs, and there are two more to go. We plan to release a four-song EP soon. And the themes are something people will relate to, for instance, we have a song called Ch$ti&*pa which talks about the mistakes that everybody makes while another track titled No Cash Song is inspired by the demonetisation drive. We like to convey a message to our listeners. And that’s why the band is named Akshar — a word; a message,” says Surabit, 
 signing off.
 
