NEW DELHI: With new police chief Amulya Patnaik asserting that fighting   will be one of his prime agendas, sources say the department has already expedited the process of developing   apps, which would enable one to lodge complaints from the comfort of their homes.

 It’s learnt that there will be two sets of apps — one to be used by all 13 district police units and the other by the economic offences’ wing. Complaints of crime valued below Rs 2 crore will automatically be diverted to district police for investigation. 
 
 A plan to have a well-equipped district investigation unit is being chalked out too. Patnaik said district cyber cells would be strengthened in terms of technology and manpower. 
 
 Explaining the features of the app, a senior officer told TOI, “A person will need to register with the app to lodge a complaint after which he/she will get a number on both mobile and email. They can also download or print a copy of the same. One will be able to upload documents to support the complaint. You can view the status of the complaint by logging in at a later stage.”
 
 There will be two sections of offences — economic offences, which would be registered under sections of cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust, and cyber crimes, which would be lodged under IT Act and IPC sections. There will be a kiosk, which will register complaints received in physical form (hard copy) on behalf of the victims.
 
 A “complaint branch” would receive these complaints and assign them to an “inquiry officer”. An interesting feature is that if a complaint has already been lodged against an accused, then all subsequent ones will be automatically transferred to the same inquiry officer who handled the first complaint.
 
 “The EO will study the complaint and send emails/SMSes to the people involved — banks, other institutions and agencies for any information or assistance required in the probe. Thereafter, the EO will meet the accused if he/she is reachable,” said the officer.
 
 
