BENGALURU: The   ( ) on Thursday told Karnataka State Pollution Control Board ( ) that merely serving closure notices to polluting industries is not enough. The board must ensure the units are closed. 

 NGT was referring to the industries around Bellandur Lake; it had set a one-month deadline to clean the waterbody in April. It also advised   (BDA), Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and KSPCB not to waste time on drafting 100-200 page reports and work instead.
 
 The pollution control board said 76 out of the 97 industries in the lake’s vicinity had been issued closure notices. Pointing out the provisions under Section 33 A of the Water Act and Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, NGT told KSPCB it has the power to inspect, shut down and seal the polluting units. The tribunal said it expected the board to close them when it passed the order on April 19.
 
 The state government, however, sought more time to implement the previous order, in which the tribunal told the government to close the polluting industries, deweed and desilt the lake and check sewage inflow.
 
 KSPCB chairperson Lakshman told TOI, “Some of the industries have ceased operations. We will start an inspection as per the tribunal’s order from Friday. We had written to the deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Urban and police commissioner about the joint inspection. We will be accompanied by police officers and will seal the units if they are functioning despite the closure notice.”
 
 NGT also directed the three agencies — BDA, BWSSB and KSPCB — to ask industries to instal effluent treatment plants. They were also told to ensure apartments and residential complexes around the lake instal sewage treatment plants (STPs) within a reasonable deadline. If the latter fail to comply, the authorities were told to snap electricity and water supply. Lakshman said the board will begin inspection of apartments (to check if they are equipped with STPs) after they receive the order in hand.
 
 Box: Seeks report on STPs, water quality by July 13 
 
 The tribunal instructed KSPCB to collect samples from existing STPs, get them tested by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and revert by July 13. The report needs to contain the exact measurement of each of the 17 drain/inlets to Bellandur, its water quality, details on the biological oxygen demand in the water and STP capacities. NGT also sought details about the number of buildings and apartment complexes near the lake.
 
