After the recent   win over the Aussies,   is being hailed as a match-winner and the core strength of home side. Quite a transition from the times, not so long ago, when he remained on the mere fringe of the cricketing turf. There’s also a newfound confidence in his voice, as he fields the toughest of the volleys with effortless ease. Excerpts…

 
 
 Honestly, it does make me want to say touchwood. But deep within, I know that more than superstition, it is my hard work that has worked. I know how I have slogged this past one year. I focussed a lot on my line and length. Today, when I’m getting this appreciation from the seniors, I feel my efforts have paid off.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I really don’t believe in this form business. There is nothing like good or bad form; it is all about your mindset. The magic mantra is to remain positive always. When you are not able to deliver, you go into negative zone. Negativity is something that I have tried to shun and it has really helped. Similarly, I never allowed the criticism to get the better of me.
 
 
 
 I think it is the motivation level and the way everybody in the team is supporting one another, that has worked well for us pacers. It has given us the confidence to take any wicket anytime. Captain and the coaches have instilled it in us that when you are the number one team, you can’t give reasons that wicket was different or not meant for pacers. We are forever hungry to perform and win.
 
 
 
 If you say start something, you have to be ready for the reaction too. Everybody knows Virat didn’t start all this; it started from Aussie side. They started enjoying the sledging, and we followed suit. If someone says anything to me, I will also not take it lying down. Australian started the fire and we returned in style.
 
 
 I think Virat is doing a fantastic job as a skipper! He motivates, supports and empowers the team and we are all giving our best because of his positive, vibrant energy. If Virat asked for my advice, I would just say – ‘Be the way you are! Don’t pay any attention to these so-called accusations.”
 
 
 
 I feel media must remain neutral. It shouldn’t be that you try and hide the mistakes of your own players and blame the others in this process. It is a fact that Australian media was acting as a support staff, trying to treat their players with kid gloves, even when they were in the wrong. They should have pointed out the truth. It is not that their players were holier than thou and we were the ones who were all bad. Sadly, the clarity of vision was missing in their stance.
 
 
 
 I feel these heated exchanges will be forgotten during IPL. You can’t carry the burden of a skirmish forever. I strongly believe that animosity of one cricketing ground has to be left there itself, so 
 that one can focus on the next journey and the new pitch.
 
 
 
 I would love to sweep her away, but she is fasting for Navratri. So, I would rather spend some cosy time at home with her and enjoy some ghar ka khana.
 
