NEW  : The narrow lanes are congested, the drains are choked and dhalaos are overflowing and what could have become a quaint, historical quarter of the capital lies hidden behind ugliness. This is Chandni Chowk, and it never changes despite big promises in every election campaign. Now with the four existing municipal wards in the   assembly constituency reconfigured into three, even the sitting councillors are confused. Will this have post-poll repercussions for the Chandni Chowk wards? 

 During delimitation,   and Chandni Chowk wards were retained, but Kashmere Gate   was dissolved and a part incorporated into Chandni Chowk, while Majnu ka Tila ward was expanded with the remaining parts of Kashmere Gate and renamed Civil Lines. “The maximum portion of my ward was merged with Chandni Chowk and the rest with  ,” worried Harsh Sharma, sitting councillor of Kashmere Gate in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. With the ward he nursed no longer existent, he seemed clueless about where he stood a chance for re-election in April. 
 
 In any case, the record of the councillors doesn’t impress anyone. Layak Ali of Jama Masjid ward waved his arms to indicate the cramped lane leading to the interiors of his colony. “Even an auto rickshaw cannot fit on this road, and it is the same everywhere in the ward,” he said. He cited unauthorised construction, encroachment by hawkers and accumulated garbage as the reasons for the choked thoroughfares. “Nothing changes here,” he concluded dolefully.
 
 There were grand multi-agency plans to redevelop Chandni Chowk, with the area being pedestrianised, the road infrastructure improved and utilities, including overhead electricity wires, confined to an underground tunnel. But not a single step has been taken in this direction. The Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal has futilely petitioned the government several times to ban cars in Chandni Chowk, said its general secretary Sanjay Bhargava. “Instead of Connaught Place, Chandni Chowk required to be pedestrianised,” Bhargava insisted. He alleged that though the north corporation collected money through conversion charges and parking, development was hit by “mismanagement of funds”.
 
 A councillor gets Rs 50 lakh every year under the local area development fund, but one cannot espy any projects of the sort in the Jama Masjid ward. Khurram Iqbal, the incumbent councillor, pleaded that a large portion of the funds under his control lapsed in 2015-16 due to the treasury woes of the civic body. “The corporation could not pay contractors, so they went on strike, leaving the councillors unable to deploy their funds for development work in the wards,” explained Iqbal. “In 2016-17, we got only Rs 25 lakh as area development fund.” The local councillors of Chandni Chowk and Majnu ka Tila wards were not available for a comment.
 
 If one area in the assembly constituency has benefited, it is Civil Lines — earlier the Majnu ka Tila ward — and that because it is home to the chief minister and top government officials. But even here, there is uneven development. “Civil Lines has all the civic amenities, but in areas like ours, the colony roads are in disrepair and the dhalaos remain uncleared,” said Ajit Singh, a resident of Majnu ka Tila. He doesn’t think the coming polls will change things. After all, he points out, “No political leader ever visits this place even for inspections.” 
 
