NEW DELHI: France has been a happy hunting ground to   and his team   in this season's Formula E. After back-to-back racing weekends, Heidfeld has walked away with two successive third place finishes in Monaco and Paris ePrix.

 On Saturday, Mahindra Racing completed one of their finest days in this 'electric car' racing series, with Heidfeld finishing in third place while teammate   ending in fourth place in Paris. The result consolidated Mahindra Racing's third place in the Contructors Championship with 87 points after six round, 24 points ahead of nearest rivals DS  .
 
 "It has been fantastic to get two podiums in the last two weekends. Both Monaco and Paris are great locations to host an ePrix. We were unlucky with the results in Mexico but the team will now be expecting to finish in third or fourth place regularly. And, finishing the season in third place will be great for us," Heidfeld told TOI from Paris on Sunday.
 
 Heidfeld, who turned 40 just a couple of weeks back, has competed at the top level in   with 183 race starts with teams like Prost, Sauber, Jordan and Williams. Just last weekend, the German driver became the only driver to get a podium in Monaco in both F1 and Formula E race.
 
 "The biggest difference for me in Monaco was the circuit layout in F1 and Formula E. Being on the podium in Monaco is so special because their is so much history attached to it. The Monaco ePrix was most challenging so far because it is the only F1 circuit on the calendar," Heidfeld, who holds the F1 record - 41 - of most classified finishes, said.
 
 After both drivers qualified just shy of the series' Super Pole shootout session in sixth and seventh, they started the race in fifth and sixth following a ten-place grid penalty for Oliver Turvey. Heidfeld immediately jumped from fifth to fourth on the opening lap, with Rosenqvist following suit to overtake Esteban Gutierrez not long after before a collision down the field forced early pit stops for most drivers.
 
 "We were much more competitive in Paris. In Monaco, I was having trouble keeping in touch with the lead cars. The change to the set up was good as was the battery management which was at par with the leaders," the Monchengladbach driver added.
 
 Asked how far his team was from a maiden ePrix win, Heidfeld said, "On paper, we are just a couple of positions back. But since last season, e.Dams are much more stronger team now and it won't be easy to beat them. However, if they have a bad day and we manage to string a perfect weekend, a win is not out of reach." 
 
