It's been around for just three sea sons but the   (ISL) has indeed come a fair way since it kicked off amid much fanfare in 2014. Testimony to its growth lies in the fact that the addition of two teams means the league will be a 10-team affair when the 2017-18 season gets underway. In an exclusive interview ahead of Sunday's player draft which will involve 200 plus players,  , Chairperson of  , reflects on the  's evolution and voices her optimism as far as the road ahead of Indian football is concerned. 

 
 
 
 
 I am as excited as the players and our clubs are for the season ahead. I am looking forward to the Hero ISL 2017-18 as we strive to make each season bigger and better. The player draft will see the official launch of Hero ISL season 201718. Within just three years, the league has witnessed 140% increase in number of Indian players aspiring to play professional football in ISL. The draft features 200 plus players as against 84 players in the draft in Season 1.
 
 Eight clubs have retained a total of 22 players thus forming the core of their respective squads. We estimated that each of the club will look at having between 15 and 18 domestic players in their squad. The player draft will be even more interesting this year as the two new teams compete with the eight, who will bring in their learnings from the previous three seasons.
 
 
 
 I am overwhelmed by the response and affection we have received for ISL. t is on the back of this support that ISL has expanded to ten teams with addition of Tata Steel's Jamshedpur FC and Jindal's Bengaluru FC.
 
 Following the Fifa Under-17 World Cup, the fourth season will commence from November 2017. Starting this season, we have brought down the maximum international player rule to five with an aim to bring more Indian players on the field for each team. This will go a long way in building the Indian talent and ultimately create more of our local heroes. The extended League will hope to connect with fans even deeper and stronger. With experienced coaches, international players, emerging and established Indian stars, and nine home games to look forward to, fans would build even stronger affinity with their favourite teams.
 
 
 
 
 It's been an exciting and challenging journey so far, and we look forward to continue with the same vigour. If you can find meaning in your work, it becomes passion. Football, for me, has truly been that journey. I am glad that all stakeholders have shown the commitment to develop grassroots and support the growth of Indian football. It's gratifying to see a continuous rise in affinity towards football in last three years amongst the established football markets and development of new markets.
 
 ISL 2016 was watched by 216 million on television and a record 6 million on digital platforms. We also had in-stadia fill going upto 86%. Kerala has certainly emerged as the dominant state where ISL has bettered the cricket viewership with 2016 ISL final receiving an unprecedented rating of 17.3 TVR as 41 million Indians were glued to TV.
 
 Chennai and rest of Tamil Nadu have also embraced the sport amongst the newer markets, demonstrating that football has fans across untapped cities & states. With the two new additions, we hope to see Jharkhand and Karnataka join the football map.
 
 
 
 
 It's satisfying for me to see after a long haul, the world is beginning to talk about India and its football. But this is only the start of the journey. Three years are behind us, we have a long way to travel and we are committed to Indian football's development. First and foremost was to have a defined 12-month calendar for Indian football. With ISL and I League to run concurrently, we have created a clear window for the national team to explore international matches and friendlies ­ which helps India in its quest of improving its Fifa rankings.
 
 We will see over 350 competitive football games live either on Star Sports Digital platform of the Team India fixtures, ISL, I-League, League 2 and also the new properties such as the four-nation Champions Cup, Super Cup and Women's League. In addition, we are planning to introduce League 3 ­ a tier 3 professional competition and other tournaments based on age groups. This will pave the way for the youth and grassroots football to link to the larger ecosystem.
 
 
 
 
 We have been focused on the grassroots from the inception of ISL. We believe grassroots is the bedrock of longterm development of football in this country and I am glad that all the ISL clubs share this passion. Since 2015, ISL Grassroots and Reliance Foundation Youth Sports initiatives have reached 3.3 million plus children across the country through our systematic grassroots and centre for excellence programme.
 
 I am delighted that two of our 48 Reliance Foundation Young Champs ­ Kshitij Kumar (U13) and G Balaji (U15) have completed trials at   and NEC Nijegen successfully, and have received offers from NEC Nijegen. We hope that we will have many more of such success stories to share in the near future. Such stories, I hope will inspire many of our youth to take this beautiful game and make careers in football, thus helping create India a true Footballing Nation.
 
