GURUGRAM: Within the next two days, National   ( ) is going to open the U-turn at Hero  . Initially, only small, non-commercial vehicles will be allowed to use it, but it will still benefit a large number of people living in sectors on either side of the   expressway. The opening of the U-turn will also reduce congestion at   toll plaza and Rajiv Chowk, and will reduce the travel time for many people.

 At present, neither U-turns, nor right turns are allowed at Hero Honda Chowk, due to which vehicles coming from the Delhi side have to travel nearly 7km ahead from Hero Honda Chowk to Kherki Daula toll plaza to take a U-turn and return to Hero Honda Chowk, from where they could go to Sector 10A. Similarly, vehicles coming from Jaipur side have to travel to Rajiv Chowk to take a U-turn, return to Hero Honda Chowk and take a left to the Hero plant. This causes congestion between Rajiv Chowk and Kherki Daula toll plaza, and increases travel time.
 
 The U-turn will be allowed under the flyover. NHAI has already made one side of the flyover at Hero Honda Chowk operational on March 27, with the other side likely to be opened by June 30.
 
 The U-turn was supposed to be inaugurated on Monday, but was delayed as NHAI was unable to clear the area under the flyover. “The area will be cleared of construction debris in a day or two,” said an NHAI official, adding that a traffic marshal will be stationed at the junction to streamline traffic flow. Only small vehicles will be allowed to take the U-turn, while commercial vehicles will have to follow the old route.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said the U-turn will ease traffic congestion on the expressway. “It will help de-congest the area,” said Yadav.
 
 Every day, over a lakh vehicles pass through Hero Honda Chowk, of which several thousands travel an additional 12-14 km for a U-turn. “With the opening of the U-turn, people coming from Delhi side can easily move towards Sector 10A,” said Suman Mishra, who lives in the sector, adding this will cut their travel time.
 
 Pradeep Yadav is excited about the opening of the U-turn. “It will save more than an hour of my travel time — half an hour in the morning and a little more than that in the evening,” said the Sector 10A resident who works in Manesar.
 
 
