NEW DELHI: A   on Saturday left a 26-year-old man stabbed to death and his friend critically injured. The two men had been trying to help the driver of a Swift car being attacked by five goons. 

 The trouble began outside an eatery in east Delhi’s Geeta Colony late on Saturday night when the accused men asked the owner of a red Swift to remove his car. When he refused, an argument began and led to the fatal knifing of a young man who intervened. The accused fled and were yet to be traced, police said.
 
 Police said they learnt of the incident around midnight when an eyewitness made a PCR call. A police team was quickly sent to the spot.
 
 The prime eyewitness, eatery owner Gulshan Kathuria, said an auto driver who had been eating at his establishment had immediately rushed the bleeding men to Hedgewar hospital. Police arrived minutes later and some of them headed for the hospital.
 
 Nishant Arora (26) was declared brought dead; his friend, Gaurav Sharma (27), is said to be critical and battling for life.
 
 Police said five men on a motorcycle and a scooter had been heading towards the eatery when a red Swift car drove up. Since the two-wheelers couldn't find place to park they began blowing their horns and then banged on the driver’s window and told him to move his car.
 
 The car owner, Navin Kumar, was a regular visitor to the eatery and asked the boys to wait till he got his dinner packed. 
 
 “There was ample space beside my car and they could have easily parked their two-wheelers. But they kept pestering me to move my vehicle. The men were rowdy and within no time grew aggressive. They literally pounced on me when around four men came to my rescue,” said Kumar.
 
 Sensing that the situation might worsen if he didn’t move his car, the man drove off to park elsewhere while the others fought. “After around five minutes, when I came back to the food joint hoping that things would have calmed down, Nishant and Gaurav were lying in a pool of blood and the accused men were nowhere to be seen,” Kumar added.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad said they have registered a case and are scanning footage from CCTVs in the area to ascertain the sequence of events. Police said they had also questioned locals who witnessed the incident to prepare sketches of the accused men.
 
 
