PATNA: Will the   colleges and universities of the state get new teachers soon to manage their   properly? As the things stand today, it seems to be a  .
 
  Ever since the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) advertised 3,364 posts of assistant professors in 41 subjects for different universities in September 2014, only 49 teachers of Maithili could be appointed till date. Even though the BPSC has reportedly completed the process of interview in about 10 subjects and even published the list of selected teachers of about six subjects, not a single teacher of any other subject has been appointed so far.
  
  It is, however, learnt that the state education department has released the list of selected candidates in English and philosophy to the universities a couple of days back with a direction that the candidates recommended by BPSC could be appointed only after all their original certificates are verified by the issuing agencies. Academics apprehend that verification of all certificates, including those of matriculation, intermediate, graduation, post-graduation, PhD and NET may take a pretty long time as most selected candidates are from far-flung areas.
  
  The BPSC had sent the list of selected candidates for English to the education department as early as on May 11 last year and those of philosophy on December 13. But the list of these two subjects could be released by the education department only recently and that too with a rider.
  
  The BPSC has also sent to the BPSC the list of selected candidates for appointment in economics (December 22), physics (January 27) and psychology (February 10). Nobody knows when these lists would be released to the universities. In the meantime, the BPSC is going to interview the eligible candidates for appointment of assistant professors in zoology from Monday, said sources.
  
  It is interesting to note that the state government has already decided to delink the appointment of university teachers from the BPSC and two amendment bills – the Patna University (Amendment) Bill, 2017 and the Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2017 – for facilitating the revival of state level university service commission have already been passed by the state legislature. It is hoped that as soon as these Bills get the chancellor’s assent and a gazette notification is made, hopefully by the end of the current month, the BPSC would have to stop the process of appointment.
  
  Legal experts assert that the direction of Patna high court on resumption of interview for appointment of assistant professors would automatically become null and void with the enactment of   Then, the vacancies would once again be advertised by the   university service panel. And, in all probability it may think of holding the state level eligibility test on the pattern of NET before initiating the process of interview. And, all these works are likely to consume much time, feel the academics.
