THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala will be declared as a 'fully-electrified' state by chief minister   on May 29 in Kozhikode, said power minister M M   on Thursday.

 Mani said that the state Mani said that the state with 1.25 crore   consumers, has provided connections to all households, except 1,000 families. This includes 150 families belonging to tribal communities living in dense forest areas. These people have not got power connections due to pending court cases and denial of permission from the forests department, the minister said.
 
 After the LDF came to power, the government had granted power connections to 4,70,000 families, of which 1,50,000 were provided under the total electrification scheme. Consumers who are using less than 20 unit of power each month will not be charged, the minister added.
 
 Central norms stipulate that if two public utilities in a village are electrified and 10% of total houses in that village are given power connections, that village can be declared as completely electrified. In that respect, the state has become fully electrified, he said.
 
 The government achieved its total electrification goal after conducting a drive to find those houses that had no power and gave them an opportunity to apply for new connection by simplifying existing procedures. This included enrolling them under connection schemes through methods like SMS, missed call and WhatsApp.
 
 After registering their na mes, houses that had an area less than 100 sq m area were provided connection without seeking ownership documents and homes with a built up area below 1,500 sq m were provided connections with the temporary numbers provided by their panchayats. In places where it was difficult to take power lines, KSEB introduced solar plants to provide power connections. This include 1,600 houses in 22 colonies.
 
 The state spent Rs 174 crore for the total electrification project, of which Rs 37.34 crore was spent from the asset development fund of MLAs.In addition to KSEB, organizations such as Anert and energy management centre were part of the state's total electrification mission.
 
