NEW DELHI: India plans to restart its engagement with   and Indian Ocean littoral states when President   kicks off his foreign travels with a visit to Ethiopia and Djibouti next week.

 While Ethiopia has been a traditional focus country for India in East Africa, Djibouti is growing in importance with China setting up its first military base there. Kovind’s visit comes even as Chinese troops conducted the first ever combat exercise in Djibouti last week. Chinese troops have been stationed in Djibouti since August, but according to Chinese reports this is the first time China has conducted live fire exercises in a foreign base.
 
 Although Japan has had a base in Djibouti since 2011 and the US and France have been present there for a long time, China’s presence is a gamechanger for India.
 
 The Indian Ocean is a prime focus of India’s maritime diplomacy and naval presence, and hotly contested by China which has greater reach and more resources.
 
 Abhijit Singh of ORF, writing on the consequences of the Chinese port for India, says, “Previously, a section of India’s strategic elite saw China’s forays in the region as largely commercial and believed the Indian Navy, which dominated the South Asian littorals, could effectively counter PLAN (People’s Liberation Army Navy) aggression there. That consensus appears to have shifted. Many Indian observers now believe China’s military outpost in East Africa is aimed at regularising a PLAN presence in the Indian Ocean, underscoring Beijing’s strategic ambition across the arc of the Indo-Pacific Region.”
 
 India and Japan are putting together the building blocks for an Asia-Africa Growth Corridor, an initiative to counter China’s powerful influence on these countries.
 
 The project uses a different modus operandi, making it more consultative and transparent. However, it’s difficult when China’s emphasis on infrastructure projects in African countries are there for all to see. For instance, as   will find out, China has completed rail links between Djibouti and Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, along with railway lines in Algeria, Angola, Kenya and Sudan, not to speak of the projects under way in Guinea, Senegal, Nigeria, Uganda and   among others.
 
