HYDERABAD: Invoking Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), the   ( ) bench at Hyderabad on Wednesday appointed an insolvency resolution professional (IRP) for resolving the debt crisis at Hyderabad-based   ( ) and declared a moratorium of 180 days. 

 A bench of  , member (judicial), and Ravi Kumar Duraisamy, member (technical), pronounced this order after hearing the petition filed by Canara Bank, which had knocked on the tribunal's doors after attempts to recover dues running into over 700 crore from the beleaguered Hyderabad-based company proved to be futile. 
 
 Though the DCHL counsel made a last-ditch attempt to get the appointment of the IRP deferred by telling the tribunal that the DCHL management was in talks with Canara Bank's managing director for arriving at a one-time settlement (OTS), Canara Bank's senior manager (law) Sumit Shukla, who was present in the court, denied any such proposal was before them. Following this, the tribunal rejected all the claims of DCHL and appointed the IRP.
 
 According to senior counsel Deepak Bhattacharjee, who argued the case on behalf of Canara Bank at the tribunal, the IRP will now hold a lenders meet and decide the further steps to be taken. Explaining to TOI the subsequent steps, Canara Bank's standing counsel Dishit Bhattacharjee said the IRP appointed by the tribunal will immediately make a public announcement of the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process and invite all the lenders to submit their claims under section 15 of the IBC. The IRP will then call for a meeting of the creditors and a committee of creditors will be formed.
 
 Once the creditors' committee is formed, they may continue with the current IRP or appoint a new IRP if the lenders suggest someone else as their unanimous choice, he said. For now, the tribunal has appointed a professional, whose name was mooted by Canara Bank, as the IRP. The IRP will practically run the show at DCHL, particularly its finances, Bhattacharjee said, adding that the IRP can even appoint experts to assist him to do the job.
 
 According to an estimate made by the Union corporate affairs ministry, the total loans raised by DCHL were well over `4,000 crore three years ago and the dues with interest may have increased further since then.
 
