CHENNAI:   will take charge of   ( ) after the club unceremoniously removed   as their coach on Tuesday. It was reliably learnt that the club owners wanted to appoint a coach from   only and the 52-year-old   coach scored over other opponents with his 12 years experience. An official announcement will be made on Thursday.

 A source confirmed that Soundara Rajan has already been interviewed for the post last Monday. “We had shortlisted several local coaches. But Soundara Rajan fits the bill perfectly. He has a lot of experience and has had successful stints with local and national teams. Also appointing a coach from TN goes with our philosophy to promote local and home grown talent. Even when he was interviewed on Monday, his philosophy was in sync with the team’s… so it made our job easy,” the source said.
 
 Soundara Rajan has acquired his AFC Pro Licence in 2005, one of the first three Indian coaches to do so. The coach had then worked with the Under-16 and Under-19 national sides for four years from 2007-11 apart from taking an unheralded Tamil Nadu side to the semi-finals in the 2009  . Even in recent times, Soundara Rajan had tasted success as the man in charge of the Andhra side in this season’s Santosh Trophy.
 
 However, Soundara Rajan has no coaching experience in I-League and CCFC might prove to be a tough task. Not only he has to pull out a team, who are placed at the bottom of the table with four points from seven matches, he has little time to settle down in his maiden assignment. The only respite for him is CCFC will play their next three matches at their homeground. Soundara Rajan, though, is ready to take on the challenge. His first assignment will be on Saturday when his side will face Mumbai FC. “All my life, I have waited to coach an I-League club. Now that I have got a chance, I will not let it go easily. I will prove myself. I know most of the players and have been following the I-League closely. So it should not be an issue to adjust quickly,” Soundara Rajan told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Apart from adjusting quickly, Soundara Rajan will also need to give chance to local players like striker A Reagan, wingers Soosairaj and Beautin, a task in which CCFC former coach Robin Charles Raja faltered and lost his job. Club general secretary Vikram Murali said, “It was one of the reasons for sure. There were philosophical differences between the club and the coach. We set out to promote our local talent and he would say that they are not I-League standard. If you don’t give them a chance, how would you know whether they are at par with others… The local players felt let down with the coach’s approach. Besides, the results were not encouraging at all even when we gave him the players we wanted. These issues forced us to replace him.”
 
 Robin, though, had a different tale to tell. “Someone informed me that the owners wanted Reagan to start in our last two matches against Lajong and East Bengal. But we had signed him only a few days back and he was clearly not match fit. Had we been winning, I would have still tried him. But I got no opportunity. A few of our crucial players also got injured and it brought our performance level down. But I don’t have anything against anyone and I wish all the luck to the team,” said Robin.
 
 A change in coaching personnel midway into a season often throws a team into disarray. CCFC captain D Ravanan said it is important that the players don’t lose focus. “We are already up against the wall. We cannot go back any further. The only way is to go forward. We have performed well but results have not gone our way. We have to bounce back. We have three home matches now and this is the right time to start winning. We cannot afford to lose focus now,” Ravanan said.
 
 
