NAGPUR: “There should be uniform guidelines for hospitals on  . If entire hospital staff beginning from sanitary workers to doctors implement the norms, it will help in minimizing not just the morbidity but also the mortality of patients.

 This was stated by Dr Bela Bhattacharya, chief of medical services of Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL). She said infection control should be at the back of everyone’s mind in any hospital to minimize hospital related infections and resulting diseases. She was speaking at the inaugural session of a week-long programme on ‘infection control’ organized by the   (MIMS) here on Thursday.
 
 Earlier, the hospital managing director Dr Sameer Paltewar said use of antibiotics was no longer the solution to treating infections. He said day by day the disease causing organisms were developing resistance to antibiotics. In fact, multi-drug resistance in all major diseases had become common and doctors as well as pharmaceutical companies were fighting hard to deal with the situation.
 
 Dr Paltewar said the hospital had started the infection control first as an in-house programme for the staff. It became so popular among the doctors, especially the resident doctors, that MIMS was now involving many other city hospitals including medical colleges. The annual quiz in the programme had become the most common and attractive feature of the programme.
 
 Earlier Dr Ashwini Tayade, physician, called for an antimicrobial stewardship from the medical fraternity. Dr Raj Kondawar pointed out that although almost everyone including the patients were quite aware of the basic Dos and Don’ts for preventing infection but seldom anyone practised it in reality. Dr Yagnesh Thakkar, Dr Sandhya Saoji, Dr Madhavi Deshmukh also spoke.
 
 A quiz was conducted for the resident doctors of various hospitals by Dr Thakkar, Dr Deshmukh and Dr Shweta Pawalkar. A poster exhibition was also held to judge the basic understanding of hospital staff. Of the 13 hospitals that participated in the quiz, five finalists were chosen. Doctors from   won the first prize while   bagged the second.
 
