LUCKNOW: Reiterating its stand on King George’s Medical University’s plan to expand its post graduate wing, the Medical Council of India struck down 10 of the total 12 proposals it received for approval. Most of these proposals have been turned down on grounds of discrepancies pointed out earlier “not being removed satisfactorily”. 

 Additionally, two of the three proposals for expansion of postgraduate medical courses at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) under KGMU have been put off by the MCI.
 
 The council had in September 2016 submitted the assessor’s report declining approval to 16 proposals out of 19 it received from KGMU. On the discrepancies pointed out, KGMU submitted a compliance in December 2016 after which a Compliance Verification Assessment Report was submitted in January 2017. 
 
 Most discrepancies were in KGMU’s compliance with norms. The council will now submit the final report with its recommendations to the Central government.
 
 From inappropriate promotions against   to inadequate staff and equipment, cross-transfer of faculty between departments and low bed occupancy on the day of assessment, MCI had put in writing several anomalies. For the radiotherapy department, it raised an issue on the decreasing number of brachytherapy (advanced cancer treatment) from 783 cases to 356 cases in the last three years. For  , MCI noted that the compliance was received past the last date. 
 
 KGMU had sought MCI's approval for increase in number of seats in MD Radiotherapy, MD General medicine, MD Community Medicine, MD Respiratory medicine, MD Pathology, MS Ophthalmology, MD Microbiology, MD Anesthesia, MS ENT, MD Pharmacology, MD Radiodiagnosis and for beginning of an MS Traumatology & Surgery PG unit. Of these, only MD Community Medicine and MD Pharmacology proposals were approved. 
 
 RMLIMS, on the other hand, had asked for permission to start MD Emergency Medicine and MD Nuclear Medicine which were not approved. It had also sought permission to increase MD Anesthesia seats, which was approved. 
 
 Reacting to the setback,  ,   (VC), KGMU, said, “This is routine MCI procedure where sometimes its takes years to get approval but we will assess what they want and comply with it. At the end of the day, even the MCI wants increase in teaching capacity. We have resent a proposal for increase of almost 300 seats in 30 departments.” 
 
 Nod to 12 MD seats 
 
 The MCI approved increase of 12 seats in the MD Pharmacology department at KGMU, as also three seats in the MD community medicine department. Two seats have also been approved in the   course at RMLIMS under KGMU. 
 
