DELHI: It was a report of fire in the Ganga water due to discharge of inflammable effluents from nearby industries in Haridwar which prompted the noted environmentalist and lawyer M C Mehta to file a petition in the Supreme Court on cleaning the river over 32 years ago. The same PIL on Thursday culminated in a comprehensive judgement of the NGT, asking both central and state authorities for multiple actions on the ground to make the country's national river clean.

 In an interview to TOI, Mehta on Friday recalled how the ground visit to find out the reason of fire in river water exposed him to the cruel face of industries which used to discharge toxic chemicals into the river. "It was really shocking for me to know that a person lit his cigarette and threw the matchstick in the drain joining the river, leading to a massive fire in Ganga. It took nearly 30 hours for authorities to control the fire. The incident had shaken me so much that I, as a lawyer, decided to bring it to the notice of the Supreme Court", he said.
 
 Mehta had filed the petition against four industries, including the public sector BHEL, and the rest is history. The SC had later clubbed many cases pertaining to the Ganga river pollution. The first judgement had come in 1987 when the apex court asked for closure of 29 tanneries in Kanpur. Subsequently, the SC had delivered another judgement and asked the municipal corporations and local authorities to set up sewage treatment plants (STPs) and ordered the polluting industries to set up effluent treatment plants (ETPs) and follow certain dos and don'ts before discharging water into the river in different states.
 
 "Unfortunately, nothing was done on the ground. In fact, all the government agencies, local authorities and industries are under contempt for not following the previous apex court order", said Mehta demanding a probe into the subsequent actions which resulted into spending of over Rs 7,000 crore of public money in the name of cleaning the river Ganga without any concrete result on the ground in the past three decades.
 
 "It was tax-payers' money. Even the CAG had found many lapses in its audit. Why shouldn't a central agency (CBI or any competent authority) probe it"? asked Mehta - recipient of the Ramon Magsaysay Award who had also fought a long legal battle to protect Taj Mahal from pollution.
 
 The NGT on Thursday prohibited dumping of waste within 500 meters from the river and ordered that a 100-meter stretch on either side of the river between Haridwar (Uttarakhand) and Unnao (Uttar Pradesh) must be a "no-construction, no-development zone". It also made a provision of imposing Rs 50,000 fine for dumping waste into the river, besides multiple other actions for government agencies like setting up STPs within two years, shifting of tanneries with six weeks, dredging and cleaning of 86 specified drains and formulating a guidelines for religious activities on the river banks.
 
 Mehta believes that the implementation of the Tribunal order is very much possible provided the government shows its political will. He said the pollution level in Ganga had not reached the present level if the successive governments, both at Centre and states, would have enforced the previous Supreme Court order.
 
 He suggested that the government should set up a task force (a central body) and entrusts it with adequate powers to enforce the NGT order within 500 meters stretch on both sides along the entire length of the river passing through five states - Uttarakhand, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.
 
 He said if the Centre could take care of national highways and rail tracks passing from different states, it could as well do the same for the country's national river. On the government's plan to bring a central law on the river Ganga, Mehta believes that no political party would afford to oppose such central law if government introduces it in Parliament.
 
 "Anyone opposing such law would expose himself/herself before the people", he said. He also explained the rationale behind the NGT order, saying it would be in the interest of the people, living along the river, even on economic terms. He pointed out that the people living along the banks are, in fact, living on toxic land, drinking poisonous water and producing hazardous products. "The health cost of all such activities is far bigger than what they have been earning on the polluted land along the river", said Mehta.
 
