BANKURA: Akansha Sharma had booked a Tatkal ticket to Howrah from Bhopal on July 12 last year. Investigators say they believe she had wanted to travel on July 15. “We have evidence that makes us believe that   had murdered her on July 15. He throttled her to death after asking a mason to create a half-finished alter between July 12 and July 15,” a police offical said. 

 Sources say Akansha’s passbook shows an online transaction she made with   in this regard.
 
 “It seems Akansha had found out Udayan was never in the US and wanted to return home. It is also possible she had found out about the murders of his parents. It was also around the same time that we find the Rs 1.20 lakh in Akansha’s account was withdrawn in three quick withdrawals,” said a source. The motive behind the   can be established in the next couple of days, he added. 
 
 Sources also confirmed Udayan had never set foot on US soil. “He has, however, claimed by showing his passport that he had been visiting foreign shores ever since he murdered his parents and had occasional live-ins with Akansha from 2014. Akansha and Udayan had been visiting each other since 2012,” said a source. “However, the visa documents need to be verified,” said an officer.
 
 Police sources hinted they will soon be travelling to both Raipur and Bhopal in connection with the case. 
 
 “At present, we are waiting for Raipur police to come. Besides lodging a murder case against him in the twin murders of his parents, a separate FIR has been lodged after it was found he had used fake death certificates of his parents,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said the team in Raipur will look into several aspects, including certain bank transactions made by Udayan. “It seems he had withdrawn around Rs 20 lakh from the bank account of his father. This amount, we believe, was his father’s pension. He might have used the money to buy the Mercedes and Honda Civic cars which he claimed to possess. Sources say at least one of these cars is registered with a woman from Janakpuri in Delhi. All these leads will be investigated.
 
 
