You’d think youngsters, who are well-versed with social media and the concept of drawing a line between real and reel would know that their favourite heist films are just that – entertainment only. But no… instead, the city recently saw the   police arrest two college-going   for stealing two bikes. When questioned by the police, they confessed that they were stealing bikes ‘just for fun’. The incident reiterated the fact that the number of students committing a crime for their personal entertainment is   at an alarming rate. 

 
 
 
 “The first time around, when these collegians stole a bike, it was just for fun. They wanted a bike to roam around as they didn’t have one, so they simply stole it. Soon they realised that no one is questioning the possession of a bike in their midst, a stolen one at that, so they stole another one. The second time around they even had the audacity to change the number plate,” shares  , assistant police inspector (API),   Road police station. Majgar adds that in a similar manner the duo had stolen seven bikes and even managed to sell one to their friend. 
 
 
 
 
 Talk to youngsters and you will realise that the main driving force behind their actions is peer pressure. “Friends matter a lot in our lives. I know I can influence my friends to something and vice versa,” says Ashwini Mujumdar, a management student of Bitco College. Ashiwini adds that getting along with the wrong sorts will definitely get you in trouble one day. 
 
 
 
 Ravinder Singhal, commissioner of police, Nashik believes that a support system of parents, teachers and society is needed to restrain our youngsters from taking the wrong path. “We have witnessed a steady increase in juvenile crime as well as crimes committed by students. Sometimes youngsters commit a crime for fun, sometimes they want to have expensive things for themselves which they can’t have otherwise, while sometimes it’s just peer pressure. That’s why we need to establish a support system for them. They should have someone, may be a friend, parent or teacher to who they can confide in, talk about what’s going on in their mind,” he adds. Singhal, along with the police department is undertaking a counselling drive in the city colleges and schools. 
 
  
 
 
