CHANDIGARH: UT higher education has sent a proposal to the   (PU) to shift the process of conducting   to BCom courses to the colleges from next session 2018-19.

 In a written communication sent to the PU, the higher education department said as other courses namely BBA, BCA, BSc medical and non-medical are conducted by the colleges through centralised admission, they should be allowed to conduct the centralised admission for BCom course too from 2018-19.
 
 Sources said the department will soon be adding BA and all post-graduation courses under centralised admission conducted by the colleges, following which only BCom will be left out if the PU will not allow colleges to hold admission for it. 
 
 Recently, Panjab University vice-chancellor   agreed that the centralised admission to BCom courses should be conducted by the director higher education department in colleges. UT higher education state liaison office Bikram Rana said the department is expecting that the written approval from the PU would arrive shortly as the higher authorities of the university has already given a green signal to the matter.
 
 In 2010, the first centralised admission for the BCom courses was conducted for the city colleges. The decision was taken by then senate and syndicate after serious anomalies were found in the process of conducting the admission by the colleges. Parents of the students had complained to the PU that the colleges were not giving admission to the students under reserved categories. A written representation was also submitted saying that centralised admissions should be conducted for the BCom courses too.
 
 Written complaints were made to the University Business School department of the university and the director higher education stating that back door admissions for the BCom courses have been taking in private colleges, which are not following the norms set for the admission. There was allegation accusing the private colleges of charging hefty fee from students, who had low ranks in class 12 results, before giving admission in BCom courses.
 
 After discussion on the issue, it was decided that there will be centralised admission for the BCom courses for all city colleges that the University Business School would conduct in campus.
 
 
