BETTIAH: Armed   notorious gangster   on the   court   on Thursday.
 
  An accused in over 40 cases of murder, kidnapping and extortion, Dubey was facing trial at Bettiah, among other places, since his arrest with the help of Nepal police in 2013.
  
  A scourge of north Bihar with cross-border linkages, Dubey was said to have masterminded the sensational kidnapping of Nepali industrialist Suresh Kedia in 2016 even when he was behind bars. A sum of Rs 100 crore had been demanded as ransom.
  
  West Champaran SP Vinay Kumar, who was instrumental in the arrest of Dubey and safe recovery of the Nepali industrialist last year, did not rule out the possibility of the murder being a fallout of a gang war. “The history-sheeter had enemies,” the SP said, adding police had taken the crime on the court premises as a challenge and would nail the culprits soon.
  
  The assailants, three or four in number, managed to slip into the court campus past metal-detector gates and security guards with firearms and killed the prisoner being protected by a dedicated force armed with automatic INSAS rifles. “Apart from this 1:4 armed security ring, the prisoner was brought in a dedicated van for production in the court,” the SP said and attributed the reluctance of the guards to fire at the fleeing assailants to fears of collateral casualties.
  
  “The court premises was crowded. Opening fire would have hit civilians too,” he said, adding police chased the criminals, but they managed to escape.
  
  Eyewitnesses said Dubey was produced in the court of judicial magistrate Kumud Ranjan around 10.30am. Around 11.10am he was being escorted out by guards for production in the sessions court of ADJ Rakeshpati Tripathi when a young assailant approaching from the east fired. “He missed, turned and ran. The policemen went in chase. Meanwhile, other men waiting in the wings pumped in five bullets,” a lawyer recounted, preferring anonymity.
  
  People ran helter-skelter for safety as Dubey fell down in a pool of blood. He was taken to the M J K hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’.
  
  Among the cases against Dubey was the one pertaining to the murder of Jawahar Mukhia who was gunned down in a hail of fire from AK-47 in the Majhaulia police station area in 2012. Dubey was being taken to the sessions court in connection with this case of murder.
  
  A sharpshooter of the notorious Santosh Jha gang, Dubey was also an accused in the 2013 murder of two employees of Vasishtha Construction firm, involved in the construction of a bridge over the Gandak. This case is pending in a Gopalganj sessions court. The murder of two engineers of another construction firm in Darbhanga in 2015 had brought focus on Mukesh Pathak, another sharpshooter of the Santosh Jha gang. Dubey was also said to be in the hit squad that executed the double murder.
  
  A resident of Siswa-Kharar village under the Kalyanpur police station area in East Champaran, Dubey was also involved in cross-border smuggling of narcotics.
