NEW DELHI: Allopathic doctors may soon have a new symbol to distinguish themselves from those practising other streams of medicine, such as ayurveda and homeopathy.

 The   (IMA) is trademarking a new symbol — a red cross with ‘Dr’ written in the centre in white — to be used by doctors with an MBBS degree in allopathic medicine.
 
 The IMA has already secured a no-objection certification (NoC) from the   (IPO) to trademark the symbol, and is now in the process of registering it.
 
 Once it is registered, allopathic practitioners will be able to use it on prescriptions and as signage to indicate they have studied “modern medicine”.
 
 “We feel it is important in today’s times to differentiate between doctors who have studied modern medicines and those practising other streams... The objective is to make it easier for patients to identify allopathic doctors,” IMA president Dr K K Aggarwal said.
 
 After it is registered, if the symbol is used by anyone other than allopathic doctors, IMA can lodge a complaint and seek action.
 
 The IMA, which represents doctors from across the country, had invited designs and suggestions for the symbol in 2015. Aggarwal said the association had also sought legal opinion on the usage of the symbol.
 
 However, there are concerns that the new symbol might resemble that of the  , which has been recognised since the 1864 Geneva Convention as a distinctive sign for medical relief teams on battlefields.
 
 IMA maintains the new symbol uses a lighter shade of red for the cross and use of the abbreviation ‘Dr’ in the centre differentiates it from that of the Red Cross. Moreover, the association is also open to make modifications if required.
 
 Of late, allopathic doctors have raised objections against   (ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) practitioners, and the government’s efforts to bring them into the mainstream.
 
 While the increasing popularity of AYUSH poses a threat to incomes of allopathic doctors, inadequate clinical evidence supporting alternative medicine is often cited as a reason to differentiate between the two.
 
