MUMBAI: With the monsoon gaining momentum, infectious   too have spiralled in the city. Seven people have succumbed to   influenza and   in the first two weeks of July, while hundreds have been affected by suspected   and gastroenteritis. Cholera too has made a comeback. 

 The H1N1 influenza, widely circulating since June, claimed five lives, including that of a four-year-old child from Mankhurd, in July. Worryingly, a delay in treatment with the antiviral oseltamivir contributed to four of the five deaths,   said on Monday. Three of the deceased were from the western suburbs.
 
 The city’s death toll for the viral infection now stands at 14, including nine deaths recorded in June. In Maharashtra, deaths caused by H1N1 crossed 300 on Sunday. More than 65% victims of the virus in the state has underlying conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Four adults who died from the city had at least one chronic condition. While two of the deceased had hypothyroidism, the other two were known cases of hypertension.
 
 “H1N1 is predominant among all other seasonal infections currently circulating in the country. Maharashtra, Kerala and Gujarat have contributed to more than 70% of the 600-odd deaths nationally. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are leading in cases. But we understand little about its severity compared with regular flu,” said Dr AC Dhariwal, director of the Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). An NCDC team, which toured the state in June to review deaths, had pointed to a “considerable delay” in initiating treatment in patients with co-morbid conditions as the prime reason for the high fatality rate.
 
 As per the civic report, among the latest victims was a 57-year-old man from Bandra who had a history of diabetes and hypertension. He died after developing bilateral pneumonia and multi-organ failure. The patient had travelled to Vapi, Gujarat, 3-4 days prior to developing H1N1 symptoms. All other victims were women, including a 65-year-old Parel resident, a patient of hypertension. She died of bilateral pneumonia and sepsis following the H1N1 infection. 
 
 A 41-year-old woman from Borivli (W), a known case of hypothyroidism, died after developing acute respiratory distress syndrome. The patient was treated in a private  , from where she took discharge and went to the public sector. The third deceased too, a 45-year-old woman from Goregaon, had hypothyroidism, a condition where the thyroid gland slows production of hormones needed for metabolism and energy. State epidemiologist Dr Pradeep Awate said most deaths were recorded in the 22-50 age group this year.
 
 The four-year-old child was treated in three hospitals before he succumbed to the viral infection in a public hospital. Awate said less than 10% of the deceased in the state are from the pediatric age group.
 
 The civic body said they have vaccinated over 3,000 people, including 2,216 pregnant women, 650 healthcare workers and 140 patients of diabetics and hypertension. Doctors have recommended vaccination for children, pregnant women, senior citizens and people with underlying health conditions.
 
 
