BENGALURU: The usually soft-speaking   working president Dinesh Gundu Rao went ballistic over state   president B S  's recent comment - purportedly based on a diary seized by the income-tax department -- that chief minister Siddaramaiah had paid Rs 1,000 crore to the Congress high command. In an interview with TOI here on Friday, Rao said the BJP was doing this with assembly polls in mind. 

  Why is the Congress getting worked up over what it calls an "unverified document" and accusing the BJP of hatching a conspiracy to finish the party? 
 
  There is an agenda by the BJP to malign the Congress. This is BJP's run-up to the assembly poll in 2018. Yeddyurappa has been making allegations that he has information of three ministers resigning. All these statements were on what grounds of certainty? The diary was supposed to be a confidential document. How was it leaked? When chief minister Siddaramaiah writes to the IT department seeking details on the diary, he is told it is confidential. I-T raids have been selective and are happening only in Karnataka and non-BJP states. 
 
  Your Satyameva Jayate rally on Thursday to debunk the BJP's diary allegations turned out to be counter-productive, with the latter tweeting Satyameva Jayate after its release... 
 
  My party's reply to the BJP even today is Satyameva Jayate. The entire issue is under investigation. The BJP has been trying to defame the Congress for the past four years, be it in IAS officer D K Ravi's case, Arkavathy denotification or the Hublot watch. None of these allegations stuck. Not one minister resigned on corruption charges, hence they are resorting to these selective leaks. 
 
  Why has the Congress not come out in strong defence of Siddaramaiah's confidant K Govindaraj? 
 
  We have evidence that a particular officer of the I-T department leaked the information on the diary and raids conducted on Congressmen. Since we have evidence, we are deciding on what kind of action is to be taken. The BJP has no right to demand Govindaraj's resignation as the moral question will arise if PM   had admitted to what was mentioned in the Sahara-Birla diaries, which clearly mentioned the dates of the transactions, to whom money was paid and by whom. The persons to whom these emails belonged admitted that the records were theirs. Besides, the I-T department is not under the state government. If Yeddyurappa has well-founded evidence, why doesn't he take a delegation to Union finance minister   and demand that the I-T investigations pending since a year, conclude? 
 
  Do you agree that donations are made to parties? 
 
  I am not going to deny it. Donations are made to every political party, but a procedure has to be followed. Polls cannot be fought on the expenditure ceiling fixed by the Election Commission. Nobody will believe if someone says they adhered to the ceiling, as more than 10 times of what was stipulated would have been spent. There is need for electoral reforms regarding funding to political parties. But I am not going to link the diary to all this. 
 
