On Monday, a 15-year-old girl from the Indiranagar was taken into a room by an acquaintance, a 17-year-old boy. He held her hand and took her to a friend’s place to tell that he loved her. When the victim raised an alarm, the suspect was nabbed by the police. 

 Two months ago, the Gangapur police had arrested two persons, who had stopped a 22-year-old woman along the College Road and had tried molest her. 
 
 These incidents show that, like many metros,   is also increasingly becoming   and girls. 
 
 The police statistics reveal that incidents of harassment and outraging the modesty of women continue to remain high in the city. While 114 such cases were registered in 2016, 107 such incidents took place in the previous year. Apart from complaints of outraging modesty, there have also been cases of kidnapping, rapes, etc, registered with the city police (see table). 
 
 The sickening experience of being stared by youngsters and even elderly men is not new for girls and women in various lanes and bylanes. Many have gone through times when they were touched inappropriately in buses or rickshaws. There are also cases of women’s modesty being outraged in full public view as well. 
 
 A 38-year-old woman said that the areas near several schools and colleges teem with indecent elements. 
 
 “Such persons keep staring at girls. Very few girls report such instances to their parents or school authorities which, in fact, should be the first thing for a girl to do. If girls do not react, the boys or the men get more encouraged, which then could lead to passing of comments and even groping inappropriately,” she said.
 
 Manisha Kashid, assistant inspector attached to the women’s cell at the police commissionerate, admitted that a large number of women and girls never come to the police to report such incidents. 
 
 “If they are harassed by a particular group of boys or men at a particular place or time, they would take some other route. The come to the police only when they feel that things are going out of their control,” Kashid said. 
 
 Manisha Vispute, secretary of the  , which runs Adarsh Vidyamandir at Nashik Road said, “Girls do not tell such problems to their parents, considering that they may get a scolding for no reason. This is why we have put up a complaint box in our school on December 15. Over the past three and a half weeks, at least 25 girls must have put their complaints in the box. We would soon be taking necessary action. The initiative was taken in view of the harassment girls could be facing from boys, or men while coming to the school or on their way back home.” 
 
 In view of the serious nature of the problem, commissioner of police Ravinder Kumar Singal, who had delivered a lecture for girls at Adarsh Vidyamandir, had made an appeal to all schools to put up complaint boxes so that girls could write down their problems and drop it in the boxes.
 
