CHENNAI: Air fares for travel in April and May have started to climb, hinting that people have started to book tickets to fly home, and for short holidays abroad. April and May will see a surge in   as colleges and schools close for vacation.

 Cheaper fares on short haul domestic routes, which can be covered in less than an hour, have been mopped up by those who plan their trips in advance.With trains falling out of favour because of the time taken for travel and absence of amenities, a majority of the people who preferred AC III tier and AC II tier coaches have instead, opted for flights. Reservation status of berths on AC coaches of some of the popular trains to Madurai, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram have already reached the waiting list.
 
 Only a few seats are left at the rates of Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500 on Chennai-Madurai, Chennai-Kochi, Bengaluru and Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram. Fare on full service carriers has touched Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000. One-way airfares are usually available in the range of Rs 2,800 to Rs 3,500 for a week's advance booking during non-peak season. An airline official said, “The fares will go up in the coming days as fare slab for the lowest price is fast getting sold out. The airlines have already kept their fares slightly higher anticipating the demand for summer holidays. If demand picks up further, fares will cross the Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 mark very soon.“
 
  of Metro Travels said, “We are expecting good demand for air travel in April and May.Demand is high on the Chennai-Mumbai, Kochi routes because of people going on short breaks. Fares are also high because special offers end by February.“
 
 International fares were also high, he added. “Return tickets are selling at Rs 30,000 on Dubai route in April and May, an increase triggered by people travelling because of school holidays,“ he said.
 
 Countries like Malaysia agreed to waive visa fee for a short duration after   (TAFE) made a representation. Usually e-visas cost Rs 6,000. Singapore has agreed to speed up their visa process which otherwise takes five to seven days. These benefits comes in addition to the visa-on-arrival facility for Indians at Macau, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Reunion  .
 
