MUMBAI:   can be held   or injury caused due to failure to   or   Legal experts say public authorities cannot escape liability--a view supported by court rulings. This assumes significance for the families of Kanchan Nath, killed last week by a falling tree in Chembur, and Jagruti Hogale, killed on Sunday by a truck after she swerved her bike to avoid a pothole on Jawhar-Dahanu highway .

 “The state has a duty to provide amenities and services.When they neglect this obligation, resulting in injury or death, they can be held accountable under the legal principle of `vicarious liability' (responsibility of a body for negligence by staff),“ says advocate Uday Warunjikar.
 
 Nath's husband Rajat has sought criminal prosecution of horticultural assistant of the MWest ward Deepali Kaur; Nath's lawyer S Balakrishnan said the police have just registered a case of `accidental death'. An officer said on Monday the police are considering whether BMC officials can be book in the case or not.
 
 One way to claim damages is a writ petition in a high court, invoking its discretionary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution. Warunjikar used this method while representing his client, Bhiwandi resident Bhavika Mehta (25), who lost a leg in 2012 when she was pushed out of a train. The lawyer claimed the railways had failed to provide security on trains. Following the court's prod, the railways footed Bhavika's medical bills and also provided her compensation.
 
 For a victim's family , the other method to claim damages from the state is by filing a suit for bad roads, contaminated water or other amenities. “Human life is the most important resource that any state has at its disposal and one cannot just sit back and express apathy when lives are repeatedly lost. Conse quences for negligence must follow. Compensation can be calculated applying yardsticks as in motor accident cases,“ says advocate Firoz Bharucha.
 
 In 2011, the Bombay HC directed Hinganghat Municipal Council to pay compensation to a Nagpur couple who lost their son in 2003 to jaundice. “The civic body failed in performing its statutory obligation of provid ing uncontaminated water to citizens. (It failed) to notice leakages in water pipelines to avoid access of virus-infested water,“ the court held. The man's parents had submitted a letter written by the Wardha civil surgeon to the municipal council and other authorities asking them to take action to tackle the jaundice outbreak by fixing leakages in water pipelines. The same year, the court directed the state public works department to compensate the family of a Nashik resident who died when his scooter fell into an unmarked ditch on the road. The court held that the PWD “failed to perform its duty of maintaining the road in a proper condition; it was its duty to warn motorists by putting up display boards“.
 
