HYDERABAD: Girls, who generally outshine boys in board exams, failed to find many spots in the top 10 ranks in the TS Eamcet on Monday. While no girl topped the engineering stream, only three managed to a place in the top 10 in the   discipline. On the other hand, when it came to the overall pass percentage, girls fared better than boys in both streams, scoring higher pass percentages.

 Experts said the stark difference in performance at the topper level can be attributed to the difference in the way the two genders approach competitive exams. This is complicated further by societal pressures and gender discrimination. “Girls tend to give more priority to board exams than competitive exams. They are also more teacher and classroom-centric and like to be in the good books of teachers whereas boys concentrate more on competitive exams,” said  , who has been into IIT coaching for over three decades.
 
 Ramaiah said boys tend to succeed more in competitive exams as they don’t follow any particular pattern while preparing and instead, concentrate on garnering practical knowledge.
 
 N Yadaiah, convener of TS Eamcet 2017, said another reason could be that most of the questions are concept based. “We made sure that most of the questions are concept-related. I feel that instead of trying to force students to memorise concepts or pressurise them to follow a format, they should be given enough space to understand the concept, which in turn will help them excel in an exam, irrespective of the gender.”
 
 Parents of students said freedom is another factor that gives boys an advantage. “Knowingly or unknowingly, we restrict our girls and clip their wings, which gives them less exposure to the practical world. Not limited by this, boys tend to be outgoing and exploratory. Over a period of time, their logical and reasoning skills improve, giving them an edge in competitive exams,” said Sagar M, whose kids are studying in the eleventh and eighth standard.
 
 Another parent, N  , whose daughter secured eighth rank in the agriculture and pharmacy stream, said: “From what I have seen, it might be true that girls are lagging behind boys a bit when it comes to competitive exams. My daughter is good at botany and zoology, but when it comes to physics she struggles a bit.”
 
