COIMBATORE: After A  , it is now the turn of his predecessor,  , to be brought under the scanner of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC). Vigilance has found Rs 11.25 crore worth disproportionate assets with   and has sought details of his income from   during his three-year term as  .

 A letter dated May 26, 2017 from the inspector of police, vigilance and anti-corruption, Chennai, C Sasikala, to the registrar of Bharathiar University has sought details of “monthly pay and remuneration of James Pitchai for the period while he was holding the post of vice-chancellor. The details of property acquired by James Pitchai during this period in his name and in the name of his blood relatives.”
 
 Following this letter, vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University A Ganapathi ordered registrar-in-charge B Vanitha to direct the finance department of the university to cull out details of James Pitchai’s income and remuneration during his tenure as VC. A copy of the letter (dated June 16, 2017) from Vanitha directing the finance department is in the possession of TOI.
 
 Following this, the finance section of the university submitted details of Pitchai’s income on June 20 to the university registrar. A copy of the details of Pitchai’s income too is with TOI. This eight-page document reveals that Pitchai earned Rs 57,36,667 during his three years as VC. 
 
 This raises questions about assets (movable and immovable) worth Rs 11.25crore acquired by Pitchai during this period. Sources in the university, aware of the developments, said Pitchai had purchased land in Gudalur with the income he earned through “illegal means” while serving as the university VC.
 
 TOI has details of the scams involving Pitchai during his stint in the university. The audit report of 2013-14 alone showed that Pitchai had been accused of misappropriation of Rs 5.75crores of university funds. “This is an indication that a similar proportion of money or more could have been swindled in the next two years. One should wait for the audit reports to see the exact amount,” said a former professor of the university. 
 
 From appointing temporary staff to purchasing vessels for the university hostel, Pitchai has been accused of swindling money. Pitchai’s inflated bills worth Rs 1.3lakhs threw light to his activities.
 
  Soon details of Pitchai’s misappropriation while purchasing clothes for staff as Diwali gift, the vessels scam, his car purchase, tenders for setting street light, tenders for printing books and question papers, tenders for purchasing laptops, LCD projectors and printers; purchase of tractor and many more surfaced. 
 
