
  recently started an initiative to raise awareness about the repercussions of underage driving, drunk driving and the risks involved in clicking selfies on the roads. The drive that kicked off on 
  and will continue till the first week of October, has already been conducted at various colleges and schools of Bareilly, including Maharaja Agrasen Mahavidyalaya, Suraj Bhan Girls Inter College, Islamia Girls Inter College and several others. 
 'the aim is to sensitise about road safety'
 Kamlesh Bahadur,  , who initiated the drive, says, "Irresponsible usage of mobile phones and clicking selfies on roads is one of the major causes for road accidents. So, we are forming groups of students to sensitize people about responsible usage of mobile phones on roads.”
 Bahadur adds, "We have already issued letters to schools and colleges across the city and have urged them to support this traffic awareness campaign. We are showing them newspaper clippings and CCTV grabs of the accidents that have occurred due to road negligence. We plan to show these videos to the commuters on a regular basis to apprise them of the risks involved in clicking selfies on the road."
 
 Achal Kumar Mishra,   (DIOS), adds, "Youngsters often indulge in posing at dangerous spots, for instance, in the middle of the roads, river banks, railway tracks, over-bridge or flyovers. This drive is to make school and college students aware of traffic regulations and the risks of taking selfies on roads."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Traffic inspector GM Asthana, who is organizing different activities in schools and colleges across the city as part of the drive, says, "We have held awareness sessions in over 15 schools and colleges across the city so far. We are also cracking a whip on traffic violators who are found drunk driving, underage drivers and youngsters driving without helmets. We are regularly issuing challans, seizing vehicles and suspending licenses of traffic violators, depending upon the nature of the offense."
 Asthana adds, "Our team of ASIs (Assistant Sub-inspector), TSIs (traffic sub inspector) and HCPs (head constable promoter) have already conducted surprise inspections at several locations like DD Puram, Chauki Chowraha, Civil Lines, Rajendra Nagar and Ayub Khan Chauraha. Recently, during one such surprise inspection, we caught a bus driver drunk-driving while ferrying 24 students."
 
 
 
 
 An awareness drive was recently conducted at   in the city. Dr Iqrar Ahmed Khan, in-charge of the drive at the college, shares, "The traffic police interacted with our students and staff and sensitised them about the road safety via slides, video presentations and CCTV clippings of road accidents."
 Gurmeet Singh, faculty of commerce at Suraj Bhan Girls Inter college and one of the organisers of the drive, says, “During the drive, the traffic police department urged students to wear helmets and fasten seat belts while driving and avoid drunk driving and avoid using mobile phones and over-speeding."
 
