GURGAON: Monkeys have returned to South City 1 with a vengeance, nearly a month after many of them were flushed out by professional   catchers. 

 Currently a large group of monkeys has invaded residential plots and is vandalising property and harming residents.
 
 Last month, a private  ,  , contracted by MCG to catch the monkeys from Gurgaon, had conducted a drive against the monkeys in the South City 1, and whisked away as many as 20 of them. But residents alleged that the monkey catchers left the drive halfway through resulting in the monkeys returning after a gap of about 20- 25 days.
 
 “This is getting worse by the day,” said Shivani Singh, a resident in A Block. 
 
 Singh said, “I have some small chicks at my home. Last week when I had gone to Delhi for a day and returned in the evening, I found two of them had died because monkeys attacked them.”
 
 Singh said two days ago monkeys even tried to attack her. “I had gone out in the morning when two of them lunged at me. I just slipped back into my home in the nick of time. Otherwise they would have mauled me,” she said.
 
 Aryan Choudhary of Wildlife Care India told TOI that the monkey catchers had only stopped the drive temporarily. “We will be back in South City in about a week,” he said.
 
 Explaining how the NGO goes about its job, Choudhary said, “When we carry out a drive for some days, monkeys are intelligent enough to recognise us. They flee and gesture to fellow monkeys to not come near us. We then put the drive on hold and return after a long time when they are not expecting us.”
 
 Choudhary said that there were some problems hindering his team’s job. “Some residents don’t allow us to enter their homes. Monkeys are always on the move. They will not stay at one place and wait for us to catch them. We need to chase them. Secondly, while some residents complain to us about the monkey problem and want us to catch them, some others ask us to be “lenient” towards them. They say we should refrain from ‘animal cruelty’.”
 
 He made it clear that the monkeys are caught using bananas as the bait and after catching them they are released into forests.
 
 Choudhary said his team had been awarded the contract by MCG in January. “Since then, we have caught over 500 monkeys from areas such as Basai, Gadoli, Sohna Road, Badshapur, Sector 15, Section 31, Sushant Lok 1 and Old railway station.
 
 
