MUMBAI: The state government have taken an initiative to encourage use of bicycle by intending to create cycle track through ‘streets with cycle track’ project starting from smaller cities instead of congested city like Mumbai.

 The pilot project ‘streets with cycle track’ will be implemented in 10 cities across the state such as Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Kolhapur, Solapur, Chandrapur, Latur, Aurangabad, Amaravati and Jalgaon.
 
 “Although the Mumbai has not been the part of pilot project due to traffic congestion issue however Navi Mumbai could be. The department is considering to execute ‘streets with cycle track’ project in Navi Mumbai near proposed airport or it could be part of Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (NAINA) project,” said a senior official from Mantralaya.
 
 He also said that the cycle track project may be a part of Mumbai’s coastal road and be executed on new roads coming up. “The department may consider to include cycle track on Mumbai’s ambitious coastal road project only after checking its feasibility and viability. Also the   may ask   and   to include cycle track in the plan of proposed new road construction,” he added.
 
 It should be noted that the MMRDA in 2011 had constructed a cycle track in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) at the cost of Rs 6.5 crore was completely failed and converted into bus lane in 2014. An official said that the decision of developing cycle track in   was wrong instead it would be successful if could have been somewhere near Shivaji Park.
 
 The state public works department (PWD) has issued government resolution in this regard. ‘People don’t use bicycle because of safety reason because there were no cycle track to ride. In smaller cities, most people works within 7-8 kilo metre vicinity like MIDC which normally located 7-8 km outskirt of the city can use cycle if tracks are available. This would also help to reduce road traffic and air pollution level as well,’ stated GR.
 
 To plan and execute ‘streets with cycle track’ project in 10 cities, state has set up a four committee led by   (Traffic) while PWD secretary will work as member secretary of a committee.
 
