Many residents who had their voter ID cards and have cast their votes in the past complained on Saturday that their names were missing from the voters’ list in Noida, Greater   and in some parts of  . They had to go back without casting their votes.

 When contacted, sub-divisional magistrate Amit Kumar said the election department revises voters’ lists annually between October and January. “The BLOs visit the voters’ houses to verify their addresses and credentials. If the voters are not found at their residence, then they are sent notices. Their names are removed only if the notices are ignored,” Kumar said.
 
 The areas in question include sectors 19, 22, 26, 27, 35, 37, 46, 51 and 52 in Noida, and Jewar, Bilaspur in Dadri, and sectors Alpha 1 and Gamma II in Greater Noida. While many found their names missing from the list despite having been residents of the area or sector for two decades, the rest found members of the same family being allotted different polling centres.
 
 Manohar Sethi and wife Veena Sethi of D-153 and S K Verma and wife Usha Verma of D-61, Sector 27, have been residents of the sector for over 25 years. But on Saturday they could not cast their votes despite having voter ID cards and also having cast their votes in earlier elections in the past. Their names were missing from the voters’ list of the sector.
 
 Rajiv Garg Sector 27 RWA general secretary, said the RWA of the sector had requested the city magistrate to create block-wise lists but the final list had a lot of duplication.
 
 In Greater Noida, urban voters were surprised at their names missing from the lists despite their having voter ID cards. According to Alok Singh, founder of Active Citizens Group Greater Noida, out of the nine polling booths at St Joseph’s School in Sector Alpha 1, “nearly 11,000 people voted in the sector. But about 1,000 voters could not find their names on the list,” Singh said.
 
 In Jewar and Dadri constituencies, the issues reported by hundreds of residents included voters’ names missing on the list, doubling-tripling of a single name on the list, male photograph against a female voter’s name, and discrepancies between lists of the BLO and the party. In Indirapuram six members of a family did not find their names on the electoral rolls. “Only one family member’s name was found whereas we had voted in 2012 and 2014,” said D D Agarwal, RWA president of Niti Khand 2. Mukesh Pradhan, a resident of Sector 10, Raj Nagar, said, “My wife’s name was there on the list in 2014, but it’s missing now.”
 
 With inputs from Ayaskant Das, Arsh Behal & Shikha Salaria
 
 
