NEW DELHI: Security forces on Thursday gunned down Abu Musaib alias Tahir, nephew of 26/11 mastermind and operational commander of all India operations of the Lashkar-e-Taiba,  , in an encounter in North Kashmir. Officials say that Musaib had planned the attack on the CRPF post in Nowhatta Chowk on August 15 last year in which Commandant Pramod Kumar was killed. 

 Officials say that Musaib had revived  's activities in the region for the past few years and he was acting on the direct command of Lakhvi and other top leaders of the terror outfit based in Pakistan. "He arranged the funds, arms and ammunitions and orchestrated violent protests, snatching of arms of security forces and carrying out attacks on the troops. We were on the look out for him for a long time," said an officer. 
 
  Musaib, a resident of Pakistan, was divisional commander of LeT in Bandipora and Ganderbal areas since August 2015 and was involved in many terrorism-related activities which included weapon snatching of an army jawan of 14-Rashtriya Rifles in Bandipora In October 2015. 
 
  When contacted, IG operations CRPF Zulfikar Hassan said, "During a joint operation with all the forces, Musaib, a dreaded terrorist was killed early morning on Thursday. He was the mastermind of terror attack on CRPF men during Independence Day 2016 in which our Commandant was martyred." 
 
 Other than the August 15 attack, which happened during the protests in the valley post Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist  's killing, Musaib was also involved in killing and weapon snatching of one Army jawan of 14 RR in October 2015, attack on a civilian last year and another attack on Army personnel.
 
 "An information was received about the presence of militants in Parray Mohallah, Hajin locality of Bandipora district. SOG Sumbal along with 13 Rashtriya Rifles and 45 battalion of CRPF cordoned off area and launched the search operation. The information was received at 12.30 am on Thursday while operation was launched at 4 am. Cordon was laid out in three houses of Khosa Mohalla, Hajin. Three sides were covered by RR while approach side was covered by CRPF and SOG of J&K police," said an official.
 
 "On first light, around 6:30 am, an announcement was made for residents to vacate their houses. Meanwhile the presence of the terrorist was confirmed in an house to the extreme west. A warning was given for surrender, but he didn't do so and at 7:05 am, Musaib came out from the house and started firing indiscriminately. He tried to break the cordon on eastern side and fired at SOG. In retaliation CRPF and SOG fired back and neutralised the militant. In exchange of fire one JKP constable Vikash Sharma got a bullet injury in his leg and hand and was immediately evacuated to 92 Base Hospital, Army Srinagar via chopper," said the officer.
 
 The forces recovered one AK-56 rifle, 66 rounds, three magazines, one radio set, three grenades and matrix sheet from the encounter site.
 
 
