JAIPUR: With diabetes taking its toll on health of people, Ayurveda is also set to take giant steps in providing relief to such patients.

 An international conference on “scope and role of Ayurveda in the management of madhumeha (diabetes mellitus) and its complication” will be held in Jaipur from Sunday. It would conclude on Tuesday.
 
 Officials from AYUSH ministry, along with regional advisor   Dr   and president Indo-Swiss Ayurved Foundation will take part in the conference.
 
  Dr   said that the theme of the seminar is diabetes. The ministry of AYUSH set the theme on diabetes as its cases are continuously on the rise.
 
 According to recently released annual health survey, in the state, 9.5% of population above 18 years, have blood sugar level equal to or greater than 110mg/dl. Besides, 3.4% have blood sugar level equal to or greater than 130mg/dl and 1.7% population is that having equal to or greater than 150mg/dl blood sugar level. 
 
 Dr Sharma said that in the three-day seminar, 540 papers will be presented, majority of them are on diabetes. Besides, 1,200 delegates have already sent their consent to take part in the international conference. Besides, there are 100 foreign delegates from America, Switzerland and nine other countries having interest in Ayurvada would also attend the seminar. 
 
 National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) spokesperson Dr CR Yadav said that the conference will be beneficial for those suffering from diabetes. Also, an exhibition would also be inaugurated, which will show how diabetes can be prevented.
 
 At present, NIA’s focus is on diabetes and its control. Recently, it has celebrated the first National Ayurveda Day with the theme, Ayurveda for Prevention and Control of Diabetes.
 
 The ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (Ayush), recently, announced its decision to observe Dhanvantari Jayanti, popularly known as Dhanteras, as National Ayurveda Day every year. Since Dhanteras had fallen on October 28, the first National Ayurveda Day had observed on that day.
 
 NIA officials said that they had selected diabetes as the theme as it's an emerging challenge and more people are becoming victims of the disease. 
 
