MUMBAI: In an alarming coincidence, a similar stampede-like situation unfolded at Mumbai’s   station on Friday at the same time as the tragedy at   station. Officials say they are saved by a miracle every day, especially during   when lakhs of commuters travel to pandals in nearby  .

 Chinchpokli is one of the smallest stations in Mumbai area-wise, but its commuter base has expanded steadily. It is two stations from Parel.
 
 A railway official at Chinchpokli said, “A heavy downpour began around 11am, prompting commuters and passersby to crowd the small space near the ticket counter and the slope leading to the platform. The area barely measures 150-200 sq ft. People were getting restive as the trains kept arriving and they were stuck. We were alarmed and quickly called for the GRP and   forces to rush to the site. They hastened to the station, blew whistles and raised their batons in the air to restore order amid the chaos.”
 
 This station is doubly dangerous because it does not even have a staircase leading to the platform. A sheer slope occupied by beggars on one side is the sole access. A single misstep or shove can cause crowds to fall headlong over one another.
 
 “We do not even have a full fledged station master. There is a sole clerk, and in his absence, the employee at the ticket window is in charge. If an accident occurs he must close the counter, rush to the site, call for an ambulance, RPF or GRP and police,” said the harried staff member. “Imagine how furious commuters get when accident victims lay unattended or when the ticket booking counter is closed. We bear the brunt of their fury.”
 
 Another railway staffer said, “It is not as if the authorities are unaware of the problems. They have been promising an overhaul since so long. If and when it will take place is anybody’s guess.”
 
 A senior woman officer from the Railways’ Coaching department surveyed Chinchpokli a few days before Ganeshotsav. No announcement has been made on the outcome. Railway staffers say piecemeal repair is of no use. The entire station will have to be rebuilt. The station in charge’s office is also a small British era cubbyhole with no facilities.
 
 The official said, “We cross our fingers each time Ganeshotsav comes around. There are three major pandals including Lalbaugcha Raja, Ganesh Gully and Tejukaya in Lalbaug so lakhs of people commute via Chinchpokli.
 
 And it is always the monsoon season.” Union leaders have reportedly made multiple representations to the railway authorities but have received no reply.
 
 
