PUNE: A 34-year-old businessman used a honey trap to get a vada   arrested for stealing his smartphone and using the Paytm wallet to transfer money from his account.

  (24) landed in the police net after Avinash Gavali (34) from Vadgaonsheri, who was chatting with him posing as a woman, called him to a restaurant at Kharadi on Friday night. A magisterial court on Saturday sent Shezad in police remand till July 17.
 
 On the night of June 14, Gavali — running a fitness centre in Kharadi — had visited a crowded sweet mart for purchasing sweets. The suspect present there allegedly stole his phone worth Rs25,000 from the back-pocket of his trousers when he was busy paying the bill. Shezad switched off the phone after removing the SIM card.
 
 Around 12.30am on June 15, Shezad switched on the phone and discovered there was Rs14,496 balance in Gavali’s Paytm account. He transferred the money to his Paytm wallet and subsequently transferred it to his bank account.
 
 On finding the phone and the money missing, Gavali called a Paytm call centre. He was told that the money was transferred in another wallet. They then gave him two phone numbers of the suspect.
 
 Gavali told TOI on Saturday, “I used a true caller app to ascertain the identity of the two numbers, but I found the fraudster had switched off one number and the second was his WhatsApp number. I then posted a photograph of a woman as display picture on my WhatsApp and started chatting with him.”
 
 He said, “The suspect soon got friendly with me and started exchanging messages. I chatted with him for over 15 days. Then I won his confidence and asked him to meet me at a restaurant in Kharadi on Friday evening.”
 
 Gavali said, “After the timing of our meeting was confirmed, I passed on the information to the Chandannagar police. The suspect came well-dressed hoping to meet a pretty woman. But he was taken into custody after he walked into the restaurant and taken to the police station for interrogation,” Gavali added.
 
 A police official said Shezad confessed to his involvement in the crime during interrogation, following which he was arrested around 10.30pm on Friday.
 
 Chandannagar police senior inspector Rajendra Mulik produced Shezad before first class judicial magistrate  , seeking seven-day police custody. Assistant public prosecutor Waman Koli told the court that the custodial interrogation of the suspect was essential for recovering the phone and cash as well as for find outing if any other person was involved in the crime. The court sent him in police remand for two days.
 
 
