GOA: With the possibility of a fractured mandate in assembly elections, the governor’s office will be in the limelight after March 11, as the debate on who should be allowed to form the government is likely to dominate the post-result scenario.

 The practice of calling the single largest party to form the government has gained ground as a tradition in India. But contrary to popular perception, the governor doesn’t have to call upon a party with the highest votes first to try and form the government. But her decision has to be an “informed decision”, constitutional and legal experts said.
 
 But before calling a party that may be second highest in votes polled, the governor would have to be satisfied that such party has the necessary outside support to claim majority.
 
 “The governor need not call upon the party with the single largest votes, but can call the one which she believes holds the majority to demonstrate confidence on floor of the House,” said former advocate general of Maharashtra Shrihari Aney.
 
 “The normal system is to ask the leader of the party with highest votes if he can form the government, but if someone else comes forward saying he has enough support to form the government, the governor on being satisfied about such claim, can then ask him to form the government instead. The crucial factor is the satisfaction of the governor,” said Chennai-based senior counsel C A Sundaram.
 
 It need not be the leader of the single largest party, if the person cannot mobilise the required numbers and if another alternative has the majority, said Prabhakar Timble, former state   commissioner.
 
 “It is also a convention that if the former ruling party is voted out at elections, the leader of the single largest opposition party or a coalition is invited at the first instance to form the government and face the floor test,” he said.
 
 Another former advocate general Sunil Manohar said the governor cannot base his or her decision on a ‘mere surmise or conjecture’, but on material that may include signed undertakings from independents or elected representatives of other small parties, or “even if such elected representatives meet the governor to express their outside support for the party”.
 
 She will, essentially, have to prima facie satisfy herself of which political group has the necessary numbers or strength to prove its confidence, said Manohar.
 
 Poll analysts have decried the tradition of calling the single largest party for government formation as the Raj Bhavan is turned into a platform for manipulation and horse trading. The more idealistic viewpoint that the party which loses the people’s mandate but still ends up as the single largest party cannot be extended the invitation for government formation has largely remained in the intellectual domain.
 
 “To my mind, if the ruling party loses majority, the opposition must get the first shot at forming the government. But for this principle to develop, it is imperative that there is a consensus. Now that coalition politics is here to stay firm, rules must be in place so that governors do not get the opportunity to manipulate the mandate,”  , former judge and poll analyst, said.
 
 “Some party is bound to make a bid to form the government. Once a party feels it has put together the numbers, it may literally rush to the governor with a bid to form the government. But the governor doesn’t have to necessarily ask the party who rushed first,” said Manohar.
 
 The governor has to “apply her mind’’ before calling a party to form the government. Such party should be able to demonstrate that it would have the confidence of the house. Such demonstration usually is done within seven to 15 days after forming the government. The show of strength, can be via methods that may include a floor test, as was done in 2014 in Maharashtra—challenged unsuccessfully in the Bombay high court—or show of hands to prove the confidence.
 
 
