Amritsar: Sikh leaders, who had played an active role in organizing ‘Sarbat Khalsa’ in November 2015, have reached Delhi to canvass against SAD nominees and help candidates of Congress-backed SAD (Delhi) in Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections.

 Talking to TOI on Tuesday, president of United Akali Dal (UAD) Mohkam Singh, who was among key organizers of ‘Sarbat Khalsa’, said leaders of his party were camping in Delhi on their own to inform the Sikh voters about the alleged failure of the SAD-led Punjab government in nabbing the culprits of incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib.
 
 Mohkam and other Sikh leaders –– Wassan Singh, Satnam Singh Manawan, Purshotam Singh Ggguwal and Bahadur Singh –– have reached Delhi to campaign against SAD candidates.
 
 “We will extend support and help candidates fielded by SAD (Delhi),” he said, adding that, “It’s not only in Punjab or Delhi, but my party members would oppose Akalis wherever they would contest elections in future.”
 
 “We don’t have any personal conflict with Badals, but it is a matter of honour of Guru Granth Sahib,” he said. Mohkam said it was unfortunate that Sikhs who staged demonstrations demanding arrest of culprits of blasphemy were slapped cases of treason and were put behind bars.
 
 Asked how the leaders of UAD were canvassing for SAD (Delhi) candidates, he said, “We are telling people how the youths of Punjab are being made drug addicts due to government’s failure and how religious bodies are being used for political interests by Akalis.”
 
 He claimed that Sikhs of Delhi were surprised to know how the Akalis had allegedly misused political power for achieving their political goals.
 
 Meanwhile, DSGMC general secretary Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is also adviser to Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, said the DSGMC elections were not political, but for the representatives who would manage Sikh gurdwaras and other institutions as per Sikh rehat maryada (code of religious conduct). Sirsa, who is contesting DSGMC elections from Punjabi Bagh, claimed of carrying out various developmental and beautification works during their tenure besides propagation of Sikhism in Delhi.
 
 
