PATNA: The   has complained of   and resultant   of   in Bihar since the enforcement of   in the state since April last year.

 “It’s such a precarious situation that excise officers and employees do not get leave easily,” association president Krishna Kumar said on Monday.
 
 Referring to alleged dangerous stress level of the excise staff, Kumar cited the case of Sasaram’s assistant excise commissioner Maheshwar Dutt Mishra (50), who expired during the treatment for brain haemorrhage on May 4 .
 
 Known as a “raid master” among colleagues, Dutt had joined the excise service as an inspector in 1997-1998 after clearing Bihar Public Service Commission examination.
 
 His younger brother, Vishambhar Dutt Mishra (40), told TOI over phone his brother felt unwell while working in office on April 28. “His colleagues told me that he complained of pain in the left side of his head and his limbs turning senseless while giving dictation to a subordinate. He then vomited and lost consciousness,” Vishambhar said, adding he rushed to Sasaram from Pathar village in Bhojpur district and brought him to Patna for treatment.
 
 According to Vishambhar, Maheshwar’s condition deteriorated after which he was flown to Gurugram by an air ambulance on May 1, but he died on May 4. “My brother did not suffer from any health complication,” Vishmabhar said and added he is survived by wife and two sons who live in Patna.
 
 Sources said Maheshwar fell ill soon after a state level videoconferencing with senior officials at which directives were issued to expedite the process for issuing licences for ‘neera’.
 
 The association also cited the case of excise SI Chandradev Prasad (46) who along with five others in Kaimur was dismissed from service on May 25 last year on graft charges. Chandradev died in his native Khagaria district on the day he came out of jail on bail. He and his colleagues were accused of extorting money from a Punjab trader after planting liquor bottles in his car.
 
 Chandradev’s wife Sarita Devi told this reporter over phone that her husband was sent to jail after he surrendered. He returned home on November 13 last year. “After midnight, he complained of restlessness and chest pain. He was taken to the sadar hospital where doctors asked me to take him to a hospital with ICU facility,” she recalled, adding as she went out to hire an ambulance, her husband died on the hospital bed.
 
 A block-level contractual teacher in Alauli block, Sarita said her husband had never had any health issue. “He apparently could not withstand the shock of being jailed,” she said and added she has petitioned the Patna high court for a proper probe into the graft charge against him and also for compensation and other benefits to the family which includes their nine-year-old daughter and six-year-old son.
 
 
