Celestial phenomena have never ceased to fascinate mankind. Be it a meteor shower or the formation of a rainbow after a storm — these astronomical events always trigger curiosity, leading to intriguing discoveries. Bitten by the bug to unravel the mysteries of nature, Bengaluru-based   and documentary filmmaker  , together with his teammates Ashwini Kumar Bhat and Anil Kumar Ranganatha, captured images of a lunar rainbow, called the  , at  , near Sirsi in   district. Produced by moonlight, there are, apparently, only five known waterfalls in the world that are congenial for the formation of a lunar rainbow — with three of them being in the US and one each in Africa and Europe.

  “Until November 2016, the phenomenon was not documented anywhere in Asia. The formation of a moonbow is a rare and unique event that happens at night and cannot actually be identified through naked eyes,” says Sriharsha, whose photographers’ collective, called Landscape Wizards, is set to launch the footage on the spotting of moonbows in India as part of their upcoming documentary on the beauty and diversity of river Aghanashini. It is slated to be screened at an annual event, called Confluence 2017, next month. 
 
  “The areas in and around Unchalli Falls are protected spots. Thus, we were refrained from setting up a camp at the very location from where the moonbow could be captured in frame. So in order to freeze the phenomenon, we stationed our equipment there and trekked back to our stay downhill. The camera kept rolling the entire night, clicking some 600-odd images in time-lapse mode. It was, in fact, a euphoric moment to filter through the pictures on a big screen later and find the faint moonbow captured in a few of them. Apart from being passionate and making all the preparations required to go about such expeditions, one needs to remain patient and focused until the mission is accomplished. We managed to get these pictures only after 3-4 years of failed attempts, examining numerous waterfalls across the country to find a moonbow-favouring one,” explains Sriharsha, who has been into photography for nearly a decade.
 
  Among the factors that determine the occurrence of a lunar rainbow at a waterfall include a bright full moon, the amount of spray mist generated from the waterfall, as well as its alignment. Unchalli scored high in all these three parameters. “A total of four cameras were placed at multiple locations to frame the celestial wonder, but only one camera succeeded in capturing the moonbow. Even a small difference in the camera location and framing was enough to miss the moonbow,” he adds. While carrying out the project, the team faced a number of weather-related challenges, including a cyclone that forced the members to abandon a shoot; high atmospheric haze that disrupted the viewing conditions; as well as a bad cloud cover that reduced the availability of light. About funding, “Most of the money is pulled out from our day jobs, while we also conduct photography workshops from time to time and sell prints of our pictures to earn some extra cash to help fund such trips,” the landscape photographer sums up.
 
  
 
 
  
  focusses on the occurrence of meteor showers in India
 
  
  showcases the rain-drenched glowing forests in the Western Ghats
 
  
  sheds light on the beautiful caves in Cherrapunjee, Meghalaya
 
  
  is about the strange natural phenomenon, called 
  or ghost flames, in Banni Grasslands Reserve, Gujarat
 
  
 
 
