MUMBAI: Fireman  , who suffered severe burn injuries while rescuing a bird hanging close to high-voltage overhead wires near Mahalaxmi station last month, died early on Sunday at National Burns Centre, Airoli.

 On December 10, Bhojne, Sanjay Kalbhere, Dinesh Sabankar of Byculla fire station went to attend a bird rescue call near Mahalaxmi station.
 
 The kite, entangled in manjha, was hanging from a tree branch close to the high-tension overhead wires. The firemen went to the first floor of a ground-plus-one structure close to the spot. Bhojane used a telescopic stick that is used for bird rescue operations. When he was trying to rescue the bird, the stick came very close to the overhead wires and the three firemen suffered severe burns as electricity passed through the stick. A local standing 5ft away too suffered burns.
 
 Bhojne, who had suffered about 50% burns on his hands and chest, needed a tracheotomy (incision on the windpipe to help breathing) as soon as he was admitted to the centre. His condition continued to deteriorate last week, said doctors. The other two injured firemen are still recuperating at the centre.
 
 While Bhojne's widow and two daughters--aged two and one--are still in shock, his relatives and firemen's union demanded that he be declared a martyr. On Sunday , they refused to claim his body for last ri tes after the guard of honour was held at fire brigade headquarters in Byculla. They agreed to claim the body only after police intervened. Family members of a fire officer declared martyr are entitled for higher pension and other financial benefits, in addition to a house.
 
 “We will probe the incident and expedite the process to provide all compensation and benefit mentioned in the manual to Bhojne's family ,“ said chief fire officer P Rahangdale. “Union members tried to create problem after the guard of honour for political reasons. I will not tolerate this. I will take up the issue with higher authorities.“
 
 After the 2015 Kalbadevi fire, which had claimed chief fire officer   and three other fire officers, a panel had suggested to keep firemen away from non-fire activities, like rescuing birds or drowning incidents. But, till date, no decision has been taken.
 
