PUNE: In the third instance of its kind in as many days, three undertrial prisoners   of an escort team of the   while they were being brought back to Yerawada Central Jail from a court in Khandala in the neighbouring district of Satara on Monday night.

 Raja Patre, Santosh Jatgap, both from Pimpri, and Santosh Chandilkar of Lavale in Mulshi, stopped at Katraj ghat section to relieve themselves. They pushed the policemen standing on guard behind them and slipped into the woods in the darkness. 
 
 The escort team searched the ghat section and checked Katraj bus stand before lodging a complaint with the   police station.
 
 Monday’s   comes as another embarrassment for the Pune police. A murder suspect had escaped from the Khadki police station in the early hours of Sunday. A similar act was carried out by another suspect in a criminal intimidation case from the Erandwane police chowkey on Saturday night. 
 
 An inquiry has been initiated against the escort team comprising four police constables attached to Pune police headquarters by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters).
 
 Khandala police had arrested Patre, Jagtap and Chandilkar in 2013 for robbery and common motive. The case was to be heard on Monday before the judicial magistrate first-class in Khandala. 
 
 The escort team, led by police constable Sanjay Chandanshiv, police naiks S V Kokare, S K Khade along with armed guard V A Mandhare picked up the   from Yerawada around 11.30am on Monday to produce them in the court. 
 
 The police van reached the court in Khandala around 2pm. After the court proceedings, they started back for Pune around 5.30pm.
 
 The undertrails and police constables and the armed guard sat on the back seat of the van, while Chandanshiv was at the front with the driver. The van reached Katraj ghat around 7.30pm. 
 
 One of the policemen told Chandanshiv to stop the van as the undertrials wanted to relive themselves. He passed on the message to the driver to stop the van near the check post in Katraj ghat. 
 
 The trio and the policemen got down and stood behind them while they relieved themselves. All of a sudden, they pushed the policemen and fled into the jungle.
 
 “After searching for more than four hours, the team approached the Bharati Vidyapeeth police around 11.30pm and lodged a complaint,” an officer from the Pune police headquarters said.
 
 The Bharati Vidyapeeth police have registered an offence against the trio under sections 224 (resistance or obstruction of lawful apprehension) and 34 (common motive) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
