Two-time winner of TOI’s Lenten Tiatr Festival, 
  has not shied away from highlighting the gall of today’s youth towards their parents. His Lenten tiatr   (Learn to listen, listen to learn) recently staged near St Anthony Chapel, Colva, is based on the fourth Commandment ‘Respect Your Parents’. The plot touches on the pro-life stand of the Church.

 Xik Aikpak Aik Xikpak opens with a childless couple – Dolrich (played by Rosario de Benaulim) and Lavisha (Ophelia) who have been married for five years, praying for a child before the ‘Baradi cross’. Their prayers are soon answered and they are excited with their baby boy, Zico (Creto), who grows up and soon begins working. Zico falls in love with his colleague Vanessa (Crostina Baptista). 
 
 While his parents agree to get the couple married, Vanessa’s mother Cejila (Cinnet) has some reservations regarding the couple marrying. Vanessa’s father, Flamingo ( ), succeeds in convincing his wife to meet Zico’s family, breaking away from the tradition of the boy meeting the prospective bride’s family.
 
  
  
 
 During their visit, Lavisha suddenly takes ill so a doctor is summoned. When the doctor informs them that Lavisha is expecting, there is a major uproar in the family, with an embarrassed and enraged Cejila calling off her daughter’s marriage to Zico. Cejila forces Vanessa to tell Zico to convince Lavisha to have an abortion as a condition to her marriage.
 
 Zico, who is also very embarrassed by his mother’s late pregnancy, relays Cejila’s message to his parents but they firmly refuse to abort the child, whom they term as ‘God’s gift’. In a fit of annoyance, Zico leaves home and takes to the bottle resulting in him and his friend Rico (Lelwin alias Melwin Borges) meeting with an accident. During the course of Zico’s treatment, doctors diagnose him with blood cancer. After Zico’s legs are amputated, Vanessa informs him that she has decided to marry his friend Rico instead.
 
 The tale takes a dramatic twist when the doctor admits to Zico and his family of a mistake as the pathologist botched up the medical reports of the duo and it is Rico who is suffering from cancer. In the final scene, as Zico apologizes to his parents, director Cruz Pinto, who plays the role of a family friend, delivers a moral message to the audience.
 
 The comedy trio of Sandeep Ambe, Matheus (alias Selvy) Correia and Dorothy Camara tickles the audience’s funnybone. Among the musicians, young saxophonist Natasha Noronha stands out, with Sir Piety on the trumpet,   on drums, Jose Carvalho on keyboards and Jose Dias on bass.
 
 Besides, a trio sung by Evarist de Arambol, Joe de Dicarpaale and Creto on the vandalism of a crucifix, a comedy solo by Dorothy, solos by   and Melwin, as well as a duet by Ophelia and Seby de Divar are etched in the minds of the audience. While Mario and James took care of the stage settings, light effects were done by Sunny de Colva.
 
