COIMBATORE:  , who has been 
  , fits into two moulds that suit party general secretary 
  . He comes from the gounder community in the kongu belt – the region that has stood by the   for many years but feels neglected at not having been accommodated in the leadership. 

 Making him the chief minister would present a symbolic thevar-gounder alliance since she and her family are identified as a thevar clan. Further, Palaniswami is a   loyalist who has never attempted to carve a niche for himself and has been avid follower of her family. He may be the ideal choice given Sasikala's incarceration. 
  
 Palaniswami’s greatest challenge would be to put together a majority in the assembly and run the government over a sustained period of time. The Sasikala faction would try to isolate OPS and restrict his MLA numbers to ensure this. 
 
 Some AIADMK seniors, as well as the BJP at the Centre, however, want a broader rapprochement to bring the factions together, which may include a working arrangement with OPS too.
 
 Palaniswami is not known to be a uniting force — he has been unable to keep the flock together in his home base of Salem. And, he may go with the Sasikala strategy and have TTV Dinakaran and others work out the details.
  
 Palaniswami has been a strong Sasikala supporter for more than 15 years. By having a gounder chief minister, Sasikala has sought to weaken the hold of Panneerselvam who has been drawing MLAs from the kongu belt.
  
 The move to make Palaniswami the CM also nullifies allegations that Sasikala’s family wants to grab party posts as well as the CM’s seat. Yet, at the end of the day, Palaniswami is likely to be only a titular head.
  
 Palaniswami owes his political beginnings and career growth to the Sasikala family. He was inducted into the good books of Sasikala through her brother’s son-in-law R P Ravanan. Among the top five ministers in Jayalalithaa’s cabinet, when former electricity minister Natham Viswanathan earned Jayalalithaa’s ire and was sidelined, Palaniswami rose to become No 2.
 
 He joined the AIADMK in 1983 and remained in the Jaya faction when the party split in 1989. That was the year he contested assembly elections for the first time and won. 
 
 “Though Palaniswami got defeated in 1996 assembly, 2004 Lok Sabha and 2006 assembly elections, he again got a ticket in 2011, thanks to Ravanan. But Sengottayan, another gounder leader, got sidelined by Amma in 2011 and it was a natural elevation for Palaniswami,’’ said another functionary.
  
 Palaniswami kept a low profile but his proximity to Sasikala and hence Jayalaithaa grew, and he was entrusted with looking after the party’s financial affairs. Corruption allegations have cropped up against Palaniswami but his unflinching loyalty to Ravanan and Sasikala kept his position intact. “From 2011 to 2016, Jaya shunted out several ministers, but Palaniswami held fort for five years,’’ noted a party leader.
 
 His growth was aided by the fact that there were no powerful competitors in the AIADMK from Salem and no tough challenger from DMK. That aided his victory in 2016 assembly election with a margin of more than 40,000 votes, in spite of his eroding credibility among the public.
 
