RANCHI: The self-sacrifice of a   jawan in Rajrappa's   on Tuesday morning has exposed the security lapses and lack of management on its premises. 

 Alhough the police termed the incident a suicide, the fact that the deceased carrying a sickle inside the temple premises went unnoticed, has alarmed the Ramgarh district administration. Police is now pushing for a structured management body for the shrine.
 
 Rajeshwari B, deputy commissioner (DC) of Ramgarh, told TOI the district administration has taken steps to constitute a   and to take charge of the temple. At present, the temple is looked after  , dominated by the Pandas (priest). 
 
 "We have been trying to come up with a temple management trust. Three rounds of discussions (with the Samiti) were held where we met with resistance," the DC said. The district administration, however, is holding its ground and going ahead with the decision. 
 
 The conceived trust, the DC said, will ensure the maintenance of the temple and improve facilities for devotees who visit throughout the year. "The incident shows it is high time we go ahead with the plan of setting up the trust," she said. 
 
 The decision to constitute a trust was floated by then Ramgarh DC, A Dodde, in 2016, to end the monopoly of the Pandas. According to sources in the temple, the Nyas Samiti gets its earnings from the offerings at the temple and dakshinas (donations) for conducting marriages and other rituals. A substantial sum of the temple's earnings is distributed among the Pandas and very little is kept aside for the temple's upkeep and other facilities, district officials said. 
 
 The new trust will be headed by the DC and will comprise five Pandas from the samiti. "We have sought names from the samiti for the trust but they have not given it to us," Rajeshwari said. 
 
 When contacted, the   refused to comment on the issue. 
 
 Besides setting up security measures such as metal detecting doors, adequate CCTV cameras and maintenance converting the place into a tourist spot is also on the anvil.
 
