Chennai: Former economics affairs secretary ShaktiKanta Das said demonetisation was a well-thought-out plan. 

 “Demonetisation was under discussion during budget talks of the previous year (April 2016). But at that time we decided against implementing it. We did adequate preparation before launching it. And we knew there would be some temporary impact, but by and large demonetisation attained its stated objectives.”
 
 The former government official also strongly defended the benefits of demonetisation. “There is no concrete evidence to say demonetisation had an effect on the economy. VAT collections were good, Central excise duty collections satisfactory. Overall state and central tax collections increased, showing that there was no downswing in the economy.”
 
 Hailing what the BJP government has done in the last three years since 2014, Das said the only comparably significant economic reforms were in 1991. “But the 1991 reform while significant was not uniform or sustained. It lost momentum over the years,” said Das, attributing the success of 1991 reform solely to Dr C Rangarajan’s efforts and not then finance minister Dr Manmohan Singh. 
 
 When questioned over the change in the goalposts/narrative of objectives of demonetisation, Das said, “We have never changed our objectives on demonetisation. We have consistently held that it is to fight black money, eradicate counterfeit notes and counter terrorism. What we said about distribution of wealth — where rich people with black money were forced to give large sums to their servants or employees for deposit — was said in a lighter vein. Though it is true that there were many such instances of people trying to distribute their wealth.”
 
 On whether the narrative has changed, “No government official ever spoke about Rs 4 lakh crore or Rs 1 lakh crore of black money not entering the system. I don’t know how this narrative was introduced by the media. As the government certainly did not give those numbers,” he said.
 
 On many parameters such as the fiscal deficit, current account deficit and inflation, the Indian economy has improved a lot in the last three years. “Post-demonetisation and with GST implementation, the parallel economy or black money will become minuscule. The Indian government will also have a lot more funds for utlization once more people come into the tax net. You can expect public infrastructure to grow in the next year from these measures.”
 
 
