Nagpur: Indian Army’s former Master General Ordnance (MGO), Lt General Ravi Thodge, has initiated a move to set up a   procurement assistance centre in the city. He has aligned with local business associations as well as Defence Industries Innovators Association (DIIA) to push the idea among businessmen of the region.

 Being MGO and also consultant for the ministry of defence, Thodge was involved in procurement process for the Army over decades.
 
 A meeting to put forth the idea was held on Wednesday, inviting members of the local industries’ associations. According to Thodge’s plans, the centre will act as a facilitation link between defence forces, which are the users, and private industries.
 
 A similar centre has already been established by Thodge at Belgaum. The centre here will be supported by the ministry of defence, which will help industries understand the requirements of the armed forces as well as the paramilitary, said Dushyant Deshpande, DIIA’s coordinator for Maharashtra and Goa.
 
 He said the process for getting approvals from ministry of defence to ensure its support will be initiated soon. Once the centre is functional, members will get links of all defence related tenders apart from information related to other requirements, said Deshpande.
 
 “The whole idea is to bring the users and industry together. Apart from defence, there are plans to have a cluster for automotive industry too. We will be providing a platform to the industries to initiate supplies to the defence and automotive sectors,” Thodge told TOI during the function on Wednesday.
 
 The whole set up will entail an investment of nearly Rs80 crore. The centre will be headed by Thodge, added Deshpande.
 
 The investment will come in phases. The first phase will have a skill development centre for technical graduates. This will be set up in collaboration with Tata Technologies, which will provide training. It aims to bridge the gap in know-how between what is taught in academic institutions and requirement of industries. The skill development centre is being planned at Mihan, said Deshpande
 
 The next phase will have a common testing and tooling facility for members. Finally, the defence procurement assistance centre will be set up. It will have plug and play facilities for start ups to develop and test their products. The funds will be raised through members’ contribution, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, there are plans to start the facilitation centre by December, which can train around 6,000 students a year.
 
 
