NAGPUR: It is just not the major political parties, but also big parties with limited presence in Nagpur, who have jumped into fray for the Nagpur Municipal Corporation elections.

 Parties such as the  , Shiv Sena, NCP etc — who hope to capitalize on the infighting or friction within established alliance partners by fielding renegade cadres of either the Congress or BJP — have the potential to make or mar the prospects of political biggies as even a small margin of votes could make a big difference. Besides an overwhelming number of independent contestants, all parties have fielded a high number of candidates this time for the 151-member NMC House.
 
 Many in the BSP wonder whether the party will be able to perform like it did during the 2012 polls. This time though the party has fielded 103 candidates. Rebels are likely to trouble the party’s chances to increase its present strength of 12 corporators. However, the BSP is still in a position to create problems for the ruling BJP as it targets the traditional Maharashtrian vote bank.
 
 The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) -- a new entrant into the NMC polls — is eyeing Muslim votes which may translate into trouble for the Congress. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, who addressed a rally at Tipu Sultan Chowk in Yashodhara Nagar seeking support for its 19 candidates, pointed out that the Congress fears that AIMIM would divide Muslim votes.
 
 For the first time, Shiv Sena too fielded 85 candidates. City Shiv Sena President Satish Harde had told TOI in an interview last week that the BJP used Shiv Sena as and when it wanted. “As the BJP never gave us more seats, we never got an opportunity to field more than 15 candidates in civic polls. It is good we are going alone,” Harde had said. The party has also held public rallies of MP Sanjay Raut and also organized a massive vehicle rally to showcase the party’s strength.
 
 After breaking alliance with Congress, Nationalist Congress Party has formed a grand alliance with 14 political parties to take on the BJP and Congress. City party chief and ex-Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh said the grand alliance, which has fielded 131 candidates, including 95 of NCP and People’s Republican Party, hopes to win at least 45 seats.
 
 Former union minister Praful Patel too addressed a few public rallies for their candidates. He also campaigned in Prabhag number 14 where NCP rebel and sitting corporator Pragati Patil is contesting on a BJP ticket.
 
 With the election campaign for the civic body polls in the city coming to an end on Sunday evening, all the candidates of these small parties and even independent candidates intensified their campaigning. 
 
