These students had completed   in BCom, BBM and BSc, received their  , and had even written the exams; but their results were never announced. When they questioned the  , they blamed it on   for delaying their results. But when they approached the varsity officials, they were informed they were never affiliated to BU.

 The case which was registered with Jnanabharathi police station on Saturday has brought out a disturbing possibility of BU officials being hand-in-glove with colleges which are taking students for a ride by “admitting” them by taking fees, but never actually admitting them – which leaves them unaffiliated to the University.
 
 Interestingly, BU decided to file a complaint against these students as their documents were found to be fake.
 
 But it took one gutsy girl student to expose the scam in which the college in Mallathalli she was admitted to, had taken her and 49 of her college-mates for a ride. It was she who investigated and found out about the scam. She spoke to her lecturers, the head of departments, and finally even to the college principal. But she could not find out why only her college’s results were not out.
 
 Finally, the girl went to Bangalore University -- just a few metres from her college in Mallathalli – and confronted the university’s administrative officials, handing them her hall ticket number to help her know her results.
 
 But she was shocked when the officials informed her that the university had not even permitted her and her college-mates to appear for the exams, although they had written the exams.
 
 BU officials said the students were given fake certificates. Bangalore Mirror had reported on March 14 how these students were cheated and a police complaint filed.
 
 It was then that she realised that her college had taken them for a ride by issuing them   and let them write exams by issuing fake hall tickets, claiming that they were issued by the university officials.
 
 Upset over the fact that the college had played with their lives by not only wasting a precious academic year but also by taking huge amounts as admission – which totalled to nearly a crore from all the students – the girl walked to the nearby Jnanabharathi police station and filed a complaint.
 
 The police who have taken up a case of cheating have registered a complaint against Shahnawaz, 60, and his three sons Mohammed Chand Shah, Mohammed Ismail and Mohammed Jaffer Sadik. Shah is the managing director of the institute. The complaint was registered on Saturday.
 
 The Jnanabharathi police arrested Sadik, 22, on Wednesday, while they are on the lookout for his father and two brothers.
 
 “Sadik has claimed that he did not know anything about the racket as his role was just to bring students for admission. The institution is said to have other branches at Bommanahalli, Nagawara, Ramnagar and the Mallathalli branch where the 50 students studied.
 
 “It was the student’s complaint that helped us expose the scam of the institution. Even the university officials have been informed about the scam. We suspect that there is somebody within the university who is helping the accused,” said an officer who is part of the investigations.
 
 However, sources in Bangalore University (BU) point to the possibility of a bigger racket. “How can a college function without the knowledge of the varsity officials? I think some varsity officials are very much hand-in-glove with them. The issue was widely discussed during BU’s recent syndicate meeting wherein the varsity was taken to task. The issue is not just limited to the fate of students, but also about the money involved. I think the college has minted a lot of money in the whole issue as each student would have paid a bomb to get admitted.”
 
 
