AGRA: Reigning   and two-time   racer   put up a scintillating performance in Round 4 of the Meco Motorsport   to secure his maiden victory in the ultra-competitive junior category in Bengaluru.

 Shahan, competing in the Junior Category in his rookie year, endured a trouble-riddled start to his weekend with a few mechanical gremlins costing him some performance during the free practice sessions. However, his MSport crew worked hard to sort out the issues overnight and eventually Shahan was able to recover and qualify third on Saturday.
 
 With two heats followed by pre-finals and finals, Shahan had to ensure that he was consistently at the sharp end of the grid to ensure a strong result in the finals, and he just did that. Shahan finished both heat races in second place, posting the fastest lap of the race in both races. Things were looking promising but there was still the pre-final and final to go.
 
 The 13-year old from Agra was slated to start the pre-final from the front row, and he managed to hold his advantage and eventually finished P3. Third place start was of strategic importance as it would enable Shahan to start on the inside for the finals - which is touted to better than starting second at this particular circuit layout.
 
 Things turned out brilliantly in the finals as Shahan made a rocket start and slotted himself into P2 on the first lap itself and then swiftly moved into the lead on the second lap itself, not allowing leader   to pull away.
 
 Aradhya, being a quick and experienced karter made Shahan work hard throughout the race, always on his tail, but the two-time Micro Max National Champion held his nerve and put in super consistent laptimes to take the chequered flag, eventually the pair finishing a little more than a half second apart.
 
 "It is an absolutely amazing feeling to win my first race in the junior category. We have had a few tough weekends so far in the nationals but everything eventually came together this time and we were able to get the best result", remarked an elated Shahan.
 
 "We were quickest throughout the weekend and were in the right place at the right time when it mattered in the finals. Everything was absolutely effortless", he added.
 
