NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: More than 200   are running without a   from the transport department in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad according to the official data from the transport department.

 Waking up to the danger of these school buses, most of which are running on CNG, the department has started a drive in G B Nagar after a school bus of Father Agnel School, Vaishali, caught fire due to a possible leakage in the LPG cylinder kept on board.
 
 The school bus caught fire on Tuesday afternoon and was gutted within minutes because of gas leaking from the LPG cylinder.
 
 Officials from the Ghaziabad transport department said that prima facie, the cause of fire in the bus engine appeared to be a short circuit.
 
 “Since the fire started slowly, it seems that the cause was a short circuit in the engine which led to sparking because of which the leaking gas caught fire,” said Mahesh Sharma, ARTO (enforcement) II, Ghaziabad. Moreover, the fire spread as the fibre used in the seats too caught fire. This is a clear violation of the CBSE guidelines for school buses issued on February 23 which say that the seats should be made of non-combustible material.
 
 While it did not claim lives, the accident exposes the lack of enforcement of the Supreme Court guidelines meant for the school buses.
 
 In the wake of the Etah accident of January, in which at least 25 people including 18 schoolchildren were killed and 50 injured as a school bus was hit by a truck, the transport department had carried out a three-day drive against the school buses which do not meet all the requirements as mandated by the Supreme Court and the CBSE.
 
 In a meeting with all ARTOs on February 18, additional transport commissioner V K Singh had also noted that despite the judiciary taking note of the road accidents and many notices issued by the department, there has been little action on the ground.
 
 Consider this: In June 2016, the number of school buses running without a valid fitness certificate in Gautam Budh Nagar was 156. The number remained the same even till February 2017.
 
 As of May 3, 2017, there are 151 buses which are running without a fitness certificate in the district, according to officials. In Ghaziabad too, at least 60 school buses are running without a fitness certificate, sources in the ARTO department, Ghaziabad, said.
 
 Rajesh Singh, ARTO (enforcement), G B Nagar, said the drive would be carried out against school buses flouting the Supreme Court guidelines for the next few days.
 
 
