Expectations are bound to go up when it’s a Mani Ratnam-AR   combination. And this time, it is even more special as it is the 25th year of collaboration of the duo. Fans have already registered three songs from the album, which were released as singles. But as for the rest? Here goes… 

 The album starts with a beautiful melody Nallai Allai, sung by D Sathyaprakash and Chinmayi. The striking feature about this one is the lyrics by Vairamuthu, who is the star of this song, and takes us back to golden era. As for the song, it starts off with voice, keys and guitars. The song has a soothing structure, with minimal orchestration, and Sathyaprakash earnestly sings this one, while Chinmayi scores in the humming portion. 
 
 Azhagiye by Arjun Chandy, Haricharan, Jonita Gandhi and Rahman is already a hit among the youth. It is a foot-tapping number. Rahman travels back in time with this trendy, energetic and romantic number. Madhan Karky touches the pulse of the youngsters with his colloquial lyrics. Vocal portions have been handled well by all the singers. Already topping the charts, this one will definitely make it to your playlist. 
 
 Vaan is a breezy melody by Shashaa Tirupati. What starts off as a voice and keys song slowly becomes an orchestral one with layers of instruments. There is a striking bass, flute portions, chorus followed by flawless rendition by Shashaa. Vairamuthu ends every line with ‘vaan’ (referring to the sky and evocative of the hero, a pilot). Saarattu Vandiyila is a folk number with arresting lyrics and energetic rendition by both the lead vocalists and chorus. Sung by Tipu, Nikita Gandhi and AR Raihanah, the song has a festive mood and groovy feel. The flute work in the charanam definitely needs a mention. A Yaaro Yaarodi for this generation! 
 Tango Kelaayo by Diwakar and Haricharan is a tune that one has heard in the trailer. But when you listen to the song at first, it might not appeal to all kinds of listeners. Nevertheless, a good try with a Spanish, retro-style composition. It has so many intricate layers and perhaps works well with visuals. Jugni by Tejinder Singh and Rahman is high on energy. Rahman’s vocal portions add the necessary punch. This one is a musical exploration, and despite the innumerable layers, the song flows seamlessly in one tight, rhythmic structure, that too, in a techno-background. A fitting album to mark the 25th year of the AR   combo. 
 
