JAIPUR:   brings joy. However, this time with   of the state and many places being affected by floods, thousands of people have been rendered homeless. Though lives have been saved by teams of Army, NDRF and other   in Jalore, Sirohi, Pali and some parts of Barmer, these people have lost everything, including their cattle, their homes and even villages have been submerged in   waters.

 Thousands of people residing in various relief camps have not been able to overcome the nightmare even after a week. On Sunday, NDRF, Army and other teams were not only on the job of rescuing more and more people but they were also doing their best to repair and restore bridges and roads that have been badly damaged by the showers.
 
 People living in Chitalwana, Pindwada, Sanchore, Sandeyrao and other affected villages are compelled to stay away from their homes which are already submerged. On Sunday, a pregnant woman in advanced stage was evacuated by the Army teams for safer delivery at health centre in Shivpura. “At least three Army columns are deployed at Jalore including Chitalwana and Pindwada areas to rescue people,” said an officer with the district administration, Jalore.
 
 At many places, lives have been saved but the administration has no time to think of strategy to pump out water from the inundated villages.
 
 “They should now think of some strategy to pump out water from the inundated villages. There is a village Rohua which has been converted into a virtual river. I don’t think the authorities concerned have thought of pumping out water so far,” said Sanyam Lodha, senior Congress leader and ex-MLA, Sirohi while talking to TOI over phone.
 
 Since last Monday, rainfall varying between 10mm and 70mm has been received at majority of places in Barmer, Sirohi and Jalore where the rescue operations have been expedited.
 
 “Our priority is to repair and restore the roads connecting Jalore to other places. Hopefully, we can start the Jalkehda-Jalore and Akoli-Jalore way by Monday evening, “said LN Soni, district collector, Jalore.
 
 Release of water from the Jawai Dam has also added to the flood fury. “People living near the dam area have been evacuated and sent to safer places,” said an officer.
 
 Even in the forecast, there is no respite as the Jaipur Met office predicted heavy rainfall at various places in Udaipur and Jodhpur divisions of the state in the next 24 hours.
 
 
  Onset of   brings joy. However, this time with rains lashing several areas of the state and many places being affected by floods, thousands of people have been rendered homeless. Though lives have been saved by teams of Army, NDRF and other rescue teams in Jalore, Sirohi, Pali and some parts of Barmer, these people have lost everything, including their cattle, their homes and even villages have been submerged in flood waters.
 
 
