KOCHI: Union science and technology minister   will dedicate the Cochin University of Science and Technology's Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research ( ) to the nation on Tuesday. 

 The ACARR is the world's first 205 MHz Stratospheric- Tropospheric wind profiler radar. Being a fully indigenous system, it is capable of measuring wind profiles in the altitude range of 315m to 20km.
 
 This massive Rs 25-crore   (SERB) funded project has been designed and developed by Cusat's scientific team headed by Prof K Mohanakumar.
 
 Kochi is called the gateway of the Indian monsoon and hence having such a facility has a lot of importance in monitoring the dynamics of the southwest monsoon. The Arabian Sea on its western side and the Western Ghats on its eastern side make this place geographically unique and these play an important role in leading to the first burst of the summer monsoon into the region, ACAAR officials said.
 
 Mohanakumar said that this radar can be used to accurately predict the onset and variability of the summer monsoon through a continuous monitoring of its circulation. In addition, a prediction on heavy rainfall events, occurrence and evolution of thunderstorms, turbulence studies can be accurately done using this radar.
 
 The radar has been designed to operate round-the-clock for another 20-25 years and it is anticipated that significant contributions can be made towards studies on climate change.
 
 He said that one of the biggest advantages of this radar facility in Kochi is that it will play a pivotal role in disaster management activities. The activities of the state disaster management cell currently in the state will benefit from the scientific output of this radar.
 
 It will aid in timely prediction of severe meteorological events, the information on which can be transferred to state disaster management cell for augmenting their functioning.
 
 ACARR is actively involved in international collaborations with many institutes. It will be on a joint scientific mission with the Swedish Institute of Space Physics which is operating a radar in Antarctica.
 
 The ST (stratospheric- tropospheric) Radar centre will also be providing wind profiler data for the validation of  's Aeolus satellite which is scheduled to be launched in another two years. A joint proposal with University of Kyoto, Japan, which is operating middle atmospheric wind profiler radar is also in the pipeline.
 
 
