HYDERABAD: It was early 1973.The state was under the President's rule following the violent   in coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema seeking separate Andhra state in 1972. The government was just settling down after the separate   agitation that rocked Telangana districts in 1969 when the   movement picked up momentum. Both the agitations were led by students. Amidst the din for separate states, a group of women students took up a novel agitation -not for redrawing of geographical boundaries but to struggle out of anti-social customs. And the women students of   took the lead against dowry, eve-teasing and sexual harassment of women working in offices.

 Anti-dowry slogans rented the air with students of other educational institutions joining hands with the OU women students. Many women students openly refu sed to marry men, who seek dowry . The famous anti-dowry slogan on campuses in 1973 was -“Demand dowry and remain bachelors“. In contrast to Telangana and Andhra agitations, the antidowry movement was peaceful. It opened the eyes of many and the dowry menace was successfully curbed to a large extent. The OU women students also fought against the obscene film posters. The campaign also concentrated on teasing of women and girls in city buses and public places. According to news archives, what began as a simple oncampus agitation against social evils soon gained public support. Public meetings were conducted in many places outside Hyderabad. These meetings were largely attended. They also fought against inflation and price rise.
 
 Osmania University, which hitherto was the hotbed of political and national movements, emerged as an educational institution that cares for the rights of women and girls too. Apart from academics and politics, the campus also witnessed meaningful debates on the rights of women not only in terms of social and cultural spheres but also on the economic front. There was no fixed place to meet. Discussions were held in the open. Several writers have compared the OU women students' movement for assertion of their rights to the women movements in the West in 1960s.
 
 Incidentally , Osmania University is also the cradle of the   (POW). It was formed by a group of women with Left leanings on the OU campus in 1973. The POW influenced women students of other universities too.
 
 A couple of years later, several women rights activists went underground following the declaration of Emergency in the country . Old timers recall that had the movement against dowry continued for long, things would have been quite different now.
 
