BHOPAL: Realising it pays rich dividends to keep students happy, “Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Chatra Yojana” was announced in the state   for 2017. The scheme is for students scoring well in   (MPBSE) exams. The scheme, however, has evoked a sharp reaction from some CBSE-affiliated private schools and parents.

 After laptop, smartphone and other schemes for MP Board students, finance minister   announced allotment of Rs 1,000 crore for the new scheme. The scheme will help students, who score above 85% in MP Board examinations. The state government will bear tuition fees of the students if they want to take admission in State-level government or national-level government institutes. Apart from it, if they take admission in private or semi-government institutes, they will be given Rs 1 lakh per year as help allowance from the government. They will also get interest-free loan.
 
 Other departments associated with education got allocation of Rs 29,665 crore.
 
 CBSE-affiliated Private School Association of Madhya Pradesh members have dubbed the scheme as biased. “On one hand, the government wants to do away with discrimination, on the other hand, it is giving students of CBSE, ICSE boards a complex. Our children work equally hard during examination. They should also be rewarded by government,” said Ajit Singh, president, Private School Association Madhya Pradesh. Every student should be motivated.
 
 Mridul Das, a parent of Class 12 student from a private CBSE affiliated school, says, “It is not about how much parents of student studying in government school or private school earns. It is about praise that acts as a motivation and keeps them going. If not with gadgets, even certification of merit from government for students studying in CBSE and ICSE schools would motivate them.”
 
 Some principals, however, appreciated the move. B S Yadav from IES Public school, says, “It’s a good move. There should be schemes like this so that students work hard. Most of students, who study in private schools can afford fees. But parents from poor financial background, who admit their children to a private school suffer or get into debt later. I appreciate the move.”
 
 “Schemes like this brings out hidden talent. Instead of describing it discriminatory, it should be appreciated so that students from rural area get more exposure for the sake of better future. In cities, parents are capable enough to make their children choose better career. It is not the case in rural areas,” said Sushmita Singh, a parent of a student in CBSE-affiliated school.
 
 
 
 
 36,000 vacancies to be filled and process has started
 
 For   3,400 crore allocated
 
 For Madhyamik Siksha Abhiyan,Rs 646 crore allocated.
 
 Rs 30 cr to arrange benches for students in middle school
 
 Rs 45 crore for maintenance of school buildings
 
 Rs 27 crore for electrification of govt school buildings
 
 520 high schools, 240 higher secondary schools proposed to be developed
 
 Two new govt gurukuls for tribal students
 
 Rs 214 cr allotted for new school buildings construction to education dept and Rs 189 cr
 
 30 new hostels for SC and ST students
 
 All NCERT books for science, maths and commerce from Class 9-11 to build capacity of students to take part in all kinds of competitive exams
 
 Students taking admission in pvt medical college will have to fill a bond with govt to give their services for 3 years in rural areas
 
 
