NEW DELHI: In a major breakthrough, an arms manufacturer from Madhya Pradesh supplying weapons to gangsters in Delhi-NCR and several   cadres, has been arrested by  .

 The  , Richhpal Singh, has supplied more than 15,000 weapons to criminals till date and had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. Weapons used in a large number of crimes in Delhi in the recent past were from this module. “Singh has been manufacturing and supplying weapons for the past 30 years,” said DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav.
 
 The officer added that Singh also supplied weapons and hand grenades to Maoists in Maoist areas of Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Maharashtra. He sold the weapons to three cadres — Sudhakaranna, Venanna and Mohananna — of the Praja Prathighatana faction of CPI (ML).
 
 “In 2006, Singh supplied three pistols, 28 live cartridges and two country-made hand grenades to the Praja Prathigatane faction after which he and two others were arrested. He was later granted bail, but absconded after that. The court then declared him a proclaimed offender,” Yadav said.
 
 In Delhi, gangsters from   gang, Manjeet Mahal faction and several others were in touch with him. A special team led by inspector Attar Singh had been looking for Singh for the past one year. The team busted four of his modules, arrested seven carriers and seized 117 semi-automatic pistols, including a carbine, as well as ammunition.
 
 A fortnight ago, a team including SI Praveen Rathi was sent to Burhanpur to nab him, but he managed to give them the slip. He was later tracked to north Delhi and arrested. He shot at the police, but they escaped unhurt due to bulletproof vests.
 
 Singh said that he learnt the art of making weapons from his family which has been in the trade for over 80 years. His father and six brothers supply weapons to criminals in Delhi, UP, Punjab, Haryana, MP, Maharashtra, etc through their carriers. Earlier,   had arrested two of his brothers.
 
 “The Singh brothers can make a perfect replica of any weapon, including revolver, pistol and even carbine. It costs them less than Rs 3,000 to manufacture a pistol, which is supplied in bulk for Rs 10,000,” Yadav said.
 
 The weapons were sold to criminals in Delhi and adjoining states for Rs 25,000 or more. The police are going through Singh’s phonebook and customer base to identify the receivers of the weapons. More arrests are likely. More than 400 sophisticated and semi-automatic weapons have been seized from Singh’s modules since January this year.
 
