NAGPUR: Polling staff gave rise to numerous problems at some booths due to which some voters could not cast their vote and some got confused while voting for four seats. The staff were not checking the voters’ name in the list properly and also confused them by not displaying the ballot units of   (EVMs) in proper sequence.

 A major loophole came to fore in the voters list at all polling booths. There were two serial numbers in the list and many were sent back when their name was not found against the number they got through online portals or mobile app True Voter. The mistake happened due to lack of coordination between the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and   (SEC).
 
 “NMC submitted a suggested break-up of part numbers in voters list. SEC broke up the parts in a different way gave its own serial numbers. Thus, the same name ended up having different serial number in the list submitted by the NMC and that prepared by the SEC,” NMC official said.
 
 The polling staff sent back some voters without casting vote saying their name was not in the voters list. SEC’s True Voter app had serial numbers according to the NMC’s list and not as per the list prepared by the SEC.
 
 Accepting the mess, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI there was problem in initial stage but it was resolved. “We guided the polling staff and asked them to check the two serial numbers,” he said.
 
 Despite EVMs being checked properly two days ago, voting started late at five polling booths owing to problems in EVMs. At Shantiniketan booth in Ward 31 and   booth in Ward 15, EVM was required to be replaced leading to delay. In one booth in Ward 37, the voting buttons could not be pressed properly and so it was replaced amid polling.
 
 Though the polling staff was trained, ballot units were not placed properly seat-wise and colour-wise resulting in tension at some booths. Candidates lodged complaint in Wards 11 and 14. At one booth in Ward 11, EVM displaying seat-C and D was placed before that having seat-A and B.   candidate Vaishali Barde’s father-in-law lodged a complaint with returning officer about this.
 
 In Ward 14, supporters of independent candidate Ritika Bihari Shivhare had a heated exchange with polling officer Vinod Dongre for over an hour. Ritika’s uncle Pankaj Gupta said EVMs were not placed in proper sequence in the booth at Tirpude College, Sadar.
 
 NMC official from Dharampeth Zone said there were no problems to voters in voting for the candidate they wish to vote. “It might have created some confusion but there was no possibility of votes going to candidate other than the one chosen by the voter,” he said.
 
 At some booths, the polling staff displayed dummy EVMs. At Pratap Nagar, half of Seat C and then D were shown after Seat A and B.
 
 The polling staff was very helpful in many booths and guided the voters properly.
 
 Hardikar said complaints about voters list were less this time and could have been avoided if they had a more time. “Voters’ slips were distributed to around 60% people going to their households. There would have been no problem if all voters had got the slips. We were short of staff and time,” he said.
 
 Hardikar, additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare and assistant commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha solved EVM problems quickly by visiting the booths throughout the day.
 
 (WITH INPUTS FROM SARFARAZ AHMED)
 
 
