NEW DELHI: The impact of the family feud on   and the clout of BJP leader Yogi Adityanath will be tested during the sixth phase of   in 49 assembly segments across seven districts in eastern Uttar Pradesh – Mau, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Kushinagar, Deoria,   and  .
 
  The incumbent  , which won 27 seats, and its new alliance partner,  , which had won four seats in 2012 elections, is battling the impact of pre-poll feud within the party.
  
  While SP founder  , who is Lok Sabha member from Azamgarh, has kept away from campaigning, the rescinding of the Quami Ekta Dal (QED) merger with the party by CM   has also put pressure on the party.
  
  The CM has sought to compensate for his father’s absence by intensive campaigning in Azamgarh. His wife  , too, has campaigned extensively, invoking her status as the “daughter-in-law” to seek public support.
  
  However, QED leaders Afzal and   have put a spanner in the works of SP, especially in its bid to win support of backward and Muslim communities in Mau and Ballia districts.
  
  Two senior SP leaders, Ambika Chaudhary and Narad Rai, have also joined BSP, upsetting SP’s calculations in Ballia district.
  
  BSP, which has only nine MLAs in the constituencies going to the polls in the sixth phase, is expecting to better its tally after the induction of Ansari brothers in the party by capitalising on the feud within SP.
  
  BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Gorakhpur, Yogi Adityanath, has a lot riding on him in this phase. Having campaigned extensively across the state, Yogi has been talked up as a potential CM candidate by his supporters in the BJP in this region.
  
  BJP currently has only seven MLAs from among the seats going to the polls in the sixth phase on Saturday and the party hopes to improve upon this.
  
  The party’s performance in Gorakhpur, Maharajga n j , Kushinagar and Deoria, in particular, is expected to reflect on the clout of Yogi and consequently his future stature within BJP after UP election.
  
  Union minister Kalraj Mishra’s clout will also be tested here as he is a Lok Sabha MP from Deoria, which goes to polls in this phase.
  
  BJP hopes to benefit from the alliance with local   – Bharatiya Samaj Party, which champions the cause of OBC Rajbhar community, and Apna Dal, which derived its support from among OBC Kurmi community.
  
  BJP has fielded four candidates from these parties in this phase of election as part of the alliance.
  
  Among keenly watched contests, former leader of opposition in state assembly and BSP turncoat   is contesting from Padrauna while former BJP state unit chief Surya Pratap Shahi is contesting from Pathardeva (Deoria).
  
  From among influential Ansari family, while Mukhtar is contesting from Mau, his son Abbas is contesting from neighbouring Ghosi seat.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
