PUNE: The Bombay high court has ruled that conviction of an accused in a criminal case cannot be stayed mechanically to fulfill his wishes. 

 The court rejected an application by Nationalist   (NCP) activist  , who sought suspension of his conviction in an attempt to murder case, during the pendency of his appeal as he wanted to contest the upcoming polls to   (PCMC).
 
 “The object of the legislature in keeping away the convicts from contesting elections has to be given primacy while deciding such application," Justice A M Badar said in an order on Wednesday. Friday was the last day for filing nominations for the civic polls.
 
 In 2012, Taras and three others were sentenced by a Pune sessions court to five-years rigorous imprisonment for attempting to kill a rival Congress activist during the PCMC elections in 2017.
 
 While sub-section (3) of Section 8 of the Representation of People (RP) Act, 1951, bars a convict sentenced for more than two years, from contesting elections, Taras had cited sub-section (4) of Section 8 to argue that such bar was not absolute and upon stay of conviction, the convict can contest elections.
 
 Taras had cited a   ruling in Rajbala and others vs State of Haryana and argued, among other things, that right to vote and right to contest were constitutional rights and therefore, he was entitled to contest the PCMC elections.
 
 Justice Badar observed, “No doubt, the apex court in the Rajbala case has held right to vote and right to contest as constitutional rights of citizen, one has to keep in mind that the object of legislature in enacting sub-section (3) of Section 8 of the RP Act is to keep away persons convicted and sentenced for more than two years, from contesting elections. This provision deserves purposive interpretation.” 
 
 Merely because a convict wants to contest municipal election, his conviction cannot be stayed, the judge observed.
 
 The bench went on to cite Supreme Court rulings wherein it was held that power to stay conviction ought to be exercised only in exceptional circumstances where failure to stay conviction may lead to injustice and irreversible consequence. 
 
 Similarly, the apex court has also held that the applicant must satisfy the court as regards the evil that is likely to befall him, if the conviction is not suspended. The ramifications of keeping such conviction in abeyance also need to be looked into, the apex court has said.
 
 Justice Badar observed, “In the case in hand, the applicant-accused (Taras) has been convicted for offence punishable under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common motive) of the Indian Penal Code and the cause of prosecuting him was the earlier election to PCMC.” The aspect of whether the conviction is suffering from an error of law cannot be gone into at this stage, the judge said. 
 
