NAVI MUMBAI: The   of an Ola cab has been arrested for allegedly escaping after abandoning a “severely injured”   he had   down on   in Navi Mumbai last week. 

 The cabbie allegedly   the injured biker at a desolate spot on the road where he lay bleeding for nearly 12 hours, said the police. By the time, the victim was found, he had bled to death.
 
 The police said that the cab driver, Raees Khan (23), a resident of Ganeshpuri village in Panvel, had initially helped the injured biker, Sachin Surve (36), a resident of Kharghar, into his cab soon after the accident late on Friday, purportedly to transport him to hospital.
 
  However, he escaped after dumping him on the pavement on the way to hospital, fearing that a police case would be registered against him. 
 
 Khan was arrested a day later on Saturday.
 
 Assistant police inspector Chandrasen Godse said that Khan’s cab knocked down Surve near Diwale village when the biker was on his way home from Thane where he was employed with a private company.
 
 “Surve had sustained severe head injuries,” said Godse. “A few people who gathered at the accident spot told Khan to rush the injured man to   in CBD Belapur. Khan helped Surve get into his cab.”
 
 Meanwhile, as Surve did not reach home until late that night, his wife went looking for him. “She hired an autorickshaw and told the driver to go up to Vashi along the Sion-Panvel highway. Having failed to spot him anywhere she then retraced his daily route home,” said Godse.
 
 Around midnight, when she was near Diwale junction, she spotted his bike parked by the roadside. She enquired with a few autorickshaw drivers who told her that the biker had been injured in an accident involving a cab and that the driver had taken him to hospital.
 
 Surve’s wife searched for him at hospitals in the vicinity, but to no avail. She then came to CBD police station around 3am. The policemen joined her in her search.
 
 “After looking around for nearly six hours, Surve was found dead by the road near Income Tax Colony in sector 27 in Nerul,” said Godse, adding that he was declared ‘brought dead due to excessive bleeding’. Surve had been lying on the road for nearly 12 hours, said Godse.
 
 The cabbie was traced from the car registration number given by the people who had witnessed the accident. “The cabbie possibly assumed the biker was dead on seeing his injuries and seems to have dumped him on the way to hospital,” said Godse.
 
 Khan is currently in judicial custody. He has been booked for causing death due to rash and negligent driving.
 
 
