NEW DELHI: India’s busiest home season ever culminated in Virat Kohli’s team retaining the Border-Gavaskar Trophy with a 2-1 series victory. Here’s a look at how each of the players fared. 

 
  
  
 No hundred, but six half-centuries made for a fine series for a fine young batsman - even though concentration remains an issue, as scores of 90, 51, 67 and 60 indicate. The comeback win in his home city of Bangalore could not have been possible without that 90 and 51, for which Rahul was named Man of the Match. The 90 was the innings that set up India’s win. In Ranchi, looked sublime for that 67 until a jaffa from Pat Cummins ended his stay. In Dharamsala, was solid during the first innings with 60 until a mistimed pull shot settled at mid-off, and then played a blinder to finish the chase inside two sessions. The question lingers: What could have happened had Rahul, on 64, not thrown away his wicket in the first innings in Pune, after which India lost seven wickets for 11 runs? 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 The leading wicket-taker of the series. Probing, teasing, damaging. Whenever Ashwin struggled, Jadeja rose to the fore with his left-arm spin, which always found a way to trouble Australia. His best spells came in Bangalore, where his 6/63 ensured Australia did not run away with the Test after bowling out India for 189, and in Ranchi, where he constantly posed a threat in batsmen-friendly conditions. Taking nine wickets on that surface was exemplary, and due reward for his ability to keep plugging away with those darts into the rough. Following that nine-wicket haul, Jadeja joined Ashwin as the No 1 Test bowler. Then came Dharamsala, where he dismissed Marsh for 57 on Day one and on the third helped skittle Australia for 137.
 
 Jadeja’s batting, as all through his career, was hit-or-miss. Four scores of under 5, then two half-centuries at strike-rates of 98.18 and 66.31 respectively. His best of 63 came in the decider, when India were trying to scale Australia’s 300. With Saha, Jadeja got the team into the lead. A match-winning innings. 
 
 
 
 The most successful fast bowler of the series, with nine more than the next best, Josh Hazlewood. Had his best series returns, beating the 14 he took against Australia in 2011-12. Enhanced his reputation as India’s most developed, and subsequently the best, fast bowler. The pace was expectedly good, but what was again the most impressive was Umesh’s control, ability to break partnerships and, as best highlighted on the third afternoon in Dharamsala, the hostility.
 
 In Pune, where the ball spun alarmingly from the start, it was Umesh’s pace that did most damage during Australia’s first innings, his 4/32 including the big wicket of David Warner and then the tail in a hurry. Took three big wickets in the Bangalore win, including that of Shaun Marsh for 66 in Australia’s first innings and then Smith and Marsh in the definite burst of the final day. On the Ranchi flatbed, Umesh bowled 46 overs for returns of 3/142 and twice created breakthroughs during Australia’s first innings of 451. Was at his fiery best on day three in Dharamsala during the spell that swung the deciding Test India’s way, in which he had Australia’s top order fending and swaying before he reaped the rewards from the good-length sucker-punch balls. Umesh should have had four late in the day, except R Ashwin dropped a catch at slip. An outstanding series for him. Unlucky to not be named Man of the Series. 
 
 
  
  
 The second highest run-getter of the series after Steven Smith (499). Contributed in every game. Became the top-ranked Indian in the ICC Test batsmen rankings. Surged where Kohli slumped, and that really was the defining feature of India’s series win. After a lukewarm first Test, India’s No 3 underlined his necessity this time with a masterful 92 in the second innings in Bangalore, on a dodgy track, which powered India to a match-winning lead. In Ranchi, after Australia posted 451, Pujara carried India with a remarkable 202, the longest innings by any Indian batsman in terms of balls faced. Looked good much more than the 57 he made during India’s first innings in Dharamsala. Ended the series by getting run out for 0, a minor blot. 
 
 
  
  
 By his lofty standards, this series was a tough one. And yet he still took 21 wickets in four Tests. Managed nine wickets in Pune when the conditions were tailored for him, but was made to look ordinary by Nathan Lyon and Steve O’Keefe. Then came Bangalore, where Ashwin was unstoppable during the fourth innings as he bowled India to a famous victory with a devastating spell of 5/6 in 28 balls. Took two wickets while conceding 185 runs in Ranchi, where Jadeja took nine wickets. Was a part of Australia’s collapse on day three in Dharamsala, scalping Maxwell and Hanscomb. Misused the DRS a couple times, which was surprising for a bowler who is usually spot-on with reviews. Ashwin had a poor run with the bat, averaging 8.83 with a best of 30. 
 
 
 The average is bloated by one innings, but it was a very special innings. With 26 runs in four innings before the Ranchi Test, of which 20 came in one unbeaten innings, Saha was a man under the scanner. Then he delivered a wonderful 117 while adding 199 with Pujara, to help India to 603/9 and a lead of 152. In Dharamsala, Saha’s 31 in a stand of 96 with Jadeja pushed India out of trouble and into the lead. The failures in Pune will sting. His wicketkeeping was next to flawless, and his grab of a ball lodged between Steven Smith’s pads and subsequent appeal in Ranchi the much-needed moment of laughter amid the heat and tension.
 
 
  
  
 An inspired pick in Dharamsala, where he received his first Test cap and surprised Australia with his left-arm chinaman deliveries to the tune of 4/68 on day one. The deliveries to bowl Hanscomb and Maxwell were beauties, and his control and ability to hurry the batsmen with the wrong one was excellent. Took a bit of stick from Maxwell in the second innings, bowling five wicketless overs for 23 runs. Should be persisted with as the third spinner whenever the situation demands, purely for his variety and control. In hindsight, India may have erred in not picking Kuldeep earlier in the series. 
 
 
  
  
 Entered the series with questions over his temperament, having managed 13, 1, 23, 26 and 0 against England and 82 and 28 in the one-off Test with Bangladesh. Score of 13, 18 and 17 prompted calls for Rahane to be dropped, but he doused those with a dogged 52 in partnership with Pujara in the second innings in Bangalore, a passage that put the match out of Australia’s reach. Took over the captaincy in Ranchi when Kohli was off the field and failed with bat. Became India’s 33rd captain in Dharamsala where he held a good catch at slip and made 45 until Nathan Lyon’s bounce surprised him late on day two. Captained aggressively and astutely on day three, when Australia folded for 137. In pursuit of 106, Rahane strode out after two wickets fell in succession and counter-attacked with an eye-catching 38 off 27 balls as India claimed the series. Needs runs to regain confidence. 
 
 
 
 Took two wickets in the only match he got, but the second was the biggest of them all - Smith on day three, bowled for 17 when Australia were battling to erase a deficit of 32 runs after Warner fell cheaply. That was a probing spell which helped India apply the squeeze on Australia and the manner in which Bhuvneshwar celebrated Smith’s wicket said it all. Failed with the bat, making 0 in a period in which India needed runs from the lower order. Relegated to back-up this series, but must play ahead of Ishant Sharma.
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Not a series worth remembering for Vijay. Failed in Pune (10 and 2), missed Bangalore with a shoulder injury, then made a silken 82 in Ranchi which ended in the last over before lunch on day three, when he charged O’Keefe and was stumped. Vijay later said the shot was on but that his application had failed him. For a batsman in his 50th Test, it was a telling statement that in a sense sums up his career: filled with plenty of quality scores in all conditions, but too often coated with carelessness. Finished the series with 11 and 8. Half-empty? Half-full? The Vijay paradox continues.
 
 
  
  
 After the incredible run of form that saw him boss New Zealand, England and Bangladesh, in the process scoring three double-centuries, India’s captain hit the ground with a loud thud. His first innings was a duck - his first at home - followed by a second-innings decision to leave a delivery from Steve O’Keefe that hit off stump. In Bangalore, didn’t offer a shot to Lyon and received a shooter from Hazlewood. Batted with injury in Ranchi and made 6, ruled out of the decider. Captained as expected - aggressively and instinctively - and was never short of giving the Australians a mouthful.
 
 
  
  
 Three wickets in three matches for a bowler with 77 Tests to his credit was further proof that Ishant remains a work in progress, a decade on from his debut. When Ishant was good, he was very good: the fifth morning in Ranchi was showcased by good pace and reverse swing, peppered with short deliveries, to claim Matt Renshaw’s wicket. But all too often the unplayable deliveries were fewer than the ones that were harmless. Another inconsistent series for perhaps the most infuriating Indian cricketer of this generation. 
 
 
  
  
 Unfairly, comparisons with his landmark unbeaten 303 against England in Chennai will be made whenever Nair walks out to bat. That said, his batting was not convincing. Missed the first Test, looked good in the first innings in Bangalore during his 39-ball 26 which was the second-highest score of India’s 189, until he dashed out at O’Keefe and was stumped. Got a first-baller in the second innings when a revved-up Mitchell Starc nailed the stumps, made 23 in Ranchi and 5 in Dharamsala. Dropped Warner twice in Dharamsala at third slip, the first time off the first ball of the Test and then 14 deliveries into Australia’s second innings. When Rohit Sharma returns, Nair will make way without a second thought.
 
 
 
 Returned to the team after missing three Tests (two v England, one v Bangladesh) but was largely ineffective during the thrashing in Pune. Didn’t get a look-in after that. One can only wonder where he stands now, after three very impressive Tests against England last year and Kuldeep’s strong debut in Dharamsala.
 
