CHENNAI:   is one of 14 states that have failed to notify rules for the   (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA), an ambitious central act for transparency in the realty sector, which rolls out on Monday.

 The Centre framed RERA for accountability and efficiency in real estate — a sector that has so far not been obliged to operate within clearly delineated norms — and the law defines the rights and obligations of buyers and developers.
 
 The state government released draft rules for the act but did not ratify them.
 
 Union housing ministry sources said they have been in regular contact with states, the Tamil Nadu government included, on notification of rules for the implementation of RERA.
 
 “We have apprised states on the notification of the act,” a ministry official told TOI. “But we are yet to receive information from Tamil Nadu on a definite date for notification of the the rules.”
 
 Section 20 of the act mandates that each state establish a regulatory authority by April 30. It also empowers state governments to designate an officer — “preferably” the housing   — as an interim regulatory authority till they set up the authority.
 
 “The state government has to take the initiative to appoint an interim regulator,” the official said.
 
 Apart from stringent action against developers who miss project deadlines, the act notes that all ongoing projects that have not received completion certificates will be under the purview of the authority.
 
 The existing Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2016 does contain certain features that parallel those of the act — provisions such as the arrest of developers who fail to deliver projects on time.
 
 The rules also adopted other provisions of the Centre’s norms, making compulsory the registration of real estate agents, providing buyers refunds if builders do not follow time schedules and constituting a real estate authority and an appellate tribunal for consumers to register complaints and seek reparation.
 
 But RERA is much more comprehensive. Developers organisations criticised the state’s delay in notifying the rules for the act. Builders’ Association of India’s Southern Centre, Chennai, honorary secretary S Ramaprabhu said the failure by Tamil Nadu, the largest urbanised state, to notify the RERA rules reflected poorly on the government.
 
 “One of the suggestions we made to the government was to make officials accountable for delays in clearing files,” he said.
 
 State government officials said the notification of rules could take place within a few days. “The rules haven’t been notified so far because the state cabinet has to clear them,” a government official said.
 
 Another official said the government has already developed a web portal to register projects under the act.
 
