Coimbatore:   is planning to increase green cover on its 1,300-acre campus and will sign a MoU with a local NGO soon in this regard, vice-chancellor of the university A Ganapathi said here on Monday. He was speaking at the enviro-meet organised by a non-profit organisation, OSAI, to mark the Global   on Monday. 

 “In comparison to various universities such as Anna University, the acreage of land under green cover is less in Bharathiar University. We are planning to take up many plantation drives on the university campus and will sign a MoU with Siruthuli, a local NGO. We have some funds that can be used for this purpose,” he said. He urged the botany and zoology department of the university to take up the responsibility for this. 
 
 Chief conservator of forest and field director of Anaimalai Tiger Reserve V Ganesan said that the only way to save the tiger was to save the forest. “With tiger at the top of the food cycle and the ecological flow chart, it is very important to conserve them. The forest conservation and the tiger conservation are interlinked,” he said. He said the tiger population in ATR has improved over the years and more than 20 have been recorded at the reserve. “We have set up more than 100 CCTV cameras to capture and record the tiger population.”
 
 He also stressed the importance of the Wildlife Protection Act and need for conservation work. “Many of the laws need to be amended to ensure that conservation is given more focus. The training academies and institutes continue to train on silviculture instead of wildlife management and conservation. Though changes have been made over the period, it requires more reformation,” said Ganesan.
 
 K Kalidas, president of OSAI, also stressed the importance of conservation and said that students and everyone in the community should take responsibility to conserve wildlife. “We should not blame the forest department for everything. We should work with them as it is also our responsibility to conserve the forest. Our survival is dependent on the wildlife and forest,” he said. 
 
 
