LUDHIANA: The officials of   are trying to avoid any kind of confusion these days followed by the suspension of two superintending engineers of the building and road department by local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu.

 The officials who had floated tenders to hire contractors for   of city   have decided to call tenders again after receiving a single tender. 
 
 The chlorination of tubewells is being done through outsourcing and MC allots the tenders every year. This year the contract had already expired and MC has given extension to the previous contractors till August 25 so that chlorination should not be affected during rainy season. 
 
 The e-tenders worth Rs 98.30 lakh were floated for the chlorination but only one company has filled the tenders. After discussion with seniors, the officials of operation and maintenance cell decided to float the tenders again.
 
 One of the officials claimed that though they had received a letter from the government in 2011 that a single tender can be accepted if   has been done but even then the minister suspended two  . He said they have enough time and they will float the tenders again. 
 
 The superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Rajinder Singh confirmed that only one company had participated in the tendering procedure for chlorination of tube wells so they have decided to float the tenders again. 
 
 Meanwhile, the sources revealed that due to suspension of two SEs, the officials have started taking extra care while doing works. Notably, two SEs Pawan Sharma and Dharam Singh were suspended on the charges of allotting tenders to contractors when there was only single bidder.
 
 Chief vigilance officer Sudip Manik had conducted an inquiry of all civil works done in 2016 in which the development works conducted under Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) were also included. Followed by their suspension, the employees staged a protest but when the SEs met Sidhu, they stop protest believing that their suspension will be revoked.
 
 
