CHANDIGRAH: Vidhan Sabha has defended giving   to convicted ex-MLAs, including former CM   Chautala, his son Ajay Singh Chautala, Sher Singh Badshami, and Satbir Singh Kadian, despite their conviction in corruption cases.

 A reply in this regard was filed on Thursday before the Punjab and Haryana high court by the Vidhan Sabha in response to a PIL seeking directions to stop the payment of the MLAs on account of their conviction under the Prevention of Corruption Act and other sections of the IPC.
 
 The   secretariat told the HC that if convicts had completed their tenure in the assembly before their appeals were dismissed in the higher court, their disqualification becomes infructuous. The assembly, however, has not responded to the argument that disqualification under Section 8 (4) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, to bar them from contesting elections under the Act.
 
 The convicted ex-MLAs have also not filed their replies in the case. The matter would now come up for further hearing on March 30.
 
 In his PIL, advocate H C Arora argued that the ex-MLAs of Haryana were convicted under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and sentenced to imprisonment ranging between 7 and 10 years. They therefore stood disqualified under the provisions of Section 8 of the Representation of the Peoples Act, from the date of their conviction, for a period of 7-10 years for which they had been sentenced to imprisonment plus six years more from the future date of their release from prison.
 
 Thus, Chautalas and Badshami were not entitled to draw pension as ex-MLAs for 16 years up to January 16, 2029, while Kadian couldn’t receive pension up to August 26, 2029, the plea said. The petitioner had also submitted that under the Section 8 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, Chautalas stood disqualified for a period of 16 years (10 years of sentence plus 6 years more) from January 16.
 
 The petitioner sais that under Section 7-A (1-A) of the   (Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members) Act, 1975, it was laid down that “no pension shall be admissible under sub-section (1) to a member in respect of the term and during the period for which he is disqualified under the Representation of the People Act.”
 
 
