MUMBAI: The   (CoA), it seems, is now cracking the whip strongly in its bid to oust administrators who're resisting Lodha reforms. In a controversial move, the   ( ) acting secretary   hasn't invited veteran administrator   for a meeting of the   (NCA) scheduled to be held in New Delhi on Friday.

 The 73-year-old Shah, who was the secretary of the   (SCA) for close to four decades, has been disqualified from being a BCCI or state-level office-bearer on multiple counts. In July this year, the Supreme Court had barred Shah and Srinivasan from attending the BCCI Special General Meeting (SGM), directing that only office bearers of state cricket associations can take part in it.
 
 Protesting his exclusion from the meeting, a peeved Shah had written a strongly-worded letter, a copy of which is with TOI, to Choudhary, asking the meeting to be postponed in his absence.
 
 "Dear Amitabh, I'm surprised to learn that a meeting of the   has been scheduled this Friday, and a notice for the same hasn't been sent to me, even though I'm the chairman of the NCA, officially constituted by the BCCI. You'll agree that as an acting secretary of the BCCI appointed by the Supreme Court and to comply with the duty of the BCCI's procedural matters, notice for the meeting under reference should've been sent to me," Shah says in the letter.
 
 "As a chairman of the NCA committee, I hereby call upon you to postpone the aforesaid meeting and to inform all the members promptly. The rescheduled meeting may be held after giving ample time to all the members of the NCA committee, including me to prepare and contribute at the meeting. The omission of anyone and or undue haste in holding such meetings would reflect lack of transparency, fairness and equity; especially in matters that would have a significant financial impact," he adds.
 
 It is understood that Choudhary took the decision of not inviting Shah because, in the past, the CoA has questioned the latter's presence at NCA meetings as he is disqualified to continue in his role because he exceeds the age cap of 70 set by the Lodha panel. With the next hearing before the Supreme Court set for September 19, Choudhary, clearly, wants to avoid any trouble. Shah is the lone member of the NCA committee who hasn't been invited. Those who are likely to attend the meeting include BCCI CEO Rahul Johri, Choudhary, former India captain   and  . The NCA members are eager to meet to quicken the process of building the new NCA premises on the outskirts of Bengaluru.
 
 
 A meeting of the CoA will be held on Saturday. The CoA has already prepared the draft of the new BCCI constitution, which will be presented to the SC. 
 
