BELAGAVI: Another BJP leader in the state is in trouble, close on the heels of MP Ananth Kumar Hegde attacking a doctor in hospital. 

 A complaint was registered on Monday invoking various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, against four-time MLA Bharamgouda alias Raju Kage of Kagawad constituency, and 12 others, including family members and supporters. A case was registered at Kagawad police station against him for assaulting Congress leader Vivek Jayendra Shetty, 28, a resident of   village in Athani. 
 
 Political rivalry and Shetty's allegedly derogatory remarks on social media platforms are said to have led to the attack. The MLA denied all charges.
 
 A CCTV camera caught the MLA's daughter   and his elder brother   trespassing the victim's house on January 1 along with other associates at 8.30am, wielding sticks and sharp weapons. The footages showed the gang assaulting Vivek, dragging him down from the first floor and the victim's mother pleading with them to let him go. The family handed over all footage to police. 
 
 The case was registered against the MLA, Trupti Kage, his brother  , brother's wife Shobha and son Prasad, Gajanan Sadashiv Kage, Gajanan Mahadev Kage, Shekhar Tammani Kage and his brother Ashok, Dr Prasanna Kage, Vinod Patil, Ashok Patil and MLA's car driver Bahubalil under Sections 143, 147, 148, 342, 452, 323, 324, 326, 307, 354, 367, 504, 506 and sub-section 149 of the IPC. All the accused are from Ugar Khurd village.
 
 After TV channels telecast the news, police went to Miraj in Maharashtra where Vivek Shetty is undergoing treatment in a hospital and recorded his complaint. His left leg and left shoulder were fractured. Hospital sources said it may take him six months to recover. Vi vek's mother Ujjwala said she was helpless when the gang assaulted him. "They abused me with filthy words when I tried to stop them from dragging my son downstairs. They told me to go to the police station or anywhere," he said. 
 
