PUDUCHERRY: Puducherry chief minister   said his government has banned government officials from sharing official information through social media like  , WhatsApp and  . Speaking to reporters after chairing a cabinet meeting on Monday night, he said officials must not take to social media bypassing the administrative hierarchy and routine official channels to share official information.

 Narayanasamy said the officials must desist from joining any WhatsApp group to discuss official matters. He said in case of emergencies government officials must get written permission from the chief secretary to use social media for disseminating official information. He warned that the government will initiate disciplinary proceedings and penal action against officials violating the government order.
 
 The announcement comes soon after a Puducherry civil service officer A S Sivakumar posted as registrar of cooperative societies and holding additional charge as director (information technology) was suspended by Lt Governor   on charges of posting an obscene video in a WhatsApp group of government officials. Police also booked Sivakumar under Section 67 of the Information technology act, 2000 and detained him for inquiries.
 
 The suspension of the officer without the knowledge of the minister concerned and elected representatives did not go well with the Congress government. A section of ministers and MLAs freed Sivakumar, who was detained for more than 12 hours at the police station, further compounding the ongoing tussle between the Lt Governor and the elected government.
 
 Bedi, who directed her secretariat officials to form several WhatsApp groups among government servants for quick dissemination of official information, has been reviewing the progress of various schemes and projects and issuing instructions to territorial officials through WhatsApp and other social media networks bypassing elected representatives and leading to friction between her and the elected government. The state government’s move would mean officials are banned from participating in WhatsApp groups set up by Bedi. 
 
 Welfare minister M Candassamy who has been vocal in his criticism of Bedi demanded the Union government should recall her immediately. He accused her of ‘overstepping’ her limits and taking ‘arbitrary’ decisions and keeping the elected government in the dark.
 
 Meanwhile Bedi, who left for New Delhi, called on Union home minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister of state for home affairs Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday triggering speculation that she had lodged a complaint against the ministers for raising the banner of revolt against her. But Raj Nivas sources said Bedi invited Rajnath Singh and Kiren Rijiju to visit the Union territory.
 
 
