CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh administration’s lack of initiative in   has transformed   for the worse — from a city where   moved like a well-oiled machine as less as 10 years ago to now when   are the order of the day.

 Terming the issue of poor urban mobility as the “elephant in the room” at the TOI roundtable “Is it time to move beyond Le Corbusier?” here on Sunday, city residents criticised the administration for not finding timely solutions to Chandigarh’s traffic problems.
 
 For the past few years, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has been making efforts to improve public transport. CTU buses ply on 75 routes with a waiting period for boarding a bus varying from 20 minutes to over one and a half hours.
 
 A former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA), Rajneesh Wattas, said the administration had failed to address issues pertaining to urban mobility and this had compounded problems for the city. “Chandigarh has been overtaken by automobiles and the administration is still struggling to find solutions,” Wattas said.
 
 Due to lack of efficient public transport, residents are forced to use personal vehicles for commuting within the city. The city has the highest density of vehicles in the country. On an average, each family in the city owns more than two cars.
 
 The administration had last year signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Agence Francaise Development (AFD), a French government agency, on technical cooperation in the field of sustainable urban development, including public transport.
 
 The high number of vehicles has also caused parking problems in residential and commercial areas of the city. A city-based hotelier, M P S Chawla, suggested that government offices, banks and other institutes should introduce staff buses to reduce traffic. “Also, government offices should change their working hours to improve the situation, especially during the morning and evening rush hours,” Chawla said.
 
 The high number of vehicles has made roads unsafe for cyclists and pedestrians. Data with Chandigarh Police shows that 355 pedestrians and 240 cyclists were killed in road accidents between 2010 and 2016.
 
 Indian art critic Prof B N Goswamy said Le Corbusier had anticipated almost every aspect of urbanisation, except the abnormally high density of vehicles seen today. “The administration needs to address this quickly before the situation becomes grim,” he said.
 
 Due to high number of vehicles and inadequate parking spaces, people often park their cars on walkways. The situation is worse in southern sectors. The president of Youth Innovative Society, Sachin Sharma, said parking problem had gone from bad to worse. “The administration needs to find a solution for redressing the issue,” said Sharma.
 
 
 
