KOLKATA: A 19-year-old first-year engineering student allegedly killed himself at his friend’s place in Kestopur on Thursday. Though his family has refused to belive he committed suicide, cops said prima facie evidence suggests that victim   committed suicide. 

 The incident was reported when his friend returned from Purulia and found the door locked from inside. Though no suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police said he might have killed himself over a tiff with his girlfriend, with whom he had a six-year-long relationship. 
 
 According to police, the student of   committed suicide by hanging himself in the flat of his friend Ram Swaroop Mukherjee, who had left him the keys to his flat when he went to Purulia about five days back.
 
 According to his father Kishore, Dutta had last contacted them around 2pm on Thursday, saying he would soon board a train to Purulia. The family lodged a complaint at Purulia Sadar police station, but officers said they would look into details before lodging a murder case. 
 
 “We found the door bolted from inside. Hence, it does not look like a case of murder. But we can decide on the next course of action only after we receive a detailed postmortem report,” said DC DD ( ) Santosh Pandey.
 
 Sources said they have found that Dutta was in a relationship with a girl who hails from Purulia as well. “They were in a relationship for six years and both had come to Kolkata six months ago for higher studies. When Ram left the flat to him, Dutta wanted her to visit him and called her several times on Thursday. The girl said she was in class and couldn’t take calls. We think he may have committed suicide due to this reason. However, all other inquiries are being made to ascertain the exact reason that drove him to kill himself,” said an officer. 
 
 The postmortem was carried out at RG   and the body was later handed over to his father. 
 
 Dutta’s cousin Subhojit said: “We have come to know that this girl had recently entered into a relationship with my brother’s roommate. This had upset him immensely.”
 
