LUCKNOW: Even as the Congress-SP alliance ruled headlines on Sunday, it was the BJP that played the political masterstroke by declaring Rani Garima Sinh as its   from the eponymous district. 

 Sinh, the estranged wife of Congress's campaign committee chairman and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Sinh, will make her political debut on a BJP ticket. Though a late debutante, Sinh, some would say, has politics in her blood. She is the niece of former PM VP Singh, and is a descendant of the royal family of Daiya. She also enjoys tremendous support among Amethi locals as the 'Rani who was wronged' as her husband got married to Ameeta.
 
 Sinh's candidature from Amethi, a traditional Congress bastion, is likely to have multiple ramifications, not only for the ongoing family feud, but also for the political situations in Amethi. Popular despite her prolonged absence from Amethi, Sinh only returned to the family's Bhupati Bhawan palace in Amethi in July 2014. She, her son Anant Vikram and daughters Mahima and Shaivya have since been locked in a bitter battle for control over the family fortunes with Sanjay Sinh and his second wife Ameeta.
 
 While Congress has steered clear of the family feud, the BJP, sensing its opportunity to cause a royal upset, reached out to the estranged family in 2016. While Anant Vikram and sister Mahima joined the BJP , Garima Sinh was a reluctant politician who now appears to have finally agreed to step out of the palace walls to take guard.
 
 The 2017 assembly polls, in fact, may only serve as a stepping stone for the erstwhile Rani of Amethi, and the BJP may only be preparing her for the next round; the 2019 parliamentary elections, to take on Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, Amethi's incumbent three-term MP.
 
 In the past, the BJP has tried its luck against the Congress scion by fielding Union minister Smriti Irani against Rahul. Though she dented his victory margin, Rahul still won by a landslide, defeating Irani by over one lakh votes. It's early days yet for Garima Sinh, and the local audiences will have to wait for a Rani-versus-Rani battle as the seat has gone to SP candidate Gayatri Prajapati while Amita has been contesting on Congress ticket from here.
 
 
