PANAJI: Protecting Goa from the threats of an error-filled  , that is heavily loaded towards development, has taken a back seat in the February 4 elections, as most parties have routinely assured in their   to complete the plan, shortly.

 The issue of Regional Plan 2021 was an emotive issue in 2012 elections. The plan, with many positives, had sought to protect hill slopes, private forests, cultivable lands and water bodies, as   (ESZ), but the threat lay in erroneously or with malafide intent, showing these eco-fragile areas as settlement or orchard zones, which are available for conversion of land use.
 
 “RP 2021 has probably lost its importance as it was kept on hold. As no serious effort was made to rectify it, as demanded by people, the status quo remained,” an activist admitted.
 
 While the Congress was in the dock for the error-filled and incomplete plan, which was notified in late 2011, BJP tapped the resentment with the promise of taking up the RP issue on a priority basis. But in the last five years, a state-level committee constituted by the government has managed to rectify only three taluka level plans of Satari, Pernem and Canacona. 
 
 BJP has now promised in its manifesto to complete RP 2021 within one year. All views will be considered so that the environment/agricultural land is protected, the manifesto states.
 
 The Congress manifesto has promised to amend RP 2021, and reformulate it under the newly-formed TCP Act. 
 
 Activists have been demanding that the planning should be adopted with a bottom-up approach, involving stakeholders at grass root level, as per 73rd and 74th constitutitional amendments. “Unfortunately, the inputs given by village-level committees during the preparation of RP 2021, about seven years ago, were not incorporated in RP 2021,” alleged John Philip Pereira, an activist from Nagoa.
 
 Maharashtrawadi Gomantak party has promised to redraw RP within a year, and bring it in conformity with the objective of Goa’s sustainable development, as per Article 243 of the Indian Constitution.
 
 AAP has also assured in its manifesto to prepare the plan within a year.
 
 Activists said that the new government will have to re-examine the issue and build up on the existing plan with another decade-long time frame in mind.
 
