LUCKNOW: Veterinary physicians have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from September 25 endangering the conservation plan of Gangatiri cow breed for whom a project was inaugurated by Prime Minister   on Friday.

 “While the PM and chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi are showing concern about conservation of desi cows, they are neglecting those who devote their entire life for the well-being of animals, especially bovines. This is unjustified and will not be tolerated,” warned an agitating vet. There are seven crore cattle and 2,500 vets in the state.
 
 The strike not just raises concern over the health of cattle, but the state may also suffer huge economic losses as veterinarian’s not being on duty will severely affect the meat business and exports. UP exports the highest amount of meat in the country. The dairy industry is also likely to bear the brunt of the strike.
 
 The immediate impact of the strike would be felt by slaughterhouses as their closure would lead to huge financial losses to the state. Under the existing norms, legal abattoirs can only slaughter animals after a no-objection certificate is issued by a government authorised veterinarian.
 
 For the past 10 days, vets have boycotted work resulting in vaccination of cattle, which witness the maximum foot and mouth diseases in monsoon, coming to a halt.
 
 “All state governments have failed us. We have no other choice but to go on indefinite strike to draw the attention of the PM and CM. We demand non-practising allowance and time-bound promotion in our careers,” said Dr  , president of  .
 
 The Centre, through the fifth, sixth and seventh pay commissions, recommended non-practising allowance (NPA) to vets. “Even adjoining states like Uttarakhand, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are giving it, so is UP not doing justice with us,” said Dr Verma, adding that NPA is being given to even medical and dental experts.
 
 Another functionary of the association said, “If the UP government doesn’t support our demands, it will amount to having a negligent and criminal attitude towards animals, especially cows.”
 
 
