NEW DELHI: Gujarat lifted the   for the first time in their history, beating domestic heavyweights Mumbai by five wickets on the last day of the final at Indore's  . This stunning victory came on Saturday, the last day of this engaging summit clash, with Gujarat captain   scoring an excellent 143 to help Gujarat chase down 312.

 It capped a memorable season for Parthiv's team, one that began in the first week of October with a hard-earned three points in a draw with Baroda in Jaipur and featured victories over Railways, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and now the defending champions. Parthiv has become the first Gujarat captain to lift the coveted trophy, and this win against the odds bore his stamp: a first-innings 90 to help his team take the lead, seven dismissals and a sparkling hundred to complete the win. 
 
 This achievement also makes Gujarat the first team to have won all three major domestic titles, the Vijay Hazare Trophy (they are defending champions) and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy (twice) being the others.
 
 The final appeared, in the view of many, a mismatch on paper. Mumbai, 41 time winners, in their 46th final. Five titles in the last 10 years. Gujarat, perennial competitors but rarely title contenders, in their second final in 83 years of the competition. A team, mind you, missing their two most influential bowlers in Jasprit Bumrah (on India duty) and Axar Patel (injured). 
 
 Before this, Mumbai had ended runners-up in just four Ranji finals, the last instance being in 1990-91 when they were left heartbroken and in tears - literally, in Dilip Vengsarkar's case - in a humdinger against Haryana. The others were in 1982-93 against Karnataka, 1979-80 against Delhi and in 1947-48 against erstwhile Holkar. Between the 1958-59 and 1972-73 seasons, Mumbai won 15 consecutive Ranji Trophy titles. Fifteen. Gujarat's only appearance in a final was back in 1950-51 when they lost to Holkar by 189 runs. 
 
 Set a target of 312 after Mumbai were all out for 411 in their second innings, Gujarat began the fifth day on 47/0 and lost the prolific Priyank Panchal without a run added, edging Balwinder Sandhu to second slip. Four runs later, Sandhu bowled Bhargav Merai for 2 to bring to the crease the skipper, Parthiv. Mumbai struck for a third time when opener   edged   to wicketkeeper Aditya Tare, but then came a stabilizing stand of 116 between Parthiv and Manpreet Juneja, who made 54. 
 
 This stand pushed Mumbai back, and was a big reason for a successful chase. At 205/4 when Juneja feathered a catch off spinner Akhil Herwadkar to Tare, the Mumbai captain's in-your-face reaction to the batsman left a sour taste in the mouth (whether he receives a reprimand from the match officials remains to be seen). Moments later, Parthiv inside-edged Herwadkar for two runs to reach his century, the second by a Gujarat player in a Ranji final after Jasu Patel's 152 in 1950-51. 
 
 Tare dropped a regulation catch to give a life to Rujul Bhatt on 1, and that allowed the batsman to add 94-run stand with Parthiv. Mumbai will rue some poor catching all throughout the final, which played a part in their defeat.
 
