MUMBAI: The Maharashtra transport ministry will provide two-wheeler and four-wheeler learner's licences on college campuses in Mumbai.

 The drive will kick off at   in Dadar on January 16. Officials said students consisted of a large percentage of applicants, so this drive would be a good way of taking away crowd from overburdened regional transport offices (RTOs). Besides, students will not have to waste time in queues at RTOs. “All necessary documents will be required and verified, and licences will be issued,“ an official said. Senior transport officials said at least one RTO officer would be deployed at every college to impart knowledge on road safety and traffic rules, and conduct tests. “The   test will be conducted in the college lab, where the RTO's software will be uploaded on computers. Every computer will display different questions, so nobody can copy answers and tests are conducted transparently ,“ an officer said.
 
 It will take around an hour to evaluate the answers and distribute licences after the test.Initially, a website will be created for colleges for the purpose. The local RTO will crea te a website for colle ges for the purpose of issuing learner's licence to students. Applicants can log in with their college ID card number and other details and register for the test after providing the necessary proof online. The transport department later plans to include `college' as an option in the official software for online registrations, scanning of documents (proof), and payment of fees online.
 
 Sources told TOI that in future college principals will be empowered to issue licences. “If principals are authorised, they will have to ensure adequate material in college libraries on traffic rules and road safety , and a simulator for students to be trained in driving skills,“ said another official. RTO officers will also visit colleges and give lectures on road safety and traffic rules. The local RTO may also outsource issuing of learner's licences in colleges for all in future, the sources added.
 
  principal Suhas Pednekar said, “I appreciate the move. It will help students save time standing in queues and also money paid to agents. If colleges cooperate, students will also welcome it.“
 
 (Inputs from Yogita Rao)
 
 
