NAGPUR: The district and sessions court on Saturday acquitted all the accused in the sensational   murder case. 

 District and sessions judge-I   discharged all the accused in the case for lack of evidence and failure of prosecution to prove their case. Three of the 21 accused in case had died during the course of hearing, while one of them remained on the run and was never produced before the court.
 
 Two of the accused who were acquitted are also being tried under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Crime Act (MCOCA). 
 
 Those acquitted in the case include prime accused Sheikh Haji, his father Sheikh Sarwar, Manoj Kankam, Abrar Sayyad, Muhammad Hanif Roshan Afsar Sheikh, Vajid Sheikh, all from Ghugus, along with Naresh Jankapure, Yogesh Mangate, Rakesh Gadekar, Mahesh Patil, Shailesh Salame, Babloo Aziz, Datta Kalyankar, Avinash Ghude and Fahim.
 
 Two other accused,   and Gulam Gaus, too have been acquitted, but they have offence registered against them under MCOCA.
 
 Three other accused, including Pravin Diwte, Kishor Pandit and Arif Roshan, died while the case was under trail. Sources claimed that the prosecution is likely to appeal in the high court against the acquittal.
 
 Then district vice-president of   youth wing, Pol was hacked to death by a gang of assailants in broad daylight on a busy street in the industrial town of Ghugus on June 28, 2012. The sensational murder was suspected to be the outcome of a rivalry over illegal coal trade in Ghugus dotted with many WCL mines.
 
 His rival in coal trade, Sheikh Haji, and his accomplice were blamed for the murder and were arrested. The case later took a twist after the local crime branch took over the investigations and came up with the theory of Sheikh Haji hatching a conspiracy and hiring contract killers to kill Pol.
 
 A 482-page chargesheet was filed with the district and sessions court on September 21, 2012, in the case. 
 
 “The prosecution failed to prove its murder theory beyond all the doubt before the court. Thus, the court acquitted all the accused in the case,” said one of the defendant’s lawyer adv Vikarm Tandon.
 
