MUMBAI: The process for accepting applications for the populist loan   scheme will begin from Monday and the state government will give   a month to apply for it.

 Chief minister Devendra   said the state government will also table supplementary demands for approval by the legislature, in which they will budget a large chunk of funds for the waiver. He declined to comment on the amount that will be budgeted as it is the privileged of the legislature, but said it will the largest loan waiver in the country, and is a befitting reply to critics who say these are mere announcements.
 
 “Nearly 25,000 online centres will be created across the state to help farmers fill application forms. The Aadhaar number will be mandatory while filing the form,” Fadnavis told a press conference a day before the monsoon session of the legislature begins on Monday.
 
 He said the government had restricted the things to be filled in the form to four, besides the name and age details. The Aadhaar number, account number in which the loan was taken and then not repaid, account details of wife and minor children and a declaration which states that he fits the eligibility criteria set by the government and is not part of any category barred from the scheme.
 
 According to a government notification, many sections of people, like government officials, who draw a salary of more than Rs 20,000 a month, political leaders or people with vehicles costing more than Rs 10 lakh, have been barred too from the scheme.
 
 Fadnavis said they had developed an online platform to monitor the exercise to avoid a repeat of irregularities during the 2008 waiver. “We will complete scrutiny of the applications in 12-15 days.” He declined to comment on the time-frame in which money will reach the farmers’ accounts.
 
 Taking a dig at the rift in the Opposition, Fadnavis said perhaps it was the first time in the state’s history that the Opposition was holding separate press conferences. He said the only person common between the Congress-NCP was their typist. “I have received letters from both, most of the content is same, including commas, full-stops and para-spacing. It looks like the only thing common for the Opposition is their typist, which is unfortunate,” said Fadnavis.
 
 
