CHANDIGARH:   chief minister   on Wednesday claimed that the   who are spearheading the ongoing agitation for reservation were changing their stand and adding new conditions, which could complicate the situation.

 “Earlier, the   agitators had raised only seven demands. But now their demands have increased to 28 and they are insisting on not holding any dialogue on the earlier demands. They are in the mode of shifting the goal posts and their attitude could make the situation even more complicated,” the CM said on the floor of the state assembly. He was responding to the adjournment motions, regarding indefinite dharnas of the members of the Jat community at various places, moved by several MLAs.
 
 Khattar also offered to form either a House committee with the consent of the speaker or by the state government to hold talks with the agitators so that the issue could be resolved at the earliest. He said his government was committed to restore faith among all sections of the society and that any attempt to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in Haryana would not be tolerated at any cost.
 
 The CM, however, appreciated the peaceful manner in which the Jat reservation agitation has been conducted so far. He also appealed to the agitators not to use indecent language and refrain from making comments against individuals during their protest. He also sought the cooperation of opposition parties to resolve the issue and denied the allegation that his government was neither willing to talk to the agitators nor accepting their genuine demands. He termed as baseless, false and incorrect the allegations that some ministers, or ruling party leaders, were trying to divide the communities or were playing a double game by not holding talks with the agitators.
 
 Although Khattar did not confirm whether the state was willing to withdraw the cases against agitators, he made it clear that the investigation of all cases registered on account of violence and other types of crime during the Jat reservation agitation in February 2016 were being monitored by the the Punjab and Haryana high court. 
 
 “As the matter is sub judice in the high court and some of the demands cannot be fulfilled by the government, being out of jurisdiction, it was not possible to accept the complete charter of demands as it is with immediate effect,” the CM told the House.
 
 
 
 
 CM Mahohar Lal Khattar told the House that no innocent person was arrested by the government during the February 2016 stir for Jat reservation. The violators were arrested on the basis of evidence, he said. The police had also arrested those who were involved in attack on Chotu Ram Dharmashala in Jhajjar. The state government has also decided to provide job to one family member of those who died during the agitation, he said. Regarding demand for reservation in the Centre, a committee had been constituted under the chairmanship of Union minister Venkaiah Naidu to look into the matter.
 
 
