PACHISA (SITAPUR): Residents in   have some wisdom to offer to those who waste their vote. 

 Every election day, each voter in Pachisa has to cross two rivers by boat and walk for more than 8km to reach the polling booth. The process takes around four hours. When a boat is unavailable, they swim. Every child and adult here knows how to swim.
 
 The painstaking journey also includes walking on sand—it is like walking with 2-3 kg of weight tied at the ankle—but that has failed to deter the spirit of the 468 voters of the village in all elections. In 2014 Lok Sabha elections, poll percentage for the village was 58.7 %, close to state average of 59%. 
 
 A majra (part) of Gaulok Gondar village, Pachisa was washed away eight years ago when the might Ghaghra river changed its course during annual floods. When the fury subsided, residents found themselves near the intersection of Ghaghra and Sharda rivers. 
 
 There is immense penury in the village. All the 200-odd families live in thatched houses without drinking water and sanitation facilities. 
 
 Bringing electricity to the place is impossible because there is no place to install poles. There are no roads either to transport heavy machinery. 
 
 Only a few children in the village go to school while the nearest community health centre is at least 40 km away. The people in the village have never seen an ambulance. 
 
 The families get visitors from various political parties in the election season. Like always, the locals greet them with tea and snacks but know won’t get their due. 
 
 “Char chunao beet gaye... neta log wada kiye par diye kuchou nahi... ha barkha ma tirpal mil jaat hai (Four elections have passed since we were displaced. What we got in all these are mere promises and a relief kit during monsoon),” rued 70-year-old Goleram. 
 
 Still people take the pains to fulfil their democratic duty. Those who can’t go regret the distance. Shanti Devi, for instance, has developed age-related arthritis and cannot walk long distances. 
 
 “My vote will go waste this time. Had the polling station been close by, I would have managed to go somehow... But I feel I will die if I walk so much,” she said. 
 
 Shanti’s daughter-in-law Srimati will also not be able to vote as she is very weak. “She delivered a baby four days ago. She is weak and won’t be able to walk),” she said. 
 
