Gurgaon:   on Tuesday met various private colonisers like DLF, Ansal, Unitech, Ardee and Suncity, regarding   of their colonies. In the day-long session, several aspects of the proposed takeover were discussed. Several residents of each colony, who have been demanding the civic body takeover their areas, also attended the meet.

 While no definitive roadmap has been laid out regarding the takeover, 2018 has been set as its outer time limit, though it could also be done in two to six months’ time. Municipal commissioner V Umashankar said the transfer would depend mainly on two things — the developer agreeing to finish all deficient infrastructure work, or agreeing to pay MCG for completing the deficient work. If, however, the private developer is unwilling to meet either condition, the process of cancelling their licence will be initiated.
 
 “A fact-finding committee has been formed. It consists of three private consultants, who will visit all private colonies we’re planning to take over in the initial phase. By June 15, they will prepare and submit an estimate of deficiencies, as well as the cost MCG will have to bear to maintain these colonies over the next five years. We will then offer the private colonisers the option of completing the deficient work, giving them a window of six months for it. However, if the coloniser wants us to do the job, it will have to pay us,” said Umashankar.
 
 “In the event a developer does not wish to accept either option, we will initiate the process of cancelling its license. The colony will then automatically get transferred to us,” he said.
 
 At the meeting, Ardee Infrastructure informed MCG they have not taken occupation certificate for Ardee City, as its zoning plan is yet to be completed. It was decided that in the absence of a complete zoning plan and occupation certificate, as of now, this colony will not be taken over by MCG.
 
 “We’ve asked Ardee to take up the issue of pending occupation certificates with department of town and country planning (DTCP). Residents can also approach RERA if they wish to ensure the builder obtains the certificates. Right now, we’re planning to take over only those private colonies that have taken partial completion certificates or occupation certificates,” said Umashankar. 
 
 Unhappy with the decision, attending Ardee City residents staged a walkout. “The authorities are trying to fool and mislead us. They are making us run from pillar to post. On the one hand, the builder is purposefully not obtaining occupation certificates. 
 
 On the other, MCG says without this certificate, it cannot take over our colony. The question is, if the builder does not obtain the occupation certificate in say the next 20 years, it would imply our colony won’t be transferred to MCG. We were asked to approach RERA, which is another labyrinth. That’s why we walked out,” said Praveen Yadav, a resident.
 
 
