NAGPUR: Even before the February 21 contest for holding reins of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation began, many major political parties received a jolt after nomination forms of their candidates were found invalid.

 As many as 1,809 contestants had filed papers for the 151-member   House. The scrutiny of papers began at 11am on Saturday. As the number of forms was too high, the scrutiny process continued till late night, said a senior official from the NMC’s election department. Many candidates, whose forms were rejected, also argued with the returning officers. This too caused delay in scrutiny process, the official added.
 
 Congress received a similar jolt when its candidate Ranjana Bobde’s form (from Ward 35) was held invalid. This left two women contestants from among the national parties   and BSP in the ring for the seat reserved for general (woman). Even nomination forms of NCP and Shiv Sena candidates from the same seat too were found invalid.
 
 In Hanuman Nagar zone, 122 nomination forms were received of which seven were found invalid. The officer added that the nomination form of BSP candidate   was found invalid as she did not attach any affidavit. Similarly, NCP candidate Sujit Gajbhiye landed in trouble after his caste validity certificate was found missing. Subsequently, his form was declared invalid. Another candidate   failed to submit notarized affidavit. The trio had filed nominations from Prabhags 31, 32 and 33. Of the 12 zones, the NMC’s election department could release data of invalid candidates from 9 zones till late night.
 
 Meanwhile, Shiv Sena activists gheraoed city party president Satish Harde at party’s Ganeshpeth office for denying tickets to many party workers for the civic polls.
 
 Forms validity
 
 Zones R V
 
 Laxmi Nagar---4----81
 
 Dharampeth---18----120
 
 Hanuman Nagar---13-----99
 
 Dhantoli---24----98
 
 Nehru Nagar---1---135
 
 Gandhibagh---__---__
 
 Satranjipura---__---__
 
 Lakadganj---__---__
 
 Ashi Nagar---2---188
 
 Mangalwari---23---142
 
 RGGB---14---135
 
 Durga Nagar--- 12---120
 
 (R:-Rejected; V:-Valid)
 
