LUCKNOW: Known for its large   and for being the agricultural trade centre for  ,   will soon become an industrial hub with the   attracting traders to come and set up agro-based industries there.

 Mill owners and mandi shopkeepers told TOI that in the past one year, many traders from Delhi, Haryana and Punjab have come to expressed their desire to set up industries here, eyeing an opportunity of easy and smooth transport of processed food products to Mandis of Lucknow, Delhi and Gujarat via the Aeway.
 
 Udbhav Singh, a renowned mill owner, said, “Bangarmau is known for the largest potato mandi and highest maize production in Unnao and Kanpur.Many traders from Delhi and Haryana are looking at it as a venue to set up food processing plants to manufacture potato chips, juices and confectioneries which can be transported easily to markets in Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Gujarat and Delhi via Agra e-way. Some have even approached us to supply maize in bulk.“
 
 Bangarmau has half a dozen big flour and maize mills, a dozen rice mills, large cold storage for potatoes and numerous mandis for green vegetables and fruit. The launch of the expressway in November facilitated farmers, mill and mandi owners significantly as they are able to transport their produce to man dis of Gorakhpur, Delhi and Lucknow in almost half the time it used to take earlier.
 
 Mandi owner Jameel Ahmad said, “Once the eway is opened for trucks, we would be able to supply potatoes and muskmelon in bulk to Lucknow in less than two hours. Even supply to Mahewa mandi of Gorakhpur, which took six hours, will now take only four hours.“
 
 Shopkeepers said the expressway can help them reach more markets in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab as now they are directly connected to Agra. Maize mill owner Sanjeev Kumar said, “Earlier, the trucks took two days to reach Delhi as they had to halt at Agra after travelling from Bangarmau for one full night.They reached Delhi after another night's journey but now they will reach in only a day as they will join the Yamuna Expressway from Agra. Freight charges have reduced to almost half to benefit entrepreneurs as well as farmers.“
 
 The e-way has also solved the problem of transporting perishable commodities on time as trucks carrying fruit and vegetables to mandis of other cities will reach in almost half the time. Singh added that UP government has proposed many cold storage for potatoes along the e-way like in Kannauj and Safipur. This will help farmers sell potatoes at profitable rates and prevent rotting.There is a big demand in Delhi and Haryana."
 
