UDUPI: Hotel food may be considered unhealthy, but here is a   which serves food which is more delicious and healthy than homemade meals.

 The canteen in Siribidu uses earthen pots for cooking, to bring back old traditions and culture along with health benefits. The health benefit of preparing food in earthen pots was known to our ancestors, and has been an intrinsic part of the Indian kitchen. However, the tradition vanished with the arrival of steel and aluminum vessels.
 
 The canteen, in business for about 15 years now, started using earthen pot only four months ago. They serve palav for Rs 40, which includes more leafy green vegetables and rice. Healthy seeds, dry fruits, ghee, pickle and curd give the food an original taste. “We use 35 healthy ingredients in the palav. People who are health conscious come here for their meal,” said Narayan, the cook at the canteen.
 
 Ganesh, a customer, said, “I have food here every day. From my experience, I bet no expensive food matches the health benefits available here. Many people think that paying more gives you healthier food, it’s not so. We should prepare such food at home too, and include rural medicinal plants which are ignored.”
 
 On the health benefit of clay pots, Dr Chandra Shekhar Aithal from Udupi said, “Clay has a porous quality. While cooking, heat and moisture circulate through the pot, unlike in metal or enamel-lined pots. Most pots are made with micaceous clay (clay containing mica flecks), which acts as a natural insulator. The speciality of these pots is that the clay is alkaline based, hence it interacts with acidity in the food, neutralizing the pH balance. Cooking in clay pots gives you calcium, phosphorus, iron, magnesium, sulphur and several other compounds that benefit our body. It has the power to control diabetes and blood pressure.”
 
 The original Udupi fish curry is prepared in clay pots in villages. Shankari, 67, from Nellikatte, Udupi, said this fish curry can be had for three days without it spoiling. In fact, as it matures, the taste improves, and it just needs to be heated every day.
 
 “Making rice in clay pots is difficult because it should be handled with care, but curry can be made easily. I love dishes prepared in pots. These pots are naturally very acidic; hence when we cook tomato in it, it gets a natural sweetness,” said Shankari.
 
 
