COIMBATORE: The hunger strike by the rebel faction of   demanding a through probe into the death of former chief minister   turned into a marathon session to slam party general secretary VK Sasikala. 

 AIADMK functionaries who spoke at the day-long hunger strike at Sivananda Colony, which witnessed a huge turnout of party workers, squarely blamed Sasikala for the death of Jayalalithaa. Refusing to accept the AIMMS report on Jayalalithaa's death, they said their fight against Sasikala would continue until the truth behind the demise comes out. The protesters also vowed to save the party from the clutches of Sasikala and her family members.
 
 Several key AIADMK functionaries, including sitting MLAs PRG Arun Kumar, VC Arukutty, OK Chinnaraj, former mayor P Rajkumar, former minister Damodaran and former MP KC Palaniswamy participated in the hunger strike called by O Panneerselvam. Film directors R Sundararajan and Pavithran too took part in the protest.
 
 "The central government should order a through probe and bring out all facts regarding the health condition of Jayalalithaa and unanswered questions surrounding her death,'' said former state dairy development minister PV Damodaran. "Our protests will not end with this hunger strike. We are chalking out our next course of action," he said.
 
 Kavundampalayam MLA VC Arukutty, who was among the first crop of AIADMK functionaries to switch over to the OPS camp, came down heavily on Sasikala. "She is in no way connected to the AIADMK. She was living in the shadow of Amma but is desperate to capture the party now,'' he said. "All the party cadres are strongly behind those who genuinely toiled for the growth of the party and not behind Sasikala,'' he said.
 
 Director Pavithran likened OPS to AIADMK founder   and said he would make a huge impact on thepolitical scene of   like the latter did in 1972. "OPS is facing obstacles now. But he will overcome these and emerge a succesfull leader," he said.
 
 A large number of cadres, inclduing women from across the district, thronged the fast venue. A similar fast was held in Tirupur where sitting MP Sathyabama participated.
 
