Ghaziabad: A 35-year-old man was allegedly shot at by two bike-borne assailants in Nandgram area of Ghaziabad on Monday as he tried to resist a loot bid. The robbers, however, managed to snatch a bag from the man with cash worth Rs 1.25 lakh, said police.

 David, who works as a collection agent with a mobile SIM distribution firm in Gandhi Nagar, left his home with the cash around 12pm on Monday on a motorcycle when he was attacked.
 
 “The assailants were definitely aware about his movements. They were waiting for him at the corner of a lane barely 200 metres away from our house. Locals saw them attacking my husband. He was rushed to the hospital by the cops who reached the spot soon after the incident,” David’s wife told TOI. 
 
 A bullet fired by the robbers hit David’s arm.
 
 David was rushed to the MMG Hospital for treatment where doctors discharged him after treatment.
 
 On the basis of a complaint filed by David, Ghaziabad police have registered an FIR in Sihani Gate police station under Section 394 (causing hurt in committing  ) of the IPC.
 
 “David has told us that he was taking the cash to a bank. According to him, there were two assailants who attacked him but he is unable to give a proper description of their bike. It doesn’t seem that he suffered the injury because of the gunshot, but we are investigating the matter,” said Parshuram, SHO, Sihani Gate police station.
 
 The incident on Monday is the fourth such case of robbery reported in the past one week in Ghaziabad where bike-borne assailants have either opened fire or attacked their victims during loot bid.
 
 On May 7, two bike-borne robbers opened fire on a Hyundai Ascent after snatching gold chain from a woman in front of St Thomas School in the busy Indirapuram area. The car driver had a narrow escape. A day later, a 29-year-old employee of a mobile SIM distribution firm was shot at in his neck in Kavi Nagar when he resisted a loot attempt by bike-borne men. The men fled with Rs 1.80 lakh cash. 
 
 On May 14, two cattle traders were allegedly looted of Rs 52,000 cash by bike-borne assailants in Dasna, where one of them sustained a head injury after being hit with the butt of a gun. “There seems to be a definite pattern in which these robberies have been carried out over the past one week. We are suspecting the role of specific gangs. Motorbikes of different makes have been used in the incidents. We have concrete leads in the Kavi Nagar incident and the incident that took place in Nandgram on Monday. Arrests will be carried out very soon," SP (City) Akash Tomar told TOI. 
 
 
