MUMBAI: Dadar police on Tuesday arrested a fifth person in connection with Bombay Hospital Dr Deepak Amrapurkar’s accidental   death following heavy rain on August 29. Police arrested Raj Nitin Shiriskar (28), a resident of Suparsh Building at   Road. Police are looking for another person who was part of the group that opened the   cover, due to which Dr Amrapurkar fell and drowned.

 Families of the accused said police had wrongly booked their kin. “If police are so keen to arrest those responsible, they must first book BMC officials for causing the death of seven persons. It was BMC’s failure, it could not prevent flooding. My son and other   opened the manhole with good intentions so that the flood water recedes,” said an angry parent waiting outside Arthur Road prison, to receive her son who was released on surety bail on Tuesday.
 
 Shiriskar told police he opened the manhole as the water had reached three-and-a-half feet below his building, and his toilet was choked. He said he did it for his mother who had arthritis.
 
 Advocate Sandeep Barve, who appeared for the first four accused, said, “My clients have been wrongly implicated. They opened the manhole cover to help people.” They were released on surety bail of Rs 15,000 each on Sunday. “The arrests will send a strong message to society. If this happens, nobody will help anybody in case of a national calamity or disaster,” said a relative.
 
 Police said on Monday an identification parade (IP) was held at Arthur Road, but few witnesses turned up to identify the four. “Most witnesses are neighbours, so they choose to skip the parade. Two policemen are among witnesses who identified the four accused,” said an officer. 
 
 Police had on Saturday arrested Siddesh Bhelsekar (25), Rakesh Kadam (38), his younger brother Nilesh and Dinaar Pawar (36). While Nilesh plays in a band, Dinaar is a driver with a private company.
 
 Police invoked IPC section 304(A) of causing death by negligence. The accused were not authorised to open the manhole and they did not even put a signboard or something to indicate that it was open, which was negligence, said an officer.
 
