PUNE:   doesn’t quite know   by his name but he recognizes him by his rags to riches story.

 “Yes, I have heard about him. He is a lucky man and just a picture made him a star in Pakistan. Even I don’t look bad and don’t shy away from a photo opportunity these days. Who knows, my luck will click too,” said Triveni, who has been  .
 
 17-year-old Khan sold tea in an Islamabad market and was photographed in October. The picture was uploaded on Instagram. No sooner did the   that Khan’s good looks, got him worldwide fame. He has since won modelling contracts and has featured in a music album back home. Recently, Khan was listed among the best looking Asian men in the world by a British newspaper.
 
 Back in Pune, the chaiwalas have mixed feelings about the overnight success.
 
 Arun Bopde, who is in his mid-twenties and sells tea near lane number seven in Koregaon Park, laughed when he heard about Khan. “A while ago I had seen his picture in a newspaper and thought that he was so lucky. From a simple tea seller to a star it is quite a rise just because of one picture. As you know, Koregaon Park sees several foreign nationals and many a times tourists move along here clicking our pictures. I have even posed for some photographs nicely hoping that my clicks come out good. You never know, my future might turn out differently just like Arshad Khan,” Bopde said.
 
 At Kondhwa, 21-year-old Mohammad Altamas has been selling tea from a makeshift stall in front of Konark Mall since nearly two years now. When asked about Arshad, he didn’t appear quite interested. “Yes, I have heard about him but I don’t have time to daydream. I have lots of work. I’m the sole bread earner of my family. In his case, he got lucky and he is genuinely good looking. If I just think that luck will smile on me in the same way and lose my focus, I will surely lose customers as well. I don’t want to think about all that,” Altamas said.
 
 Ravi Shankar Mishra, another middle-aged tea vendor also shared the same sentiments. “Ours is a daily struggle to make both ends meet. Each day we work very hard to earn our livelihood. However, the problems have increased post-demonetization. In such a scenario, I cannot think about one Arshad Khan, who luckily made it big. Currently, I’m worried about dealing with the cash situation and earning decent money each day,” said Mishra, who sets up his stall in the Kalyani Nagar area.
 
