CHENNAI: More than eight years after   paved the way for the third gender by rolling out a series of welfare schemes, including free sex reassignment surgery, the procedure is finding fewer takers in government hospitals. 

 Heena, a   in Chennai, who recently underwent breast augmentation at Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, shared her experience . “The procedure was done so sloppily. To my horror, I discovered the implants were not aligned properly,” said the 23-year-old, who underwent the process a second time in a private hospital in Bengaluru.
 
 According to data obtained by TOI through RTI, Heena is the only one who underwent breast augmentation in a government hospital this year. The annual number of transsexuals registering for the free sex reassignment surgery (SRS) offered by the state -- including emasculation (removal of penis and testicles), vaginoplasty (creation of vagina) and breast implantation -- dropped from 85 in 2014 to 38 in 2016. In 2017, only ten people registered for the procedure till June 30.
 
 TOI had also sought details of the number of people who actually underwent the surgery in   and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMCH) – the two hospitals tasked with implementing the scheme. 
 
 However, only the latter furnished these details. Of the eight people who sought advice from doctors, only two returned for the surgery. Dr Nirmala Ponnambalam, head of the department of Burns, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, said this was quite common. 
 
 “Less than 30% of them return after we explain the process. They all want it done quickly without any counselling,” she said. She acknowledged there were complications in a few post the surgery. “But that is because they don’t wait to heal. We’ve had people taking off when the catheters are still attached to them,” she said. The entire procedure takes, on an average, six months. 
 
 Transsexuals are required to get a letter of consent from the   and a certificate from a psychologist before going under the knife. 
 
 K Vijayan, who retired as a clinical psychologist from the Institute of  , Kilpauk, in 2015, said many of the transsexuals were reluctant to take a psychological assessment. 
 
 “We need at least 4-5 sessions with them to assess if their decision was taken with a clear mind and they have no underlying psychiatric problem,” he said, adding that the state should do more than just offer free surgeries. 
 
