PUNE: It may be winter in Pune, but temperatures are rising in the   (BJP) camp.

 The party's loyal support base in the city is upset over the party giving nominations to kin and outsiders.
 
 The  , who were relied upon to garner support for the BJP in the 2014 assembly elections, have voiced their disappointment over not seeing the faces of   at many places going to the polls.
 
 The move has caused so much heartburn to the party members that they have even considered staying away from voting in the elections. The BJP, which is pulling all out all stops to gain power in PMC, has given tickets to more than 10 corporators who have not only defected from other parties but are also relatives of prominent leaders within the party. The names of candidates were revealed barely few minutes before the deadline for filing of nominations on Friday.
 
 The workers are unhappy over the party giving tickets to Reshma Bhosale, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and wife of senior NCP leader and MLC Anil Bhosale, MP Anil Shirole's son Siddharth and to relatives of sitting MLAs.
 
 A party supporter for many years said it was beyond imagination how a party like BJP can welcome leaders from other parties and give them tickets at the last moment. “This shows that party workers are not taken into consideration during the time of finalisation of contestants. BJP should maintain its status as a party with a difference, otherwise it will be like any other political party“, supporter said.
 
 The supporters' disappointment was more visible on social media platforms with many expressing their dismay.
 
 A young party worker doubted the strategy of senior leaders and party. He said, “Sangh Parivar and its cadre were responsible for the BJP's victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. It was for the first time in party's history that people had voted in BJP's favour and ensured a clean sweep in all eight Assembly seats in the city. The cadres will now be disillusioned because many candidates have been `imported' from NCP and Congress,“ the worker said.
 
 A party member closely associated with the Sangh cadre pointed that discussions have already started among the workers about the BJP's move. Certainly, there is disappointment,“ he said.
 
 BJP sources have said that they will have to work hard to convince the disgruntled voters and supporters. “Workers are unhappy because of denial of tickets to their leaders. It will not be an easy task to convince workers and ensure that they do not refrain from campaigning and voting. Party leaders will now have to work on two fronts -to convince workers and ensure that they cast votes wholeheartedly,“ sources said.
 
