Gurgaon: A 24-year-old woman returning home from a birthday party died in a road accident in the early hours of Friday after her   crashed into the back of truck near   on the Gurgaon-Delhi expressway. 

 At the wheel was her friend and former colleague, Ashwini Bisht (29), who survived the crash and is being treated at Medanta. Yuganshi Sharma (24), a consultant with   (IICA) in Manesar, was in the passenger seat. She had died by the time passersby got her to the hospital in an auto. 
 
 Considering that the truck was moving, and was ahead of the Swift that Bisht was driving, police believe it was a high-speed crash. Yuganshi’s father has alleged Bisht was drunk when he was driving, and had asked her for a lift in her Swift. Later, he alleged, Bisht had insisted on being allowed to drive. The accident happened around 2am near Naharpur. The truck driver managed to flee. 
 
 Yuganshi was from Keshavpuram in Delhi but lived in Manesar on the IICA campus. On Thursday night, she attended a birthday party in Gurgaon and was on her way back to Manesar. There, she met Bisht, who works with an Udyog Vihar-based company. He is from Dehradun. 
 
 Eyewitness Amit Kumar, a resident of Shiv Nagar, was in an auto with some of his friends when the Swift ploughed into the truck. “We heard a loud noise so we stopped our auto on the service lane and ran to the main road. The car was badly damaged and both the woman and man were injured and unconscious. We rushed both to Medanta in our auto. We also informed the police, who reached the hospital. The woman was declared dead on arrival,” Kumar said. 
 
 Yuganshi was identified with the help of her identity card. Her father Rajesh, who rushed to Medanta after being informed by the police, filed a complaint against Bisht, who has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving), 336 (endangering the lives of others), 427 (causing damage), 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Sadar police station. 
 
 “The man’s carelessness killed my daughter. His thrill for speed turned fatal for Yuganshi. Police informed us he was drunk,” said Rajesh Sharma. Police, however, said they were waiting for medical reports. “The man who was driving the car is not fit enough to give a statement. We have informed his family but they are yet to arrive,” said Ramniwas, the investigating officer.
 
 
