PATNA: Chief minister   on Monday supported PM Narendra Modi’s idea of holding simultaneous elections to the   and state assemblies, but ruled out any possibility of having midterm polls in Bihar because of the ongoing debate on the issue.

 “Holding simultaneous elections is, in principle, a very good proposal. It will not only reduce the period of election atmosphere, but also provide maximum time to the elected governments for work. I support the idea, but it will require certain amendments to the Constitution,”   told reporters on the sidelines of his weekly ‘Lok Samvad’ programme here.
 
 “I, in fact, support the idea of holding all elections — Lok Sabha, state assemblies, panchayati raj Institutions and urban local bodies — simultaneously because it would reduce the period of polls at a gap of five years. Elections to all bodies completing five years should be held simultaneously,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, said.
 
 He pointed out that till 1967,   elections were held with the Lok Sabha polls, but the practice was stopped later after political instability in some states.
 
 He said if all the elections were to be held simultaneously, the Constitution would have to make provisions to continue the term of a house for full five years. Otherwise, it would not happen. “We will have to make certain amendments in The Constitution for that,” he argued. 
 
 To a question whether he would support midterm election in Bihar in case of simultaneous elections, Nitish asked where from the question arose? He said, as per the initial dialogue started by the NITI Aayog, the simultaneous Lok Sabha and assembly polls are to be held only from 2024. “Let the nation debate over it. If consensus emerges, we will support the idea,” he said.
 
 Nitish further said JD(U) state president   had supported the idea a few days back, but his opinion was misinterpreted by a few people. “They projected it as if I am in favour of midterm election in Bihar. This is not the fact,” the CM clarified.
 
