NAGPUR: Following the failure of   to pay Rs40.33 crore as directed by the  , the   (NIT) issued a show cause notice for cancellation of allotment and  .

 While refusing to interfere with Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s orders directing the NIT to recover additional premium and ground rent for extra FSI granted for its prime government land on North Ambazari Road, the apex court, on March 24, granted liberty to the Sabha to file an appeal with state government against levy of Rs163 crore premium by NIT. 
 
 While dismissing Sabha’s SLP, the top court directed it to pay Rs40.33 crore within a month which it has failed to do.
 
 A bench comprising Chief Justice of India JS Kehar, justice Dhananjaya Chandrachud, and justice Sanjay Kaul had clarified that there would be automatic stay to the recovery of Rs123 crores if Sabha makes a payment of Rs40.33 crores to NIT. In the event if the undertaking given by Sabha is not honoured then it had directed that authorities should recover the amount from other beneficiaries. 
 
 Wockhardt Hospitals was, however, exonerated from making payment of premium, as it has no direct allotment in its name.
 
 In its notice issued last week, NIT asked Sabha to immediately pay an amount as directed by top court. It also warned of initiating contempt proceedings and forcible recovery/cancellation of lease and registration of Sabha.
 
 On a plea by ‘Citizens Forum for Equality’ president Madhukar Kukde through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Atul Chandurkar, on September 7 last year, sternly directed NIT to undertake fresh decisions on quantum of lease premium and ground rent charged by Sabha at first renewal from March 31, 1991-2021.
 
 The trust was further told to calculate lease premium after change of user from Sabha to Wockhardt from February 21, 2004, to March 31, 2021, for additional FSI, as per the Land Disposal Rules, 1983. NIT was asked to complete the exercise within three months after giving an opportunity of hearing to the Sabha. The trust was asked to recover arrears in 12 equal bimonthly instalments, either from the Sabha or from Wockhardt, either jointly or severally. The HC asked NIT and Sabha to pay Rs10,000 cost each to petitioner.
 
 Demanding seizure of Sabha and its members’ properties, Kukde alleged a loss of Rs100 crore to the exchequer due to illegal leasing out the government land to Sabha for promotion of Hindi language by NIT bypassing the mandatory provisions of Land Disposal Rules, 1986.
 
