AURANGABAD:   University of Health Sciences ( ) vice-chancellor   on Friday said the newly introduced skill-based fellowships started by the varsity would help in creating more number of super-specialist doctors.

 Addressing the 11th annual conference of Research Society for the Study of   in India (RSSDI), Maharashtra state chapter on Saturday, Mhaisekar expressed concern over the poor ratio between doctors and patients as compared to other progressive countries.
 
 “The   has recommended a doctor-patient ratio of 1:1000, but in India the ratio is skewed to 1:6000. Efforts are on at the national level to increase the undergraduate and postgraduate seats in state-run medical colleges, which in turn will increase the number of doctors,” he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Mhaisekar said large hospitals, research centres and MUHS-affiliated colleges can start the skill-based fellowships. “The skill-based scholarships will be offered in medical, dental, ayurveda, unani, homeopathy and other recognised health sciences. Completing fellowship is one of the most sought after academic activities by doctors after completing their post-graduation and MUHS will cater to these needs,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar said skill-based fellowships provide an option for medical students to improve their skills in specified areas by staying within the country. “Doctors go to foreign countries for obtaining fellowships as no effective alternative is available in the country. The MUHS has resolved for providing such an alternative,” he said.
 
 The Nashik-based state-run health university also has plans to revamp existing fellowship courses offered through its recognition. “We have devised minimum standards of requirement that need to reflect in every fellowship onwards, including proposed skill-based fellowships,” the V-C said.
 
 MUHS authorities said corporate hospitals can also emerge as idea centres for offering skill-based fellowships. The last for submission of application on behalf of institutions and hospital for the said fellowships is February 20. The fellowships are slated to be available for students from academic year 2017-18.
 
 Established in 1998, the MUHS has jurisdiction over entire state with mandate of coordinating the health education offered in Maharashtra.
 
 Meanwhile, health experts of national and international repute have been attending annual RSSDI conference during which discussions and deliberations on preventive and curative aspects of diabetes are being discussed.
 
 
