PANAJI/VASCO: Protests by locals and non-government bodies on Monday, stalled the public hearing of the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) expansion projects at Vasco Residency hall, prompting officials to postpone the hearing. Officials from the   district collector’s office acknowledged that the venue was not suitable for the public hearing.

 Government officials refused to provide an assurance that the public hearings would be held on a Sunday or on Saturday evening, but agreed to hold the public hearing at Tilak Maidan stadium, Vasco at a later date.
 
 The public hearing for the terminal capacity enhancement at berth 5A and 6A by   port was earlier scheduled for February 17, but after citizens objected to the date and venue, the hearing was fixed for March 20 at the Vasco Residency hall. Over 500 people gathered at the hall, including the corridors and passages.
 
 “I have passed the order as I was left with no option but to shift the venue so that every person who is affected by the project can see for themselves what the projects are about. The next date of the public hearing will be fixed in consultation with MPT, the collector’s office and pollution control board,” additional collector   said.
 
 In keeping with norms,   (GSPCB) had called for public hearings for three MPT projectsenhancement of two berths, capital dredging for capesize (the largest dry cargo ships) vessels and redevelopment of berth 8 and 9.
 
 “MPT wants to expand its coal and pet coke handling operations from 8 million tonnes to 18 million tonnes. We cannot accept this when they have failed to live up to the promises made for the last 20 years. Why should Goa and Goan fishermen suffer for the sake of a private player?”   (GRE) joint secretary Olencio Simoes said.
 
 Citizens in the port town have repeatedly objected to the pollution caused by transportation and handling of coal. Along with the expansion of coal handling operations, MPT also wants to expand the port. The hearings for deepening the approach channel and inner basin for capesize vessels, and work on re-development of berths 8, 9, and barge berths at the port, have been rescheduled for March 24 and March 27, respectively.
 
