JAIPUR: Keeping in mind that monsoon has arrived in the city, the district administration has imposed a sort of “ban” on digging of road by different agencies— government and private as well, for preventing accidents.

 Now, district collector   has appointed in-charges for giving permissions for urgent work needing digging of roads. The orders have been issued to prevent accidents due to digging of   during rains. 
 
 It is seen that city roads with potholes turned into death traps. If digging of road is done by government or private agency for work, if should be repaired. In case, dug up roads remain without repair, they pose a threat for major accidents during monsoon. Such roads become inconvenient for pedestrians and also for motorist during monsoon. 
 
 The district administration has appointed additional district magistrate (north), additional magistrate (south) and additional district magistrate (east) for the city and for rural areas, sub divisional magistrates have also been assigned job of giving permission. District administration has also directed the officials to give permission for only those works which are really essential during monsoon. 
 
 In the directions, district collector mentioned that police station of the area will also be informed about the permission given for digging of roads so that it will be ensured that the road has been repaired to prevent any kind of hindrance to movement of vehicles. 
 
 “There are government agencies such as Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department, Jaipur Vidhyut Vitran Nigam, Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) and   which need to dig roads for their works. PHED digs road for lying down or repair water pipelines, JVVNL for electric cables and BSNL lay down underground telecom lines by digging of roads. Now, all these government agencies will have to take permission for digging of roads,” additional district magistrate (South) Hari Singh Meena said.
 
 He said that the orders will remain effective till September 30. 
 
 The district administration has also issued direction to its officials to remain alert during monsoon. It is seen in the past that mishaps happened in the city including collapse of building, low lying areas inundated with water and also other accidents which are risky for life of the people. The district administration has also set up flood control rooms in the city.
 
 
