PATNA:   (PU) is likely to become one of the first universities in the country to launch a student-friendly mobile app and transact all its business online. PU is also going to become completely cashless from the month of June.

 Announcing this at a press conference after a meeting of the university officials and principals of colleges on Monday, VC   said PU was developing a mobile app for meeting all the requirements of students, including procurement of admission forms, payment of various fees, submission of examination forms and knowing the results of examinations. 
 
 The university has already launched a single-window system for admission to all the undergraduate courses in its colleges from the current academic session, he said.
 
 Srivastava said students seeking admission to the three-year degree courses in arts, science and commerce would now on have to apply online on PU’s website (www.patnauniversity.ac.in), indicating the course of their choice and order of preference of their college. 
 
 The students will have to deposit the application fee (price of the form) separately for each college, but they will be required to deposit entrance fee only once for securing admission in one stream in all the colleges. 
 
 PU will hold combined faculty wise entrance test for admission in different colleges and the admission will be made on the basis of candidates’ performance in the test and the preference of the college.
 
 PU’s website will display the details of all the 76 courses running in the university as well as the details of the admission ordinance of each course. Students will have to deposit the requisite fee online using debit card, credit card or through net banking or even through bank challan.
 
 PU’s bank (Allahabad Bank) has developed a software that will ensure that the shares of PU and the respective colleges are deposited simultaneously into their accounts once a a student deposits his/her fees.
 
 Any candidate who does not seek admission through this system will not be registered with the university and will not be allowed to take the university examination, the VC asserted. 
 
 PU dean (students’ welfare)   said a student would not be required to furnish his/her personal information again and again throughout his academic career after furnishing the same at the time of admission. Also, the students will be furnished information about admission, examination, scholarship and other events through the mobile app, she added.
 
 PU registrar G K Palei, examination controller   and deputy registrar N Zaman were also present at the press meet.
 
 
