CUTTACK: A year after 61   within 13 days rocked  , a   (NHRC) representative visited the biggest state-run paediatric hospital on Tuesday to review the measures taken by the government to check rising incidents of   at the institute. 

 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Post Graduate Institute of Paediatrics, popularly known as Sishu Bhawan, had grabbed headlines in August last year in the aftermath of a series of crib deaths. 
 
 The matter had also come to the NHRC's notice. Subsequently, the government had to file an action taken report (ATR) before the commission citing measures taken by it to improve the facilities and services at Sishu Bhawan.
 
 The NHRC representative, Damodar Sarangi, visited the hospital to verify the authenticity of the ATR and measures taken by the government for development of the hospital. 
 
 He moved around the ICU, SNCU and other wards of the hospital and interacted with patients and their attendants to gauge the quality of treatment provided at the hospital. 
 
 Sources said Sarangi thoroughly reviewed the facilities at the hospital and checked documents related to the development activities undertaken by hospital authorities in the aftermath the August 2015 incident. However, Sarangi refused to divulge details of his findings.
 
 "I will submit my report to the NHRC. I cannot share any details with the media," said Sarangi. His visit will continue on Wednesday also . 
 
 After the incident the government had announced a slew of measures to overhaul the functioning at Sishu Bhawan. 
 
 Some of the major announcements were to increase the number of beds in ICU and SNCU and run the diagnostic centre and blood storage unit 24x7. 
 
 But hospital authorities have not complied with any of it. Sources said the beds in ICU of Sishu Bhawan are still limited to 21, while the government had announced to increase it to 36. 
 
 "Increasing the number of beds in the ICU is a necessity, but authorities have turned a blind eye to the issue," alleged a doctor at the hospital 
 
 
