Nagpur: Doubts of people about additional floor space index (FSI) they are entitled to get following the construction of Metro Rail were cleared at a seminar organized by Jyeshtha Nagarik Mandal (JNM) at Abhyankar Smarak Trust, Dhantoli, on Wednesday. The seminar was aimed at informing people about the impact the Metro will have along its route when it comes to FSI.

 Yashwant Khare, secretary of JNM, said, “Many people are not aware of additional FSI, its impact, benefits and demerits. It is one of the most important features of land and with the introduction of Metro Rail, areas along its route will get special benefits and premium. We will guide people on making optimum use of land and related matters.”
 
 Shrikrishna Pathak, president, said, “Additional FSI up to 4 will be provided to areas adjacent to Metro Rail within 500 metres. People should study provisions made by the government on this issue and make full use of benefits. Steps the government has taken on this count are not known to common man which can lead either to their exploitation or depriving them of the benefits they should get. Therefore, people should know changes in land laws made in the wake of Metro Rail and keep themselves updated about the various terms related to additional FSI.”
 
 Shatrughana Warambe, a well-known architect, said, “Premium will be charged at the rate of 0.4 times of the ready reckoner rate. Marginal space will be equal to height of the building divided by 4. If the height is more than 24m, the marginal space will automatically be 9m. Such provisions will make it difficult for people to construct houses which otherwise would be very tiny.”
 
 Warambe said that for a 9m wide road having a building of up to 1,000sqm adjacent to Metro Rail will have an FSI of 2. If the area of the building is between 1,000sqm and 2,000sqm in a 9m wide road, the FSI will be 3. For a 12m wide road having building above 3,000m, FSI of 3.5 will be allowed. A 15m wide road and a building with an area under 4,000sqm will get the FSI of 4.
 
 
