Educational institutions often exploit students and illegally extort money. Students either succumb to such illegal demands or let their career suffer if they choose to fight for their rights against such injustice. Here is a case of a student who fought against the educational institution and succeeded.

 Case Study: Banne Singh Shekhawat of Jhunjhunu had enrolled his daughter in Jhunjhunu Academy. The student passed the Std XII exam in the year 2013. A request was made to the school to issue the transfer   and refund the caution money. Though no dues were outstanding, the school did not refund the caution money, and instead demanded Rs 10,000 for issuance of the transfer certificate. Since Shekhawat refused to succumb to the illegal demand, the school did not issue the transfer certificate, due to which his daughter lost an academic year. Aggrieved, Shekhawat filed a complaint before the district forum against the school. He sought a direction to the school authorities to issue the transfer certificate and also pay Rs 4,50,000 as compensation.
 
 The school contested the complaint. It outrightly denied that Rs 10,000 or any other sum of money was demanded, and went to the extent of saying that no request had ever been made for the transfer certificate.
 
 The forum ordered the school to issue the transfer certificate and character certificate within 15 days, without charging any fee. In case of non compliance of the order within the stipulated period, the school would also be liable to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation.
 
 Shekhawat was unhappy that compensation had not been awarded, and that he would get only a nominal amount of Rs 10,000 in case of further delay. He approached the Rajasthan State Commission which dismissed his appeal. He approached the National Commission by filing a revision petition.
 
 Shekhawat’s argument was that the neither the forum nor the state commission had appreciated that his daughter was compelled to lose an academic year because of the illegal and wrongful act of the school of refusing to issue transfer certificate. He contended that the loss of one academic year required to be suitably compensated.
 
 The National Commission held that there was substance in Shekhawat’s argument. It noted that both the forum as well as the state commission had concluded that there was no justification for the refusal to issued the transfer certificate and character certificate, and the demand for Rs 10,000 was unjustified. The commission observed that a transfer certificate and character certificate are always insisted upon by an institution to which a student seeks admission. The failure to issue the certificate constituted a wrong act, and caused the wastage of an academic year. This would also have an adverse impact on employment and promotion prospects. These factors would have to be taken into consideration while deciding the quantum of compensation.
 
 Accordingly, by its order of April 6, delivered by Justice Ajit Bharihoke for the bench along with Anup Thakur, the National Commission allowed Shekhawat’s revision and directed the school to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation.
 
 Conclusion: The National Commission had earlier observed that justice can be done properly only when the adjudicating authority puts himself in the shoes of the consumer. So the consumer fora members would do well to keep this in mind so that a consumer does not have to go till the National Commission to get adequate compensation.
 
 (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India’s National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His e mail is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)
 
 
