LUCKNOW: Early this week Suresh Kumar Khanna, Uttar Pradesh’s parliamentary affairs minister, reeled off a string of statistics in the assembly on the state’s law and order situation: Between March 15 and May 9, 729 murders, 803 rapes, 799 loots, 2,682 kidnappings and 60 dacoities took place in UP, he said. If those figures seem staggeringly high, it’s with good reason, UP deputy chief minister   told ET: “In the earlier regime, cases were not registered. Our government is registering FIRs (first information reports) for minor crimes, too. Law and order in UP has improved (vis-a-vis the previous government)."
 
  The minister, who also holds the portfolios of secondary and  ,  ,   and IT department, added: “When we came to power, we gave an order that all incidents of crime must be registered – even minor ones. Expectedly, the numbers have risen – and we are aware that the opposition is highlighting this.”
  
  Samajwadi Party member Shailendra Yadav Lalai had sought crime data from the government early this week. Khanna told the assembly that action had been taken in 67.16% of murder cases, 71.12% cases of rape and 52.23% of kidnapping.
  
  He also pointed out that 67.05% cases of dacoity and 81.88% loot cases had been dealt with. Sharma claimed that chief minister Adityanth is personally involved in improving law and order on a daily basis.
  
  “Every day the chief minister is doing a sameeksha (review); new orders are being given based on inputs received. There is zero tolerance towards crime. The coming days will show the result of these efforts. UP will emerge as a state with the lowest crime rate.”
  
  Leader of the Opposition   — who walked out of the UP assembly midway on Thursday along with members of SP, BSP and Congress — is skeptical. “He (the CM) blamed the Opposition for all the crime and corruption in the state,” Choudhary told ET right after the walkout. “Law and order is worse; there has been an increase of 30-35% in the crime rate under Yogi.”
  
  On the spate of reports of crimes against minorities, Sharma countered that they are more secure now. “We aim to bring all the people of the state into the mainstream and improve the state’s condition. At the same time, we do not believe in appeasement.” 
