Actress  , who is currently celebrating her recent win at the People's Choice Awards, talked about the Indian culture and its special connection to dance and music during her appearance on " !". 

 The 34-year-old star said the reason Indian movies have so much of dancing and singing is because "we need an excuse to dance".
 
 "If you ever go to an Indian family, their wedding or any occasion, it will always be a dance party. We need an excuse to dance. This is different kind of dancing, there's like craziness and drums and music. And I think, culturally that is reflected in the movies," Priyanka said. 
 
 Though, the actress has been here for over a year since the second season of her popular American TV series "Quantico" was started, she said she would still call Mumbai, her home. 
 
 "I enjoy shooting in New York as it is really close from my home. There is just a 14 hours flight. It is a beautiful city and so picturesque. I work here, but I would like to say that I live in Mumbai." 
 
 
 
 When asked about how things work in  , the star said, "They do have union rules but it's really actor-driven, and I am a workaholic... Everybody works like that. They (the production houses) follow my lead, it's awesome. It's great." 
 
 Recently, Priyanka had a concussion on the set of "Quantico". She was given a day off after she fell and hit her head on the road while shooting. 
 
 Talking about her injury that ended up making headlines everywhere, she said, "I took one day off work, Friday. It was something so silly! I have done so many stunts before in my life, it was just a rainy day, we were running against time and we had to finish our day." 
 
 To which Kimmel said, "Was this a real doctor or a TV doctor? Is this like Grey's Anatomy? 
 
 "In my head I was a part of Grey's Anatomy. Because I landed there and people took me in this wheel chair and I was seeing lights because I had to lie down and I was feeling like it was really Grey's Anatomy," Priyanka quipped.
 
 
 
  
  
 
