THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the state government planning to make   mandatory in apartment complexes, confusion prevails in the state over a notification issued by ministry of environment and forests on   in  .

 The Union government issued the notification in December, 2016, to ensure ease of doing responsible business and for streamlining the various permissions needed by realtors. As per the amendment introduced in environment impact assessment notification, 2006, separate rules have been put in place for buildings of 5,000-20,000 sq metre and those above 20,000 sq metres.For buildings in the category (5,00020,000 sq.m), the project proponent has to submit a self-declaration form to comply with environmental conditions and certification by qualified building environment auditor besides application for building permit to the local author ity. After completion of the project, the proponent shall update a form online based on audit done by a qualified building environment auditor and shall furnish the re vised compliance undertaking to . the local authority .For buildings above 20,000 sq m, the project proponent has to apply online for environmental appraisal.
 
 The environment cell constituted by local authority shall process the application, appraise the project and stipulate the environmental norms to be integrated in the build ing permit. After completion of construction, the project proponent should submit compliance reports from qualified building environment auditors every five years to the environment cell. The report will have special focus on aspects like water use, waste water generated, treated and reused on the site.
 
 It further says that no consent to establish and operate shall be required from PCB for residential buildings upto 1,50,000 sq metres.The state government occupied with drafting separate building rules for panchayats, municipalities and corporations is yet to act on this amendment giving rise to wide misinterpretations of the notification.
 
 “If environmental norms are the priority of the government, it should have studied the amendment and submitted recommendations or objections when it was published. However, the government did nothing and now the amendment is being interpreted independently ,'' said an official with the town planning department.
 
