BHUBANESWAR/KENDRAPADA: In a major setback to BJD, a no-confidence motion moved by the party against   chairperson Sabita Rout was rejected on Saturday as all 26 councillors of the civic body in   abstained from voting. 

 The BJD councillors had moved the no-trust motion on January 2 after Rout was suspended for indulging in anti-party activities on December 28. 
 
 "All 26 councillors, including 16 from BJD, did not turn up for the trust vote. A two-third majority of the 26-member civic body was required for voting as per the guidelines. As no councillor turned up to vote on Saturday, the no-confidence motion was rejected," said  , the additional district magistrate of Kalinganagar.
 
 Quizzed about councillors abstaining from voting, the municipality's vice chairperson Subash Bal said the party did not issue any whip asking its councillors to be present on voting day. "After moving the no-confidence motion against Rout, we had urged the party president and local MLA to issue a whip to councillors. Since there was no whip, some of the councillors from the BJD camp may have compromised and abstained from voting," Bal said.
 
 Notably, this is the second time that the chairperson faced a no-confidence motion. A similar motion was moved against her by   and an independent councillor. Some BJD councillors, who were not happy with Rout, had also supported the move. Rout had managed to save her seat then following the intervention of party president  . Voting for the trust vote could not be taken up as none of its 16 BJD councillors appeared for the vote after the party issued a whip asking them to abstain from voting.
 
 According to local reports, the BJD president had suspended her recently after several ruling councillors expressed their displeasure over her leadership. "She has failed to take all councillors with her. Development activities could not be taken up as she does not listen to anyone," said a councillor, adding they are exploring legal options to move another no-confidence motion after one month.
 
 While Rout could not be reached for her comment, party spokesperson Surya Narayan Patro said rejection of the no-confidence motion would have no impact on the party's future prospects. Local MLA Akash Dasnayak too did not respond to repeated calls. 
 
