After starring in movies like 'Pink' and ' ', working on ' ' was nothing less than a picnic for  . Pink won the National Film Award for Best Film on Social Issues, and 'Naam Shabana' had Taapsee playing an Indian spy. Taapsee says, that after doing two intense films, it was important for her to take a break.

  
  
 
 She says, "I have no qualms in admitting that the reason I chose a film like '  2' was to avoid being typecast. I thought, before people typecast me, saying, 'Oh, she can only do hard-hitting, intense roles' and put me in the category of offbeat actresses, I should shock and surprise them. I hate being called an offbeat actress and I don't consider myself one as my films have been a huge commercial success. 'Judwaa 2' is an attempt to surprise the audience and surprises have always worked in my favour. In 'Baby', people loved my 10-minute role which was a surprise to many; in Pink, when people thought that apart from Mr Bachchan nobody else would get the limelight, I did make a mark, and so was the case with 'Naam Shabana'. After all these films, when people might have thought that this is working for her and she might continue doing these kind of films, here I am, playing a typical Bollywood heroine because I know that I can carry that off as well."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 The actress says that working on 'Judwaa 2' has been special for her as that has been one of her favourite films since childhood. She says that she must have been nine when she would have watched the film, and since then, she’s remembered dialogues, scenes and lyrics from the movie. "My memories of Judwaa are so strong that I remember the lyrics better than Varun Dhawan. When I shot for 'Chashme Baddoor' with David (Dhawan) sir in Mauritius, on the last day of the shoot, I forced David sir to shoot 'Oonchi Hai Building' with me as a promotional video, without having any idea that four years later, I would get to do this film," she says.
 
 
  
  Taapsee Pannu (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 Though the sequel might have retained the original title and some of the songs from the franchise, the actress says that there's a lot of difference in the character sketches and comedy, keeping in mind the changed taste of the audience. "It's been 20 years since 'Judwaa' was made and a lot has changed in our industry since then, we don't laugh on the same jokes anymore, situations aren't same, character sketches are different. Even though I am playing a character which was played by Rambha in the original film, I am nothing like her because that kind of a girl doesn't exist in today's time. I am playing someone who is a go-getter when it comes to her relationships. Today, the audience is very clear about what they want from a film, you just can't give them kuch bhi in terms of content."
 
  
 After the release of her last two films, Taapsee was in the news for her women empowerment initiatives and among those was promoting self-defence training among female students of her school, Mata Jai Kaur Public School, in Delhi. The actress says that she has continued with her efforts since then and has also shot for a short film where she plays a self-defence instructor and plans to screen that film at as many places as possible. "It was very nice of my principal and chairperson to give me an opportunity to visit my school and talk to students about the importance of self-defence training for girls. They told me recently that after that trial class, enrolment suddenly increased, people did take it seriously and it is not a guest class anymore. Self-defence classes are conducted regularly there, that gave me a real sense of success. I will keep doing small things like this in my capacity, there is a short film I have done recently, where I play a self-defence instructor and when it comes out, I will take it to a lot of places," she says, adding that an important part of women empowerment is also letting women decide what they want to do or wear. Taapsee was recently targeted by trolls on social media for posting her pictures in a bikini. "I have the power to decide what I want to wear and what not and that is also a part of women empowerment. All celebs would agree that whatever we tweet, be it for clothes or for any statement we make, we do attract hate statements, some become viral, some don't. When I posed that photo, in my subconscious mind I was prepared for that kind of response. Usually, I don't react to such comments as that’s the best way of dealing with such people. They do this to get attention and I don’t want to give them that," she concludes.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
