For Puneites, the Camp area is like a melting pot of different cultures. Be it any festival, one can see people celebrating everything in the area; the upcoming   and Durga Puja are no exceptions.

  What is more interesting about the celebration here is the fact that a group from Camp is all set to ring in the festivities together, irrespective of their religion or caste. For the members of the  , festivals are meant to be celebrated together and they are making sure to follow this mantra.
 
  “Although the group consists of men as well as women, the Navratri celebrations are organised only by women. Goddess Durga signifies the power of women. There are women from all regions, religions, castes and creed who work together to organise and celebrate the festival,” informs Priyanka Bhandar, who headed the festivities last year.
  
  She further says that for them, this unity comes naturally as they live in an area that signifies a mix of cultures. “Our camaraderie is not limited to festivals, but is a part of our day to day life too,” adds Bhandar.
 
  The mandal celebrates the festival in ways significant to different communities. Whether it is Marathi bhondla, Gujarati dandiya or indulging in Bengali cuisine, their idea is to experience various cultures. “Last year, we had a workshop where one of our members from   taught us how to prepare Bengali sweets,” informs Bhandar.
 
  Adding to this, Padma Sana, who hails from Bengal, states that she was glad to share the cuisine on everyone’s plate. “It was a really great feeling that people from various communities came together to celebrate. Bengali sweets are really special and I was happy to prepare coconut laddoos with khejur gur (date palm jaggery) with them. Everyone really appreciated it,” she said.
  
  Asifa Sheikh, yet another member of the organising committee, says that it is not just fun for them but the kids as well. “There are various activities for kids, along with cultural programmes. Besides, it is also a learning experience for them about how festivals are celebrated in various parts of the country,” she says.
 
  “Basically, it is like one big family celebrating all the festivals together. Whether it is playing dandiya or attending the midnight mass during Christmas, all our members do it together,” says  , a member.
 
  It is because of this that the mandal is abuzz with activities throughout the year. “During Christmas, we have Santa Claus distributing sweets to the children. During Diwali, women visit orphanages and bathe children there with ‘ubtan’ (a scrubbing powder typically used during Diwali) and during Eid, some of our members host a grand feast for us all,” informs  , one of the trustees of the mandal.
  - Mayuri Phadnis
