NEW DELHI: While a new parking policy for the city is in the works, the existing facilities remain unused. Multilevel   at   and Kalkaji, for example, were completed last year, but are yet to be made operational.

 The sheer apathy of civic bodies has meant that plans to decongest these two heavily populated areas have gone wasted. When this correspondent visited New Friends Colony, he found credence in their claim that the basement of the parking facility was flooded almost every time it rained.
 
 BM Bakshi, president of NFC RWA, told TOI: “The (multilevel parking) project was initiated in 2010, but was completed only last year. We hoped that the facility would help decongest the area, but it’s yet to be opened.” Bakshi added that while the south corporation had not made the facility operational, people were already using its first floor to park their vehicles for free.
 
 “The parking lot was inaugurated by the then councillor last year. However, two days later, the corporation locked it. No one monitors what happens here and, so, it’s a major security concern,” said Bakshi. A parking attendant pleaded helplessness in dealing with people who, he claimed, often misbehaved when asked not to park their vehicles there. Had everything gone according to plan, the Rs 35-crore project would have accommodated over 500 cars. 
 
 The tale at Kalkaji E Block is not much different with residents complaining of illegal surface parking causing huge jams. The reason: the much-touted multilevel parking facility remains locked. This one, too, was completed last year, but again remains under lock and key. Peak hours witness regular traffic snarls.
 
 According to an assessment by the Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi requires an area equal to 420 football fields to meet the parking requirement every year, as about 2 lakh new cars are added annually.
 
 South corporation commissioner Puneet Goel said both parking lots were outsourced to DIMTS and would soon be made operational.
 
 “Two floors of the New Friends Colony parking lot are ready. The Kalkaji multilevel facility is completed. Both of them have been handed over to DIMTS for management and will be made operational soon. The delay is because DIMTS is yet to appoint staff to manage them,” said Goel.
 
 
