NEW DELHI:  , McDonald’s India’s estranged joint venture partner in north and east India, said his first task after being reinstated as managing director is to reopen 43 restaurants recently shut in Delhi and sort out issues plaguing all 168 outlets in the region.

 “I have a few options on how to go about reopening them which I can't disclose now,” Bakshi said. “We will discuss it in the board meeting which will be convened soon,” he told ET a day after National Company Law Tribunal ( ) reinstated him as managing director of Connaught Plaza Restaurants Pvt Ltd (CPRL), his equal joint venture with the US burger and fries chain.
 
 Bakshi has been fighting a   battle with his American partner of 22 years since August 2013 when McDonald’s announced that his term had ended and alleged financial irregularities. Soon after, Bakshi moved Company Law Board (CLB) against the move, and McDonald’s moved the London Court of International Arbitration in response.
 
 On Thursday, NCLT principal bench reinstated Bakshi, terming his ouster “illegal, unlawful, unjust and malicious.” “We respect the decision of the NCLT,” McDonald’s India spokesperson Barry Sum said. “We are examining the judgment and exploring our legal options,” he said in an email revert to ET.
 
 Bakshi’s re-election as managing director at CPRL will be subject to the company board meeting under the supervision of NCLT-appointed administrator, former Supreme Court judge G S Singhvi.
 
 Singhvi, tasked to help “break the impasse,” will have equal voting power as any other board member. The existing board is represented by two members from McDonald’s — Bakshi and his wife.
 
 The NCLT order also said McDonald’s Corporation should not “interfere with smooth functioning” of CPRL and its McDonald’s outlets.
 
 Bakshi told ET he was “always willing to smoke the peace pipe. I am telling   let bygones be bygones.” Asked if he has the financial muscle to run the company without help of its JV partner, Bakshi said he has been operating it on his own prior to 2013 when differences between the two cropped up.
 
 He said Connaught Plaza should be valued at a fair market price, hinting at the valuation of   that owns and runs McDonald’s restaurants in West and South with Mumbai-based businessman Amit Jatia as development licensee. Westlife Development's market cap as of Friday was Rs 3,527 crore.
 
 Jaspal Sabharwal, a veteran private equity professional, said the NCLT order “is an opportunity for both sides to reset their working relationship”.
 
 “McDonald’s can always find a reason to terminate the franchise agreement, but do you really want to be on a trajectory you can’t turn back from?” said Sabharwal who set up   in India and is now cofounder of TagTaste, an aggregator of restaurants and allied services.
 
 “McDonald’s has allowed this crisis to linger on for more than three years. It needs a senior person from its HQ to lead the discussions. These things cannot solely be resolved by legal intervention,” he said.
 
 McDonald’s and Bakshi are also in litigation in the London Court of International Arbitration, which the burger and fries chain had approached in October 2013.
 
