Not everyone gets to visit   as a guest often, but   has visited the Durbar Hall in the past and returned to it this week for the fifth time, to receive the  . The singer received the award on Thursday and says that "nothing could be compared to the feeling of receiving this." He continues, "Since I am an ambassador for the Swachh Bharat campaign, I have been invited here twice earlier for dinner. But this time was special. Jab president of India award dene waale ho aur saamne baithe ho prime minister aur home minister, toh woh honour hi alag hai. You feel a hero for the day. This honour is the result of years of hard work. Ek din woh tha jab door se dekhte thay yeh hai Rashtrapati Bhavan, aaj yahan par pahuch kar award lena ek bahut bada samman hai. Dilli ne humko bahut sikhaya hai, I left my home and started staying alone in 2004, josh me chhod diya tha ghar par baad mein bahut mushkil aayi. That was the time when people told me that remix aur lewd lyrics hi bikta hain, but I decided to stay true to my music and my belief, and this award is the result of that."

 
  
  
 
 
  The singer says that it wasn't just the award he was excited about, meeting with Prime Minister   and "having just two words" with the president of India was the big reward. "Jab President award de rahein thay, toh woh muskura nahi rahe thay. Humne halka sa bola, 'dada smile karo na', toh thoda smile kiye aur bole 'congratulations.' After the award ceremony, there was a group photo with the president, prime minister and home minister. Ek badi pyaari si ladki aayi aur poochhi, 'Hum ek photo le lein?' She then whispered in my ears that she was the granddaughter of the president. Humne kaha inke saath to sabse pehle photo lo. At the time of refreshments, the prime minister came and met everyone with folded hands. After meeting the guests once, he returned again to meet more and even I was in the queue. He patted my back and said, 'Khush raho, keep it up!' That was the big moment," says Kher.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Kher adds that this is the first time when "we have a minister who gives a lot of honour and respect to artistes, music and culture." He says, “Isse pehle artistes ko manoranjan ke liye bulaya jata tha, Science aur Economics pe dhyaan zyada dete thay is samman ke liye. Pehli baar koi jaaga hua prime minister aaya hai. Bahut log sochte hain hum BJP hain. Nahi bhaiya, achchi baat ki tareef karna BJP hona nahi hota, ek koi galat kaam kariye, bahut badh-chadhkar bolenge hum. I feel this is the best time for art and culture in our country."
 
 
 
 
