BHUBANESWAR: CBI on Monday claimed to have come across vital clues against arrested TMC parliamentarian   in connection with   and suspected his mediation behind diversion of crores of rupees from the firm to foreign countries.

 In a bid to elicit more information and substantiate the points that emerged during six-day interrogation, which ended on Monday, the court of special CJM (CBI) here allowed the probe agency to interrogate Bandyopadhyay for four more days in its custody. CBI had prayed for extension of the remand period to eight days. 
 
 “We found vital leads from Bandyopadhyay during the six-day custodial interrogation. We strongly suspect his involvement in international money laundering. In a case, we found he mediated in diverting over Rs 70 lakh from Rose Valley to a reputed private school in Kolkata. We also have information that public deposits were laundered to foreign countries through his political patronage,” a CBI officer told TOI.
 
 CBI counsel Kali Charan Mishra appealed to the court to dismiss Bandyopadhyay’s bail application, which is still pending for hearing in the court. “If the accused is given bail, he being an influential politician will terrorise witnesses and tamper with evidences,” Mishra told the court. Mishra also produced in court a 2011 order passed by the SEBI against Rose Valley. “Ignoring the SEBI order, the MP promoted the illegal business,” he argued in the court. 
 
 Defence counsel Sourya Sundar Das earlier vehemently opposed the CBI’s plea for extension of Bandyopadhyay’s police remand and prayed for his bail. While arguing for over 2 hours, Das said the charges under section of 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and sections 3, 5, 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 clamped against his client are not backed by evidence. “My client has been falsely implicated in the case. During argument, we emphasized on the legal aspects of the sections and drew the attention of the court about unavailability of any evidence against my client under those charges,” Das said. “My client is not opposing the demonetisation scheme. My client was dragged into the controversy as he opposed the way the Centre wanted to implement demonetisation,” Das told the court. 
 
 Bandypadhyay told media outside the court that there is a conspiracy to prevent him from attending important meetings, including the forthcoming budget session in the Parliament. Bandyopadhyay’s wife Nayna, a TMC MLA, who sat beside him during the courtroom arguments, told outside the court that her husband is now in “Narendra Modi custody.” “CBI is dancing to the tunes of Modi,” she said.
 
