MADURAI:Two hundred people were affected by dengue in Madurai since January this year and successfully treated, said district collector K Veera Raghava Rao while flagging of the rally on   here on Friday.

 The collector said that all steps were being taken to prevent the spread of the disease in Madurai and that the corporation and the district public health department were working round the clock to ensure that all preventive measures were in place. 
 
 The chief minister had ordered to spread awareness on prevention on dengue and was being done with the help of students in the district.   Commissioner Aneesh Sekhar also participated in the event.
 
 The collector said that there were many reasons for the spread of the disease while the main cause was stagnant rainwater or fresh water in which the mosquitoes breed. 
 
 Apart from preventive measures, sidda medication ‘Nilavembukudineer’, which was found to be effective in the treatment of dengue, has been stocked and supplied through primary health centres and hospitals, the collector said.
 
 Over 400 students participated in the rally which began at the Periyar bus stand and went through West Veli street,   street and culminated at the Sethupathi Higher Secondary school. Participants carried placards and sign boards with the dos and don’ts to avoid dengue this season.
 
 The corporation has deployed 525 workers to carry out preventive measures. Corporation assistant health officer K Parthiban said that the workers were visiting construction and abandoned sites to check if there are mosquito breeding spots and were being fined accordingly. “The fine would be heavy if they continue to violate the rules and store water without proper maintenance,” he said.
 
 There are four teams with 25 members each who are tasked with dengue prevention drive in the four zones of the Madurai Corporation. 
 
 Mass cleaning was being done in vacant plots and clear them of anything which would promote mosquito breeding.
 
  “The cooperation of the people is a must to prevent the spread of the disease while people with any type of fever that lasts for more than two days should seek medical attention from a doctor and over-the-counter drugs should be avoided,” he added.
 
