NAGPUR: The total number of   virus-infected cases in the city has gone up to 16 with two more patients testing positive for swine flu.

 The two patients were getting treatment at Suretech Hospital, Dhantoli. Dr Nirmal Jaiswal from the hospital said, “The two patients came with excessive cough and high fever. They were at the hospital for four days and were discharged on Sunday.”
 
 Dr Jaiswal said, “We are reporting patients with similar symptoms. They usually come with cough which is not responding to antibiotics given by their family physicians. There is always a huge chance that such symptoms relate with H1N1 positive virus.”
 
 According to the   (NMC) health department records, three more cases were detected recently. Out of three, one is a couple residing at Mhalgi Nagar, south Nagpur. Both were discharged from Sure Tech Hospital on Friday. The other patient, who was being treated at Trinity Hospital, also hails from south Nagpur. With this, three out of five cases detected recently are from south Nagpur, said the records. 
 
 On March 15, TOI had reported about a 46-year-old woman from the city succumbed to swine flu at a private hospital. Two other patients, a 60-year-old man from Swaraj Nagar (west Nagpur) and a 41-year-old man from Aashirwad Nagar (south Nagpur) were found positive.
 
 One of the officers from health department said, “The two patients, who were getting treatment at Wockhardt Hospital and Trinity Hospital, have been discharged from the respective hospitals.”
 
 Meanwhile, the health department is preparing to control the deadly virus before it spread. The officer from the health department said, “On all the positive cases from the city, we conduct a survey to find out the reason behind the virus entering the city. We also keep a good stock of Tamiflu tablets. Eventually, we distribute the tablets at locality and workplace of the positive patient to control the virus. It is like a preventive measure we take.”
 
 He further said, “We have already performed the process at the three localities of the initial three positive cases. We will be performing the same process around the new two cases as well.” 
 
