Kolkata: The   station site is likely to be handed over to Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the executing agency of East-West Metro, on Tuesday evening. The process of cordoning off the site for the construction of the station will start on Wednesday.

 “There were a few technical differences between us and the state government. But we have ironed out those differences and agreed on a design. There are no hitches any more. Now it is only a matter of time before the site is formally handed over,” said KMRC spokesperson A K Nandy.
 
 Till the formal handing over of the site, minibuses will be allowed to use the terminus on the east side of Lal Dighi (Tank Square). After the site is cordoned off, no minibus will be allowed to park in and around Mahakaran (Writers’ Buildings). Instead, they will arrive, pick up passengers and disperse. 
 
 Additionally, tram services along as many as 16 routes will be suspended for the next three years. KMRC will compensate CTC against the revenue losses.
 
 Apart from the minibus stand, the cordoned-off area will not affect the movement of traffic on the road. The north-south corridor beside the minibus stand will be intact. Because of the Archaeological Survey of India’s clause, KMRC needed to push the overground structures beyond 100m of the nat-ionally protected monument, the Currency Building.
 
 So far, the construction of the underground Metro tunnel has not affected any building. KMRCL, however, is ready to bear the expenditure to repair any damage caused to the old structures. 
 
 The Esplanade and Mahakaran stations will have two entrances and two exits. The construction of Esplanade station — planned as the interchange between the North-South, East-West and Joka BBD Bag lines — has already begun. Such an interchange of three Metro lines is extremely rare in India. The surface bus and tram stations will also be redesigned to turn the station into a major transport hub. 
 
 The estimated time for the stations to be completed is around three years, said a source. 
 
 
