Kolkata: The   of an   tower (ATC) and a technical block, that was designed for the Kolkata   by a French architecture firm a decade ago, is finally set to begin after monsoon with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) issuing the work order to Rama Construction Pvt Ltd.

 Controllers — who have been calling for a modern and spacious workplace — are, however, far from enthused as their hopes of an iconic, cloud-kisser have been dashed. Instead, a stunted tower, half the size they had yearned for, has been approved at a cost of Rs 458 crore. While the construction will be completed in three years, the tower will be functional by mid-2021.
 
 The tower and technical block had been designed alongside the integrated terminal by international architect firm Aeroport de Paris SA in 2007-08. Initially, the construction of both projects were scheduled in succession, first the terminal and then the tower. But the latter was held up for four years as AAI debated the design and height. Initially proposed at 86m, controllers had lobbied for a 112m structure that would be AAI’s showpiece. But the approved tower is 57.9m, way shorter than the ATC towers at Delhi (102m) and Mumbai (83.8m).
 
 The controllers’ guild in Kolkata had argued that a tall tower was necessary to sight planes parked along the international wing of the terminal. But AAI headquarters shot down the proposal, citing technical issues including obstruction of radar coverage. “At a time when modern technology like high density camera has made remote towers possible, the height of a tower is not critical,” reasoned regional executive director (east) AN Sharma.
 
 In the intervening years, vital navigational aids and surveillance technologies such as radars, Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast, VHF and terminals were upgraded at the four-decade-old air traffic services complex as Kolkata ATC systems were automated. However, space remains at a premium. That constraint will end once the new L-shaped technical block is ready as it will be over three times the size of the current facility where area controllers will be located. The challenge will be the deep pile foundation required to ensure the tower’s stability on marshy soil. While soil testing at the site has been done, the design will be finalised after a test pile is carried out.
 
 The location of the proposed tower and technical block is opposite gate number four near the old ceremonial lounge to the northwest of the old international terminal.
 
 
