SRINAGAR: Setting the stage for rollout of goods and services tax ( ) from July, the Centre and states on Thursday decided on rates for specific products which may lead to lower prices for a majority of products of mass consumption.

 The idea is to ensure that the impact of GST is not inflationary. Rates on 1,211 items were finalised by the   with 81% facing a levy of up to 18%. “There is no increase (in burden) on any commodity.
 
 On many commodities, there is a reduction in tax rates and tax-on-tax will also go away, lowering the burden,” finance minister   said. “One criterion in mind is that the overall impact should not be inflationary... We are banking on GST checking evasion and buoyancy in collection,” Jaitley said. The GST council decided to lower tax incidence on items such as sugar, tea, coffee and mithai as well as consumer durables but opted to retain the burden on cars.
 
 In addition, bikes with engine capacity of over 350cc, which are seen as luxury goods, will see a new cess of 3%. Foodgrains have been exempted from GST, which will lower the burden on consumers since they currently face various levies that add up to around 5%.
 
 Revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia said automobiles will attract 28% GST, with luxury vehicles facing an additional cess of 15%. Similarly, small petrol cars will face 1% cess, while diesel-powered small cars will attract 3% cess.
 
 In certain cases, such as hair oil, soaps and toothpaste, tax incidence has been reduced from around 28% to 18%. For coal, the reduction will be from 11.69% to 5%, helping lower the cost of power.
 
 Similarly, the burden on those buying refrigerators or washing machines will come down from around 31-32% to 28%, officers said. Instant tea and coffee are expected to be in a separate bracket although tea and coffee will be in the 5% slab.
 
 “Items that are part of the consumer price index will see ahuge reduction,” Adhia said. With detailed rates due to be released, businesses will now sit down and calculate product-wise impact and also plan for the rollout. Auto companies said the incidence will largely remain the same even after GST is rolled out.
 
 
 
 
 There were, however, concerns over items in the 28% slab. “Consumer products like soaps, toothpaste and hair oil under 18% is good news and should see price drop for consumers. Similarly, several food items such as edible oil, tea, coffee sugar etc have been kept at 5%, with exemption for milk and foodgrains, which would also bring cheer to industry. The only concern is that 19% items (over 200) would be kept under 28%, which was initially meant for only few commodities such as luxury cars, aerated beverages etc,” said Pratik Jain, partner at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 
 There are certain issues which are expected to be thrashed out on Friday, when the   is also expected to finalise the rates for services.
 
 The council will decide on the levy for gold, biscuits, packaged and branded cereals, footwear, bidis and textiles.
 
 Jaitley said the GST council had approved seven sets of rules, excluding those related to transition and returns, along with the forms. “It was quite surprising that the decisions were taken so quickly,” Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said.
 
 The tax reform will subsume central and state levies such as excise duty, additional duties of customs, service tax, value added tax, central sales tax, entry tax, octroi and luxury tax and is expected to clean up the messy indirect tax structure.
 
