MUMBAI / PUNE: The state board’s   lists “ugliness and handicap” as reasons why parents have to shell out higher dowry to get their daughters married.

 On Thursday, social media was abuzz with such controversial excerpts of the textbook, first printed in 2013 and used by thousands of students who opt to study sociology at junior college across the state every year. It was prepared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.
 
 “We will withdraw the objectionable part and also issue a notice to the textbook officials concerned,” education minister Vinod Tawde told TOI.
 
 Anonymous complaints appeared regarding the text in Chapter 3, ‘Major social problems in India’, which discusses dowry, problems of working women and domestic violence, among others. 
 
 Talking about dowry, it lists religion, the caste system, social prestige and the compensation principle. It mentions financial negotiations conducted during a son’s marriage to fund a daughter’s wedding and a bride’s family turning into “criminals” to arrange for dowry as some of the “consequences”.
 
 Teachers said while the issues discussed in the book might be the grim reality, it should have used a more academic language. “These issues are real. We cannot deny them but when I first read the text, I was offended. It could have been handled far more delicately. When we read it out in class, it is very awkward if a student with disabilities is present. Besides, teenagers are extremely self-conscious about their image and such content could hurt their confidence,” said a south Mumbai college teacher.
 
 While educationists have expressed their reservations over the content, one of the six authors of the textbook whom TOI contacted said the excerpts are being seen in isolation. “The textbook has to be read carefully. We have said that these (ugliness and handicap) are some of the reasons why dowry exists. We have also included an advisory on how girls should and can refuse to marry a groom whose family demands dowry,” said the author.
 
 Madhuri Pai, programme head of the NGO Pratham, said, “‘Ugly’ and ‘handicapped’ could easily have been replaced with perceived physical attributes. I prefer disabled to handicapped. Sociology is a science and writers must choose their words carefully. While writing for an impressionable age group, one has to be extremely cautious.”
 
 Similarly, sociologist and professor Nandini Sardesai said the textbook has been written from a chauvinistic point of view. “Students should just be told that dowry is a social evil and it must be eradicated no matter what. Steps must be taken to rectify this because it sends out wrong signals to students.”
 
 Though he agreed that dowry was “market-related” and that marriage had also become a “market”, senior sociologist Vidyut Bhagwat said, “Mentioning ‘ugly’ and ‘handicapped’ to describe girls is in itself a very wicked and crooked way of looking at things. Why didn’t the writer instead write about the anti-dowry Act and past movements that led to stopping the practice of dowry? I feel the book should be banned. A criminal offence should be registered against the people behind the book.”
 
 However, Maharashtra right to education (RTE) forum convenor Hemangi Joshi said, “Sociologists go far beyond sympathy and analyze the perceptions, biases and social systems responsible for situations. Sociology is not a subject of citizenship building but it helps equip students critically analyze social situations and issues.”
 
 Education minister Vinod Tawde has already spoken to Gangadhar Mhamane, chairperson of the board. “The content in the syllabus is old; the textbook has been around for three years. Politics and school syllabus should not be mixed. This issue is related to school syllabus and there is an academic board that decides what goes into textbooks. I think the academic board has tried to reflect the social reality in this chapter. However, we will review it and send suggestions to the board and study their suggestions too,” said Tawde. Mhamane remained unavailable for comment.
 
 (Inputs by Allwin Dsouza)
 
 
