THANE: The newly-elected mayor,  , has decided to streamline operations of the   meetings during her tenure. She has instructed all senior   to remain present for all monthly meetings.

 Ahead of the first general body meeting of the new board, which is likely to be held on March 20, the mayor has sent out letters to all heads of departments to ensure that they or their representatives are present for all the meetings henceforth. Shinde said that the absence of officials, especially during important discussions, in the previous board led to disruptions of several meets and delayed decision making, in addition to wastage of taxpayers’ money. 
 
 Holding a meeting involves spending the money of the taxpayer for various jobs, including printing and despatching of agendas to all corporators, food, electricity and even bhatta for attending the meets. The previous board recorded an expenditure of Rs 45 lakh collectively for arranging such meetings, several of which were disrupted or adjourned due to various reasons—including absence of civic officials. 
 
 A few meetings, including the discussion on Kalwa CSM hospital in 2015, water issues and town planning issues, were delayed as officials from the respective departments were found missing from the House as they were ‘busy’ with some official work.
 
 The mayor said that officials often claimed to have last minute appointments or meetings. But attending general body meetings is also important as several decisions related to the city and its residents are taken up here and bypassing them will no be advisable. 
 
 ‘‘Several meetings have been disrupted or adjourned in the past due to absence of civic officials. I have sent letters to the department heads asking them to ensure their presence during the monthly meets. I will check if the letter has made any any impact on the officials and will also check if there is any provision to take any action against those who are absent often,’’ said Shinde.
 
 The mayor is expecting good attendance from corporators also. ‘‘I am in talks with senior party leaders to ensure that their corporators remain present for the meetings also,’’ said Shinde.
 
 Several meetings have been disrupted or adjourned in the past due to absence of civic officials. I have sent letters to the department heads asking them to ensure their presence during the monthly meets. I will check if the letter has made any any impact on the officials and will also check if there is any provision to take any action against those who are absent often
 
 
