CHENNAI: Just a week ahead of this year’s postgraduate medical admissions, scheduled to begin on April 4, the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the   government to explain whether all unaided   and deemed universities offering   medical courses were surrendering 50% of their seats as mandated by the Supreme Court.

 Justice N Kirubakaran, passing orders on a writ petition of a PG medical-aspirant, also directed to specify the number of seats surrendered, specialty wise, since the year 2000. 
 
 Raising a set of court queries, the judge said the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000 mandated sharing of PG seats in medical colleges on a 50:50 basis between the managements and the government. 
 
 Pointing out that the provision had not been struck down, he asked: “Therefore, all non-governmental institutions should have shared 50% of the PG medical seats with their respective state governments, especially in Tamil Nadu. So, it has to be explained as to whether the government of Tamil Nadu had got 50% of PG medical seats from unaided institutions from the year 2000 onwards.”
 
 He also sought to know the total number of seats available in PG courses in each medical college in Tamil Nadu, including minority institutions and deemed universities each year, right from the year 2000. 
 
 He asked whether the Medical Council of India ( ) is supervising the seat-sharing between the non-governmental medical institutions and their respective state governments. He also wanted to know if the processes is followed scrupulously every year since 2000.
 
 “If the seat-sharing has not been done by the non-governmental medical institutions concerned, what action has been taken against them,” he asked, adding, “If no action has been taken, why no action has been taken against the errant non-governmental medical institutions?”
 
 The judge then asked the state and the central governments, along with the MCI, to file their counter affidavits.
 
 Pointing out that the PG medical admission is scheduled to start on April 4, he asked the stakeholders under notice to submit their counter affidavits by April 3. 
 
 “As regards the admission process, it is made clear that the state government is at liberty to proceed with the matter as per law,” Justice Kirubakaran clarified.
 
