LUCKNOW: Localities of Lucknow (north) are pockets of infectious diseases. After delimitation, voters thought they would be saved from the perils of fever and diarrhoea outbreaks in slum-turned-unorganised hamlets in the vicinity once planned colonies like   and   came up.

 But neither public representatives nor authoities have been able to recognise a possible source of infection--the city's biggest scrap colony that has come up along Priyadarshni Colony. The scrap dealers' colony sprawls over an estimated area of 8,000 square feet and is full of discarded mugs, tubs, bottles, tyres and boxes--dengue mosquito's favourite breeding ground. “No matter how much you tell these scrap dealers about the risk of disease here, they do not bother,“ said Preeti Shah, a social worker who lives in the area.
 
 Residents have taken their problems to the sitting MLA.
 
 “We failed to evoke any response from him,“ said Preeti who works also in the area of health awareness. “The problem is not restricted to this area alone, many adjoining localities are bound to bear the brunt,“ said Dr AK Shukla.
 
 
  
 In Jankipuram, it is traffic jams that make people sick. “Traffic jams are an everyday thing in the area.While noise causes headache, irratability and sleep disturbances, air pollution makes it worse for those with lung issues,“ said Prof   of Lucknow University. This is in addition to the risk of seasonal infections caused by waterlogged roads and poor garbage management. “My biggest nightmare is to get stuck in a traffic jam in case of a medical emergency,“ he said.
 
 Homemaker Neha Sinha, who has a history of asthma, is a victim of pollution. “The day I forget to close my windows, I am sure to take ill. We have a small garden but we cannot make use of it because of noise and air pollution,“ she said.
 
 Retired banker   said, “Air pollution is known to raise blood pressure levels and may cause cardiac or brain stroke. Constant exposure to pollution coupled with high stress poses the risk of lifestyle diseases to all of us.“
 
 “I find it difficult to trust private hospitals. Absense of qualified doctors, essential paperwork, non-issuance of receipts and such create a sense of ambiguity about them,“ said Vijay Lakshmi, a homemaker in Aliganj.
 
 Mahanagar has one government hospital--Bhaurao Devras Hospital.Aliganj resident Yash Goel said, “It looks like a dispensary. There is no one at the hospital at night. I think the place will serve a better use if a paid evening OPD service was started here,“ he said.
 
