MUMBAI: The Bombay   has directed the education   to release the March   of 43 staff members, including the headmistress, of St John The Evangelist School at Marol, Andheri (east) and continue to pay it every month.

 The interim relief by a bench headed by Justice Shantanu Kemkar came on a petition by the school, a minority institution, and its trustee challenging the orders of the inspector to reinstate a teacher. The inspector had threatened to discontinue the school grant if the teacher was not reinstated. “There are three high court judgments which say the education officer has no powers. As many as 35 teaching and nine non-teaching staff are affected,” the school’s advocate Arvind Kothari argued on April 27.
 
 The petition said that Tejinder Kandhari joined as an assistant teacher in August 1992. On July 8, 2015 she inflicted “corporal punishment” on a class VI student. It said she removed the boy’s spectacles and squeezed his ears so hard that the nail marks were visible much after the incident. He was hospitalized the same day. On July 10 his parents filed an FIR and went to the school with the media. 
 
 The petition stated that Kandhari had been pulled up before by principals. Since there was “fear psychosis among students and her presence dissuaded them from coming to school”, a memo was issued to her. Kandhari resigned on July 13 but a week later sought to withdraw her resignation. The Maharashtra Rajya Shikshak Sena wrote to the school that her resignation was forcibly obtained.
 
 When the school submitted the October 2015 salary bills, they were told that there were orders from higher officials not to release the salary. The inspector called the school for a hearing. The school declined, saying the inspector had no powers to hear disputes, which are within the jurisdiction of the school tribunal, as reiterated by the high court. Through the intervention of education minister Vinod Tawde, the October 2015 salary was released. Since Tawde had directed the inspector to investigate the matter, in June 2016 the inspector directed Kandhari’s reinstatement. The court directed release of salary and issued notice to the inspector and Kandhari.
 
 
