Nagpur: Although the Indian Medical Association (IMA) called off its strike following positive assurances from Maharashtra chief minister  , the resident doctors refused to budge from their mass leave stance, pointing out that the CM didn’t meet the residents and didn’t hear their demands. Efforts were on by IMA and some members of the   (MARD) to convince resident doctors to rejoin work.

 Apparently, the residents were disturbed by the statement by Fadnavis in the assembly, where he attacked doctors for their adamant view. The CM said in his statement that the doctors were being paid from the citizens’ pocket and if the strike was not called off stern action would be taken by the government. “Doctors have become insensitive. Why offence should not be registered against them for negligence?” he had asked.
 
 Meanwhile, IMA’s Maharashtra state representatives, including two doctors from city Dr   and Dr YS Deshpande met the CM. They claimed to have had a very positive discussion with him before calling off the IMA strike. According to IMA, ten demands were agreed upon. These include appointment of 700 armed security from   (MPSC) within five days, and rest (total 1,100) within 15 days.
 
 Pravin Dixit, ex-DIG, would undertake a security audit of all GMCs and hospitals to submit a report. Interim security measures would also be in place soon. Superintendents of police have been instructed to post armed police force at all GMCs immediately and convert all medico-legal case police chowkis to FIR recording chowkis in all hospitals.
 
 The chairman of IMA youth wing, former central MARD president Dr  , has made certain suggestions to solve the residents’ problems. He is demanding change in the act and wants a central act too to protect doctors. He suggested there should be no bail to accused for minimum three months, with the gravity of crime and injury to assaulted doctor or medical staff to be decided by a medical committee, law to punish bystanders and trespassers, with all present during assault to face trial for abetment to crime. In case of attack, police on duty should face immediate suspension for dereliction of duties. Any reasonable action taken by doctor or hospital in self defence should not be punishable under law, he said.
 
