Chennai: With the Republican party planning to repeal and replace the US Affordable   Act (popularly known as Obamacare), it is not just IT majors and pharma companies, but also smaller cloud-based startups and the virtual medical scribe industry in India that are facing a lot of uncertainty.

 Some are already seeing an adverse impact. “We are seeing a definite slowdown in business this quarter. It’s mostly because of the uncertainty. Clinics, physicians would like to wait and watch, see how the regulations pan out, before signing up (new contracts),” said Harsneh Preet, chief compliance officer in IDS Infotech, a Chandigarh-based company that does medical scribing and maintains electronic health records (EHR) and which two years ago won a $1-million contract from US-based Augmedix.
 
 US president Donald Trump’s protectionist rhetoric is also worrying these ventures, who think hospitals might become wary of offshoring.
 
 Ravina Jain, CEO of Vistara Health, which helps medical tourists from the US, Middle East, Africa and South-East Asia with treatment plans and insurance coverage through web and mobile solutions, said if things get tough in the US, the company will expand into Europe and increase its presence in Africa. She said Obamacare did a lot towards making healthcare cheap, affordable and digital. “It sought to increase digitisation of EHR and EMR (electronic medical records) and many SaaS (software as a service) and cloud startups in India bagged contracts in the US. Now, we have this new plan that seeks to undermine everything that was built,” she added.
 
 After Obamacare made it compulsory to maintain extensive records on every patient interaction, doctors found they were spending more time in front of a computer than with a patient. This led to a surge in demand for medical scribing and the EHR and EMR services. And since India offered a cost-effective option, many hospitals and physicians offshored this work. “When a doctor examines a patient in the US, the medical scribe in India will be listening in on the consultation, treatment or surgery. He will be typing out the conversation, instructions to the lab, prescription, symptoms – just about everything that the doctor would have had to manually type out. It’s a huge cost-saving for doctors and everyone wants our services,” Dr Afser Shariff, co-founder & chief medical officer of S10 Health, told TOI in an earlier interview. S10 handles data collection at more than 160 US clinics.
 
 However, some believe it’s too early to start worrying. Trump’s healthcare plan that has been proposed to replace Obamacare has met with a lot of opposition in Congress, even among Republicans and healthcare experts. “It could take months and maybe even years to come up with an adequate substitute for Obamacare. And even after the repeal, we don’t know if they will retain parts of the original Act,” said Satbir Singh Hora, head of operations of Ahmedabad-based Contech, another medical scribe and EHR company.
 
 Gopi Natarajan, CEO of Bengaluru-based Omega Healthcare, which provides medical billing, coding, and other healthcare related services, said it wouldn’t be easy to remove 20 million people from the insurance system (those who benefited from Obamacare). “And even if it happens, less than 1% of the volume of our work would be affected,” he added.
 
 
