KANNUR: With the local residents at Ramanthali near the   (INA) at Ezhimala in the district strengthening their agitation against the sewage treatment plant (STP) inside the campus, alleging that it causes the water contamination in the locality, chief minister   would hold talks with the INA authorities as well as people’s representatives on Thursday.

 The meeting will be held at the Government Rest House at Payyannur at 3 p m, and officers from the Pollution Control Board (PCB), the Centre for Water Resource Development among others would also take part in the discussions with the INA officials, said district collector Mir Mohammed Ali.
 
 The decision for discussion comes at a time when the agitation is on by two separate groups. While the Jana Arogya Samrakshana Samithi, which began the agitation in the beginning against the plant, revived the stir last week and action council vice chairman P K Narayanan is on indefinite hunger strike, the other action committee, under C Krishnan, MLA is on a sit-in agitation outside the campus.
 
 Though the INA authorities have said the claim of the local residents is baseless and the plant is functioning properly without causing any contamination, they agreed that the STP is yet to get the approval from the PCB, which has suggested them to upgrade it as per the enhanced norms.
 
 According to the INA authorities, no agency including Centre for Water Resource Development and Management (CWRDM) which tested the water in the locality, has conclusively said that the contamination of groundwater wells at Ramanthali could be attributed to the leakages in the STP.
 
 But the INA claim is baseless and they should be willing to address the issues faced by the local residents, said Jana Arogya Samrakshana Samithi convener K V Sunil Kumar.
 
 “Though the agitators would not be included in the discussions, our expectation is that there would be a positive outcome in the discussions with the chief minister,” he said.
  
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the INA has alleged that the protestors assaulted the naval personnel and their families. According to an official press release issued by the INA, six officers were physically assaulted in separate incidents on March 28.
 
 The ‘unruly elements’ among the protestors outside the main gate of the INA stopped their cars and resorted to verbal abuse and scratching and stoning to damage the vehicles. The INA authorities has urged the district collector and the district police chief to take immediate steps to avoid any untoward incident in future and ensure the safety of the naval personnel and their families residing in the station, said the release.
 
