CHANDIGARH: With families moving out to celebrate  , there were traffic snarls on most major roads in Chandigarh, Panchkula, and Mohali on Saturday.

 In Chandigarh, traffic congestion was spotted on the entire Madhya Marg, while commuters had to wait for at least two or three signals to cross a traffic light. Roads around Sector 17 were the most congested. A commuter, Niti Saxena, said she had expected heavy traffic on Saturday. “A lot of people step out for celebrations and shopping too,” she said.
 
 There was traffic snarl in Sector 46 too, with vehicles lined up on both sides of the road. Here, traffic police cops struggled to ease congestion. Another commuter,  , said there was hardly any parking left in major markets of the city. “A distance that is normally covered in 10 minutes took more than 40 minutes. All major roads were jammed,” he said.
 
 A traffic cop deployed in Sector 22, Kulbir Sodhi, told TOI that they had been trying their best to ease traffic. “We had planned beforehand that is why the situation as not as bad as it could have been,” Sodhi said.
 
 
 
 
 In Mohali, traffic snarls were the most common around venues where the effigies of  ,   and Meghnath were set on fire. At effigy-burning venues in Phase I and Phase VIII, there were some   because people had parked their vehicles on the roadside to see fireworks.
 
 These serpentine queues of parked vehicles were the main cause of minor traffic snarls. Children were seen standing atop vehicles to watch celebrations. Police were finding it tough to manage the traffic amid the festivities. A traffic cop posted at a crossing in Phase VIII said, “We are trying to manage traffic, but people request us to relax as it is festival time.”
 
 In Phase VIII, effigies of “babas” (preachers) were set on fire. An organized, Madhu Bhushan, said they did this because “babas were no less an evil when compared to Ravan”. “This will send a message to people to stay away from these present-day devils,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 There was little traffic chaos due to Dussehra festivities in Panchkula on Saturday. The only traffic trouble was seen near Parade Ground, Sector 5, the main venue for burning the effigies.
 
 From Families to youngsters, everybody came to the ground to see the fireworks. It was only around the venue that there were traffic snarls. Though traffic cops were managing traffic, there was chaos for around an hour. A resident of Panchkula’s Sector 24, Mohit Kumar, said he had expected the traffic chaos. “After all, it is festival time. It’s not an inconvenience. I came here to show my kids fireworks,” he said.
 
 The SHO for Panchkula police’s traffic wing, Inspector Suresh Kumar, said there was minimal chaos because they had made a plan in view of the festivities. “No traffic jam took place throughout the event,” he said.
 
 
