BENGALURU:  , India’s second largest software services company by revenue, reported a 1.4% sequential decline in dollar revenue to $2.55 billion for the third quarter. On constant currency, which discounts the effect of currency fluctuations, revenue was down 0.3%.

 The company expects its revenue for the full year to grow between 8.4-8.8%, from 8-9% it expected in October. "Taking into account seasonal and other additional headwinds for the quarter, our   performance was broadly in line with our expectations," CEO   said.
 
 The trimming of the top end of its guidance suggests the challenge the company is facing when the IT landscape is changing at a rapid pace. The traditional information technology services delivery model has been under stress for the last two years also due to pricing pressures and clients splitting up multi-million dollar contracts among different vendors.
 
 Moreover, the rapid adoption of new age technology such as cloud, machine learning and artificial intelligence implies the existing talent needs to be reskilled quickly, something that Sikka has stressed upon since becoming the CEO in 2014.
 
 For the third quarter, Infosys’ operating margins increased 0.2% to 25.1% sequentially while net profit rose 1.5% to $547 million.
 
 “In a seasonally soft quarter, our utilization has remained healthy,” said chief operating officer U B Pravin Rao. “Our continued efforts to improve employee engagement and experience resulted in a reduction in attrition.”
 
 The results, however, does not fare well compared to TCS which reported a 0.3% rise in sequential dollar revenue in the third quarter helped by demand for digital services and improved results from its banking financial services, insurance (BFSI) and energy and utilities sector.
 
 Infosys said revenue from its banking financial services and insurance sector (BFSI) inched down to 33.1% from 33.3% sequentially while contribution from the insurance sector rose to 6.1% from 5.7%. TCS said on Thursday that the momentum was back in the sector which had been weak for some time.
 
 Shares of Infosys were almost flat, trading at Rs 998 in morning trade on the BSE on Friday.
 
