On  , observed globally on the last Sunday of September each year, around 200 Hyderabadis assembled at  , a reservoir of  , to endorse their support to the cause of saving the rapidly depleting water bodies of the country. Interestingly, this gathering mooted by supporters of the nationwide ‘Rally for Rivers’ campaign, also saw active participation by locals from nearby villages, who pledged to work towards revitalising water bodies in and around their area.
“We had planned this gathering keeping in mind the World Rivers Day. So far, the ‘Rally For Rivers’ campaign is known mostly among the people in the cities of Telangana. But unless local communities embrace the campaign, the movement won’t have the same impact. So we wanted to develop a local connect and bring in representatives of the nearby villages to join the movement,” says Raghav Mukund, an entrepreneur who’s been rallying for rivers. Members of Legislative Councils, sarpanches and zilla parishad representatives of nearby villages such as Kokapet, Narsingi and Khanapur along with villagers extended support to the campaign and got apprised about the issue and its consequential impact. “I believe it is a great initiative and I would do whatever it takes to contribute towards it. First, we will organise a meeting in our village and chalk out plans to save the Musi River, which is one of the prime river sources to flow directly into Gandipet Lake. It’s not going to be easy but we are determined to do so. We will also seek help from the government if needed,” says T Mallesh, member of Mandal Praja Parishad, Khanapur.
 
 The planning for Sunday’s assemblage began a couple of weeks ago. “Initially, the local village body members didn’t know much about 'Rally For Rivers’. So, first we informed them about the goal of the campaign and how one can contribute towards it. We also showed videos and briefed them about the significance of the issue. Later, they volunteered to be part of it,” says Anita Atmakur, a participant.
 
 Raghav says the event was a success because of two reasons — the ground work that went behind it and social media. “We reached out to as many people as possible through social media. We also went to the villages to get in touch with them on a personal level and convinced them to give ‘the missed call to save India’s rivers’. It is very important to save the rivers of Telangana as, just like for any other state, they are its lifeline,” he says adding that they have also composed a Bathukamma song in support of the campaign, which everybody sang in unison.
 
