JAIPUR: Special operation group ( ) wing of Rajasthan police on Tuesday have arrested a 31-year-old software engineer for allegedly making fake pan cards which were used by the gang involved in the embezzlement of Rs 16 crore from the Alwar’s  . The gang members, including its kingpin   and his father Ashok Joshi, had allegedly used these fake pan cards to siphon off nearly Rs 8.91 crore by applying loans in the name of fake firms. 

 SOG, while solving the mystery behind the seizure of Rs 1.34 crore that belonged to Alwar Urban Cooperative Bank, had arrested five persons for embezzling Rs 16 crore and exchanging money worth over Rs 1 lakh illegally from the bank. The arrested included Abhishek Joshi (37), the mastermind; Om   (55), former chairman;   (56), present chairman; Mridul Joshi (34), Abhishek's brother, and Ashok Joshi (58), bank director and father of Abhishek. Thereafter, Ashok Gupta, a chartered accountant, was arrested by SOG in this case. 
 
 During the investigation, it was found that Rs 16 crore siphoning off included Rs 8.91 crore which were taken out from the bank through applying loan from the bank by fake papers. 
 
 “It was found that accused identified as Manpreet Singh, a software engineer who owns a firm in Delhi, had provided 368 pan cards which were used in applying for the loan. The loan was applied through fake firms. 92 fake firms floated by the gang had applied for loan. Each firm had to attach 4 Pancards which included one for the proprietor, one for partner of the girm and 2 each for its guarantor. Each firm had thus attached 386 total pan cards which were all prepared by the arrested accused,” said Dinesh MN, Inspector General of police, SOG on Tuesday. 
 
 In the arrest, Pushpa, a sub-inspector posted at the Delhi situated SOG officer, played a key role. “She went to Singh’s office as a client who wanted to do some deal and insisted that she will only speak to the arrested software engineer. Initially he did not turn up and finally when he came for the deal the woman,” Dinesh added. 
 
