KOCHI: City corporation has decided to act tough on telecom service providers that dig up  's roads without   and paying the  .   said that the corporation would explore all means, including blacklisting of such companies. TOI had carried a series of reports, unearthing the `foul play' by these firms.

  The opposition raised the issue at the council meeting on Wednesday . “We lodged complaints with city police against Airtel that dug up city roads without authorization. But, police is adopting a lukewarm attitude in probing the case. Though we took up the issue with the DGP, there isn't much progress in the probe,“ said Jain, adding that strict action will be taken against the company .
 
 On the issue of an official sending demand notice to Airtel for paying road restoration charges and track rent, even while the application for the purpose submitted by the telecom firm is yet to get the concurrence of works standing committee and corporation council, the mayor explained the scenario.
 
 “When the application by Airtel came up, the works standing committee handed it over to finance standing committee for fixing road restoration charges, service tax and track rent. The committee sent back the file with a suggestion that the rates can be the same that has been recorded in a similar file earlier. Assistant executive engineer of Fort Kochi sent a demand notice to the telecom firm rather than placing the file for the consideration of works standing committee and corporation council. So, we would be taking action against the official,“ Jain said.
 
 The telecom firm went one more step ahead and dug up corporation's road without paying the amount as per the notice. The works standing committee, which looked into the issue, has suggested registering a case against the telecom firm under Prevention of Damages to Public Property (PDPP). The mayor said that case would be registered as per the suggestion by the works standing committee.
 
 At the same time, Jain said that she was unaware of digging up roads by other telecom operators like Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL).
 
 Moolamkuzhy councillor P S Prakash said that contractors dug up 400m of the corporation's road without permission. Councillors Nassema P M of Chakkaraparambu and Vijayakumar from Devankulangara said the contractors of telecom firm dug up roads in their division illegally . “I have not received any complaint against RJIL. The councillors should inform me about the issue if officials are not acting on their complaints against the telecom firm,“ Jain said. She also said that action would be taken against RJIL also if there is merit in the complaints.
 
 At the same time, works standing committee chair man P M Harris said he had raised the cases of road cutting by telecom firms, including RJIL.
 
 “I raised all these cases of illegal digging up of roads by these firms several times.Then, the mayor and other councillors were present,“ he said. Harris had witnessed unauthorized digging up of roads near Kumaranasan Road and Ashoka Road near Kaloor. In both the cases, he had instructed corporation secretary to file cases under  
 
 “Works standing committee had sent at least three files on regulating telecom firms and bringing in transparency in digging up roads and paying compensation for council consideration. But, those files including the one for introducing a bylaw for fixing compensation are yet to be placed before the council,“ he said. It is the mayor who is to fix the items to be placed before the council.
 
