Vadodara: Amul has hit out at Hindustan Unilever (HUL) that has filed a case in   against the   (GCMMF) terming its recently launched Amul TV campaign differentiating between ice cream and frozen desserts as “misleading”. 

 In a statement issued on Saturday, GCMMF’s managing director R S Sodhi said that Amul is not going to be intimidated by the legal notice of HUL. 
 
 Going a step further, India’s largest food brand has said it is also planning to run a similar campaign of real cheese versus cheese analogues which has recently entered the market.
 
 “Like pure ghee versus dalda campaign, similar ad campaign on butter versus margarine is also on air and we are also planning to run a similar campaign of real cheese versus cheese analogues,” GCMMF said in the statement. 
 
 HUL, which markets “Kwality Walls”, has filed the petition in the Bombay High Court against GCMMF, seeking immediate removal of the advertisement. 
 
 “It may be noted that   brand name is neither mentioned or hinted at in the advertisement,” the statement issued by GCMMF states, adding that the TV campaign reinforces the   of the brand, that is, Amul ice creams are made from real milk as compared to frozen desserts that are made from vegetable oils.
 
 “This campaign highlights the mandate of checking the word ‘ice cream’ on the packs before buying them,” the release states, adding that ice cream is manufactured using only dairy ingredients as raw material as per the Food Safety and Standards Regulation, 2011.
 
 The release alleged that “Kwality Walls have been masquerading their frozen desserts made from vegetable oils as ice cream for so many years.” 
 
 “Frozen desserts are masquerading as ice creams. By using low cost ingredients, they are misleading the consumers who are looking for real product. We are trying to make consumers aware of the difference,” Sodhi was quoted in the release. 
 
 Further, it termed as “unfortunate” that “Indian companies who genuinely work in interest of milk producers and consumers alike are being threatened with legal suits for saying the true facts.” 
 
 Talking to media persons, Sodhi said that HUL had in October 2016 objected to Amul’s pamphlet campaign differentiating between ice cream and frozen desserts. “Later, however, the  , the self regulatory body of advertising industry, had upheld our right as manufacturer to inform our customers about the difference,” he said.
 
 
