 The   (ICJ), which is the  's principal judicial organ, is holding a public hearing where India and   will be asked to present their case over the contentious Jadhav issue.

 
  Last month, a Pakistani military court awarded death sentence to former   official   for alleged espionage and subversive activities.
 
 
 India denied that he has any connection with the government and charged that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he was involved in business activities after retiring from the Indian Navy. However, Pakistan claimed to have arrested him from   on March 3, 2016.
 
 
  
  to seek justice for Kulbhushan Jadhav, alleging violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations by Pakistan after its 16 requests for consular access to the former naval officer was consistently denied.
 
 
 Following India's petition, the ICJ had on May 9 ordered the temporary suspension of the death sentence awarded to Yadav by Pakistan.
 
 
 Pakistan registered its strong opposition to the ICJ'S ruling and said it does not accept the international court's jurisdiction to order the state of Pakistan on issues that involve its national stability
 
 
 India has asked the ICJ to declare the death sentence illegal, being violative of international law and treaty rights, and restrain Pakistan from acting in violation of the Vienna Convention and international law by giving effect to the sentence or the conviction in any manner, and directing it to release the convicted Indian National forthwith, if Pakistan is unable to annul the decision.
 
 
 India believes that its case is built around the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR) optional protocol which both countries are signatory to and which accords primacy to ICJ in disputes arising out of interpretation and application of VCCR.
 
 
  Pakistan is likely to argue that its own national laws and that its 2008 bilateral agreement on consular access with India take precedence over VCCR. The problem with this argument, as Indian officials pointed out, is that this agreement has not yet been registered with the UN Secretariat.
 
 
 The ICJ was last a battleground for India and Pakistan nearly 18 years ago when Islamabad sought its intervention over the shooting down of its naval aircraft. Pakistan claimed the reconnaissance aircraft Atlantique was brought down in its air space and sought $60 million in damages from India for the incident. A 16-judge bench of the court on June 21, 2000 voted 14-2 to dismiss Pakistan's claim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
