NAGPUR: There are over 3 million epileptic women in India, which is more or less equal to the rate of epileptic men. However, compared to men, epileptic women are more at risk due to hormonal changes, and hence need to be diligently followed for lifetime. Unfortunately, epileptic women in our country are mostly neglected and hormonal changes are not diligently followed.

 These were some of the issues handled by epileptologist Dr   while talking to TOI. Dr Baheti addressed physicians on ‘Approach to women with epilepsy’ during the two-day conference ‘VAPICON’, organized by   (Vidarbha Chapter), at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines.
 
 Epilepsy can often be controlled in men and they can get on with their normal lives. Contrarily, an epileptic women has more issues to deal with. Hormonal changes in women leading to mensuration, PCOC, obesity, menopause etc have a huge effect on epilepsy. Also, hormonal changes keep on occurring throughout her life.
 
 Dr Baheti said, “A physician should be well aware all such hormonal issues of women, to treat epilepsy in a better way, therapeutically as well and as for counselling.”
 
 In the end, he said, “It’s a myth that women with epilepsy cannot conceive, or will have problem in pregnancy, or the kids will be abnormal. The truth is that epilepsy across the world can be managed and any epileptic women can lead a normal life with the right treatment and controlled seizures.”
 
 He also spoke about ‘Absence Epilepsy’, a form of epilepsy seen commonly in kids. “With this kind of epilepsy, the child will appear temporarily absent. Initially, the seizure will last for merely 10 seconds and the child will simply go blank for that span of time and blink his eyes. Parents or teachers might interpret it as poor attention or day dreaming. Instead, elders should notice the symptoms, pick them up and see a physician, else such episodes will happen more often.”
 
 During the two-day conference, topics like ‘Chemofree world of Haematological malignancies’ by Dr   and ‘Changing trends in the management of DVT treatment’ by Dr   were also covered.
 
