Prime Minister   appears to be in fine political fettle at the end of three years in office. He has had an emphatic win in Uttar Pradesh, successfully weathered all criticism on demonetisation and is today clearly the most popular leader in the country.
 
  The   has never had a leader with such a pan-India appeal in the past. Which is the reason why the party has decided at this moment to expand its presence in a way that translates into real electoral gains.
  
  This is easily the first time that the BJP, riding on Modi’s popularity, is in a position to win seats even in states where it’s considered a bit player.
  
  But the PM’s popularity alone cannot explain this shift in political momentum. The back story also lies in the way the BJP has managed to leverage its positive image and reap the wind more effectively. Modi’s imprint on transforming the BJP political machine started with his own 2014 campaign that was run independently of the party set-up, though very much in coordination.
  
  This, in itself, set high standards, which is what necessitated to the appointment of   as party president. Both Modi and Shah, being outsiders to the BJP’s own Lutyen’s clique, came with almost no baggage, no bias. There were no favourites or acolytes, which made it possible to pick talent on merit, even if that meant poaching aspirants from other parties where required. While that helped brand BJP as a party with opportunity, it also rendered old cliques and groups meaningless. The big outcome of this churn was excellent, almost flawless government-party coordination.
  
  Let’s not forget this was a major problem area for Modi’s predecessors Manmohan Singh and Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In fact, Singh was even undermined on many occasions by the Congress. Which is why the BJP as opposition devised a campaign around a weak   during UPA-2. Between Modi and Shah, they have this well worked out. As a result, political messaging of government initiatives has been quite effective. Demonetisation is a good example in this basket.
  
  Next, the government, by recognising the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) as the basis of its key social sector schemes like MNREGA and Ujjwala, has turned the poverty line debate on its head. What we have now is a deprived category list that is more inclusive and larger based on multiple parameters than just income. The SECC, along with Aadhar has made government interventions more targeted and less complicated.
  
  The other key feature of the PM’s working is a strong monitoring system that applies as much on states as the Centre. By way of digital platforms, satellite communications and regular use of video-conference, the PM and his officials can directly communicate across hierarchies.
  
  This has also allowed the Centre stretch the limits of its constitutional influence in states by getting the PM to directly speak with chief secretaries and relevant officials in states on specific projects through the Pragati exercise.
  
  What’s important to understand here is the stress on getting the PM to be able to directly communicate to the extent possible, which in itself buttresses the centrality of PMO in all political and administrative initiatives.
  
  It’s loosely said that the PM has this frame in his mind of teams doing different things. Each doing their bit with none having an overbearing influence on the other.
  
  In other words, there is no one chief of staff or super bureaucrat responsible for everything, but a handful depending on the task at hand. In that sense, the PM runs a tight ship, leaving almost no scope for power centres to find their feet. 
