PATNA: To head an academic institution, which has been one’s alma mater and workplace, is indeed a dream come true for a teacher. But, for  , who took over as   (PU) vice-chancellor recently, the opportunity came as a challenge of sorts due to high expectations from teachers, students and non-teaching staff of the university. In an interview with B K Mishra, Prasad said he will work for the all-round development of this premier university, the seventh oldest in the country. Excerpts:

 You have joined as the vice-chancellor of Patna University in its centenary year. How do you plan to revive its old glory?
 
 Any university is known by its academics. PU was considered one of the topmost universities in the country until three to four decades ago, but unfortunately its academic standard has declined considerably in recent years. My first priority would be to improve the work culture of the university and recreate a healthy academic atmosphere on the campus. Necessary steps would be initiated to augment the infrastructural facilities so that students and faculty members might stay on the campus for long hours and carry on their academic pursuits in a hassle-free environment.
 
 What will you do to promote quality teaching and research in the university?
 
 Regular academic activities will be ensured in all the colleges and post-graduate departments of the university. The process of appointment of teachers has already begun and, hopefully, all the vacant posts would be filled soon. In the meantime, efforts would be made to hire the services of retired teachers and NET-qualified junior research fellows for engaging the classes. Teachers of each college and   would be individually asked to submit research proposals to different funding agencies like UGC so that meaningful research work could be undertaken. Besides, some international collaborations are also likely to be made by PU departments soon. The PU central library would be digitized and the research scholars would be provided free access to the online journals. The publication of faculty wise research journals and PU news bulletin would be revived to promote an environment of research.
 
 What about PU’s centenary celebrations?
 
 PU will hold its centenary celebrations on a grand scale on October 1 this year. Prime Minister   is being approached for inaugurating the celebrations. It has already been decided to establish a centenary cultural centre with an auditorium, cafeteria, library and information centre in the proposed complex. A centenary run is also being planned wherein all the students, teachers, non-teaching staff and alumni would participate enthusiastically. Extra-mural lectures by eminent scholars from different fields would also be organized.
 
