Life without the   is unimaginable for most of us. From connecting with people through social media to buying groceries online, the World Wide Web is practically a second — albeit virtual — home. It comes as no surprise that along with younger generations,   too have hopped onto the internet bandwagon. Although considered to be a minority, rising figures each year show that these ‘silver surfers’ are the largest growing demographic of internet users.

 While senior citizens’ online activities were previously restricted to video-calling distant relatives and keeping tabs on those they couldn’t meet regularly, these pensioners have now diversified their internet usage drastically. “Since we’re quite old, we don’t go out of the house often, so the internet is how we spend most of our time,” says 63-year-old Vani Giri from JP Nagar. She goes online several times during the day and frequently adds ‘interesting’   friends from the website’s suggestions. “I see others’ news feeds, like or share whatever I appreciate, and even upload photographs whenever I click new ones!” Vani sums up her online activities.
 
 Despite the internet being named as the main cause for social isolation amongst youngsters, elderly users echo contrasting sentiments. “Having an internet connection is so helpful for us,” says TN Lakshman Rao, 80-year-old Vice-President of Kumara Vyasa Mantapa in Rajajinagar. “It helps to stave off the loneliness that comes with old age, and offers so much entertainment. I use the net for about two to three hours a day at least, reading spiritual literature and listening to devotional songs. Facebook and other media helps me share humanitarian posts, keeping me occupied,” he states. His wife, 72-year-old Pushpa Lakshman, chimes in with her take. “I have a lot of interest in cooking and handicrafts, but I can’t act on them. So being able to watch these shows online is satisfying,” she says. Pushpa also plays games online, and   virtually counts as her hobby. “You can watch shows on TV as well. But on the internet, you can watch them whenever it is convenient for you. Also you get to select languages and get related suggestions for more videos,” she adds.
 
 
  
 
 Undoubtedly, social media and the internet has been a huge boon for senior citizens, offering them a myriad of activities and options to ward off boredom and isolation. However, they also provide retirees with an option to carry on with their passion beyond their working years, productively shaping their time.
 
 Senior fashionistas like Dorrie Jacobson (79) and Judith (71) run active fashion pages on Instagram, with thousands of followers that appreciate their timeless style. And bloggers like John Schappi have taken to virtual spaces to narrate their experiences and struggles with illnesses such as Parkinson’s. Predictably, interactive platforms like these have seen a surge in ‘silver’ users over the last few years.
 82-year-old RL Gaikwad, a history enthusiast, continues to explore his passion in 
  and Indian history through the internet. “There exist several gaps in Indian history, and I can dig deeper into those only via the net. Also, I love Bal Gandharva’s 
 , and episodes of it aren’t usually found anywhere else,” he explains. Using the internet to download e-books and plays from different eras, his enthusiasm is kept alive by the mines of data found online.
 
 It is undeniable now that senior citizens are significant players in the virtual world. With huge escalations in senior internet-users over the years, it is only a matter of time now before social media and web-spaces intended solely for these silver surfers start to dominate the world wide web.
 
 Sanjana Sindhe
 
