VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when there’s an urgent need to conserve the environment and biodiversity from becoming extinct due to undue human intervention, a   from Vizag is tirelessly working towards   of endangered wildlife in the   through a community-based approach. He has also designed wildlife interpretation centres in several sanctuaries, zoos and national parks.

 Born and brought up in a village near Simhachalam,   Murthy, a master-degree holder in zoology, is the founder-president of the Eastern Ghats Wildlife Society (EGWS). He is actively involved in organising various programmes to raise awareness on   among target groups. He works closely with local communities throughout the Eastern Ghats and educates them. He trains volunteers and employs part-time research assistants, building capacity among local communities to become empowered stakeholders in conservation of wildlife. He also conducts education workshops in schools and public awareness programmes.
 
 “My goal is to conserve wildlife of the Eastern Ghats by creating a harmonious relationship between humans and wildlife. The Eastern Ghats is close to my heart as my native place. Wildlife conservation can’t happen without the involvement of people. Most of my programmes focus on community outreach and behaviour change models aimed at instilling community stewardship to conserve the precious natural resources,” he said and added, “There are large tracts of habitat, rich in biodiversity that need legal protection status and conservation with community support. I wish to achieve this in the Eastern Ghats region.”
 
 Apart from conserving small wild cats, he works towards conservation of snakes, native and migratory birds and mammals like the Indian Pangolin and the Smooth-Coated Otters.
 
 Recipient of Prakruti Mitra award from Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Murthy has also made presentations about conservation work throughout India and Asia and has been a guest presenter at many zoos in the US. He undertook Emerging Wildlife Conservation Leadership Programme (www.wildlifeleaders.org) supported by the Wildlife Conservation Network, USA.
 
 Murthy designed wildlife interpretation centres across India in over 20 wildlife sanctuaries, national parks and zoos. “Wildlife interpretation centres are designed to convey the biodiversity richness of a protected area and its ecological importance to general public by using various theme-based media like photo-text panels, interactive displays, dioramas, video and sound systems. The main objective of such centres is to sensitise people about nature and give them an overview of wildlife of the area,” elaborated Murthy.
 
