NEW DELHI: BJP has shifted its UP campaign headquarters from state capital Lucknow to Varanasi, PM Modi’s constituency, which goes to the polls on March 8.
 
  Party chief   is expected to spend most of his time in Varanasi till the end of campaigning as part of BJP’s strategy to maximise its chances on 89 seats of Poorvanchal (eastern UP), which will vote in the last two phases of the election on March 4 and March 8, party workers said. They said the party’s increasingly aggressive poll pitch is also part of this strategy.
  
  Shah arrived in Varanasi straight from his roadshow in Allahabad on February 21 and may hold a big roadshow in the holy city on the last day of campaigning on March 6. A rally of the PM has been planned in Varanasi on March 3, which will be followed by two more rallies by the PM in Mirzapur and Jaunpur. BJP planned to field its star campaigners after CM   and Congress veep   held a joint roadshow in Varanasi on February 27.
  
  The party’s campaign has acquired a more aggressive edge, with Shah coining the acronym ‘Kasab’ for Congress, SP and BSP, and Modi’s comments on ‘Kabristan-Shamshan (graveyard-cremation ground)’.
  
  “Eastern UP is now our stronghold, with Yogi Adityanath strong in the Gorakhpur region and PM’s popularity in the Varanasi region. Sweeping the 89 seats in Phase-VI and VII is crucial to us for crossing the magic mark,” a senior BJP leader said.
  
  Citing an internal assessment, BJP strategists said they were confident that the party will finish as the single largest party despite the “setback” in the first two phases of election in western UP. A spectacular showing in Poorvanchal could still tilt the scales for a majority, a BJP leader said, even as the party had won just 11 seats out of 89 in 2012, behind SP that won 50 and BSP which won 14.
  
  
 
  
  Congress had then won seven seats.
  
  BJP had won just one out of the nine seats in Jaunpur, three out of the eight seats in Varanasi and none out of the 10 seats in Azamgarh. In Gorakhpur, the party won just three out of the eight seats. However, the party is banking on its good showing in 2014 general election, when it swept 17 out of the 18 Lok Sabha seats in Poorvanchal, barring Azamgarh, which was won by SP patriarch  . A senior leader said BJP’s vote share in Azamgarh rose from 10% in 2012 to almost 33% in 2014, almost equal to that of SP. In Varanasi, BJP won a whopping 53% of the votes in 2014 while in Jaunpur it almost tripled its vote share to 39% in 2014. BJP is hence aiming to retain this vote share in Poorvanchal.
  
  “With the Quami Ekta Dal and Mukhtar Ansari joining the BSP, Muslim votes are set to split in Poorvanchal amongst BSP and SPCongress,” a party leader said. Union health minister JP Nadda has also reached Varanasi to camp there.
  
  Shah is holding extensive sessions in Varanasi with BJP leaders and party’s Poorvanchal MPs after flying from Varanasi for public meetings. “Flying time is shorter to Poorvanchal areas from Varanasi than Lucknow. Hence, Shah will camp here,” a BJP leader said.
  
  Union home minister  , Deoria MP Kalraj Mishra, Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel and   will also be holding public meetings in Poorvanchal 
