RANCHI: More than 6,000 youth of the state will be provided   at the first state level of Dattopant Thengri Rojgaar Mela, organized by the state labour planning, training and skill development department on Saturday.

 The first day of the two-day fair had 70 private companies organizing on-spot written test and interview for thousands of youths who had registered. 
 
 Inaugurating the fair, chief minister Raghubar Das said, “In the next five years, Jharkhand will become skilled. In the Global Investor Summit being held on February 16 and 17, many international investors would visit Jharkhand and invest here. This will provide more job opportunities and our youth will not have to leave the state to get employment.”
 
 Das announced that the next fair would be organized in   so that the youth from backward regions of the state also get job opportunity. 
 
 The CM said that after amending the domicile policy, around 30,000 people have been given government jobs and the figures would increase to 45,000 by March this year. 
 
 On the occasion, labour minister Raj Paliwar announced that a database would be created for all the employments done via the department so that the companies do not cheat the youth. “In the coming days we will organize job fair at block levels so that youth from the most interior regions of the state get jobs,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, chief secretary Rajbala Verma said that there are at present 43 employment centres across the state which need to be developed. “The department is developing these centres were the youth would be provided libraries, counselling centres and links with small and large scale industries for job opportunities,” Verma said.
 
 On the other hand, while presiding over a meeting of  , the chief minister directed that mega skill centre should be opened in Ranchi as soon as possible. 
 
 “Vocational training will be started at school, college and polytechnic level. To provide certificates for these courses, there will be an MoU between   and  ,” he said.
 
