Come November and there's a possibility that Pune won't be turning up in huge numbers for the  , as it usually does. All thanks to the recently announced 28 per cent Goods and Service Tax (GST) to be levied on classical music concerts, for tickets above `250. In simple terms, that's almost `100 more on a season's pass for students (the cheapest ticket available), who turn up in huge numbers for the classical music festival that has been a part of the city's cultural fabric for decades.

  The city hosts several such classical music festivals throughout the year, apart from the individual concerts that bring well-known and upcoming musicians, instrumentalists and vocalists to the city. The lack of audience for such concerts is quite possible if the state goes ahead with the plan, despite the letter from Srinivas Joshi, Kirana Gharana vocalist and son of late Pt Bhimsen Joshi, to the state finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar.
 
  In his quote to the Times of India, Joshi expressed his concern over the dwindling numbers of the audience who attend concerts.“Concerts and festivals of classical music are not money-spinning programmes nor are they commercial events like Bollywood musical nights,” said Joshi, who organises the annual Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav .
 
  The pinch was already experienced by  , who had organised the   last week in the city. “Ours was the first concert in the city after GST was imposed, and we had 30 per cent less audience than expected. We have also been told that the artist remuneration fee will be charged 18 per cent GST if the amount exceeds `1.5 lakh. This is unfair and disappointing,” says a dejected Upadhye. It's imminent to mention that the festival saw the likes of Grammy Award-winning artist Pt Vishwamohan Bhatt, veteran vocalist Begum Parveen Sultana, flautist Rakesh Chaurasia, and percussionist Vijay Ghate.
  
  
 
 
 
  Like Joshi, Upadhye too finds it very difficult to get an audience for the classical music concerts. “In order to promote our rich tradition, many concerts are organised free of cost. Now if you levy 28 per cent GST on those handful concerts, which have big artistes performing, then it is unfair, not only to the audience but also to the organisers who've struggled to bring them to the city. Many of these festivals, like Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav, that people are keen on attending will be affected by this. We are striving to maintain the cultural roots of our country and the government should support us,” says Upadhye.
 
  Surendra Mohite, who has founded the  , believes that it is a wrong decision taken by the government. “Most of the concerts we organise are free. There are very few concerts that are big budget and have big artistes performing. In India, there are very few organisers that take interest in classical concerts. All these efforts to promote classical music among youngsters will be hampered by this decision of the government,” Mohite adds.
 
  
  It is extremely sad. We should get a tax-free performance because the work we are doing is to preserve the culture and heritage of classical music, without any help from the government. There's no support from the government and the pay at all India radio is miserable. The organisers earn very less money from such concerts. This tax will force people to choose between artists, which will increase the struggle and make it tough for new artists to get an audience.
 
  -Anupam Joshi, sarod player
 
  Indian classical music, unlike Bollywood, is n ot practised for entertainment purposes; it is practised to keep the art alive. Moreover, the government, as far as I am aware, has done nothing for either the Indian classical music or the musicians. In that case, how can the government ask for taxes on our concerts? Rather these concerts should be made tax free, so that audience do not feel that Indian classical music is only meant for the elite class.
 
  -Abhijit Pohankar, Indian classical keyboardist
 
  It's disappointing that such a high percentage of GST has been levied on classical music concerts. Many musicians too have written to Sudhir Mungantiwar, the state finance minister, about this, requesting for no charge. I still feel that classical music shows must be tax-free because many of these concerts are organised either free of cost, or at minimal charges.
 
  -Sameep Kulkarni, Sitarist
 
 I am against 28 per cent GST. If it is so necessary, add a 12 per cent tax instead of 28 per cent, which is very high. The legacy of Indian classical music has to be carried forward, and if the ticket costs increase due to taxes, it will affect the number of audience.
 
  — Azharuddin Shaikh, flautist
 
  This is immoral to charge for a classical concert, as those are our roots. Classical musicians take years of training to get where they are. The organisers will now think twice before organising an event or will reconsider the ticket price. This will surely affect the business dynamics.
 
  - Jaywant Utpat, tabla player
 
 
 
