WASHINGTON: Eminent Indian-Americans from across the US are gearing to celebrate commencement of Donald  's presidency of the US with a ball, along with other Asian American community members, on January 19.

 The only presidential inaugural ball of its kind would also felicitate Indian-Americans who have been nominated by Trump to key positions in his administration.
 
 Prominent among them being South Carolina Governor  , who has been nominated to the position of US Ambassador to the United Nations, which is a Cabinet level post.
 
 'Asian Pacific American Presidential Inaugural Gala 2017', being organised by Trump-Pence Asian Pacific American Advisory Committee (APAAC) and the National Committee of Asian American Republicans, has several top Indian-Americans on its leadership team, including Puneet Ahuwalia from Virginia, K V Kumar from California, Shalabh Kumar from Illinois, and Harry Walia from Florida.
 
 "The Asian Pacific American Gala is defining statement of our nation's diverse strength and huge intellectual capital among the Asian American Communities. Indian-Americans should be leading the presidential inaugural celebration as we have the most to benefit from strong US-India relations," Puneet Ahluwalia, Finance Chairman of the gala, told PTI.
 
 "We are leading in numerous fields and it is time we lead in mainstream political activities," he said.
 
 The presidential inaugural gala will be held in the historic ball room of Mayflower hotel on the eve of Trump's swearing-in on January 20.
 
 "The Asian-American Gala, as part of President Trump's Inaugural, symbolises the success achieved by Indian and Asian Americans," said Vivek Lall, who has been a leading US corporate figure working with many governments globally.
 
 "Under Trump's Presidency, we can foresee a stronger America with enhanced substantial partnerships in trade and active diplomacy across the globe," he said, asserting that US-India cooperation will further deepen on multiple fronts during the incoming administration.
 
 In a statement, APAAC and the National Committee of Asian American Republicans said the inaugural ball will include celebration with prominent dignitaries and presidential appointees.
 
 70-year-old Trump, Vice president-elect Mike Pence, House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senator Marco Rubio, incoming White House Chief of Staff, Reince Priebus have been invited to the event.
 
 The event among other things would include performances from Asian Pacific American communities proudly sharing their rich cultures, a media release said.
 
 "This will be an excellent event that features our national Asian Pacific American leaders who have worked so hard to elect and represent Trump," said Eddie Baza Calvo, Governor of Guam and APAAC co-chair said.
 
