LAKHIMPUR KHERI: The situation is tense on the Indo-Nepal border at   after Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) men tried to stop a group of Nepalese citizens from constructing an illegal bridge on no man’s land. The Nepalese citizens allegedly responded to this by assembling a mob which pelted the SSB men with stones, injuring 7 border guards. In response, SSB fired in the air to disperse the crowd. The Nepalese side reported one death from firing by the SSB jawans.
 
  Heavy security has been rushed to the spot and the situation is being monitored by senior officials, who are also in talks with authorities across the border to resolve the issue.
  
  The confrontation began on Wednesday when, according to Indian officials, it was discovered that Nepalese citizens were trying to build a bridge on no-man’s land near the border crossing at   in Lakhimpur Kheri. SSB men, on receiving information about it, arrived at the site in the evening and stopped the construction from proceeding.
  
  However, on Thursday, the Nepalese group returned and began building the bridge once more. When Indian citizens, district administration and SSB officials arrived at the spot, the Nepalese citizens allegedly pelted them with stones. The Nepalese group were accompanied by policemen from that country, according to reports received by Indian officials.
  
  In the stone pelting, seven SSB men were injured, after which the Indian border guards fired in the air to disperse the mob. Nepalese officials later claimed that one of their citizens was killed in the firing. Senior officials rushed to the spot with additional forces and the situation remained tense throughout the day.
  
  “I personally inspected the site and Nepalese citizens assembled on the other side pelted stones at us, after which the SSB personnel fired in the air. Now the border crossing along this route has been completely closed until further instructions from the Union home ministry,” said Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate (DM) Akash Deep.
  
  Later in the day, a delegation of Nepalese officials arrived to hold discussions with Indian officials to resolve the issue. The delegation included the superintendent of police of Kanchanpur, Prakash Bahadur Chand, and chief district officer of Kanchanpur, Manohar Prasad Khanal, who raised the issue of the death of the Nepalese citizen in the firing. Kheri DM Akash Deep and commandant of the 39th Battalion of the SSB, Dilbag Singh, represented the Indian side and expressed their concerns about the illegal construction on no-man’s land.
  
  “The Nepalese officials have agreed not to allow further construction of the structure for now. They have also demanded action regarding the death of their citizen in the firing. We have asked them to carry out an enquiry regarding the death and give us a report about it. On our side, while seven SSB personnel were injured, this was in the stone pelting. Nobody fired on them from the Nepalese side,” DM Ashok added.
  
  Delegates from both countries will have another round of meetings on Friday over the matter, while security has been heightened along this stretch of the border, officials added.
