THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala coastal zone management authority (KCZMA) has filed a petition before the   challenging a   verdict that ruled against the demolition of DLF’s apartment complex, Riverside, located on the banks of Chilavannoor backwaters. The high court had asked the builder to pay a fine of Rs 1 crore for encroaching upon the water body.

 The petitioner, KCZMA is a statutory body constituted under the Environment [Protection] Act, 1986. It is a 12-member authority, chaired by state science and technology department principal secretary and Kerala state council for science, technology and environment (KSCSTE) member secretary as the authority’s member secretary.
 
 “We have filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the high court verdict as it is a major violation of CRZ norms and has to be demolished,” said a   member.
 
 Vipin Nair, who filed the petition for KSCZMA in the Supreme Court on Saturday said: “These serious lapses fraught with enormous collateral ecological damages cannot and should not ever be allowed to be regularised.” The Supreme Court hearing on the petition is expected in ten days, he said.
 
 Through the petition, KCZMA conteds that reclamation of water body is a prohibited activity as per the provisions of CRZ notifications of 1991 and 2011. This amounts to blatant violation of provisions of CRZ notification, it is alleged.
 
 Though the high court division bench on December 21, 2016 approved the findings of a single bench that the builder had encroached upon backwaters, they said considering the existing circumstances, the building need not be pulled down. Instead, the court had allowed DLF to regularize the building by paying a fine of Rs1 crore.
 
 A three-member committee of KSCZMA constituted in 2014 with Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean studies (KUFOS) vice-chancellor A Ramachandran, Prof K Padmakumar and KSCSTE principal scientific officer   had submitted a report after examining the changes in the land form after reclamation of the Chilavannoor backwaters which is part of Vembanad lake in Kochi. Since 1996, the pattern of land form change was examined and it was clear that DLF had constructed its luxury flats after reclaiming 90 % of the water body and its bank in a total area of 5.16 acres, KSCZMA members alleged.
 
