THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOZHIKODE: The   which got stranded in   was finally given permission to be   after   intervened in the issue. 

 The repatriation of Prakash Damodaran's body got delayed after Karipur airport officials issued a circular insisting on 48-hour advance intimation and prior approval for arrival of mortal remains.
 
 The chief minister wrote to the Centre against the circular issued by the health officer of Karipur airport which had invoked severe criticism from various quarters. Subsequently, the deputy director general of Union health and family welfare department communicated with the health officer at the Karipur airport and urged him to take necessary steps for the immediate repatriation of the body.
 
 The body will be brought in an   Express flight from Dammam, which will reach Karipur airport by 9.30am on Monday. 
 
 The chief minister, in his letter to the Union civil aviation minister, said that the circular would spell trouble for expats. It was not practical for the expats to submit documents to airport authorities 48 hours before they bring a dead body. The order must be immediately withdrawn, he said. 
 
 As expatriate organizations too hit out against the circular, Karipur airport authorities clarified that the guideline was not new. The airport health officer on Sunday said that the circular had been in force as part of the Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954 and International Health Regulations 2005. 
 
 Health officer Dr Jalaludheen had last month issued the circular to various airlines saying that four certificates - death certificate, embalming certificate, no objection certificate (NOC) from Indian high commission of the concerned country and cancelled copy of the passport of the deceased - should be provided 48 hours before the arrival of mortal remains, either by online or in person at the Airport Health Office (APHO).
 
 Expatriate organizations which raised their concerns said it would lead to additional delay of 2-3 days in repatriating the bodies.
 
 "Karipur airport didn't have an APHO till recently and when we set up the health office we just informed the airlines about the norms," Jalaludheen said.
 
 He added that the intention behind asking for prior approval from concerned health officer was to ensure that infectious cases, especially with regard to ebola, plague and yellow fever deaths, do not enter the country.
 
 "People are getting needlessly panicked on seeing the 48- hour clause. But I can assure that the repatriation would not be delayed on its account. We will process the request for NOC as soon as we get it. What we meant was that we should know the cause of death at least 48 hours in advance," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, director of Karipur airport has convened a meeting of all airlines, Air Customs, and Bureau of Immigration along with officials of the Airport Health Office (APHO) at 3pm on Monday to 'obtain clarity and better understanding of the GOI orders'.
 
 "Till that time the earlier system for bringing the mortal remains will be in force, so as not to cause inconvenience to anyone," the director said.
 
 The expat organizations are planning to legally challenge the circular.
 
 "We will move a petition in the high court to stay the circular. The draft of the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules 2015 has omitted the need for 48 hour prior intimation. Also the circular is in violation of Article 21 of Constitution," prominent lawyer Haris Beeran said.
 
 
