KOLHAPUR: The   has taken an initiative to start a 'zero  ' project on Sunday. The step has been taken to manage the plastic waste generated in urban localities with great efficiency. 

 As per the plan, the project will be initially implemented in two wards - Ruikar colony and Kasba Bawada area - on a pilot basis for a few months. If the authorities get some positive results from the project, they will extend the project across the city. 
 
 The project, a joint initiative with Rotary club, involves collection and shredding of plastic waste generated in these two wards. The civic body has also identified a collection centre close to the sewage treatment plant at Kasba Bawada, which will be soon put into use.
 
 In a general body meeting of the   two months ago, the corporators demanded complete ban on use of the plastic in the city. However, the authorities have found that use of plastic can only be minimised. The civic authorities claim that if the pilot project proves to be successful then they can achieve the 'zero-plastic' objective soon.
 
 Speaking about the initiative, mayor Hasina Faras said, "We have decided to impose a ban on   on the upcoming Independence Day. Over one tonne plastic is generated in the city every day and poor collection system leads to difficulties such as processing the plastic as it gets mixed with the garbage. The citizens must ensure that plastic waste is segregated properly so that the efforts required to separate plastic and garbage can be minimised."
 
 Secretary of the Rotary club   said, " Along with the civic body, the club members have also decided to contribute to this project to make the city free from plastic waste."
 
 "We are going to procure the machineries to shred the plastic waste that can be sold to the recyclers later. For now, two cycles will be go door-to-door to collect waste from these two wards. Based on the initial results of the project, the KMC will formulate a plan to increase the scope of the project and get more people involved in it," he added.
 
