

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 These were scenes the central Kolkata witnessed on Tuesday as   supporters armed with the   and bricks attacked the   on   C R Avenue on Tuesday evening.
 
 For most of the motorists, who frequent College Street and its nearby areas, Muralidhar Sen Lane is the “parking street” where more than 100 cars are parked on a 100-metre stretch and people look for a parking place here everyday. The stretch also has at least ten residential buildings, more than 15 offices, a few manufacturing units, a garage and at least four tea shacks.
 
 As the   office was attacked by alleged Trinamool supporters and several cars were damaged, there was complete chaos in the area on Tuesday evening. Shopowners downed shutters, residents fled home, tea stalls closed business and car owners scurried to take their vehicles out of the place.
 
 “The windscreen of a car parked in front of my establishment was smashed. I ran out and found there were men throwing bricks at the adjacent BJP office. I did not waste time and downed the shutter,” said the owner of a diagnostic centre.
 
 Susmita Mitra, who lives two houses away from the BJP office, said she was returning home with her three-year-old son when she was caught in the brick battle. “I didn’t know what to do. I picked up my son and ran inside one of the houses that had its door ajar and locked it. I called my mother-in-law to inform her about the incident and also called my son, who had gone to tuitions, not to return home any time soon. I returned home after almost an hour,” she recalled.
 
 As Trinamool supporters blocked the lane from both ends, residents spent a major part of the evening inside their houses and occasionally looked through the window grilles.
 
 Those who had their cars parked on the road had a tough time as police had barricaded the road from the Hindu hostel end and there were more than 500 Trinamool supporters on the other side of the barricade. “I tried to take my car out but the police did not let me in. They said I will have to wait till the demonstrators move away,” said Ramesh Prasad, who drives a Hyundai Xcent.
 
 Things turned uglier when around 7.30pm, the demonstrators broke the barricade and climbed the roof of the parked cars. Some jumped from one car to another, while others damaged the vehicles’ windscreens by throwing flower pots and bricks at them. Police had to resort to a lathicharge. The situation could be brought under control only after 8.30pm when central forces rushed in and senior Trinamool leaders managed to persuade the demonstrators to lift the dharna.
 
 
