Nagpur: In spite of passage of over three weeks, there is no word on the inquiry against city power franchisee SNDL. Nor have the remedial measures announced by energy minister Chandrashekhar   in legislative council materialized so far.

 The minister had announced a third party inquiry against the franchisee in the council on December 18. A GR in this regard was expected soon but there is no development on that front. A source in energy ministry confirmed the minister was yet to issue orders regarding the probe.
 
 The issue of SNDL’s unsatisfactory consumer services was raised by BJP MLCs Anil Sole and Girish Vyas. TOI tried to contact Bawankule several times on Thursday but was unsuccessful. There was no response to a text message send to him in this regard, on his mobile. Sole told TOI he was yet to receive any communication regarding the inquiry. “I am eagerly awaiting it,” he said.
 
 Bawankule had announced a committee would be formed for evaluating the consumer services provided by SNDL and Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), or some other agency, would be roped in for this purpose. If required, Sole and MLC Jogendra Kawade would be included in the committee. The minister had at that time ruled out termination of contract of the franchisee without an inquiry.
 
 It is not only the probe that is stuck due to the minister’s apathy. He had announced all SNDL meters would be tested by the state government at its own cost.
 
 He had admitted there were large scale complaints of fast meters but claimed there was no provision in the distribution franchisee agreement (DFA) for checking SNDL's electricity meters. Bawankule had also announced that a panel of 13 engineers of MSEDCL will be formed to hear consumer complaints against SNDL.
 
 Bawankule had set up a fact finding committee in 2015 against SNDL. The committee submitted a voluminous report, on the basis of which MSEDCL had issued a show cause notice to the franchisee. While some remedial measures were taken by SNDL, the complaints against consumer service continued.
 
 
