Nagpur: Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader   arrived here from Mumbai and met local party leaders and functionaries in a series of meetings throughout the day. He has been deputed as observer by the party to sort out issues related to preparing a list of probable candidates for the NMC polls. The final list will be cleared by the state leadership.

 Dalwai is set to continue the exercise on Sunday and arrive at a broad consensus on names of the candidates to be given party tickets from each of the 38 prabhags in the city for the February 21 NMC elections before winding up his visit. “It's a do-or-die situation After the drubbing in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, party workers and leaders have realized gravity of the situation and are geared up to revive the party to its glory days,” Dalwai told TOI on sidelines of the meetings. More importantly, he said the B-Form given to be handed over to the nominee will have the nominee’s name printed on it. (No blank forms will be floating around).
 
 On Saturday Dalwai had meetings with city Congress functionaries, Mahila Congress office-bearers and prominent leaders of Nagpur West, East and Central assembly constituencies. Interestingly, faction leaders Satish Chaturvedi and Nitin Raut were yet to meet Dalwai till filing of this report. But city president Vikas Thakre and Praful Gudadhe-Patil who are both seeking ticket from same prabhag (no. 38) presented their claims before the observer.
 
 Hussain’s visit was necessitated by the never-ending factionalism and group wars in the party which seem to reach a peak before any election. The corporation elections are seen a fight for party’s prestige. Once the Congress stronghold, the party has lost the city civic body to the BJP in two consecutive terms. 
 
 Ex-minister Anees Ahmed who has been staying from local party activities for some time, met Dalwai when candidates lists of prabhags in Nagpur Central were discussed. He was accompanied by Atul Kotecha and other followers who only insisted on giving tickets to loyal party workers. Ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar was present at Devadia Bhavan for most of the day during Dalwai’s visit.
 
 
