PUNE: For a plot of land located close to an important thoroughfare, the Kirkee war cemetery is eerily quiet, even as rush hour traffic passes by.

 The cemetery is hard to miss on the way to Vishrantwadi through Mula Road, a few hundred metres into   limits. The cemetery was established in 1952 by the  .
 
 On entering the cemetery, a Biblical quote Their name liveth for evermore is seen sculpted on a stone structure.
 
 Behind the structure, stand a number of flattened pillars, with stone benches interspersed. All, except one, of these pillars bear the dates 1914-1918.
 
 “These pillars are a memorial to about 1,800 soldiers killed in the Indian subcontinent during the First World War. Their graves are elsewhere, but the names remain,” said complex manager  .
 
 The pillars carry the name of the regiments that suffered immense losses in the war, in which 70,000 Indians lost their lives, fighting for a colonial power.
 
 Young men, from all branches of the armed forces, breathed their last in lands thousands of miles from their home. Their remains lie on both sides of canopied paths.
 
 One of these pillars bears the dates 1939-1945. On this pillar, some names and their regiments are inscribed, and the names are predominantly African in origin. As it turns out, this is a memorial to about 200 African soldiers, largely from the   (present-day Ghana) or the Nigerian units, who died in the subcontinent during the Second World War. In most cases, the graves have gone untraced.
 
 As far as marked graves are concerned, 1,670 graves remain here. In 1962, it received more coffins from the   in Mumbai.
 
 Some of the cenotaphs carry eulogies written in Scottish and Welsh, in memory of personnel of that nationality.
 
 The graves had all possible ranks in the armed forces. From a private to a colonel, from artillery unit men to members of the medical corps a war spares none.
 
 The British Indian Army’s size, at its peak, was a staggering 25 lakh, with 80,000 laying their lives in wars. 152 of them found a place in these environs.
 
