MUMBAI: In a first, the   (SIT) which was formed to probe the  , unearthed last year, has decided to itself take samples of roads where the   detected shoddy repairs.

 TOI has learned the SIT has sought help from the   ( ), which would take samples of the 34 roads and check if they were repaired as per specifications. The roads were sampled in the first phase of the BMC probe and irregularities found, following which an FIR was lodged against six contractors and two third-party auditors.
 
 A top civic official confirmed the SIT has sought permission to dig up the 34 roads.“Samples are likely to be collected from next week,“ the official said. While it raises doubts whether police were unconvinced by the BMC report, a civic official said the SIT has informed them it is part of their procedure. “We have prepared a watertight report but if police still feel it important to take samples then we have assured them of our full cooperation,“ added an official.
 
 Of the 34 roads inspected by the civic team was Dr  , where work done in patches cost Rs 107.97 crore. The report revealed that irregularities in all roads varied between 38-100%.
 
 Activists welcomed the new police inquiry but added it should not enable any guilty contractor to escape punishment. “ A commissioner level inquiry is expected to be foolproof and it's unlikely the police are going to get anything different. If they want to take samples to be convinced and make their case stronger, there is no harm. However, BMC engineers too should be present and samples must be taken from the same spots as the BMC,“ said King Circle-based activist Nikhil Desai.
 
 Following the first phase of investigation which covered 34 roads, the BMC later undertook inspection of 200 roads where again shoddy work done came to light. However, no police case has been filed and only showcause notices sent to 11 contractors found guilty in the second phase of the enquiry .The civic body had filed police cases against six of these firms when they were found to have defrauded the corporation after the first phase of the road inquiry was completed.
 
