Oh! They were in a relationship for more than a year. Then how can she turn around and file a complaint that the guy sexually exploited her? Didn’t she enjoy it when they had physical relationship?” — In the wake of the string of recent sexual harassment complaints, these questions have been dominating discussions around coffee tables and near water coolers. After an MLA and a senior editor of a news channel were arrested on the complaints filed by women who knew them closely for long periods, people have been heard arguing that the line separating rape and consensual sex is thin. Dating itself being a western import, doesn’t both men as well as women have the right to wriggle out of a relationship when it is no longer working?

 Kochi Times tries to get some insights on this knotty socio-legal issue by talking to some opinion makers:
 
 
 
 It has been clearly laid down under the amendment added in   in 2013, in section 2, as to what qualifies as rape. It says that a man commits rape if he has sexual relationship with a woman incapable of giving consent, if the accused is in a position of control or dominance over a woman, and if the woman suffers from mental or physical disability. Consensual sex can also be termed rape based on the fourth clause if both know that they are having sexual relationship believing that they will be lawfully married anytime soon.
 
 An impression may be created that it is unjust to men but law has been made with a noble intention. India has a complex culture and we are mostly discussing only with respect to the urban population while in rural India, there are women who are being cheated and abused by men by giving false promises. A lot of injustice is happening towards them, and their rights need to be protected. The only way to avoid misuse of law is to deal with it on a case by case basis and by forming a committee like how Supreme Court suggested on Thursday for anti-dowry harassment law. It suggests family welfare committees be set up in every district and arrests be made only after a report from them; the committee should include retired advocates, doctors, civil society members and judges. 
 
 
 
 
 Only a small section of women in our society who harbour feministic ideology can actually think that having sexual relationships is not exploitation. In most of the cases, what we have is pure exploitation and we should appreciate those women who are reacting when they realise that they are being exploited. It will take more than half a century for women to become aware that they are not mere objects but human beings with a heart and soul and the right to enjoy every pleasure. We were never given the right to tell others not to touch our body, but as a result of the constant fights, the schools are training kids to identify what is good touch and bad touch and how to respond to the latter. Things will change eventually. And in the accused media boss’ case, I have read the girl’s statement. It is easy to ask, “Isn’t she a   and why did she tolerate it for so long?” Women here do not even dare to react to a minor groping in a bus or a street and men have been taking advantage of this. Her statement suggests she was trapped. I am sure, eventually things will change and any marriage or relationship will be seen as an agreement between two individuals than between a superior and inferior gender.
 
 
 
 
 
 I recall the late feminist writer Andreas Dwarkin’s book ‘Intercourse’ which I read 30 years ago. The argument she put forward was that the act of intercourse per se, is an act of violence against the woman. The reason being that the act involves the intrusion of the male organ into the female body and not the other way around. And, this cannot be solved biologically. Therefore, even at times when it is considered the utmost act of loving, intercourse retains a minimum amount of violence. A conscious male would, therefore, let the woman decide how to go about it. Consensual sex happens when there is no persuasion of any kind from any side, legally, between two consenting adults. Yet, the minimum violence that is part of the sexual act cannot be ruled out. If sex happens by promising a future together, it is not much of a valid argument. But, when it happens also as a result of the power equation between the two, like boss and the subordinate, it cannot be consensual sex. There is an element of fear in it. So, the basic thing is not whether someone promised something, which is a thin claim, but whether there is a power equation that disables the woman's defences. 
 
 
 
 
 
 There is a conflict of ideas in our society regarding women’s rights and justice. I look at it in a very positive way as when things settle down, women would be in a state where they can assert their rights and men aware of what is abuse and harassment would learn to respect their counterparts. Gender disparity and atrocities against women will vanish eventually. In the cases of the accused media boss and MLA, we can see them exploiting the weaknesses of women. The media professional was suffering from depression. Her boss would have been very much aware of her vulnerability and illness. He utilised it very well. It is not different in the MLA’s case either. Forget about the progressive women who have succeeded in looking at sex as just sex. There are many women who take what men say literally. And there is a majority of women who even do not have the courage to say “stop,” “don’t,” or “no” as they have been trained to be gentle, submissive and loyal. Even sex in a marriage without the consent of the wife is also a crime, so when someone offers to marry and later refuse, it is an offence. And for those who ask if it is injustice, all I have to say is as long as the existing law says that any of the above can be termed rape, the offenders should be punished.
 
 
 
 
 
