NEW DELHI: The menace of roadside   is so widespread in the capital that a no-tolerance zone elsewhere begs the question whether it is a policy to tolerate it elsewhere. One such stretch is Lala Lajpat Rai Marg in south Delhi, stretching from the   crossing to Josip Broz Tito Marg near  . Here, the menace has assumed alarming proportions with three and even four rows of cars occupying road space and forcing traffic to  . Medical institutions, schools, offices, shops, a Metro station and even roadside mechanics use the road for parking the cars of their clients with virtually no fear of the authorities. This reduces the busy corridor, a prominent traffic artery of the city, to a nightmare for commuters.

 Sunil Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s central zone, says they are not responsible for the mess. “We only confiscate abandoned vehicles. It is the job of the traffic police to act against other vehicles encroaching on the roads.” PWD, which owns the road, hardly ever takes any action. A senior traffic police officer, too, passes the buck. “The traffic police regularly carries out drives against illegal parking but the civic bodies should also take action,” he says.
 
 With little threat of punitive action, the establishments along the road have nonchalantly take over half and even more of the road space. Pedestrians have no space to walk anyway because the footpaths are parking lots too. A security guard at a hospital tells a visitor to park his car by the roadside and not to worry about the cops. “Our visitors leave their cars in an internal road next to the hospital. But that is full now, so you can use the main road,” he says. Cabbie Sunil Upadhyay is only too willing to comply. A security guard of a hotel pleads that people simply don’t listen. “We get abused. They tell us it is none of our business.”
 
 A 100-metre length of the road is home to roadside mechanics attached to car spare parts and tyre shops. This area is particularly harrowing for commuters. “I am not repairing this car, it only needs a new battery,” admitted a car mechanic pointing at an illegally parked vehicle. At this point, there is barely space for two cars to pass. A school nearby has no qualms about occupying four to five lanes for parking cars of parents, buses and vans. 
 
 The situation is no better on the other side. The approach to the bus stop at Lady Shri Ram College is so badly encroached upon that passengers are often forced to board DTC buses in the middle of the road. “When it is raining, we have to stand in the middle of the road with our umbrellas to get into a bus,” grumbled Ankit Anand, who regularly uses public transport.
 
 It’s the same story in the reverse direction. E-rickshaws and autos reduce the road space near the Kailash Colony Metro station. The patrons of a newly-opened departmental store are the most brazen, occupying even four lanes at times. Only a sustained drive and regular action can deter the law-breakers but there seems to be little resolve. 
 
 
