NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish   said on Friday that the   asking the   to   the Union government on whether students availing of the   loan guarantee scheme can study in government colleges outside Delhi means they will be deprived of the facility for two to three years. He added that students should not be made to suffer due to political rivalry between the Delhi and Union governments.

 Reacting on the matter chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted “LG Sir, its our duty to ensure best quality education to poor kids also. They too deserve it. Education Loan wud ensure that.”
 
 The Delhi government in 2015 initiated a higher education loan guarantee scheme for city students where students from economically disadvantaged sections are given loans for higher education and the government is the guarantor. The Delhi government revamped the scheme, allowing Delhi students to take loans to study in any government college outside of Delhi as well. But Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asked the government to consult the government of India on the matter.
 
 In a media briefing on Friday, Sisodia said: “In 2015, we proposed that any student of Delhi wanting to pursue higher education or skill development, but has financial constraints, should not miss out on education. For that the government stood guarantee for the loan. Last year, many availed of the loan. The then LG, too, had returned the file last year with some queries which were resolved.”
 
 The minister said this year the government revamped the scheme and proposed that in case a Delhi student wants to study in government colleges outside Delhi, they, too, would be eligible for the loan. “But the LG has stopped the scheme and said the Delhi government should consult the government of India,” said Sisodia.
 
 Claiming that by being asked to consult the Union government, students will not be able to get the loan under this scheme for now, Sisodia said: “This is Delhi government, which from Delhi taxpayers money wants to take the guarantee of education of Delhi students. We have confidence in Delhi’s students that after completion of their education they will repay the loans. But being asked to seek the opinion of the government of India means students for now won’t get the loan under this scheme.”
 
 “It’s fine to have political rivalry with us, but why are they against the students of Delhi? If we don’t give loans, this will hamper the future of thousands of students who will not be able to pursue their studies,” Sisodia added.
 
 Stating that they will approach the LG on the matter, Sisodia said: “We appeal to the LG, that if you have any issues with us, deal with us, but don’t trouble the students. In a democracy, if people’s money is being used to take a guarantee for their children one should cooperate. Only then will Shikshit Bharat Samarth Bharat happen.”
 
