Mohali: The cases of vehicles plying on wrong side of   roads continue as Mohali traffic police have failed to issue challans to such violators. On the other hand Mohali police and residents are of the view that GMADA is to be blamed for designing faults in the construction of the   medians.

 Such violations could be seen on the Jail Road near the Nature Park, where people were seen turning towards the wrong side of the road to take a U-turn from the gap in the   to join the road leading to Sector 52, Chandigarh. Such violators approach from Dolphin crossing near YPS and then proceed to take a U-turn by travelling 200 meters towards the wrong side on the road. Another such spot is driving from the wrong side of the divider while approaching the traffic signal at Ambawala crossing at Phase VII and VIII dividing.
 
 Amrik Singh, a resident of Phase IX said, “Driving on the wrong side on the Jail Road behind PSEB building poses major threat to life. The road has become very busy and in spite of that people have been following the wrong directions to avoid covering long distance. There are no traffic cops to check such violators.”
 
 Another resident held GMADA responsible for the gaps in medians. Karambir Singh, a resident of Phase IX, who travels to Chandigard everyday said, “Gap has been made in the median by GMADA outside the entry gate to Nature Park. This gap is just 200 meters away from the turning on the road for those approaching from Dolphin crossing side. So people instead of turning towards left turn towards wrong side getting prone to accidents. GMADA must close such gaps.”
 
 When contacted, senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “It is not possible to deploy a traffic constable at every such point in the city. But still I will direct traffic DSP to check such violators. GMADA is somewhere also to be blamed for leaving such gaps in medians which attract public to follow shorter routes.”
 
 GMADA officials, when contacted, said they will get such points checked and take action if required. 
 
 
