When outsiders were inducted into   to set interest rates, it was seen as an encroachment into RBI’s territory and undermining of the governor. After four meetings, the MPC is gaining currency for independence, albeit slowly, writes MC Govardhana Rangan:
 
  When the fledgling Monetary Policy Committee came up with a “unanimous” decision for the fourth straight meeting last month to pause on the interest rate, almost all hopes of it living up to expectations of vibrant debate and dissentions were buried. Come April 20, the minutes of the meeting came as a bolt from the blue. When the MPC decided to hold rates, Michael Patra, an executive director at the   and a member of the MPC, suggested something that the governor or the deputy governor did not — ‘a pre-emptive 25 basis points increase in the policy rate’ now to avoid falling behind the curve.
  
  The six-member committee comprising three from the  , and three external members — an experiment to take Indian monetary policy setting to global standards — is getting wings. As the norm is in financial markets, the committee is also throwing up a lot of surprises.
  
  Setting up of the committee was criticised as interfering in RBI’s autonomy and undermining of the role of the governor. The argument was that the government’s nominees would drive the agenda of the ruling party and make life easier for businesses with cheap credit. Seven months later, the reality is different.
  
  “The government nominees have strong academic credentials and so far have been both thorough and independent in their views as reflected in the MPC minutes,” says Jahangir Aziz, economist at JP Morgan.
  
  
 
  
  During a period where it was not just the  , but factors like   played an important role, the members have been going beyond the factors that influence prices.
  
  “With the hindsight of the last seven months, the assessment is that the MPC members have asserted their independence,” says Sonal Varma, economist at Nomura Securities. “The latest round of minutes (April policy) do suggest that there is a growing divergence in views between various MPC members.”
  
  Although all MPC actions may not have turned out the way predicted by economists in financial markets, the members have shown independence in thinking. Yes, there were bouncers, but the blame also lies with the market for failing to tune up to new realities.
  
  At the very first meeting in October, it reduced policy interest rates when inflation expectations were rising and consensus was for a pause. Poor communication led to misinterpretation of the pillar of MPC, inflation targeting.
  
  “It is in the context of unanticipated shocks to the future evolution of inflation that the rationale of setting India’s inflation target at 4% with a tolerance band of +/- 2% can be appreciated,” said RBI governor Urjit Patel.
  
  
 
  
  This was misinterpreted as the tolerable limit for MPC is 6% rather than its mandate to achieve 4%, leaving scope for growth lobbyists to hijack the agenda. But it deserved a benefit of doubt being the first experiment.
  
  Financial markets reacted as if the world was coming to an end when the government demonetised high-value currency notes. But the MPC not only avoided falling to the trap of “offsetting” the loss to the economy with lower interest rates, but stood firm to wait and see how events unfolded.
  
  “We should remember that even though RBI’s projection on inflation was higher than the actual in 1Q17. Their expectations of a short-lived dip due to demonetisation played out,” says Radhika Rao, economist at DBS in Singapore.
  
  When talking heads across the spectrum pontificated how the economy would collapse and why the MPC should cut rates to keep the economy humming, the surge in liquidity automatically led to lower lending rates. Domonetisation did what even many policy rate cuts by the RBI could not do — bring down market rates.
  
  SBI cut its Marginal Cost Lending Rate 90 basis points, and the yield on one-year paper fell to as low as 5.96% in November, from 6.46% before demonetisation. The central bank had to struggle with ad hoc measures including raising the  , the proportion of deposits banks should keep with the RBI.
  
  The MPC is turning out to be more conservative and anti-inflationary than what the RBI would have been. It is seen prematurely shifting its stance in the interest rate cycle. In February, it shifted the stance to neutral from accommodative sending shock among investors.
  
  “The shift to a neutral stance was consistent with the Inflation Targeting framework,” says JP Morgan’s Azis. “Current conditions matter far less than forecast of future conditions. In their assessment, over the next 12-18 months, output gap would close and with that pressures on core inflation would arise that would make it difficult to reach the inflation target of 4% in the next 12-18 months with an accommodative stance and so the shift to a neutral position.”
  
  RBI’s Patra saying, “a preemptive 25 basis points increase in the policy rate now will point us better at the target of 4% to which the Committee has committed explicitly” gives a peep into the debate that goes on inside the MPC.
  
  “The statement on a preemptive hike was a surprise, but very broadly, the minutes suggest that most MPC members see the recent inflation moderation as transitory; they are very focused on the 4% target; they are worried about factors such as the HRA hike, GST, closing output gap, higher perishable food inflation post-remonetisation affecting headline inflation and inflationary expectations,” says Varma of Nomura.
  
  But the question is why Patra voted for a pause despite raising fears of being left behind in the battle to tame prices. Is it the need to project a sort of consensus publicly even after expressing contrary views in the discussions?
  
  “I think we are splitting hair in this case,” says JP Morgan’s Aziz. “What is important is that different voices are being heard in the MPC.”
  
  The MPC is evolving in stature as it debates more and matures over a period of time. It may be taking correct decisions that are appropriate for the economy. But it also has the responsibility of communicating and educating the financial markets on its role and how it comes to conclusions, especially on how it forecasts inflation where there seems to be a disconnect between it and the markets. Under inflation targeting, it is what the inflation is likely to be 12 to 18 months down the line and not what it was last month, or the quarter.
  
  Between the MPC and the market, it is the investors who seem to be lacking on what the current set-up means. Those who were used to a system since independence may have to put in more efforts to understand what the MPC’s mandate is and how it would work to achieve it.
  
  “I think market is yet to get used to an IT framework and still believes that this is the same as balancing growth with inflation objectives as we did in the past,” says JPMorgan’s Aziz. “Inflation Targeting is very different.” 
