NAGPUR: Having upset Turkmenistan International Master (IM) and split point with a Grandmaster from Moldova helped city's 11-year-old Fide Master (FM)   finish the day-long blitz event at the 19th Dubai Open Chess Tournament on a high. 

 The shortest format of the 64 squares, a nine-round international tournament, was played at the  .
 
 Starting as a 52nd seed, Raunak surprised five higher-ranked rivals and held a GM to collect 5.5 points. He finished at the 30th position. Raunak gained 51 Elo points to stretch his overall blitz rating to 1818.
 
 Raunak made most of his opening advantage with the white pieces to outclass Finland's   and kick start his campaign with a win on the 52nd board. In the following round, despite playing with the black pieces, Raunak surprised IM Grigoryan Karen from Turkmenistan and jumped to the 13th spot with full two points. At 2307, the Turkmenistan IM had 540 more Elo points than Raunak.
 
 In the third round, the 11-year-old utilized his opening advantage well and made some tactical moves to force higher-ranked GM Iordachescu Viorel from Moldova to sign the peace treaty. In the following rounds, however, Raunak found GMs Mareco Sandro and   from Argentina and Egypt too tough to handle and went down fighting in the fourth and fifth round respectively.
 
 Fighting back from successive defeats, Raunak, playing with whites, prevailed over higher-ranked Turkmenistan WFM Ovezdurdiyeva Jemal in the sixth round. On the following board, Raunak failed to defend with the black bits against compatriot Harikrishnan AR but made his presence felt in the 8th and penultimate round. Making most of his opening advantage with the white pieces, Raunak got the better of   to garner full points.
 
 In the 9th and final round Raunak was up against higher ranked Sameir Ramez of Egypt. Despite playing with the black pieces, the city FM shocked Sameir, who has 284 more Elo points. With this win in the final round, Raunak collected 5.5 points from the nine-round meet to end his campaign on a positive note.
 
 Raunak, who is city's youngest FM, was the only Vidarbha player to take part in the blitz event.
 
