VARANASI: The ambitious   still figures prominently on its homepage but   seems to be looking at ways to knock it off its own list. 

 The most obvious reason behind the authority's inability to retain the project is want of funds: farmers affected by the acquisition of their land for this project are demanding compensation as per the new land acquisition laws. To meet this demand, VDA needs Rs 855 crore whereas at the time of its launch in 2000, the land acquisition department had estimated its cost at about Rs 99.3 crore. 
 
 VDA chairman and divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn and vice chairman Pulkit Khare have made it clear that VDA has no funds to fulfil the demands so it would send proposals to the state government. The first proposal is to provide funds, including of Rs 855 crore, for land acquisition to VDA. Other proposals include handing over this project to some other ministry to develop it as a transport area as an industrial estate or a special economic zone with transport area. The commissioner said the VDA had started preparing these proposals with consultants in order to complete them within a fortnight and send it to the state government for action. The Transport Nagar project was planned in 2000 when the Bhartiya Janata Party-led   government had started initiating measures to minimize the traffic load from the roads of city of congestion. As part of their plans, then NDA government had sanctioned   and VDA was assigned to develop Transport Nagar project. The Ring Road project started after a few hiccups. 
 
 However, the Transport Nagar project hasn't made much progress even after 17 years of its launch. VDA records show that the process for acquiring 86.219 hectares of land was started in 2000 with the issuance of a notification by the land acquisition department. After final notification in 2001, the possession of the acquired land was given to VDA on paper. 
 
 In a 2013 VDA meeting, of the 82.159 hectare required, the authority had shown possession of 45 hectare land. A loan of Rs 95 crore was also sought from HUDCO for developing the project out of which Rs 28 crore was allocated. However, the project has been in limbo since farmers started demanding compensation as per the new land acquisition laws.
 
 
