NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started offering 50% concession in city bus fare to senior citizens from Monday as a part to commemorate Gandhi Jayanti. Citizens of and above 60 years are eligible for availing the concession.

 Mayor Nanda Jichkar and chairman of city transport committee Bunty   launched the special facility for senior citizens. “I travelled in some city buses and interacted with senior citizens to check whether they were getting the concession or not. More and more senior citizens should avail the facility by using the city bus service,” Kukde said.
 
 The concession will be available only in Red buses — standard, medium and mini — and will not be offered in ethanol-run Green buses. The concession is not facilitated in Green buses as it is a premium service.
 
 It is for the first time that the concession has been introduced for senior citizens in city bus service’s history of 10 years. 
 
 Such concession is being offered in the buses run by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). However, the age limit to avail the same is 65 years and above. The NMC has made available the facility to citizens who are 60 and above so as to accommodate more people.
 
 Till now, the NMC used to give concession (66.66%) to students in city bus service. Concession is also available for freedom fighters but not a single person has registered with the NMC to avail the facility.
 
 Minimum fare of Red buses is Rs 8 and maximum Rs 30. With the 50% concession, the NMC is expecting more number of senior citizens travelling by city buses.
 
 As on date, 323 buses are being operated by the NMC. Plan is to increase the fleet of city buses to 487 in next three months. The concession will be available in 432 buses excluding 55 Green buses.
 
 
 
 Jichkar and Kukde along with members and officials of city transport committee including city transport manager   also cleaned a city bus stop at   square as part of the Swachh Bharat Mission on Monday. Four teams have been formed to clean all 158 city bus stops in coming days.
 
 
