Between 6 and 12, few children think of observing the world through the camera lens.

 Sanya Jain, a 12-year-old from   is one of those few children. Winner of the   Kids photography contest in the wild vacation category, Sanya sees beauty in what most people would dismiss as mundane. No wonder she stood out among the 46,000 entries received in the competition, becoming the only contestant from India to win the prestigious contest.
 
 The prize is a five-day, four night trip to Washington DC, with a special tour to National Geographic headquarters. Apart from this, she has also won a tab worth Rs 8,000 and she will fly to USA in June or July.
 
 Sanya, a Class VII student of Army Public School, Ambala Cantonment, learnt to complement the eye with the lens early on. Her father, Lt Col   was fond of photography. At nine, Sanya knew photography would be an integral part of her life as well.
 
 “I have an almost umbilical connection with the camera. Since my father is in the Army, we travel a lot and that gives me a wealth of opportunity to click pictures,“ said Sanya.
 
 She took her awardwinning picture on a vacation with her family ­ more as a spontaneous reaction to a beautiful scene than a deliberate effort. “I remember I was 10 years old when I took this photograph. I had gone to Jaisalmer for the Desert festival with my family in 2015. There, I saw a group of camels and took a picture,“ she said.
 
 Sanya has not undergone professional training in photography but uses a professional camera,   550D. She depends on her inherent sense of aesthetics and her father's tips to capture beautiful moments. “My father taught me the basics and I just click a picture whenever I see something different or exceptional. My father is an inspiration,“ she said.
 
 While she was clear about her passion for photography, she was overwhelmed at being honoured on the international level.
 
 “Honestly, I was not sure I would win but I did nurture the hope. I have done the country proud by winning the award and I shall stick to my passion,“ she asserted.
 
 Although Sanya is hooked to nature photography, she hopes to diversify with time, even going to Paris to explore the subject.
 
 Already, the city of dreams beckons Sanya.
 
