HYDERABAD: A hotel owner and his son were arrested on Saturday for encroaching upon 889 square yards of a public park, worth` `10 crore, at   (SEWA) on Road No. 9,  .
Central Crime Station (CCS) arrested M Ravindernath, 64, owner of   and Loading, and his son M Raghavendernath, and sent them to judicial remand for usurping the public space.
 
 With an eye on the prime property , Ravindernath fabricated a will, claiming to have been executed by his father before his death and bequeathed the property to him, got the property registered on the names of his kin, obtained building permission by submitting fake documents, built temporary structures and even started preparations to raise a building. SEWA members, in a complaint to CCS, claimed as per the layout, they allotted space for park and accordingly handed over the site to   ( ), which developed a park and left some open space admeasuring about 889 square yards for future needs.
 
 During investigation, police found Ravindernath had created a fake will as if it was executed by his father prior to his death in 1986.
 
 “In the will, Ravindernath mentioned a document number to prove that his father had acquired the property through a sale deed. When verified, the document number (29471982) was not related to the site (SEWA) at Jubilee Hills. In fact, it was related to a transaction concerning M Prabhakar Reddy and Suresh and pertaining to a parcel of land in Gudimalkapur,“ deputy commissioner of police (CCS) Avinash Mohanty said. The land document (29471982) pertains to a parcel of land in Gudimalkapur, where a layout is yet to be done. Using the document, he executed a gift settlement deed on January 1, 2017 in favour of his mother M. Laxmi Bai, wife M Aruna Bai, son M Raghavendernath, daughterinlaw M.Sumalatha and created a rectification deed, showing that the will deed dated October 12, 1976 was wrong.Later, he obtained permission from the GHMC by deceiving the authorities with fake documents and the civic officials granted building permission. Ironically , the GHMC officials were clueless about the encroachment of a public space, where he even started construction.
 
 “We cancelled permission and issued a show cause notice. He applied for permission in February . He submitted us fabricated documents, including a fake layout.When we sent his application for legal opinion and took time to issue the building permission, he put pressure on the concerned assistant city planner through a minister from the city and an MLA from an opposition party ,“ a top GHMC official said.
 
 In January , Ravindernath and his family members started chopping trees on the parcel of land and even put up temporary shelters for a watchman and other workers.
 
 The officials said when the SEWA residents first saw strangers carrying out construction activity on the public space, they raised objections, but he threatened them, claiming that it was his family property and it was in their possession since decades.The locals then alerted the sub-registrar office (SRO), Sheikpet, and GHMC by lodging a complaint. Similarly ,a complaint was also sent to CCS, who after making preliminary enquiry found prima facie evidence, and registered a case a month ago.
 
 After investigation, the two were arrested and remanded to judicial custody .
 
