Mumbai: There’s fresh trouble for the   family. The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Thursday filed an FIR against Pankaj and Sameer, son and nephew of jailed NCP leader  , for procuring a residential plot from Mhada in Oshiwara and illegally converting it into a commercial complex before selling it to a third party. 

 A total of 17 people have been named in the FIR, including controversial former bureaucrat   who was vice-president of Mhada when the irregularity occurred.
 
 All the accused have been booked for cheating, forgery, breach of trust, abetment and criminal conspiracy under the IPC and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. This is the third offence the ACB has registered against the ex-deputy CM’s family: the first one was in the Maharashtra Sadan scam and the second was related to construction of a library in Kalina. 
 
 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the income tax department had recently seized the Bhujbal family’s benami properties worth Rs 300 crore.
 
 ACB officials on Thursday also did a panchnama of the Oshiwara property and began recording statements of the private parties who are currently in possession of the plot. The ACB probe has revealed that according to records of the ministry of corporate affairs, Pankaj and Sameer Bhujbal were, between 1994 and 2009, directors of Bhavesh Builders Pvt Ltd, which constructed the structure on the plot and sold it to a third party, officials said. 
 
 According to the ACB, in 2002, 11 members of Tulsi co-operative housing society allegedly submitted bogus documents and got Mhada to allot them a plot of around 11,000 sq ft next to Oshiwara police station for construction of a residential building. “Immediately after getting the plot, the society, promoted by one Prashant Sawant, entered into an agreement with Bhavesh Builders Pvt Ltd for development of the plot,” an official said.
 
 When the building was constructed, it turned out to be commercial complex called Platinum Court, which was illegal, said the ACB official. The society members then sold the building to new buyers who were not linked to the registered society, though they were not supposed to sell/transfer it for at least ten years.
 
 “The plot was procured at nominal rates for residential purposes, but the members, in connivance with Mhada officials including Khobragade, aided and abetted the other accused in change of use of property from residential to commercial,” the official pointed out.
 
 Among the accused are Prashant Sawant, Munna Sayyed (society secretary), Ajit Wadunch, Tukaram Parkar, late Sanjay Paradkar (all members), Mhada city surveyors   and Shirish Shugarpure, then Mhada CEO Suresh Karande, architect Arvind Veling and chief architect Deepak Mandlekar (late).
 
 The complaint in this case was filed in 2013 by Anjali Damania of Aam Aadmi Party who had alleged that Sameer and Pankaj Bhujbal were linked to the scam through the construction firm Bhavesh Builders Pvt Ltd. “The commercial complex that is built on the plot is worth Rs. 200 crore and it is built on government land acquired at concessional rates for a housing society,” Damania alleged.
 
