NAGPUR: Representatives of NGOs in  , India and other Asian countries came together to talk about volunteering in development health care, education and agriculture sectors in the country under the Weltwaerts programme. The four-day Weltwaerts   Partner Conference was jointly organized by the Indo-German Cooperation ( ) and NGO Ecumenical Sangam at Rainbow Guesthouse, Civil Lines, on Monday.

 The Weltwaerts programme is an initiative of Germany’s ministry of economic development and cooperation which has a worldwide presence since 2007. President of IGC Jona Dohrmann said, “The programme concerns itself with supporting developmental work in developing nations. Volunteers from various German NGOs go to these countries and work at grass-roots level with local organizations.”
 
 Dohrmann informed that, in India, the German volunteers assist Indian NGOs in developing curriculum for schools and other educational institutes. In health care, they support the link between the government and people in rural areas and make medical facilities available.
 
 The health care system especially in the city has made significant progress. There is progress in the rural areas too, but much needs to be done, said Dohrmann. “There is sufficient infrastructure in terms of clinics and medicines but locals find it difficult to take advantage due to lack of awareness about the existing health delivery system of the government,” he said.
 
 Dohrmann informed that mayor Nanda Jichkar, who was present during the inauguration ceremony, offered to support the NGOs in their work. He said, “We are pleased to learn that the local administration is keen to joining us in the developmental work.”
 
 Regional mentor of IGC for   in the programme Gayathri Vatsalya said, “The conference serves as a platform for representatives from all partner NGOs to share their experiences working in the countries concerned.”
 
 Vatsalya’s responsibility as a mentor is to help German volunteers adapt to the environment here by assisting them in adjusting to Indian living conditions and acquainting them with local customs.
 
 Charlotta Saul, who represented the German ministry in the conference, said, “The subject of development in growing nations is important to the German government and India is a major partner. Weltwaerts is a learning opportunity for us and we are focusing on getting more Indian volunteers to work in Germany. This partnership will help make strong developmental policies in both countries.”
 
 Delegates from Philippines, Thailand,  , Cambodia and China also participated in the conference along with participants from other states in the country. IGC’s board member Cyril Khisty was also present. Karen D’souza, Nikhil, Alexandria and Leena helped in organizing the event smoothly.
 
 
