GURGAON: Divisional commissioner D Suresh on Monday asked   ( ),  , not to increase fees, providing a much-needed relief to parents who have been on the protest path for around a month against exorbitant hikes.

 “I have informed the school management that they cannot charge what is not mentioned in the form VI document. They haven’t furnished the revised document as yet. Even worse, the school is not registered under the new name yet. We will issue a written notification in this regard soon. The school management had promised that if I passed written orders, they would oblige,” Suresh said.
 
 Suresh, who also heads the Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee ( ), further said that the government was taking the issue of form VI very seriously. “We can take action against schools and also recommend their de-recognition for violating norms,” he added.
 
 The development came following a series of protests by parents, who had met several senior government officials, including deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh and sub-divisional magistrate Bharat Bhushan, seeking their intervention to prevent the school from charging capitation fee and increasing tuition fees arbitrarily.
 
 After repeated pleas, divisional commissioner Suresh on May 5 issued an order, convening a meeting with the school management and parents on Monday. “The divisional commissioner clearly told the school management that they could not charge unregulated fees. Now, we are waiting for the formal order,” said Ishwinder Kaur, a parent.
 
 During meeting, Kaur added, Suresh also chided the school for not enrolling itself under its new name. “The school changed its name from   to DPSG last year and announced new fee structures. He also directed the school to not dismiss any student or issue deadlines to parents for paying fees until the guidelines from FFRC come forth,” she said. 
 
 Yashesh Yadav, another parent, said their struggle paid off. “The government has finally done justice. NM Bhatia, Deepika Sharma and Sudesh Chitnis, who represented the school in the meeting, had been told that the school could not charge any fee since it had not submitted the form VI yet,” he added.
 
 DPSG principal Deepika Sharma did not respond despite repeated calls.
 
