GHAZIABAD: The widening of   between   Gate on the   border and Dasna in UP will include building 15   and a flyover to make the 20km stretch signal-free.

 This will be a part of the NHAI’s ongoing Delhi-Meerut expressway project to widen the existing highway into a 14-lane one from Nizamuddin bridge in Delhi to Dasna (after Dasna, the road will be a six-lane one up to Meerut).
 
 Work widening the Nizamuddin bridge to UP Gate section began last year, and the second phase, up to Dasna, will begin on August 1, an NHAI official said. At UP Gate, work on extension of the Ghazipur flyover into Ghaziabad, which had been delayed owing to traffic movement issues during the kanwad festival, has also picked up pace. The UP Gate police outpost has been demolished. NHAI plans to throw open the flyover’s Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway by the end of August.
 
 The NHAI has set itself a target of 30 months to complete the second phase, which means the new highway should be ready by March 2020. According to the NHAI, a total of nine underpasses and three flyovers had originally been planned on the 20km stretch to Dasna. But following a revision in the detailed project report, the plan was amended to 15 underpasses and a just one flyover, at Lal Kuan. The underpasses will be built in such a way that there is no criss-crossing traffic on the expressway and traffic flow at intersections will be altered accordingly.
 
 NHAI project director RB   told TOI, “There will be no median cuts along the entire stretch. The 20-km stretch will be free from any signals to allow free flow of vehicles. The first section of the highway in Delhi is almost 50% complete.”
 
 The design of the expressway has been finalized following a series of meetings with the GDA. “The road profile has been finalised in consultation with GDA. We have asked the power corporation of UP for shifting two high-tension lines along NH-24 for construction work to commence. The power corporation has approved our proposal,” Singh said.
 
 The two high-tension lines stretch from Khoda in Ghaziabad to Sector 62 in Noida and from Vijay Nagar to Columbia Asia Hospital near Bamheta. According to NHAI, widening work will commence from the sides of the existing highway. Five lanes each will be added to each side of the existing highway before construction work begins on the main carriageway so that traffic is not disturbed.
 
 Officials said the underpasses will be constructed in a ‘staggered’ manner along the highway at locations between successive T-points where various arterial roads from Ghaziabad meet NH-24. The staggered underpasses had been proposed by the GDA after a concept plan prepared by the Delhi-based Institute of Urban Transport. 
 
 In the earlier plan, the underpasses were to be constructed at the T-points. But this was rejected in anticipation of traffic snarls and the need to install signals at T-points.
 
 
