

 The caller ID app flashes Nikhil Sharma’s name as Bruce Wayne, the secret identity of Batman. Like the fiercely private, gadget-loaded superhero, 27-year-old Sharma too does not reveal his address, rides a snazzy motorbike, kits himself out with fancy gadgets such as a drone camera and is often prone to vanishing from screen.Over two lakh people know him as "Mumbiker Nikhil", the hunky, windswept fellow who sticks a camera to the mouth of his helmet and allows them the first-person joy of speeding through snow-lined roads in Manali and Leh to the sound of tension-filled music, if not his laidback Hinglish banter.
 
 Sharma, whose YouTube channel boasts 2 lakh subscribers, is the face of a masked male online subculture called  , short for motorists creating video logs while riding. Over the last year, with a deluge of affordable action cameras hitting the market, the number of Indian motovloggers — chiefly men in their 20s juggling day jobs, big   and YouTube channels — has gone up by a few thousand. Yet, it is only a handful of early starters that enjoy the biggest subscriber base. With their high-definition, condensed road trips and cheeky, testosterone-fuelled reviews, they convert their chiefly male audience into joyous pillion.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Watching international motovloggers such as UK’s forever-masked ‘BaronVonGrumble’ and the good-natured ‘RoyalJordanian’, taught them early on about the best traffic-inducing rule: honesty. "You have to be real on YouTube," says Sharma, whose motovlog embraces his morning stubble, acknowledges accidents, shows rain ruining his bike and him winking at men peeing along a Gujarat highway. Even mothers of teen boys watch and approve of Sharma’s profanity-free videos. "They like that I call my mother," says Sharma. 
 
 Globally, a hacker-like anonymous aura engulfs motovloggers as most prefer to hide behind masks to escape getting caught for flouting online legalities. Hyderabad’s ‘HeartBroken Biker’ (HBB) has other reasons for not revealing his face in any of his 280-odd videos so far. Five years ago, it was a breakup that prompted this former techie to quit his job and soak up the healing powers of his sports bike. Behind his many imported masks-— including one imprinted with The Joker’s vile teeth — this 29-year-old gaming enthusiast comes across as a kind-hearted, attention-shunning vigilante who rescues dogs and feeds the homeless in his videos. "I even keep my subscriber count a secret," says HBB, whose video ‘How to win a street race in India’ won over 7 lakh views and global eyeballs. 
 
 Their road to online fame often starts off bumpy. "People used to comment on my accent," recalls Hyderabad-based Vikas Rachamalla, whose vlog focusedson performance-oriented motorcycles. "But I kept at it," says the software engineer, who works nights and edits his vlog on weekends and now has close to 50,000 subscribers. In his most popular video, Rachamalla asks a cop who had pulled him over for alleged overspeeding in Hyderabad: "If we can’t do 100 km per hour on a freeway, then what is the use of a freeway?" He has a specific problem with traffic cops. "They tend to stop fully-geared riders instead of catching riders without helmets," says Rachamalla, who makes sure his three-year-old son, Sid wears a helmet and rider jacket while on the bike. As Rachamalla’s pint-sized co-rider in many videos, Sid is a mini-celebrity now with 300 Facebook followers.
 
 If one accounts for the cost of riding gear, filming equipment, travel, and fuel, motovlogging is an expensive hobby with slow returns. Mazumder, a bike-reviewing motovlogger who hires female models for his motorcycle photoshoots, boasts riding gear worth Rs 2 lakh and has a filming team that uses equipment worth Rs 3 lakh. All he makes, after travelling to various cities for auto events, convincing unwilling dealerships in Kolkata to let him test bikes and breaking the monotony of technical videos with cheeky comments such as "Nice legs ... but please wear a helmet", is Rs 15,000 a month. But Mazumder’s reward comes from helping bikers. "My biggest compliment is when people say they purchased a motorcycle based on my review," says the 29-year-old. 
 
 Motovlogging inevitably throws up moments. Mazumder is by now used to strangers touching his elaborate riding gear. There are also those who react to the price of his superbikes saying he could have bought an SUV for Rs 18 lakh. "I could have," says Mazumder, "but then, I would be inside a cage."
 
