COIMBATORE: It’s rickety-rackety, and makes more noise than the distance it covers, but the   or the  , continues to be the major tourist attraction in the western belt. Tickets for the train have been completely sold out till June 30. This despite the rail journey uphill from   taking 90 minutes more than the road.

 The NMR has been fully booked during the summer for the fifth consecutive year. Salem division officials say the train has been getting full occupancy ever since seats were opened for online reservations. “It has been running full from 2008,” said a senior Salem division official. “Once online reservations were open, many travel agents began booking it, offering it as a part of their tour packages thus making the train more popular and easier to travel on,” he said.
 
 The 110-year-old train, introduced by the British, continues to be one of the few surviving steam locomotives in the country. With a four-hour ride uphill that includes journeys through dense  , long tunnels, small hill towns, the Wellington cantonment and the Aravankadu Cordite Factory, the journey during a holiday season is filled with excited screams of tourists and enthusiasts. “Though the four-and-half hour journey does get a little long for adults, the children enjoy it,” said Sudhavalli Ramesh who took her niece and nephew on the train a couple of years back. “They loved the scenic beauty, the many tunnels and the towns. If people play cards and pack something to eat, the journey is extremely enjoyable,” she said.
 
 Last year, an additional coach was given to the NMR to handle the growing passenger traffic and that too has been occupied fully. “Till last year, only three coaches were pulled up from Mettupalayam to Coonoor, one of them being first class. After our repeated requests, a fourth coach was added. This one also becoming full means NMR is in demand,” said heritage rail activist R Natarajan. The train which now carries 236 passengers takes around four-and-half hours to reach Ooty from Mettupalayam. “Of the 236 seats, 30 are unreserved tickets which can be purchased at the counter. They get sold out in minutes before the journey,” said Natarajan. The tickets are still priced at Rs 15 for a trip uphill and downhill.
 
 But there is only one trip uphill from Mettupalayam and another downhill from Coonoor to Mettupalayam which inconveniences tourists. “Tourists become disappointed after waiting for hours in the queue. There is a demand and requirement for an additional trip both uphill and downhill at least during the tourist season of four months,” said Natarajan.
 
