GURUGRAM: An   has been issued against slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli’s sister Sudesh in the   case of liquor businessman Manish alias Pappu. Cops said Sudesh was part of the plan to eliminate Manish, the brother of jailed rival gangster Binder Gujjar, and she will soon be arrested along with other co-accused in the case.

 According to police, Sudesh and her two brothers — Brahmprakash and Kuldeep — had hatched the plan to kill Manish to take revenge for the alleged fake encounter of Sandeep in Mumbai last year. And Binder, who is currently in Bhondsi jail, and his younger brother Manoj were their next target.
 
 The same has been confirmed by Brahmprakash who was arrested by Gurgaon police last month; four sharpshooters of the Gadoli gang who were also nabbed in January by police in Rohtak; and Kuldeep who was arrested by Delhi Police in November last year, cops said.
 
 Based on the complaint of Manish’s father, police had named all the three main accused — Brahmprakash, Kuldeep and Sudesh — in the FIR as well as Kaushal, a gangster, and his two associates, Manish and Amit, who are currently on the run.
 
 “Sandeep sister Sudesh is still at large in liquor businessman Manish’s murder case. But we have got the warrant of arrest against Sudesh from a city court and efforts are on to nab her,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI on Tuesday. Sandeep, who had 36 cases registered against him and carried a reward of Rs 1.25 lakh, was killed in an alleged fake encounter by Gurgaon police in a Mumbai hotel on February 7 last year. It was alleged the murder plan was hatched by Binder from Bhonsi jail in Gurgaon.
 
 A few days later, Kuldeep had approached the Bombay high court, urging it to order the lodging of an FIR and judicial inquiry against Gurgaon cops who carried out the alleged encounter. Subsequently, eight persons, including five Gurgaon cops and Sandeep’s girlfriend, were booked for murder and a special investigation team (SIT) was also formed by Mumbai police. Six out of the eight were arrested and are now in jail.
 
 
