With absolutely no lights, we were armed with a flashlight (and some amount of moonlight) with which we walked our way into the marsh lands. Our guide took us to the first enclosure and asked us to hold the flash light near our ear. The first visual was the 100 glowing eyes, which sent a shiver down our spine. As we threw the lights across the enclosure to get a closer view, there we saw a 100 crocodiles resting in peace, at the zoo. That was our welcome to the night safari at the The   and Centre for Herpetology. Adventure enthusiasts needn’t look beyond the city for night safaris as the   safari allows visitors to get a view of 17 types of crocodiles (among 23 in the world), snakes and turtles. We hear that the night is when crocodiles really come to life. Territorial disputes, breeding activity along with a few other crocodile behaviour are common sights at the night safaris. While it has been there for quite some time, a peek into some new crocs and enclosures was an inviting offer.

 Starting off with a brief history of the zoo, our guide   explained various insights about crocs and things one can spot especially during the night. “We recently celebrated 40 years of this zoo,” she begins. “The highlight of the safari, of course, is the eye shine. They have a membrane called the tapetum lucidum, which is the layer of tissue in the eyes that is present in many vertebrates. Crocs are nocturnal, which means that they are more active during the night. We don’t switch on any lights in the night. So when adventure junkies come, the visual of the eye shine is spell-bounding,” explains Anjana.
 
  
 Going past the marsh crocs was the view of the pythons. “The zoo has both venomous and non-venomous snakes. We have the Indian rock python, green anaconda, etc, to name a few. Some are spotted in the zoo, too. But most snakes give a warning when they attack. Also, as long as we don’t irritate them, they don’t attack us,” she adds. Next up was the West African dwarf crocodile. “It is the smallest of true crocodilians,” says Anjana. There was also the yacare caiman, a species that is found in   followed by gharial. “Gharial, which is found in India, is a large-sized endangered reptile. Only one enclosure of the gharial is open for visitors. And during the night safaris, only we are allowed to flash light as they are shy animals,” she explains, taking us to the other side of the gharial enclosure. We also got to see the siamese crocodile and nile crocodile, along with a few others. But as we were walking past the enclosure, there was a shudder, which scared almost all the visitors. “That was the jaw clap,” she informs.
 
 Interestingly, this is the egg laying season for the crocs. “Among reptiles, crocs show most parental care. They are known to be aggressive parents. They have two type of nests — mound and hole nest. Usually, the temperature of the egg determines the sex of the crocs. If it is intermediate temperature, it will be a male. If it is too high or low, it is a female. They use the environment to main their body temperature.”
 
  
 We also got a glimpse of the  . Anjana says, “Also known as the false gharial, ours is the only zoo in India to have a pair of it. It is native to Malaysia, Sumatra and Java.” We also caught the mating of the saltwater crocodile, the oldest resident, which is 55 years old. A few steps away was the sight of a baby dwarf crocodile, actively playing the water. A scary yet interesting walk across six acres of the zoo, the night out was sure fun!
 
 
 Started in 1976, the Crocodile Bank is founded by   and Zai Whitalker with the goal of securing breeding population of the three species of Indian crocodile: the mugger, the saltwater crocodile and the rarest of all, the gharial (seen on top is a gharial). Now, of the 23 species of crocodiles, this zoo houses 17 species.
 
 
 One of the species, tomistoma, is seen only in this zoo in India. Seen here is a female tomistoma, which lost its tail during mating. The zoo authorities immediately called the veterinarians and got her checked. Though it doesn’t have a tail, she can swim (considerably), reproduce, feed and is quite healthy. 
  
 
 
