BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   inaugurated the 11th International Film Festival on Art and Artists at Idcol Auditorium here on Friday. Also present was noted filmmaker and 2004   award winner, Adoor Gopalakrishnan. 

 As many as 40 films will be screened during the three-day event organised by the  , in association with the state government. The focus of this year's festival will be architecture. 
 
 "This type of festival plays a significant role in documenting and preserving the state's art and artists for future generations," said Naveen at the inauguration. 
 
 "Knowledge on arts, artists and the   will certainly make an impact on our young and talented artistes. Together we will enrich each other by blending of art and culture," the chief minister added.
 
 Twelve films were screened on day one of the festival. One of the main draws and the first film of the festival was 'I am Kalam' director Nila Madhab Panda's noted documentary film, 'Nabakalebara (God's Own People)'. Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan's baritone voiceover in the film was a natural hit with the audience at the festival.
 
 Already acclaimed, 'Nabakalebara' is a narrative that showcases Odia folks' relationship with god. The   is a shortened version of the original 83-minute-long documentary. Taking its viewers through a journey into the birth of the gods, it portrays essential rituals that servitors follow while making new idols, like locating and cutting the 'right' trees, the wood of which will be used for construction.
 
 Another movie that made fans out of audiences was 'We Make Images' ('Hum Chitra Banate Hain'), which is directed by Nina Sabnani and is an animated interpretation of the creation of a myth in the Bhil community in Madhya Pradesh. This 9-minute-long film is a collaboration with the indigenous artist Sher Singh.
 
 JD Centre of Art founder Jatin Das said this film festival is unique in the country. "We have introduced foreign films in the festival this year. We will make it more interesting in future," Das added. 
 
 'Saiva' by Norwegian Tuva Synnevag, 'Extrapolate' by Dutch director Johan Rijpma and 'Metamorphosis' by Sujata Kulshrestha, were also screened among others.
 
 Fifteen display stalls were also opened at the festival venue. Pattachitra from Chandanpur in Puri district, Bengali pattachitra from Medinipur in West Bengal, etc. were on display.
 
