Dhanbad: Saraidhela police on Thursday registered an FIR against   BJP MLA   and four others for his alleged role in the murder of former deputy mayor Neeraj Singh on Tuesday.

 Acting on a complaint by Abhishek Singh, brother of the deceased, police have registered a case under sections 307, 302 and 120 (b) of the Indian Penal Code and section 27 of Arms Act against the   lawmaker and his associates Jainendra Singh, Mahant Pandey, Gaya Singh and Siddharth Singh.
 
 Officer-in-charge of Saraidhela police station told TOI that a special investigation team has been constituted to probe the case. However, no arrests or detentions have been done till now.
 
 In the FIR, Abhishek said he saw Sanjeev carrying a gun wrapped in a cloth when he was running from the spot. He added that the legislator reportedly told him “Tumhare bhaiya ko to maar diya, ab tumhari baari hai” (I have killed your elder brother and now it is your turn). 
 
 However, refuting all charges, Sanjeev Singh denied his involvement in the crime. Addressing a press meet at his residence in the afternoon, the BJP leader said he was surprised to know that an FIR had been registered against him. Terming the allegations as baseless, Sanjeev said, “I myself came to know about the incident while browsing a news portal on my phone. I welcome any kind of probe and will cooperate with the investigation team.”
 
 He added, “After seeing the newspapers in the morning, I came to know that an FIR has been registered against me. I have not been informed officially by the police.”
 
 Responding to questions on the written complaint, Sanjeev said, “Let the investigating team do its work. It is too early to comment on the incident.” The MLA also refused to comment on the deteriorating law and order situation in the district.
 
 Neeraj Singh, his driver and two others were killed after unidentified men opened fire on the vehicle he was travelling in on Tuesday. The assailants fired at least 15 rounds of bullets, injuring all four persons inside the vehicle. The injured were rushed to Central Hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. Doctors said Neeraj received nearly 18 bullets in his body. 
 
 
