DEHRADUN: It is goodbye to ‘ghost teachers’ in   and a tough time for doctors practising in private clinics during duty hours, because their attendance will be linked with their person identification number ( ). This decision of   department has left employees at several institutions rattled.
 
  The facility will be implemented first at   where Aadhaar details of doctors have been sought to facilitate installation of biometric ‘fingerprint attendance’ machines. The move will help stop doctors leaving hospital before work hours for private practice and will also curb the activities of colleges which are running medical courses despite very small faculty strength, sources said.
  
  A team from the Medical Council of India (MCI) will reach Dehradun on April 11, to oversee the installation of the attendance machines as Doon Hospital and five other hospitals. Since the machines will have the Aadhaar details of the doctors linked to it, there will be no scope for forgery, officials said.
  
  In Uttarakhand, which is short of medical professionals, the decision will not only hit private colleges hard but also government medical colleges. In the health department there are around 2,400 posts of doctors, of which only around 1,100 have been filled.
  
  While Doon Hospital and Srinagar medical college currently have a deficit of around 30% of academic staff, Haldwani medical college is also running short of 10% of its sanctioned staff strength, according to a top official of medical education.
  
  The current status of staff at private medical institutions has been vague, but the new system will help clear the air. MCI’s move has left these institutions and their staff uneasy, as they are said to be uncomfortable at the “monitoring” of their movements by the body.
  
  Dr Pradeep Bharti Gupta, principal of Doon Medical College and Hospital said, “The move will make the system more efficient. A doctor will not be able to enroll himself in several institutions, as his Aadhaar number will automatically show up in MCI’s records.”
  
  Uttarakhand, which is home to half-a-dozen private and public medical colleges will be directly linked to medical colleges across the country, which will enable the Centre to evaluate the actual position of availability of doctors in the state.
  
  “The move will be implemented across government facilities. We are sure it will help us in resolving long-pending health and medical education related issues,” said Dr Ashutosh Sayana, director, Uttarakhand medical education department.
