CHANDIGARH: State consumer disputes redressal forum has asked real estate developers   to refund Rs 35.91 lakh to a Jalandhar resident with 12% interest after the company failed to deliver a flat on time. 

 The forum also ordered the builders to pay compensation of Rs 1.50 lakh for causing mental agony and physical harassment.
 
 In his complaint,   stated that he had booked a flat in the company's project 'Emerging Height 4' on Landran-Banur Road, Mohali in April, 2012 and the firm had agreed to give possession by 2014. He first paid the booking amount of Rs 9.20 lakh and later made payments to the tune of Rs 26.71 lakh.
 
 Total price of the flat was fixed at Rs 37.80 lakh plus club charges of Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 maintenance charges.
 
 He said when the agreement was made, the developers had promised that if the company fails to deliver the flat on time, it will pay 12% interest per annum on the amount paid till the date of actual possession.
 
 Jarnail Singh continued to wait for the flat but the company did not provide it till 2016. Following this, he visited the project site only to be shocked to know that the construction had not started yet. The complaint stated that this amounts unfair trade practice.
 
 He also alleged that when he paid the money to the company in 2012, the firm did not even have the change of land use certificate mandatory for any construction.
 
 In reply, the builder stated that the unit was ready for delivery on October 17, 2016, and the complainant was asked to pay the remaining amount. However, he failed to give the amount that resulted in delay.
 
 After hearing the arguments, the forum said when the project was launched not even a single approval was granted by the authorities. Photographic evidence and other documents showed that project was still incomplete, the forum said.
 
 The forum ruled that the builder was guilty of providing deficient service to the complainant and the amount should be refunded with interest.
 
 It also asked the developers to pay compensation of Rs 1.50 lakh for causing mental agony and physical harassment. Moreover, litigation cost of Rs 25,000 should also be paid. 
 
