GURUGRAM: In rural  , 200-odd students of some   have taken it upon themselves to ensure roads in their villages are rebuilt and the schools get clean water supply, all of which has eluded their villages for long.

 It all began when Aman Raghav (15), a Class XI student of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Bhondsi, was selected by his teacher to come up with a civic project that would benefit the village. “So far, students had been drinking water stored in plastic tanks,” said Sunita Yadav, his teacher. “Text books taught them that access to clean water was their fundamental right. But now, they are discovering it through their own industry.”
 
 The students perused law books to fish out the statute under which they were entitled to clean water in schools — Section 21 of Haryana Panchayat Act 1994 — and wrote a letter to the Bhondsi sarpanch Durga Devi. “She couldn’t help immediately, citing budgetary constraints,” said Yadav. “But impressed by their activism, she pledge two RO purifiers — for their school, and for the Government Girls Senior Secondary School (GGSSS) Bhondsi — in March, when the new financial year begins.”
 
 “We understood how to use concepts from the classroom to solve real issues. We convinced our Sarpanch to install the RO. This has given us confidence to resolve other issues of our village,” Aman told TOI.
 
 In another similar exercise by students of GSSS Ghamroj, student volunteers pushed for the repair of the road connecting their school. “It was crater-ridden and covered in slush, which soiled our shoes and socks,” said  , a student. 
 
 “They wrote a letter to the Ghamroj sarpanch Mamata,” said their teacher Kusum Lata. Pressurised, she told them tendering for the repair work was being finalised. “The students, though, kept frequenting her,” their teacher continued. “Finally, earlier this week, she told them the BDO and SDM has sanctioned Rs 20 lakh for the repair of the road.”
 
 Anjali and Aman are part of a project —   — led by   (DIET) Gurgaon and We The People, an NGO, which seeks to make their Civics curriculum a part of their lives. “We conceived the project in September 2016,” said Neha Yadav, coordinator at We the People (North India). “It enables students to have a holistic Civics education.”
 
 A total of 29 schools were roped in for the project. Eventually, efforts of five (GGSSS Farrukhnagar and Jacobpura, and GSSS Jamalpur, Bhondsi and Ghamroj) stood out. In September 2016, 49 teachers from these schools were given training “to ensure they are aware of the task they would entrust their students with”, said Vineeta Singh, director at We the People. 
 
 Yadav said the exercise involved students interacting with government directly. “In private schools, they have state-of-the-art infrastructure. Children know how the lodge complaints with government officials,” said a teacher at GSSS Bhondsi. “In government schools, this is completely new. They are required to walk up to offices of the officials, and take up the matter with them. The exercise has a profound impact. Not only do students establish direct contact with this state’s administrators, but also learn to become active citizens.”
 
 
