NEW DELHI: The   ( ) took possession of the 17 acre beach-facing farmhouse worth about Rs 100 crore of fugitive businessman   in Alibag on Thursday.

 The agency had issued an eviction notice to the liquor tycoon on April 25 to vacate the property.
 
 The ED has identified properties worth over Rs 11,000 crore belonging to Mallya and at least Rs 9,000 crore worth of properties have already been attached by the agency under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.
 
 Mallya is facing money laundering charges and is currently out on bail after the Scotland Yard arrested him in London recently. In the farmhouse case, he had moved the appellate tribunal of PMLA seeking stay against the ED’s eviction notice. The tribunal, however, had dismissed Mallya’s appeal on Tuesday giving ED the freedom to take possession of his property.
 
 Mallya owns more than Rs 9,000 crore to a consortium of banks. In his case with the IDBI, the former IDBI Bank CMD Yogesh Aggarwal had disbursed at least Rs 350 crore to the former liquor baron’s now defunct Kingfisher Airlines even before the loan was sanctioned by the bank. The agencies have alleged that the loan was disbursed merely on the basis of Aggarwal's conversation with Mallya.
 
 ED had attached the Mandwa Farms Pvt Ltd, the 17-acre property in Alibag at Mandwa in Kolegaon village of Raigad district, in September last year through an attachment order in a bank cheating and money laundering case. Mallya is the owner of Mandwa Farms Pvt Ltd and his lawyers had approached the appellate tribunal following the eviction notice issued to him on April 25. Confirming the possession of Mandwa farmhouse, a senior ED official said the property belongs to Mandwa Farms Pvt Ltd which was being controlled by Vijay Mallya.
 
 The ED is currently seeking his deportation from London and has submitted evidences to the counsel representing India’s case before a London court seeking his custody. Mallya was arrested by Scotland Yard on April 18 and later released on bail. A senior ED official said the evidences submitted before a special court in Mumbai, which had last year issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the beleaguered businessman, would serve as proof against Mallya to get his custody.
 
 The agency had gathered evidence of how Mallya had defrauded banks and obtained huge loans without required approvals in place and laundered the money through his other companies and trusts in tax havens. He has been absconding and refused to appear before the investigating agencies which led the courts to issue non-bailable warrant against him.
 
 
 
 
