AHMEDABAD: The Sabarmati police on Wednesday afternoon found some 180 A4-size papers, 65 of which had been used to print images of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 currency notes. 

 The papers were found in a bag in a railway container in which a coal consignment of a power company had been stored.
 
 According to senior police officials, the security staff of the power company informed the Sabarmati police about a cloth bag containing the papers. 
 
 “We suspect that the prints are photocopies of notes,” said joint commissioner of police, Sector -1, Piyush Patel. Police sources said either the bag was meant for someone who would cut out fake notes from papers or the bag had been discarded in the container. 
 
 Recently, Rajkot Police had seized fake notes with the face value of Rs 4 crore. “There were 22,000 fake currency notes in the denomination of Rs 2,000. We arrested six accused,” a senior police official said. 
 
 As for the bag, Patel said CCTV footage was being gathered from different railway stations to get clues.
 
 Old notes worth Rs22.62L seized on SG Road 
 
 Ahmedabad: The city police have seized demonetized currency in denominations of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 — with value amounting to Rs 22.62 lakh — from a businessman on the SG Road. He has been identified as Sudhir Patel of Vadhvan, Surendranagar. 
 
 Sola police has registered a case under sections (4) and (5) of the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act-2017, as Patel is neither an   nor he had gone out of the country between November 9 and December 31, 2016 — the exchange of notes is allowed if the holder is an NRI or if he or she had been out of the country in that period.
 
 Police said Patel had come to Ahmedabad to exchange the notes by paying a heavy commission. “Patel owns a shop, Zalavad Agro in Vadhvan,” said a senior police official. 
 
 “He said a man called Pallav Patel of Ahmedabad was the middleman who had arranged the exchange. We have summoned Pallav to record his statement.”
 
 According to police sources, based on a tip-off, they intercepted the SUV driven by Sudhir Patel. “We found 2,169 demonetized notes of the Rs 1,000 denomination and 186 notes of the Rs 500 denomination.” Police sources said they have not arrested Sudhir Patel and have informed the   and income tax officials. 
 
