JAIPUR: Prime minister of   Sheikh Hasina's acknowledgement of the role of Jaipur native retired lieutent colonel Himmat Singh of 4 Guards Battalion, who played a vital role in the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971 war, has put the spotlight on the role of Singh's valour. 

 He was then the CO of 4 Guards and had stayed in Dacca (  was spelled as Dacca then) for three months with his battalion. The then prime minister Shiekh Mujibur Rahman had attended a farewell ceremony to Indian soldiers on March 12, 1972. Singh gave the guard of honour to Rahman in the same ceremony.
 
 Emotions ran high for Hasina when she was showed an invite signed by her father Rahman by Singh's wife Jane Himmat Singh in a ceremony held at   office in New Delhi on April 7 during her India visit. Hasina acknowledged the role of Indian soldiers in the liberation of Bangladesh. "Bangladesh PM signed below his father's signature on the card as respect to great visionary leader Rahman," said Jane. The Himmat Singh's family also possessed a rare flag of Bangladesh hoisted in the streets of Dhaka. The Flag is hand stitched and has a map of Bangladesh, later the map was dropped from the national flag of Bangladesh. "The flag which i took it from Bangladesh as a souvenir showed to Hasina. She again acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of Indians," said Jan.
 
 Singh, whose regiment was among the first to enter Dhaka via   under the supervision of Lt Ge Jagjit Singh Aurora. The 12 day war conclusive war had filled the confidence of Bangladeshi nationals. Retired, Major Chandrakant Singh, a second in command to Himmat Singh who got injured in 1971 war recalled the turning point of the battle 4 Guard fought, "On December 1, 1971 we crossed the border and were 15 miles behind the enemy. However, our tanks were bogged down in the marshy area. Meanwhile, Pakistan tanks attacked us and one of our platoon were overrun by them leaving few martyrs. Our Commanding officer, Himmat Singh calculated the risk and asked to contain the position which worked as Pakistani troops didn't attack us for 24 hours giving us enough time for preparing for attack. Thereafter on December 3 in a battle we killed 66 enemy soldiers which sparked panic among them," said Chandrakant Singh. Jane had also showed the extraordinary courage by visited the war torn country in March, 1972. 
 
 "I visited there to meet my husband who was away from home from the last one year. When I landed in Dhaka, I could feel the devastation as everything was closed. People have abandoned their houses and we lived in one abandoned house for 15 days. During the time I got the opportunity to meet the visionary leader of   during a farewell ceremony to Indian forces on March 12, 1972," said Jane.
 
