Lucknow: Voter number 141 of   Central constituency, former prime minister   Behari Vajapayee cast his vote last in 2004. “Woh hamesha line me lag kar hi apna vote dete the, kabhi bhi VIP treatment nahi lete the (He always stood in line to cast his vote and never availed of VIP treatment),’’ said 75-year-old Abdul Salim Khan, sharing with TOI on the voting day on Sunday vivid memories of Vajapayee’s visit to   296 at Lucknow’s Bishan Narain Inter College located near Leela cinema. 

 Khan, who has seen him giving autographs to people outside the polling station, reminiscised, “Atal ji ki baat hi alag thi. Unke jaisa neta poore Hindustan me nahin (Atal ji was a leader like no other in India who represented not only Lucknow or UP but the entire nation.’’ 
 
 When Yogesh Sharma was 44-year-old in 2004, he got the opportunity to catch a glimpse of Vajapayee. “As soon as I parked my car outside the booth, I saw Atal ji, surrounded by people, entering the polling booth. I remember there was a big queue and people asked Atal ji to use his VIP status and jump the queue to vote first but he replied in his characteristic chaste Hindi and tone of the poet he was, ‘Mere liye har ek voter sammaananiya hai (every voter deserves his due in respect). Such was his humility,’’ recalled Yogesh. 
 
 “As he entered the college, people touched his feet as if he was a deity. Atal ji was beyond religion. For him, everyone, irrespective of caste, colour and creed was equal and respectable,’’ said 63-year-old Shamshad Ali, a resident of La Place. 
 
 For 65-year-old Munni Devi, who has been casting her vote for more than three decades at the same booth, not much has changed since 2004 after Vajapayee stopped coming in to vote. “The polling booth is still the same. Par ye baat zaroor hai ki woh aate the to hum jaise voters ki pehchaan ho jaati thi, ki ye log usi polling booth me jaate hai jahan Atal ji vote daalte hai (We were recognised as people who cast their vote at the polling booth where Atal ji voted,’’ Munni recalled. 
 
 Shiv Shankar Goswami, 65, once had the opportunity to share a car ride with Vajapayee. He recalled, “When I sat with him, he took out cloves to chew and on my asking, said they help in clearing his throat helping him deliver his speeches.’’ He added that standing in line at the polling booth Atal ji always asked people to vote for development. 
 
 
