KOLKATA: From next year, the   and mathematics question papers will offer fewer choices and necessitate students to have a wider grasp of the subject.

 Feeling the need to give its students a better opportunity at cracking national entrance tests, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has introduced a host of changes that will see the   and mathematics papers mirror the CBSE format.
 
 The board has uploaded on its website specimen papers of the three science subjects and mathematics, giving details of the new question pattern and the marks break-up.
 
 “The syllabi of physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology has been updated to meet the needs of professional courses and entrance examinations. To ensure that more and more students succeed in the national entrance examinations, the science question format has been restructured,” said principal of Rammohan Mission High School, Sujoy Biswas.
 
 In mathematics, for example, students will now have to answer all questions in the 80-mark section A (general mathematics) that is compulsory for all the three streams — science, humanities and commerce. While the choice between the 20-mark section B (3D geometry, vector and probability) and section C (commerce related) remains, students will have to answer all questions for whichever section they choose. There may be internal options in some questions.
 
 According to Samik Basu, teacher of mathematics at Rammohan Mission High School, the marks distribution exactly follows the CBSE pattern. “Now, students will no longer feel that the CBSE mathematics paper is more apt for cracking the national entrance tests,” he said.
 
 Nabarun De, secretary of the Association of ICSE Schools in Bengal and North-East, said students will now need to have a wider grasp of the subjects. “This will promote complete text-book reading instead of selective study. The candidates will depend less on model test papers and suggestions,” he said.
 
 The board is banking on the syllabus restructuring to stem the flow of science students to CBSE in Class XI.
 
 Question papers for ICSE, too, is being made more contemporary from 2019. In the English Language paper, students may be asked to write an e-mail instead of the traditional letter. The   English language paper will get a new component – proposal writing – from 2019. “A real-life situation will be given to students and they will have to pen a plan on ways to organize the event,” said vice-principal of Baranagar Modern School, Sangeeta Basu.
 
 In the ISC English literature paper, the 20-mark long questions will be broken into smaller questions. “It will be much easier for students to score and the marking too will be more objective,” Basu said.
 
 The question paper formats of history and accounts have also undergone minor changes.
 
 
