CHANDIGARH: Making it clear that political science and public administration are two different and independent subjects and cannot be considered equal for the appointment of teaching faculty, the Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside the appointment of an assistant professor in a government-aided private college. Justice P B Bajanthri of the   passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by Reena of Bhiwani.

 The petitioner, a postgraduate in political science, had applied for the post of assistant professor (political science) advertised by the C R Kisan College, Jind, in 2012. Though she had MA and MPhil degrees in political science and qualified the National Eligibility Test (NET) conducted by the  , Yudhvir, who was having masters degree in public administration and a resident of Dalamwala village in Jind district, was selected by the college administration. The petitioner was placed at number two in the merit list.
 
 Challenging the selection, the petitioner claimed that Yudhvir was selected by the selection committee despite dissent from a member of the selection committee and representative of vice-chancellor of  . The main argument of the petitioner was that principal of the college had deliberately ignored the fact that a person possessing degree in public administration could not be appointed for the post of political science.
 
 She had also cited various communications in which the academic council of Mahrishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, high-powered academic committee of Kurukshetra University as well as the higher education department Haryana had clarified that political science and public administration are two subjects and are not interchangeable. The college administration as well as the selected candidate was taking the plea that political science and public administration are inter-related subjects. They had also referred to some communications between higher education department and the  , observing both subjects as same.
 
 Hearing the arguments, Justice Bajanthri, in a detailed order released on Friday, observed that the question of relevant subject and inter-related subject argument could not be accepted. “Unless and until rule/statutory rules are amended appropriately, umpteen number of communications does not give any right to the person who holds the qualification like public administration in the present case for the purpose of appointment to the post of assistant professor in political science,” observed the HC. 
 
 Allowing the petitioner, the HC has directed the college administration to consider petitioner for the selection and appointment to the post within three months.
 
 
 
 
 The order will have huge ramifications in the state as some other colleges and universities have given appointments considering both political science and public administration as inter-related and same. They are also under judicial scanner on similar grounds.
 
 
