CHENNAI: Would you eat a dish made of mercury, lead, nickel and tin? And yet Tamil Nadu’s three thermal power stations are forcing consumers in the state to do just that as they keep releasing toxic waste with no control mechanism, monitoring or effluent treatment into the sea, severely damaging the marine ecosystem.

 In its recent audit, the CAG found North Chennai and Tuticorin Thermal Power Stations releasing 126 kilo litres of effluent an hour; over five years this amounts to as high as 6.58 billion cubic metre of untreated effluent being discharged into the Bay of Bengal.
 
 Ethnologists say this could have a cataclysmic effect on marine life and humans. "Discharge from thermal plants contain fly ash, oil, grease, toxic chemicals, heavy metals like mercury and lead. This can be toxic and can lead to biomagnification of the species," says professor D Narasimhan, environmentalist and author of ‘Ethnobotany of Kondh, Poraja, Gadaba and Bonda of the Koraput Region of Odisha, India’. 
 
 For example if a fish consumes a worm that has ingested a toxic chemical then there is biomagnification. As the fish in turn gets eaten by a swordfish, which in turn might be eaten by an octupus, animals on the upper tiers of the food chain like sharks, dolphins, whales tend to eat and store more pollutants. 
 
 "Such pollutants are not biodegradable and can remain in an ecosystem for decades in a vicious loop," says Narasimhan.
 
 Another issue is the temperature at which the effluents are being discharged. 
 
 "Units I, II and III of the North Chennai plant were found to be releasing 99,000 cubic metres of effluent per hour, while units IV and V were releasing hot effluent water of 2.20 lakh cubic metres per hour. When this was found to be an environment hazard, the government was asked to carry out necessary repair work. The government proposed in November 2016 to reconstruct a damaged culvert and widen the channel, but such measures have still not be taken," said the CAG.
 
 The CAG noted with concern that the North Chennai plant is discharging its effluent into its fly ash pond. The audit said the plant’s recovery water pump house (RWPH) was not being properly maintained and repaired — leading to discharged water from this ash pond directly being let into the Ennore creek. "Though the RWPH has been repaired as per a government report in November 2016, a quantum of 8.05 lakh cubic metre has already been discharged into the Ennore creek in the interim," noted the CAG.
 
 The three thermal power plants also do not have real-time effluent mointoring systems at discharge points to measure the total dissolved solids (TDS) and temperature.
 
 "The online monitoring systems were to completed by March 31, 2015. But at both Tuticorin and North Chennai Stage I has not been installed," said the CAG.
 
 
