CHENNAI: Close to two months after the government launched a mobile application for consumers to lodge complaints related to pricing and discrepancies in weights and measures of commodities, poor patronage has forced officials to now chalk out an awareness drive. 

 From the time the application – TN Legal Metrology Complaint Tracking System (TN-LMCTS) – was introduced in the state, the labour department has received around 84 complaints, 80% of which relate to maximum retail price ( ) violations. While Chennai registered the highest number of grievances, some trickled in from Coimbatore and Madurai, said a senior official in the legal metrology department, the wing that regulates weights and measures used in trade and commerce for transaction. The app has got around 1,000 downloads so far.
 
 The initiative was aimed at making the registration of complaints, including on overcharging, short-changing at petrol outlets and sale of products lower than specified weight, hassle-free for customers. At present, most of the grievances are sent either by post, email or delivered physically. 
 
 Under LMCTS, customers can send a photograph or a video of a shop or a product, or a voice or text message, to the legal metrology department through the application with details of the trader, address and nature of violation. They can also attach the copy of bills. The complainant will be provided with a unique complaint ID number that can be used to track the progress of the complaint. “We receive two kinds of complaints – quick and regular. The former is directed to a control room in the labour department, while the latter is directly sent to the respective area inspector,” said the official in the legal metrology department. The customer gets an SMS or email on action taken in 48 hours. Higher officials can also monitor the action taken by the department.
 
 Most people TOI spoke to were unaware of the app.  , a bank employee living in  , said she often came across MRP violations while shopping. “I either haggle or just don’t buy. And I associate lodging complaints with cumbersome paperwork. If I had known about this app, I would have sent at least a dozen pictures a day – that’s how rampant trade malpractices are,” she said. 
 
 Consumer activists say the government needs to push more to create awareness. “They should publicise the facility by putting up posters at commercial places like malls and markets,” said T  , a consumer activist. 
 
 State labour and employment secretary   has directed the legal metrology department to start a drive to make more people download the application. “We have made a short film on the initiative which will be shown in theatres. In addition we will also be conducting workshops in schools and colleges,” said the legal metrology official. 
 
 Meanwhile, efforts are also on to upscale the application to enable registration of complaints related to food safety and the public distribution system. 
 
 
