Ghaziabad: A 34-year-old parking contractor was shot dead by seven bike-borne assailants who rained bullets on a Scorpio in which he was travelling in Ghaziabad on Wednesday. The Scorpio driver also sustained serious injuries but managed to drive his vehicle to the hospital. He has been admitted to   in Vaishali.

 The victim has been identified as Mintu, a resident of Ghazipur in Delhi, who held the parking contract rights of Max Hospital in Patparganj. He was in the front seat of the Scorpio when the attack took place. The driver has been identified as Nagender (30), a valet working with Mintu.
 
 The crime took place near Hindon Barrage in   at around 2.30pm when Mintu was returning home after a personal appearance in an attempt to murder case in Ghaziabad district courts. Mintu, an accused in the case, was accompanied by his friend Manoj (29), who was driving a Swift Dzire behind Mintu’s vehicle.
 
 “As soon as we crossed the Hindon Barrage, three bikes overtook us from behind. There were seven men on the three bikes. One of the bikers parked his motorcycle right in front of the Scorpio, blocking its path. The men then began firing indiscriminately at the Scorpio. They must have fired around 25 rounds. They would have killed me too if they had realized that I was in my car a few meters behind the Scorpio,” said Manoj, who is also from Ghazipur.
 
 The assailants shot several rounds of bullets at Mintu through the window panes of the black-coloured Scorpio that had a Delhi registration number. The driver, Nagender, was also shot at.
 
 After the attack, two bikes made a U-turn and drove in the opposite direction. One of the bikers sped on his motorcycle towards Vasundhara. The driver of the Scorpio, Nagender, though injured, drove his vehicle to Max Hospital, Vaishali with Manoj trailing him in his Swift Dzire. “We rushed Mintu to the hospital in the Scorpio and also informed police. I can identify the assailants as they had past enmity with us. They had falsely implicated us in the case for which we had appeared in the court,” said Manoj.
 
 Doctors told TOI that Mintu was dead by the time he was brought to the hospital. “Mintu had sustained at least six to seven gunshot wounds on his chest and abdomen including one in the heart region that had ruptured major blood vessels. Nagender has two gunshot wounds on his back and has fractured his right scapula. He is serious and has been admitted to the ICU,” said Dr Dheeraj Nair of Max Hospital, Vaishali.
 
 Senior police officers rushed to the spot and to the hospital immediately after the crime. According to police, the two groups were embroiled in a fight pertaining to parking contracts and employment of bouncers in pubs and bars of NCR. Police suspect Wednesday’s shooting was a result of gang war between the two groups that had begun in 2013.
 
 In 2013, one Praveen of Ghazipur was shot at in Kaushambi area over a parking contract row. Praveen, who had sustained five bullet injuries in the attack, had survived. However, Praveen’s friends and family members had thrashed his suspected attackers. Following this, the attackers’ family had registered a case of attempt-to-murder against Mintu, Manoj and one Sachin of Ghazipur. In 2015, police had expunged the names of Manoj and Sachin from the FIR after investgation. However, the attackers’ family had again submitted an application in 2017 in a Ghaziabad court to include Manoj and Sachin in the FIR. It was for the hearing of this case on Wednesday that Manoj, Mintu and Nagender had arrived in Ghaziabad.
 
 Police said most of the assailants belong to Ghazipur and  . “We have identified some assailants on the basis of information provided to us by the victims. The attack was definitely a fallout of their old enmity over a parking contract row. Further inquiries are underway,” SSP, Ghaziabad, Hari Narayan Singh told TOI.
 
