His action speaks louder than words, literally. And   knows it. Considered the quintessential action hero, he debuted in B-Town with a negative lead in 'Force' and went on to explore the South industry. And when he returned to Bollywood, he did so with a bang in 'Commando: A One Man Army', which redefined action space in Hindi cinema. Three years since, Vidyut is hoping its sequel, '  2: The Black Money Trail', will supersede the benchmark the first film set. In a no-holds-barred interview, the actor speaks passionately about martial arts and performing jaw-dropping stunt scenes, nepotism in the industry and why he considers no one competition…

 
 
 We make sequels when we enjoy working on the concept. Of course, financial viability is also taken into account. When we decided to make 'Commando 2', we knew that we had to come up with something phenomenal because the first film had set the bar high as far as action scenes were concerned. And that was a huge challenge. Now, audiences are aware of international cinema and watch newer things online. So, it took us a while to come up with a product that would interest them. Nothing you see in 'Commando 2' has been a part of its prequel. In the first film, I’ve done a somersault in front of a moving car. And for this, we’ve done an intense sequence in which I go under the car. And trust me, it’s very, very scary. There were no stunt doubles, no safety cables and we didn’t use a fake car. It’s all very real and I could have scraped my face. But we practised every scene before we shot it, and our hard work has paid off. The film’s teaser has been received well, and the stunt scenes are being appreciated. So we know we are on the right path.
 
 
 
 I have a strong foundation in Kalaripayattu and have been training in this traditional martial art form since childhood. With Kalari as focus, we’ve tried a few permutations and combinations to come up with some exciting stunt scenes. These days, people speak about Kung Fu and Jiu-jitsu and as if these are their dad’s property. I find it funny when people say that they’ve trained in a particular martial art form for two months to make it look authentic on screen. How can anyone master martial arts in just two months? You can pass off as an expert only on the celluloid.
 
 
 
 I come from a non-filmi background and for me, it’s most important to prove my caliber to everyone, again and again. When you come with a bang, set a benchmark of sorts for action, it becomes important to rise above your achievements. We are probably the first to perform racy stunts without cables. We’ve received messages from the best international action directors and top-rated acrobats lauding us for the effort we’ve put in. The competition is not with any other film, but with the best in the world of action.
 
 
 
 I am not a star kid. I don’t have a dad who is a producer, actor or a director. I’ve had very little openings, I get very little space to make my mark, and I have to use it to my advantage (laughs). According to me, two of the biggest, fittest action stars in the world are   and  . I’m 5’11, Jackie is 5’8 and Tony is 5’5.5. The challenge is that I have to do all these stunt scenes despite my tall frame. This challenge motivates me.
 
 
 
 Deven had become a star before most of us had even imagined what stardom was. If you are a good martial artiste, you can be good at Kalaripayattu, Kung Fu or Jiu-jitsu. Similarly, if you are a good actor, you can be a good comic actor or a good character actor. And Deven is a damn good actor and a director.
 
 
 
 It’s difficult, especially when the roles you are offered is not what you want to do. There’s nepotism in the industry, and so, it’s difficult to say ‘no’. But the ‘no’s are what will make you who you are. I can say I am one of the few actors who have three big releases this year – 'Commando 2', 'Yaara' and 'Baadshaho'.
 
 
 
 I’m a good martial artiste and I have great agility. I can dance well. Bas mauka nahi de rahe hain (laughs). But no, I don’t have a problem being called the action hero because that’s an image I love. I’ve done a variety of roles in Bollywood and even in the South industry. I started out with a negative role here (Force), but even that had a heroic touch. I believe that I will be good in whatever I do.
 
 
 
 I have never had a bad equation with any of my co-stars. I don’t step on other’s shoes or try to show I am better than them. I’m just cool in mine! Besides, most actors can’t do half of what I do. I might sound arrogant, but that’s the truth. My competition is with the rising sun. For the past 32 years, I’ve never been beaten by the sun; I am always up before it rises. When you compete with sun, you don’t compete with others.
 
 
 
 Like I said before, I’ve come from a non-filmy background, and to be known as the action hero of the new generation is a huge thing. What else can I ask for? If I get greedy, I will be stupid.
 
 
 
 I am not a teetotaller. I love drinking a glass of wine when I want to. I don’t understand when people say that ‘I am disciplined’. If I have worked hard, I deserve to indulge. Yes, excess of everything is bad. When I train, I train like a maniac. When I party, I party like one. Bad habit is when you train in the ring for 20 hours a day, but don’t do anything when you see a girl getting teased. I know so many people who have great bodies, but when it comes to protecting and standing up for others, they don’t do anything.
 
 
 
 I have a lot of free time and can happily teach a few techniques to whoever is interested. But self-defence can’t be taught in a day, it has to be ingrained in you. You need to be aware of yourself and your surroundings. That’s the first rule and I believe that women have it in them.
 
  
  
 
