PATNA: The Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) students of   (BIT-P) continued their protest and kept the campus locked for the second day on Tuesday demanding renewal of the   (COA) affiliation and   recognition to their course. 

 The agitating students said the COA affiliation expired in 2015 and the authorities concerned did not bother to renew it. The council had extended the affiliation till 2016 as an emergency case. The COA tag is important for the architecture students to get training with prominent firms, they said.
 
 A first year architecture student said they were kept in dark about the affiliation of the course during admission in 2016. “Now, we have come to know that the course is not even recognized by the   (UGC). We spend Rs1.45 lakh per semester. What’s the use of spending so much money when we cannot even get the number code from COA to get training in any architecture firm. Our degree will not be acceptable by other universities,” he said.
 
 The COA grants licence to architecture students after they complete their final (fifth) year study. “We will not allow the institute to function until our demand is fulfilled. The administration gambled with our future. Our exams will begin next month,” said a final year student.
 
 Some students, who broke down during the protest, were consoled by others and the teachers of their department. Another final year student said, “The institute cheated us and played with our future. Authorities are not paying any attention to our problem and they will easily get away with it. It’s we who will suffer.”
 
 The students have also written to COA, UGC, BIT-Mesra (Ranchi) administration and the ministry of human resource development regarding their problems.
 
 Meanwhile, BIT-Mesra cancelled the convocation ceremony scheduled for March 29. BIT-Mesra (Patna campus) director S P Lal said the university was trying its best to get COA affiliation. “We are having meetings with the UGC officials to get recognition. We can’t say when this problem will be resolved, but we are trying our best. We are concerned about the students’ future,” Lal said.
 
 The ongoing agitation is also creating problems for the students of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) as some of its departments run on the same campus. “We support their protest and sympathize with them. All the gates were locked because of protest. It causes little difficulties for us as we have to take the long route to go to the classes,” a CUSB student said.
 
