NOIDA: Two Bisada residents, among the 18 arrested and facing trial for murdering a Muslim man on suspicion of cow slaughter in Dadri in September 2015, got bail from Allahabad high court on Thursday. 

 In the Greater Noida trial court, meanwhile, charges are yet to be framed against the suspects in the case. The next hearing at the Surajpur fast track court is on April 26. 
 
 Arun, one of the accused, is a veterinarian, and was allegedly the first to "identify" meat found outside victim  's house as beef. 
 
 Though technically not the first bail in the case - three minor suspects were allowed to walk out last year - family members of the other suspects are hopeful they too will get some relief.
 
 Both Arun (30) and 25-year-old Puneet, the other suspect who got bail, are lodged in Greater Noida's Luksar jail. Their counsel   told TOI, "Honourable Justice U C Shrivastava granted them bail. We will get them released from jail once we receive the order's copy," he said. 
 
 Sanjay Rana, father of Vishal, one of the main suspects in the case, said the previous government had turned a deaf ear to their grievances. "The previous (Samajwadi Party) government had taken one-sided measures in the entire incident. We are happy that the two have been released. We will now move bail applications for other accused," he said.
 
 Rana said villagers will also press for the arrest of Akhlaq's family members on charges of cow slaughter. An FIR was lodged against Akhlaq, his wife Ikraman, mother  , brother  , daughter Shaishta, son Danish, and Sona, wife of his brother Jafaruddin, last July. 
 
 Police had initially registered an FIR against 10 named and five unnamed persons for murdering Akhlaq on the night of September 28, 2015 in Bisada. On December 22, 2015, a chargesheet was filed against 15 persons for rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), voluntarily causing hurt (323), murder (302), attempt to murder (307), breach of peace (504), criminal intimidation (506), mischief (427) and trespassing (458) of the IPC. 
 
