PUNE:   owns a budget   on  , and is never short of customers, particularly on weekends. 

 While Wasim’s customers, mostly students, reduced slightly  , the point-of-sale (PoS) terminal he used to accept credit and debit card payments helped him cope with the lean period. 
 
 Nearly three months after the government’s move to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in a bid to curb black money, business is mostly back to normal, he says. Moreover, he says, he has had to use the PoS machine much less with every passing day.
 
 “Just after notebandi, most customers started using cards to pay. Other shop owners also used my terminal to do transactions, since their terminals had not arrived till then. I would guess around 60% of customers did card payments. But over the past month, the currency situation has improved, and cash has returned to people. Over the past few weeks, most of my customers have paid me in cash. In January, about 65% to 70% of all payments I received were in the form of cash,” Wasim says.
 
 Most other business owners on FC Road agree. The remonetisation is taking some of the fizz out of what was touted to be a “cashless” stretch of road.
 
 While some establishments on this stretch already used cashless payment platforms, after demonetisation, many more embraced mobile wallets and applied for PoS terminals at various banks.
 
 Even traditionally cash-only popular establishments, like Vaishali and Roopali eateries, started accepting debit and credit cards. 
 
 A part of the embrace was also driven by campaigns by Bharatiya Janata Party for a “cashless” FC Road.
 
 “We had applied for a card terminal in December and received it on January 11. This is the first time we are accepting cards. While people are paying by card, about 60% transactions are still in cash. We accept card payments only for bills above Rs 100,” said KN Shetty of Roopali restaurant.
 
 A few other new users, however, say that card and cash payments are more or less equal in volume and amount.
 
