NASHIK: The state government has decided to form district-level committees to audit deaths of   in ashram schools to identify the cause and take corrective measures. 

 The state government resolution dated December 27 comes in the wake of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by   of Pune-based   (NRCO) in the Bombay high court. The court rapped the state government for the neglect in maintaining infrastructure and basic facilities at the ashram schools.
 
 There have been a large number of cases, in which, tribal students admitted to government-run and government-aided ashram schools have died due to snake bites, drowned in wells, lakes and rivers and due to accidents. 
 
 “In order to get to the root of the deaths, the government has now decided to audit every death of tribal student and identify the issues responsible for the demise. This will further help in finding out a solution,” a senior official from tribal development commissionerate said.
 
 The committee will have district superintendent of police, civil surgeon, health officer as its members and the respective project officer will be the member secretary of the committee. 
 
 The government has also decided to form  , which will be headed by the project officer with tehsildar as the member and taluka medical officer as the member secretary. They will review each incident. 
 
 “The teams will have to visit the spot of the death of the tribal student in the ashram school within 24 hours of the incident and file a report. This Emergency Review Team will submit its report to the district committee auditing the deaths of tribal students. Besides, there is a third group of socio-medical team that will figure out the issues behind the death and submit the details to the emergency review teams,” the officer said. 
 
 On the government decision, Talpe said, “This was utmost required in cases of death of tribal students where none of officers’ responsible were serious. The officers would only conduct some business for the sake of it and brush the aside. The ashram schools are in a bad shape and that is the reason that I filed the PIL.” 
 
 Talpe added that there were a large number of committees formed till date, but almost all the time, the recommendations were simply put aside or not taken seriously. “The district level inspection carried out by collectors has blown the lid over the state of affairs in the tribal development department,” he said. 
 
 
