PATNA: The Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR), the only reserved forest area for the big cats in Bihar, is likely to get around 10 elephants from Karnataka. Incidentally, there is only one elephant, Rupa, in VTR.   State forest department director (ecology) R B Singh said on Tuesday the elephants would not be purchased or exchanged for other animals. “We have requested Karnataka government to give us a few elephants as they have good number of them in their forests. Our team had recently seen their elephants and we are trying to finalize the transfer shortly,” Singh told TOI.    VTR officials said elephants are primarily used in tiger reserves for patrolling and rescue purposes. Rupa, that mostly resides in Madanpur range of VTR, is also used by forest rangers for patrolling purposes.    Divisional forest officer, VTR-1, Gaurav Jha said three elephants were sent by Nepal government during the recent floods, which helped in rescuing seven rhinos. “Elephants are very helpful in patrolling in hilly and other areas where vehicles can’t go. Besides, elephants are extensively used in reserved forest areas for rescue of wild animals, including tigers,” Gaurav said and added: “Trained elephants are quite helpful in capturing stray tigers because experts, who tranquillize the animal before catching it, can go very near to the tigers while riding an elephant as its height allows them to aim them in a better way.”    Forest department officials said the ideal number of elephants for patrolling purposes as per the geographical expanse of VTR should be 16, but Karnataka government is willing to offer maximum 10 jumbos.    VTR is 289km north of Patna in the Tarai region of the Himalayas, extending to Royal Chitwan National Park and Parsa Wildlife Sanctuary in Nepal on its north and Uttar Pradesh in the west.    The number of big cats in VTR is likely to surge up to 40 as per a recent census conducted by forest department. The third annual VTR census was completed in March and the final report is still awaited. The count of tigers was 28 as per the last census conducted in 2014.