AURANGABAD: Commercial sex workers (CSWs) in   have been deprived of the fee-waiver scheme of   as they do not have any identity cards issued by the state to prove their profession, which is a requirement for the scheme.

 The national open university is offering 100% fee waiver to CSWs for all the 150 courses it offers at blanket level since the recent past. Masood  , senior regional director of IGNOU, said on Thursday that there were technical difficulties in identifying those engaged in the flesh trade. “As far as Maharashtra is concerned, CSWs do not have any official identity cards issued to them and therefore we cannot identify them for extending the benefit of fee waiver scheme,“ he said.
 
 Parveez said pursuing education would help sex workers in getting into the mainstream of society as a part of rehabilitation. “Having certain qualifications would make the rehabilitation process of CSWs a real game-changer,“ he said. “Distance learning is beneficial for CSWs because they need not go to educational institutions, where they may find it uncomfortable due to taboos attached to the profession,“ said Parveez.
 
 S Saunand, assistant regional director of IGNOU, said the issue has been recently brought to the notice of the state government.
 
 “We have communicated with the state social welfare department about the difficulties being faced by CSWs in availing of the fee waiver benefit. While we will follow-up the issue with the state government, certain advocacy on the issue can produce the desired results.“ As a part of the laid down procedure, CSWs can enrol for preparatory programme as an entry to graduation. Anyone aged 18 years and above can take admission to this course by submitting age proof. IGNOU authorities said that a few centres in Maharashtra had tried offering free courses to sex workers but technical issues cropped up.
 
  , who runs a support and advocacy group for CSWs from the red-light area of Pune, said the state government should address the issue as there are 10,000 CSWs in the state.
 
