CHENNAI: The Department of Central Instrumentation and Services Laboratory in the   has been offering MSc, M Phil and PhD courses in scientific instrumentation for more than three decades. 

 It has not yet been recognised as an academic department, however, leading to academic and administrative hurdles, say professors.
 
 Professors say this is a classic case of bureaucratic delays in the university as the senate has already discussed the matter and resolved to place it before the syndicate. "But this has not happened for the past one year," a syndicate member said.
 
 In Saturday's academic council meet, an action taken report regarding the senate resolution stated that records for giving academic council membership to the lab could not be found, members who attended the meeting said. As the laboratory, located on the Guindy campus of the university, is not recognised as a department, its head does not have a place in the senate or academic council, the policy-making bodies of the university. Because of this, the professor heading the laboratory is not empowered to take policy decisions like upgrading the syllabus or course structure, a professor said. 
 
 "He has to approach other department heads to explain the modified decisions which need senate approval," the professor said.
 
 This affects the students who pass out of the lab as well.
 
 For instance, if a candidate with an MPhil in scientific instrumentation programme from Madras university applies for a government job, an equivalence certificate might be needed. This is because other universities offer similar courses but named differently like electronic instrumentation ( ) or instrumentation science ( ). 
 
 "But the head of the instrumentation lab at Madras university is not empowered to sign this certificate. This leads to inordinate delays for the students," a senior professor said.
 
 The current head of the lab, Dr D Nedumaran, who is fighting for the senate representation, is chairman of board of examiners and also serves as chairman of board of studies in  .
 
 The laboratory was started as a   (UGC) project in 1976 and was the nodal centre for procurement and maintenance of all instruments which were used in the other labs of the university. 
 
 The Tamil Nadu government later took over its funding. With the passage of time, however, the concept of central instrumentation was diluted and maintenance offers for the laboratory began to dry up as other departments started to take care of their instruments, a senior professor said. 
 
 
