CHANDIGARH: Three days after TOI reported embarrassing errors in the websites of   in Chandigarh, the   director of school education ( ) set deadlines for district education officers and principals to take corrective action.

 TOI had reported on Thursday that the websites of government schools in the city were taking visitors to shopping websites and that some schools, including those up to the senior secondary level, did not even own domain names. To remedy these two problems, DSE Rubinderjit Singh Brar set September 22 as a deadline for district education officers (DEOs) to collect compliance reports from all schools and submit them to him; and to ensure that all government schools have valid, updated websites by September 30.
 
 Brar confirmed this with TOI. Links of almost 12 schools were removed from the website of the education department on Friday, a day after TOI had highlighted how clicking on them opened shopping portals.
 
 The letter sent to the DEO read: “It has been observed that some government schools of UT Chandigarh have changed the domain name/URL of their websites without updating information to this office. Due to this, old website names were existing on the departmental website and which created confusion and inconvenience for public (SIC).”
 
 On Friday, TOI had also reported that though 12 links were removed, those of 34 other government schools showing ‘network error or access denied’ were not changed. Also, 12 government high schools, model and non-models, continue not to have a website, even though the   has made it mandatory for all affiliated schools to have a website.
 
 The letter further read: “It has also been observed that some of the government secondary and government senior secondary schools have yet not developed their school’s official website and some of government schools are not updating their websites on regular intervals (SIC).”
 
 The letter further read: “You are hereby directed to submit a compliance report to this office latest by September 22 regarding the correct domain name of all government schools’ websites and obtain a certificate from the heads of all government schools that they have submitted correct domain name and latest information have been uploaded on their websites…. It shall also be ensured that all government schools have valid and updated websites before September 30.” 
 
 
