AGRA: Over 500 students gathered at   on Wednesday night after receiving a   by two of their fellow students that a family travelling with them in   had allegedly beaten them and threatened to throw them off from the train.

 According to the police, two AMU students, Aadil and Nisar, boarded the Kalka express from Murshidabad on Tuesday night. Both students are doing MBA from Murshidabad campus of AMU. Another passenger, Raju Kumar Vishwas, was also travelling in the same train to Shimla with his wife and child.
 
 
  
 
 On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, there was an altercation between these students and Vishwas, after the students allegedly harassed his wife when she was feeding her child. Vishwas and his wife had then allegedly beaten them. The incident occurred at Dhanbad city of Jharkhand around 12:30 am.
 
 Police said that the students had moved to another compartment and sent the WhatsApp message to their fellow students in Aligarh informing them that they had been beaten by their fellow passengers due to a seat problem. They were also threatened that they would be thrown out of the train. This message was sent on all the WhatsApp groups of AMU students when the train was just 3-4 hours away from Aligarh.
 
 SSP, Rajesh Pandey told TOI that the train was scheduled to reach at 5:30 pm but was late by around 2 and half hours. Students started gathering at Aligarh Railway station demanding action against the mentioned fellow passengers. He immediately informed the SP Railways, Nitin Tewari and requested him to stop the train at Hathras railways station to avoid any untoward incident in Aligarh.
 
 He admitted that nearly 500 students had gathered and anything could happen if the family reached Aligarh. He said both of them have been detained at Hathras railway police and are being questioned.
 
 Aligarh Muslim University Proctor, Mohsin Khan said that he had also received information on the incident and immediately reached the railway station. However, the situation was under control due to proper coordination by the police and administration.
 
