PUNE: Cyber law experts said on Friday that BJP leader Girish Bapat’s   is a clear case of unauthorized access, identity theft and cheating by personation under the Information Technology (IT) Act.

 “It also involves a separate offence under Section 67 of the IT Act relating to publication of obscene photos,” lawyer Gaurav Jachak, who speacialises in crime law cases, said.
 
 “Identity thefts on the internet are a global phenomenon and are difficult to check. However, an affected individual must promptly report the matter to the cyber cell or police and seek steps for removal of such fake profiles/content,” he added.
 
 Cyber law expert   told TOI, “The IT (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules of 2011 mandates an   to take cognizance of any matter which has been marked as a spam by an account holder and remove such spam material within 36 hours of the intimation.” 
 
 Deo said   on social networking sites is a problem faced by many users, particularly the celebrities. 
 
 “When we come across a fake profile, the first step is to report the same to the service provider such as Facebook, Twitter etc. Most of these intermediaries/service providers have facility for reporting and blocking fake profiles.”
 
 “Internet service providers such as Facebook and Twitter are restricted to receiving, storing and transmitting information about individuals to their ‘friends’, ‘subscribers’ and ‘followers’. Such intermediaries merely act as a platform for people to communicate with one another,” Deo said. 
 
 She added, “The Indian government grants intermediaries a conditional safe harbour under the IT Act in the form of the IT (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules of 2011. An intermediary is not liable for any third-party content hosted or made available through such intermediary when its function is limited to providing access to the system; not initiating or selecting the receiver or modifying the content and when the intermediary observes due diligence and abides by the prescribed guidelines.”
 
