MUMBAI: A consumer forum has ruled against an   company that rejected a   claim on the grounds that the driver left the vehicle unlocked while visiting a washroom for a few minutes.

 The forum has ordered the insurance company to pay Rs 5.22 lakh, along with a compensation of Rs 40,000, to the owner of a Skoda   stolen from a heavily secured and guarded Marine Lines building in 2012.
 
 The complaint was submitted before the Central Mumbai District   in 2015 by the owner of the car, Ms Banswara Syntex Limited, against TATA AIG General Insurance Co Ltd. The complaint said that, on May 7, 2012 the car was parked at a parking slot of the company’s director.
 
 The driver of the car slept in the vehicle for the night. The following morning, after the driver returned from a trip to the washroom, he found that the car was not in the parking spot. A complaint was lodged with police and on May 9, 2012, the RTO was informed.
 
 The insurance company was intimated and the claim submitted. However, the insurance company repudiated the claim through a letter dated March 25, 2013 on the grounds that proper care was not taken, and the vehicle was left unattended without locking it. It said that this was a breach of the policy conditions.
 
 The complainant said that the claim was repudiated on the basis of the insurance company investigator’s report. The advocate pointed out that the report said, “It was found that the location is well secured and guarded by a fleet of security persons”.
 
 He further submitted that the investigator report was binding on the insurance company. The forum said that it was a well-settled law that the insurance company could not avoid the report submitted by investigator without proper reason.
 
 While pointing to the investigator’s report, the forum said, “Merely because the vehicle was not locked, it cannot be said that it was left unattended. In the instant complaint before us, the vehicle was parked at the parking place under security. The opponent has wrongly repudiated the claim.”
 
