Due to mutlifactorial reasons, many of us think that being lethargic and out of shape during the golden years of life is absolutely fine. But this is no less than an excuse, proved 58-year-old Kanta Bhudia. She busted all myths about   with growing age and has become an inspiration for many.

 
  Kanta Bhudia
 
 
  109kg
 
 
  25kg
 
 
  I gained weight slowly over the years but I thought that as you get older, you tend to gain weight. I felt that I cannot do anything to shed extra weight. My eating habits were healthy as I avoided fried foods and sweets but I still continued to gain weight.
 
 I tried several diets and enjoyed workout videos on YouTube but after trying them for a few weeks, I always got bored.
 
 I was motivated to lose weight last year when my daughter Chan Vekaria started her   and fitness site. She has lost an incredible amount of weight and has continued to eat healthy and follows her fitness regime regularly.
 
 She made losing weight look so easy that I felt motivated and gave it a go. I also had been diagnosed with diabetes and arthritis, so the extra weight had become more of a burden.
 
 
  For breakfast, I prefer vegetables and fruit smoothies. Initially, it was difficult to prepare it in the morning as I was busy with other household chores. But my daughter advised me to prepare it during the weekends. This became easier as now I just have to grab a pre-packed bag from the fridge and make a smoothie in the morning after yoga.
 
 
  As I am a hard-core vegetarian, I eat salads which contain couscous and quinoa. Sometimes, I eat a bowl of brown rice with some cottage cheese or yogurt. During the weekends, I eat chapati with grated vegetables and healthy seeds. I mix spinach in the flour as it makes chapati healthy and nutritious.
 
 
  I am fond of raw food. I prepare stuffings using different Indian spices and ingredients like desiccated coconut, dates, sesame seeds, and ground nuts. I also use different vegetables for fillings, like bell peppers, tomatoes, okra, and cucumber, which taste delicious with sweet potato or 
 . I also enjoy making different healthy 
 .
 
 
  My weakness is 
  such as 
 (a type of savoury snack). I still indulge in these foods, but now I prepare them fat-free and full of healthy, nutritious ingredients. 
 
 
  Before I started losing weight, I was not able to work out as I was suffering from arthritis. Now I can swim twice a week and I do yoga for an hour, four times a week. Wherever possible, I choose walking instead of driving.
 
 
  Gajar Ka Halwa - Totally fat-free. When I cook this delicious dessert for my guests, they relish it without even realizing that it is fat-free. 
 
 
  I always thought that exercise had to be high-intensity cardio, which was not good for my knees. With the right guidance, I have learnt how to exercise without causing too much stress on my joints.
 
 
  My motivation is the difference I have seen in my health and body since I have started my journey to lose weight. My diabetes medication has been reduced considerably and I my arthritis has become asymptomatic. I feel more energetic and I enjoy playing with my young grandchildren. 
 
 
  Eating healthy does not mean spending hours in the kitchen preparing meals separately. Adapting traditional Indian foods to make them healthier and nutritious means I can cook the same for the whole family. We all are getting healthier together. 
 
 
