MANALI: Bollywood star   has made it clear that his upcoming project Pal Pal Dil Ke Pass’ will have most of the star cast including heroine in lead role from Himachal only and the actors have been finalized after auditions. The actress in lead role hails from Shimla and her father has a hotel in Manali.

 This is for the first time that a Bollywood movie is planned, scripted and will start and end in Himachal, especially in Manali. Sunny is launching his son   with a home production romantic movie. He is camping in Manali for over a year to finalize the locations and actors. The superstar is staying in a cottage at   near Manali. The shooting will start in May.
 
 A close friend of Sunny told TOI that actor opposite to Karan Deol has been finalized is from Himachal only. “Many more actors in film have been taken from locality. A few are local actors while some will face the camera for first time. People will get to see many fresh faces including heroine. Names of actors will be officially disclosed soon,” he said.
 
 Sunny’s love for Manali, where he wanted to own a land to build film city, is known to all. He spends leisurely time here very often. Sources said that he had planned to launch his son from Manali long back. He was searching for locations to shoot the scenes for last two years. However, various locations of Kullu-Manali can be seen in nearly a hundred bollywood movies but the crew members PPDKP claims that all locations in movie will be fresh and never shot before.
 
 Sunny has finalized an old house built with traditional Kullu architectural style at Shaleen village, 8km from Manali, where major part of the movie would be shot. The village is located high on the hillside and offers panoramic view of snow-capped mountain ranges and the lower valley. The house which is expected to belong to actor or actress is under renovation for shooting purpose these days. Sunny had recently visited the village and villagers had gifted him a Kullu cap and celebrated a local festival “Fagli” with him.
 
 Film will create opportunity for many local youths to show their talent. Many locals will get jobs and movie will indirectly promote the rural tourism. Local coordinator for movie, Chandan, said: “All things have been finalized. The shooting will start soon.”
 
