NEW DELHI | MUMBAI: After an almost six-year gap,   has again engaged in comparative  , taking a pot shot at rival  .
 
  PepsiCo’s latest commercial for its lemon drink   appears to belittle rival brand Sprite’s long-standing tagline " " by highlighting the "new clarity" of this generation, for whom "I don’t know" is cooler than “I know.”
  
  With predictions of a scorching summer ahead, soft-drink brands, which depend on the hot season for the bulk of their  , are once again going all out to raise the stakes for market share, said industry experts.
  
 "The fact that it is contrary to existing codes for the category is purely incidental," said Vipul Prakash, PepsiCo’s senior VP -beverages. "Our campaigns have always been rooted in researched, validated consumer insights and the 7UP commercial is no different."
  
  A decade ago, advertising cola wars used to be fought largely on basis of spoofs and brands taking pot shots at each other and some even landed up in court. When Coca-Cola was official cricket World Cup sponsor in 1996, Pepsi hit back with its tagline, ‘Nothing official about it.’
  
  "Spoofs are relevant when the brand’s DNA is aligned to the theme... in other words, the character of the brand should it give the licence to spoof rivals," said Shripad Nadkarni, cofounder of foods startup Fingerlix and former marketing head of Coca-Cola India.
  
  The April-June quarter is crucial for beverage companies, accounting for close to 40 per cent of annual soft drinks sales. In a market where soft drinks sales have been lukewarm for five-six quarters, growing in low single digits, both companies are relying on predictions of a sizzling summer to push demand. Industry officials said lime and lemon drinks are among the fastest-growing segments now, ahead of colas, as the taste resonates with Indian palettes.
  
  After a lull of almost two years, high-decibel ad campaigns have made a comeback across consumer categories ranging from toothpaste and biscuits to even department stores, as companies launch new brands and expect a revival in demand.
  
  The question is whether such aggressive ads work. The cola wars of the 1990s did not help either Coca-Cola or Pepsi — all they did was create excitement, said experts.
  
  "If I were  , I would be worried, but the challenger brand has nothing to lose. The interplay between brands resonated well with youth because it is using intelligence to create the ad and not sheer muscle power," said Alpana Parida, MD of DY Works, a Mumbai-based brand strategy and design firm.
  
  India is an under-served market where advertising traditionally has been directed at consumers and not the competition. This is gradually changing, especially after Patanjali’s strategy to shame the competition in almost every advertisement.
  
  Less than a fortnight ago, Hindustan Unilever dragged dairy major Amul to court over its icecream advertisement that takes a dig at HUL’s Kwality Walls frozen desserts. Six months ago, the Future Group stepped up the offensive with a series of ads that use wordplay to target the three main online marketplaces — Flip the Cart, Snap the Deal and Amaz-Off.
