The  , fuelled by  , may have forced the   into working towards an   on the sport, but many people -sceptics and supporters --wonder if the same set of youngsters would unite to address other contentious, day-to-day issues.

 Against the backdrop of a carnival-like atmosphere opposite the Vivekananda House on Marina, a group of engineering under-graduates, part of the congregation from day one, who spoke to TOI, were bullish about the prospects of `youth power.' The jallikattu episode seems to have become an outlet for repressed emotions, especially over what students say is lack of transparency in government decision-making. “Allocations for education and sportspersons, for example, are announced. But it never trickles down to us,“ says Vishal Chander, a national-level sportsman and computer science student at VIT.“We'll definitely unite for those causes too, this is just the start,“ he added.
 
 His friend B Suriyanaray anan, from Veltech Avadi, echoed the sentiment when he spoke about government schools and the poor condition of buses, the sole mode of transport for students in peri-urban and rural areas.“We have protested for that, but in smaller groups. And we have been labelled rowdies, porukkis (ruffians), or publicity-seekers,“ he said.
 
 The group was clear only home-grown companies should be supported as they would be sensitive to local emotions, like jallikattu.
 
 Student unions could be a way these issues can see a public consciousness, said  , a student of RMK college in Thiruvallur. “But on many occasions it descends into triviality, like fighting over girls or sports. Unions should target substantive issues,“ said Vishal Chander.
 
 Student movements without agenda are likely to fizzle out, said retired justice K Chandru, a student leader in the 1970s. “In Kerala, students are agitating against high fees charged by self-financing colleges. But in Tamil Nadu, students and parents are quietly paying,“ he said.
 
 Critical thought, strategy and organisational strength would be needed for such protests to take on larger issues, he added.
 
