RAJKOT: A higher secondary school teacher in   of Amreli was suspended on Saturday after a video of him beating students in the classroom went viral on  . He was also booked by the police for assaulting students. 

 The teacher was identified as Rajesh Chavda (28) a native of Junagadh. He taught biology in higher secondary division of Shree Kalapi Vinay Mandir High School in Lathi town. He was booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation), based on a complaint filed by class XII student Kunjal Shah (17). 
 
 Sources said following FIR against him, Chavda has gone underground. Several complaints by students have also reached the school management. 
 
 The video on social media shows Chavda thrashing students of class XII in the classroom. Chavda is seen slapping students and hitting them on their back in presence of the entire classroom. 
 
 He is also seen shouting at the students. Chavda had thrashed students on January 23 in the classroom.
 
 The entire episode came to light after the video went viral from Friday night and it angered parents and education community alike.
 
 One of the girl students told media persons, "When one of the boys objected to thrashing Chavda hit him also. We then approached school principal Mansukh Ramani. But he (Chavda) abused even the principal in presence of students. He did not even spare girl students and used abusive language with them."
 
 School principal Ramani said that Chavda had joined the school just 45 days ago. "He used to take leave without informing anyone and used abusive language with students as well as teachers. But when students complained that he had beaten them up, we verified it with CCTV footage from the classroom. It turned out to be true. Hence, he was suspended," said Ramani
 
 The school is managed by Raliyatben Rudabhai Dholakia Charitable Trust in Lathi town.
 
 Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama also took note of the incident and assured strict action against the teacher so that no other teacher would dare to do it again.
 
