Birsa Dasgupta's One is essentially a modern retelling of the eternal conflicts between good and evil. Ronojoy Bose ( ) is an honest police officer whose sole aim in life is to destroy corruption. In his battle against evil, he comes across his arch enemy -Aditya Sen ( ), an unscrupulous businessman whose brutality knows no bounds.As the cat-and-mouse game between the two ensues, there are too many lives at stake. Will good triumph over evil in the end, we asked the director.“The story revolves around two very powerful people who are devoid of emotions. Aditya is an evil genius who aims to be at the numero uno position. On the other hand, Ronojoy, a police officer and a relatively better person, also wants to be on top. Both are the two sides of the same coin and the film is about their tussles, mind games and a lot more,“ said Birsa.CT introduces you to the players of the biggest mind game, One. Read on...Prosenjit Chatterjee: He is the antagonist of the film, Aditya Sen. He is unpredictable, plays mind games and does a lot of talking through his eyes and body language. He's evil to the core but wears the veil of a Padmashree-winning scientist. Though he doesn't commit the crimes himself, he is the mastermind behind all these wrongdoings done by a team working for him.Yash Dasgupta: Ronojoy is an ASP in the state police department, who is a loner with an aim to destroy corruption. He feels that behind petty crimes lie big criminals, who are a threat to society . His mantra is to kill the king in order to warn his subordinates. He collects evidences from every possible source to solve his cases. Ronojoy speaks less and lets his mind do all the talking.Nusrat Jahan: She plays Megha, a cop in love with Ronojoy . She is bubbly and just his opposite.Realising that Ronojoy's only mission in life is to end dishonesty and exploitation from society, she is always there to help him solve his cases.Arjun Chakrabarty: He is inspector Abhijit Ghosh, Ronojoy's friend in personal and professional lives. Abhijit, who is sincere, strong-minded and agile, supports Ronojoy in his mission.
