HYDERABAD: Allaying the fears of  , the   on Monday ruled out any change in the   decided by the   in 1973.

 The high-level committee headed by former CWC chairman AK Bajaj held a meeting at Jalasoudha here on Monday to hear the complaints of Telangana over sharing of Krishna waters. The committee was appointed by Union water resources ministry in December 2016 to hear arguments of Telangana and   on the river water sharing.
 
 Clearing doubts over the possible change of water sharing ratio that might go in favour of Andhra Pradesh, the committee said it has no mandate to change the ratio and assured Telangana that justice will be delivered in the matter.Apart from Bajaj, committee members DK Mehta, RP Pandey , E Pradeep Kumar Shukla, CWC, hydrology , director AN Roy along with Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) chairman SK Haldar, member secretary Sameer Chatterjee along with senior officials of Telangana attended the meet.
 
 Telangana special chief secretary Shailendra Kumar Joshi made a PowerPoint presentation to the committee wherein he detailed the `injustice' done to the state in the last six decades. He demanded a fair share to Telangana in the Polavaram and Pattiseema projects as per the guidelines.He pointed out that based on the geographical area, cultivation, poverty and other parameters, the state should get 450 tmc ft water from Krishna, while in reality , it was given only 299 tmc ft at the time of the state bifurcation.
 
 “Telangana is seeking its rightful share in the allocation of Krishna water. At the time of bifurcation, the ratio of sharing of Krishna water was earmarked by erstwhile AP as 299:512 tmc ft between present Telangana and Andhra Pradesh respectively . Even this share is contested by the successor of Andhra Pradesh now,“ SK Joshi told TOI.
 
 Raising objection over naming Jurala as joint project, the Telangana government demanded making Pulichintala and Sunkesula as joint projects along with Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar. Irrigation advisor R Vidyasagar Rao said that the committee should examine the issue of water diversion from Godavari and rectify the anomalies. “Since Central Water Commission (CWC) cleared the Polavaram project, 45 rmc ft can be utilized under Nagarjunasagar project in Krishna basin. Telangana being the successor state is entitled for its rightful share in this water“, pointed the advisor.
 
 
