MALDA: With non-performing assets (NPAs) piling up in nationalized banks, employees of the United Bank of India ( )'s Malda region office resorted to a unique   to recover loans from two well-to-do businessmen on Thursday. After informing them in advance, the employees organized peaceful dharnas outside their houses, attracting attention of neighbours and passers-by. The embarrassed defaulters finally came out and promised to settle their dues by Friday. The employees promised to adopt the same method for other defaulters as well. 

 The UBI's Malda region office is in-charge of all branches in Malda, North and   districts. The regional headquarters also has a staggering   of Rs 134 crore. According to an official, more than 60% of this is owed by rich merchants and affluent entrepreneurs. 
 
 "We served many notices to them but they paid no heed," said UBI chief regional manager A N Roy. Even legal notices weren't of much help. Officials realized that these defaulters could repay their loans easily but were not in the mood to do so. This was when they came up with the idea to strike where it would hurt the most - their social standings.
 
 In the morning, residents of Mangalbari witnessed a unique sight. Smartly-dressed bank officers stood in dharna in front of a well-to-do neighbour's house with placards. On enquiry, they were told that there are two defaulters who owe the bank Rs 60 lakh and Rs 20 lakh respectively. One of them owns a three-storeyed house, three rice mills and multiple vehicles. 
 
 "Within an hour the businessman emerged and assured us that he would repay his loan on Friday. The issue that had been dragging on for nearly a year, was resolved within an hour. After the assurance, we left the spot," a bank officer said. The results were the same outside the other defaulter's house as well.
 
 "We shall continue to adopt this method with other defaulters," Roy added. While some bank officials said that similar methods have been adopted in the past in south Bengal, one of them said that financial institutions are going through severe financial crisis and have to adopt new strategies. "We aren't receiving the kind of support from the government like before. In fact, we have got our backs against the wall and won't hesitate to go to any length to recover NPAs," he said.
 
