RAJKOT/SURAT: The   across   since July 14 has claimed 18 lives till date with seven reported in the 24 hours ending Tuesday evening.

 While three persons died after being struck by lightning in Ahmedabad and one in Morbi, two drowned in Jamnagar on Tuesday. Rescuers also fished out the body of ND Jadeja, the taluka development officer of Aliya Bada village near Jamnagar, who was missing since July 15, said AJ Shah, director, relief operations,
 
 Search was on for three others who were swept away along with Jadeja in Ruparel river. All four were travelling in a car.
 
 A husband-wife duo working as construction labourers were struck by lightning in Shilaj area of Ahmedabad. The deceased, Ramsinh Gautam (26) and Sushila Gautam (24), died on the spot outside their shanty. Another 18-year-old girl met a similar death in Sanand when she was working in a farm.
 
 Southern Gujarat districts of Valsad, Navsari and Surat reeled under rain fury that threw normal life out of gear.
 
 All major roads except National Highway and state highways were inundated in Navsari district consequent upon which the local administration decided to keep the schools closed for the day as a precautionary measure. Waters of Ambika river entered many houses of   of Navsari district.
 
 Very heavy rains overnight in Valsad town and Pardi taluka in Valsad district led to waterlogging at many places necessitating the need to keep fire services and National Disaster Management (NDM) teams on standby by the local administration.
 
 Traffic came to a standstill as 14 interior roads in Valsad district that were inundated. Two-wheeler riders found it difficult to wade through the flowing water on the roads.
 
 Valsad district collector C R Kharsan said, “Waters had receded by afternoon in Valsad town but many roads have developed huge potholes. Four causeways in Kaprada and Dharampur that were damaged are being repaired on a war footing.” Auranga river is flowing 10 feet below the danger mark.
 
 Navsari district collector Ravi Arora said, “Rain waters gushed into 60 houses in Billimora town. We are opening the closed drainage lines for passage of water.”
 
 The district administration in Surendranagar, Jamnagar and Kutch began cleaning exercise in the flood-affected villages and also simultaneously distributed medicines and chlorine tablets.
 
 Several trains including Mumbai-Ahmedabad and Pune-Ahmedabad Duronto trains were running late by over four hours. Others were either diverted or terminated at the nearby station.
 
 
