MUMBAI: A 27-year-old   employed with an international airlines has been booked for allegedly stealing silver ornaments worth over Rs 70,000 from a jewellery store in T2 at the   on two occasions. Last week, the airhostess, wholives in Mazgaon, approached the Dindoshi sessions court and secured   on a surety of Rs 25,000. Her lawyer informed additional sessions judge V D Nimbalkar that she had tried to return the valuables to the  , but they refused to accept it. 

 The jewellery store registered the   against the airhostess after it found discrepancies in its sales account while auditing the valuables in the second week of February. The store officials went through the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage and saw that the Mazgaon resident had nicked the jewellery. Police said she had stolen jewellery from the store in December and again in January.
 
 Levying the conditions for the interim relief, the court, last week, said the air hostess should attend the Sahar police station as and when called by the investigating officer for further investigations. The court also said that she should not tamper with the evidence, threaten prosecution witnesses or leave the jurisdiction of the court without prior permission.
 
 The prosecution told the court that the FIR was registered on the basis of CCTV footage and subsequent investigations. The public prosecutor added that the investigating officer was ready to receive the stolen articles from the woman if she brought them before the police station again. 
 
 The court said that while the woman had not denied the alleged crime, she has claimed that it was unintentional. The court said this aspect could only be decided at the time of trial. “At present, the applicant is ready to produce the stolen articles and the investigation officer is ready to receive them. In such facts, interim protection needs to be granted to the applicant from arrest,” the court had said last week.
 
 On Tuesday, the court extended the interim relief granted to the airhostess. Sahar police senior inspector B T Mukhedkar told TOI that they are probing the case, but refused to divulge details as the airhostess has sought anticipatory bail.
 
 
