Puducherry:   on Monday took into five-day custody a West Bengal woman and her lover, who were arrested on charges of murdering her husband for his Rs two crore life insurance money.

 The woman was identified as Jayanthi Prasad, mother of two, and her lover Babu alias Sheik Peer Mohammed, 36, assistant to her industrialist-husband Vivek Prasad. They attempted to divert police by enacting a drama that Prasad committed suicide. Babu murdered Prasad following instructions from Jayanthi and buried the body at an under-construction packaged water bottling unit owned by Prasad.
 
 Superintendent of police (north) Rachna Singh said they had “enough evidence” to prove that Jayanthi was the mastermind behind the murder and her lover executed the crime. “She wanted to grab the family properties and obtain Prasad’s Rs two crore life insurance money by eliminating him and live with her lover Babu. We arrested her only after unearthing enough scientific evidence to prove their complicity,” Singh said.
 
 Prasad hailing from a well-to-do family stopped his marriage to another woman just before the auspicious hour to disclose to his family members that he was in love with Jayanthi. His younger brother married the jilted bride after Vivek’s revelations. Prasad later married Jayanthi without the consent of his parents.
 
 Police said Prasad decided to move out of West Bengal after he came to know about the illicit relationship between his wife and his assistant. He settled with his wife and two sons, aged nine and 10 years, at Reddiarpalayam in Puducherry almost a year ago. He bought an apartment in his wife and his name.
 
 He purchased a vast stretch of land at Poothurai village in Villupuram district to establish packaged water bottling unit. He hired another assistant Babu from Sultanpet for his fluent knowledge of Hindi and Tamil within a few days of settling in Puducherry. Differences of opinion cropped up between him and his wife again after he learnt that Jayanthi was having an affair with Babu.
 
 “Jayanthi was not keen on seeking a divorce as she was planning to grab her husband’s property,” said Singh.
 
 Jayanthi and Babu hatched a plan to murder Prasad when he visited his upcoming bottling unit on May 1. “Babu stabbed Prasad in the neck with a long knife as soon as he reached the site. Prasad died instantly. Babu later called mason Ganapathy seeking his help to dispose the body. But when the mason refused, he wrapped the body and buried it in a septic tank. He abandoned Prasad’s expensive Benelli bike (worth Rs five lakh) near the new light house to create an impression that he committed suicide by jumping into the sea,” Singh said.
 
 The following day Babu, dressed in Prasad’s t-shirt and wearing his helmet, took Jayanthi and the two children, aged nine and 10 years, on another bike (Vespa) owned by the murdered man. He dropped the two children at his house and later came to the beach with Jayanthi. They threw the helmet and Prasad’s shoes into the sea, police said, claiming to have pieced together the case.
 
 
