NAGPUR: As the city gets set to observe   on Tuesday, the preparations are all done for the two shobhayatras taken out by   at   and Pashchim Nagpur Nagrik Mandal, Ram Nagar.

 In its 44th year, the Paschim Nagpur yatra will begin at 5pm after the chief minister Devendra Fadnavis offers puja. He has been doing so since the time he became the mayor. 
 
 Last year, the mandir acquired three new idols of Ram, Sita and Laxman which are now part of the procession. “These are utsav murtis as we can’t move the idols consecrated in the temple,” said Jayant Apte, a member of the temple management committee and the pioneer of the shobhayatra that started in 1973 on a small scale with three floats.
 
 The Palki, which bears a pair of wooden footwear also called padukas, are placed in the palanquin carried by six people around the 8km route that takes six hours to complete. The procession moves from Ram Nagar square to Laxmi Bhuvan square, Shankar Nagar, Bajaj Nagar, Shradhhanandpeth, Abhyankar Nagar and back. The entire path will be illuminated with coloured lights and loudspeakers will be put up from Ram Nagar to Shankar Nagar square from morning.
 
 “’This year at 5pm, the chief minister along with guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and Rajya Sabha member Ajay Sancheti will perform puja of the palanquin and utsav murtis kept on a float,” secretary of the temple Rajiv Kalele informed. 
 
 The temple has 150 volunteers who help organize the entire shobhayatra. “The scale of the yatra has been increasing every year and now devotees expect us to maintain these levels,” says Kalele who puts the budget of the entire procession at Rs 15 lakh and says it requires months of preparations. “The ban on putting up arches has impacted our donations as previously sponsors would contribute as their banners were displayed on these arches,” the secretary adds.
 
 This year there would be 44 floats, many of them bearing social messages. “The theme is Ram Katha as the life of Lord Ram is a fine example of social engineering,” Kalele says. Messages like organ donation and worship of parents will be aired. Satya Sai Seva Samiti will sing bhajans at the temple in the noon.
 
 At the Poddareshwar Ram Mandir, where the shobhayatra commences one hour earlier at 4pm with the offering of prayers by the mayor,   will be celebrated with blowing of conch, bhajan and aarti at 12 noon at the mandir.
 
 The CM along with guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and Rajya Sabha member Ajay Sancheti will perform puja of the palanquin 
 
 The ban on putting up arches has impacted our donations as previously sponsors would contribute as their banners were displayed on these arches. 
 
