Patiala: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Kirpal Singh Badungar on Thursday wrote a letter to all MPs to pressurise the Centre and the Punjab government to exempt GST on offerings made for provision of langar (community kitchen) service run by all religions.

 Earlier, Badungar had written to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh demanding exemption from GST on purchases made by it for langar in the gurdwaras managed by it as the new tax had put an extra burden of Rs 10 crore it. He claimed that if need arose, he would also meet the members of GST council at the Centre.
 
 “The Prime Minister should listen to ‘Mann ki baat’ of the public. Narendra Modi had admitted that Khalsa Panth is a security cover of the nation while Jaitley had maintained that the country would have no existence had the ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur not sacrificed his life. Still there is discrimination with the Sikh community. Not only the gurdwaras but all shrines of other communities should also be given exemption from GST on the offerings for langar,” Badungar said who was in Patiala to attend a religious event at a local gurudwara.
 
 New Delhi: The SIT probing 1984 anti-Sikh riots examined more than 1,000 witnesses in different states, the government told Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of state for home Hansraj Ahir said that the SIT formed by the home ministry had scrutinised records of 293 cases and after scrutiny, a total 60 cases were re-opened for further investigation. Out of these 60 cases, charge-sheet had been filed in four cases while 51 had been closed. Investigations are on in five cases. 
 
 The minister said there was no delay on the part of the SIT in completing the investigation. The records are very old and despite constant follow-up with different agencies, large part of them could not be traced. “As the records are very old, they are also in very bad shape. Several records are in Urdu language, which had to be translated. Several complainants and witnesses who had to be examined could be located with great difficulty as they had shifted their homes, some were migrated to foreign countries,” he said. SIT has published public notices in 11 newspapers.
 
 
