HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has finalised the modalities of implementing a two-tier administration system in the state. Following the cabinet's decision to abolish the zonal system, chief secretary   has held series of meetings with employee associations and senior IAS officers to work out out the promotion formula for state and district level posts. Senior IAS officer and animal husbandry special chief secretary   headed the committee comprising fellow IAS officers Adhar Sinha, Rajeswar Tiwari and N  . The committee submitted a detailed report to the chief secretary two days ago in which it has recommended upgrading 600 zonal and multi-zonal posts to the state level. 

 The committee also recommended shifting 162 posts in the rank of lower dispatch clerk (LDC), record assistant and teacher to the district cadre. Distribution of zonal and multi-zonal posts between state and district cadres has been completed and now the   is under the examination of the chief secretary. "We have to strike a balance between job opportunities to local youth and effective administration set-up at the state and district level. If we retain posts of doctors, engineers, artists in the district level, we may not get eligible people for all districts. Similarly, jobs with minimum education qualifications should be kept in district level to provide more jobs to locals," Telangana chief secretary SP Singh told TOI. 
 
 Several employees' unions are demanding that 80% of the promotion posts be kept for the district cadre and 20% to the state cadre to give more access to locals in the state level posts. But the state administration is fearing that this would lead to dearth of efficient staff. The Suresh Chanda committee has also recommended 80% quota for the district cadre in the promotion quota for the state level cadre posts. "The very objective of the Presidential Order is to give jobs to locals. The abolition of zonal system should not deprive them jobs. But the posts in medical and health, animal husbandry, information technology and culture departments are a matter of concern as there is a shortage of qualified people," special chief secretary Chanda said.
 
