CHENNAI: Investigators from the   anti-terror squad and   has launched a hunt for three businessmen including the owner of a jewellery outlet who they believe were accomplices of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) suspect Mohammed Iqbal.

 Police arrested Iqbal, 32, of Mylapore, for collecting and transferring funds to ISIS via  .
 
 The Rajasthan police interrogated Iqbal, who investigators have now detained at the Kotturpuram police station. They arrested Iqbal based on the confession of Jameel Ahmed and produced him before a magistrate's court in Jaipur.
 
 During questioning, Iqbal told investigators that he also sent cash to ISIS in Chinese currency - a total of 5,000 renminbi or the equivalent of almost 50,000 - through Tausif, 30, who runs a cellphone business in Triplicane.
 
 "Iqbal claimed that he transferred the money on the instructions of senior ISIS leader Abu Saad al-Karbouli, who Iraqi officials believe they killed last year in an attack targeting the chief of the militant group, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi," an investigating officer said.
 
 "Iqbal approached an agent in the city with a plan to travel to Iran last year and paid him a sum in euros from his account in a Karur Vysya Bank branch for the trip," he said. "He later put off the journey due to health problems and did visit the consulate general of Iran in Hyderabad as he planned. He used the email ID iqb1984@yahoo.com."
 
 Iqbal told police that he sent money to Jameel Ahmed through his associates Karimullah and Riay of Mannadi, Chennai. Ahmed transferred the cash to ISIS headquarters in Syria. The suspects Iqbal fingered have gone missing from their homes and their places of work, investigators said.
 
 Intelligence Bureau (IB) sleuths nabbed Iqbal with 30-year-old Jameel (an associate not linked to the ISIS cash transactions), Jahabuddin, 55, and Nizamuddin, 45, while they were smuggling gold bars by bus from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh to Chennai at 7am on February 4.
 The IB seized 20 gold bars weighing 3.360kg and cash worth 1 crore from them and handed them over to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.
 The IB officers intercepted the bus near Arambakkam in Tiruvallur district on a specific tip.They examined the four men and, checking their baggage, found the gold bars. The suspects said they smuggled the gold to Tamil Nadu from the northeast.
 
