BENGALURU: The   (TOP) Scheme for the 2016 Rio   was launched barley a year-and-half before the Games. Now, the central government is trying to get the timing and purpose of the scheme right. Speaking to TOI, sports minister   revealed that the   will be inclusive with long-term goals spanning over the next three Olympics. Excerpts...

 
 
 
 Although we have not formally announced the names of the members of the task force, we have formalized everything. The process of setting up the task force took time because we were holding meeting with various stakeholders ­ the federations, Olympians, Dhronacharya awardees and state sports ministers. We will announce the list shortly.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, the Top Scheme will be launched this month. We are working towards 2020, 2024 and 2028 Olympics apart from major events like the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games. We had a meeting of state sports ministers and identified specific state to can nurture sports. For boxing, Haryana and Manipur have been identified and likewise, Hyderabad for badminton and Sonipat for wrestling.
 
 
 
 
 Most likely on January 21, we will launch a sports talent search portal through which any talented sportsperson from the age of 8-10 years can upload a video or bio data. Officials at various SAI centres will screen them and deserving people will be absorbed into SAI. Also, we will fix the responsibilities of the federations as well because they are the ones who are picking the teams and recommending coaches as well.
 
 
 
 
 We want to inter into PPP with prominent sportspersons with academies like P Gopichand, Ashwini Nachappa, Mary Kom and PT Usha. We have also met the PSU's and asked them to allot more budget for sports. We are also in the process of strengthening the national sports funds for sports.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, we usually hired coaches recommended by federations, but now we have started advertising for foreign coaches so that there are options and we select the best... We also have very good Indian coaches as well. In fact, there is a clause in the every foreign coach's contract that they have to train Indian coaches for a specified period, but what we need to do now is that we have to ensure it is put into practice.
 
 
 
 
 We are going to review our national sports development code so that federations will have guidelines which will have to be followed. Although we respect the charter of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the autonomy of the IOA, they also have accountability and transparent.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, we want the states to comply with the sports code. When we met the federations, one of the points which were agreed upon is that the state associations will also follow the code.
 
