Punjab has a history of mergers, pre-election coalitions, and seat adjustments amongst contesting political par ties. Interestingly, the Akalis have merged with the Congress in 1937, 1948 and 1956 as well. They formed pre-elections coalitions with the   (BJP) in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012 elections. These pre-election coalitions had their roots in an environment conducive to transfer of votes from one party to another. There are other contestants in electoral politics who are labelled as spoilers. Spoilers are those who have a capacity to make others lose rather than their own win.These spoilers become relevant in constituencies where the difference between the winner and the runner up is lower. It is significant to note that in Punjab between 1997 and 2012 elections, the effective number of parties sharing votes was higher as compared to their share in seats.

 For instance, parties like   (BSP), Shiromani   (Tohra) and People's Party of Punjab (PPP) act as a major spoiler in these elections without winning even a single seat. In 1997, the BSP polled eight per cent of the votes without winning a seat led to the defeat of nine Congress, five Akalis and three BJP candidates. In 2002 elections, the vote share of BSP was around six per cent votes and it led to the defeat of 10 Congress, 15 Akalis and two BJP candidates.In these elections, Akali Dal (Tohra) got around five per cent votes that led to the defeat of seven Akali candidates. Interestingly, in 2007 elec tions, BSP emerged as the main spoiler with only four per cent votes which led to the defeat of 18 Congress and 14 Akali candidates. However, in 2012, there were two main spoilers, i.e. BSP and PPP.BSP and PPP led to the defeat of 22 Congress and 29 SAD candidates. These political groups acted as spoilers for main political parties. The BSP and the PPP acted as wild cards and whereas Akali Dal (Tohra) group spoiled the chances of the Akali Dal (Badal). However, other than political parties, there are rebels and dummy candidates which enter into fray due to factors other than political which may spoil the chances of winning contestants. In Punjab, the rebels from various parties have also played a spoiler's role.
 
 In the 2012 elections, Congress lost 10 seats because of gress lost 10 seats because of these rebels and Akali Dal lost two seats because of their rebel candidates. It can, therefore, be stated that at the micro level the political parties follow the strategy of supporting individual candidates to make the competing parties lose the elections.However, these spoilers, i.e.the political parties, individual rebels and dummy candidates often act as wild cards.
 
 As is evident, the 2017 election shall witness five cornered contest between the Congress, the Akali-BJP, the AAP, the BSP and various fringe groups. The main traditional contestants are the Akali-BJP and the Congress.Like in 2012 elections, PPP worked to the disadvantage of both the main political parties, in 2017 elections AAP may perform the same role.Or will it emerge as third party with sufficient number of seats to become relevant for government formation in hung assembly scenario?
 
 (The author is director ,   (IDC), Chandigarh)
 
