Nagpur: In a big boost for city’s sportspersons, the proposed Sports Authority of India (SAI) regional centre and National Sports Coaching Institute (NSCI) in East Nagpur have been asked to reserve 25% of their total capacity for local students. This is the first instance of such a reservation in India. Also, NMC will get the stadium and premises free of cost for its international and national events. The state government has imposed these two conditions while approving Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) proposal to lease out 140.67 acre to SAI at a nominal rate of Rs1 per annum for 30 years, extendable by another 60 years. The urban development department under chief minister Devendra Fadnavis issued a notification to this effect on Tuesday. Of the 140.67 acre, 28.48 acre is at mouza Wathoda and remaining 112.19 acre at mouza Tarodi (khurd). The area to be given to SAI was 141.51 acre, but approval came for 140.67 acre. SAI executive director (finance and operations) Hira Ballabh told TOI, “Reservation for locals has never been made at any SAI centre in the nation. Under existing government policy, which is followed by SAI, there is no mention of quota for state or city players.” Rani Nighot Dwivedi, member of Nehru Yuva Kendra’s board of governors, who pursuing the project, said the proposal was to keep 25% reservation for students of Nagpur division covering six districts. “According to the usual SAI pattern, 90% seats are reserved for local state players, while 10% are for other state players.” However, the state notification clearly states 25% reservation for students within NMC limits. Thanking union minister Nitin Gadkari and Fadnavis, East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said 25% reservation for city students made sense as NMC was giving land free of cost to SAI. “I had raised the demand with Gadkari and Fadnavis many times,” he said. NMC handed over the land to SAI on April 30 at the bhoomipuja programme. The two conditions were not part of the project proposal. NMC can only propose to lease out its land at nominal rate and the state has power to approve it. Accordingly, NMC submitted a proposal to the state on January 4, where it had inserted the clause making it mandatory for SAI to provide stadium and premises free of cost for its international and national events. The urban development department came up with the condition of 25% reservation while giving the approval. Secretary of Nagpur District Athletics Association Sharad Suryawanshi was delighted about the reservation and said the step will help inculcate a sports culture in the city. “Local students can easily get entry and be groomed into national and international players,” he said. On the status of the project, Dwivedi said a private agency will be appointed to plan and execute the project. “Measurement of land has been completed through city survey office. The state’s public works department has been appointed as nodal agency for executing the project. SAI will transfer the funds to PWD, which will issue tenders and appoint the private agency. First boundary wall will be constructed followed by remaining works,” she said.