CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government’s decision to   a couple of thousand excess teaching and   members from   to various government arts and science, engineering colleges and polytechnics has vertically divided the academic fraternity.

 A section of educationists say it will result in dilution in the quality of academics in government colleges, as many among these professors in Annamalai University were not selected strictly on the basis of   (UGC) guidelines.
 
 Annamalai University in Chidambaram was a private university until 2013 when it was taken over by the state government after it was afflicted with administrative and financial mismanagement and had come under financial stress. Now, the state government has been releasing about Rs 40 crore every month just to pay salaries. There are more than 5,700 excess teaching and non-teaching staff in the university.
 
 A total of 3,170 excess staff were re-deployed a few weeks ago in the first phase. Government is likely to come out with a second batch of re-deployment of excess staff.
 
 Government sources said the decision was taken to increase the productivity of the staff and in the interests of financial prudence. The transfer will be for a period of three years and there would be no impact on the promotion of regular staff in the institutions or the vacancies being filled up through the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB).
 
 Social activist A Narayanan said the move would dilute educational standards and affect rural students in government colleges. “Two wrongs cannot make a right,” he said.
 
 Former professor and economist Venkatesh Athreya said the claim of dilution in educational quality due to the redeployment was not entirely justified. “Many of the appointments, especially in institute of distance education, were made despite the staff not having appropriate qualifications,” he said.
 
 Founder of Aided Colleges Teachers Association (ACTA) A Karunanandan criticised the re-deployment and said surplus staff should be asked to write the government exams for recruitment where they could be given an additional mark for services to Annamalai University. 
 
 Former   vice-chancellor E Balagurusamy questioned the fairness of the move and said the government take-over of the University itself was not correct. “If their qualifications are questionable, then the government should show them the door. Transferring them to other institutions will demoralise the existing staff,” he said.
 
