She may be a rank outsider, but   has slowly and steadily carved a niche for herself in Bollywood. In an industry that’s known for diplomacy, she’s known for her candour. In an interview with BT, the actress gets talking about feminism, friendships, industry dynamics and of course, what the New Year has in store! Excerpts... 

 
 
 It was a year which had to get done and over with. Just in terms of world politics, in terms of the deaths we have seen. We had David Bowie leaving us, we had George Michael and there were so many more tragic stories in 2016.
 
 
 Yeah, in the beginning, I had to find jobs because every month’s rent was a struggle. I didn’t depend on my parents for it. They didn’t have the money; and you know that they were hippies. When I was studying in London, I worked part-time as a waitress. I was teaching drama to kids. I did a lot of odd jobs to pay for my studies. I see it as a healthy struggle. I don’t believe in becoming famous overnight. There’s struggle regardless of the level you are at in your career. Right now, my struggle is to break stereotypes.
 
 
 I think you’re stereotyped after every film. Post 'Dev D', I was only offered bold roles. Similarly, after ' ', I was offered roles where I had to play differently-abled people. So, no matter what type of film you work in, people tend to slot you. It’s up to an actor to consciously break that image and challenge themselves. Choosing different kinds of scripts and creating my own work through theatre is my way of dealing with it. I write because I don’t want to be stuck doing the same thing. 
 
 
 I was surprised by how actually everyone gets along quite well and most of these stereotypes are not true. We have this impression that everyone’s having catfights here. A lot of this is PR-created. It’s more business-oriented than personal. I was surprised by how much energy people in the industry have; they work hard and party harder. Somehow, everyone manages to work and socialise, too. I’m from a small town where the pace of life is slow. And here I am, multi-tasking. 
 
 
 You can be yourself. I have always been. People often think that I am funny and crazy, but I think they have also come to love me for it. Being yourself gives you a personality which makes you last a lot longer. I think there are really no rules. Your personality is what makes you stand out in the industry and earns you respect.
 
 
 They do that, but a little less now. Maybe in the ’90s and early 2000s, there was a sense of high respect for a celebrity especially for the older generation. But with the advent of social media, it’s easier to access people and make fun of them, and as celebrities, we do try to take a lot of it on our chin. I don’t think everything that’s said on social media is justifiable or great, but the platform helps in making actors and stars more human and relatable.
 
 
 Yes, but there are exceptions to the rule. People like Priyanka Chopra and   are really paving the way for successful women. It’s encouraging. Generally, women are paid lesser than their male counterparts. Especially in commercial cinema, the hero is the most important element, which is why films like ' ' and 'Queen' feel like a breath of fresh air! 
 
 
 Globally, the word feminist has been used for different kinds of things. Feminism often becomes more about male bashing and about women’s groups coming together and fighting for things which are more than just equal rights. Feminism is a big umbrella. But from what I gather, people don’t want to be looked upon as those who don’t like men. If you look it up the dictionary, feminism means equality of sexes.
 
 
 Kangana always surprises me. I love the kind of films she does. She strikes a great balance between entertaining films and content-heavy ones. Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Irrfan Khan are great. Also, I just love Ranbir Kapoor. They are challenging the way performances have been seen in the last few decades. They are being realistic.
 
 
 I’m not a threat to anyone in the industry and I’m not on bad terms with anyone, but I have an equation with Zoya Akhtar, the gang from 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani' including Deepika (Padukone), Ayan (Mukerji) and Ranbir. We don’t meet regularly but whenever we do, we bond well. Basically, I don’t get too competitive. I do my own thing.
 
  
  
