Bharuch/Surat: Three persons were arrested for smuggling opium tablets worth Rs 1.5 crore by a team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from Ahmedabad on Wednesday. NCB suspect that the accused are part of a larger international drug smuggling racket. 

 Mohammed Arif and Mohammad Zafar were arrested from Bharuch, while the alleged marstermind of the drug racket Mohammad Umar was nabbed from Surat. The opium tablets were packed in two parcels totalling 650 bottles.
 
 Hari Om Gandhi, zonal director at NCB, said , “The parcel reached through Mahabali courier agency located at B G Trade Centre, Panchbatti in Bharuch on Tuesday afternoon. Following specific information, Mohammad Arif was under watch and as soon as he reached the courier shop to collect the parcel, the NCB team nabbed him.” He added that the bottles containing opium were labelled ‘Kamini’ .
 
 During investigation, the NCB team found that a person named Mohammad Umar of Surat was to send these tablets as ‘medicines’ outside India. He was later arrested from Surat. While the NCB team was questioning Arif at the spot, Zafar came to receive the parcels containing ‘Kamini’ tablets on behalf of Uma. He too was arrested on the spot. 
 
 The NCB team conducted search at Arif’s home which resulted in seizure of few more loose packets of ‘Kamini’ tablets and opium concealed in tobacco packets, 480 Spasmoproxyvan capsules, a Schedule-H drug, and Rs18,99,500 in new currency.
 
 According to NCB, Umar, the mastermind of the racket, owned a footwear shop in Japan Market of Surat and Zafar was his employee. Arif owns a tailoring shop in Saiyedwad area of Bharuch. 
 
 All three were booked under sections of 8(c),18 (b), 23, 29 of the NDPS Act. A total of 27,000 tablets and capsules were seized from them.
 
 “Preliminary investigation revealed that Umar and Arif were sending these medicines to destinations in US and Canada regularly through various courier agencies. They were sending opium and other medicines in tobacco packets. The major supply was from Bharuch. The parcels were sent in fake names to other countries," said NCB director Hari Om Gandhi.
 
 The market value of seized opium and other Schedule-H drug in the international market comes to around Rs 1.5 crore or Rs 2 crore.
 
 
