Last week was the 126th birth anniversary of the first Goan bishop to head the Church in Goa, Bishop Dom Francisco da Piedade Rebelo. 

 Born in   on September 4, 1891, Rebelo studied at the Rachol seminary. No sooner he turned 24 than he was ordained priest by the patriarch of East India, Dom Mateus da Oliveira Xavier, at the seminary’s church. Rebelo offered his first mass on October 5, 1915, at the time, probably unaware that he would one day hold the reins of the   in Goa. 
 
 His first posting was as assistant parish priest at St Francis Xavier’s Church, Dabul, Mumbai, where he worked till 1917. On his return to Goa he served as the Patriarchal Secretariat. On September 1942, he was appointed chancellor of the Patriarchal Curia, and in December 1953, Patriarch Dom Jose Vieira Alvernaz appointed him the vicar general, which crowned his career at the Patriarchal Curia.
 It was because of his sound knowledge of the Curia and outstanding administrative skills that he was chosen to head the archdiocese when   migrated to   after Liberation.
 He then served as auxiliary bishop to the patriarch in November 1963 and, three years later, was elevated as apostolic administrator of the archdiocese sede plena by Pope Paul VI, in 1966.
 
 “Affable and down to earth, Bishop Rebelo used persuasion rather than authority to deal with his priests, who easily acceded to his suggestions and instructions. His rich experience and administrative acumen helped him in steering the archdiocese with dignity and aplomb during its most difficult days after Liberation and the Vatican Council II,” Jose Maria Miranda writes.
 He points out that Rebelo has the distinction of being one of the few priests who served under four patriarchs of Goa -- Dom Mateus de Oliveira Xavier, Dom Teotonio Vieira de Castro, Dom Jose da Costa Nunes and Dom Jose de Veira Alvernaz.
 
 He was instrumental in getting the New Testament printed and published in Konkani and his love for education and the youth motivated him to facilitate the setting up of the diocesan society of education and its schools as well as St Xavier’s College at Mapusa, Carmel College for women in Nuvem and Nirmala Institute of Education. These educational institutes continue to be sought after by students.
 When he resigned in 1972, Bishop Raul Gonsalves was indicted in his place as apostolic administrator. Rebelo breathed his last on July 7, 1975, at the ripe age of 83.
 
 Recognising Bishop Rebelo’s work, the   in 1976 decided to “honour and perpetuate his memory” by naming the stretch along Margao-Borim to its west up to Mungul ward of Margao after him.
 
