Noida: A 28-year-old driver of a Maruti   died after his vehicle lost balance and crashed into nearby bushes as two cars — a Swift Dzire and a Lamborghini—deviated from their respective lanes when the Dzire apparently overtook the latter on the Noida-Greater   Expressway near Stellar Apartments in Sector 135 on Saturday evening. 

  footage of the accident showed the Swift Dzire driving on the Greater Noida-Noida carriageway of the   around 5pm deviating to its left and overtaking the Lamborghini travelling on the second lane from the central verge. The overtaking resulted in the Lamborghini deviating from its lane to the left, which led to a collision between the car and an Eeco which was following the third lane. 
 
 The white Eeco (DL1V3040) lost balance and somersaulted thrice, after which it got stuck in the bushes beside the carriageway.
 
 The driver of the Eeco, Arshad Ahmed, a resident of Delhi’s Mandawali, was taken to Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128, where he was declared brought dead.
 
 While the one-minute-and-28-second long video showed the Dzire overtaking the Lamborghini leading to the accident, it was not clear whether the Lamborghini too tried to overtake the Dzire as a longer footage of the accident was not available.
 
 The driver of Swift Dzire, Mohnish Khan, claimed that he overtook the Lamborghini after the latter tried to overtake his vehicle. 
 
 The police said they have not yet identified the Lamborghini driver. “We are trying to verify whether the Lamborghini too made an error. Its driver has not been identified so far and we will see if the person is guilty. We have arrested the driver of the Swift,” Vedpal Pundir, SHO, Expressway police station, told TOI.
 
 Arshad’s friends said he had come to Pari Chowk for some work and was returning home when the accident took place. An FIR has been lodged against Swift driver Mohnish Khan under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC based on the complaint of Arshad’s nephew Abdul Rauf.
 
 
