Taapsee Pannu, who is making the nation's jaws drop and heads turn with her hot and completely different bold look in 'Judwaa 2', spoke about her role in the upcoming film, her bond with   and the hard-work she had to put in for this role in an interview with TimesOfIndia.com.

 Taapsee who is reprising the role iconized by   in the 1997 hit film 'Judwaa' opened up about her role saying that "Everything is different about Samaara's role as she is the one who takes the lead in the relationship. The girls have changed over the last twenty years and if you have to revamp someone so you had to get the change and that's why they approached me. There is still an element of the girl next door as I play a college-going girl which is a bit glamourized."
 
 
  
  
 
 The actress who started her Bollywood career with David Dhawan's film 'Chashme Baddoor' said, "It felt like a continuity working with him (David Dhawan) again. It was only the co-actors, sets and clothes that changed but apart from that everything seemed to be the same."
 
 Appearing alongside   and  , Taapsee even revealed about how hard she had to work on her look due to her co-actors' hot personality. "You have to look like a million bucks in every frame, you don’t wake up like this. For me it was very hard to look like that because I had Jacqueline and Varun next to me who have already established the fact that they are the hottest looking man and woman in the industry, so with them around I had to live up to their standards, that was pretty stressful or the only stress I had in the film. First time in my life I have taken a six-month-long gym membership," she said.
 
 
 When asked about facing competition in the face of another female lead in the film, Taapsee quirkily answered, "We (Jacqueline and I) both have our own attention and I have not even shared my man also in the film. The only thing that mattered to me while doing the film is I had to live up to the standards they have in terms of glamour, that was the only thing I was stressed about."
 
 
 
  
 
 The 'Pink' actress who has done six films in Bollywood till now had earlier shared a message on Facebook where she had opened up saying that lots of Bollywood actors refused to work with her because she was not an A-lister, when quizzed about it she said, "No, I am still not an A-lister. There will always be a time when there will be people better than you and also not as good as you. I still don’t consider myself an A-lister. I don’t know what will make me a part of it."
 
 After pictures of   and   having a cigarette break together circulated online, many users on social media started trolling the latter for her outfit and the fact that she was puffing away. Although Ranbir did not attract any major hate, Mahira was excessively targeted even for her backless dress. Taapsee was also faced with some trolling when she posted pictures of herself in a bikini, she said that she tries to find humour in the comments that she receives. "An eye for an eye would make the entire nation blind so I don’t want to answer them with anger and hatred so I find humour the best way to answer them," she said.
 
 
