KOLHAPUR:   from outsourced agencies dominate   filed against Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ), revealed a recently organised consumer grievances redressal campaign.

 The Kolhapur zone of MSEDCL had organized a redressal campaign to address the complaints of consumers. The state power distribution utility has outsourced meter readings to private agencies due to lack of adequate personnel. However, consumers often complaint of random meter readings and delay in meter readings. But the power utility hardly pays attention to the complaints.
 
 In the recent consumer grievance redressal campaign, 70% of the complaints received by MSEDCL were regarding wrongful billings. In the four day campaign from July 12 to July 15, the power utility received 864 complaints from Kolhapur district. Out of the complaints received 563 were regarding wrongful meter readings.
 
 A senior official in MSEDCL, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The company has hired private agencies for meter readings. But the contractor hardly pays their employees who go out to measure the readings. Therefore, employees hardly visit the houses to read the meters. Sometime there is delay in actual meter readings which result in higher bills if meter reading crosses a specific cap for concessional rates. The ultimate victim of the whole ordeal is the consumer. He is forced to pay extra or he has to run from pillar to post to reduce bills.”
 
 Recently, director of the Pune division instructed the zonal level offices to file criminal cases against meter agencies if they were found guilty of wrongful meter readings.
 
 Kolhapur resident Sandip Chaghule said, “Wrong meter readings is the basic concern for consumers like us. The company often floats inflated bills which are higher than actual readings. The company spends a lot of time to rectify their fault. In the meantime, the possibility of disconnection always lingers due to non-payment of bills. This situation should be improved and the readings should be appropriate and within the given time period.”
 
 
