AHMEDABAD: According to the health department figures Ahmedabad registered, on an average, five dengue cases per day from 2012 to 2016. 

 The state government has said that in 2016, 1,738 cases were registered — the highest annual number of cases since 2012. In response to a question from  , the   from Danilimda, the government said that the 1,738 dengue cases in question were recorded from December 1, 2015, to November 30, 2016. However, the figures of the   are different. 
 
  On Monday, the AMC stated in a release that 2,852 cases were reported in 2016. Sources said that the health department was under-reporting dengue cases because the two numbers, taken together, suggest that more than 1,100 cases were reported in December alone — which is unlikely. The reply in the state assembly said that dengue had killed at least 26 people over the past five years and that the highest number of deaths, 12, were recorded in 2016; followed by seven in 2015. 
 
 According to these figures, only one person had died in Ahmedabad district in 2012.
 
 The government said in its reply that separate dengue outdoor patients’ departments had been opened in district civil hospitals. 
 
 The government said that awareness programmes were educating people about the dos and don’ts for both swine flu and dengue. The government said banners indicating precautions to be taken had been displayed at public places. 
 
 The figures tabled suggest that Ahmedabad district, especially the city, were the worst affected by swine flu in the state with the city recording 2,832 cases over five years and recording 155 deaths, the highest in the state. Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, and Vadodara accounted for more than 50% of swine flu cases registered in the state and also the number of deaths.
 
 28 swine flu cases this season: AMC
 
 Ahmedabad: Even as the mean temperatures are rising, cases of swine flu appear to be on the rise in Ahmedabad. According to the weekly health report of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), around 28 cases of swine flu were reported across civic body-run hospitals in the city. Of these, around six cases were reported in January, 10 cases in February and 12 in March. In fact, three swine flu-related deaths were also reported in the city.
 
 Bhavin Solanki, in-charge medical officer – health, AMC, said, “The cases have been discrete and sporadic and hospitals are taking adequate measures to keep patients isolated. The cases will go down in the days to come as the temperatures go up.”
 
 “As part of their routine activity, health department officials have been visiting the local neighbourhood of patients and checking if cases of flu are reported there,” he added.
 
 Apart from the swine flu cases, close to a 1,000 cases of water-borne diseases were also reported in March in civic body-run hospitals. These include five cases of cholera along with 616 cases of vomiting and diarrhoea, 148 cases of jaundice and 218 cases of typhoid. In March, the mobile court of the civic body collected Rs 2.49 lakh worth of administrative charges, for health-related violations.
 
