CHENNAI:   general secretary VK   on Sunday evening exhorted  , staying at Golden Bay Resort in Koovathur near Mahabalipuram, to take a pledge in front of portrait of late   chief minister J   that they will help the party capture the secretariat.

 Addressing the MLAs, Sasikala claimed that Jayalalithaa's last words to her were "No one can destroy our party." The party general secretary said she would give her life to save the party.
 
 "I am going to take a pledge in front of Amma's portrait that we will capture the secretariat. Everyone should take the pledge with me,” she said. 
 
 A few minutes later, she said, "Everyone should take the pledge at former 
  and then capture the secretariat."
 
 "Amma has left behind the party as our wealth. We will take it." 
 
 The general secretary also commented on the education of AIADMK legislators. "You are not highly educated, but Amma was. Despite that, she trained you so that you could dream of one day becoming an MLA. Don't forget what she did. How she raised you up from your humble origins."
 
 Sasikala used a handkerchief to pat her cheeks and said, "Even now when I think of Amma, I cry. I think of the great responsibility she and you the people entrusted to me."
 
 The interim general secretary's usage of Tamil was rough and colloquial with statements like, "Entha kombanalum assaika mudiyathu." (No upstart can shake me). "I swear on you - this party, this government, no one can shake me. I will give my life and save the party. It is a difficult time we are facing. Made more difficult by certain malicious forces at work."
  
 She took exception to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O Panneerselvam's public image as a person of modest means. "They say Panneerselvam is middle class. I am even more so. I come from a humble background. From a poor agricultural family. Everyone knows who is what. We all have to work together. I trust you." 
 
 Using short, repetitive sentences, Sasikala tried to win the 
  saying, "With your support I will face anything. I have the courage. I will not step back from any decisions taken. I will take the right decisions at the right time. I will not back off."
 
 She alleged that the 
  . "They say, she is a woman we can threaten her. That didn't work with Amma. It won't work with me. There are so many people in our party that - only I can capture the secretariat. We will not - cow down. We will stand united."
 
 Earlier, she 
 and claimed that there were free and united.
 
 
 
 
