 and   the much-in-love couple recently shot a romantic and fun photo shoot where they looked gorgeous together.

 The TimesOfIndia.com caught up with the stars and spoke with them exclusively about their photo shoot and wedding preparations.
 
 When asked, why did the couple suddenly decided to have a pre-wedding shoot, Bharti said, "It's not a pre-wedding shoot. I don't know why people are saying it is a pre-wedding shoot. We noticed that media has been using our not so good pictures so we decided to have a photo shoot with a nice theme." 
  
 Haarsh added, "We had lot of fun shooting for it. It was very tiring, but we enjoyed the process a lot. We didn't opt for a typical photo shoot where I am proposing her with a ring. Instead I used a burger to propose her. The pictures have come out very nice and we are very happy."
 
 
 
  
 
 The   judge says we will definitely have a pre-wedding shoot soon and it will be grand, "We will have a pre-wedding shoot and we are planning to do it out of the country at an exotic location. I will wear a beautiful gown and Haarsh will sport a tuxedo."
  
 Is she following any diet before the wedding: Bharti said, "No, I am not dieting. These are all rumours. Haarsh loves me for what I am."
  
  
 Talking about the shoot, Bharti explained, "The shoot was amazing Haarsh and I had a lot of fun. This is something we have never done. We had four looks each had a different essence to it."
 
 The popular stand-up comedian also spoke about her wedding preparations, she said, "I have already told you about our wedding date but for the venue, we are still in progress. We have finalized three dates 30th November, 3rd or 6th December and will happen either in Punjab or Goa. The date and the venue will be decided as and when Haarsh gets free."
  When probed as to why Haarsh is not giving Bharti a date. 
 
 Revealing about their honeymoon destination, the couple said, "We plan to go to the best of the locations of the world. Spain, Europe, Milan, Paris, France are on top of our list."
 
