MADURAI: Normalcy returned to the city after a week on Tuesday as the students who were protesting at various points including Tamukkam dispersed on Monday night. However, the violent turn to the protest in its last leg left as many as 11 government buses and three police vehicles damaged in the city limits alone. In all, 11 people were arrested for damaging the buses while search is on for seven more persons.

 In Alanganallur and other rural parts of the district, as many as 18 buses were damaged in stone pelting while 131 persons have been booked for organising protest without taking prior permission. 
 
 Vehicular movement was smooth in most parts of the city. Traffic in Alanganallur which was hit for a week due to protest at Tamukkam resumed late on Monday night. However, a posse of police personnel was deployed at many places including at Tamukkam as a precautionary measure. 
 
  arrested 120 persons in connection with protests though all of them have been released. A few government buses suffered damage in stone pelting by the protesters. A clash between police and protesters had erupted in Alanganallur on Monday morning when the police started forcibly evicting them. Madurai district superintendent of police said that only 15 persons sustained injuries in Alanganallur. Around 30 police personnel sustained injuries when the villagers and protesters resorted to stone pelting. 
 
 Normalcy returned to Alanganallur as well as the police brought the town panchayat under its control after the protest came to an end on Monday morning. Vehicular movement from Madurai city started after the protest ended. 
 
 Meanwhile, People’s Watch, a Madurai-based human rights organisation, condemned the police attack against the students throughout Tamil Nadu. It described the lathicharge as a planned attack by the police personnel.  , another city-based NGO, also condemned the attack against students who had been protesting in a peaceful way. 
 
 Anti-nuclear activist  , who protested along with students and villagers in Alanganallur, suffered injuries in the police attack and was hospitalised. He said that he was targeted by the police. He was detained separately and attacked by a team of police personnel including Alanganallur inspector Annaraj. He was shifted to   after he fell unconscious and is recuperating from injuries suffered in his hand.
 
