Former Australian captain   might have dealt with tough opponents on the cricket field in international matches, but he was stumped by 17-year-old Kavita at the score of zero during a match at an NGO in  ,  . Kavita was the captain of the girls' cricket team of Saksham NGO and she took charge of bowling as Michael decided to bat, to share some batting tips with the children who had assembled to meet him. Michael was invited by CRY (Child Rights and You) to spend some time with the underprivileged kids. Clarke interacted with the children and shared some tips about the game, and distributed soccer balls, sport bags and tees to encourage them to engage in more sports.

  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Michael spent around an hour with the children, talking to them and playing games. During the interaction session, the kids asked him questions, and a few things he was asked were, 'How do you concentrate on your game when there are thousands of fans cheering for you and distracting you on the ground?' 'How should one stand while batting?' 'When did you start playing cricket?' Michael replied, "I started playing cricket at the age of six. My father played cricket and I wanted to be like my dad. I liked watching   on TV and fell in love with the game. When I started playing, I was the smallest kid in the ground, not strong enough to hit the runs, but over the years I trained myself. Preparation and training is important to focus in the game." 
 
 When the cricketer was asked what he likes doing when he is not playing cricket, he took out his mobile phone to show the kids a video of his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Kelsey Lee. "This is what I do when I am not playing cricket. I love spending time with my daughter. Also, when I am not playing cricket I like playing other sports like running, swimming, soccer and tennis," he said.
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
 The cricketer said that the reason he decided to spend some time with children talking about sports is because "it is very important to give an opportunity to boys and girls around the world to play more sports.” He added, “I have always loved India and this country has been special – my first test match was against India in Bangalore. It is a country which is very close to me and it is always very good to come back."
 
  Though Michael tried to not discuss too much about the India-Australia series, when he was asked about aggression in sports and Virat Kohli’s aggression on field, he replied, "Virat's aggression is one of his greatest strengths, that’s the way he likes to play and that's how he has had success and that is the way he will continue to play. I think Virat is going to do whatever he can to help India get success. India has had an amazing summer. They played some unbelievable cricket and Australia knows that India is always tough in their backyard. Virat is the captain of the Indian team, he enjoys the challenge."
 
 
