GURGAON: The Delhi-Gurgaon commute is set to get longer and more taxing, with the Haryana government introducing entry tax of Rs 100, that needs to be paid every time a cab enters Haryana from Delhi. Sirhaul toll plaza is witnessing long queues of drivers outside the tax collection centre, with numerous cabs parked on the side of NH-8. On Monday, cabbie unions protested the steep tax revision in front of Haryana Bhavan in Delhi.

 Not only are commuters having to wait in cabs while cabbies get tax receipts, many are unable to book cabs from Delhi to Gurgaon, as the driver’s unions are protesting the “unfair” tax. “On Sunday afternoon, we booked a cab from Sarojini Nagar to Gurgaon. The cab driver stopped right before Ambience mall, saying he had to pay some tax. Eventually, we had to wait in the cab for 15 minutes, as there was a long queue at the collection centre,” said Trapti Singh, finance professional who lives in DLF Phase 2.
 
 Several other commuters TOI spoke to said they faced trouble getting a cab back to Gurgaon from Delhi, but they had no clue about the cause. “I work in Delhi and generally commute by cab to Gurgaon. But over the last couple of days, cabs are not easily available,” said Ankit Arora, a software engineer working in Cyber City. 
 
 The Delhi taxi driver’s unions accepted they were declining rides to Gurgaon, because of the recent change in tax structure. From Rs 950 for three months which they had to pay earlier, they now have to pay Rs 100 per ride, making it over Rs 9,000 for the same period for some.
 
 “They have taken charges up from Rs 300 a month to Rs 3,000 a month or more. This is too much, it’s unsustainable. We don’t wish to cause any discomfort to commuters, but we can’t pay these rates,” said Kamaljeet Gill, president, Sarvodaya Drivers Association, Delhi.
 
 The increase applies to the whole of Haryana, because of which the driver’s unions held protests at three locations on Monday. One of the protests was in Delhi outside Haryana Bhawan, where union members submitted a memorandum to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s office, and burnt his effigy outside. The two other protests were held in Chandigarh and Jaipur, as cab drivers in these cities have been affected as well.
 
  (RTA) officials said the tax has been introduced from April 1. “We’ve made the changes as communicated to us by the department. The new tax structure became effective from April 1, 2017,” said Trilok Chand, secretary, Gurgaon RTA.
 
 Of the two biggest app-based cab services, Ola declined to comment on the development, while   could not be reached.
 
 
