KOCHI: Even as the government proposes to digitize medical records, already the corporate tertiary care hospitals in Kochi are in the process of going paperless. While few of them have fully gone paperless, there are many others who have ensured that all their out-patient records are digitized.

 "We have a completely  . It improves the overall quality of healthcare- from  . Electronic medical system is a critical tool in achieving health information exchange across doctors. The records are available whenever and wherever it is needed," Santy Sajan, Chief Operating Officer, Aster Medcity.
 
 "On the technology front, it decreases the carbon footprint and makes sure that the data is available, archived well and retrieved easily," said Dr Binu Joy, Head-Division of Digital Health and Innovation, Rajagiri Hospital.
 
 National e-Health Authority's (NeHA) mandate is to get entire healthcare providers on electronic mode. This is to ensure uniformity of facts and can be useful in understanding the trends of diseases in particular rea and intervention can come faster.
 
 Explaining the benefits of a centralised electronic health record, hospital authorities said that it allows access of medical records to doctors across departments, ensures better follow-up and quick transfer of information from one department to another. Reduces errors and e-prescription ensures clarity on whether medicine is available in the pharmacy and if a patient is allergic to particular medicine prescribed by the doctor.
 
 "While for a patient, it is faster care and decision making, the doctor can expedite the patient care. It has also helped hospitals save costs," said an official from Lisie Hospital.
 
 To ensure the smooth shift, already many hospitals are in the process of training their doctors and staff and they claim that the resistance to change has reduced. Subash Scaria, Director (Operations), VPS Lakeshore hospital said, "Doctors, nurses and technicians were given training to shift from the paper mode to the digital mode. That is continuously happening."
 
 Meanwhile, hospitals are also toying with the idea of giving online access to patients. "We plan to set-up a patient portal soon which will enable people to access their medical records from remote location. However, we have to look into the security aspects to ensure that it is not misused. Patient privacy and safety of data is crucial," said Dr Binu.
 
 "Going forward, the patient will be able to access medical records and work towards that is in progress. But it has various security levels as medical records are very private to the patients," added Sajan.
 
 Amrita Patient Health Record of AIMS has already started sharing medical records with patients on a pen drive. "The records are only given to the patient after taking their signature, because of confidentiality issue. But you can't give access to your server to patients as then there is increased risk of the server being hacked. But a separate server can be provided just as we provide a separate server to doctors so that they can have access to lab reports and radiology images, even when at home," Dr Sanjeev Singh, medical superintendent, AIMS.
 
