An unprecedented situation faces election authorities in Ward 220: After a day of drama that included a vote tie, a recount, and a lottery drawn by a fouryear-old, the winner of the seat representing Bhuleshwar and   still hangs by a thread.

 The final result may depend on five sealed votes--known as “tender votes“ --lying with the civic authorities.
 
 The drama at the municipal school on Gilder Lane began early in the day. After counting the ballots, officials found that the top two candidates-Atul Shah from BJP and   from Shiv Sena--had secured 5,946 votes each. A recount produced the same result--a tie.
 
 Officials couldn't remember the last time this had happened. The BMC commissioner, empowered to act by the election commission, rushed to the counting centre with the rulebook. A frantic scouring of the pages seemed to produce a solution: a lottery could be used to break ties, the rules said.
 
 The two candidates agreed to the proposal. Their names were written on two pieces of paper and placed in a box. Poll officials went to the neighbouring area to get a child to pick the winning ticket. Four-year-old Yashika Salunke was available. She drew out the winner: BJP's Atul Shah.
 
 But there was another complication. Under election laws, a person who comes to the polling centre and finds someone else has voted in his name on the EVM can cast a paper ballot. These ballots are known as “tender votes“, and are to be sealed and kept aside. Ward 220 had five socalled “tender votes“ in a sealed packet, still uncounted.
 
 Before agreeing to the lottery, Se na candidate Bagalkar had asked that the five tender votes be opened and counted to decide the winner.Once the lottery went against him, he returned to demand that the tender votes be counted.
 
 Officials say that while there is a legal provision to cast a tender vote, there is no clear provision on the circumstances under which it should be counted. “It has never been counted in the past,“ a senior official said. “So we decided on the lottery. The tender vote will be counted only if the election commission or the court asks us to do so.“
 
 Bagalkar said he will approach the court, after taking legal opinion and the counsel of his party leader Uddhav Thackeray .
 
 As for Shah, if his win is not challenged, he can thank a fouryear-old girl.
 
