The CP’s office is among seven police department offices in the satellite city that are yet to pay up dues pending for over a year, totalling over Rs 15 lakh.

 Seven police department offices in Navi Mumbai, including that of the Commissioner of Police, have been   by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) for   for more than a year. The notices were issued last week by the MSEDCL office in Navi Mumbai when they found that seven offices had failed to pay the electricity bills for more than a year, despite reminders. If the respective offices do not respond to the notices and make the payments, their electricity connections may be disconnected and meters uninstalled. The total pending dues by various police department offices are around Rs 15.62 lakh.
 
 “Currently there is a special drive to recover dues from various government organisations across the state. We have sent notices to respective department heads and the notice sent to Navi Mumbai Police commissioner is part of the same drive,” said a spokesperson from MSEDCL. “Various offices and control rooms haven’t paid electricity bills for more than a year now so we have started the drive to recover the dues.”
 
 The notices were served to the  , Deputy Commissioner of Police, headquarters, Deputy Commissioner of Police (zone I) and senior police inspectors of Nerul police station, NRI Sagri police station, CBD police station and Belapur police station. The   (NMMC) CCTV control room has pending dues of Rs 5.49 lakh while the DCP headquarters is yet to pay up Rs 7.67 lakh. The remaining police offices, which include police chowkies and police quarters, have pending bills of around Rs 3 lakh. The electricity company, in their drive to recover pending dues, has started sending officials to private and commercial premises if the bill isn’t paid by the due date. If a person does not pay up, even after officials have visited, their connections are cut off and the electricity meters uninstalled. The person or premises concerned will have to then approach the concerned office and pay the penalty along the pending dues to get the connection restarted.
 
