PANAJI: The   ( ) is relishing its role as a king maker yet again, but this visage is a far cry from the party’s claims of a resurgence and Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar’s dream of becoming the state’s next chief minister. Poll observers say that MGP’s appeal is waning in the state. 

 Yet, Dhavalikar and his two newly-elected party colleagues, Manohar Babu Azgaonkar and Deepak Pauskar will soon be part of a coalition led by Manohar Parrikar, who quit as defence minister to head the new government in the state.
 
 The poll results only signify that the Dhavalikar brothers, one of them who lost in the fray, have failed to take their party pan Goa. 
 
 For all tall claims by its leaders and their political manoeuvring, the oldest regional party could not break the glass ceiling — beyond its 2012 tally of three seats, though its vote share increased by 4.58%.
 
 Poll analysts say the status quo is unlikely to change in the future. The MGP’s fortunes are likely to dwindle further as those leading the party lack charisma and an aptitude to ‘think big’ for Goa and its people.
 
 The party’s sitting MLAs, party president Deepak Dhavalikar lost in Priol by a margin of 4,685 votes while Lavoo Mamledar was relegated to a humble fourth position in Ponda. He polled just 3,796 votes.
 
 Ramkrishna Dhavalikar was re-elected from Madkai with a margin of 13,680 votes, which may have increased the party’s vote share, but did nothing to enhance its standing in the political landscape.
 
 The party notched gains in Pernem and Sanvordem. Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar defeated former forest minister Rajendra Arlekar in Pernem by a big margin of 6,030, whereas in Sanvordem, their candidate Deepak Pauskar secured a lead of 5,221 votes against BJP MLA, Ganesh Gaude.
 
 Poll observers say that the votes polled by Azgaonkar and Pauskar can’t be termed as MGP’s votes in a pure sense, though both constituencies had been MGP’s strongholds in the long past.
 
 There was strong resentment against Arlekar because of his disconnect with voters, which benefited Azgaonkar, a former minister who quit Congress party a few days prior to elections. In 2012, Arlekar had defeated Azgaonkar who was a minister in the Congress-led government. Pauskar in Sanvordem cashed in on anti-Ganesh Gaonkar votes. Pauskar who was a businessman had contested as an independent in 2012 and since then was working in the constituency.
 
 In Mandrem, once an MGP bastion, its candidate Shridhar Mandrekar, a known MGP face, polled only 678 votes.
 
 In other constituencies, barring Bicholim and Shiroda, where the party candidates finished second, others were relegated down the order.
 
 Naresh Sawal who had also joined MGP a month before the elections, lost to BJP’s Rajesh Patnekar by 666 votes. Sawal was elected as an independent in 2012, and during his tenure he had developed a strong connect with its voters where presence of the Congress Party was almost zero. Poll pundits believe votes polled by Sawal was his personal vote share than that of the MGP. 
 
 In constituencies of Shiroda and Dabolim, the party’s candidates polled 5,815 votes and 4,740 votes, but not enough to muster a win. In Aldona, Mahesh Satelkar, a former Congress man, polled 3,000 votes but these may be his personal votes, and cannot been seen as MGP making inroads there.
 
 In the rest of the constituencies — MGP contested total 27 seats and supported Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) and Shiv Sena combine in nine constituencies — the vote share of its candidates was negligible.
 
  “The MGP has steadily lost its relevance with the entry of BJP in Goa. The Dhavalikars kept MGP’s flag afloat though nothing concrete was done to resurrect the fledgling party,” says former MGP leader.
 
