KOTA: The   from last summer has had a   here in the  . The clashes between armed forces and separatists, leading to deaths,  , have affected the performance of valley students if you go by the  .

 Kota has over 1,500 students from the Valley alone preparing for IIT as well as medical entrance exams. But, when the JEE-Main results were announced recently, only one student from the Valley made it to the top 300 list.
 
 Last year, there were three students in the elite 300 club. TOI spoke to some of the students (names changed in the report) from the Valley in Kota over the phone to find out how their performance was hit due to the unrest.
 
 A native of the epicentre of unrest, Anantnag, Muhktar Bhat is not happy with his rank, between 200 and 300, in the JEE exam in which over 12 lakh students appeared.
 
 “I could have performed better had there been peace in my native place, where my extended family lives. Imagine, how it feels like when you have no clue about your family for days and months?” asked Bhat, who is planning to pursue computer science from IIT-Bombay.
 
 Along with other Kashmiri students, he had spent hours during the peak of unrest on internet reading news about the home state on websites.
 
 “The sense of fear was so high that we had spent many sleepless nights. I missed several classes due to stress and fear for my family. Certainly, we have wasted several hours that we could have devoted to studies,” said Asif Wani, another student from Pompore known for saffron.
 
 During the peak, when the entire valley was under the grip of curfew and communication lines down, Wani, Bhat and other students found it difficult to focus on their studies. They were glued to the internet and television to catch a glimpse of the situation in their native place. While many students from the region joined coaching institutes as per schedule, many others had to miss the deadline and could join only months later.
 
 A native of a village in Baramulla, Asfaq Khan’s dreams of IIT/NIT looks very bleak after getting a rank close to 80,000. While he was supposed to reach Kota for coaching in July 2016, he could only make it by December last. “On the basis of my entrance test exam, my teacher in Kota assured me of a rank in the top 30, 000 in JEE-Main last April and a possible call from the IITs. I was to join the centre in July, but could do so only in December. So, my training became a crash course and may now affect my career,” said Khan.
 
 Pramod Maheswari, director of Career Point Coaching institute, said, “It has been observed that the Kashmiri students have not performed to potential. The unrest has put them in dire stress for months. The government in that state and separatists have to own up the responsibility of ruining the careers of their kids.”
 
 
