BHUBANESWAR: The   (ECoR) has closed 125 unmanned level crossings (ULCs) in 2016-17, taking a step forward in reducing the constant threat posed by the crossings. 

 As many as 42 people have been killed in the last five years due to accidents that happened at ULCs that fall under the ECoR's designated area. 
 
 The ECoR has 313 such level crossings on April 1, 2016. At present, there are only 188 ULCs in the zone.
 
 On June 16 last year, a young man was killed when a passenger train hit a car at an unmanned level crossing near Agria in Mayurbhanj district. 
 
 On May 8, 2013, five persons were killed and four others critically injured after a jeep carrying them hit a train at an unmanned level crossing in Dhenkanal district. The   had dashed into the jeep. 
 
 At least 13 people were killed when an express train rammed into an auto-rickshaw in Sambalpur district on August 24, 2012. The accident occurred at an unmanned level-crossing on the outskirts of the city.
 
 The   had planned to close all the ULCs by 2020 in view of the accidents and in accordance with the decision, ECoR will turn the unmanned crossings to manned level crossings at different places of the zone and construct limited height subways, road under bridges and road over bridges to close the ULCs. 
 
 ECoR has manned 61 ULCs in the outgoing financial year. Construction of 13 LHSs is about to complete while work on four over bridges is going on at different spots of the zone. 
 
 The Railways have also planned to appoint Gate Mitras at the ULCs until these are closed by the deadline. The ECoR has appointed 202 local youths as Gate Mitras to prevent commuters from crossing them dangerously. "Gate Mitras are already positioned at ULCs with high traffic. This practice has paid great dividends," said ECoR chief spokesperson, J P Mishra.
 
 Mishra said all ULCs of ECoR will be eliminated before the deadline. "We are building limited height subways and road over bridges, and also manning them in unavoidable cases so as to eliminate all unmanned level crossings. This is a top priority for us," he added. 
 
