KOCHI: Charges Rs 7.21L For Cutting Road

 The public works department (PWD) has asked the   (IOAGPL) to redo filling of the trench, which they dug up for laying pipes for the city gas project, as the road was damaged even after the latter carrying out the initial repair work.This happened at a time when the state government is exerting pressure on Kochi corporation for granting road cutting sanction for the   after charging  's road restoration rate, which is lesser than the one fixed by the local body .
 
 One of the main concerns raised by the corporation for not granting road cutting sanction by charging PWD rates was that the rate was not sufficient for restoring the roads. The PWD had given road cutting sanction for IOAGPL for laying pipes along Palarivattom bypass-Ayyanad bridge stretch. As per the permit, it was through the shoulders of the road that the pipes had to be laid. When the IOAGPL laid pipes along close to one-km stretch, they dug up tarred portion in a 500m stretch.
 
 “Then, the PWD charged Rs 7.21 lakh for digging up tarred portions. Moreover, the IOAGPL has been asked to redo the filling work along 800m as the condition of the road gets worse due to inferior quality of the work,“ sources said.
 
 It was the district collector, who is also the nodal officer for the city gas project, who instructed the IOAGPL to redo the road work. Though the IOAGPL submitted fresh applications for digging up more stretches, the PWD has put the applications on hold.
 
 A special meeting of the then industries minister E P Jayarajan, works minister  , top government officials and representatives of IOAGPL had decided to give relaxations for the city gas agency on paying road cutting charges. For all others who dig up roads, including KWA, the restoration for bituminized macadam and bituminized concreting (BMBC) roads is Rs 3,686 per metre square. But the rate fixed by PWD for the road restoration to be paid by IOAGPL is just Rs 1,489 per metre square. The IOAGPL will do backfill works up to granular sub base (GSB) level. The rate fixed by PWD for restoring roads relayed using chipping carpet method is Rs 3,291 per metre square. But IOAGPL will have to pay just Rs 660 per metre square. The rate for restoring shoulders of the road which is earthen part is around Rs 600 per metre square, but the IOAGPL will not have to pay any charges for the same.
 
 According to corporation authorities, all the roads in Kochi will be in a dilapidated condition if the IOAGPL is allowed to dig up the roads as per the PWD's restoration charges.
 
 “A total of 890km of roads in the city will have to be dug up for the project. Though the company has given application for digging up only fourkm road right now, they will have to dig up all the roads if they are planning to provide gas connection to all the households in the city . The rates fixed by PWD for restoring roads is too less. We won't be able to do the works using the amount,“ an official with the corporation said.
 
 “The IOAGPL has dug up only a few kilometres of roads owned by PWD so far. Then, PWD found violations in the agreement conditions and also that restoration works done by IOAGPL is substandard,“ he said.
 
