KOLKATA: A fake post on   that may incite violence can attract a life-long prison term and a Rs 30-lakh penalty, according to the draft proposals being examined by the state government.

 After the Basirhat violence that spread following an upload by a schoolstudent, CID and Kolkata Police have arrested nine persons for fanning communal hatred on social media. FIRs have also been lodged against political leaders — and in one case a right-wing academic — on similar grounds. However, police feel the existing legal clauses lack teeth to act as a deterrent. The state home department then started examining the feasibility of tougher laws to curb the menace.
 
 According to sources, the existing legal provisions, which primarily include   sections like 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 295A (acts which outrage religious feelings) and 505(1) (anyone who publishes or circulates rumours promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will and incites violence), are bailable. The prevalent sections of IT Act 2000, sources claimed, were falling short of stopping deliberate rumour mongering.
 
 The proposed draft aims at covering malicious rumour mongering by slapping hefty penalties. The proposed penal sections also make such acts non-bailable offences. The proposed act specifically says, “If a person publishes or reproduces a statement, rumour or report which is likely to cause fear and panic among the public, or to disturb public peace, knowing or having reasons to believe that they are false, then he is liable for punishment …” 
 
 It is still not certain whether the proposals — shaped into a new bill — will be placed in the state assembly session starting August 4. The state home and law departments are minutely studying the proposed draft on whether it is running contrary to the freedom of speech and expression (Article 19) and various   orders.
 
 Earlier this year, in March, the law commission had suggested addition of a new provision on “prohibiting incitement to hatred” following Section 153B of IPC and “causing fear, alarm, or provocation of violence in certain cases” following Section 505 of IPC and accordingly amend the first schedule of the CrPC.
 
