PATNA: A seven-day workshop was inaugurated at Central University of South Bihar’s ( ) School of Education under the Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching scheme on Monday. 

 Addressing the participants, CUSB vice-chancellor (VC) H C S Rathore highlighted the demerits of the Indian education system. “In our country, students focus on scoring maximum marks. In other nations like China and the USA, the focus is on skill development,” he said.
 
 The workshop was divided into different sessions in which academics explained how project-based learning was helpful skill development. 
 
 The programme was coordinated by assistant professor Jitendra Kumar.
 
 A N College: Academics expressed their views on ‘Development of science and technology and its relation to society’ at the S N Sinha Memorial Lecture organized on A N College campus on Monday.
 
 Key speakers of the event included Nalanda Open University vice-chancellor R K Sinha, urban development principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad and Magadh University pro-vice-chancellor K N Paswan. 
 
 College principal Shashi Pratap Shahi welcomed the guests. 
 
 Magadh University: The two-day workshop on ‘Teaching English language: Need for restructuring the syllabus’ organized by the postgraduate department of English concluded on Magadh University (MU) campus at Bodh Gaya on Saturday.
 
 A large number of subject experts, teachers and research scholars from different universities participated in the workshop.
 
 Most of the experts said MU had not revised its English syllabus at the undergraduate (UG) level for the last 30 years. The present syllabus was of no use to students at a time when each individual was job-oriented, they added.
 
 Expressing concern over the gradual deterioration in English teaching in Bihar universities, Rizwan Khan, a noted scholar of Aligarh Muslim University said literature and language should be taught on priority basis to students at the UG level in MU colleges.
 
 
