Vadodara: The local crime branch (LCB) rural busted a gang that used to make bogus documents and sell of agricultural land. The gang of trio had tried to dupe Sureshchandra Patel, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, who has agricultural land in Ankhi village near Por. All the three were remanded to three days of police custody by a local court on Friday. 

 The police said that the gang had impersonated Sureshchandra and was trying to sell off his land by making bogus documents. “Sureshchandra learnt about it from his friend Jayendra Upadhyay, who was told about the proposed land sale by Jignesh Vyas, a land agent. The three accused had approached Jignesh with offer of selling the land in Ankhi village for Rs 80 lakh,” said LCB police sub-inspector, J J Patel. 
 
 “The accused told Jignesh that Sureshchandra was in need of money so he will accept Rs 15 lakh while preparing land sale agreement and rest of the money can be paid after ownership is transferred. The accused acquired voter identity card of another Suresh Patel, who is dead, and posed as Sureshchandra,” Patel told TOI. When Sureshchandra learnt about it, he approached the LCB that set a trap for the accused. Jignesh was asked to call the accused to Nyay Mandir for doing notary and sale agreement on Thursday.
 
 After preparing the documents, Jignesh told the accused trio that they will have to accompany them to Por for payment of Rs 15 lakh. When the accused reached Por, the LCB arrested them in presence of Sureshchandra, the actual owner of the land.
 
 The accused were identified as Mukesh Patel, who posed as Suresh, Manhar Gajera, who posed as Manoj and Vasant Hedau. Patel is a resident of Gandhinagar, Gajera of Rajkot and Hedau stays in Ahmedabad. 
 
 “Prime accused Ashok Gundadiya who had posed as Vijay and met Jignesh for the land deal is yet to be arrested. Our team has left for Junagadh to nab him,” the police said. 
 
 The cops suspect that the gang may have cheated many more persons by impersonating land owners. 
 
 
