KOLKATA: Two months after the sensational robbery at 82 Park Street at the gold loan company India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL) -in which the accused looted Rs 3 crore worth of gold -cops say they finally have a major lead in the case.

 Hours of analysis of footage from over 14 CCTVs in and around Park Street, New Park Street and Park Circus have led police to two video grabs which they believe is that of the accused. In fact, the police commissioner's office has now declared a reward of Rs 5 lakh to anyone who can provide leads to the accused.
 
 Coming days after the Kolkata Police announced a Rs 1lakh reward in a baby theft case, the new decision is being seen as an attempt to convince and involve other state police forces in the search. It also means cops are relying more and more on getting leads from the public and making them act as the eyes and ears of the law enforcers.
 
 “The technical team took help from several private quarters to develop the CCTV footage. While one footage is clear, the other is enough to help us establish the identity of the main suspect. The victims have been shown the CCTV grabs and they have identified the accused,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 With the modus operandi matching robberies in Roukela (Odisha), Ulhasnagar in Thane, and to an extent even the one at Baranagar near Kolkata, cops believe a gang -with their roots in Bihar and Jharkhand -could be involved in the plot.
 
 These gangsters generally deploy either of two methods.One: by starting a fruit shop adjacent to the target gold-loan agency or bank. They enter the offices by making holes in the walls and cut open the vault to clean out valuables. Two: By doing a recce of vulnerable loan agencies or banks and then bribing the security guard and carrying out the daring heist.
 
 CID sources said another loot in Durgapur in September also seems to have uncanny similarities with this one. In that incident, robbers beat up two employees of a jewellery shop and looted gold ornaments worth Rs 30 lakh. The CCTV cameras of the shop were also damaged by the robbers, just like what what was done even on this occasion.
 
