KOCHI: A senior citizen died on Thursday after he jumped off from the top floor of the  .

 The incident that left the court staff, lawyers, and the police personnel on duty in shock took place at around 12pm on Thursday. A member of the court staff saw the man, later identified as 77-year-old   of Mulavana in Kollam, going through the fire exit towards the edge of the building on the 8th floor. 
 
 Compared to other floors of the building, the 8th floor normally has only very few visitors. When the staff member realized that the man was about to jump, he beckoned him not to. After looking back at the staff member, the man proceeded with the leap.
 
 On the way down, the man’s body hit the metal railing of the parapet above the portico. One of his arms got detached on the impact while a leg was partially severed. The body then fell on top of a car parked close to the portico. He died on the spot and the body was later shifted to Ernakulam general hospital.
 According to Rakesh, an eyewitness to the incident, the man waved at those standing on the ground to give way. “People were yelling from the ground asking him not to jump. While he was straight faced and was determined to take the leap," said Rakesh.
 
 Soon after the incident, a flurry of rumours began to spread online and offline regarding the identity of the victim as well as the cause of the suicide. Online rumours were mostly appearing on WhatsApp groups.
 
 A lawyer who was at the scene told TOI that the man was wearing a white kurta and white pajamas and didn’t look as if he was a Malayali. The man jumped from the eight floor of the high court building and it is suspected that he had attended a proceeding at the mediation centre of the court, he said.
 
 Another group of lawyers said the man had appeared for a case in one of the courtrooms on the 7th floor and he might have been distressed by getting defeated in the proceedings. The judge of a court there is used to summoning persons who fail to honour cheques and threatening them with jail terms if they don’t pay up large sums immediately, they said.
 
 Enquiry with police personnel at the high court revealed that the deceased had told the security personnel that he was there to visit a lawyer and had made such an entry in the visitors’ register. Lawyers soon posted in WhatsApp groups that the lawyer was contacted and he said the deceased had not contacted him on Thursday but was an old client. However, none of his cases were pending at the high court, the lawyer had said.
 
 Meanwhile, it was reported in a WhatsApp group that the man was conducting a case as a party-in-person in one of the courtrooms on the 7th floor. The case was against the panchayat where he was residing for demolishing the compound wall of his property. He was seeking compensation by alleging that the demolition was illegal, a lawyer said in a post. However, no mention regarding pendency of such a case could be found in the list of cases published by the high court.
 
 Other rumours that came to be circulated included one that he was a person who used to file litigations involving public interest matters. One WhatsApp post said he had attempted to commit suicide from the collectorate at Kollam five years ago.
 
 TOI met high court registrar general Ashok Menon to verify the rumours. “He had no pending cases at the high court nor had he filed any complaints to us,” the registrar said. The initial assumption is that he came to the high court with the specific purpose of committing suicide but an investigation by the police is on to ascertain the real facts, he said.
 
 
