HUBBALLI:   has made it clear that designing a   will not denigrate the national flag or harm the unity and integrity of the nation. A proper decision will be taken after a report is submitted by the committee set up by the government to examine the idea of designing a separate flag for Karnataka.

 Chatting with the media in a local bus on his way to   after inaugurating   on Thursday, he said there is no point creating a controversy over a flag for Kar nataka.Excerpts from his chat:
 
 
 
 
 There has been a demand for a separate flag for Karnataka since 1965. When Kannada activists, including veteran journalist Patil Puttappa, put pressure on the government for a separate flag for Karnataka, we took up the issue. We have set up a committee of experts to study the legal aspects for designing a separate flag for Karnataka legally . We are waiting for the committee to give its opinion, after which we will take a proper decision.
 
 
 
 
 We have not yet taken a decision on the flag issue, but BJP leaders, including Yeddyurappa, fear elections after the Congress party's victory in the Nanjangud byelection. So they are spreading the wrong message among people about our move on the flag. Why should I play vote bank politics when it is sure that we are going to win the next assembly election? Our development work will help us come to power again. The BJP and JD (S) are anti-Kannadiga and don't have respect or pride for Kannada and Karnataka.
 
 
 
 
 We are living in a federal system. We also sing a naadageete, which is not an insult to the national anthem. The national flag will always be respected. What's wrong if there is a flag as a symbol of our language, land and culture? It will not harm the unity of the nation. Can anyone show me if the Constitution prohibits having a separate flag for the state? Let's wait for the committee report and take a call.
 
 
 
 
 The BJP has no issues to take up in the state, so they are focusing on silly things. Transfers are an administrative matter. Should I ask BJP leaders to handle transfers in the state? Shall I take their permission to transfer officials?
 
 
 
 
 Such criticism is foolish. Let them read the Constitution before writing such an article.
 
 
 
 
 What is their contribution to the state? There is no ModiShah wave in Karnataka, there is only a Kannada wave.
 
 
 
 The government has done everything to solve this matter amicably by writing twice to the Goa CM to come for discussions. But the Goa CM is not ready to solve it, though Maharashtra is ready . We are ready to settle the issue out of the tribunal.
 
 
 
 
 NO REALITY CHECK:
 
 Siddaramaiah travelled on a public bus on Thursday to encourage people to use public transport on the occasion of Bus Day. After inaugurating the event at Hubballi airport, the CM boarded the bus and bought a ticket to Dharwad.Everyone thought the bus will take the Hubballi-Dharwad Road which is in a sorry state following BRTS project work. But officials of the NWKRTC and other departments diverted the bus to the bypass, reportedly to avoid an embarrassing situation
 
