“My pillaigal (children) are everything to me,” says animal rescuer  . By pillaigal, she refers to the 250   at her shelter at Selvapuram, Veerapandi Panchayat in the outskirts of the city. Meet the dog lady of Coimbatore, who has been instrumental in rescuing and protecting dogs for over a decade. They say dogs are a man’s best friend, but at this shelter perhaps, Geetha Rani is the best friend of the canines. Her story was recently captured in a documentary titled Kaani Nilam Vendum by a Coimbatore-based filmmaker.

 Sharing her journey, Geetha Rani tells CT, “I had an unhappy childhood. My parents belonged to two different castes and their families didn’t accept them. I grew up devoid of love and affection. It was the dogs in the family that showered their love on me. I spent a lot of time playing with them and soon, developed an intense liking for them. I had decided then that when I grew up, I would do something for them.”
 
 Geetha stuck to her promise and began this shelter for abandoned, rescued and injured dogs. “To begin with, I had only 30 dogs. I found this vacant land in the outskirts of the city and moved in with my ‘children’. The number of dogs gradually began to increase. When the number crossed 100, my well-wishers asked to me to approach the government for help to run the shelter. My one-acre shelter is a rented property and hence, I have been approaching government officials to provide me a piece of land where I can take care of the animals.”
 
 Her day begins with cleaning the premises after which she prepares food for them. “I cook around 60 kg of rice every day. Their food predominantly comprises rice, bread and biscuits. I feed them by 10 am after which they go to sleep. I then step out to shop for groceries. I feed the same food in the evening. The dogs are regularly cleaned, de-wormed and kept free of ticks and fleas.”
 
 Geetha Rani has a small team that helps run the chores at her shelter. “Right from rescuing a dog, to feeding, vaccinating and sterilizing them, we do everything on our own. As soon as we receive a rescue call, we rush to the location, irrespective of the time. We have a van for the rescue act. If the dog has severe injuries, we take it to the vet for treatment, after which we bring it the shelter. But sadly, the number of rescued dogs has only been increasing. We try to give away the dogs for adoption but there are still few takers for female dogs and native breeds. They continue to stay with me.”
 
 She adds, “When people come to me with a rescued dog, I ask them for a small donation that can aid in the welfare of the dog and most of the times, they are happy to help. I take care of the rest from my own pocket. We ensure that all dogs are neutered and vaccinated.” But what irks Geetha Rani is the way certain people treat dogs. “I do not understand why would anyone pelt stones at a dog or beat it? Why can’t we just co-exist?”
 
