CHENNAI:   was not cleared in several parts of at least 12 zones in the city as a majority of the conservancy workers struck work and staged a protest in Ripon Building for the second consecutive day. The protesters led by Red Flag Union, a corporation recognised labour union, had gathered thousands of labourers demanding minimum wages, weekly day off and permanent placements for for non-muster roll workers.

 Thousands of workers staged a protest from Wednesday at the headquarters of  . When talks with senior officials of the civic body failed, the protesters stayed overnight at Amma Maaligai, the annex building of Ripon, and withdrew their protest only Thursday evening after another round of talks. “Officials asked us for some time until the present political crisis blows over,” said general secretary of the union Srinivasalu P. 
 
 “We understand even they can’t speak for us with anyone in the government now so we have temporarily called off our  , but we will protest again if our demands are not met.” Workers did not report for work on Wednesday night and Thursday morning but will be on duty from Thursday night.
 
 The striking conservancy staff say that minimum wages of Rs 320 a day is not being paid to them and that most of them are not given a day off every week. They wanted the services of 482 conservancy workers who are on non-muster rolls to be made permanent. Of these workers, 19 are dead and the protesters want compensation to be paid to their families. 
 
 Deputy commissioners (DC) for health and education M Vijayalakshmi and M  , besides regional deputy commissioner for north Praveen Nair moderated the talks with the protesters. 
 
 Vijayalakshmi told TOI: “A proposal is already pending with the government to make workers permanent. We have asked zonal officers to look into complaints regarding wages.”
 
 A conservancy worker from Tondiarpet zone, G Munusamy, said he had not been paid his January salary. “Last year we protested and the then health DC said last February that he would shift workers under the Swarna Jayanti scheme to the   (NULM) scheme so we could receive higher and direct payments,” said Munusamy. “But this happened only in late December and we don’t receive our wages on time.”
 
 Civic officials said they did not allow garbage clearance to be affected though many workers did not turn up. However, residents at Velachery and   said neither bins were cleared nor streets swept. 
 
 Conservancy in Adyar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones were unaffected as they are under private operator Ramky Enviro.
 
 
