NEW DELHI: Both the girls saw their opponents off with ease in the opening encounters and one took exactly four minutes more than the other. But that's where the similarities end.  , post-surgery, and Olympic silver winner   are charting vastly different courses. 

 Overcoming a tricky challenge posed by Lee Hsin Chia of Chinese Taipei (2110, 21-17) in the first round of Yonex-Sunrise India Open at the Siri Fort Complex, the former world No. 1 wasn't in a rush to seek shelter in the players' room. Saina, the queen of Indian badminton, is nourishing a secret goal and fielded questions as if her life depended on them.
 
 “If I can accomplish it, I will throw a party,” she said, happy and satisfied to win the first match of the tournament which she had won in 2015. She is willing to share the insight about the travails that she has gone through since bowing out of the league phase of  , and going under the scalpel thereafter, to remove a broken piece of bone from her right knee.
 
 During which period Sindhu, who knocked out Arundhati Pantawane 21-17, 21-6 here on Wednesday, wrested her throne. Winning the Olympic silver, winning the hearts of the people and winning endorsements, Sindhu is riding the crest. Thailand's Pompawee Chochuwong and Japan's Saena Kawakami together put paid to the hopes of a quarterfinal clash between the queen and the princess. The former will face Saina in the second round while unseeded Kawakami will try to spoil the party of third-seeded Sindhu.
 
 Both girls are quietly nursing the possibility of a clash in the quarters but keeping calm seems to the way forward. “Sindhu is playing extremely well,” said Saina. And Sindhu observed: “We'll compete and the crowd will cheer.”
 
 The other two contenders, Olympic gold medallist Carolina Marin and the youngest world championship winner Ratchanok Intanon, stayed on course.
 
 In the morning session, Sameer Verma enforced the upset of the day as he ousted fourth seeded Korean Son Wan Ho 21-17, 21-10. “He was carrying an injury and was finding difficult to bend down to lift drops ,” Sameer said. His brother Sourabh too had a successful opening day, showing HS Prannoy early exit. He won 21-13, 21-6. 
 
 Depleted by the absence of Lin Dan and late pullouts by Lee Chong Wei and Jan O' Jorgensen, the men's draw looks anaemic. It gives the Verma brothers and former world No. 3   the chance to make a big impact.
 
