LUCKNOW: Don’t be surprised to see sports ministry of the Yogi government holding   for traditional   like  , akhada or malkhambh in days to come.

 UP’s sports ministry has decided to focus specifically on reviving traditional local games. Sports of minister  , who is also president of Kreeda Bharti, the sports wing of Rashtriya Swayemsewak Sangh, confirmed that government would support the traditional sports to be played as they had been in the past.
 
 Kreeda Bharti had been focusing on traditional games and has been averse to promoting games like cricket that originated in a foreign land. “RSS has not been against cricket, it just wants to promote traditional Indian games,” said Chauhan, who has 40 Test cricket caps to his name as an opening partner with legendary Sunil Gavaskar and added that Kreeda Bharti had been promoting games like  , kabaddi, lazium and malkhambh, a form of marshal arts originated in India.
 
 Students of RSS-backed schools run by either VHP or other off-shoots also teach games like Bhasmasur and Ganesh Chhu. “I have not been to   shakhas, but have seen traditional Indian games being promoted at Kreeda Bharti and all these games are very good,” said Chauhan, also the vice-president of the Delhi District Cricket Association (DDCA).
 
 These games are not being played any more, an official said and added that the idea is to revive these traditional games. “We are probably the last of the generation that knew about traditional games like kho-kho, kabaddi, etc,” a 50-year-old officer at the sports directorate told TOI.
 
 “I have asked district sport officers in UP to hold open tournaments even in rural areas to tap raw talent. Traditional games like kho-kho, kabaddi and akhada (wrestling and body building) should also be revived,” said Chauhan, adding there was a time when people were seen at akhadas and dand-baithaks in villages. The directives were given at a meeting with all district sports officers of the state on Monday. But these activities are missing now, he said.
 
 Talking about his priority in the first 100 days, Chauhan said he would ensure that every coach comes to the field on time and doesn’t just sit and watch students practising. “I have instructed officials to ensure that all coaches are on the field instructing students,” said Chauhan. 
 
 
