MUMBAI: A departmental probe has been ordered into Wednesday’s incident at   where a senior official’s “discouraging words” allegedly led a family to withdraw their consent for  . Coincidentally, the incident occurred within a fortnight of Nashik’s Maharashtra Police Academy approaching the city’s Zonal Tran-splant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) to familiarize officers with cadaver donation.

 On Wednesday, the father of Sachin Yamgar, an accident victim from  , withdrew his consent to donate the 19-year-old’s organs after   allegedly told him that the hospital would earn profits by performing transplants, while the family would gain little.   representatives alleged that Kawale made the donation look mistrustful by questioning how the organs could be removed when he was still breathing.
 
 DCP (zone-1) Sudhakar Pathare said the allegations against Kawale will be probed by an assistant commissioner of police. On Thursday, Navi Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale summoned Kawale and asked for an explanation. “Nagrale also called for a meeting of senior officials and decided to hold a workshop to sensitize cops about organ transplant,” said Pathare. 
 
 Kawale refuted the allegations and claimed he had only demanded the documents required to issue an NOC. “On Wednesday, around 7.30 am, five men came to the police station and asked for an NOC for organ donation,” he told TOI. “Except for the hospital representative, no one identified themselves. They just verbally communicated, but didn’t submit an application. They didn’t carry any documents, including death certificate. When they told me it was a case of brain death, I told them to submit the certificate from hospital and a consent letter signed by the donor’s family member. I did not discourage them...only told them to submit the mandatory documents. They left and did not return till evening.” A source from the hospital confirmed that the representative was carrying the brain stem death certificate and consent letter. “Why would anyone approach the police for NOC without the brain stem certification that is issued after two apnea tests carried out six hours apart?” said the source.
 
 ZTCC president Dr Gustad Daver said hospitals should build a rapport with local police stations and educate them about organ donation protocols.
 
 
