KOCHI: Hospitals in the state may soon have to digitize all patient records and ensure minimum facilities and services to get registration. Further, if what the government proposes becomes a reality, then soon the hospitals would have to display the cost of all procedures prominently at the hospital and on their website.

 With an aim to ensure uniformity in healthcare service, the state health department is in the process of reintroducing the   (Registration and Regulation) Bill. In Kerala, more than 70% of healthcare is provided by private hospitals, dispensaries and laboratories, but there is no law to regulate their functioning.
 
 The first step to regulate the private institutions was taken by the state government after the central government enacted the   (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010. The state government in 2013 introduced the Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Bill in the assembly . Since then, nothing has progressed.
 
 The   in its election manifesto, had announced that hospitals will be brought under social sector and reintroducing the Kerala Clinical Establishments Bill is the first step towards achieving the goal.
 
 Sources said that the draft bill is ready and has been submitted to the law department for comments. “Government is committed to introduce the  .The draft is under preparation and we will ensure that the private hospitals are not harassed,“ said additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Sadanandan.
 
 Sources said that some of the key points in the draft deal with publishing the rate of each procedure on a public platform. “Rather than fix a price, we are giving the public an option to know the exact price of the procedure. They can compare rates and choose the hospital,“ said a source, who is part of the team drafting the bill.
 
 Further, to ensure that hospitals are not put to any inconvenience, the bill states that no inspection is required for a hospital with NABH accreditation. Further, it has been suggested that the registering authority has to grant registration to a hospital within 30 days.
 
 If registration is not done within the stipulated time, then it will be deemed that the registration has been granted and the officer will have to tell the government why the process was delayed. Further, to ensure social audit, it has been recommended that all case registrations have to be done online. “This will ensure that government receives reports on diseases such as malaria, TB, from even small hospitals,“ said a source.
 
 Also at the time of discharge, hospitals will have to give patients their complete medical reports. This includes diagnosis, blood test reports, treatment course available and given, medication given and post hospitalization advise. “Many hospitals at the moment, don't give the copy of complete medical report to patients and just give a brief discharge summary,“ added the source.
 
 
