Chandigarh: A day after an FIR filed by Mohali police against a the name of a   student had the racially demeaning term ‘Negro’ mentioned against his name, numerous students of African descent studying in Panjab University and other nearby institutions came to the fore to share everyday accounts of discrimination, mocking, non-consensual physical touch and incidents of unwarranted scuffles by calling them the ‘N’ word and staring that they’re subjected to in the city. 

 Students also pointed out that despite India’s globalisation and a large number of people flocking in from different nationalities, it still has two ways of looking at foreigners which are based on their skin colour. They further spoke about India in itself being a country of diversity and many skin tones, and yet obsessed with ‘skin colour’ even if that meant alienating people and communities from the country.
 
 Speaking to TOI Imandi Paulin (24), a black student from Cameroon, Africa pursuing his masters in Medical Physics from Panjab University said, “I do not face much discrimination inside the campus, because the population here is still quite diversified. But as soon as I exit the campus gate, I feel like many eyes are staring at me, making me more aware that I am different from them. A few weeks ago, I was walking on the street when two men in turbans mocked at me and called me a ‘Nigga’. Then they came close to me only to touch my hair, just because they look different from theirs.” He said to have felt uncomfortable and also mentioned this had happened many a time. “If I touch them the same way without consent, will they like it?” Paulin asked.
 
 Paulin further explained that he has faced no discrimination from teachers and other students in the university. “My roommate is nice and I feel more safe in the campus, hence I like being here.” He has spent nearly three years in Chandigarh and five years in India now.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Emmannuelle (21), a second year Biotechnology student from Tanzania studying in Chandigarh University said, “I have faced these specific groups of people treating me and my friends badly. It happens much more outside of the campus, but has happened a couple of times in campus as well. I have seen boys and girls laughing at us and swearing at us in Hindi because they think we do not understand it. But we do and it hurts.” Emmanueele has been in India for two years now.
 
 Another Chandigarh University student named Bright (31) from Zambia, pursuing his Masters of Law said, “I was walking on the street outside the other day and I saw a group of women sitting and laughing after looking at me. They also frightened me by suddenly shouting at me, but since it was in Punjabi I couldn’t make out what they said.”
 
 Taking a jibe at the cosmetic industry in India, another student under the condition of anonymity said, “Indians are so obsessed with skin colour that they talk about it is everywhere. I have also observed that they treat people with white skin more respectfully than those with dark skin. All the advertisements on the television are about using products like fairness creams to make one’s skin tone lighter. There is nothing for us. Thus, they are selling the wrong notion of beauty which preaches that only light skin is beautiful, but that is not true.”
 
 When asked about instances of shopkeepers fleecing them, most of them denied any such happening. 
 
 Giving the city residents a benefit of doubt, a student from Ethiopia said, “It’s not that everyone is bad. People are much more warm and friendly here than in the South India. I think it’s just the uneducated people who act this way.”
 
 When asked about public perception of beauty in India ever influencing their own understanding of beauty, Imandi Paulin said, “It can make you worry at times. But, I think beauty comes in all shapes and sizes. I am a black man and I love my country and my background.”
 
 It was also observed that none of the interviewed students knew that ‘racial’ offences committed against them are punishable and seemed extremely surprised when told about it. 
 
 
