Across Gujarat, anger is brewing among farmers.   have been dumped on roads as agitations erupt for  . But in the tribal hamlets of  ,   have made unprecedented gains. Charoli and custard apples are bringing prosperity as farmers break free from treacherous traders’ trap after centuries

 Bordha (Chhota Udepur): It’s a dry fruit that costs not less than Rs 800 a kg; as much as cashews or almonds. But Ramesh Rathwa, a 48-year-old farmer in the remote Manka village of Chhota Udepur, never got cash for charoli, the crunchy almond-flavoured dry fruit that he collected from the forest near his hut. For all the hard work he and his wife put in from 3am to noon, they got just few pounds of grains that would last them barely a fortnight.
 
 Like Rathwa, several generations of farmers in this tribal heartland only got grains instead of money, thanks to the centuries-old saata (barter) system imposed upon them by local traders. They perennially kept these illiterate farmers in the dark about the actual value of charoli, which is widely used to add an extra crunch to sweets like kheer, mohan thaal, and basundi.
 
 But winds of change are sweeping through these far-flung villages of Chhota Udepur, the only district where charoli grows in Gujarat. Realizing the exploitation, the forest department took it upon itself to help them earn profit through an ‘alternative livelihood through resource generation programme.’
 
 “We have been exploited for centuries. But three years ago, it was the first time I got Rs 7,000 cash profit for charoli,” says Ramesh, who built a pucca house with an extra income of Rs 10,000 every year. SK Puwar, DCF, Chhota Udepur, said: “We not only educated farmers about the value of this dry fruit but also helped them sell the produce at better rates by tying up with   and other big retailers. The profits are shared with farmers.”
 
 A decortication machine of Rs four lakh was also set up in Bordha, which has now emerged as the local hub for this dry fruit, said Dipak Tank, district coordinator of the programme.
 
 “We were taught the scientific way of plucking which gave best quality seeds. Moreover, the decortication has made the tedious process of women every easy,” said Kamlaben Rathwa, president of 11-member self-help group (SHG) in Bordha
 
 Charoli trees are spread in 836 hectares of forest in Bordha where the seeds are stored, weighed and collected by the forest department for sale. Charoli cluster includes seven villages: Manka, Bordha, Degla, Sajuli, Gabadiya, Gathiya and Runvad with every hamlet having a special team to ensure that charoli is not plucked illegally.
 
 Navsingh Rathwa, who heads the joint forest management committee (JFMC) said, “Earlier, farmers even mortgaged silver and gave additional interest on loan to buy manure and seeds. But this exploitation by moneylenders too has stopped, thanks to cash income from charoli.”
 
 Vadodara-based Spyron Masala Mills is the biggest buyer of charoli from Bordha with annual contract of 200 kg. It must be noted that charoli is collected only once a year.
 
 N Shrivastav, additional principal chief conservator of forest, project management unit, said, “The biggest gain from this programme is forest conservation. Villagers themselves preserve trees as they get extra income from them.”
 
