HOWRAH: The 36-year-old   accused of impregnating a 12-year-old girl at   in the   area was arrested on Thursday.

 Nupur Karmakar, who allegedly assaulted the girl's grandfather and ransacked her house on March 8, hours after she gave birth to a baby girl at Calcutta Medical College & Hospital, was picked up from a hideout at Purulia's Bibir Bandhpara. A DNA test will be done to check if Karmakar has fathered the minor girl's child.
 
 Meanwhile, the girl -a Class VI student -appeared before the Child Welfare Committee and recorded her statement on Thursday . She will appear before a judicial magistrate on Friday. “We have arrested the prime accused and hope to nab the rest very soon,“ said Sumit Kumar, SP , Howrah.
 
 It was on the basis of a TOI report that the state women's right commission lodged a suo motu case. It led the Howrah Rural Police to launch a search for Karmakar, who had been named in a police complaint filed earlier by the girl's mother.
 
 The karate teacher had al legedly promised a black belt and a government job to the girl and physically abused her for months. By the time her family found out, the girl was pregnant. She gave birth to a girl on March 8. That night, Nupur and his associates picked up her grandfather from the hospital and drove him to a kangaroo court at Jagatballavpur.They allegedly assaulted him and forced him to admit that he had raped his granddaughter, impregnating her. But despite suffering serious injuries ­ four of his fingers were crushed and his right eye damaged ­ he refused to own up to the crime.
 
 The karate teacher and his gang then ransacked the girl's home, forcing them to flee the area. The police rescued the girl's grandfather and sent him to a home at Hoogly's Jangipara. Nupur warned the family against lodging a police complaint. On March 18, however, the girl's mother went to the Jagatballavpur police station and lodged a complaint. Nupur barged in while she was filing an FIR, forcing her to flee.
 
 The girl's family , which had fled the neighbourhood after their house was ransacked, has returned. They have been provided round-the-clock police protection.
 
