KRISHNAGIRI:   in the   on Monday when party MLA and former minister   lashed out at AIADMK general secretary   and husband M Natarajan for claiming they played a big part in building the party .

 The dissent by Munusamy , an indication of the cracks within, immediately prompted three senior ministers to come to Divakaran's defence. A prominent AIADMK leader in the western belt, Munusamy's strong condemnation of Sasikala's family comes a day ahead of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's niece Deepa convening a press meet to announce her decision to take the political plunge.
 
 Munusamy , who spoke to reporters in his home town of Kaveripattinam in Krishnagiri district, criticized Divakaran's speech at a Pongal function in Thanjavur organized by Natarajan. Divakaran had hailed his brother-inlaw for playing “a big part“ in uniting a divided AIADMK in 1989, for being instrumental in getting back its two-leaves symbol, contributing to the party's electoral victory in 1991, and helping Jayalalithaa become chief minister of the state.
 
 “Such talk has hurt the sentiments of the 1.5crore cadres of AIADMK. Divakaran should express regret and take back his words.Claiming that Natarajan and his family were responsible for getting back the party's symbol is an utter lie,“ said Munusamy . “Attempts by such people, who were expelled from the AIADMK, to gain control over the party will not be tolerated by the cadre,“ he said, urging Sasikala to step in and check the interference by her family members.
 
 Munusamy accused Divakaran of trying to strengthen his position in the party and create a power centre.“They want to convert AIADMK as a family party .Partymen will not allow this.Sasikala should stop it,“ he said. Meanwhile, in Chennai, state ministers O S Manian (handloom and textiles), R Kamaraj (food) and C Ve Shanmugam (law, courts and prisons) said Munusamy had joined league with betrayers of the party .
 
 Manian alleged there was someone behind Munusamy who was instigating him. Defending Divakaran, Manian said he had acted as a “protective shield“ to Jayalalithaa during election campaigns.Kamaraj said partymen loyal to AIADMK will not try to pull down the party . “Munusamy has never been loyal to the party ,“ he said. “The period when he was sidelined by the leadership was longer than the time he served in the party ,“ said Kamaraj.
 
