NASHIK: Only one candidate submitted nomination on Friday, the first day of filing papers, for the February 21 civic polls. 

 Officials said 31 candidates filed the nomination forms online and they will have to submit print of the papers along with affidavits to returning officers. The last date for filing nomination is February 3. 
 
 Independent candidate   filed his nomination for Prabhag no 25 (A) and submitted his nomination to returning officer Ravindra Jadhav at Cidco divisional office. Many said most candidates did not file their nominations on Friday as it was “no moon day” 
 
 Municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna said, “Only one candidate submitted his nomination physically on the first day of the process. On the other hand, 31 candidates filled their nomination forms online, but they will have to physically submit the papers to the returning officer.”
 
 His deputy,  , said, “Even as it is mandatory for the candidates to fill the nomination forms online, but they will have to physically submit the printouts of the application, affidavit and other related documents.”
 
 Major political parties such as  , BJP, Congress and NCP are expected to announce their candidate lists within the next two-three days. 
 
 The last date for submitting nomination papers is by 3pm on February 3. Scrutiny of nominations forms will be conducted from 11am onwards on February 4 and the list of valid candidates would be announced after the scrutiny is over. The deadline for withdrawal of nominations will be by 3 pm on February 7. The final list of candidates will be announced on February 8.
 
 Earlier, there were 61 prabhags with two members for each prabhag. Now, the 61 prabhag format has been restructured to 31 prabhags. Of the 31 prabhags, there are three members each in prabhag 15 and 19. 
 
 The rest of the prabhags have four members each. All 31 prabhags have been divided into 10 parts and 10 returning officers have been appointed for those. Each returning officer has three prabhags, except two ROs, who have four prabahgs each. The candidates will have to submit their nominations to the ROs across six divisional offices. 
 
