CHENNAI: A visit to Ooty in the Nilgris in   is incomplete without buying home-made chocolates and   oil. The name the Nilgris brings home images of tall eucalyptus trees. However, the tree is not a native species and has been in the eye of a storm as it is said to be ecologically hazardous.
 
 D Venugopal of the Nilgiri Documentation Centre says eucalyptus, Australian blackwood and silver warde – all from   -- were introduced in the   in the 1850s. 
 
 They were planted mainly to meet the fuel wood needs of a growing township, despite stiff resistance from the local Europeans on aesthetic grounds. They were confined to a few chosen pockets away from water sources.
  
 In the 1950s, eucalyptus and acacia trees were planted extensively and indiscriminately throughout the Nilgiris to supply pulp wood for a rayon factory and a tannin factory in the plains.
  
 They were planted in grasslands, catchment areas, villages and private lands. 
 
 Later, eucalyptus was planted extensively with financial assistance from the World Bank. 
  
 Eucalyptus was targeted in the 1980s when water crisis first hit the district, though this tree was not the only causative factor. 
 
 The state government decided not to go far fresh plantations in 1988 due to a Save Nilgiris Campaign launched by Venugopal and others. 
  
 A ban on eucalyptus has emerged in recent years as part of a campaign against invasive species. Science is still undecided on the subject. The current global opinion is in favour of removing only those species whose harmful effects have been established beyond any doubt.
  
 According to botanists, some 400 exotic plants have entered the Nilgiris in the last 200 years. Besides eucalyptus and wattle, the list includes alder, fruit trees, fodder grasses, weeds, tea, coffee and cinchona.
 
 Venugopal, who once fought for banishing eucalyptus from the Nilgrils, now says the tree has proved to be beneficial to the local people in many ways in the last 170 years of its existence here. Eucalyptus is a poor man’s timber used widely by the local people. It is light and so an ideal construction material recommended by geologists for slope stability.
 
 
