MANGALURU: Mangaluru city police's ongoing efforts to deal with drugs and cyber-crimes have now got special teeth. Thanks to a notification from the state government, city police have now re-designated the central and north cri me police stations as specialized police stations that will deal with cyber crimes and narcotics and economic offences respectively. Complaints on these subjects in any of the 15 law and order police station limits in the city will be referred to these stations. 

 Headed by a police inspector, two PSIs, one ASI, seven head constables and 15 police constables each, the re-designated narcotic and economic offences p olice station and city cyber crime police station will ensure sharper and better focus on these cases, said T R  , city police chief. The city in the recent past has seen aroused communal passions thanks to mischievous elements who used social media to make malicious posts that pitted one community against the other. 
 
 While Muhammad Sharief is heading the narcotics and economics offenses station,   is the head of the cyber crime station. Misuse of social networks sites and apps, violation of IT Act, 20 08, economic frauds perpetrated using internet will be the sole purview of cyber crime police station. Cases registered under NDPS Act, 1985, cheating cases involving amount more than Rs 25 lakh will be dealt by the narcotics and economic offences police station, Suresh noted. 
 
 Noting that these specialized p olice stations are the need of the hour, M  , immediate former city police chief and presently IGP (CID and economic offences), Bengaluru, told TOI that the CID provides specialized training to police personnel across the state in dealing with economic and IT offences. "Cyber lab in Bengaluru set up by Nasscom and   acts as nodal centre for these intensive five-day course for policemen," he said. 
 
 Clarifying that these specialized police stations are under the district or city police unit heads as the case may be, Chandra Sekhar said the CID will extend the expertise it has to these police stations in de aling with their specific cases. "We have been providing training to range level personnel and are well placed to provide periodic training to all personnel," he said, adding that updating knowledge to deal with these new age offences is as essential as the routine physical crimes as well. 
 
