THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government envisions biodiversity conservation prioritising security of the people through public participation, chief minister   said while inaugurating the   ( ) here on Wednesday.

 “Biodiversity is the lifeline of a nation and to retain that pulse is the responsibility of every individual and society. With the support of science and technology and through sustainable development our biodiversity can be conserved and if that thought gets ingrained then the resources can be enriched,” the chief minister said. Reminding the International Biodiversity Convention held in 2015, he said a policy draft was chalked out based on that for protection of earth, soil and biodiversity development plans to alleviate poverty. 
 
 Local self-government (LSG) minister KT Jaleel said every being on this planet is crucial to maintaining the ecosystem balance, when a tree is cut it distorts the environment as it offers fresh air and provides sustenance for many living beings including humans, birds and other animals. He called for the dire need to protect biodiversity through sustainable development before its depletion leads to serious consequences of climate change. He recalled the forefathers who gave great importance to the plants and ecosystem. He also released two books relating to biodiversity conservation.
 
 With the focal theme of “Mainstreaming Biodiversity for Sustainable Development“. NBC 2017 attempts to bring out new approaches for an inclusive development considering that participation and grassroots empowerment are key drivers of equitable and sustainable development,   (KSBB) chairman Oommen V Oommen said. 
 
 A Biodiversity Caravan, a vehicle featuring the various plant species and photographs of the biodiversity including endangered animals and plants will travel around the schools and colleges across the state during the five-day-long NBC. 
 
 The event will have Vividha – Biodiversity exhibition for five days that began on Wednesday, Biodiversity Conference on two days from Thursday, Children’s Biodiversity Congress on Feb 25 and Capacity building workshops for five days which began on Wednesday.
 
 The biodiversity expo is organized in the Tagore theatre premises and will have around 100 stalls. Medicinal plants, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and environmental science departments have set up stalls.   and Coirfed also participate in ‘Vividha’. 
 
 The concluding ceremony of the conference will be held at 4pm on February 26. 
 
 
