RANCHI: The   (JSCA)   in Ranchi is banking on a new and innovative aquifer to meet its water needs during India’s third test match against Australia, beginning on March 16. 

 Bhungru, a stone walled underground reservoir built within the stadium complex, is collecting running waste water from areas adjoining the stadium and redirecting it for watering the pitch and practice turfs. 
 
 The Rs 15 lakh structure, installed by a   in December, is being seen as an alternative for ensuring round the year water supply for the 42,500 capacity stadium to maintain steady water supply gradually shrinking ground water levels.
 
 The plan for installing a rechargeable water supply, JSCA officials said, occurred after the summer of 2016 when 21 bore-wells of the stadium dried up, exposing the cricket body and its state of the art stadium to a barrage of criticism. 
 
 “The run-off water is being collected from nearby areas through pipes. The water is being sent to a recycling plant to make it fit for use. It is then being redirected to the Bhungru, where it is being stored for use,” AK Singh, the chief executive officer (CEO) of JSCA told TOI on Wednesday. Besides tapping into waste water, the aquifer is storing rainwater for round the year use and in turn is also contributing to groundwater recharge, Singh said. 
 
 The new aquifer, the JSCA said, is capable of meeting half of the stadium’s daily water needs. The 2013 inaugurated stadium houses two grounds, one outdoor net and a tennis stadium besides the main stadium that needs regular watering. 
 
 The stadium complex needs a little over 2 lakh gallons of water on a regular day. “The water requirement multiplies during a match-day and reaches up to 4 lakh gallons,” JSCA secretary   said. 
 
 However, with the test match scheduled for five days, the JSCA is making alternate arrangements to ensure unhindered water supply. “We are in touch with the state water resources department. They have promised us water as per our requirements,” Chakraborty said, claiming that the stadium will depend on the state government supply for half of its water needs for the five day match. 
 
