MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Wednesday acquitted a 24-year-old businessman accused of raping and kidnapping a 17-year-old on the grounds that he was unaware of the age of the girl he married. The court refuted the prosecution’s argument that under the special Act even if there was consent, since the girl was below the age of 18, it came under the purview of the offence of  . 

 Referring to the girl’s statement that the accused was unaware of her age, the court said, “She was between 17 and 18 years of age and a college-going student. She was aware about the acts done by her and the acts which were done with her. So, her consent for any act, if done by the accused, will not come under the purview of rape.” 
 
 The court also denied the submissions of the prosecution that since the girl was under the age of 18, her marriage to the accused was illegal. “Both the accused and victim are governed by the provisions of Muslim Personal Law and as per its provisions for the performance of marriage, there is no age restriction. The girl from the Muslim community can perform marriage after she attains the age of puberty,” the special court said. 
 
 The court also pointed out that the victim’s mother had accepted the marriage despite having registered the FIR for   when she went missing. 
 
 On April 11, 2014, the girl’s mother registered a complaint with the   after her daughter did not return home from college the earlier day. The girl’s classmates told her mother that they had seen her on the college premises in the afternoon. The following day, after speaking to a few other classmates, the mother learnt that her daughter was in a relationship with the accused. The mother also found out that her daughter would meet the man every day at the college and they intended to get married. The mother then got in touch with the father of the accused, who said that his son too had not returned home. As the accused could not be reached on his cellphone, fearing that her daughter had been kidnapped, the mother filed the FIR. 
 
 The couple eloped to Uttar Pradesh where they got married and then returned home after a fortnight. The girl’s mother got the marriage registered and later told the special court, during deposition, that she had no objection with the two living together as husband and wife.
 
 
