PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: No government agency or public sector undertaking has expressed interest to take over the 87.7-acre prime vacant land of the sick  ,  , at Pimpri.

 It has been nine months that the Union cabinet approved the sale of the land. It had specifically said that only central or state government departments could buy the land.
 
 There is considerable resentment among the 1,100 odd employees as the company’s future is at stake. While the employees had received salaries for the past 28 months through a loan of Rs 100 crore approved by the cabinet, they have not received salaries for the past five months.
 
 The sale of land could meet the company’s net liabilities of Rs 821.17 crore and help in waiver of government loans and the interest amounting to Rs 307.23 crore.
 
 General secretary of Hindustan Antibiotics Mazdoor Sangh (HAMS)   said the company management had called for tenders a few months after the cabinet’s approval. An extension was also granted, but no government agency has come forth so far. “The government is not willing to help. The company can revive only through the sale of the land. It is a complex issue,” Pataskar said. 
 
 In the past few weeks, Maval MP  , who is also the president of HAMS, along with a delegation met Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers Ananth Kumar and spoke about the revival of the company. Kumar said the revival would happen only from the sale of land. 
 
 The finance ministry is not going to help in the company’s revival, Kumar asserted. HAMS sent a letter to the company’s management, asking to allow private entities to bid, if possible.
 
 About the   taking over around 59 acres of HAL land, the civic body says it is to be reserved as a multi-functional public ground.
 
 The HAL management declined to comment on the issue.
 
 HAL was declared sick by Board for Financial and Industrial Reconstruction in March 1997. The modified draft rehabilitation scheme was approved by HAL stakeholders and the board of directors of the company. It was then submitted to the government for approval. While considering the rehabilitation proposal, the cabinet approved the sale of land to meet the liabilities. 
 
