KOCHI: Delay in availing funds and reluctance on behalf of contractors to undertake small scale works have put   (KWA) in a fix. 

 As leakages in underground pipeline networks become a regular affair in the city, the water authority has a tough time repairing or replacing damaged pipes. KWA wants the state government to ensure timely channelization of funds as part of drought relief measures.
 
 "Even for carrying out minor works the executive engineers need to get permission from higher ups. They cannot transfer funds without getting approvals. It is even difficult for engineers to take a decision on spending an amount of Rs 5 lakh. As the entire process is centralized it is difficult for timely execution of work," said KWA senior official.
 
 He also pointed out that major contractors were not keen on taking up works related to fixing of leakage and replacing worn out pipelines. "The small scale contractors who undertake such works are not paid on time. And they wouldn't have sufficient funds to pay their workers. The end result is there wouldn't be anyone willing to undertake KWA's works," added the official.
 
 The water authority maintained that there was no system to identify  . They come to learn about it when local people or media alerts them. "Leakages are identified only when water starts to gush out from the ground or when people complain about non-availability of water through pipelines," said KWA superintending engineer  .
 
 The water authority has recorded a transmission loss of about 23,000 million litres of water per year within Kochi corporation limits. Outdated and leaking pipeline networks, water theft, unauthorised connections have contributed to this non-revenue water, which accounts to a loss of Rs 50 crore per year.
 
 Though KWA considered a proposal to prepare a three-dimensional   (GIS) aided map of the distribution pipe lines in the city, the project has not yet materialised. The water authority was of the view that this system would help in tracing defects in the distribution network.
 
 KWA executive engineer   said that GIS system was being experimented at some regions of the state. "It is yet to be introduced in the city". 
 
 She said that most pipelines remain deep down in the ground. "Permission is often denied to dig the roads and carryout repair works when symptoms of leakage are seen. It is only when gushes out damaging roads and disrupting traffic that other agencies co-operate with us. This approach has to change," she added. However, KWA officials pointed out though sophisticated instruments available for identifying leakages in pipelines these staff do not have the know how to handle it. 
 
