HARIDWAR: Barring the city limits,   has seen  .   of its villages and the   a sorry figure.
 When it rains, parts of Ranipur’s Ghad area remain disconnected with the other parts of the region. Even the city areas, like Shivalik Nagar, Subhash Nagar and Roshnabad, lack civic amenities.
  However, sitting BJP MLA Aadesh Chauhan claims to have done a lot in the past five years. He alleged that the ruling Congress in Uttarakhand did not provide ample funds for the development of the area.
  “Most of the development work in the area has been done with the help of central funds,” says Chauhan.
  Pitted against Congress candidate Ambarish Kumar, the BJP legislator claims credit to a series of development projects in the area in one breath.
  Chauhan said that due to his efforts, Shivalik Nagar area of Ranipur was granted the status of nagar palika.
  The MLA also promised construction of check dams on the rivers to check the flooding.
  Chauhan also claimed credit on the construction of a national highway from Roshnabad to Biharigarh with Centre’s grant of Rs.136 crore.
  But, Congress candidate Ambarish Kumar, who was defeated by Chauhan in their previous bout, has been nursing his wounds and is likely to give a tough fight to the sitting MLA this time.
  Muslim majority Ranikhet will be a witness to an interesting contest this time.
  Kumar claims to have a strong base among the Muslims, who constitute a significant percentage of the 1.48 lakh electorate of Ranikhet. He is also banking on the anti-incumbency sentiments in Ranipur.
  Kumar was a youth Congress leader in 1970s. Later, he drifted towards   (SP) and became its MLA. He returned to Congress fold in 2014.
  An official of Gurukul Mahavidyalaya, Kshetra Pal Singh Chauhan is sure of Kumar’s victory.
  “People want a strong and dynamic leader like Kumar. He is helpful to people and knows how to get their work done,” Singh said.
  Sunil Batra, a college teacher, said: “If he can get over 20,000 votes as an Independent candidate in the previous polls, there is nothing to prevent him from winning the seat as a Congress candidate this time.”
  However, some locals were of different view.
  “Chauhan has done a slew of welfare works in the constituency as an MLA. He will win again,” a Shivalik Nagar resident claimed.
