NAGPUR: All India Institute of Medical Science’s (AIIMS) main campus project at MIHAN moved further with appointment of the project management consultant (PMC). US based agency   have been finalized through a global tender. For the first time in   history, a global tender was floated to appoint the consultant.

 Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Sciences and Human Resources director Dr Viral Kamdar, who is adviser to union minister  , said, “Perkins Eastman has been appointed as they are considered as best in setting up hospitals since we wanted a really unique layout.”
 
 The agency will be arriving in the city in the last week of February to start the work, he said.
 
 The temporary structure of AIIMS for 2018-19 academic sessions at the   (GMCH) will be finalized this month. The Centre team which was supposed to visit GMCH in January has confirmed its visit before the end of February. Kamdar told TOI, “A team from Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) will be arriving in the city after February 19. The team will seek all the requirements needed to start the academic session of first batch from GMCH.”
 
 He added further, “In one of these days we are expecting the execution of agreement to take place between PMSSY and GMCH.” 
 
 In a meeting held during July, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Gadkari had given the green signal to begin AIIMS from temporary accommodation till completion of the proposed state-of-the-art building at MIHAN.
 
 Meanwhile at the main MIHAN premises, the work of dismantling the existing wall and setting up the new boundary wall has also been completed. Tender process for constructing a four-lane road has also begun. “The four land road will be directly connecting the AIIMS premises to the adjoining Wardha Road.” Tender has been floated for dismantling a high-pressure tower at the existing land.
 
 The construction work of AIIMS campus in 150 acres land may begin from April and is going to take three years to finish. 
 
 
