Nagpur: The state government has recently formed its first task force in Gadchiroli to control the spread of malaria.

 After the malaria epidemic hit Gadchiroli in 2015, the public health department carried out a study and found that the entire district was a high-risk area.
 
 According to the study, every village in Gadchiroli has minimum 5 cases per 1,000 people. As per the central government’s norms, an area with more than two positive cases per 1,000 people is a high-risk area. At 566 villages in the district, there are more than 50 positive cases.
 
 As per the government resolution (GR) dated July 13, a committee has been formed for controlling malaria in coordination with NGO SEARCH, Tata Trusts and National Institute of Research and Tribal Health, Jabalpur. The committee will be headed by SEARCH director Dr Abhay Bang, who also heads the national expert group on tribal health.
 
 The aim is to bring down the cases to minimum within three years.
 
 Gadchiroli district health officer Dr Kamlesh Bhandari said there were 24,469 positive cases and 18 deaths in 2014, which increased to 34,206 cases and 11 deaths in 2015 when there was an epidemic. In 2016, there were 9,163 cases and 4 deaths in the district.
 
 Bhandari said, “Following the epidemic, all the 1,700 villages were categorized into three groups. Group A has 669 villages where more than five incidences were seen in a population of 1,000. Group B has 457 villages where the positive cases were between 5 and 50, while Group C has 566 villages which encountered about 50 incidences.”
 
 Bang told TOI, “The high number of malaria cases concentrated within these 1,700 villages, which became a cause of concern for chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Accordingly, the task force was formed.”
 
 “50% of malaria deaths in India are reported in tribal areas. However, tribals account for only 10% of the total population. Moreover, 75% cases of falciparum (the deadliest malaria parasite) in Maharashtra are found in Gadchiroli district,” he said.
 
 Initially, the committee will compile all the malaria data available with the government and supplement it with the one created by organizations, including SEARCH.
 
 “Not just medical experts, even the general tribal population considers malaria as a major problem. By researching on their traditional beliefs, we will try to fit in our solution or modify beliefs,” Bang said.
 
 “Under the malaria control programme, Indoor Residual Spray (IRS) is used in every village every year, but that doesn’t seem to be making a big difference. As part of the project, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be carrying out a research in insecticide resistance of the mosquitoes breeding here,” he added.
 
 
