BENGALURU: Every time a   into an  , the tragedy becomes a   that usually ends in  , rescue operations and official blame-games. 

 “This should not happen. We should stop kids from falling into borewells and this can be done by covering all open borewells,” said D M Maranna alias Shivanna, a 62-year-old progressive farmer from Gangavathi (around 375km from Bengaluru) in Koppal district. Shivanna has set aside Rs 1 lakh from his farm income to reward those who cover open borewells. “Cover an open borewell, take a photo and WhatsApp it to my number 8861318934. You will be rewarded Rs 500,” he announced.
 
 Shivanna’s campaign has started paying dividends -- he received over 90 messages claiming the reward. Shivanna, who has already given away the reward to 10 persons, told TOI: “Earlier, people in rural areas would turn a blind eye to open borewells but now they are actually searching for open borewells and capping them. If all such borewells are closed, we will save kids from dying in these borewells.”
 
 Shivanna hit upon the idea after watching the visuals pertaining to the death of 6-year-old Kaveri, whose body was recovered from a borewell after a 56-hour operation at Jhunjurwadi village in Belagavi district last week. “I wanted to do something to avert such incidents, I wanted to mobilise people to close open borewells.”
 
 Nine borewell deaths have been reported in the state since 2000, and most victims are toddlers. Though the government claims that 1.47 lakh open borewells have been closed since 2014, there are still thousands of such death-traps in rural areas.
 
 Shivanna, a father of four, grows paddy on 12 acres and earns about Rs 3-4 lakh per year. “I can afford to give only Rs 1 lakh from my income as reward for borewell closure and will confine myself only to Koppal district because of logistical limitations pertaining to spot visits for authentication of claims,” he said.
 
 The response has been overwhelming; he has been getting calls from distant Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru and Bengaluru. “Some people have even offered to provide financial assistance to help me this campaign forward. I requested them to replicate the idea in their areas instead of giving me money,” Shivanna said.
 
