SHIMLA: Nearly 90 among 300   black spots identified across   still need attention of the government.

 Road safety has become a major concern of state government with hundreds of people being killed in road accidents every year. For the scientific analysis of road accident data, state has launched Road Accident Data Management System. Besides, short term action plan for the year 2017-18 to 2019-20 and long term strategy for seven years have been prepared to address the factors causing fatalities and accidents.
 
 A senior official of the state government said, road engineering is important to avoid accidents. Highway engineers have thus been shortlisted for training, who would further train other engineers, he added.
 
 State transport minister G S Bali said, awareness about road safety norms is given utmost priority. He said, government is launching an awareness campaign in schools across the state to provide road safety education to the students.
 
 State government has directly allocated Rs 53 crore to public works department, police department and transport department under road safety. It has also created HP Transport Infrastructure Fund effective from this financial year. 
 
 PWD has already issued notification that all the road works costing more than Rs 10 crore in a single project shall have a provision of 0.25 percent of DPR cost towards road safety. Road safety ordinance on Kerala model would be implemented in the state.
 
 The official assured, remedial actions are being taken for reduction of accidents as well as fatalities. “System is functioning smoothly in the state and to collect data from field staff, 238 tablets have been distributed to all police stations and police posts which are having GIS-based computerised software system for accident data recording, storage, analysis and dissemination,” he said.
 
 He said, it is very important to observe traffic laws as a majority of the population prefers to walk or avail the public transports like buses or taxis. “The   about   needs to change for making our roads accident free,” he said.
 
