CHENNAI: An attempt by a man to rob and kill the 76-year-old grandmother of his wife, to retrieve money he said she owed him, failed when one of the woman's daughters arrived at the scene of the attempted crime in the nick of time in   on Wednesday night. 

 Police said Lily  , of Devar Nagar, Padi, was asleep on the first floor of her two-storey house and no one else was at home when three men entered the house.
 
 The men threatened Theresa and demanded that she give them Rs 1 lakh. When she refused and shouted for help, the men tried to kill her by smothering her with a pillow.
 
 But Theresa's daughter surprised the assailants by arriving at her mother's house. An investigating officer said Theresa's daughter had come to the house to serve her mother dinner, which was a daily routine for the younger woman.
 
 "She saw three men around her mother's bed," the officer said. "They were clearly trying to do harm to the elderly woman, so the daughter raised an alarm. The men panicked and bolted from the house." Theresa's daughter lodged a complaint with the Korattur police.
 
 Investigators spoke to Theresa and she told them that she had some trouble with her granddaughter's husband, a civil contractor  , over a building that she had commissioned him to construct.
 
 When police officers located and questioned Sathish, he confessed to the crime and said he had recruited three friends to rob and kill Theresa.
 
 "Sathish said Theresa asked him to construct a building a year ago," the officer said. "He claimed to have spent Rs 1 lakh of his money on the construction. Theresa was not satisfied with the work and refused to pay him any money."
 
 Whenever Sathish asked for the money, Theresa would rebuke him. He decided to loot rope in his friends to loot and kill the elderly woman. "On Wednesday night, as Sathish stood outside the house, three friends entered Theresa's house," the officer said. "If the old woman's daughter did not show up, they would have killed her."
 
 Police arrested Sathish and his friends, Santhosh, Amarnath and Rajesh.
 
