BY-Govind Vijaykumar 

 Clean, government-funded toilets are supposed to be the most visible signs of change as part of the  , but a survey following complaints from TOI's Citizen Reporters has uncovered serious lapses in the system. All respondents said they are disappointed with the toilets that have been set up at numerous locations across the city. One Citizen Reporter, Dhananjay Kulkarni, sent TOI a photo of a dead dog lying inside a public loo in Bavdhan.
 
 Citizens from all across Pune were part of the questionnaire and many are daily commuters.
 
 “I have a job in marketing and I regularly travel considerable distances within the city. And I'm afraid of using public toilets," said  , a resident of Pimple Gurav. “The situation is, in fact, hopeless. If the cleanliness of these spaces is not being maintained, what's the purpose of a taxpayer-funded cleanliness mission? Most of these loos have no running water or lights. They are not very comfortable for citizens to use,“ he said.
 
 Others said the loos were affecting the areas around them. “Why is the government collecting the cess?“ asks Clement Lazarus, a resident of Nanapeth.
 
 “Here, we have a road that's being used by hundreds of students from eight different schools in the locality. There's a garbage dump and the sewage from a toilet is flowing out into the street.Where is the improvement India's taxpayers were promised. How can the municipal commissioner claim he's doing a good job and collect a salary,“ he said.
 
 The picture submitted by Lazarus clearly shows two overflowing garbage containers surrounded by heaps of garbage bags.
 
 Earlier this year, the government had decided to install devices that allowed those using public toilets to register instant feedback.The devices are part of technologies being used to monitor the maintenance of these public toilets. However, citizens said there's very little being done, manually , to keep the toilets clean.
 
 “I'm certainly not impressed with the situation,“ says  , a resident of  . “The campaign towards a clean India can work only if citizens can use these toilets without worry... and that's definitely not happening.“
 
 Bohra works with citizen groups trying to beautify public loos and their surrounding spaces. “I once saw this group of architecture students improve the space around a public toilet in Wanowrie. These superstars of the future left every passer-by impressed with their dedication and effort. Now, when there's so much interest from the common man, why can't officials take this campaign more seriously?“ Bohra added that when approached, most officials were reluctant to act or “consider ideas".
 
 “They were extremely hesitant. Many cited jurisdictional constraints saying a particular space was someone else's charge. If that's the attitude, I'm worried. Many citizens want to be part of the change and a shift is only possible when authorities decide to think outside the box. Playing by old rules will not help create this radical transformation -it will only increase red tape and discourage positive collaborations between citizens and officials. If students are working to improve conditions in the city, they must be backed by government interest. Otherwise, they will be discouraged,“ he said.
 
 Women respondents of the survey said they make ef forts to avoid using public loos. Anushka Mittal, a student commuting a distance of 11 km every day , said she was happy not using the facility .
 
 “The loos stink. But more importantly , I believe there should be better awareness amongst the public. All around us are people who ignore rules of basic hygiene.Many leave toilets in such a bad state that it's almost impossible for the next person to use the facilities. Unfortunately , this inconsiderate behavior is rampant,“ she said.
 
 Another woman contributor -working as a software developer -said she stopped using public toilets after a fall inside a public restroom.
 
 “I was supposed to be part of an important meeting later that day -I had to miss it.When I called up my manager to explain my plight, he started to laugh. He wasn't being insensitive; things are funny in this country.“
 
