CHENNAI:   is not going overboard even after enjoying success recently. In the limited chances that the   all-rounder got in the IPL, Chennai lad impressed by playing a match-winning knock of unbeaten 63, partnering captain David Warner, against   and with his brilliant fielding skills. His   performance comes on the back of leading the Tamil Nadu side to Vijay Hazare and Deodhar trophies. Now, the 26-year-old, who has emerged one of the top four allrounders in the country, is aiming to build on last season's gains.

 With the national selectors always keeping a close eye on him, the TN captain says he is focused on improving his bowling in the off-season with the inputs which he received from Sunrisers coaching staff, including Tom Moody and  .
 
 "After the knee injury last year, I had shortened my run-up a bit and it helped me immensely. While I was bowling at 120kmph earlier, I could increase my delivery speed to 128kmph. At times, I clocked 130kmph. At the Hyderabad nets, Moody told me that my bowling could be more effective if I adjust the position of my arms while releasing the ball. He also suggested some minor adjustments to my action. So, I will be working on them," Vijay told TOI on Friday.
 
 Before the Gujarat Lions match, Vijay's only contribution in IPL was a few wondrous catches as a substitute fielder. No wonder then that he feels the 63 not out was a crucial innings of his short IPL career. "With very few chances, it sometimes becomes difficult to stay motivated. But I always keep simulating match situations in my head to stay in the zone. Since I often come on as a substitute, I remain focused about what happens in the middle. These aspects helped me to approach the innings against Gujarat calmly. There was enormous pressure too as I knew that a failure can again shut the door on my chances. But I enjoyed playing with Warner. It was a two-paced wicket and he asked me to play straight. I held my nerves and started dominating. Slowly I gained confidence of my captain and I felt happy to repay his faith," Vijay pointed out.
 
 The innings showcased a composed Vijay and he credited assuming the leadership mantle at TN for his new-found maturity. "Captaincy helped me to take more responsibility. When I went out to bat for TN, I looked at finishing the innings. I went into bat with the same mindset against Gujarat," he said.
 
 After last season's success, Vijay is hungry for more. He is even foregoing what would have been a much-deserved rest as he prepares to return to the field for Vijay CC in the VAP Trophy semi-final on Tuesday. However, he says he will be careful of not picking up another injury like last season when he was ruled out for India A's Australia tour.
 
 "I understand my body better after the knee injury. I know that I need some rest before another gruelling season. Hopefully, I will get some before the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL)," said Vijay, who plays for Lyca Kovai Kings in TNPL. 
 
