NAGPUR: The strike called on by the   ( ) against proposed amendments in the   on Friday, met with total success in the city, as a   remained absent from work. The apex body had given a nationwide strike call against amendments proposed by the Law Commission, terming them as ‘draconian and unconstitutional’.

 Only urgent mentioning of cases, bail matters and other proceedings were conducted in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, Nagpur District and Sessions Court, and other courts and tribunals. Some lawyers under the aegis of District Bar Association stages token protests in front of District and Sessions Court in Civil Lines.
 
 The legal fraternity across the country opposed the amendment which bars lawyers to from staging protests making them liable to pay compensations to the litigants.
 
 Former president of the High Court Bar Association Arun Patil informed that almost 50% of high court lawyers did not turn up. “The protest was successful. Those who did turn up did not conduct any judicial work,” he added.
 
 He maintained that urgent cases involving anticipatory bail, wrongful terminations and property possession warrants were dealt by concerning lawyers so that such litigants are not inconvenienced. “Lawyers are being painted in a bad picture everywhere which is not the case. We are always there to help people,” said Patil.
 
 The courtrooms inside the high court remained empty even though lawyers were present on the premises. They were seen interacting with clients but were not conducting any official work. A junior lawyer told TOI that he was in support of the strike as per the call given by seniors, but refused to comment further.
 
 Endorsing Patil, DBA president Prakash Jaiswal said they had informed principal district and sessions judge Pushpa Ganediwala regarding the strike and also pasted notices in this regard. “We requested the head judge that since no official work will carried out by the lawyers, the pending cases shouldn’t be dismissed in our absense,” he said.
 
 Jaiswal said he added that the demonstration was a total success as no lawyers were inclined to work today to opposed the proposed amendment.
 
 (With inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
