MUMBAI: A father’s plea to punish his   for not giving access to his teenaged   was thrown out by the   saying that his purpose seemed to be to harass her. 

 A division bench of Justice Rajendra Savat and Justice Sadhana Jadhav interviewed the couple’s 17-year-old son in their chamber and observed that the man was ‘fortunate’ to have child as ‘sensible and balanced’ like him. 
 
 The judges asked the man to conduct himself in a manner that would win him the affections of his son. “After interviewing the son, we have come to the conclusion that the grievance of the man is not bona fide and is only an attempt to harass the wife,” said the bench. 
 
 The man had claimed that his former wife was depriving him access to his son and had violated the consent terms that the couple had filed. As per the settlement signed by the couple in 2010, they agreed to dissolve their marriage with the custody of the minor son remaining with the mother. The   would be granted visitation rights once a month if the son consents to the meeting. He later moved the family court in Bandra seeking contempt proceedings to be initiated against his former wife for not complying with the consent terms. When the Bandra court dismissed his application, he filed an appeal in the HC. 
 
 The judges met the son to work out a solution. “We found the son to be of a loving and caring disposition and we have also found him to be very stable and clear in his thinking.” 
 
 The teenager told the judges that he had met his father intermittently, had spoken to him on the phone and had even stayed at his place. He added that he had no problem meeting his father as long as he does not raise his voice and berate or shout at him. “We did not find any bias in him in favour of either of the parents. However, since he has been living with his mother since 2011, it is natural that there is bound to be more affinity towards the mother than the father,” said the judges. “We found him to be sensible and balanced... (The husband) in fact, is fortunate to have a son like him, and should conduct himself in a manner which would endear him to his child,” said the judges.
 
 
