BHOPAL: A local court in Bhopal on Monday issued   against the then collector of   and superintendent of police Swaraj Puri in connection with the Bhopal gas disaster case. Issuing warrants chief judicial magistrate Bhubhaskar Yadav also imposed a bail bond of Rs 5000 on the two former officials for ‘aiding the escape’ of late Warren Anderson, chairman of  .

 The warrant was issued after the accused failed to appear before the court for the second consecutive hearing. During the hearing on November 20, 2016 on a petition filed by Abdul Jabbar, an activist working for the Bhopal gas victims’, the CJM court had directed both the officials to present themselves before the court.
 
 In its order the CJM court, observed, “after looking at all the aspects of the case it is evident that accused are aware of the fact that the summons have been issued for them. One of the accused in the case has worked as superintendent of police and other as collector Bhopal. It is for sure that they are influential people and summon is not being served to them.”
 
 “Under the consequences it is being ordered that a bailable warrant with a bail bond of Rs 5000 should be served to both the accused through senior superintendent of police,” ordered the court.
 
 The court has scheduled March 1, 2017 as the next date for the accused to appear before it.
 
 The same court in its order dated November 20, 2016, observed, “prima facie, it is evident that thousands of people were dying in Bhopal due to leakage of poisonous gases, and the head of district — the then collector and superintendent of police — were using all their expertise and the entire system not to save people but to help a criminal escape. With full planning for saving him from getting punished, they not only gave time to Anderson but helped and provided him with resources to escape the country. It is for these reasons that he could not be arrested,” the chief judicial magistrate said.
 
 Anderson, who flew out of the country on December 7, 1984, (five days after the tragedy), died in Florida in September 2014.
 
 The court ordered that a case be registered under   sections 212 (harbouring or concealing a person believed to be an offender), 217 (public servant disobeying an order to save a person from punishment) and 221 (intentional omission to apprehend) against Singh and Puri.
 
 In the petition, filed on July 6, 2010, Jabbar told the court that on December 7, 1984, when Anderson was released on bail, both the officers were quoted by media organisations as saying that Anderson was granted bail so that he could go to Delhi.
 
 
