It was a rather fun Monday evening for those Gurugrammers who assembled at Cyber Hub to listen to actor   appeal to them to cast their vote in the civic polls. The Gurgaon boy was chosen as the brand ambassador by the MCG for the upcoming civic polls, and was asked to urge people to vote. It was a rare, never-seen-before occasion for Gurugrammers as the Deputy Commissioner (DC),  , turned interviewer for the actor. Introducing the crowd to Rajkummar Rao, the DC said, "Now that Gurgaon is  , we call ourselves Gurugrammers," to which Rajkummar replied, "Gurugrammers? That sounds really cool!"

  
  HOMECOMING: Rajkummar Rao
 
 
  
 The DC asked him a couple of questions about his Gurgaon memories and what he misses about the city. Rajkummar said, "My heart is here. My family, my friends, everyone is still in Gurgaon."
 
  Rajkummar added, "It doesn't matter whether I live in Mumbai or LA, but wherever on this earth I’ll be, my heart will always be in Gurgaon. For me, home will always be Gurgaon."
 
 
  
  PLEDGE PLEASE: Rajkummar Rao takes an oath to vote along with   officials (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  The DC said, "When I meet people and appeal to them to vote, they ask me, 'Why should I vote?' And I tell them that we have to be the change-bearers. I want to tell the Gurugrammers, ki agar aap kuch nahin badlenge, toh kuch nahin badlega."
 
 
  
  
 
  And Rajkummar replied, "Exactly. We have to bring the change. It's an amazing co-incidence that the MCG elections and my movie, Newton, which is based on elections, fall in the same week. Guys, I want to tell you all that voting is the most important right that has been given to us. We, as the citizens of this country, are the most powerful people. We elect our leaders. There is no point in complaining for next five years, 'Ki kuch nahin ho raha'. Jao aur vote karo."
 
 
 
  
  Make way for voting tau!
 
 
  
 The DC asked Gurugrammers to make their Sunday a fun day, and said, "Let's not spend our Sunday in a conventional manner. Let's make it a fun Sunday at the polling booth." To make it easier for the public, the MCG has also designed an election app, Vote for MCG, on which any person can log in with his/her voter ID to know about their polling booth. Before leaving, Rajkummar asked Gurugrammers, "Kaun-kaun jaaega vote dene? Please raise your hands." And as just a few hands went up, Rajkummar said, "I know you guys are being honest, but come on, jao yaar vote dalne. Ok let's take a pledge that we will go out and vote." And this time - after the pledge - when the actor asked the same question again, everyone raised their hands.
 
 
  
  BADASS BABUAA IN GURGAON: Rajkummar takes a selfie with the crowd at Cyber Hub
 
 
  
  (L-R) Pradeep Kumar, additional district commissioner, Gurgaon and Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner (DC), Gurgaon (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
