BENGALURU: Neither   nor   will make way for a recreation club for legislators. After much consideration, it has been decided that the facility will come up next to chief minister Siddaramaiah's home Anugraha. However, this means that in all probability, the CM will have to move out due to security reasons.

 The two-acre plot, which has been lying vacant on Kumara Krupa Road, will be transferred to the legislature shortly. "The final approval is pending but we have finally zeroed in on the location.The legislators' club will be constructed on the two-acre plot beside Anugraha," said assembly speaker KB Koliwad.
 
 He said a committee has been formed under public works department (PWD) secretary M Lakshminarayana for the purpose. “The final estimates and the designs are being prepared and within the next one month, we will call for tenders," Koliwad pointed out.
 
 But constructing the club next to the CM's residence will amount to a breach of security protocol for Siddaramaiah. So will the CM shift to a new home? “It is likely. I don't know how far progress has been made on that front," said Koliwad.
 
 While the chief minister's office had no idea whether Siddaramaiah would shift out of Anugraha, the treasurer for the legislators' club committee, NA Haris, said it is possible.
 
 Meanwhile, Koliwad said the legislators' club will be associated with the New Delhi-based Constitutional Club meant for parliamentarians. “Membership will be given to all legislators, including MLCs, MLAs and MPs, to utilize the recreational facilities," said the speaker.
 
 The decision on membership for former MLAs, MLCs and MPs is yet to be taken, but is likely to be in keeping with the membership criteria fixed by the constitutional club. Koliwad said the committee will visit the constitutional club before giving its nod for the construction of the legislators' club.
 
 Legislators want membership in private clubs
 
 While the legislators' club is in the final stages of being approved, the house committee looking into the working styles of private clubs is bent upon legislators getting membership in private clubs.
 
 The committee is all set to finalize its recommendations, including the honorary membership of every MLA, MLC and MP in any two clubs of his or her choice within hisher constituency . The committee has sought an extension of one month to submit its report and will convene its final meeting on January 18.
 
