GURUGRAM: Last year, when Shrishti Sharma, a law student, observed how her college authorities managed to increase overall student attendance just by bringing two dogs on campus, she wondered if the idea could be turned into a business model. She was amused to see how the students, who were close to a burnout due to everyday stress, were able to immediately unwind in the company of their canine mates. 

 An excited Sharma shared the observation with three of her friends — Animesh Katiar (a lawyer), Arushi Dixit (a designer), and Kunal Daral (an IT professional). The four eventually decided to spread canine love, and also make some money in the process. A startup idea was born.
 
 With three adopted dogs — Muffin (a labrador), Cocoa (a shih tzu) and Angel (a golden retriever) — the four friends launched ‘The Fur Ball Story’ in December last year. The startup has been holding   sessions, a relatively new concept in India, though common in western countries, in corporate offices, hospitals and even private residences.
 
 “Recently, we held a session for over 200   of MakeMyTrip (the travel portal). In these sessions, we aim to de-stress the employees and also help them overcome their fear of dogs,” says Sharma.
 
 Ananya Nair, a MakeMyTrip employee who attended the session held on February 8, says, “We thoroughly enjoyed it. The three fur balls — Cocoa, Muffin and Angel — lifted our moods and helped us beat down corporate stress.” A similar session was held in IT company Nagarro’s Gurgaon office last month. Rijita Ray, one of the 200 participating employees, felt all energised after she attended the 10-minute session. “It was a much-needed break from the every day routine,” says Ray, who works as human resources manager. 
 
 Sharma was sure about their business model when they started. “It has been scientifically proven that a dog’s company 
 
  
  can bring down stress in humans. While   therapy is popular in western countries, there is just one organisation besides us (Mumbai- based Animals Angels Foundation) in India that organises such sessions,” she says. ‘The Fur Ball Story’ charges Rs 2,000 for a three-hour session. 
 
 The three four-legged members of the team are undergoing special behavioural training “to ensure they develop an affectionate temperament’, said their trainer, Vinod Anand. “Pet therapy sessions have a great scope in India. Therapy dogs undergo special three-month training and while five-month-old Angel will soon complete her training, three-month-old Muffin will be trained by the time he turns six or seven months. Cocoa, who is also three months old, is yet to be trained,” Anand says. 
 
 He adds that toys and treats are used to ensure dogs gradually become friendlier. The training usually starts from the time dogs reach three months. The handlers accompany the dogs during therapy sessions. “We are also training the startup co-founders so that they can gradually become handlers,” Anand, who has worked as a dog trainer in Hong Kong for four years and returned to India around two years back, says.
 
 Talking about their future plans, the team members say they will be getting more involved with the corporates as they add more therapy dogs to their team. 
 
 (With inputs from Swati Bhasin)
 
 
