GURGAON: In a major setback to the district education authorities, Gurgaon has fared second worst in the  . According to the results released on Thursday, only 52.1 per cent of students passed the examination in the district.

 While   outshined other districts, scoring a pass percentage of  ,   fared the worst. Only 47.86 per cent of students passed the examination in Faridabad.
 
 The   by   comes at a time when parents and the district authorities are locking horns with private school managements over arbitrary fee hike. “This is a wake-up call for the government. This is precisely why we get seats for our children in private schools. And this is why private schools take advantage of the situation. Owing to the rising demand for seats in private schools, managements hike fees arbitrarily,” Isha Parimoo, a parent, said, adding, “The government should invest in government schools as much as it can so that their performance is augmented. It will also end the monopoly of private schools.”
 
 The state board examination for Class XII students were held in March. A total of 9,009 students had appeared for the exams, of which 4,686 passed. 
 
 When TOI tried to reach out to officials, they declined to speak, claiming that they didn’t have all details of the results. “I don’t know anything about the results as of now. The education department deals with the matter,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, additional deputy commissioner, Gurgaon. When TOI asked if the government would order an inquiry into the shoddy performance, Singh refused to comment on it. District education officer Neelam Bhandari didn’t answer calls and reply to any text messages though TOI made multiple attempts to contact her.
 
 Members of a teachers’ body in Gurgaon blamed the transfer policy of the government for the dismal results. “Last year, the government transferred around 12, 000 government teachers,” said Sayta Narayan Yadav, a member of Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh. “Obviously the large-scale transfers caused disruptions in studies, which eventually resulted in poor results of students.”
 
 Yadav said students from other districts seek admission to most government schools in Gurgaon. “Most of them are from neighbouring districts,” he said, adding that most Gurgaon students secure admission in private schools. 
 
 He also blamed Right to Education Act’s no-detention policy as one of the reasons for poor results. “RTE dictates no student must be failed till Class 8. Such a policy encourages laxity among students, who don’t study. They know that they would be passed to the next class anyways,” he said.
 
 Overall pass percentage across Haryana is 65.4, with girls trouncing boys. Only 57.58% of boys passed the exams while 73.44% girls passed. Spokesperson for the Board of School Education Haryana said in Bhiwani the government school fared better than private schools across the state.
 
 
