PUNE: The   would be on the centre stage of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic politics after the BJP’s victory in the municipal polls, playing the dual role of “mentor” and “guiding force” for the party corporators to draft policies to run the cities.

 Till date, the Sangh had no role to play in civic bodies because the   never had the majority. With the party in complete control of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad corporations now, the RSS would be an important force.
 
 As a first step to train newly elected corporators from Pune, the RSS recently organized a briefing session at its Pune headquarters in Moti Baug. The elected members would have to follow the guideline issued by the RSS. It has set goals and behavioural code of conduct for them.
 
 The corporators would undergo training on regular basis under RSS’ Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini. The Sangh leaders would guide polices and monitor the performance of the corporators.
 
 A Sangh insider said the RSS playing the role of mentor and guide was not a new thing because the BJP MLAs in Maharashtra were going through the process. Chief minister  , himself a swayamsevak, has ensured that MLAs visit the Sangh headquarters in Nagpur during Assembly sessions held in the state’s second capital. 
 
 The BJP’s city unit chief, Yogesh Gogawale, said, “There is nothing to hide that the BJP takes inspiration from the RSS. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Fadnavis are themselves swayamsevaks and we all come from the Sangh culture. The RSS is a devoted organization and its guidance will help improve the performance of our elected members.”
 
 RSS leaders feel that those joining the BJP just before the elections and elected as corporators would adapt to the culture. Sangh veteran Aniruddha Deshpande said the number of outsiders was “controllable”.
 
 He told TOI, “The number of outsiders in the BJP is not so big. These people will also have to work and act accordingly. They will immerse in the culture. There might be some pressure to make some adjustments during elections. But all those who have joined the party will work cohesively.”
 
 He stressed the BJP would have to put up a united face and show a good performance.
 
 A source in the BJP said the party had decided to focus on infrastructure and development agenda in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and not touch sensitive issues. One of the senior party leaders said notwithstanding the demand from a section of party supporters, the BJP would not take any stand on reinstalling the statue of Dadoji Kondeo in Lal Mahal at the moment. The party would not take a stand on Ram Ganesh Gadkari’s statue in Sambhaji garden immediately either, though party   had launched an agitation to reinstall the statue uprooted by the Sambhaji brigade.
 
