Ludhiana: Showing dissatisfaction over the six-month-long term of the Congress government, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged a protest outside the mini-secretariat on Saturday. The hot and humid weather kept the turnout low at the protest site, and those present were seen looking for shade. However, BJP leaders staged these protests in all districts, and threatened to intensify them if the government did not fulfil its promises.

 The BJP leaders, while addressing the gathering, claimed that voters of Punjab — who elected Congress leaders believing the party’s election manifesto — were now feeling cheated. They alleged that farmers who were promised their loans would be written off were in a bad shape. District BJP president Ravinder Arora said each sector of society was waiting for the fulfilment of promises made by the Congress government, but even after the passing of six months, not a single promise had been kept. He said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh did not come to Ludhiana on September 6, because he could not face people now, and instead of fulfilling their promises, the party was now taking credit for schemes announced by the central government.
 
 MP Shwet Malik said the Congress government failed to curb the drug menace which the chief minister had announced he would end in four weeks. He further said: “The Congress government kept criticizing the SAD-BJP government over sand and other building material rates, but now when they are in power and the rates are soaring, none of their leaders are raising a voice.” He added that they would not let the Congress government run away from their promises, and make them fulfil the same. 
 
 SWACHHTA DRIVE IN THE DUST
 
 The BJP local leaders cocked a snook at the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign that kicked off in all cities. During the protest on Saturday, empty water glasses were thrown in the service lanes by leaders and the public. The leaders shifted the blame on the public, saying people did not understand the cleanliness campaign. However, they claimed they would get the area cleaned up after the protest. 
 
 
