INDORE: In India, where universities have turned a battleground over the right to  , students from neighbouring country of   feel that they never need to protest for their rights since everyone understand their limits. 

 This viewpoint highlights sharp contrast to the situation in Delhi, where student unions are protesting against the activities of hooliganism and violence allegedly by Bharatiya Janata Party’s student outfit,   (ABVP), at Ramjas College on February 21 and 22 over inviting Khalid Ahmed for a seminar. 
 
 Ahmed was charged with sedition in 2015, along with another student union leader Kanhaiyya Kumar for apparently raising anti-national slogans. 
 
  Students of different countries were brought out on the topic of right to   in their countries as these students have gathered here for the South Asian Universities festival going on at Devi Ahilyabai Vishwavidyalaya.
 
 Belonging to the country of happiness and known for its peaceful atmosphere, students from Bhutan too spoke on freedom of expression in their country. 
 
 “Student leaders and teachers voice their opinion regarding any problems before the student parliament, which is separate from the nation’s parliament. We discuss things there in a peaceful manner,”Dawa Tshering of Royal University of Bhutan said. 
 
 Students from Bangladesh feel that their country has recently faced the struggle for independence and consequently they value the freedom of expression and also believe that certain restrictions on expression and their right go hand in hand. 
 
 “It is a fact that sometimes truth is suppressed but, over the years, the youth power in Bangladesh has become quite strong and we work towards ending rigidity and bringing modernity in our culture. In our history after independence, there have never been any clashes or such protests to protect the rights,” Abdullah Al Zubaer Evan, a student of Khulna University of Bangladesh said.
 
 While students from Bhutan painted a picture of perfect education system and self-censorship by people, students from Bangladesh expressed the need for people to use their sense with regard to right of freedom of speech and expression.
 
