GURGAON: It’s been a while coming, and though it has chosen to arrive late, the bone-chilling   is making up for lost time.

 On Wednesday, a cloudy and chilly start gave way to blue skies and   but the minimum temperature in Gurgaon fell three notches to 3   Celsius from Tuesday’s 6 degrees. The maximum temperature followed a similar trend, down to 16 degrees Celsius from Tuesday’s 18.7 degrees. 
 
 A lot of folks enjoy their beer chilled but not the winter, since there’s no central heating to help them get through the extremes of the season. Others, however, revel in the months of harsh winter.
 
 “It’s freezing cold, isn’t it?!” exclaimed  , a training consultant who grew up in the UK. She calls herself a winter person. “This is when I come alive – in fact I start cooking during this time, and that’s what I’m doing!” she told TOI.
 
 “After 14 years here, we’re all ready for this, we know what to do.” Like all working mothers, Chaudhuri gets up at an unearthly hour, when you’d rather be tucked inside a warm quilt, or snuggled under a mountain of soft blankets. 
 
 “I have to be out by 6.30 am to take my son to school – you are forced to get out there! And then you’ve to shop, you have to buy vegetables. All these things have to be done.” Even in the days of demonetisation. 
 
 “If Gurgaonites can’t escape from this weather, we have to pace ourselves accordingly. So, I think you cannot live without a radiator. And when the sun’s out, take two chairs, sit in the front and bathe – and do Surya Namaskar!”
 
 But for families like Chaudhuri’s, the season does have its delights. “We try to make it fun. We get wood and do lots of bonfires during this time. We roast potatoes in foil. We love to do things like that — I don’t care about the cold!”
 
 Those that do care have to make do with putting on as many layers on themselves to stay cosy and warm, indoors or outdoors. Clearly, you have to be a hardy soul to survive the wintry blasts coming in from Kashmir or Himachal. 
 
 According to the met office, the cold snap is likely to continue until the weekend. Dense fog is also expected in patches but the minimum temperature, over the next three days, is likely to hover around the 5 degrees Celsius mark or below. 
 
 
