Gurgaon: In a move to undercut and unsettle Gurgaon MP and Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh, his rival and party colleague Rao Narbir Singh on Saturday brought over six Independent councillors to the   fold. Among them is Sheetal Bagri whom Rao Narbir wants as the new mayor.

 Rao Inderjit has been stressing that the Gurgaon mayor should be someone who has won the MCG polls on the party symbol. However, with Bagri formally joining BJP, Rao Narbir — a cabinet minister in Khattar government and Badshahpur MLA — says the question surrounding the symbol has now got irrelevant.
 
 Bagri was forced to contest as an Independent from ward 10 after BJP denied her a ticket, despite her family being associated with the party for quite some time. Five other Independents who joined BJP are Dharmbir (ward 21), Sunil Kumar (ward 24), Parveen Lata (ward 26), Sudesh Rani (ward 27) and Mahesh Dayma (ward 30).
 
 With six Independents joining BJP, the party’s strength is now 26, eight more than the halfway mark. Seven others supporting Rao Narbir are likely to join the party in the next few days. On Wednesday, Rao Inderjit had inducted six Independents into BJP. In the election held on September 24, the party had won only 14 out of the 35 seats.
 
 “Now that these Independents have formally joined BJP, there is no question of symbol or non-symbol. All of them are members of BJP and it is for the party to decide who will become the mayor. Also in the coming days, more Independents will be joining the party,” said Rao Narbir, hinting that he has more numbers than Rao Inderjit.
 
 According to sources, other Independents who may join BJP from Rao Narbir’s side are Mithlesh Kumari (ward 1), Pramila Kablana (ward 9), Naveen (ward 12),   (ward 14), Seema Pahuja (ward 15) and Hemant Kumar (ward 28).
 
 In fact, a couple of them, were in the BJP party office on Saturday but sought more time to make up their mind. Some of them are also seeking plum posts in return, which the party might not agree to, since it has attained majority.
 
 Talking to TOI, Haryana BJP general secretary Sandeep Joshi said, “In the end, almost all Independents will join BJP and we would like to have at least 34 out of 35 councillors on our side. All the remaining Independents who have not yet formally joined the party are in touch with us and may join us soon.”
 
 
