Statues of lions, resplendent in all their majesty, are usually seen flanking entryways or perched atop gateposts of old homes in Goa. They could be depicted midstride, or simply sitting. The Portuguese influence on these sentinels took the form of an elegant rooster or an austere soldado (soldier).
 
  This classic art form of sculptures ‘guarding’ the gates or sitting atop roofs are an embodiment of Goan heritage and aesthetic beauty.
  
  History lecturer Prajal Sakhardande suggests that the lion probably came down as a faint memory of the Kadamba era. Being the royal emblem of the dynasty, the lion was seen as an epitome of strength and courage and therefore symbolic of a ‘guard’ to be feared.
  
  The rooster or cockerel, being the national bird of Portugal, was majestically installed on the roof of Christian houses built during the Portuguese era. The soldados played the role of guarding people, as a symbolic representation of a protector.
  
  This art form found its way into Goa after the Portuguese citizenry felt the need to construct their own houses with a blend of local elements.
  
  This brought about a merger of architectural patterns, which were later adopted by Goans.
  
  There were also architectural reasons behind some of the sentinels being installed on rooftops instead of gateposts. “Saluting soldiers and roosters were actually used as practical roof elements above some houses to cover the hole created by the meeting of three to four roof tops. This hole was effectively and aesthetically closed with a rooster, soldier or just a mud pot with a large base,” says history lover  .
  
  On these statues being placed on gateposts, he says, “Since these gates existed on the compound wall around houses enclosing the property around a mansion, there could have been a need to create a scenario of opulence, right at the entry point, just like big forts have impressive gateways.”
  
  If one walks along the winding lanes of Goa’s villages, like Saligao or even the suburban Fontainhas, these gateposts with their sentinels can be seen as a mark of prestige for the occupants of that particular home.
  
  In the book ‘Houses of Goa’, Heta Pandit and   write: “In Goa, the gateposts and gateways crave attention for the architectural features that perform an ambiguous function- that of drawing your attention to the house within and intimidating you from entering without permission.” They then go on to say, "The most distinctive of all Goan gateposts are the ones with animal forms perched on top of the gateposts."
  
  Recently, Mumbai-based artist Adil Writer held an exhibition in Moira where his focus was on sentinels from Goa, Mumbai and Colombo. The installation was called ‘Gateways of the Past’.
  
  With most houses in villages today being built on small plots compared to the expansive plots of yore, a sentinel and gatepost can devour a significant amount of space, besides burning a hole in the pocket of the owner. In cities, urban architecture and restricted spaces make it a Herculean task to install them outside apartments in high rise buildings.
  
  About the silent sentinels, Colombo-based Channa Daswatte wrote in Adil’s catalogue, “Through his work, Adil begins to recognize, identify and celebrate the diversity of the human condition as did those now disappearing silent sentinels in the far growing and often faceless expanses of urbanity now being thrust upon us.”
  
  Defying this norm, however, the entrance of a company in Dr   building, which is located in the heart of the Panaji city, has two lion statues carved in stone at the entrance. Looking every visitor in the eye, the sentinels are placed at shoulder level and sport a fierce expression.
  
  Assistant executive at the company,   said, “The need to recognize and treasure old art forms of Goa inspired us to install the sentinels.”
