GURIGRAM: As the trend to   picks up in condominiums across the Millennium City,   was on Monday felicitated by the Union government under the Swacch Bharat mission for its exemplary decentralised waste management initiative.

 In a city like Gurgaon, which generates close to 800 tonnes of municipal solid waste and has a defunct waste treatment plant in Bandhwari, proper segregation of waste and decentralised treatment is the only way out to prevent garbage from piling up in open landfills.
 
 Richmond Park has, in fact, set an example for other housing colonies to follow.
 
 The upscale condominium, which has 280 houses, boasts of   at source and uses anaerobic composting that does not produce methane gas in the process. The waste is segregated into two categories within the households, kitchen waste and dry waste. The waste is then picked up daily and converted into compost over a period of 20 to 25 days.
 
 “We have managed to achieve around 95% segregation at source within the society, which is a big achievement given the initial apprehension residents had about the composting plant,” says NC Sinha, secretary of   RWA.
 
 Residents say on a daily basis, the society composts 150 kg of kitchen waste, along with dry leaves, and produces 600 kg of compost in a month. This compost is then used in gardens within the society. The society spent Rs 4 lakh for installation of the compost machine and another Rs.4,00,000 for the shed. On manpower, the RWA spends Rs 20,000 every month.
 
 “Initially we had some trouble convincing the residents about the composting plant as many residents were misinformed. However, we took a conscious decision not to make it a punitive process and focussed on constant education and awareness,” says Veena Padmanabham, a resident.
 
 “There was a lot of resistance and at one point, experts were called in from outside to quash the residents’ doubts about the composting process. Eventually people warmed up to the whole idea,” she adds.
 
 As waste segregation is done mostly by the domestic helps, the society arranged various awareness sessions for them where they were told about waste segregation. Every new resident who moves into the society is given a segregation chart which explains the process to them.
 
 For the waste besides kitchen waste, there are collection centres within the society and the waste from these centres is regularly picked up MCG-appointed agencies. There are separate e-waste collection centres as well where the residents leave their electrical waste and that is given away to government-certified agencies.
 
 Prof Shyamla Mani of National Institute of Urban Affairs, who works on Swacch Bharat mission, says, “The Richmond model worked because they established a model first and then went to the residents. In most cases, organisations start asking people to segregate without a process in place.” 
 
 She adds, “Without a plan to treat the waste, segregation serves no purpose and for the masses to adopt waste segregation and composting, people have to be educated and the processes have to as convenient as possible.”
 
 
