Nagpur:   music lovers were in for a treat as a musical evening ‘Melodies’ organized by Shri Siddhivinayak Publicity amused its audience with the songs of the golden era of Bollywood. The event was held at Scientific Hall, Laxmi Nagar on Tuesday.

 More than 100 people attended the event wherein eight amateur singers presented their vocal skills. Sameer Pandit, organizer of the event, said, “Through the event, we aim to provide a platform to the budding singers to follow their passion along with living their mundane life. Our major aspect is to bring out quality talent and give the spectators a spectacular musical night. The programme also brings individuals together to celebrate the essence of music and share ideas regarding the improvement of the musical scenarios in the city.”
 
 The greenhorn singers expressed their delight over the turnout of the audience. Pallavi Damle, one of the singers, said, “Such events promote the hard work of budding singers and provides them a chance to showcase their talent. With the people getting busy day by day, such events gives public an opportunity to sit back, relax and enjoy their favorite songs.” The other singers were Abhijit Pophale, Sulbha Mandekar, Vandana Deshbhratar, Sangita Karmarkar, Murlidhar Kalway, Anushka Kale and Ravindra Pande.
 
 Pande, who enthralled the audience with ‘Zara Nazon se Kehdo ji’, said, “The golden era of Bollywood is loved by all, irrespective of age. People connect to the famous songs of that era due owing to the soulful lyrics. We are also honouring and celebrating the work of legendary musicians like Mohammad Rafi, Lata Mangeshkar, RD Burman and others. The event is a stage that aims to groom tyro singers and guide them in their musical journey.”
 
 Some of the songs that forced the audience to groove were ‘Do lafzon ki hai dil ki kahani’, ‘Sajana hai mujhe sajana ke liye’, ‘Aapki Ankho mein qaid’, ‘Ek main or ek tu’, ‘Phoolon ke rang se’ and many more. The musicians who gave soul to the lyrics were Yaza Rathod, Prakash Chauhan, Robin and Mahendra Vatulkar. The singers also presented acoustic, unplugged version of some of the songs, with the playlist quickly becoming everyone’s favorite.
 
 Quotes:
 
 The singers wove magic through their mesmerizing voices. The peppy hits from the 70s and 80s were enthralling and I took a walk down the memory lane.
 
 Mamta Rathod | Housewife
 
 I feel that music has a healing capacity and love to attend such programmes for a soothing experience.
 
 Rajesh Saratkar | Academician
 
 The fast numbers made me tap my feet to the beats and I could not resist applauding the artists. I felt really nostalgic.
 
 Vrushali Deshpande | Media Firm owner
 
 
