Twitter is a different world altogether. This world has its own set of rules and regulations. And if you are a celebrity, the game only gets tougher -with all the negative comments, trolls and memes. There have been several celebrities who have dared to join the world, but couldn't take the pressure and decided to quit.The latest one being the Shape Of You singer,  , who in a recent interview to a tabloid, told that he is off Twitter completely .When asked for a reason, he said that there's nothing, but people saying mean things. One comment ruins the day . But there is still some good news for Sheeran fans.Well, the singer will be active on Instagram. Back home, there are several celebrities who have taken a similar decision. Read on...

 
 
 Vishal, who is the general secretary of the Nadigar Sangam and the president of Producers' Council, quit Twitter after the jallikattu protest that made the nation take notice of Tamil Nadu. He had allegedly supported PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), which has been campaigning against jallikattu.This got the actor a lot of flak and finally he decided to quit Twitter.
 
 
 
 The actress, who was seen in movies like Siva Manasula Sakthi and Naan, was also embroiled in the #SuchiLeaks controversy by singer Suchitra. When she confronted the issue on her Twitter page, Anuya in a recent interview to us said that she was forced to quit Twitter because she was unable to shut people's mouths.
 
 
 
 The singer might be back with her new music video, but a few months ago, Suchitra was nothing less than a controversial queen. From her account, some obscene photos and videos of celebrities were posted, which didn't go down well with several people from K'wood.Following the issue, the singer had announced that her Twitter account was hacked and since then she has been off the site.
 
 
 
 He put out 24 tweets before he finally decided to quit the microblogging site. The singer came out in support of actor and Lok Sabha member, Paresh Rawal, who had made a controversial statement about Arundhati Roy.Similarly, singer Abhijeet had also commented about JNU student activist, Shehla Rashid. Sonu Nigam was trashed for his political views, following which the singer decided to finally call it quits.
 
 
 
 Tollywood star Ram Charan quit Twitter a few years ago. After his wedding, he had tweeted about his short vacation to Italy with his wife.Following that he decided to quit the micro-blogging site, as the actor is said to have disliked the negative comments and abuses he was receiving.
 
 
 
 Controversies or trolls never bothers RGV. The director who had joined Twitter in 2009, decided to bid adieu to the site recently. He posted saying, “My pleasantly unpleasant surprise is I am getting out of Twitter...To all my followers, no thanks for following me all these years.“
 He added saying, “This my last tweet before my tweet death..but I will not RIP nd seriously work from now on @RGVzoomin Birth:2752009 Death:2752017 (sic).“ However, he is active through pictures and videos on Instagram. 
 
