JODHPUR: The officials of JDA and JMC are leaving no stone unturned to make chief minister   feel good during her two-day stay in Jodhpur where she will participate in the BJP working committee meeting on April 30 and May 1.

 Officials and political leaders are on their toes ensuring that the CM faces no inconvenience during her stay. Keeping this in mind, entire route she will be passing through is being decked up.
 
 According to BJP president (city) Devendra Joshi, the BJP meeting will be held at Hotel Orchid on Jaipur-Jaisalmer bypass. Following this, Raje will attend a yoga session in Samrat Ashok Udhyan.
 
 The perpetual craters on Jaipur-Jaisalmer bypass have been plugged and all the encroachments along these roads have been removed in the past four days.
 
 On Friday also, the encroachments along the road from Pal Road crossing to Samrat Ashok Udhyan were removed by JMC on war footing.
 
 The broken roads are being patched, dishevelled dividers are being repaired and painted, non-functional street lights are being fixed, piles of litter are being cleared and the encroachments obstructing traffic are being removed for Raje.
 
 According to Joshi, a road show has also been planned wherein the chief minister will mount an open jeep and pass through the Walled City. The road show will symbolise celebration of recent progress on refinery in Pachpadra.
 
 The officials inspected the route of road show along with   in order to identify any civic lacunae and rectify them in utter disregard to the long-pending complaints of the people on the same route.
 
 Before this, JDA chairman and commissioner also visited the Samrat Ashok Udhyan, which was crying for administrative attention since years, and gave directions to the officials to spruce up the place.
 
 Last time also, the civic administration of the city had swung into action like never before just to appease Raje during her two-day visit in December 2016.
 
 Surprisingly, the otherwise cash-strapped JDA had opened its coffers to rectify all the civic shortcomings at locations covered under the chief minister’s itinerary. It was visible in unwarranted carpeting of a few roads and other cosmetic works without even seeing the jurisdiction of departments. However, all these sanctions had been stalled immediately after the completion of Raje’s visit by JDA officials citing cash crunch.
 
