Trichy: In the operation launched by the city police against pickpocketers on buses since last week has led to the arrest of five and recovery of amounting to around Rs 6 lakh. 

 A statement issued by the city police said that the offenders arrested were involved in pickpocketing incidents which took place since the beginning of this year. 
 
 On January 16, R Adaikkaladass from Anna Nagar in Trichy lost Rs 8,900 when he was travelling from Chathiram bus stand to Anna Nagar. Another victim S Indira from Srirangam was robbed of Rs 1.59 lakh while travelling to Srirangam from Chathiram bus stand on March 20, 2017. Both of them had lodged a complaint with the Fort police. 
 
 Police arrested M Siva, 35, from Thiruverumbur, and C Karthik, 27, from Ponnamaravathi in Pudukkottai, in connection with the two cases. The police also recovered Rs 2.88 lakh in cash from them. 
 
 The Palakkarai police had received complaints from K Sasikala of Dheeran Managar in Trichy and S Sivaranjani from Karaikudi in Sivagangai district earlier this year in January and June respectively. Both Sivaranjani, who lost Rs 15,000, and Sasikala, who lost Rs 20,000, were robbed while travelling from Central bus stand to Chathiram bus stand. 
 
 Police said that M Ravi, 33, from Thiruppathur from Sivagangai district was the culprit involved in the two incidents. The police arrested him and have recovered Rs 35,000 from him. 
 
 Two complaints were lodged at the Gandhi market police station - I Sahayamary from Muthandipatti in Thanjavur filed a complaint stating that Rs 1.86 lakh was stolen from her on board a bus from Chathiram bus stand to Sengipatti on March 18, while R Amuldass from Kattur in Trichy lost Rs 40,000 cash during his journey from Chathiram bus stand to Thuvakudi on July 18. 
 
 The police said C Vengidu alias Vengidusamy, 50, from Thirupputhur, was the accused in both the cases and have recovered Rs 2.26 lakh from him. 
 
 Cantonment police have solved two   cases, one filed by S Sarfunisha, 55, from Thennur, and the other by R Gunasekaran, 46 from Inamkulathur, both from Trichy. Sarfunisha was robbed of Rs 20,000 during a journey by bus from Jain corner to Central bus stand on March 13. On March 28, Rs 30,000 was stolen from Gunasekaran’s baggage when he was standing at the Central bus stand. The Cantonment police have arrested P Sevugan from East Boulevard in Trichy as the accused and recovered Rs 50,000 from him. 
 
 The police said that the arrests were made in a weeks time and Rs 5.99 lakh in cash was recovered. 
 
 
