CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s decision to shuffle four senior   has triggered an   of sorts in Punjab Police on Tuesday.

 The CM had on Monday shuffled four senior cops and in the process rehabilitated two 1988 batch-mates who have not enjoyed best of relations with police chief Suresh Arora for the past two years. But the DGP on Tuesday asked the two officers — Iqbal   and Rohit Choudhary — not to take charge on their new posts.
 
 There was confusion at the police headquarters in Sector 9, Chandigarh, on Tuesday as Sahota and Choudhary did not reach their new offices at administration and law and order departments respectively till afternoon. The two officers who were to replace them — 1992-batch IPS Gaurav Yadav (in place of Choudhary) and 1985-batch IPS Hardeep Dhillon (in place of Sahota) — too waited for their predecessors to vacate the offices till late afternoon.
 
 Sources in Punjab Police said Arora had called Sahota on Monday evening to tell him that he disapproved of the CM’s transfer orders. He then called up senior men in chief minister’s office (CMO) to express his displeasure. However, the CMO did not relent. Amarinder's chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar asked Arora to comply with the CM’s order.
 
 By 1pm, both Sahota and Choudhary were told to take charge.
 
 There has already been discomfort in Punjab Police top machinery as several DGP-rank officers, including 1985-batch IPS  , 1986-batch IPS batchmates Jasminder Singh and S Chattopadhyay, 1987-batch IPS M K Tiwari, V K Bhawra and SR Reddy have been ignored for plum posts. Further, men who enjoy close proximity to Arora, including 1987-batch Dinkar Gupta and B K Uppal, were made intelligence and vigilance bureau (VB) chiefs. During SAD regime, Gupta had enjoyed the plum posts of law and order, security, and traffic but came under criticism after he did not turn up at the Dinanagar terror attack spot in Gurdaspur.
 
 After taking over as CM, Captain had allowed Arora to continue as police chief despite his failure to solve four assassination cases, including that of RSS vice-president V P Gagneja, and Namdhari sect head Mata Chand Kaur. Security lapses were also pointed out immediately after the terror attacks at Pathankot and Maur.
 
 Sahota was last week shifted out by Arora from key bureau of investigation (BOI) wing to an insignificant post in internal vigilance cell. In 2016, Arora had made an attempt to divide the BOI into two wings, forcing Sahota to write a letter stating that the move would be a violation of Punjab and Haryana high court order.
 
 Choudhary too had a run-in with Arora after he had pointed out how Punjab Police had missed four specific   alerts ahead of the Pathankot terror attack. 
 
