AHMEDABAD: Those desiring a ride on the Metro will have to wait at least until 2018 before they can board the train from Vastral to Apparel Park in  . The state has plans to have the first Metro trial run by October this year, but the commercial run of the train will have to wait as the final nod from the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS), takes over 18 months.

 Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who inspected the progress of the Metro project said that the government was committed to have the trial run of the 6.5 km priority corridor from Vastral to Apparel Park by October. The chief minister said work was going ahead at a satisfactory pace.
 
 I P Gautam, managing director of   for   and Ahmedabad (MEGA) said, “After the trial run, the approval of CMRS takes around 18 months time and hence one has to wait long for the commercial run. In case of Jaipur, the trial run was conducted in 2013, but the approval for commercial run has just come in.” 
 
 Gautam said the project was delayed only because the earlier UPA-led Union government did not give approval. “In case of Lucknow the work began even before the approval of the DPR and in case of  , the state was asked to first submit the DPR and then begin the work,” said Gautam.
 
 Rupani, who observed the presentation of the whole project at the Apparel Park Depot said that French mass transit and rail engineering company Systra SA-led consortium has been roped in as the general engineering consultant ( ) for the first phase of the Ahmedabad metro rail project. He said that the pillars near the Khari Cut canal were being given special treatment to protect them from effects of polluted and acidic water which flows in the canal. 
 
 He said that according to instructions from Modi, the track of this project will be parallel to the railway track and surrounding land of Railways. Hence, work parallel to the track at Gandhigram Railway Station would take place in dense areas such as Ashram Road. Most of the work of land requisition has been done and the project is in full swing. 
 
 
