While the   government had participated in the   with much fanfare last year, this time the state's government has decided to skip it. Citing lack of time for preparation to participate in the festival this year, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, principal secretary, Information, UP, said that there will be no participation from the state at the French film festival. 

  A proposal was sent to Navneet Sehgal, former principal secretary, Information, in March this year by the Film Facilitation Office of the National Film Development Corporation, to participate in the Marche Du Film (Cannes Film Market/Marche) which is held alongside   Film Festival. But the present state government has turned down the proposal. "At the moment, there is no plan. Cannes Film Festival will be held in the middle of this month, abhi ek mahine ke andar hi hai, and because we have to form the film policy, we will not be able to participate this time. But we will see what national programmes we can be part of this year," said Awasthi. 
 
  
  
 
  Talking about the state’s participation in the Cannes Film Festival last year, Awasthi said that the government would first like to take stock of how beneficial the visit was of the officials of the UP   to Cannes to promote the state and its film policies there last year. "Last time, Cannes mein agar pradesh se log gaye thay toh uss cheez ka state ko kitna benefit hua tha, that we will have to review. Apart from that, we will also have to see how to leverage that (the state’s representation at the festival) and that is time-consuming because no one has leveraged that till now. But we will do that now and see what exactly we can actually bring back from there in terms of bringing international film projects to UP. And the time to plan all of that and do that is very less now, that’s why we are skipping Cannes this year. It is a little premature also because our committees etc, for the film policy are still to be formed. We will also take time to form the Film Development Council. All that will take us around two months and Cannes is just around the corner."
 
  
  A story published in our Lucknow edition in April 2016 about UP's film policy being promoted at Cannes last year
 
 The state government is also planning a film institute in Lucknow, as was stated by Awasthi, who said, "We have already made a presentation before the CM regarding the proposed film institute in Lucknow. When Venkaiah Naidu ji was in Lucknow, unse bhi hum logon ne request kiya tha ki hamein FTII jaise institutes se bhi sahyog mil jaye. Agar ek formal sahyog aisi sansthanon se mil jayega toh that will make a lot of difference to the film institute that we are planning."
 
 
 And it's not just the UP government’s participation in the French film festival that will be reviewed. According to Awasthi, the existing film policy will also be reviewed soon. 
 
  The film policy formulated by the previous state government doled out a subsidy of up to Rs2 crore to a filmmaker for shooting more than 75% of the film in the state. "Obviously, promoting the state as a destination for films will be in the policy that the government makes, but the Film Development Council will be reconstituted," shared Awasthi, adding, "The current film policy will also be reviewed, but obviously to promote films and to see what can be done to improve upon it. We haven’t done it yet; that will take around two months."
 
  
  
 
  Notably, Uttar Pradesh has been given the Most Film Friendly State award in the 64th National Awards, this year. Talking about the subsidy to be given to films like 'Jolly LLB 2', 'Nil Battey Sannata', 'Bareilly Ki Barfi' and 'Behen Hogi Teri', Awasthi, who is also the chairman of the UP Film Bandhu, said, "We are yet to see all the papers of these films. In fact abhi woh poore kaagaz sab films ke aaye bhi nahi hain. Jo status hamein bataya gaya hai, according to that, the paperwork of a lot of these filmmakers is still pending. So woh sab cheezen ab ikattha ki ja rahi hain. We also have a new team of officers, so we'll take the call with the new team and will review the subsidy bit too. We will review these papers and if required, have an open house with the filmmakers to keep things transparent. After that, we'll take the call of giving subsidy."
 
  This decision of the government will affect around 200 filmmakers who have submitted their papers for subsidy for their films. This includes films that have been shot, are being shot in UP and also those which were announced and cleared by the script committee of the Film Bandhu, but are yet to be shot. 
 
  The Script and the Finance committees constituted during the previous government also stand suspended, with new committees to be reconstituted.
 
  
  A September 2016 story in our Lucknow edition about the UP government’s film policy
 
 
 
