PUNE: The Pune rural police have been unable to pinpoint suspect Santosh Kumar Gupta’s alleged role in the murder of techie Antara Das even 12 days after securing his remand in their custody.

 On Monday, first class judicial magistrate H Y Kawale at Vadgaon Maval near here ordered Gupta’s remand in magisterial custody. The suspect was later sent to the Yerawada jail. “Ample custody has been given to the police,” magistrate Kawale said, turning down investigating officer and assistant police inspector Satish Hodgar’s plea for two more days of Gupta’s remand in police custody.
 
 Hodgar’s plea that the police needed Gupta’s custody to investigate the possible role of his associates in the murder failed to convince the court on granting yet another extension to his remand.
 
 Later, Hodgar told TOI, “We will continue with our probe. The police are yet to receive the Central Forensic Science Laboratory’s report on Antara’s cellphone and the clues anticipated from this will have to be investigated.”
 
 Lawyer Santosh Gunjal, who represented the suspect, said, “We will soon move a bail application with the Pune sessions court after Gupta’s family members arrive here from their native place in a day or two.” Gupta will remain in jail till the court grants him bail.
 
 Antara, a software engineer with IT firm Capgemini, was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant barely a few meters away from her office campus at Talawade while she was walking back home on the night of December 23.
 
 Her family members told police that she was being harassed and stalked by Gupta, who is also a techie, for the last few months. Gupta came in contact with Antara while the two were undergoing training in a company in Bengaluru before she moved to Pune to join Capgemini. The   police initially probed the case before the Pune rural police’s local crime branch took over.
 
 A Pune rural police team picked up Gupta from his office in Bengaluru and brought him to Pune, where he was formally arrested on December 28. The following day, the Vadgaon Maval court had remanded him in police custody till January 4 and it was later extended till January 9.
 
 Gupta has claimed innocence and has maintained that he was in Bengaluru at the time of the murder. He even provided   footage about his presence in Bengaluru. The police are since investigating if Gupta got someone else to execute the crime.
 
 
