SURAT: If all goes well, the terminal building of   will be extended for facilitating more number of passengers. 

  (AAI) plans to expand the existing terminal building at Surat airport, keeping in mind the increase in passenger traffic and future requirement for international flight operations. 
 
 At present, the terminal building is spread over in 1,500 square meter of land. The building is utilized for catering to domestic passengers. However, same area will be required for creating departure and arrival facilities for international operations.
 
 Recently, the AAI wrote to Director General of   ( ) proposing to notify Surat airport as customs notified airport for commencing international operations of passenger and cargo by the first quarter of 2017. 
 
 Regional executive director (western region) of AAI, K Hemalatha dashed off a letter to the DG, CBEC requesting to issue a notification for Surat airport as customs notified airport for carrying out international flight and cargo operations by first quarter of 2017. 
 
 Hemalatha stated that the AAI has identified Surat airport in the WR to be having strong potential for international flight operations. She further stated that the identification of Surat airport is based on interactions and data provided by Southern   (SGCCI), travel agents, airlines and AAI’s own assessment. 
 
 At present, Surat airport has only domestic connectivity to Mumbai and Delhi. As per a data, during the year 2015-16, about four lakh passengers from Surat travelled to international destinations through Mumbai and Ahmedabad airport. Surat also has good potential for air cargo. As per the data, about 7,000 metric tonne of cargo is currently airlifted via Mumbai. Therefore facilitating direct airlifting of cargo from Surat is sure to benefit trade and industries. 
 
 As per the AAI, the airport is fully equipped to cater to 500 passengers per hour, the runway extension of 2,905 meter is likely to be completed by 2017, the airport is equipped with instrument landing system, night landing, operational, fire safety, navigation, meteorological and ATC facilities.
 
 “The AAI headquarters is working on the plan to extend the existing terminal building, keeping in mind the future requirement of international operations from Surat. We are expecting the building to be extended by almost 1,500 square meter,” said airport director Pramod Kumar Thakre.
 
 
