Former England batsman   was known for his footwork and skills against spin bowling. Nevertheless, why such a prolific batsman at the county level could not replicate his success in the international arena, remains one of cricket's biggest mysteries. 

 He scored a mind-boggling 35,659 First Class runs at an average of 53.14, including 114 centuries. Compare that to the 52 Tests he played for England over 11years in which he scored only two hundreds and averaged a paltry 27.32, and something seems amiss. "When I look back now, I wish I enjoyed playing a bit more," he said on the sidelines of the third one-dayer between   and   at the   on Friday. Ramprakash is the batting coach of the England senior Test side and was asked to accompany the juniors on their India tour. "I am enjoying coaching and trying to help. It's very rewarding to give. You're giving all the time to the players. I wake up feeling enthusiastic about the day and what it will bring. I'm very lucky," he said. 
 
 He's often said that he was a perfectionist who was hard on himself. And in some way , that contributed to his failure at the international level. As a batting coach now, he's trying to give the players what he didn't get. "In my days, as a player, I didin't have much communication with the coaches. For me, the players must give and coaches must give too. It is a twoway relationship. When I look back at my playing career, I never really felt that two-way relationship was ever established with any coach. 
 
 "Now, I only try to build friendly relationships with players where they can feel more open and confident about talking to a coach," he said. Cricketers now are given long-term contracts and are not dropped immediately after a poor performance. It eases the pressure and instills confidence in them. That leeway is something Ramprakash never really got. 
 
 "In county cricket, we knew we were in the team, and we felt relaxed and we enjoyed playing. In international cricket, it was different with the TV cameras, big crowds and more. If things don't go well early , it can be quite a difficult place to succeed. 
 
 "Belief is so important in international sport and going in and out of the team is very difficult. Because, when you get reselected, the pressure increases. I got selected very young at 21, in the first of the five-Test series against West Indies. When I look back at that, especially with me being a coach now, I do wonder whether that was the right time to introduce a young player," he said. 
 
 So does he try to instill belief in young players as a coach? "I find a lot of the players now are quite mature in the way they carry themselves. With the first team, people like   and   were quite mature, quite level-headed from an early age. That really impressed me because I don't think that was the case with youngsters coming through like that 15-20 years ago. It was a different world.There is a lot of encouragement and support now," he said. 
 
 That's something that the England Cricket Board (ECB) has taken very seriously. They have a 11-member support staff for the 14-member team touring India.
 
 
