TRICHY: In the ongoing numbers game in AIADMK, general secretary   may boast of an edge, but at the grassroots level, it is chief minister O Panneerselvam who seems to have struck a decisive chord. This was evident in the opinions expressed by farmers and jallikattu enthusiasts who spoke to TOI on Thursday. 

 Farmers generally were angry over the state and central governments’ non-committal attitude towards weeding out issues concerning the agriculture sector in the state. However, they had a good opinion on the interim chief minister O Panneerselvam for some of his actions during his current tenure. A section of farmers appreciated Panneerselvam’s deft handling of issues with the neighbouring states like that pf Cauvery water and Krishna river water. His efforts to declare the state as drought-hit and seek relief fund from the central government were also appreciated. 
 
 “Being the follower of his late leader J  , he had done many things emulating her. Getting things done through legal battle was her style and Panneerselvam followed in her footsteps and to some extent even succeeded in it. That was because of his experience as minister for PWD, finance and CM too,” said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R Vimalnathan.
 
 However, the farmers expressed their strong displeasure at the standstill of governance in the state following the turf war in AIADMK. They refused to comment on Sasikala thus indirectly expressing their disapproval of her attempt to ascend the CM’s throne. Instead, they showed their anger by criticising the state government. President of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association Cauvery S Dhanapalan said that even in the Cauvery issue, it was the Supreme Court that tried its best to reinstate justice for the farming community in the state. It was another story that none of the court’s orders were implemented by the neighbouring state. 
 
 “Already 11 lakh acres of crop has completely withered and drinking water problem is worsening. However there is no one to hear our cries. The governor should do something to reinstate governance in Tamil Nadu”, said Dhanapalan.
 
 The handling of jallikattu protests also turned in favour of Panneerselvam giving him an edge over Sasikala in public support. Jallikattu enthusiasts and organisations largely credited Panneerselvam for bringing about a permanent solution to the holding of the state’s traditional sport.
 
 G Senthil, a bull owner from Thiruvanaikaval, said that a solution to the jallikattu issue may not have been found if   was not the chief minister. “Let alone explaining jallikattu issue, getting appointment with the chief minister or the ministers was a herculean task when Jayalalithaa was alive,” he said. 
 
 The way jallikattu issue was handled by the chief minister shows how he has evolved as a leader and an able administrator over the years, said state president of Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam T Rajesh. 
 
 “When we met him over the jallikattu issue, he asked for our opinion on the whole issue and ensured that things fell in line after consulting legal experts. He said he had a personal rapport with the prime minister and ensured that we get necessary clearance from the environment, home and law ministries for the jallikattu ordinance,” said Rajesh. 
 
 Staing that there is no doubt that O Paneerselvam will be an able administrator, S Manoharan, owner of a jallikattu bull in Srirangam, said that “the way he handled Vardha cyclone issue, Palar river issue, or the crude oil spill in Chennai shows that he is capable of running the state.”
 
 Speaking on request of anonymity, the leader of a jallikattu organisation in Trichy said that it was true that for the first time in the history of the state, an ordinance for jallikattu was passed right after the Governor’s speech but that didn’t happen only because of Panneerselvam. There were many factors and even AIADMK general secretary VK Sasikala had written to the prime minister in this regard.
 
 
