LUCKNOW: Of the three major players,   is the one still without a CM face, even after dates for   were announced on Wednesday. On the other hand, with no end to internal bickering in the Samajwadi Party, it’s not clear whether or not   would remain the   of a new, divided or unified   in days to come. 

 Winning UP election being the utmost priority, the BJP leadership might rethink its strategy and project a CM face after assessing its situation in the next two to three weeks. Till then, the BJP think-tank is preferring to highlight Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s face the way it did during  . 
 
 Officially, BJP leaders claim there is no dearth of CM probables in the party, claiming, “Every party worker has potential to become CM.” 
 
 Around this time last year, name of Rajasthan governor and former UP CM Kalyan Singh was in the reckoning but when Election Commission of India announced the poll dates in the five states including UP on Wednesday, a day before his birthday, the former CM said at his official residence in Mall Avenue, “I already hold a constitutional post, so it is not right to discuss my aspirations.” 
 
 A day before BJP workers gather to give him birthday wishes, ticket aspirants were making a beeline to the Singh residence. 
 
 “I can't make any committment, so I am just giving them an ear,” Singh told TOI. To a question on who thinks could be the party’s CM face, Singh said: “The party has experience of winning and losing elections with or without CM face. If the party wants, it will give it a thought later.” 
 
 Citing an example, the Rajasthan governor said the party won elections in Maharashtra without projecting a CM face but lost in Bihar. Similarly, there was a CM face in Delhi but it lost the election while in Assam it emerged victorious. UP in charge and Rajya Sabha member Om Mathur had been more candid and had advocated contesting election under collective leadership. 
 
 An election in a state like UP has always been hard to predict with so many political complexities coming into play, a political observer said, adding that in such a scenario even parties will find it difficult to judge what would be the best bet. 
 
