PANAJI: With the season’s first charter is set to arrive on October 1, from Moscow,   minister Manohar Azgaonkar on Friday informed tourism stakeholders that the government is taking corrective measures to resolve the issue of slot allotment for charter flights at the Goa international airport, Dabolim. 

 Director, Goa international airport, Dabolim, B C H Negi told TOI on Friday that operators have confirmed the arrival of 31   for October.
 
 On his arrival in the state after attending tourism trade fairs at Moscow and Paris, Azgaonkar met with chief minister Manohar Parrikar and discussed issues concerning charter landings.
 
 He later issued a statement saying, “The chief minister has assured that all corrective steps will be taken and issues will be resolved so that Goa has a good charter season this year,” adding that tourism stakeholders need not panic. 
 
 TTAG and charter operators had alleged that with the Navy extending non-flying hours to Saturdays and Sundays, not only had the schedule of charter flights been disturbed, but it also entailed additional expenditure for charter tourists as they would now be forced to extend their Goa stay by two days. 
 
 “Last season too, the runway used to remain closed during weekends on the instruction of the Navy,” Negi said, adding that the runway will remain closed between 8.30am and 11am. 
 
 President TTAG Savio Messias said he anticipated as much as a 50% drop in charter arrivals due to the change in the schedule effected by the Airport Authority of India (AAI). 
 
 Some charter operators, who had earlier predicted a 25% increase in charter arrivals, said they were no longer sure about this figure.
 
 However, an operator, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they did not envisage any problem and that so far bookings look good.
 
 “Operators have to abide by the rules of the land. We when go abroad, we are bound by landing restrictions of that country. We don’t dictate terms to them. We adjust our arrivals and departures as per the time table offered by them,” he said.
 
 More than 50% of the charters Goa receives come from various destinations in Russia. However, the number of charter arrivals from the UK, Ukraine and Kazakhstan have also grown in the last few years. While the 2014-15 season witnessed a decline in arrivals from Russia as its economy weakened, 2016-17 season saw a marked increase in charters from Russia.
 
 Last season, 988 charters landed in Goa ferrying in 2.32 lakh tourists. Goa’s best season was in 2013-14 when the state experienced a boom in arrivals with 1,128 charters bringing in a total of 2.61 lakh tourists.
 
