Public transportation seems to be on track going by this Budget's focus on allocation and speeding up of suburban rail and metro rail. Chief minister   announced a slew of projects to decongest Bengaluru in the 2017-18 Budget, including the setting up of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to implement the much-delayed suburban rail project.

 Although the budgetary announcement to create an SPV is not new, the allocation of Rs 345 crore to the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) indicates the government's inclination to implement the project.
 
 Siddaramaiah said Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation was working on a suitable alignment to connect the city with Kempegowda International Airport, a metro rail line that has long been needed since the distance between the airport and the city centre is about 40km.In September 2016, he invited public opinion on the metro link to KIA. BMRC came up with nine options but officials said the route from Hennur or Thanisandra through Bagalur re mains a front runner.
 
 A third project is the proposal for   (KRDC) developing 150km of roads leading to the city from the state high ways at a cost of Rs 1 , 445 crore. The chief minister also announced the in duction of 3,000 buses into the BMTC fleet during the financial year. Of these, 1,500 will be purchased and the rest leased. There is also a proposal to introduce 150 electric buses in Bengaluru and 50 in Mysuru.
 
 “The introduction of electric buses is a forward looking step to create sustainable growth,“ said Vikram Kirloskar, vice-chairman, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, adding that the announcement of new airports in Karwara, Madikeri and Chikkamagaluru would help development of tier II towns and also ensure development and growth outside Bengaluru.
 
 “It's good that the chief minister is addressing Bengaluru's mobility issues with more buses, an expanded Namma Metro, commuter rail, improved roads, grade separators and short-span flyovers at junctions and better pedestrian facilities. The proposal to ban two-stroke autos is too small a measure to tackle air pollution in a city with over 65 lakh vehicles,“ said a spokesperson for Citizens for Bengaluru.
 
