NOIDA: After three incidents of chain-snatching in   on Wednesday, residents are demanding an increase in police patrolling and safety measures.

 This is just two days after the RWA federation’s meeting on law and order which was attended by senior police officers such as DGP Javeed Ahmad, IG (Meerut zone) Ajay Anand along with SP (city) Dinesh Yadav, SSP Dharmendra Singh, SP (crime) and chowki in-charges, on Sunday.
 
 Bike-borne criminals snatched a   from a man around 7.30am at gate No. 2 of Kendriya Vihar, Sector 51. Sanjeev Kumar, Sector 51 RWA general secretary, said the two snatchers came on a motorcycle. “They spotted a resident outside gate No. 2. The snatcher riding pillion immediately snatched the chain and fled the spot,” he said.
 
 Dr L S Verma, a local resident, said he saw the criminals fleeing after the crime. “I rushed for the victim’s help but the criminals fled the spot. I then dialled 100 and informed the police,” he said.
 
 Another incident was reported at 7.45am where the snatchers took away a mobile and chain of a morning walker, Rinki Malhotra, from outside Meghdootam Park in Sector 50. The victim told the police that she raised an alarm but the criminals riding a TVS Apache made off with their loot.
 
 An eyewitness said, “I was going to the park when the bike-borne criminals reached there. They spotted a woman and snatched her mobile phone and chain. The woman also received minor injuries.” A complaint was registered at the Sector 49 police station.
 
 In the third incident, the snatchers made off with a mobile phone from a woman near   station. The victim,  , a resident of   in Delhi, was walking towards her college when the criminals snatched her phone and fled.
 
 The residents believe that the crimes were being committed by a gang of criminals and the police should check it.
 
 Dinesh Yadav, SP (city) Noida said he was aware of the incidents of chain  . “We have asked our officers to launch a drive against snatchers in different sectors. In the Meghdootam Park incident, we have identified the snatcher. The accused will be arrested soon,” he said.
 
 
