PANAJI/BICHOLIM/CANACONA: After days of suspense over two important seats, the state unit of the ruling   decided on Saturday to deny tickets to speaker Anant Shet from   and sports minister   from  .

 After a party survey showed the sitting MLAs would be unable to retain their seats, the BJP cleared the names of former Congress candidate Pravin Zantye and former legislator Vijay Pai Khot for Mayem and Canacona, respectively. BJP parliamentary board on Sunday will take a final decision, sources said.
 
 There is a rebellion taking shape against the party in Mayem and Canacona, with Tawadkar and Shet even declaring they would stand against the official BJP candidates. 
 
 “Whether I will be an independent candidate or not will be decided in consultation with my supporters,” Tawadkar told TOI. Sources said Tawadkar has been getting feelers from MGP and may even contest on its ticket. BJP and MGP were coalition partners before the latter pulled out of the government, a few weeks before the elections were announced.
 
 Tawadkar said the party humiliated him by keeping him in the dark about his constituency candidature. “But this has increased the sympathy of people towards me,” he said, adding he has now got an opportunity to be his own leader.
 
 In Mayem, egged on by his supporters, Shet said he would contest the polls as a rebel leader. More than 500 workers had gathered at his residence when they heard that he was denied the ticket. To their demand, Shet assured them to contest the elections. 
 
 The drama over candidate selection ended when the BJP’s core state election committee called both Zantye and Khot to the party office in Panaji and informed them that their names have been cleared and they could inform their supporters about it.
 
 “The official name of Zantye and Khot would be declared on Sunday,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 Zantye told reporters that he has been working in Mayem constituency for a long time. “I think Shet will support me. We never had any enmity with Shet and his family,” he said, adding that he will file his nomination on Tuesday. Zantye, son of former   Harish Zantye, had twice lost the Mayem seat to Shet. 
 
 Khot also said he hoped Tawadkar would support his candidature for Canacona.
 
 During the visit of Union minister  , who is also election in charge of the party in the state, both Shet and Tawadkar met him. Sources said Gadkari had advised both of them not to revolt against the party. Both Shet and Tawadkar have strong local support. Union defence minister and former chief minister  , who has been spearheading the BJP campaign in the state, had told party workers from Canacona and Mayem that survey showed Zantye and Khot had better winning chances than the sitting MLAs.
 
 Tawadkar had won three elections, including a byelection in 2005 from Poiguinim constituency, which he retained in 2007. After delimitation of constituencies, Poiguinim was merged with Canacona and BJP denied ticket to then Canacona sitting MLA Khot and fielded Tawadkar, a scheduled tribe leader. 
 
 Shet has won two assembly elections in 2007 and 2012. Before becoming MLA, Shet was Mayem zilla panchayat member and was also panch of Mayem-Vaiguinim panchayat. 
 
 
