AGRA: Students of state government-run   (KGBV) and junior high schools will now be learning English by listening to radio programmes from next week onwards. A total of 90 episodes of 15 minutes each will be broadcast in the 2017-18 session. The programme will be broadcast by All India Radio from 10:45 to 11:00 AM.
 
  The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan ( ), Uttar Pradesh government and United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has together developed a unique project – ‘Aao Angrezi Seekhein’ (Come let’s learn English). The first-of-its-kind initiative aims at benefiting students of underprivileged sections of society.
  
  Basic education department officials claim that though the focus of the programme this year is on class VI students, an effort would also be made to enable other students enrolled in primary and junior high schools to benefit from the broadcast. 
  
  Assistant director basic education Girijesh Chaudhary said, “To make the project successful, the district coordinators of girls’ education from all 75 districts of the state are getting training through UNICEF-supported training workshops. These coordinators will further guide officials and teachers at block level. The project will help students learn English in an interesting manner. It will prove to be a significant step to boost morale and raise confidence of students.”
  
  State project director Rajkumari Verma has directed basic shiksha adhikaris of all districts regarding suitable implementation of the project. On the first day mothers of students and school management committee members will attend the radio broadcast. Discussion to supplement English learning among students will take place.
  
  According to department officials, principals have been directed to ensure availability of radios and their proper functioning before July 17. BSAs with block education officer will review the project every month. Officers will personally mark their presence in school to ensure suitable compliance with orders.
