New Delhi: There is no respite for most sanitation employees when they return home after a hard day’s work. Ten people crammed in two unventilated rooms, clouds of flies outside their houses, rats in the corners of rooms that act both as kitchens and sleeping quarters — such is life on the alleys at Dilshad Vihar Colony jhuggi and Kalandar Colony jhuggi, where a number of   reside.

 Ram Bhul, an EDMC sanitation worker, lives with 10 members of his family in tiny concrete cages in the Kalandar Colony jhuggi. “I have brought up six of my children in this house,” said Bhul, but it was not a statement of pride. When he spoke, there was a desperate tone of frustration in his voice. His brood members fall sick regularly, possibly due to the filth surrounding them. Even on the day TOI visited the area, Bhul’s wife was ailing, and had been for some weeks. “We have spent Rs 42,000 on treating her stomach pains,” said Bhul.
 
 Spending scarce money on medical treatment could not save the life of Jagdish’s brother. “My elder brother had a stomach infection. We provided him whatever medical treatment we could afford, but he did not survive,” said Jagdish. His mother too suffered sores on her legs for a long time before she died. The EDMC sanitation employee has a dozen mouths to feed, and once his six children, ```two brothers, parents and his wife were all squeezed in their poor two-room house made partly of concrete, but mostly tin and plastic.
 
 It isn’t easy for Veer Singh either. He has a jumbo family of 13, who occupy three rooms in the Kalandar Colony jhuggi. The children eat uncovered fritters from stalls set up in the evening in the locality. Often the cramped interiors force the children to take their food and sit outside their home for meals — often near the drains filled with muck.
 
 The children have no playing space save for the compound of the public toilet there and they have no hesitation entering filth-filled drains to retrieve lost balls. Amid this mess, chicken is sold in the open, the seller paying little heed to the health hazards of conducting such a business in the germ-infested environs. The locals, however, carry on with life, unaware or uncaring due to their poverty.
 
 Sanjay Gehlot president of MCD Swachhta Karmachari Union, revealed the primary reason why the sanitation workers seemed to have no alternative to his wretched life. “The civic bodies do not disburse the salaries of the cleaning staff every month. Many of them have incurred debts to meet expenses,” said Gehlot.
 
 The corporations had constructed flats for the sanitation workers some years ago. But as a worker pointed out, “The flats were not enough to meet the needs of all workers. Besides, without maintenance these tiny flats are now in extremely poor state.” 
 
 
