The   assembly seat has emerged as a fast-developing industrial and institutional hub in the recent years. A Gujjar-dominated constituency where caste and religion determined the poll outcome, it is all set to witness a keen contest this time. There are 4.34 lakh voters in the constituency which has a population of 6.78 lakh.

 However, it is still considered a rural constituency with urban areas few due to development of only some sectors in Greater Noida. The villages of Kaluanda, Cholas, Chitehra, Rithori, Sudhiyana, Kambakshpur, Dujana and others lack basic facilities like schools, connectivity, electricity etc. Unemployment is also rampant. Routine crimes of loot, snatching, murder are also a matter of concern for the local residents.
 
 The Dadri assembly seat also comprises Noida Extension and sectors in Greater Noida like Alpha, Beta, Gama, Delta, P–3, etc. According to the residents, the Greater Noida Development Authority had developed these sectors but there is hardly any safety and security. 
 
 Harinder Bhati, a resident of Beta I, said their elected representative never visited the area. “We feel that there is a lack of communication between the people and the representative. The MLA should meet sector residents and address the problems. The issue of vehicle theft is serious in sectors,” he said.
 
 Dadri became a household name after September 28, 2015 when a mob attacked Mohammad Akhlaq and his son Danish in the village over suspicion of slaughtering a cow. Akhlaq succumbed to injuries later while Danish survived. The violent attack resulted in a communal divide as political leaders fished in troubled water.
 
 As the model code of conduct came into force, the administration enforced Section 144 of CrPC and had asked political parties and candidates to get prior permission before holding a public gathering in the village.
 
 Hariom Pradhan, husband of Bisada village chief Kaushalya Devi, said local residents were fed up with the limelight and that they wanted development. “We need repair of roads, pure drinking water, schools and proper sanitation,” he said.
 
 There are a total of 14 contestants, including one woman candidate. However, the fight is essentially a triangular one, between two-time MLA Satveer Gurjar of BSP, Tejpal Nagar of BJP and Sameer Bhati of Congress.
 
 In the last assembly elections, BSP’s Satveer Gujjar defeated BJP's Nawab Singh Nagar by a margin of 37,297 votes. Satveer got 81,137 votes, while Nawab could manage only 43,840 votes.
 
 
