JAIPUR: This reporter found some text in Marathi and was looking for a translator at the meeting of farmers when one helpful soul told her a   would help. To one’s amazement, the bearded gentleman turned out to be Member of Parliament from Maharashtra Raju Shetti. And he went about the translation like it was just another daily task!   of   explained that the media was often puzzled by the jeans-clad farmer out and protesting. What it fails to see is that groups are coalescing – the Adivasis, women, Dalits and   on farms too are now coming together in the new farmer movement that is now emerging.

 Shetti, VM Singh, farmer leader from UP who is also related to Union minister Maneka Gandhi, Yogendra Yadav, Dr Sunilam, Rajasthan’s Amra Ram and leaders from Tamil Nadu and other states were present at the meeting in the CPI-M office on Saturday morning. A two-minute silence was observed for the six farmers killed in police firing in Mandsaur of Madhya Pradesh on June 6.
 
 This march of farmers, which wound its way from Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh through Maharashtra and has arrived in Jaipur, will also go through parts of UP and Haryana before arriving in Delhi on July 18. The farmers have two demands – loan waiver and fair prices for their produce.
 
 VM Singh said, “Farmers feed the nation, but this is a nation ungrateful to the people who feed her. We now have to grab our rights from the people who govern us. And although we are shown all these images of progress – of vikas – we know that there are no jobs out there. What will our children do once they are done studying and we have incurred loans for their education? If there is no farming left to be done, will they not sink into depression and become dependent on drugs?”
 
 Shetti, who led the farmer protest in Maharashtra, inspired the gathering with hope, speaking of how the movement that he was part of forced the state government to waive loans of farmers. Farmers said they would protest in the streets and disrupt rail traffic if their demands were not met by government. On the eve of the ultimatum set by the farmers, the state government announced on June 11 that it would waive the loans of small farmers.
 
 “If Maharashtra could announce a Rs 34,000 crore loan waiver, we can expect similar waivers in other states too,” Shetti said. Yogendra Yadav emphasized that the loans that farmers were burdened with had to do with government policy. “This government at the Centre is the worst for farmers in the history of independent India. There was a farmer movement in this country that was part of the freedom struggle – we know of Champaran (Bihar) and Kheda (Gujarat). The 1980s saw the rise of farmers movements under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, Sharad Joshi and Nanjundaswamy. However, the definition of the farmer was mostly of one who owned land. What we see now is the emergence of a new farmer movement that brings together not just landed farmers, but also Dalits, Adivasis and farm workers who do not own land.”
 
