KOCHI: Water scarcity and groundwater depletion has become major concerns in   municipality, particularly in areas around the IT hub in Kakkanad. Residents are now demanding action by the district administration and ground water department. 

 Growth in population and an increased dependency on groundwater in areas close to Kakkanad has had an adverse impact on groundwater levels. Residents of apartment complexes, villas, individual houses in these areas are largely dependent on ground water. 
 
 "The consumption of water is increasing as population grows. There is no doubt that this factor has added to ground water depletion," said Thrikkakkara municipal secretary Shibu PS. He also said the ground water department should seriously look into this aspect.
 
 The Thrikkakkara municipality has a population of over1.20 lakh. But, there has been no serious effort to ensure rain water harvesting and ground water recharging. The   (KWA) currently does not have any project that will help address the water shortage in the area. Kakkanad, home to  , is always in the reckoning when big ticket development projects like   are considered but the water crisis in the region remain unaddressed. 
 
 These projects are expected to bring in more people to Kakkanad. Many of them would want to settle here. If the water crisis continues the housing sector would face the heat. 
 
 "Apartment complexes have come up on paddy fields, the waste from these buildings are dumped into the rivulets of river Kadambrayar. All most all rivulets have become stagnant. Spring heads have dried up due to construction activity resulting in dry wells," said T M Ali, representing Chittethukara ward of the municipality. Liji Suresh, councillor representing Kakkanad ward, said sometimes KWA is able to resume water supply in the area after a break of five to six days. "They give reasons including pipleine bursts and leakage. The councillors have taken up the responsibility of supplying water through tanker trucks," she said, adding that ever since KWA shifted the valve near Mar Athanasius High School to Pozhichira water supply has been severely hit.
 
 However, the local body maintained that they would include proposals for modern sewage and septage systems in the budget for 2017-18. "Discussions are going on. Our plan is to implement these projects with the support of state government and KWA. It is high time the local body implemented projects that would control pollution," added the municipal secretary.
 
 Officials with KWA said, though a 135 MLD drinking water treatment plant was planned at Kalamassery they are yet to identify land for the project. 
 
 The first phase of the project is estimated to cost around Rs 250 crore. The Kerala Industrial   Development Corporation (Kinfra) was to provide five acres at its industrial park at Kalamassery for the plant. The corporation planned to take back over five acres leased out to a private firm citing violation of agreement and use it for setting up the project. 
 
 However, the firm moved the court delaying allotment of land for the water project. "Apart from this there are no specific water supply project being planned in Thrikkakkara or adjacent areas," said a KWA official.
 
