NEW DELHI: The   girls’ hostel has opened its doors to students this year, after much controversy over its high fees and “absurd rules”. However, the members of Pinjra Tod have alleged that the fees still remains very high, and there needs to be more inclusive living arrangement provided by the university to its students.

 The   authorities, however, justified the fees saying the amenities provided in the girls’ hostel is more than what is given to the boys’ hostel, which was built on UGC grants that do not exist for the new girls’ hostel.
 
 Pinjra Tod, a student organisation, had last year brought to light the discriminatory rules and fees charged for women’s hostels, as compared to the men’s hostels. Issues were raised over the “dress code” and curfew timings last year, following which the college administration had decided to postpone the opening of the hostel. The college already has accommodation for boys, and was set to start accommodation for   last year. A new girls’ hostel built with the academic block costs Rs 16.5 crore.
 
 This year, the hostel is being opened to its students, and a mail has been sent to the incoming students. However, college students said that the seats are yet to be allotted to students of second and third year.
 
 Pinjra Tod has alleged that the fees, though brought down from last year, is still very high at Rs 90,000 per annum, as compared to the accommodation provided to boys at Rs 50,000. 
 
 The college principal, Anju Srivastava, said the girls’ hostel is better equipped and self-financing, which explains the higher fees. “We have changed the rules from last year and brought them at par with what is expected of the boys. But the fees is also very reasonable. The boys’ hostel was made decades ago, for which UGC grant was given to us. These grants don’t exist for the newer girls’ hostel, and so it runs on a self-financing mode,” she explained. 
 
 A student from the college explained that the girls’ hostel is fully air-conditioned and has elevators. “But the boys’ hostel is 50-years-old and has none of these amenities. If the students are getting better facilities, they must pay for it too,” said the student.
 
 However, a member of Pinja Tod argued that the university needs to make sure all students are given good accommodation, as required, on subsidised rates, instead of expecting them to look for more expensive, unsafe and competitive accommodation off the campus.
 
 
