Hyderabad: The vast expanse of the famed Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex and the smaller but intricate   tucked away in the bylanes of Old City are a picture of contrast and similarity. The royal necropolis is the single largest collection of funerary structures and is the final resting place of an entire dynasty. In a similar fashion, the Paigah Tombs too are the final resting place of an entire noble family. But while the former in being restored to its past glory, the latter lies in a state of increasing disrepair. 

 Away from the chock-a-block traffic of core Old City and close to the Centre-administered defence establishments, the Paigah Tombs, also known as Shams-ul-Umra Tombs, are located near the Dargah Hazrat Barhaane Shah. 
 
 Intricately designed and crafted jaalis or lattices in stucco are its key architectural feature. Experts believe that the art was inspired by the Mughal architecture in the north. 
 
 According to   expert Sajjad Shahid, it was after 1857 that the Asaf Jahis fully asserted their independence from the Mughals. “While the lattice work in marble was done in the north, the lattice work in stucco was done here, which is unique. The tombs are intricately designed and executed,” he said. 
 
 The complex has a masjid and a naubat khana as well. The arches are reminiscent of Mughal architecture, but are also to be seen in monuments in Rajasthan, as they are cusped. 
 
 But while the tombs complex, which is in the custody of the department of archaeology and museums (DAM), received a facelift a couple of years ago, the deterioration has begun anew. 
 
 Large portions of the stucco lattice work are broken. The gaping holes in the jaalis have become larger with each passing season. Soot and patina have covered the structures. 
 
 Founded by Abul Fatah Tegh Jung Bahadur, popularly known as Shams-ul-Umra, the Paigahs branched out into the Asman Jahi, the Khurshid Jahi and Viqar-ul-Umra Paigahs. 
 
 Faiz Khan, who is a member of the Paigah family, said that it was in the 1980s that the necropolis was handed over to DAM for better upkeep. The family, however, continues to be the owner. 
 
 “Apart from Shams-ul-Umra, Amir-e-Kabir I, who was the son-in-law of the second Nizam Ali Khan, is also resting there. It is from here that the tradition of the Paigahs marrying into the Asaf Jahi dynasty began,” he said. 
 
 Touching upon the issue of maintenance of the heritage complex, Khan said that he had approached previous governments apprising them of the need for maintenance and conservation. However, he is yet to write to the current government. 
 
 
