GURGAON: Thursday was the   of the season in Gurgaon with the minimum temperature going down to 1.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Delhi also dipped further on Thursday, touching the season’s lowest of 3.4 degrees Celsius—four degrees below normal—while maximum temperature was two degrees below normal at 18.2 degrees Celsius. Gurgaon recorded the lowest minimum in NCR.

 Not only did the dip in temperature lead to increase in fog, but wind speed also fell to as low as 0.02m/sec. Gurgaon’s air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 312, well in the ‘hazardous’ zone. It was the worst this week
 
 According to World Health Organisation (WHO), the ‘hazardous’ level triggers a health warning of emergency condition, as the entire population becomes susceptible.
 
 The level of PM2.5 also increased by about 62% on Thursday, compared to the day before. The highest concentration of PM2.5 on Thursday was 305.08 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³), while the highest concentrations on Wednesday and Tuesday were 188.41µg/m³ and 200.49µg/m³, respectively. 
 
 Carbon monoxide also saw a jump, with its average concentration recorded at 24 milligrams per cubic metre (mg/m³) on Thursday, compared to around 18mg/m³ in the three previous days.
 
 Officials of   (HSPCB) blamed low wind speed for rise in pollution.
 
 “Increase in fog leads to trapping of particulate matter in the lower atmosphere, and low wind speed doesn’t let the particulate matter disperse. It’s a major cause of increase in concentration of some pollutants such as PM2.5 and carbon monoxide. However, we will take enough measures to make sure construction dust — the biggest culprit — is controlled. We have already been raising the issue of emissions from diesel autos,” said an official of HSPCB. Another aggravating factor — vertical wind speed, on Thursday, went down 0.07m/sec — fromWednesday’s 0.12m/sec and Tuesday’s 0.13m/sec. 
 
 The met department said the next three days are expected to be foggier. 
 
 “The average minimum temperature in Gurgaon on Thursday was 1.6°C, which is expected to fall further. The next three days could be foggier, with hazy sunlight,” said an official of the met department.
 
 Experts called for a health warning by the administration. “Since there is a prediction for further drop in temperature, and thus an increase in the level of air pollution, authorities should take immediate note of it. We have been raising the demand for emergency steps, such as restricting movement of diesel vehicles, temporary closure of polluting industries and closure of schools and colleges, if required,” said  , a former member of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority.
 
 
