BENGALURU:  , already in the grip of a severe drinking water crisis, is now facing acute power scarcity, owing to water and coal shortage. 

  The state power managers have begun exercising selective restrictions in power supply after the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS), which accounts for over 30 per cent of the state's power generation, fell short of production targets by about 400MW due to shortage of water in the Krishna river. 
 
 Shortage of coal has further compounded power production. Official sources said the state is left with a stock of about two lakh tonnes of coal with supplies of around seven rakes every day to run all its thermal plants.
 
 Thanks to poor monsoon last year and a continuing dry spell, the three major hydel reservoirs at Linganmakki, Mani and Supa are generating only 30-40 per cent of its capacity.
 
 "Karnataka needs about 185 million units of electricity a day during peak summer, but only 135 million units are now available. The situation has come to such a pass that we are entirely dependent on the rain god,'' said a senior official of the state energy department.
 
 However, the government is confident of tiding over the situation without any cuts. Energy minister D K Shiva Kumar spoke of a contingency plan to deal with the twin challenges of water and coal shortage. He said Bengaluru city and industries would not be subjected to any cut and that seven-hour supply to agricultural pumpsets would be maintained.
 
  Worst hit of the lot 
 
  RTPS is the worst-hit plant. It requires about 1.3 tmcft of water for running its eight units till June 10, when the monsoon is expected to set in. The authorities feel it could cope with the crisis if storage of one tmcft is ensured in the Googal barrage or   reservoir across the Krishna for the next few months. 
 
 "RTPS is presently using less than 40 cusecs of water against the requirement of 100 cusecs. And there isn't enough water at the Googal barrage or Basavasagara reservoir," said a senior official at the RTPS unit. Worse, production at the new Yermarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS) is also hit due to acute shortage at the Almatti and   reservoirs.
 
 
