GURUGRAM: The MCG and Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) are planning to do away with   in   industrial area, providing a huge relief to several private companies operating out of the estate.

 Currently, industrialists in Udyog Vihar pay   to HSIIDC and property taxes to MCG. If sources are to be believed, the civic authorities have proposed that the companies pay only property taxes to the corporation, which will then reimburse HSIIDC for maintenance expenses annually.
 
 HSIIDC officials confirmed that talks in this regard were on between the two departments. “The MCG commissioner has proposed a model where allottees can pay the corporation, which will, in turn, reimburse expenses incurred by us for maintenance of the industrial area,” said a senior official of HSIIDC. “MCG is supposed to take care of the maintenance of the area. However, since HSIIDC is capable of attending to upkeep issues promptly, MCG will like HSIIDC to do the maintenance work and pay it for the services,” MCG commissioner V Umashankar said. 
 
 Industry insiders said they were aware of the proposal and hoped that the same would be implemented soon. “Companies here have for long been bearing the burden of dual taxation — paying property taxes as well as maintenance charges. We welcome the recent development,” said Animesh Saxena, president of the Gurgaon Industrial Association. He added they would prefer HSIIDC to continue maintaining the area, as it has been doing till now.
 
 “HSIIDC is better equipped, in terms of resources, to maintain the estate. Thus, we would like it to continue the task. We would like to thank the MCG commissioner for initiating the talks in this regard. It will be a welcome change,” said Praveen Yadav, president, Udyog Vihar Industrial Association.
 
 Companies now pay property taxes at the rate of Rs 5 per square yard. Maintenance charges, however, are decided by the operation and maintenance committee every year, depending upon the upkeep work that needed to be done in a particular year.
 
 The issue of double taxation has for long been a bone of contention between the industrialists and the government bodies, and industry associations have been pressing for an amicable solution to the problem.
 
 
