HYDERABAD: In a case of suspected custodial death, a 40year-old man who was picked up by the   on Saturday morning for questioning in a petty case, collapsed in the police station bathroom and was de clared brought dead by doctors at   on Saturday evening.

 Alleging that  , the victim, died due to police torture, locals including political leaders, staged a dharna outside the police station leading to a mild lathicharge. More than 500 protesters pelted stones at a police vehicle damaging its windscreen.
 
 According to Mangalhat police, Bheem Singh, an electrician, had a fight with his friend Ajay on Saturday following which the latter lodged a complaint with the cops. Around 11am, two constables came to Bheem's house and took him to the police station.
 
 On learning about the development, Bheem's mother Jayashree went to Mangalhat police station where cops told her to get her son's Aadhaar card. “When I returned to the police station with the Aadhaar card, my son told me that he was badly beaten up by the cops,“ Jayashree told the media.
 
 Around 6 pm, Bheem collapsed in the bathroom of the police station following which he was rushed to OGH where he was declared brought dead.Sources said Bheem had injuries on his back and shoulder. “My son died only due to police torture. I want a judicial probe into the death,'' the mother said. The death led to tension in the area as locals led by BJP MLA Raja Singh gathered in large numbers outside Mangalhat police station and at one point, cops had to resort to a lathicharge to control the crowd.
 
 South Zone police led by its DCP joined the West Zone poli ce to control the swelling crowd. Late in the night, section 144 was imposed in Mangalhat police station limits.
 
 Family members of Bheem and local politicians demanded a judicial probe into the death, besides action against Mangalhat inspector R Srinivas. OGH authorities are slated to conduct the postmortem on the victim on Sunday. Furt her investigation in the case is also on.
 
 This is not the first time that Hyderabad police have been accused of lock up de aths. Such incidents were also reported at the Marredpally and Asif Nagar police stations of the city in the past.
 
 In the Marredpally case, locals ransacked the police station after the death of a person who was taken into custody in a theft case.
 
 Neither Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy nor deputy commissio ner of police (West Zone) A Venkateshwar Rao were avai lable for comment on Bheem Singh's death, when TOI tried to contact them.
 
