Mumbai: A   boy died shortly after collapsing at Pawar Public School,  , on Thursday morning. The boy, Swarang Dalvi, was playing with his friends on the school’s second floor corridor during the short break which started at 9.40am, when he collapsed.

 Sakinaka police probing the incident did not find anything suspicious after going through the school’s closed-circuit television (CCTV) on Thursday.
 
 Police are awaiting the postmortem report to determine the cause of the Class I student’s sudden death. “At present a case of accidental death has been registered. It is learnt the kid was playing during the interval and was outside his classroom when he collapsed. The CCTV images did not find anything suspicious. The autopsy report will give a clear picture,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy.
 
 School officials said the boy was seen running along with his friends before he collapsed. “Other students alerted the ‘maushi’ on the floor who rushed the boy to the first floor. An on duty doctor attended to the child. She could feel a pulse but suggested we take him to hospital,” said principal, Madhura Phadke. The student was rushed to LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai, in a school car along with the doctor and coordinator. School authorities immediately informed the boy’s parents and asked them to reach hospital.
 
 The school said they were unaware of any medical history. “The doctor rubbed his palms and gave him some glucose too. The mother told us Swarang had fever on Wednesday, but school was shut that day. Since he didn’t have fever on Thursday, he came to school,” she added. On the way to hospital, the doctor felt the boy’s pulse was weak. The hospital said in a statement, “The child was brought dead to our hospital.” 
 
 The body was handed over to the family after the post mortem at around 5.20 pm. “He was not unwell. We are waiting for medical reports,” said Ratnadeep Dalvi, the boy’s father who is a tabla instructor at the school’s branch in Bhandup. 
 
 Forensic experts at Rajawadi Hospital, where the child’s autopsy was carried out, stated his cause of death as “natural”. “There is no foul play. We have saved his tissue and blood samples so that a detailed histopathological and chemical analysis is carried out,” the expert said. They also couldn’t see any obvious signs of congenital defect.
 
 Police surgeon Dr S M Patil said an underlying or undetected medical condition could have caused the death. “As of now, the autopsy reports are not able to indicate towards anything. One of our remote suspicions is pneumonia but only a histopathological test will tell. We have collected his blood, heart, lung, kidney and spleen samples and sent it to the pathology department of JJ Hospital, Byculla for a histopathology. It will tell us whether he was suffering from a disease and what it was,” Patil said. The samples would also be subjected to routine dengue and malaria investigations. A separate set of blood samples have also been handed over to the police to be given to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for chemical analysis. “This is done to rule out poisoning or any drug reaction. His viscera has also been sent for the same,” he said.
 
 “It is extremely shocking. The child was studying with us for four years and we remember him as a very fun loving boy who was interested in sports,” said Phadke. She along with several teachers from both branches of the school, visited the boy’s residence in the evening.
 
 To ensure there was no panic among other parents, the school issued a statement through email explaining the incident. 
 
 
