NALGONDA:   national president   on Tuesday made it clear that his party is playing the role of the opposition in   while it has an alliance with the TDP in  . After saying so at a press conference here, Shah continued with his criticism of the TRS government by naming several central schemes that he said were not being implemented in the state. 

 “In Telangana, the   is an opposition party and has been fighting for the people’s issues for the past couple of years,” Shah said. The BJP president reiterated that his party would come to power in the state, but evaded a direct reply on the number of seats it would win in the 2019 elections.
 
 For the second day on Tuesday, the BJP chief raked up the issue of Telangana not utilising central schemes. “The NDA government has pumped Rs 1 lakh crore into Telangana for various schemes in the past three years, which the united AP state did not get in the past 70 years of its existence. But many schemes, like the Kisan health card, soil health card and employment guarantee scheme, are not reaching grassroots,” he said.
 
 He claimed the NDA government had sanctioned Rs 40,000 crore for various infrastructure projects, including the Hyderabad Metro Rail, the Hyderabad-Vijaywada road expansion and four-laning the Yadadri-Warangal road.
 
 According to Shah, under the 13th finance commission, Telangana received Rs 9,795 crore, which increased to Rs 96,706 crore in the 14th finance commission. Similarly, grant in aid allocated increased from Rs 2,110 crore to Rs 9,900 crore and local body grants increased from Rs 249 crore to Rs 8,764 crore, he said.
 
 He dismissed the allegations that the BJP was trying to create communal rift by touring those areas in Telangana that witnessed the Razakar movement. “During the movement, many people were martyred and it is time we acknowledge their sacrifices,” he said.
 
 To a query that some central ministers were praising the TRS government, Shah said that India is a federal structure and that the BJP would respect the state government. “At the same time, we cannot ignore the ground realities where people complain about lack of basic amenities like toilets,” he said.
 
 BJP state president K Laxman, Union minister Bandaru Dattatreya, national general secretary Muralidhar Rao and BJP floor leader G Kishan Reddy were also present at the press conference.
 
