WASHINGTON: US President   is heading back home this weekend to domestic turbulence after a choppy first foreign trip during which he kissed up to the Saudi monarchy and its Sunni Muslim followers, while dissing America’s long-standing allies such as Israel and NATO countries. The trip included flubs ranging from intelligence leaks in Washington to gauche body language and blunt, abrasive talk on issues of debt, defense, and trade.

 “Just arrived in Italy for the G7. Trip has been very successful. We made and saved the USA many billions of dollars and millions of jobs,” Trump tweeted on Friday during the final leg of his eight-day, five-nation tour that his acolyte New Gingrich claimed constituted a foreign policy shift of “Titanic” proportions.
 
 But critics only saw a disastrous trip littered with gaffes and embarrassment for America every step of the way.
 
 Just hours before he headed back home, Trump railed against Germany for unfair trade practices, telling senior EU officials, “The Germans are bad, really bad. Look at the millions of cars they sell in the US. It’s terrible. We’ll put a stop to that.” The President’s aides had to step in to clarify that Trump’s gripe was only against German trade and not Germans per se, with a reminder that Trump’s father was German.
 
 The US President’s threat on trade came on top of a stern lecture to leaders of NATO accusing them of “chronic underpayments” and asking them to pony up their share of military expenditure, which holding back specific U.S defense commitments. G-7 leaders also saw their climate change agenda being sidelined by growing concerns on terrorism, highlighted by terror attacks in UK and   in course of Trumps’ tour.
 
 The US President’s blunt, unvarnished words were compounded by body language that observers saw as needlessly aggressive, including a white-knuckle handshake with the new President of France and pushing past the leader of Montenegro, who later said he did not find the shove offensive.
 
 Trump has been trolled relentlessly on his eight-day trip with every misstep and misstatement amplified, enlarged, and sometimes conflated. His poor command of language and poor communication skills have been ridiculed and skewered on late night television.
  
 Videos and gif files of his wife   apparently rejecting his hand-holding twice, his bone-crunching handshake with French President Macron, and his shoving past NATO leaders to preen himself in front of cameras have been distributed and played ad nauseum on television and social media.
 
 But the President has not been shy of taking pot shots himself, particularly at the media.
  
 On Friday, Trump trolled the U.S press by turning to the cameras and saying “Great win in Montana!” (even though no one asked him about it), after a GOP candidate won a by-election despite controversy a day before polling when he assaulted a reporter. Some hardline Republicans and Trump supporters saw the victory as vindication of their aggressive stand against the liberal media.
 
 Meanwhile, several Trump aides and family members, including his daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared   peeled off from the trip early and headed back to Washington DC as the focus returned on domestic developments after a week abroad.
 
 Kushner has now been publicly identified as a “person of interest” in the FBI investigation into the Trump campaign’s Russia ties, and having already said he is ready to meet with a   inquiry to answer any questions, he is expected to do the same with the Bureau once Trump returns from Europe.
  
 The President meanwhile has hired a personal lawyer – outside the White House legal team -- as the Russia probe gathers momentum. 
 
