PATNA: Belgium-born Indian development economist and social activist   on Saturday said the   and its affiliates have embarked on a “very dangerous” project of controlling both the body and mind of people of the country through violence and the rhetoric of its cultural nationalism.

 “Various bodies of the Sangh Parivar, including the ‘gaurakshak’ groups, have been indulging in violence. They are injecting in the mind of people the belief that Brahmanical religion is the religion of Hindus. It is in tune with their Hindutva agenda,” he said.
 
 Dreze was addressing the inaugural session of the three-day 15th national conference of Jan Sanskriti Manch (JSM) that began at Vidyapati Bhawan here on Saturday. CPI (ML) politburo member and national general secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association ( )   and writer-cum-columnist Chaman Lal also addressed the conference.
 
 Dreze said the Sangh Parivar and its affiliates have been indulging in violence on various issues, including on the pretext of dietary habits, to induce that only their version of thought process would count.
 
 Dreze said earlier the upper caste segments of society, who were economically strong, used to exercise “body control” of the subordinate groups through violence like public beating, manhandling and stripping of bodies. Over the decades, as their economic base in land began to shrink, they also faced the rise of suppressed groups, like the dalits. “Now, the same upper caste sections find solace in the Hindutva ideology and physical violence for control,” he said, adding his readings were based on the study of the original works of the RSS gurus.
 
 Inaugurating the conference, Chaman Lal said the present regime ruling the country is “more dangerous and draconian” than even the emergency imposed by former PM Indira Gandhi. “There were groups that resisted the emergency. Today, anyone who resists the present regime and thinks alternatively is immediately branded as anti-national,” he added.
 
 Krishnan said the only way to challenge the present situation is “not to be defensive and talk in terms of slogans like ‘desh bachao (save the country),’ but to aggressively throw up alternative thoughts and fight them with counter ideological moorings”. 
 
 
