NAGPUR: Far from becoming self-reliant in meeting its revenue targets, the cash-starved   is once again pinning its hopes on government dole. This time, it is seeking to consolidate its beleaguered finances in the form of goods and services tax which the Central Government plans to roll out in the 2017-18 financial year.

 The NMC has requisitioned the union government for Rs1,065 crore annually as its share of revenue from the proposed GST, confirmed a senior official. “If the request is granted, the money will definitely improve NMC’s poor financial condition,” said Nagpur mayor Pravin Datke.
 
 The mayor said this is one last opportunity for the NMC to improve its financial condition as the civic body’s revenue base has been declining steadily over the years. Datke also cited reasons of declining NMC’s revenue, but didn’t speak of shortcomings on NMC’s part to recover mounting dues and act against defaulters.
 
 The reasons cited include the abolition of octroi and local body tax. Maharashtra government has also taken over taxes such as profession tax, motor vehicles tax, entertainment tax, duty on transfer of property etc that were earlier imposed by the municipal corporation. The NMC had also written to the state government to ensure a fixed compensation against abolition of LBT.
 
 “We had communicated it to the state government that the quantum of compensation be protected. There should be an automatic devolution and a 17% annual increase every year, as in 2012-2013 NMC witnessed a 17% increase in octroi collection. But it was ignored,” said an official. Though the NMC is receiving Rs 40 crore monthly grant from the state government, it is not sufficient.
 
 While Nagpur’s urban population is increasing every year, the share of municipal revenue in combined central and state revenues has substantially declined. The functioning of local body has been badly affected as the NMC has to be at the mercy of the state, said the mayor.
 
 Datke said the central government should increase its share on   projects for Nagpur. “At present, NMC is supposed to get Rs100 crore per year for Smart City projects, but it needs to be increased as pressure on urban local body is increasing every year. So, the Rs 500 crore allocation for five years by the central government should be doubled,” said an official.
 
 The central government should also increase its contribution from Rs1.50 lakh each for constructing homes for urban poor under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, civic officials said.
 
 The city is also expecting smooth cash flow for the ongoing Rs 8,680 crore  . A senior NMRCL officer told TOI on the condition of anonymity that the centre should make budgetary allocation for   to ensure that the centre pays its share for 2017-18 on time. “Now the work of Metro is going on at full speed and a fund crunch will only hamper the pace,” he said.
 
 The NMC is also implementing many other projects funded by the central government including included Swachh Bharat Mission, Rs232 crore  , Nag river rejuvenation etc.
 
 The Union government had already approved a sum of Rs 1,298 crore project for beautification and rejuvenation of Nag River. The Central Government is supposed to give 85% amount while NMC has to share only 15 % amount in this project. Funds for these projects should be released without any delays, said an official. The NMC also hopes that the central government should release its share of funds for sponsored projects in time. “Delay in release of funds escalates projects cost,” said the officer.
 
 CIVIC BODY
 
 WISH LIST
 
 Heads----Present cost----Expected
 
 Smart City Projects---Rs500 cr----1,000cr
 
 In lieu of LBT---Rs40 cr----Rs1,065 crore (GST)
 
 Amrut Mission---Rs232cr----Rs500cr
 
