BENGALURU: Severe land crunch threatens to dent Karnataka’s image as a favourable investment destination. Sample this: Around 18,289 applications seeking land in various districts for setting up small-scale industries are pending before the   (KIADB), according to information accessed by TOI from the state industries department.

 The demand for industrial land has been highest in   and Rural, followed by Belagavi, Mysuru, Dharwad, Bidar and Shivamogga. Such has been the demand for land in Bengaluru that around 2,537 applications for industrial projects have been pending with KIADB for some years now, followed by Belagavi (1,887) and Mysuru (1,727).
 
 KIADB chief executive officer (CEO)  , however, expressed surprise over the data and said it doesn’t match the actual figures they have with them.
 
 Despite Karnataka boasting of huge land bank, industrial experts claim that industrial land not only comes at a premium, but that a lack of developed industrial real estate for distribution to potential investors could impact long-term industrial growth of the region. 
 
 “It’s not the land but the price at which KIADB is selling them that is posing a major hurdle for the growth of the industry,” said  , former Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) president and founder, C M Envirosystems and added that the state government has been doing absolutely nothing to develop industrial real estate to ensure faster distribution of industrial plots, especially those spanning between 2-5 acres.
 
 KIADB officials said they would have to put up infrastructure, including roads, and only then can they allot land to industry at comparable prices.
 
 Entrepreneurs, wanting to set up base in Belagavi said they had applied for land allotment in 2013 and are now contemplating withdrawing their applications, as there’s little clarity on the date of allotment. “Land shortage will be a major deterrent for investors and industries planning to enter Belagavi, which falls on Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, as this as a major impediment that cannot be easily surmounted,” they said.
 
 According to some dejected entrepreneurs, though thousands of acres were acquired by KIADB, they were later allotted to various industrial houses to set up their units. While a few small and medium-scale industries have set up shops, most of the land is being used for purposes other than industries. While temporary houses have come up on some, scrap godowns stand on others.
 
 Industries minister R V Deshpande said he doesn’t know why so many applications are pending and that he’d need to get into the details before commenting on the matter.
 
