NEW DELHI: The   wing of  , which gets over 500 patients daily, is woefully short-staffed. There are only 11 senior residents (SR) against 24 required posts and 68 junior residents (JR) against the total strength of 95. The number of   and ventilator services is also “less than required”.

 The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the hospital claims the shortage is affecting services and that it has written to the institute director for urgent action in the matter.
 
 “For the past one month, there have been a crisis of doctors in the emergency department. We have written to the director to call a meeting and solve it on an urgent basis as we all know that emergency services are the face of any institute,” Dr Vijay Kumar, president of RDA told TOI.
 
 He said that the number of nurses and technicians was also “less than required”. “There is only one technician each for ECG and ventilator in the whole emergency,” Kumar added. The AIIMS RDA president said the shortage of staff was a major cause of frustration for attendants of the patients.
 
 Apart from this, doctors have to do blood sampling and blood pressure monitoring so there is no time left for counselling of patients, Kumar claimed.
 
 Emergency areas witness maximum incidence of violence in hospitals. This is because most patients are critical and attendants want urgent attention. SRs say they have to face unruly attendants and are even beaten up despite working amid various shortcomings. They allege the administrative lapses are always brushed under the carpet.
 
 “The shortage of JRs and SRs in emergency division is a common problem. Last year, the residents wrote to the administration in this regard, but no concrete action has been taken,” said a doctor.
 
 According to sources, one of the reasons behind the large number of vacancies is that many resident doctors quit their jobs, which are temporary in nature, to appear for entrance examinations between March and July. 
 
 “AIIMS held walk-in interview for vacant posts of SR in the emergency unit last month but no one turned up,” Kumar said.
 
 AIIMS spokesperson   conceded there were vacancies in the emergency and some other departments. “The institute issued advertisements recently but no one turned up so we are trying to manage with the existing staff. Also, more academic junior residents are likely to join later this month which, we hope, will help tide over the current crisis,” he said.
 
 
