GURUGRAM: Residents of Sector 56 have decried the   in the area, saying such stretches have made their commute more accident-prone. Residents said dim streetlights caused vehicles, especially two-wheelers, to sometimes slump into the hole.

 Residents said such bad roads were strewed across Sector 56 and they had also apprised the MCG of the situation. “If one is travelling along   to Devendra Vihar road, they will come across this problem,” said Sudhir Bhardwaj, president of Sector 56 RWA. “Not only are they making the commute extremely dangerous, they are also causing discomfort to all of us.”
 
 Bhardwaj said they took up the issue with MCG. “MCG men came some days ago and filled the   with concrete,” he said. “The road looks like new, but we are worried, since it is the monsoon season, the concrete might wear off due to rain.”
 
 Other residents too echoed similar concerns. “During rains, all work undertaken by MCG is put on halt. We are thankful to MCG that they repaired the road, but what we need is a macadamisation of this road,” Deepak, another resident, said. 
 
 Residents said there were still plenty of spots were potholes and craters were galore and still posed threat to the local traffic moment. “The holes are about two feet wide. Recently a two-wheller-borne woman injured her legs after the front wheel plunged into one of these craters. While MCG does fill up a plenty of them, many are left unattended.”
 
 Bhardwaj also said near the  , a small pond had been formed in which mosquitoes are breeding. “There are upscale societies like   and   in the vicinity, for whom this breeding ground could prove to a health hazard,” he added.
 
 When contacted, MCG spokesperson S S Rohilla said, “MCG will send a team for fogging the area. As far as filling the potholes are concerned, we can only fill them with concrete currently. Although there is no rainfall, we have to be alert because it is the monsoon season. After the monsoon, we will be resuming all our road construction work.”
 
 
