Fests at North Campus colleges have been facing a lot of managerial as well as security issues this past week. On Sunday, composers Sachin-Jigar cancelled their performance at   citing managerial issues. On Monday evening, a gas leak and a   caused Punjabi actor-singer   to cut short his performance at   after just 15 minutes. As the swelling crowds became difficult to manage, cylinders kept near the stage for visual effects began to leak while some electric wires caused a short circuit, and panic ensued.

  
  Not only DU students, but outsiders also came in large numbers to watch Diljit’s performance at Hans Raj College on Monday, which resulted in unruly crowds (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
 Diljit arrived two-hours late, by which time the crowd had swelled in numbers and broken the barricading near the stage. The students' union had made two sections for the crowd. The first section was for students, which was divided into areas for girls and boys. One of the barricades from this section had already been broken before he came. Another section was for his crew, teachers and students’ union members – this section was eventually occupied by students and outsiders who rushed to see Diljit when he arrived. As soon as the singer came on stage, he said, "Please dhakka mat do, aaram se enjoy karo, maan jao." 
 
  By the time Diljit finished his second song, a member from his team had cautioned the pushing crowd to not step on the gas cylinders kept in front of the stage, which were being used for fog effects. However, people ended up stepping on the cylinders and a leak began. As soon as this happened, Diljit said, "We asked you not to step on these, they are leaking now, sab peechhe ho jao." 
 
  As the crowd rushed backwards in panic, someone tripped on an electric wire on the ground which caused a short circuit, and many students felt a minor electric shock from the barricades. This added to the commotion as students tried to move back. Diljit left quickly and the fest was immediately stopped by the organizers, and the crowd was asked to vacate the ground. 
 
  
  These cylinders, which were kept near the stage for smoke effects, leaked after students came too close to the stage and stepped on them, leading to a commotion (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Navjot Kaur, a Mata Sundri College student who was there, was trying to find her friend. She told us, "I was standing in the front. Mujhe barricades se current laga toh main peechhe bhaagi, mere slippers bhi wahin reh gaye. Sab log humare upar gir gaye thay. We thought that this is Hans Raj, everything will be well-organized, but this isn’t what we had expected."
 
  Mani Rana, who came from Daulat Ram College, said, "I was among those standing in front. Everyone started saying, ‘Cylinder leak ho gaya, bhago blast ho jayega’, and we just ran. The management was really poor."
 
 
  
  Even before the singer arrived, the crowd had broken the barricades near the stage (BCCL/Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The police officials on duty too were complaining about the management. "Kitna samjhao, yeh bachche mante hi nahin. Inhone toh stage ke paas barricading bhi nahin ki huyi thi, jo doosre colleges mein hoti hai. Nobody is allowed to come on the stage during the performance, par yahaan har kisi ko stage ke upar jana tha."
 
  Another official added, "Aage cylinder rakhne hi nahi chahiye thay. Rakhe bhi thay, toh wahan barricading kar dete, toh koi aa nahin pata. Par students ko jitna bol lo, woh nahin mante hain."
 
  
  After the leak and short circuit, students were asked to vacate the ground immediately, which led to a stampede-like situation (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
 "We had everything, a fire brigade and an ambulance. We never expected the situation to go out of hand this way. We've also attended many fests, aisa kabhi kahin nahin hua. The cylinders were put there only for effects, by our event manager. This is his mistake, he should have handled it better," said Yogesh Chaudhary, general secretary of the students' union. The event manager, though, was nowhere to be found, and when we tried to get in touch with him, his phone was switched off. After the whole fracas, Diljit told us, "I am always excited to perform in Delhi. I was happy to see such massive turnout. It’s unfortunate that the situation became uncontrollable."
 
 
