KOLKATA: It was unfair to judge an Indian institute of higher education by its ability to figure among the global top 100 and that the country should evolve its own system of rankings, said   chairman  .

 At an alumni felicitation event in  , he pointed out that India needed to look into its own weakness in the current education system and reduce the overwhelming bureaucratic burden. Calling for a need to free the universities from external control, the   demanded an immediate need of freedom and dignity for teachers.
 
 “In India, the global rankings, in which very few institutes participate, are seen as a seal of approval. The political executives ask me why our HEIs don’t feature in the top 100. But for Indian universities, not featuring in the top 100 globally is not a failure. It is rather a failure not to know where one stands. We need to evolve our own ranking system because our constraints are different.”
 
 While discussing his concept and formula of emerging as a world-class research intensive university, UGC chairman championed the need to remove fragmentation of institutions. “There can’t be a standalone university. We have fragmented the higher education system and we need to dissolve boundaries in .” 
 
 Ved Prakash also discussed creating a differential tuition fee structure. According to him, those who can afford to pay a higher tuition fee should do so, while the less fortunate should be made to pay a subsidized amount. “But policy makers and students won’t allow the introduction of differential tuition fee. Another factor that influences setting up a world-class research-intensive university is the location. Such institutes should be in major urban centres. Setting up a university at Koraput won’t allow it to compete and emerge among the top global universities.”
 
 But the image of JU received a set back in front of the UGC chairman when he faced a section of SFI students shouting slogans and waving black flags on campus.   termed the demonstration “unfortunate”.
 
