THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The vigilance special Judge here on Thursday ordered to shift the two retired officials of state health services, who were sentenced for imprisonment on charges of corruption, to jail. Former directors of health services   and K Shylaja had been staying in   here claiming health problems. 

 The court order is based on an examination report submitted by a doctor of Sree Chitra Medical Sciences and Technology that stated that while Rajan suffered from a heart condition, Shylaja was fit to be shifted to the jail.
 
 Following this, the court ordered to shift Rajan to the prison cell in the Medical College Hospital with police security. Shylaja was taken to women’s jail at   here.
 
 The case was that in 2002, the two convicts conspired to procure excess stock of Hepatitis-B vaccines in the name of a non-existent immunisation drive. Both the officials were sentenced to five years of imprisonment on Tuesday. 
 
 However, after the court sentence, both Rajan and Shylaja complained of physical illness, following which the police took them to the government hospital at Fort. 
 
 The doctor who consulted them said that both had high blood pressure and referred them to the Medical College Hospital (MCH), where they were admitted to in the night.
 
 On Wednesday, the police filed a report before the court sans any report of the MCH doctors. The judge expressed his displeasure and questioned the authenticity of the report. He also expressed his doubt over the possibility of the doctor helping the two convicts to remain in the hospital. He also directed the director of Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Science and Technology to assign a doctor of their institution to examine the two convicts in a bid to find out whether their claims were true. 
 
 The judge had also expressed his displeasure in the act of the cops, who accompanied the convicts, for taking the convicts to the government hospital at Fort while it was clearly mentioned in the sentence order that they must be consulted only by the prison doctor.
 
 Also on Thursday, the court had examined the statements of three doctors, MCH superintendent Dr M S Sharmad, Dr Rajasekharan of MCH and Dr Priyanka of Government Hospital, Fort, in connection with the developments.
 
