GURGAON: Women across Gurgaon started speaking up on social media about horrifying experiences on the roads of Gurgaon and Delhi, a day after a young software professional wrote a post narrating how men in an SUV had grabbed her arm in the middle of a road and tried to pull her into the vehicle. 

 The 26-year-old fought off the kidnapping attempt at a busy  , Gurgaon’s busiest junction, around 7pm on January 9, moments after she had got off a Volvo from Jaipur. She had just walked a few paces, trying to book a cab, when the men grabbed her hand. 
 
 Members of a   on which she shared her post lauded the young woman for her bravery — she is yet to file a police complaint but said she had spoken up to sound a caution for others — while narrating their own   experiences. 
 
 One woman, who TOI is not naming because she wished to remain anonymous revealed how her teenaged daughter had been harassed by a boy who worked near the housing society in West Delhi where the family lives. “My daughter was so petrified that she started avoided getting out of the house. I shared it on the group because I thought doing so will help other find the courage to speak up too,” she said. 
 
 There were others who shared their experiences of commuting to and from Iffco Chowk. “There seems to be something wrong at Iffco Chowk. A few years back, when I got off a colleague’s car and was waiting for my driver to pick me up, a car stopped and asked me if I wanted to get in. I moved away immediately,” said Vinod Kumari, who runs a naturopathy centre. 
 
 The posts were not restricted to harassment and molestation cases. A mother of two who lives in Nirvana Country wrote, “I was at a nursery when someone told me my car’s coolant was leaking. I drove to the petrol pump and asked the staff there to fix it. As I got off, someone took away my bag and ran. When I saw the CCTV footage, I found that the man had been tailing me for some time.” 
 
 “The community as a whole stands shocked and helpless. Members have raised questions about safety in the city,” said  , administrator of the group. Kaushik added that in a quick online poll, members had indicated Gurgaon needs better street lighting, more police presence on roads, and working CCTV cameras.
 
 Most women TOI spoke to said that citizens should also be sensitised to help people in trouble. “If men are trying to grab a woman on a busy road, it not only means law and order has failed, but also that we as a society have too,” said another community member. 
 
 The IT professional who was molested on Iffco Chowk had screamed for help but no one had come to her aid. “This is an extremely scary incident and I am happy it has been reported. It will at least get the attention of the authorities. They must check CCTV cameras installed at the spot,” said Sarah Rehman, a home chef. 
 
 
