Late director Rajesh Pillai’s Traffic set off the so-called ‘new generation’ movies back in 2011, heralding a much-needed change in Malayalam cinema. 

 Now, six years since the release of the movie and a year after the filmmaker’s death, the movie’s screenplay has been included as part of Kannur University’s BA Malayalam curriculum.
  Traffic thus joins the list of elite screenplays such as a MT Vasudevan Nair’s Perumthachan, Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha and Ranjith’s Pranchiyettan and the Saint to be taught in art colleges across Kerala.
 
  Jayachandran Keezhoth, Chairman of UG board of studies, Kannur University, had mooted the idea last year while Rajesh was still alive. “Traffic is an award-winning film and both students and teachers unanimously expressed interest in including it as part of the syllabus. We also thought it would be beneficial for the students as a lot of details about what went behind the scenes and discussions with the scriptwriters Bobby and Sanjay, and director is part of the text,” he says.”
 
 The screenplay is part of the sixth semester subject Arangum Porulum for BA Malayalam students and the inclusion was part of a revision of the syllabus based on the recommendations of the B Hridayakumari committee made a few years ago. The semester started in December and will end in March. However, the screenplay will be taught only from next week, Jayachandran confirms.
 
 “We got the textbooks only a fortnight ago and so, the lecturers would be taking it as the last module of the semester,” he says. But the students have already started reading the text, and have begun requesting their professors to invite the scriptwriters Bobby and Sanjay for a lecture.
  Sanjay tells us that he has indeed agreed and would be visiting Kannur for a talk at an event organised by the university campus soon. Close to 200 institutions comprising government, aided and unaided colleges would be utilising the prescribed syllabus. Sanjay says, “It’s the most fitting tribute to Rajesh Pillai.” The director had passed away on February 27, 2016, due to liver-related ailments. The Hindi remake of Traffic, which Rajesh had directed, was released after his death.
 
 On making the screenplay into a book, Sanjay says, “Soon after the movie was released, we got a request for it to be made into a book but neither Bobby nor I save our screenplays. Fortunately Rajesh had done it, and so the original version was used as the material. Rajesh was very much involved when we approved the idea. He even had planned to write a chapter. But due to his untimely passing last year, that didn’t happen.”
 
 For the students, it’s an exciting subject, as Linet Mariya K, a third year BA Malayalam student from Nirmalagiri College, Koothuparambu, says. “We had a screening of the movie on Friday as a prelude to the course and though we have seen the film several times before, it was still a thrilling experience and most of us even had long discussions about it after the screening,” she explains, adding that her friends have started reading the script and it offers a different perspective on the movie’s making.
 
  Her batchmate Seetal Rajiv concurs, adding that most students are all for including more film-related courses in the syllabus as it would be engaging for them. The group now are eagerly awaiting the lectures to begin the module on Traffic.
 
