An exorbitant restaurant bill can often ruin your entire dining experience -especially when you are asked to pay a huge `additional' amount as taxes and charges. However, on Monday, in reply to a clarification sought by the  , the government made it clear that customers can choose not to pay the service charge component of the bill if they are not happy with the restaurant's service. But, is saying no really that simple? Not exactly, as CT found out.ARE SERVICE CHARGE AND TAX THE SAME?

 Many restaurants levy a service charge, which is supposed to be an alternative for tips. This is apart from the service tax paid by the customers. But how many of us knew that? “I had no clue that service tax and service charge were not the same,“ said Pritikona Purkait, a homemaker, who lives near Sinthee More. On being probed, she admitted that she never bothered to pay attention to the breakups on the bill before. “When we visit a new-age eatery , we know that the cost is going to be higher than any normal restaurant. So, neither me nor my husband bothered to pay attention,“ she rued.
 
 On the other hand, Bikash Adhikary held his ground saying that the service tax and the service charge were all the same. On explaining the difference, he said, “So, all this while I had been paying extra money for nothing. I always leave `100200 for the waiters as tip. I feel like a fool now!“
 
 THANKS TO SOCIAL MEDIA
 
 Whoever said virtual world is bad, should think again. After talking to a few young professionals we came to know how online mediums like Facebook, Twitter etc have been educating people about financial developments as well. A few years back, I had no idea what service charge exactly meant. But in the last couple of months, a number of videos have been shared on   that explained how we could avoid paying all those extra money , which were not mandatory . And yes, a number of   my friends and I have escalated the issue of service charge to the restaurant authorities. If the service is not worth paying, why should we pay?“ quipped Smriti Agarwal, a CA by profession.
 
 Prosenjit Das, a banker, said, “Though I was aware of the difference between the service tax and service charge, many like my wife didn't not know that they could actually say no to service charges levied by an eatery . So, when my wife read the news on Twitter, she asked me to explain the situation. I think social media is doing a great job in keeping people updated about current affairs.“
 
 SAYING `NO' EMBARRASSING
 
 Customers often find it embarrassing to speak up in public. As Sudipta Paul, assistant engineer at an MNC in  , explained, “It's difficult to refuse, you see. What would others think? That is our primary concern. I am sure many of us won't utter a word even if we are unhappy with the hospitality or food at any restaurant. So, I think there should be more clarity on the subject. State government should pass clear directives on the same.“ Again, Smriti raised a perti nent point. She said, “There can be instances where you are gen uinely disappoint ed and dissatisfied, but people at the restaurant can be really persuasive.Then, what do you do?“
 
 THE BIG TIP DEBATE IS ON...
 
 According to the new norms, restaurants and hotels have to put up notices at an appropriate place on their premises saying that “service charges are discretionary“. When quizzed about it, big players in the business chose to remain tightlipped on the topic. Debashish Ghosh, GM, Hoppipola and Mainland China, said, “Yes, we have been charging 10% service charge, but our corpo rate division has not released any such directive about what to do next. So, we don't want to comment on it.“
 
 Owner of What's Up café, Anamika, told us, “We are not planning to put up a board right now.
 
 It's clearly writ ten on our menu card that we charge extra, but it is entirely on our customers' discretion. We have been charging 10% as service charge and none of our customer has ever refused to pay that extra money -maybe because our service is worth it.“
 
 
