THANE: Even though the lake-city has been witnessing an increasing in the number of tree fall cases this monsoon, the overall   district has increased by close to 14 lakh. This has been possible because of the state-wide mega   that took place from July 1 to 7.

 Over the past one week, over 25,000 civic officials, police and administrative officials, environmentalists, citizens, teachers and students marched across the city with saplings, shovels and raincoats to be a part of this   project.
 
 In a span of just seven days, the entire district witnessed the actualization and surpassing of the ambitious nine lakh tree plantation goal set given to the Thane forest department by the state government.
 
 From barren and vacant lands and forest area which had lost their green cover to forest fires and illegal hacking, to civic gardens, roadside pathways, school and society gardens, each open space in the urban and rural pockets of the district was given a new lease of life.
 
 The drive saw a variety of sapling plantations including bamboo, medicinal sapling, native trees, flowering, fruit trees, decorative, small rooted plants for roadside plantation, mangrove saplings, in a total area of 1,227 hectare across 29 areas in the district.
 
 “Of the total 13 lakh and 97 thousand plantations which took place in the district over the past one week, five lakh and 54 thousand were conducted by the forest department. These stretches face a lot of deforestation because of tree falls, forest fires and other natural calamities. Due to this, a lot of green cover is lost. While we were given a target of nine lakh plantations in the district, we were aiming to plant 15 lakh saplings. Even though we couldn’t reach our 15 lakh target, we have successfully made the district much greener with the help of over 25,000 citizens and environmentalists who joined the drive,” said deputy conservator of forests Dr. Jitendra Ramgaokar.
 
 Like last year, the officials have used technology to map the actual number of trees planted in order to ensure their survival rate in the years to come.
 
 “The tree plantation drive is a continuous drive and doesn’t end with the planting of saplings. We have to keep monitoring their growth and survival rate, which is where Geo-tagging helps. We have geo-tagged each of the saplings planted over the past one week. Of the 13.97 lakh planted this week, 12.95 lakh were geo-tagged before the plantation as the coordinate of their pits were pre-decided and mapped, whereas the remaining 1.02 lakh were tagged after the drive. The city saw fewer plantations, isolated to housing societies, schools and private institutions,” said Dr. Ramgaokar.
 
 While the massive plantation drive seemed to receive an outstanding response, city environmental activists fear that these trees may not live for too long because of the lack of planning during the plantation of various plants and the unpredictable maintenance they would require.
 
  “Each area can support only particular type of plants. We have been seeing so many tree falls cases during the monsoon, and most of this is due to the small size pits that is surround by concrete. Each of the planted saplings needs to be taken care of over the years, as they will require special care,” said a city-based environmentalist.
 
 While the state target last year was 2 crore trees, their target this year was slated to be 4 crore. In the next year the target will be increased to 13 crore trees, followed by 33 crore trees in 2019.
 
 
