The next time you feel like heading out for a brisk walk on the beach or simply to enjoy the rain there, think again. You may have to watch your step carefully, for the venomous   — also known as   — that were washed ashore the   and   a few days ago, could be back. And this time, in larger numbers. Marine conservationist Pradip Patade, affirms this. “We spotted these creatures over a week ago and it was a bit scary, as these are places have a heavy public presence, almost all the time.” He cautions that they may not be seen now, but the creatures could be back at any time. “I took a walk at Girgaum Chowpatty yesterday morning and they were gone. This could be due to any number of reasons. This could be due to any number of reasons. But these fish were again observed in large numbers in Goa a few days ago and might arrive on the city beaches very soon as the monsoon winds and strong currents could carry them till here.”
police and lifeguards issue a warning: 
 
 
  
  
 Mumbai police is doing their bit to caution the public against any Portuguese Man o’ War attacks. Says PSI Patil of the Marine Drive Police Station, “Ever since the blue bottles were seen, we have been warning people to not venture close to the water and to be careful. It’s crucial not to touch any objects that you see. Sometimes, people pick up the creatures in an attempt to throw them back into the sea. This is dangerous, as a single   can deliver sharp pain. We hope that the public understands the risk as earlier people did not take heed to the no-selfie warning in the same area. On our part, we are deploying patrol cars and constables on field. But the public must realise the danger that these creatures pose and be extremely watchful.”
 
 
 
  
  
 These dangerous marine fish can hit any of the beaches and shorelines. Sunil Kanojia of the city’s lifeguards association says Juhu Beach is also a high-risk area. “We had spotted these fish at Juhu Beach on July 12th and 13th and luckily, they were spotted in the early hours when no enters the sea. We quickly sent warning messages and posted lifeguards there and they were lifted and taken away from the sea. But the danger is that these fish can get washed ashore at any time, even during peak public hours. So, people should not touch them and avoid entering the water whenever the bubble, balloon-type creatures are spotted. They can be anywhere in the water and can sting you badly. Once they latch onto the skin, the skin gets red and any allergic reactions can even lead to organ failure. July and August is the main season for   and blue bottles and this also migration season for them. They have been spotted in Goa a few days ago and as they float very fast, they well can migrate to any of Mumbai beaches, easily.”
 
 
 
  
  
 Pradip talks about how Goa is doing so much to raise awareness levels about the dangers of these marine organisms and Mumbai needs to follow suit. “Officials from the public health and fisheries departments must monitor city beaches more closely during the rains and take stronger measures to avoid accidents. They must place notices at the spot to alert people at the spot as well as guards,” he added. The   (BMC) is going to put up a boards on the city’s beaches, in order to caution citizens against blue bottles. Says Devidas Kshirsagar, Assistant Commissioner, D Ward, “We will be putting up boards for public awareness at Girgaum Chowpatty. We have asked the health department to be prepared as well.”
 
 
 When you get stung by a blue bottle, its tentacles stick to the skin. It causes severe inflammation, itching and redness. Heed these tips at this time…
 1. Don’t touch or rub the skin.
 2. Rinse the skin with salt water to alleviate pain and remove the tentacles.
 3. Put hot water on the affected area.
 4. Rush to a doctor and seek medical help.
 
 
  
  
 When you see a dried out blue bottle in the water on or the sands, do not pick it up or step on it as it can still carry a potent sting. 
 
 
 One of the most common mistakes is to confuse a bottle with a jellyfish. A blue bottle is a siphonophore — a colonial organism composed of several individual animals called zooids. It gets its name from its uppermost part, which is a gas-filled bladder and looks like an old warship. It has thin, long tentacles with venom, which deliver an extremely painful sting.
 
 
 
