Mumbai:   from overseas Indians has been dropping continuously for the last five quarters, contributing to the widening of current account deficit ( ). The trade gap has also widened due to lower software exports.

 Balance of payment data released on Thursday, shows that net personal transfers — which are largely remittances by Indians employed overseas—fell to $13.6 billion during the   quarter from $14.9 billion, a drop of 9.7%.
 
 According to numbers released by the  , the current account deficit widened to $ 7.9 billion (or 1.4% of  ) in Q3FY17 as compared to $ 7.1 billion (1.4% of GDP) in Q3FY16 and $ 3.4 billion in (0.6% of GDP) in Q2FY17. The CAD is the difference between income from exports and imports, plus the difference from between outbound and inbound investment income.
 
 A statement issued by the Central bank said that the CAD widened despite a slightly lower trade deficit year-on-year, primarily on account of a decline in net invisibles receipts. Invisible includes remittances from software, services and money sent by Indians working oversea. Net services receipts moderated compared to Q3FY16, due to a fall in earnings from software, financial services and charges for intellectual property rights.
 
 From April to December, however, the deficit halved to 0.7%, from 1.4% a year ago. 
 
 This was primarily because of fall in earnings from software, financial services and charges for intellectual property rights. 
 
 Earnings from software exports have been declining year-on-year, but the third quarter has seen a sequential increase in software exports over the second quarter.
 
 The net foreign direct investment of $9.8 billion during the reporting quarter was marginally lower than last year. The RBI said that there was a net outflow of portfolio investment of about $11.3 billion during the period in both equity and debt segments, as against a net inflow of $0.6 billion in the year-ago period. During the current fiscal, net   rose 12.3% to $30.6 billion as compared to April-December 2016.
 
 Another reason for the weaker balance of payment position was the large-scale redemption of FCNR(B) deposits raised under a special scheme in 2013 to counter the falling rupee. NRI deposits declined by $18.5 billion as against an inflow of $1.6 billion in the year-ago period due to redemption of these special deposits.
 
 
