HYDERABAD: The state government has decided to bring the abkari (excise) year forward from July to April. The new excise calendar will be integrated with the financial year. The decision has been taken at the high-level meeting chaired by chief minister   on Friday. The  's directive to close down wine shops close to the national highways by March 31 has mainly prompted the government to think about shifting of the abkari calendar from July-June to April-March period. 

 According to sources, the chief minister directed officials of the excise and prohibition department to come up with more suggestions with regard to guidelines of the new policy.
 
 A final decision on the policy is likely to be taken after presentation of the budget in the assembly next week. The policy, after getting the chief minister's nod, will be announced on March 23 or 24.
 
 According to information, the government has decided to drastically slash the licence fee to avoid payment of massive amounts of service tax to the Centre. Instead, the government would levy excise duty to make good the revenue lost in the form of licence fee reduction.
 
 Sources said that there could be some changes in the policy depending on the Supreme Court's verdict on the writ petitions filed by various state governments and dealers' associations. The   posted the case to March 20. Earlier, it directed the state governments to close down the wine shops within a radius of 500 metres from the highways. Subsequently, the state government conducted a study and found that nearly 3,150 out of the 4,350 shops were within the radius of 500 metres from highways. The excise and prohibition department issued notices to all the 3,159 shops for making arrangements either for relocation or shutting down. About 1,300 licencees are reported to have agreed to relocate while rest filed petitions in the Supreme Court.
 
 "We are seriously contemplating shifting of the abkari year to April following the SC directive. The CM has directed us to ready to implement the new policy," excise minister   told TOI.
 
 Geo-tagging of all wine shops and setting up of surveillance cameras would be made mandatory under the new policy. A decision with regard to continuation of the shops near highways till the expiry of licence period in June would be taken at next meeting.
 
