HYDERABAD: It's not just lack of staff that is standing between consumers and their deposit amount, but the non-division of assets under the 10th Schedule of the   because of which scores of petitioners are waiting for years to get their money.

 According to court authorities, at least ` 2 crore money of those from Telangana, deposited as statutory amount before filing a case in the state consumer forum, is stuck because the files pertaining to their cases are not separated as per the jurisdiction of their respective states.
 
 “My money has been with the court for at least two years now. Every time I call the state consumer forum, I get the same reply that they don't have my file,“ said Bhaskar D, a petitioner.
 
 Expressing her bitterness over the fate of her deposit money , another consumer,  , wanted to know why they should suffer on account of the delay in bifurcation of assets of the forum between   and Telangana. “I don't understand why we have to suffer. If AP forum has our file, they could dispose it and give us our money , if Telangana has it, they can do the same. Unnecessarily , they are making us wait for years,“ she lamented.
 
 The court officials, meanwhile, said that even they are helpless and could not help the litigants to get the statuary deposit money back till assets are bifurcated.
 
 “Daily we get many calls from petitioners asking about their money . But, the problem is their files are still with AP consumer court and till those files are handed over to us, nothing can be done,“ said V   , assistant registrar, Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum adding that the majority of files have been already damaged because of rodents.Del ving into the root of the problem, Reddy said, “We were not placed under the 10th schedule till May 7, 2015. So, after bifurcation, we started dividing all assets between both the forums and were almost finished with the process, but all of a sudden the process abruptly ended because we were brought under the 10th schedule,“ he said. He said that the problem would persist till AP consumer forum moves out leaving Telangana property here.
 
 Ironically, although the state consumer forum is under the 10th schedule of AP Reorganization Act, the forum has two heads (read presidents), one for AP and other for Telangana.
 
