Nagpur: Though many lament the dying of culture and religious customs, Shubhada Hardas, a musician by profession, has actually worked to not just revive traditions like Manglagaur puja but is organizing them for others too. “For my daughter’s Mangalagaur puja, very few guests turned up though I had made extensive arrangements, that disappointed me a lot,” says Hardas, who for the last five years has been organizing a community celebration of this essentially Maharashtrian Brahmin custom. All four Tuesdays of Shravan month are sacred in Maharashtra when newly married girls pray to Shiva for well being of their spouses. “On the first Tuesday, puja is offered in the home of girl’s parents and the last one at that of in-laws,” says Hardas. “But working women who are short of time and breaking down of joint families has made many household do away with this ritual. Besides, now our neighbourhoods are also becoming very cosmopolitan. So, it is difficult to get newly married girls to attend this event,” says Hardas. A chance reading of an advertisement outside a temple in Kolhapur about a community celebration of Mangala Gaur gave Hardas this idea of following this pattern in Nagpur too. “I now hire a hall where I organize the puja which is performed by a pandit and the traditional games like jimma phugadi, singing of songs and dance are organized. Arrangements for lunch and snacks for those participating and their guests too are made at the hall. This way, it becomes a large gathering where everybody gets to follow the customs and have fun too,” explains Hardas. An artistically decorated venue also gives the celebrations an aesthetic touch. “We start at 10.30am with puja where the girls worship Shivling with leaves of bel, dhurva and sixteen varieties of leaves. Aarti is performed collectively which we sing along with musical instruments. Lunch comprising of pure Maharashtrian dishes like pooran poli, patal bhaji, masala bhat is served. After a little rest in the afternoon, the girls dress up in nine yard saris and ornaments to do activities like jimma phugadi which is a dance form and have dance sequences on songs like ‘ghemo re Rama pawa vazude’ and ‘goff venu bai goff venu’ after which snacks like jalebi and batata vada are served,” she informs. Hardas charges a fee for this but says that it barely covers the cost of organizing the event. “I end up paying some amount from my pocket. But people for whom I organize it give me a lot of blessings saying that they could never have done it at this scale.” Finding the entire concept very economical and time saving, music teacher Anita Sathe who has a Punjabi daughter-in-law, says, “My son and his wife are working in another city. By registering for this community celebration, I did not have to make any efforts as they came for a day and we performed all the rituals there. My daughter-in-law also got a fair idea of our traditions.” Describing it as an excellent example of learning about religion through fun and games, radio jockey Neha Khanzode says, “ For me it was godsend as I could connect with my family and have fun too” The cultural connect, too, is immense, says Radhika Poundarik a teacher. “I never knew about the traditional games which I got to play at this puja.”