AGRA: Pharmacist Pankaj Agarwal is in a bind. A traditional BJP voter in Agra's Taj Ganj area, this time, Agarwal is facing a dilemma. On the one hand, business has been slower since ' '. On the other, a new ruling by the Centre governing pharmacies threatens to cripple what's left of his business.This rule mandates that in addition to obtaining a drug licence, drug stores register a licensed pharmacist associated with their stores to remain in business.

 While drug licences were easy to obtain and cost much less, pharmacists are in short supply and come at a much higher price. In effect, though this decision will weed out spurious drug sellers, it's also forcing people like Agarwal, with small corner stores, out of business.
 
 “I've run this   for 16 years. I believe that Modiji is taking decisions in people's best interests. For this, I support him.But in this case, I feel he has not consulted the people who were about to be affected. The big players will survive, but smaller drug stores like mine will become unviable,“ Agarwal said.
 
 Saying he has regularly paid his taxes and tried to remain afloat, Agarwal added, “Hum to Baniya hain, dukaan band hui to cheeni bhi bech lenge...lekin junta ko bahut nuksaan hua hai (I am a Baniya. I will send sugar if not medicines but public will be at a loss).“
 
 In the thickly populated tourist zone where businesses thrive because of tourist footfall, demonetisation has served as a silent killer. Shops are running empty , and the region believed to be traditionally divided on communal and caste lines is suddenly united in the need for jobs and cash.
 
 Haseen, a marble inlay artist, said the one thing affecting everyone regardless of religion or caste is the downturn in business. He has had no work orders and has made only less than half of what he usually earned--Rs 8,000 a month--since November 2016. Haseen, a marble inlay artist, said, “Kya karein? Ya family ko khana khila dein, ya bachhon ko school bhejein. School se phone aata hai to batana mushkil hai. Gareeb hain, magar humari bhi izzat hai (I can either feed my family or pay school fees. When school authorities call, it is difficult to answer. We may be poor but we have self-respect).“
 
 Ask them why demonetisation, if it has hit people so hard, is not an election issue, and Arif Khan 'Mev', a tailor in the old city said: “The media has been managed. The rich were mildly affected, but the poor who depended upon them, suffered. On top of that, government is asking us to keep our money in the bank and wants us to queue up for subsidies as well. “ Chaudhary Brijesh Singh, a cloth merchant, said he is hopeful the BJP will usher in “acche din“ for people in Agra.“Kamal khilna chahiye. Lekin Mulayam ke ladke se tough fight hai (The lotus should bloom but the fight with Mulayam's son is a tough one),“ he said. The BSP, he added, will have to wait another five years to become relevant in UP.Singh added, “All the politics in UP is currently focussed on minorities. Everyone wants them. And they seem to be veering towards the cycle.“
 
