PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivhan Mahamandal Limited ( ) has decided to organise a special training session to make its drivers and conductors more tolerant and well-behaved.

 The most errant staff members will be selected for the programme, officials said. 
 
  officials said the decision was taken after a criminal offence was registered against a bus driver and conductor after they abandoned a bleeding senior citizen on a roadside on December 26.
 
 The bus was plying between Bhosari and Dighi, when the driver applied sudden brakes on noticing a speed breaker. The victim,   (65), of Charholi, fell down and sustained injuries on his mouth and chin. The driver and conductor lifted Abhang out of the bus, took him down and left him bleeding close to a brick kiln near Dighi and drove away instead of taking him to a hospital.
 
 “We have the service record of all PMPML staff members. We will select candidates for training after checking past performance. Staff members, especially those who directly deal with the public, will be selected on priority,” Anant Waghmare, general manager (operations) of PMPML told TOI.
 
 He said a list of 500 people would be finalised based on the number of complaints received against them. A weekly or monthly training module will be designed. Sessions on anger management, customer care, personality development, work ethics and Yoga would be included. Help from a psychologist and psychiatrist would also be sought on a case-by-case basis.
 
 “The aim is to increase the tolerance of staffers. Training will reduce quarrels. PMPML will be able to provide safe and secure service with the help of such a programme. Road accidents involving buses will also go down,” Waghmare said.
 
 According to PMPML data, over 100 residents, mostly two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, have lost their lives in accidents involving buses in the last three years.
 
 PMPML runs a total of 2,000 buses in the city. Of this, 750 are privately run. According to experts, most accidents involve private hired buses and private contractors. 
 
 “PMPML is not serious about bringing discipline among its drivers and conductors. They take action just as a token. Punishment given to errant staffers is minor and does not act as a deterrent. So drivers and conductors have become thick-skinned,” said  , founder of  , a citizens’ organisation.
 
