HYDERABAD: The state government is seeking withdrawal of Rs 50 penalty per day that is to be be paid by owners of transport vehicles if they fail to renew their   annually, sources said.

 As per a recent gazette notification issued by the Government of India, the fee structure for various services offered by   across the country has been revised with a hike of 100-300% being affected. After relevant provisions of the   were amended, the central government directed all the State government to implement the revised fee structure.
 
 Besides, RTA services, penalty amounts have also been revised. In the case of renewal of fitness certificates for a transport vehicles, the penalty fixed is Rs 50 per day with retrospective effect. For instance, if a transport vehicle is due for fitness renewal on 1 February 2016 and this has not been done even a year later, obtaining the certificate will attract Rs 50 per day as penalty. The total penal amount payable for the vehicle would be Rs 18,250.
 
 A senior official in the transport department said the state government has written to the Centre seeking the withdrawal of this penalty for transport vehicles or at least re-classify the category of vehicles to be covered under the penalty clause.
 
 Officials said while the hike in the fee structure for licence fee, hypothecation and other services has not been opposed despite the increase in charges being substantial, it is the Rs 50 per day penalty in connection with fitness certificate renewal that has attracted criticism.
 
 “Auto drivers have been hit hard by the Rs 50 per day penalty. There are thousands of auto-rickshaws in the Greater Hyderabad limits for which fitness certificates have not been renewed for almost two years for various reasons. The drivers have been pleading for withdrawal of the fine as they would have to pay Rs 36,500 for a two-year delay in getting fitness certificate renewed,” said an official.
 
 “It is learnt that other state governments too are writing to the Centre to withdraw the Rs 50 per day penalty clause,” an officials said. 
 
 The RTA authorities stopped their special drive against autorickshaw drivers on Wednesday, but for other reasons. Several auto-rickshaw drivers were pleasantly surprised when the RTA server stopped accepting penalty amounts from that day. Officials told the auto drivers to come back for renewal after a week as the server was being updated. The special drive against people driving without having a valid licence however continued to be conducted by traffic police.
 
