Hyderabad: Medical technologies and services giant GE Healthcare on Thursday announced that Hyderabad-based pharma giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited ( ) will be installing India’s first-ever FlexFactory, a single-use manufacturing platform, to expand the biologics production capacity at its facility at Bachupally in Hyderabad.

 In fact, DRL will have the first FlexFactory in Asia outside China and Taiwan, GE Healthcare said here on Thursday. There are currently 23 FlexFactories deployed globally in mature and growth markets, including Turkey, Taiwan, China, Russia and US.
 
 FlexFactory will help DRL increase its capacity to meet both, the expected growth of its currently marketed biosimilars as well as support the launch of a significant portfolio of new biosimilar products in the years to come, as the overall project set-up timeline for FlexFactory is typically 9-12 months, GE Healthcare said in a communique. When contacted, a DRL spokesperson said the company is adding four bioreactors of 1KL capacity and expects it to be ready in FY2019. The spokesperson, however, refused to comment on the investment it entails. 
 
 Meanwhile, GE said the FlexFactory will enable Dr Reddy’s transition from stainless steel to single-use technologies that bring enhanced flexibility and efficiency into their manufacturing set-up. “Single-use technologies facilitate multi-product manufacturing and improve productivity by increasing the number of lots manufactured, as the changeover time between products can be reduced by 50% or more. FlexFactory can also reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 75% and water and energy usage by approximately 80%,” GE Healthcare said. “Single-use solutions are disposable biomanufacturing consumables that have become very popular in the bioprocess industry. With single-use, cleaning and steaming is minimized and sometimes eliminated, leading to reduced energy and water consumption. But most importantly, biopharmaceuticals are increasingly being developed and then produced for smaller patient populations locally or regionally, targeting the unmet medical needs,” it added. DRL’s head of biologics, Cartikeya Reddy, said: “We strongly believe that the FlexFactory platform from GE will enable us to rapidly ramp up capacity and serve more patients in both emerging and highly regulated markets.”
 
 Milind Palsule, country manager, South Asia, GE Healthcare Life Sciences, said: “We are delighted to partner with Dr. Reddy’s in their efforts to increase the availability and affordability of biopharmaceuticals globally by bringing single-use, flexible manufacturing capacity to its facility in Hyderabad.”
 
 
