Gurgaon: The   on Tuesday took possession of 142 acres of land on which 34 farmhouses stand in   through a day-long demolition drive. 

 The municipal corporation has been involved in a protracted ownership battle over 464 acres of prime land in the region, bordering Delhi and located just off the Gurgaon-Faridabad road, where the rich and powerful, including former Union ministers, have homes. A total of 324 private entities are in possession of Gwalpahari land and claim they are its rightful owners but MCG contests that and says the government is the owner of the land. 
 
 The ownership tussle in the subject of multiple lawsuits in various courts. Last month, MCG had served eviction notices to all 322 private entities. Most of them got a court stay on the notice. On Tuesday, the   acted against the ones that hadn’t.
 
 MCG had originally set out to demolish 39 farmhouses. But this number came down to 34 as five of them managed to get a stay from the Sohna civil court on Tuesday itself. About 300 police personnel, 10 earthmoving machines, 3 fire tenders and 2 ambulances were deployed during for the demolition drive but the exercise passed off smoothly, except in one case where the demolition team hastily pulled down a boundary wall of a farmhouse before the caretaker got a chance to show the court’s stay order. 
 
 Almost all of those living in the farmhouses were caretakers. The actual owners live elsewhere. Water and electricity connections were also cut off. 
 
 One of the demolished farmhouses used to be owned by Swaraj Kaushal, husband of external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj. “I had bought this land in 1988-89 and later sold it to someone in 1996-97,” Kaushal told TOI. “There was no problem whatsoever when I purchased this land, else why would I have ever bought it? Somebody else owns it now,” he added.
 
 Some of the caretakers complained they could not secure a stay as they never got the eviction notice sent by MCG. “It might have happened that these loosely pasted notice might have blown away and we never got to see it. Had we seen it we too would have secured a stay from the court like several others have,” said Ajay Kumar, a farmhouse caretaker. 
 
 Vijay, a 16-year-old, returned from his exam, to find his home gone. “I kept pleading with MCG joint commissioner YS Gupta to spare my house as I have two young daughters and a son to look after. But he just would not listen,” said Vijay’s father Jagdish Gujjar, a caretaker at one of the demolished farmhouses, who has been staying there for 12 years. 
 
 Not far away sat 60-year-old Gurdeen Singh and his wife Geeta, who are from Rae Bareli. They had no idea why the farmhouse was taken down. “They say it is their land, but how can it be when we have been taking care of this farmhouse all along? Three months ago, our son died in an accident on the Gurgaon-Faridabad road and before we could recover from this irreparable loss, we have been thrown out. We have nowhere to go except back to in Rae Bareli,” Singh said. 
 
 
