MUMBAI: In a rare instance, a magistrate court recently convicted and sentenced a   to three months in jail for stalking a school teacher for two years. He has been fined Rs 5,000 which will be paid to the woman as compensation. 

 Stalking was defined and included as a punishable offence in the Indian Penal Code through the  , 2013, in the aftermath of the Nirbhaya rape case.
 
 Sewri businessman  ,followed the 55-year-old woman while she would go to school at  . 
 
 The court said the woman’s testimony was enough to nail the accused and the fact that he stared at her amounted to making contact, which was key to proving the stalking charge. The court refused to buy the man’s claims that he used the route to make purchases at a local shop for his business.
 
 The court refused to grant the accused benefit under the Probation of Offenders Act under which he could get away without a sentence on the assurance of good behaviour. “The aggravating circumstances against the accused are that he has committed an offence against an elderly woman without any justification. His act of following her over a period of two years is quite intimidating, particularly when she was working as a teacher in the vicinity,” the court observed.
 
 The woman, in her evidence to the court, said in 2015 she was working at the school and used to commute on the harbour line train. She submitted that after getting off at the station around 7.25 am, she used to walk to the school. She has said she noticed the accused followed her all along the route. He would stop every time she did and would constantly stare at her. The victim said over the two years, she often told the accused to stop the stalking. However, he did not relent. Fearing for her safety, she filed a complaint with the cops. She submitted the stalking had left her ashamed and disturbed. The victim’s statement was recorded before a magistrate.
 
 The court, while refusing to acquit the accused, said he had failed to explain why the woman would falsely implicate him without any substantial reason. “There was no prior acquaintance of the accused and informant (victim) or for that matter any type of connection between them,” the court observed.
 
 While the maximum sentence for a first-time offender under Indian Penal Code 354D (stalking) is three years, the court considered the advanced age of the accused, the fact he had no history of crimes and the impending marriage of his daughter as mitigating circumstances to grant a lesser sentence.
 
