AHMEDABAD: A grandmother in Shahpur, a reformed bootlegger, is on a personal high. 

 Neeruben Dataniya’s granddaughter, Vanita, 24, is all set to don the khaki uniform after clearing the written test held in the first week of January, for the post of   (PSI).
 
 Vanita is a bright student with a postgraduate degree in MSc IT. 
 
 She had also topped among women in the recently concluded exam for forest guards. 
 
 “I have chosen to wear a cop’s uniform as it is my wish to work for the downtrodden and destitute and wronged women. I can serve them better by being in the force,” she says. 
 
 The granny-granddaughter duo’s journey of breaking the barrier of poverty and stigma of illegal liquor was tough. 
 
 Neeruben remembers she willingly dabbled in the risky business of brewing and ferrying country liquor to feed six mouths left behind by her two sons -- Hasmukh and Jitesh -- who died young, some 15 years ago, due liquor addiction. 
 
 “My husband was an auto driver with an income too limited to make ends meet. I was suddenly responsible for feeding my daughters-in-law and three grandchildren including Vanita,” said Neeruben.
 
 “Through some local contacts, I started selling country liquor. Somehow, I managed money to pay fees of my three grandchildren,” she added. The proud grandmother reiterates that not just Vanita but her grandsons, too, are educated. Dipesh has completed BA, while the younger, Dipen, is in TYBA. 
 
 Neeruben recalls her many trysts with the law where she spent many a night in police lock-up. 
 
 “A year-and-a-half back, I decided to quit liquor trading and opted for rehabilitation programme. I was acutely aware that my profession could cast a dark shadow on the future of my children,” Neeruben said. “I approached the deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Usha Rada. She helped me and my daughters-in-law get sewing machines,” said Neeruben.
 
 Vanita says her grandmother has worked hard to stitch a bright future for her. “Her dream is to see me in police uniform,” she said.
 
 “I have cleared the written exams and am preparing for the physical test in February. I am sure that I will become a PSI soon,” Vanita added.
 
 DCP Zone-2, Usha Rada, says Vanita's ambition to become a police officer prompted her to help her. 
 
 “I happened to meet Vanita when she came with her grandmother to the police station. I could sense her strong aspiration to be a police officer,” said Rada.
 
 “Being a police officer myself, I guided her on how to apply for the exams and how she should prepare for the exams. It was happy to know she has cracked the written test,” Rada added.
 
