CHANDIGARH: Reeling under the severe shortage of doctors, the Haryana government has started the process of recruiting 602 doctors. The posts would be advertised soon.

 Haryana has a sanctioned strength of 3,250 doctors. With around 250 doctors are either on long leave or are absent for the past some years without submitting their resignation, total shortfall is of 1,000.
 
 Health minister Anil Vij said, “We are soon going to advertise 602 posts of doctors. The agenda is also going to come up in the next cabinet meeting on May 31.”
 
 Asked about the absence of government doctors, Vij replied that the health department had started disciplinary action against them. “It is a long legal process as notices have to be issued to the absentee doctors. They have to be heard before any action can be taken against them. We cannot even make fresh recruitment on those posts till the absentees resign or are dismissed,” added Vij.
 
 In addition, the department has this month re-employed as many as 81 doctors, who had retired after attaining the age of 58 years. These also include three former director generals of health services —Dr Satvir Chaudhry, D P Lochan and N K Arora. These doctors have been re-employed for one year at civil hospitals and community health centers as medical consultant specialists and medical consultants depending on their rank of retirement and qualification.
 
 “The age of retirement of doctors has been increased to 65 years but after attaining the age of 58 years, they would have to leave the administrative posts and would have to provide clinical services only,” said Vij. The health department has passed directions that the doctors of   as well as   holding the administrative posts across the state will also have to mandatorily perform clinical duties as well.
 
 President of   Dr   said, “Till the state government does not improve doctors’ salary structure, ensure their security and remove promotion stagnation hurdles, there is going to be dearth of doctors.”
 
