SANGRUR: The death toll in the Tuesday night explosion at Sullar Gharat firecracker warehouse in   district rose to five on Wednesday, after one more body was found in the evening. Meanwhile, five persons injured in the blast have been admitted in Patiala and Sangrur hospitals.

 Sangrur deputy commissioner A P S Virk ordered sealing of four firecracker warehouses in and around Sullar Gharat village near   town. He also ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident, while the district police registered a case against two owners of  , where the explosion took place, Gandhi Ram Singla and Pradeep Kumar Singla. 
 
 Virk said the inquiry had been marked to the additional deputy commissioner (general), who has been asked to submit a report within a week so that further legal action could be initiated against the warehouse owners. The inquiry committee, which comprises of the   along with Sunam sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and Dirba deputy superintendent of police (DSP) will scrutinize the licence of the warehouse along with other documents. Permission for storage of specific firecrackers would also be scrutinised, he said.
 
 The Union ministry of industry and commerce, which is the competent authority to grant a licence for storage of firecrackers, had sanctioned only two licences for warehouses in Sullar Gharat area. However, five came up in that area over the last few years. In view of the gravity of the situation, the authorities sealed the remaining four firecracker warehouses. 
 
 Meanwhile, Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) M S Sidhu said they had registered a case against Gandhi Ram Singla and Pradeep Kumar Singla under sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 472 (making or possessing counterfeit seal among others, with intent to commit forger) of the IPC, Section 9B of the Explosives Act of 1884 and Section 3/4 of Explosive Substances Act of 1908. 
 
 Four persons who died in the explosion have been identified as Baldev Singh (25), Karamjit Singh (18), Bhupinder Singh (21) and Gursewak Singh (19). All were residents of Dhandoli Kalan village. The identity of the fifth person who died in the accident is yet to be established.
 
 The injured have been identified as Avtar Singh, who has been admitted in Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, Karanjit Singh, Gurmeet Kaur, Gurvinder Singh and Arshdeep Singh — all are residents of Khanpur Fakira village and admitted in Sangrur civil hospital. Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Kiranjot Kaur said the injured were being given free treatment.
 
 A team of the forensic experts from Chandigarh reached the blast site and collected various samples to ascertain the presence of any objectionable substances. 
 
