NASHIK: The government has earmarked Rs 30,000 crore to develop network of roads across the state as part of its 15-year plan and has allotted funds for to every division.

 With Rs 3,274 crore the Nashik division is at the bottom of the list, while Aurangabad tops the chart with a funding of Rs 6,149 crore. 
 
 State cabinet minister (PWD)   told TOI, “While allocating funds, we ensure that regional balance is maintained. But, the problem is that the roads in Marathwada have gone beyond repair. The condition of roads in Marathwada is the worst.
 
 When asked about   getting the lowest allocation, the minister asked, “How can you compare Marathwada with North Maharashtra. Marathwada has eight districts that have fairly large geographical areas, while North Maharashtra has just three districts.”
 
 It requires around Rs 2.25 crore to construct a road stretch of 1 km. Now, with the allotted money, Nashik is expected to develop around 325km roads in two years.
 
 “This is not a good sign as far as development of Nashik is concerned. The district witnessed huge inflow of funds during the time of former deputy chief minister and state PWD minister  , but now it is going down,” a senior office-bearer from Nationalist   (NCP) said.
 
 The state government has drawn the ambitious plan of deferred annuity for construction of roads in which existing roads would be widened and strengthened to up to 10 meters in width along with developing of the shoulders to ensure roads were wide enough to avoid accidents despite head-on traffic system.
 
 “Aurangabad tops the chart with Pune being second. Nagpur, unexpectedly, is only a little better than Nashik (North Maharashtra) division that is at the bottom of the chart,” a senior officer from state PWD said.
 
 “Pune division or   will get Rs 5,803 crore for developing 2,600 km of roads under the programme,” the PWD officer added.
 
 The Konkan region that also includes Mumbai is expected to receive Rs 5,657 crore for development of 2,514 km of roads, while Nagpur division is placed fifth in the chart with Rs 3,980 crore for construction of 1,770 km of roads.
 
 The construction is planned for next two years only and with the vision of traffic requirement for next 15 years.
 
 “The government is spending huge in developing connectivity in rural areas expecting that there will be huge movement of people in interiors as people take on more vehicles for commuting. The PWD offices were given the target to conduct the survey of existing road situation, estimated growth in traffic and figure out the important roads that are expected to connect major highways, industrial towns, villages, places of tourist interests etc. Accordingly the roads have been selected and the same will be developed in next two years and will be maintained for the next 15 years,” the officer said.
 
