Dr Renoj Thayyen, scientist at the   (NIH), Roorkee and coordinator of the first Indian   (IPRN) talks about India lagging behind in this crucial aspect of research

 Why was the Indian Permafrost Network (IPN) created and what has it done till now?
 
 The IPN is an idea that emerged during an international workshop on Himalayan permafrost held in New Delhi last year. As part of the project, NIH has signed a memorandum of understanding with  , Canada and is collaborating with the ICIMOD, Nepal. Preparing trained manpower is the next step in promoting the permafrost research in India. We have also established contact with the   for help in training and research and they are very positive.
 
 Studies prove that permafrost, along with glaciers has been melting elsewhere, like in the Arctic region. Can we say the same about the Indian Himalayan Region, knowing that there is a rise in the annual mean temperature?
 
 We need to conduct some focused study to say something concrete about the linkages between permafrost thaw and climate change in the region. Yes, we are working with the hypothesis that both are linked but we have to wait for the numbers to emerge.
 
 What took so long for permafrost research in the Indian Himalayan Region to begin?
 
 Glaciers and snow have a dominant role in the hydrology of the region as well as for water availability across the H i m a l aya a n d trans-Himalaya. Permafrost is more im portant in the arid regions of the Himalaya. We still do not know its spatial extent and its overall importance in the Himalayan context other than some coarse estimates. But certainly, it is a missing component in the Himalayan cryospheric system studies.
 
 How important is the research of permafrost thawing in the backdrop of climate change in the  ?
 
 It is very important as it is one of the key components of the Himalayan cryospheric system. Bringing this hidden component into the research framework is important for an understanding of the system response in the years to come.
 
 Are more permafrost studies planned or underway?
 
 Yes, field measurement and mod eling studies are underway in collaboration with Carleton University and ICIMOD in the NIH experimental catchment in Ladakh.
 
 The possibility of taking up some studies with the IHCAP is also being explored.
 
