The genesis of the Tadas story took place about 17 years ago. Around the same time, when Mahavir Singh Phogat was introducing his daughters to wrestling in Haryana, about 1,180 kilometres away in sleepy Deoli near Wardha, another ‘Dangal’ was in the making. A wrestler had started training her daughter to win a gold that he couldn’t.

 One fine day, 18-year-old Sunita was told “to come in the akhada” by her father Ramdas Tadas. A Member of Parliament now, Ramdas was a renowned wrestler back then — a four-time ‘Vidarbha Kesari’. Among his three daughters and one son, Ramdas first tried initiating his son into wrestling.
 
 “My brother did not show much interest after which Papa turned to me,” recalls Sunita, Ramdas’s third child.
 
 The doting father turned into an uncompromising taskmaster. A pit was dug, filled with red soil and thus began Sunita’s training in the makeshift akhada. Her mornings started with a glass of milk and two raw eggs. She reminisces the strict disciplinarian he was. “There was no place for running for fitness in the village. He would wake me up at 5am and we would run 7-8 kilometres on Pulgaon road. Papa always had a wooden stick to punish me whenever I would stop.”
 
 Wrestling techniques were taught orally to her once. “If I didn’t get it right the second time, Papa would ‘show’ me the takedown,” she says.
 
 Just after two weeks of rigorous training, a nervous Sunita went to participate in a state level women’s wrestling tournament in Pune. She can never forget the first two minutes of the game. “My opponent were more experienced, I could feel my body trembling.”
 
 The feeling didn’t stay for long. After the first break, it was her game. “Within a few minutes, I defeated my opponent using one of Papa’s most favourite ‘dhobi-pachhad’ move. When my coach called Papa and told I won, he wasn’t happy instantly. He first wanted to know whether I won by points or a knockout,” says Sunita.
 
 She is one of the few women who dared to fight in ‘dangals’ while she was still finding her feet in proper wrestling. Though Sunita had always played in the 62-65 kg category, her first dangal was against a 95-kg woman. “It was in Deoli and my father was sitting on the stage. I had completed two years in wrestling and was there as a spectator,” she says.
 
 The ‘pehelwan’, as Sunita calls her, had till then managed to intimidate other wrestlers into losing. While she was calling out to wrestlers for a fight, it was Ramdas who shouted “chal ja Sunita”.
 
 “I wasn’t carrying a costume and quickly borrowed one from a wrestler. When she first threw me out of the ring, papa asked me not to come home if I lose,” says Sunita, who managed finally knocked down the wrestler. It was then that she saw her father’s words come true — “Wrestling has nothing to do with weight”.
 
 Sunita’s svelte figure and painted nails do not betray the professional she is. Her medal winning performances in seven state level championships gave Sunita a berth in the state team. She went on to participate in senior nationals three times and five times at the age-category nationals. She underwent two-year training at Sports Authority of India, Mumbai.
 
 However, she couldn’t manage to get a job. “I applied many times but got no response. Women wrestlers never enjoyed the same benefits,” she says.
 
 At 21, she had an arranged marriage with a family friend and engineer Nandkishor Mehere, shifted to Akola and took a break from wrestling. “How can our daughter-in-law play in short training tights?”, was the question she faced.
 
 Soon after her wedding, she went to watch the Maharashtra Kesari championship. On seeing other participants checking their weight, she couldn’t help but enrolled herself, without telling anyone. “It was a three-day tournament but I won gold on the second day itself,” she says.
 
 With time, Sunita managed to convince her husband and in-laws to let her play. A year after she delivered her first boy, she again took to wrestling. “I would get up at 4am before my son and practice yoga to regain my lost stamina,” she recalls.
 
 Both her kids were born after caesarean section. “My son was two when he saw me fighting for the first time. I lost in the first round and during the break, he told me ‘Mumma fight like the WWF player we saw on TV.’ It was the same feeling when papa would push me,” she says.
 
 Today, Sunita is mother of 14-year-old Tanuj and 7-year-old Deveshri. Since the last eight years, she is coaching girls of Wardha, Deoli, Hinganghat and other nearby villages.
 
 Her youngest student is Deveshri, the soon-to-be family’s third-generation wrestler. “We hope she achieves what papa and I couldn’t,” says Sunita.
 
 
