By Rahi Gaikwad

 There is a reason why parents crying hoarse about exorbitant and   in private schools have been going around in circles. Admitting to a limited role for the state,   confessed that the   had   affiliated to central boards."The State government has very little power to punish schools, especially since these complaints have been received against  ," Tawde told Mirror on Tuesday.
 
 Parents of Private Schools of Maharashtra (POPSOM) is demanding that the state government examine and approve fee hikes by school managements, instead of putting the responsibility on the Parent Teacher Associations (PTA).
 
 Tawde refused to grant an audience to members of POPSOM who went to meet him on Tuesday at the Mantralaya and accused associations of mobilizing parents for their own agendas.
 
 "I met the representatives. I told them to give me a list of schools. Ag grieved parents can meet me directly.Some schools have complained that some of these organisations are just gathering parents for their own interests," the minister said.
 
 Meanwhile, miffed parents created a ruckus in front of the state secretariat. As tempers ran high, a few of the POPSOM members got into a heated exchange with a staff member at Tawde's office over the minister's "refusal" to give time to parents' woes.
 
 Angry parents are now demanding Tawde's resignation. A section of them have even creating a petition on the online portal change.org to that effect. "If he does not have time to listen to parents, then he had better resign," said Lata Nair of the Mumbai-based PTA United Forum.
 
 "Education is a fundamental right and it should be handled by the government," said Rajashree Natu, another member of the Forum.
 
 About 15 parents came to Mantralaya from other districts as well but had to return without voicing their concerns to the minister. Parents said Tawde was washing his hands off the issue.
 
 "One and a half years ago we gave him a list of 40 schools violating the fee regulation act but no action was taken against them," POPSOM member Anubha Sahai said.
 
