DEHRADUN: After a joint operation, which continued overnight, the state authorities and the   (BRO) opened the   national highway for light-motor vehicles (four wheelers) on Saturday evening.
 
  A   at Hathi Parvat, near Vishnuprayag, in Chamoli district on Friday afternoon had left thousands of pilgrims stuck at different places of the hill district. However, on Saturday morning, more than 2,800 people crossed the slide zone using an alternative pedestrian route, which is around 2-km from the affected area.
  
  Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik said efforts were underway to open the route for heavy vehicles also from Sunday.
  
  Meanwhile, Chamoli police have established a mess at Joshimath police station and distributing free food packets to pilgrims who got stranded and were accommodated in gurdwaras, hotels, lodges and guesthouses in Joshimath, Govindghat and Pandukeshwar. Chamoli superintendent of police (SP) Tripti Bhatt told TOI that a special mess had been set up to serve the people in distress.
  
  Even the Army had established a temporary camp with basic amenities for the pilgrims.
  
  Divulging details, Chamoli district magistrate Ashish Joshi told TOI, “Despite adverse weather conditions, BRO personnel worked tirelessly to open the blocked highway at Vishnuprayag for small vehicles. The movement of heavy vehicles will be resumed by Sunday.”
  
  Joshi further said on Saturday, they would allow movement of only those vehicles which were going down from Badrinath to Joshimath, while vehicles going to the shrine would start plying from Sunday morning.
  
  BRO pressed into service three pokland, one earthmover machines and two compressors for opening the road. Besides, BRO used explosives to blast big boulders that had rolled down to the road from the mountain.
  
  Police helped as many as 3,000 pilgrims crossed the slide zone from both directions on foot on Saturday morning, and the pilgrims boarded especially-arranged vehicles to Badrinath and Joshimath. “The administration has arranged around 25 vehicles, which are shifting large number of pilgrims to their destinations,” said Kaushik.
  
  “Besides, district administration and police are distributing food, water and other necessary items among pilgrims staying in makeshift shelters. About 8,000 people have been given free food by Saturday afternoon,” said Kaushik.
  Meanwhile, many stranded pilgrims have resumed their journey to shrines while many others, who are having their own vehicle, are waiting for the clearance from the administration to start their onward journey.
  
  The government has also launched tourist helpline numbers — 1070, 0135-2710334, 01372-251437 and 1077 — for Char Dham pilgrimage. Besides, special desk arrangements have been made at Rishikesh, Haridwar and Dehradun railway stations for the convenience of pilgrims.
