PUNE: Getting aboard a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Private Limited bus near Baner Pashan   is a rare experience because just a few ply on the route.

 The residents, fed up of being fleeced by autorickshaw drivers, are left with no option but to use their own vehicles for commuting. Expecting a respite from the situation, they have urged the transport body to improve the service and frequency of buses in the area.
 
 With over 53 residential complexes, Baner Pashan Link Road and the adjoining zones are home to around 10,000 citizens. The residents include software professionals, young working couples, students and even senior citizens. Yet, only a handful of buses operate connecting the area to Deccan, Katraj, railway station and Market Yard. None ply on the Link Road. As a result, many are forced to walk long distances, haggle with auto drivers or book taxis even for shorter trips.
 
 Sumita Sinha, a resident of   on the Link Road, said, “Hardly any buses ply in our area. People like my househelp don’t drive. They have to commute in the heavily-polluting shared autos or get their relatives to drop them for work. We are left helpless when auto drivers charge extra, especially for a return trip to the area.”
 
 The   buses are not only fewer but also unreliable, said Shantanu Roy of  . “We have repeatedly raised the issue with the area corporator. The smaller buses could be used as feeders to drop people at Kothrud depot, from where buses for all routes are available,” he said.
 
 Gauri Joshi, who runs a school in the area, said, “Most of my staffers walk several kilometres to reach the school. The people seeking admission say lack of a reliable bus service is a disadvantage for my institution. I am a resident of Sarasbaug and have never faced such a problem there. I wonder why this area has been left out.”
 
 While several residents shared their feedback with PMPML as a part of an ongoing survey of the transport company, there has hardly been any update. 
 
 Anant Waghmare, the director (operations) of PMPML, said feasibility was the primary criteria for starting new routes. “We would need to conduct a survey to understand the demand. Pashan, Sus and Link Road are high-profile areas where people generally do not prefer buses. We have to see our profitability also,” he said.
 
