Here's a look at the major talking points from the third and final T20I between India and England in Bengaluru on Wednesday.

 
 
  had a mix start as England began their chase. He conceded a six off his first delivery but then dismissed Sam Billings for a first-ball duck two balls later. Next ball, he was the only culprit, missing out on an easy run out chance. He bowled one more over after that and was taken off the attack after a two-over spell. When England were on a roll, he returned to the attack in the 14th over and ended up taking five wickets in 12 balls. England lost last 8 wickets for 8 runs as Chahal finished with 6/25 surpassing R Ashwin's record (4/8) for the best figures by an Indian bowler in T20Is.
 
 
 
 KL Rahul went for a wild swing, aiming for a biggie off Ben Stokes in the 8th over. The ball was low, escaped his bat and crashed on the stumps. Rahul was castled. A pretty regulation dismissal. But later on, replay showed Stokes had overstepped meaning if the on-field umpire had check for the no ball, a common practice nowadays, Rahul would have been given not out. India coach Anil Kumble and Rahul could be seen shaking their heads in disappointment after watching the replays. Not howlers of the kind in Nagpur but certainly an error that could have easily been avoided.
 
 
 
 Although   was off to a tentative start, he eventually got into his groove and started punishing England bowlers. Bangalore's Chinnaswamy Stadium is notorious for its short boundaries and Raina made full use of that hitting five sixes - three of them within the Powerplay overs. With a slogsweep over midwicket region for six, Raina recorded his first T20I half-century in seven years - the last came against Zimbabwe in 2010 when he was the captain. It was his fourth overall and he was out after scoring 63 off 45 balls.
 
 
 
 It took MS Dhoni a little over 10 years to record a maiden half-century in T20Is. His previous highest score was 48 not out vs Australia in Sydney. He was promoted ahead of   at no 4 and then before being dismissed in the last over, clattered five fours and two sixes to score his first T20I fifty in his 76th appearance for India. 
 
 
 
 Twice India ended up committing glaring fielding errors - both costing them a wicket each. Yuzvendra Chahal was the culprit on the first occasion as he missed an easy run out opportunity that even angered an otherwise coolheaded Dhoni. As Joe Root mistimed a shot, his partner Jason Roy sprinted forward for a quick single. Root refused and immediately sent him back but he was already halfway through. The throw was directed to Chahal who, in a rush of blood moment, ended up firing the ball towards Dhoni at the striker's end when all he needed was to turn and flick the bails. The second came in the 13th over when Root sliced one from   to short third man Yuvraj Singh. But as he lined up for the catch, Pant came running from point and a collision ensued. The result, Yuvraj dropped a dolly and Root survived. 
 
 
 
 At 19 year and 120 days, Delhi's big hitting wicketkeeper-batsman   has become the youngest Indian to play a T20I. He surpassed   (at 19 years 152 days) who previously held the record. Incidentally, Ishant also made his debut on the same day as Pant on February 1 (2008). Overall, Hong Kong's Waqas Khan is the youngest player to appear in a T20I at 15 years and 259 days.
 
