NEW DELHI: In a reversal of stand, the aviation authorities have now proposed to hike the notice period of airline commanders from six months to a year.   Ashok Gajapathi Raju had last year rejected airlines’ demand to double the notice period of pilots but now the   ( ) has come out with a draft civil aviation requirement (CAR) that proposes to do so for captains.

 “It has been decided by the government that any act on the part of pilots including resignation from the airlines without a minimum notice period of one year in respect of commanders and six months in respect of co- pilots, which may result into last minute cancellation of flights and harassment to passengers, would be treated as an act against the public interest,” the draft CAR says.
 
 “During the notice period, neither the pilot shall refuse to undertake the flight duties assigned to him nor shall the employer deprive the pilot of his legitimate rights and privileges with respect to the assignment of his duties. Failure to comply with the provisions of the CAR may lead to action against the pilot,” it says.
 
 Some ‘old’ airlines facing poaching of pilots from Gulf and new Indian carriers have been demanding that notice period of pilots be raised to a year. Airlines like Air India and IndiGo have faced ‘poaching’ of their pilots. 
 
 However, the view in the aviation ministry and DGCA till recently was that notice period was an issue between the employer (airlines) and employees (airlines) in which they should not interfere. However, that has changed now.
 
 “It has been observed that pilots are resigning without providing any notice to the airlines. In some cases, even groups of pilots resign together without notice and as a result airlines are forced to cancel their flights at the last minute. Such resignation by the pilots and the resultant cancellation of flights causes inconvenience and harassment to the passengers. Sometimes such an abrupt action on the part of the pilots is in the form of a concerted move, which is tantamount to holding the airline to ransom and leaving the travelling public stranded. This is a highly undesirable practice and goes against the public interest,” the draft says.
 
 “Such an action on the part of pilots attracts” punishment including debarring them from “permanently or temporarily from holding any licence or rating… if in its opinion it is necessary to do so in the public interest.”
 
 “It takes about eight to nine months to train a pilot to operate an aircraft used for airline operations… Even after this training, the pilot can operate only as a co-pilot. To operate an aircraft as Pilot-in-Command (PIC), he needs to gain experience and undertake skill test to fly as PIC of an aircraft, which may take another four months or so. Therefore, it would take more than four months for an airline to replace a trained Pilot-in-Command. Pilots are highly skilled personnel and shoulder complete responsibility of the aircraft and the passengers. They are highly paid for the responsibility they share with the airlines towards the travelling public and are required to act with extreme responsibility,” the draft CAR issued by DGCA chief B S Bhullar says.
 
 Stakeholders can send suggestions on the draft CAR and the government may incorporate those views while issuing the final rule. However, the draft indicates that the DGCA wants to double the notice period for commanders.
 
 
