PUNE: Close contest looks imminent in the   with all major political parties still firm on going solo.

 The pre-poll alliance talks have not progressed much. Insiders in most parties in the city said the common feeling among their respective workers was not to join hands with other parties.
 
 The BJP, is expecting big gains in the elections, has kept the option to go with the   open. But the latter has not shown inclination towards forming an alliance.
 
 The   has left the decision to the party “high command”, while the NCP — in power in the   (PMC) for the past two terms — has said the party is “strong enough” to go alone if the Congress is not interested to join hands.
 
 A BJP corporator said the party workers were already sensing victory. “We have an MP in Parliament and eight MLAs in the Assembly. There is a complete dominance of the BJP in the city for past two years. Many existing corporators from other parties are joining the party. In this situation, the party workers do not feel there is a need to join hands with any other party,” the corporator said.
 
 BJP’s city unit president Yogesh Gogawale, however, said the option of pre-poll alliance with the Sena was still open. “We have stretched our hands for alliance. It is up to the Sena to take a further call. If it does not come along, we shall be happy to go alone,” Gogawale said.
 
 Sena leaders said the BJP’s stand was always suspicious. “There is no plan to join hands with the BJP. The party has not taken us into confidence. Its recent move of demonetisation has failed and has led to hardships for common people,” said Vinayak Nimhan, the city unit chief of Sena.
 
 The civic polls are expected in the last week of February. Parties have started poll preparations after announcing their agenda for the city and conducting interviews of aspirants. As many as 144 corporators will represent the city in the civic body from 41 panels.
 
 For ruling NCP, this is supposed to be a tough election. NCP leader and former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at a recent function in the city had clarified that his party was “strong enough” to go solo. “The NCP has decided to go ahead with like-minded parties in the elections of self-governing bodies. If the Congress is not interested in joining hands, we shall not force it,” Pawar had said, hinting at going solo.
 
 Ramesh Bagwe, the city unit chief of the Congress, accused the NCP of being “closer” to the BJP and said the Congress workers were not ready to go with it. “We shall convey their sentiment to the high command,” Bagwe said.
 
 MNS leaders said there was no plan for pre-poll alliance because the party had its own agenda for the city’s development.
 
 
