Bhopal:   handlers of their Indian spies are well versed to beat demonetization blues. Post demonetization when high denomination notes were short in supply with a cap on withdrawals from banks, the handlers had advised local conduits to open several small shops and show income.

 When Balram Singh, one of the 11 suspects of espionage ring arrested on Thursday by MP cops, expressed difficulty in money supply due to invalidation of high denomination demonetisation, his Pakistan handler was heard advising – “Tu chhoti chhoti dukan kolna shuru kar de or wahan se income show kar dena” (start opening small shops and show income from there).
 
 In the last two months multiple security agencies had intercepted calls between Balram Singh and his Pakistani handler, and in one of the conversation the latter was heard advising methods to manage funds and dodge income tax enquiries.
 
 “Aree yehan notebandi kay baad se halat kharab hain ….(scene after demonetisation is not good here)” Balram was heard telling to person in Pakistan over phone while discussing transaction of money in bank accounts. It was then that he was advised at length about fund management which including investing in small shops. This was confirmed to TOI by the Jammu-based police officer, who was part of the investigation and sources in the MPATS.
 
 Balram Singh, 26 – resident of Suhash Village in Satna district of Madhya Pradesh became part of the cross-border lottery fraud two years ago and was apparently used by Pakistan handlers to transfer money to their ‘moles’ in India, said sources.
 
 His named had cropped up during investigations into monetary transactions of two alleged ISI ‘spies’ Satvinder Singh alias Bittu and Dadu alias Lucky were caught by security agencies from Jammu last November. Investigations revealed they were providing security-related information to Pakistan through Whatsapp groups. 
 
 During the investigation, police came to know that they were collecting secret information regarding the “locations of army, police and other security forces.” The money they got in return for the service was deposited in their bank accounts.
 
 When the bank transactions were investigated, it was found that cash was deposited in Satvinder’s bank account from Satna district in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 “And when the deposit slip in Satna was collected, handwriting on it matched with that of Balram. He was kept under constant monitoring by central intelligence and MPATS since then,” – said an investigating officer. Balram had deposited payments ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 in three or four instalments after being asked by someone in Pakistan. 
 
 Balram confessed to have deposited the money. He said he had never met Satvinder. “He was given a bank account and asked to deposit cash. The money Balram deposited in accounts was given to him from Pakistan through a well-knitted Hawala racket,” said the officer.
 
 Balram was a school dropout living in a rented house in Satna town for the last three years. His father owns 18 acres of land and was unwary of Balram’s conduct and source of income behind his lavish lifestyle.
 
 Police said Balram had also travelled to Dubai in search of job a few years ago. He is presently on remand with MPATS for next seven days.
 
 
