MHAISAL(SANGLI DISTRICT): Close on the heels of the arrest of homeopath   for allegedly conducting illegal abortions here, another doctor, also a homeopath, is facing an inquiry by the state health officials for allegedly running an   in the same village. The police are probing the possibility of any link between this homeopath and Khidrapure. 

 State health officials said the second doctor, T A Chaugule, who holds a   (DHMS), had not registered his nursing home with the local helath authorities. “We have issued him a show-cause notice as he was running the nursing home without seeking valid registration under the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act. He was providing services of other specialists and was even performing surgeries,” said Archana Patil, additional director, state family welfare bureau, state  . The show-cause notice has been pasted on one of the hospital walls.
 
 The health officials conducted a probe and recovered an imaging machine which was found concealed in a pile of animal fodder at Chaugule’s farm in the village on Tuesday afternoon. Taluka health office V P Sawant, who seized the machine, said, “We came to know about the machine from a police constable who had gathered inputs from local people. It is a new machine, which is perhaps assembled as it does not carry any company’s name. He has not registered the machine with us.”
 
 When TOI asked Chaugule about the machine, he said, “It is an old machine which I wanted to scrap. Since it was unnecessarily occupying place in the nursing home, I shifted it to my farm.”
 
 Officials, however, were not ready to buy Chaugule’s stand. “It is a new, functional machine which, as per our knowledge, can detect fetal movement. We have sought an expert opinion on the utility of the machine in sex determination,” Sawant said.
 
 Sangli deputy superintendent of police Dattatreya Shinde told TOI, “We are probing whether Khidrapure and Chaugule were hand-in-glove in any illegal activity, including female feticide. If required, we will question Chaugule.”
 
