KOLHAPUR: The events in the Shivotsav-2017, the inter-university youth festival, started from Saturday at the  , Kolhapur (SUK) campus. However Sunday saw the campus full of visitors from the nearby colleges, perfect for the audience of the festival.

 On Sunday, the events such as installation, cartooning, and debate competitions were conducted at different venues.
 
 According to the university officials, in the installation competition, the participants were given scrap items from which they had to create an artistic figure on the theme of My dream. In this event teams from Raipur, Rajasthan, Solapur, Karnataka and Tamilnadu among others participated.
 
 While in the afternoon session, cartooning competition on cashless India theme was conducted. In the evening session mime and classical vocal competitions too were organised.
 
 Monday is the last day of the events, while on Tuesday the results will be declared for the said events.
 
 The event was formally inaugurated on Friday in presence of Marathi film actor Sachin Khedekar, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj and various other dignitaries from the SUK. According to SUK officials, as many as 26 events are underway at the campus at present for which the participation over 80 teams has been registered. 
 
 Lecture at varsity
 
 The deputy super-intendant of the Police Satish Mane will be at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) on Thursday, February 16 said a university circular. He will offer guidance to the students appearing for the competitive exams. For the lecture, acting vice-chancellor D R More, too will be present.
 
 According to the varsity officials, the centre gets the financial aid from the   ( ) for its functioning, which helps in coaching for civil services exams like the UPSC and MPSC along with banking and other competitive examinations.
 
 The official added that the centre facilitates experts lectures; coaching, personality development and skill enhancement, along with communication skills for the students.
 
 Workshop on awareness on Visaka guidelines conducted
 
 The Maharashtra state commission for women had conducted a one-day workshop on the awareness on the Visaka guidelines, which is a set of guidelines in case of sexual harassment cases, on February 7 at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) campus.
 
 Manjusha Molawane, deputy secretary Maharashtra state commission for women was present for the workshop, which was mandatory for the principals and faculty members in the affiliated colleges.
 
 According to a university official, The sexual harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, prohibition, redressal) act which came into existence in the year 2013, every college, whether new or old, should have a working, functional, and active internal complaints committee on sexual harassment issue.
 
