VIJAYAWADA/HYDERABAD: A severe heat wave swept through the districts of coastal Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday , with some pockets recording the hottest days this season.Guntur and  , in particular, were left blazing with mercury levels soaring to a phenomenally high 47 and 46.2 degree Celsius, respectively , during the day ­ the highest so far. Hyderabad recorded a higher temperature of 42.4 degrees.

 Bapatla, Ongole and   too witnessed severe heat wave-like conditions as day-time temperatures hit a sweltering 43 degree Celsius.   said this heat wave condition is likely to continue on Wednesday owing to a rise in temperature. “ A very low intensity pressure system is acting over coastal Andhra Pradesh belt causing hot and dry winds from the north-west to flow towards the plain regions of coastal AP . As there is no cloud cover, the heat is reaching the ground directly causing the ground to heat up quickly , creating heat wave like conditions,“ explained Y K   , director (incharge) of IMD, adding that the severity of the weather will see a drop in this region, Thursday onwards.
 
 Even as the coasts scor ched under the intense temperatures, the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad too recorded a higher temperature on Tuesday at 42.4 degree Celsius. The city had received the much-nee ded relief with the mercury dropping a few notches following a hail storm last week.The city had recorded a 10year high on April 18, when the temperatures soared to 43 degree Celsius.
 
 IMD officials said that the city could be in for a spell of rain soon. While private weather forecasting outfits like   also made a similar prediction they were cautious to add that the intensity of rains would be isolated and scant in nature.This would eventually increase the humidity levels in the city , causing much discomfort.
 
 Temperatures across the   districts too stayed above the 40 degree Celsius mark -at least 2 to 4 degree Celsius above normal.
 
 Weathermen said that light to moderate showers accompanied by thunderstorms are expected to add some cloud cover to the region in the days to come.
 
