MUMBAI:   on Tuesday said the telecom sector is in “ICCU“ with government and lenders most at risk, and warned of a monopolistic market emerging.
He also promised to get   out of its difficulties by March 2018, saying its lenders are supportive of all its actions.
 
 With the entry of his elder brother Mukesh Ambani-promoted   wrecking the already competitive market, Anil Ambani said we are “potentially“ moving towards a market with limited competition and feared that it may turn into a “monopoly“.
 
 “The wireless or mobility sector, from any dimension you look at, is in the ICCU. It is not in the general ward, it is not in the ICU, it is in the ICCU,“ Ambani said at  ' (RCOM) annual general meeting here.
 
 “It is a systemic threat for government, for its revenues, it's a systemic threat for our banking sector and it is what I call creative destruction of a sector,“ he said. Noting that over the years as the number of operators coming to six from over over a dozen, he said there was a sharp erosion in competitive landscape where nearly all global companies who were here have exited.
 
 “I am sure they see things that allow them to write-off large amounts of money and exit India. It cannot be the power of the market that is forcing them to leave but it has got to be from other dimensions of the sector which is forcing them to leave,“ he said.
 
 Ambani said fresh lending to the sector has completely halted after  's caution to banks in April and wondered how can the oncesunshine sector maintain service quality as it requires Rs 1 trillion in investments annually . Warning that the industry is heading towards a monopolistic situation, he said “If customer is supreme and consumer is king, can we afford to be an oligopoly, a duapoly or a monopoly?“ Ambani claimed that RCOM, which has a debt of Rs 45,000 crore and has been given a moratorium till this December, has the support of all its lenders including the Chinese ones and promised to get the company back.
 
 “All I can assure you today is that we have multiple options in front of us, we have got plans, we are in discussions with all our lenders, all our lenders are fully supportive and we will find appropriate solutions in the course of this financial year or earlier,“ he said. He did not offer the specifics of the plan or on the way forward for impending deals like merging with  .
 
