LUDHIANA: After receiving a drubbing along with their alliance partner Shiromani Akali Dal(SAD) from the Congress in the recently assembly elections, voices for breaking alliance with the former are becoming louder in the BJP. 

 In a meeting held by the Ludhiana district unit, BJP councillors and workers have raised the demand to break alliance with the SAD in the upcoming elections of the municipal corporations and councils. The meeting was called by the BJP leaders of the district unit for introspection of the reasons behind party’s defeat in the recently held assembly elections. The party had performed badly in the state and in the city as well with all three BJP candidates losing their seats. 
 
 It is learnt in the internal meeting, the party workers and the MC councillors put forth their demand with district BJP president  , who assured them of raising the issue with the party high command. The workers claimed that it was due to their alliance with the Akalis that they lost elections as in other states like Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttrakhand and  , the saffron party has performed well. 
 
 One of the BJP councillors, on the condition of anonymity, said when they were asked about the reasons behind party’s defeat in the assembly elections, most of the participants blamed alliance between the Akali Dal and BJP.
 
 Some other members also mentioned that with MC elections approaching, they have already begun preparations so the party high command should take decision at the earliest in this regard. They added that the high command should consider their request to part ways with the SAD in the state. 
 
 “We had raised this demand before assembly elections as well but it was ignored and the party had to pay the price.”
 
 Meanwhile, Arora confirmed that the demand was raised by most of the party workers and councillors and he has informed the high command about the same. He added that the party high command was expected to take a decision in this regard. 
 
 However Akali councillor and spokesperson of Youth Akali Dal   said that the final decision was to be taken by high commands of both parties and not the local leaders. “Earlier too some BJP leaders had raised similar demand, but it was not accepted,” he added.
 
