
A 17-year-old   between two families in   has turned out to be the cause for two children almost losing their lives in Raichur district. A bomb was placed and exploded in one of the rivals’ homes, injuring two children. The incident, sources say, is a ‘punishment’ for old vengeance that had already died a natural death some years ago. 
 
 Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district on Monday witnessed a ‘Nada Bomb’ exploding near Basavarajeshwari Camp, where the two children were playing. The injured children have been identified as Gairangu Bidan, 12, and Biswajit Sandeep Mandal, 10, residents of BR Camp.
 
 The place where the bomb exploded belongs to one Ramesh Reddy, and soil had been dug up there to lay the foundation for a pillar of a structure. The children, who were playing there, noticed a bundle of threads. When they tried to open it, the bomb exploded.
 
 While all the residents in Sindhanur taluk and the police department were shocked as a result, Ramesh Reddy clearly recalled his old days of political rivalry in the area. Ramesh said the bomb had actually been placed underneath the soil 17 years ago.
 
 The story of political rivalry between Ramesh Reddy, Shivarama Reddy and Naga Reddy on the one hand, and Shrikanth Reddy on the other, is evidenced by the bomb that was placed many years ago.
 
 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, Sindhanur Rural Police said, “The story begins from the year 2000. Ramesh Reddy’s uncles Shivarama Reddy and Naga Reddy were bete noirs of Shrikanth Reddy, who wanted to kill them. In 2000, Shrikanth Reddy was jailed in a case in Raichur. When he completed his jail term of five years and was being escorted out by the police, Naga Reddy planted Nada bombs near the police escort. Shrikanth, who was lucky, escaped the blast with minor injuries.”
 
 However, the fire of revenge was still alive as Shrikanth Reddy wanted to avenge the attempt-to-murder. Shrikanth Reddy then killed Naga and Shivarama Reddy in 2006 in retaliation to the bomb blast.
 
 Shrikanth Reddy then feared that Ramesh Reddy would avenge his uncles’ deaths. But Ramesh Reddy had moved on by giving up feelings of vengeance and had re-programmed his daily life, shunning violence. Ramesh Reddy had purchased a parcel of land from Naga Reddy, next to his land on which he wished to construct a house. But Ramesh Reddy was unaware that beneath the soil lay a bomb buried by Naga Reddy.
 
 Naga Reddy had buried two Nada bombs in his land after he failed to kill Shrikanth Reddy in 2000. After the death of Naga and Shivarama Reddy, Ramesh Reddy
 had taken over their land, but did not dispose of the bombs properly.
 
 The Sindhanur Police have registered a complaint against Ramesh Reddy for negligence. The police said Ramesh Reddy was arrested on Monday and has been remanded in judicial custody.
 
