HYDERABAD: The water level in Almatti, the first major dam across the Krishna river in Karnataka, has been increasing sharply rekindling hopes of   and parts of Telangana of a good Kharif season.

 The   received more than one lakh cusecs of inflows in the last two days adding 27 TMC ft water to the reservoir. The reservoir at present has 79 TMC ft against the full capacity of 129.72 TMC ft.As the water level touched 1,694 feet against the full level of 1,704 ft, Almatti dam authorities have started releasing water downstream to Narayanpur dam. 
 
 On Sunday , about 35,000 cusecs of water was released into Narayanpur which also has started receiving heavy inflows.   in the upstre am of the river Krishna in the last few days has resulted in sharp increase in the inflows into Almatti.   in Karnataka and Maharashtra have improved inflows into Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers. On Sunday , Tungabhadra received 51,251 cusecs of flood water from upstream.
 
  With heavy rains occurring in the catchment of the Krishna on Sunday too, the first spell of inflows this monsoon are likely to reach   in Telangana in 10 days. Irrigation officials of AP and Telangana expect that the inflows would continue for some more days and Almatti would be filled to its brim by the end of this month.
 
 Both Telangana and AP have been demanding early release of water from Almatti. “The success of Kharif season depends on early arrival of Krishna water into these dams. We expect fresh inflows in a week or two,“ said a senior official in the Telangana irrigation department. As per their estimate, it takes at least 20 days for Telangana to get water from Nagarjuana Sagar as filling of Narayanpur, Jurala and Srisailam will take time.
 
 As both Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar dams have reached the rock bottom, it will take more time this year for them to fill. Both reservoirs have capacity to store 530 TMC feet water and drought-hit Mahbubnagar, Kurnool, Nalgonda, Khammam, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts in both the states depend on the these two reservoirs for irrigation and drinking water needs.
 
