NAGPUR: Rehabilitating victims of sex crimes was the crux of   training team workshop held at   on Tuesday. Over 300 individuals from medical fraternity, police department and various NGOs in the city participated in the workshop in which experts shared important information about medical and legal aid, counselling and rehabilitation of rape and child abuse victims.

 The programme was organized by the state government’s women and child development department. The workshop was inaugurated by district collector Sachin Kurve. Superintendent of police Parbhani Anant Rokde, secretary of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) Kunal Jadhav, president of Bal Nyay Mandal NM Bedarkar, district civil surgeon UB Navade, district health officer   and president of   presided over during the inaugural function.
 
 In his address, Kurve said, “It is crucial to handle abuse cases emotionally, individually or as a team. Everyone should be aware of their role and make an effort to spread awareness about the scheme.”
 
 Rokde said, “Survivors of rape and sexual crimes are subjected to immense mental trauma due to which they lose confidence. Therefore, it is important to counsel them properly and help them come out of it and lead a normal life.”
 
 Jadhav said Manodhairya Yojana is important for women empowerment. However, proper implementation of the scheme is the need of the hour. Creating awareness about legal services pertaining to the matter is important, said Jadhav.
 
 The workshop will discuss implementation of the scheme. Functioning of district trauma team and the role of various authorities will be discussed as well.
 
 The scheme was introduced in 2013 by the state government in which child abuse, acid attack and rape victims will be given compensation ranging between Rs2 lakh and Rs3 lakh for recovery. The compensation amount is decided by the   under the supervision of district collector. The board consists of superintendent of police (rural), health authorities and representatives of NGOs. 
 
 
