Coimbatore: The Centre would bring new bills on wages and industrial relations in the next session of the Parliament, union minister of state for labour and employment, Bandaru Dattatreya, has said. The ‘code on wages and the code on industrial relations’ is among the four labour codes the government is introducing to replace 44 labour laws in its bid to improve the ease of doing business in the country.

 “The tripartite consultationsare over. The inter-ministerial group is discussing it now. Then it will go to the cabinet,” Dattatreya said on the sidelines of an interaction organised by the Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA) here on Friday.
 
 “It will be a win-win situation for workers and employees,” he said. The code on social security and the code on safety, health and working conditions for workers would also be introduced, Dattatreya stated.
 
 The existing labour laws are being amalgamated into four codes to make things simple, the minister said. The move will save efforts, cost and lessen the compliance burden of various establishments, he stated.
 
 The government has also replaced 56 registers/forms prescribed under the rules of nine central acts with five common registers. “Such an act has reduced the number of data fields in five registers to 144 from the existing 933 fields in 56 registers,” Dattatreya stated.
 
 The ministry is also developing a software for the five common registers, he said. The software will be put on the ‘Shram Suvidha’ portal of the ministry for free download with an aim to facilitate maintenance of those registers in a digitised form.
 
 All provident fund (PF) subscribers would be provided with a universal account number (UAN) by the end of March, Dattatreya said. About 2.1 crore out of the 4.8 crore PF subscribers have been given UAN, he informed.
 
 Those employing more than 50 workers have been provided labour identity numbers (LINs) and everything has been made online, he said. Since the UAN is being linked with Aadhaar and bank accounts, workers would be able to access fund and services wherever they go, he said. This would address the problems faced by migrant workers who are being employed in large numbers now, Dattatreya said. 
 
 “There will be no inspector raj. Everything will be transparent,” the minister said. The claims by EPFO (Employees’ PF Office) is being settled in three days, he stated. The claims settlements ratio stood at 98%, he informed.
 
 
