HYDERABAD: Working mothers in the city’s IT hub have reasons to cheer. They can now look forward to better maternity benefits at the workplace, thanks to the recently-approved   granting paid maternity leave of 26 weeks to women working in the organised sector.

 With provisions such as setting up crèche facilities in any establishment with 50 or more employees and work from home benefits for women if the nature of their work allows it, the Bill has come as a huge relief for women in the city. Earlier, the trend of giving up lucrative jobs to take a break from careers after pregnancy was common. This may slowly wane, say women.
 
 The Bill would have been a huge help for Archana Polkam, who gave up a well-paying job at an   to take care of her child. “I had to ask for an extension of my maternity leave from three months to seven. I tried to continue working even after my maternity leave by employing caretakers and approaching daycare centres to look after my infant. But I soon realized that I was not paying enough attention to either my child or my work,” said Polkam, who after months of juggling her roles as a mother and team leader decided to quit in October 2015. “Had such a Bill existed then, I could have continued my career without being forced to take a break. I am now hunting for jobs in the IT sector again,” she said.
 
 When   contacted HR professionals, they confirmed that most women IT professionals extend their   and are often unable to transition back to work easily. 
 
 “Most women extend their maternity leaves by a few months and this is why the Bill comes in handy. The company often expects women to meet deadlines and attend to clients within two weeks of returning to work. This is difficult for a new mother, especially working in the IT services industry, considering the additional responsibilities,” said Pallavi S, an HR professional in an IT firm.
 
 While most IT firms in the city are yet to announce the extension of maternity leave periods, a few companies have already done so.
 
 “This new maternity leave policy will enable mothers to spend additional time with their babies and be able to transition back to work effectively. It is another step to provide good working environment supported by policies for our women employees and enable them to continue their leadership journey with the company,” said  , director, human resources of pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly & Company India.
 
