Veteran cricketer   has set a new example when he politely declined an honorary D.Lit. by the Bengaluru University for his outstanding contribution in the field of sports, particularly cricket. Dravid’s contention was that he will undertake some real research and then knock at the doors of the University either for Ph.D. or D.Litt. 

 Nearer home, one sees a competition among   in Maharashtra, particularly the deemed universities, to award honorary D.Litts to politicians and social workers. Former president Pratibhatai Patil, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and former union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde are among the more than dozen politicians, who have been conferred with honorary degrees. Significantly, governors in the state have never asked the heads of these deemed universities to refrain from conferring honorary degrees. Interestingly, in Maharashtra, most of the deemed universities are controlled by leading politicians.
 
 
 
 
 A recent notice issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya says high-ranking bureaucrats have ignored earlier notices served by the NHRC regarding the deaths of   girls in state-run ashram schools. When a section of the media reported that in the past decade, 500 tribal girls died in these institutions, NHRC took suo motu cognizance and asked Kshatriya to submit an explanation within six weeks. In   district, it was found that tribal girls were sexually abused by teachers and an employee of the school. Following an uproar in the media and alarm raised by BJP leader Eknath Khadse, a case was registered against erring officer bearers of the school. Significantly, in September 2016, when it was reported that a large number of students have died during the last 10 years of various causes, the NHRC had, on October 10, 2016 issued a notice to the state seeking specific information on causes of death. As there was no response from the tribal development department, NHRC sent a reminder on November 26, 2016. Surprisingly, even for the reminder there was no response, following which the NHRC has now issued a show cause notice to the chief secretary. It was found that most of the 1,100 schools for tribal children and 282 schools for children of nomadic tribes are in a shabby or decrepit condition owing to rampant corruption, irregularities and resource crunch. Bureaucrats do not move out of their Mantralaya chambers and the directors are based in Pune. As a result, not even routine inspections are being carried out in these schools.
 
 
 
 
 Even if the controversial circular that said photographs of gods and goddesses in government departments should be removed in a time-bound period was withdrawn after the intervention of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and education minister Vinod Tawade, the whole episode established that sometimes a section officer in Mantralaya can shake up the system more than either the CM or the chief secretary. On January 4, a section officer in the rural development department led by BJP leader Pankaja Munde issued the circular. For a fortnight, no one took note of the circular; suddenly a hue and cry began over it. Apart from a specific assurance that it would be withdrawn, Tawde said that the circular was issued without the knowledge of the cabinet member or the secretary of the department and that it was issued by the officer at his personal level. Tawde also said that disciplinary action would be taken against the section officer for exceeding his brief. However, there were no takers for Tawde’s argument, since senior bureaucrats pointed out that even as per the rules of business, no circular can be issued without the knowledge of the secretary of the department and the cabinet member of the concerned department. In Mantralaya, a section officer is indeed a powerful official since each and every note is generated at the level of section officer and finally approved by the cabinet member or CM depending on the gravity of the subject. Says a former chief secretary, for obvious political reasons, the section officer was made a scape goat.
 
 
