PUNE: Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s December 2015 flick  , which portrayed the romance of Maratha general Bajirao and Bundelkhand princess Mastani at the   here, not only set the box office on fire but also contributed handsomely to the coffers of the   (ASI).

 While most of the top monuments in ASI’s Mumbai circle, including Mumbai’s  , saw a dip in the number of Indian tourists, the footfall at Shaniwarwada, the seat of the Peshwa rulers of the Maratha Empire until 1818, surged to over 12 lakh from 9-odd lakh in 2015. 
 
 Besides Elephanta Caves, monuments that lost their appeal among visitors included Lenyadri Caves, Karla Caves, Bhaja Caves and Raigad fort, among others. Only four ticketed monuments witnessed a rise in the footfall of Indian visitors in 2016, with the Peshwa citadel topping the charts.
 
 Elephanta Caves received over 26,000 Indian visitors in 2016, which was less than in 2015. But Shaniwarwada witnessed a spurt in domestic travellers with the number rising from 9.58 lakh in 2015 to 12.69 lakh in 2016 — a record increase by over 3 lakh.
 
 Experts largely attributed the monumental increase in visitors to Shaniwarwada to the epic film, Bajirao Mastani, released in December 2015, which prompted numerous Indians to explore the place.
 
 Heritage expert Sharvey Dhongde, who is also the co-convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Pune, told TOI that in 2016, INTACH’s heritage store at Shaniwarwada, Warsaa, saw a surge in inquiries from eager visitors wanting to know the location of ‘Aaina Mahal’ (hall of mirrors) at the Peshwa citadel. The hall of mirrors does not exist but was created in the film. “The film generated a lot of interest in the place. However, the actual site is a mere shadow of the grandeur of the wada that one sees in the film,” said Dhongde.
 
 A few years ago, Dhongde had actually accompanied Bhansali to Shaniwarwada as the director wanted to do a quick recce of the site for the film he had in his mind. “I asked him how he would recreate the history of Shaniwarwada. Bhansali said the film would be a ‘creative re-interpretation of history.’ The impact of the film has been such that a group of students from Delhi visiting the wada asked me if the statue of Bajirao there was that of Ranveer Singh,” said Dhongde.
 
 The 2015 film starred Ranveer Singh as Bajirao and Deepika Padukone as Mastani, Bajirao’s love interest, with Priyanka Chopra playing Bajirao’s first wife Kashibai.
 
 Conservation architect Kiran Kalamdani of Kimaya, the firm that was closely associated with the restoration of Shaniwarwada in the past, said, “The movie showed the grandeur of the citadel, which enticed many to do a reality check of the monument. Also, the controversy that emerged after the release of the film on how it fell short of portraying an authentic version of history intrigued people further to check the wada up close.”
 
 Kalamdani pointed out that since Shaniwarwada is more accessible than other monuments, it draws tourists aplenty. “It is bang in the middle of Pune city. Besides, none of the nine other monuments had a Bollywood flick made on them,” he said.
 
 B G Yelikar, conservation assistant, Pune sub-circle of ASI, said that apart from the Bollywood film, efforts on the part of the ASI have also yielded positive results. “The number of visitors to Shaniwarwada and   surged considerably in 2016. We have been trying to spread awareness among schoolchildren and college-goers about Pune’s monuments, including the introduction of free guided tours for students. This has generated a spurt in footfall to Shaniwarwada and other monuments in Pune,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, though the combined rise in Indian visitors to ASI’s 10 ticketed monuments in Mumbai circle was a marginal 7% in 2016 over 2015, the number of foreigners visiting these monuments in 2016 shot up exponentially — from a mere 55,806 in 2015 to over 3.78 lakh in 2016.
 
 While Indians flocked to Shaniwarwada, the highest number of foreigners were seen at Elephanta caves in 2016, followed by Shaniwarwada. Experts said the e-visa facility introduced in India has reduced substantial paperwork, resulting in an inflow of tourists to India.
 
