PATNA: Punjab chief minister   on Thursday showered praise on his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar for the grand arrangements made for the 350th Prakashotsava of Guru Gobind Singh. “I am 70 now and have seen many Prakashotsavas, but not like this one. The kind of dedication Nitish ji has shown in organizing this event is worth appreciating,” the Punjab CM said.

 Speaking at the Prakashotsava main event organized at   here, Badal said even he would not have been able to put so much efforts and made a magnificent arrangement like this. He also thanked Prime Minister  , who was present on the occasion, for attending all the events related to the Sikh community and lauded his  , saying even Guru Saheb asked his followers to keep the environment clean. 
 
 The Punjab CM did not miss the opportunity to woo his community members present in large numbers at the gathering and said, “Whenever our country needed sacrifice, Punjabis came forward in large numbers. Majority of the sacrifices during Independence were made by Punjabi community and 80% of Punjabis were given kala-pani punishment.” 
 
 With an eye on the upcoming assembly election in Punjab, Badal did not also leave the opportunity to criticize  . “Punjabis also came forward to crush the Emergency imposed in the country, which was like a second fight for the independence of our country,” he said. 
 
 In his speech, Badal also mentioned the development work done by the Punjab government, which included construction of   memorial at the cost of Rs300 crore. It has been built to commemorate the contributions and sacrifices made by the Punjabis during the Independence struggle. He also mentioned the Khalsa Heritage Centre built at Anandpur Sahib to commemorate the 500th year of Sikh history.
 
 Recalling the sacrifices and teachings of Guru Gobind Singh, Badal said he was a true votary of socialism, human rights and religious freedom and was against forcible religious conversions. He said the tenth Sikh Guru created   to empower the poor and the underprivileged people to fight injustice and tyranny.
 
 He also said Guru ji preached the lesson of oneness of God and love for humanity and urged people to follow it.
 
