KOLKATA:   expressed her surprise over the manner police have slapped charged on poet   for writing a poem. 

 In an interview with a   on Thursday, the CM said: "It is a political poem. I understand that Srijato has come under threat from the saffron camp. Someone has lodged a police complaint. Police have to investigate before slapping charges. I have asked for a report from the police. I can tell you Srijato will have no problem," the chief minister said.
 
 Mamata talked about a whole range issues from health to education and from Narada to Bhangar. 
 
  
 
 
  The CM said the state government's casting aspersions on the   judgment in the   was wrong. 
 
 "It was a foul play. We have removed the lawyer from the panel. He shouldn't have mentioned that the high court's judgment was biased," the CM said, adding that her government has already started a departmental inquiry against IPS SMH Meerza. 
 
 But, she still maintains that the Narada sting was a plant to malign her party. 
 
 "I want the probe. If the CBI has facts, let them go ahead. Let them establish that these men made some promises while taking money. A journalist came to meet a politician and gave some money. Is that enough to prove that he took bribe? I would rather say that it was a plant, a conspiracy to malign us. Else, why should a company spend Rs 80 crore for no gain? What was his motive then? At hindsight, I realise that taking K D Singh in the party was a blunder," Mamata said.
 
  
 
 
  The CM denied allegations from a section of doctors that the new clinical establishment law discriminated private hospitals. "This is not true. Government hospitals have been kept out of this Act because they are governed by a separate law. Private hospitals were not under legal surveillance so far," the CM said. She once again reassured doctors that they have nothing to fear. 
 
 "I have respect for doctors. Most of them do their best. There are complaints of negligence against only a handful. Isn't it a crime to be negligent while treating neglect a patient that might lead to his death?" She recollected the case of Trinamool MP Akbar Ali Khondekar. "He was admitted to Apollo with liver ailment. Later, I had to take him to a hospital in Delhi. But that was too late. Mukul (Roy) told me about his brother who met with a similar plight at Apollo. He also had liver ailment," the CM said.
 
 What disturbs her the most is the exorbitant charges. "Bangladesh high commissioner's father took admission at a private hospital and had to foot Rs 25 lakh bill. One of my colleagues had to pay Rs 35 lakh. Who will go there? All these instances have been bothering me for quite some time. I took feedback from the public that helped me to conceive such an Act," the chief minister said.
 
  
 
 
  Mamata was all praise for the missionary schools that have set high standards in teaching. Having said that she also took note of the huge donations charged by some schools. "A parent is asked to pay money before admission and then again after the child gets admission. We need to address this in consultation with school authorities," the CM said. 
 
 Beginning her political career from student politics, Mamata now feels that there is no need for holding students' union elections every year. Instead, she would love to follow the St Xavier's student election model in a bid to put an end to the campus clashes in some colleges. "But this is my personal opinion. I would have to talk to education minister before we take a decision," said Mamata. 
 
  
 
 
  Announcing that her party will go it alone in Bengal, Mamata kept her doors open for adjustment with other parties in other states. "The best thing I believe is to support the strongest rival to BJP in other states. Things are bound to change if, for instance, Samajwadi Party, Mayawati and Congress put up a united fight in 2019," the CM said. 
 
