MANGALURU:   zilla panchayat president   said the government should declare the entire district as  .

 She was speaking at a general meeting of the zilla panchayat on Monday. “A resolution needs to be adopted to urge the government to declare Dakshina Kannada district as drought-hit,” Meenakshi said after the meet witnessed a lengthy discussion on drinking water crisis in the district.
 
 However, zilla panchayat CEO M R Ravi said such a resolution cannot be taken without proper studies and discussions. He suggested the zilla panchayat should conduct a detailed study before taking a resolution in this regard. “It is not apt to take a resolution demanding the government to declare entire district as drought-hit. We will have to present supporting documents that emphasizes our demand scientifically. Officials need to take initiatives to manage the available water resources effectively,” he added.
 
 Ravi said the government has released Rs 2.60 crore for the task force and an additional Rs 50 lakh for the implementation of emergency drinking water schemes during summer. 
 
 Special sanctions to solve drinking water crisis were released for Bantwal, Mangaluru north, Mangaluru, Moodbidri, Puttur (Rs 40 lakh each), Sullia and Belthangady (Rs 30 lakh each). An additional sanction of Rs 50 lakh has also been released to solve drinking water crisis in zilla panchayat limits during summer. The funds can be used under discretionary powers of the president with the approval of the members, Ravi said.
 
 Meenakshi said that action will be taken to release funds based on the requests of the members if drinking water crisis was reported in their region. The meet also discussed about making water percolation and water harvesting compulsory in all houses in rural areas. Members demanded that provisions should be made to reserve funds under Mgnrega for the construction of check dams in rural areas.
 
 Meenakshi said provisions should be made to dig more borewells for drinking water in rural areas. 
 
 Discussion on bandh
 
 Zilla panchayat witnessed heated arguments between ruling BJP and opposition Congress over the bundh call given by Sangh Parivar and the BJP, during the visit of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on February 25.
 
 Congress member Mamatha Gatti demanded that the zilla panchayat needs to adopt a resolution opposing bandhs and hartals in the district. 
 
 Another Congress member M S Muhammed also reiterated the demand quoting the   directive that bans bandhs. However, zilla panchayat president Meenakshi refused to adopt a resolution against the bandh.
 
 The meet also witnessed uproar by opposition members when Meenakshi called Siddaramaiah “your chief minister.”
 
 Mamatha Gatti sought the zilla panchayat to take a delegation led by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel to the Centre for the early release of remaining sanctions under Rashtriya Madhyamik Siksha Abhiyan. 
 
 Reacting to Mamatha’s demand, Meenakshi said, “Your chief minister has not released sanctions even after delegations of Bengaluru city and Chikkamagaluru districts met him.”
 
 Later, when opposition members demanded an apology, Meenakshi made a correction by saying “our chief minister.”
 
