LUCKNOW: Candidates will have a hard time campaigning in   as residents here are annoyed with various civic problems. Many have even said that they would either not vote or opt for NOTA (none of the above), irrespective of who the candidates were.

 A reality check by TOI showed the civic condition of Lucknow west, which includes Old City, Chowk and a few areas of Rajajipuram, is pitiful. As if scarce and contaminated water supply, a problem persistent for the past several years, wasn't enough, encroachment in the narrow lanes has emerged as a mammoth issue.
 
 WATER SUPPLY
 
 Residents of Rajajipuram, including Sapna Colony, Talkatora, Malviyanagar and sector 12, have been reeling under scarcity of drinking water. Regular supply is hardly available for an hour and hand pumps and community taps are defunct. Similar is the condition in Old City where pipelines are either leak or water is full of mud, making it unsuitable for washing or cooking. Shivram Bajpayee, a resident of Saadatganj, said, “No matter who wins, they all behave in a similar manner. I see no point in casting my vote."
 FAULTY DRAINAGE
 
 Most areas of Old City have no drains at all.In Gol Darwaza, Ban Wali Gali, Campbell Road, Kahmiri Mohalla and  , drains are noncemented or very narrow. Sewer NG water flows out emitting a stink that pervades the area. Residents say even when the drains are de silted, sanitary workers leave the trash on its sides, letting it flow back.
  
  
 ENCROACHMENT
 
 Market areas around Chowk, Victoria Street and Nakkhas have turned into illegal parking lots. Trad er Suresh Agarwal LUCKNOW says lack of parking WEST space is a major is sue. “There is a police booth on the intersec tion but they never manage traffic and are Polls & f vigilant only during d VIP movements,“ he rued.
 
 STRAY ANIMALS
 
 From herds of ts cattle to street dogs, stray animals not only hamper traffic and scatter garbage, but also lead to accidents. Talat Parveen of Napier Road, said, “There many illegal dairies which have dozens of buffaloes and cows. They feed on garbage.“ Residents say LMC has not done anything despite complaints.
 
