Excited about your first trip with your significant other? With just the two of you together for seven or odd days, you think it’s going to be the best trip of your life? It probably will be one, but not before you encounter some hiccups. Think about it: you will be spending a major amount of time in each other’s company, with nothing as buffer in between. No work place emergencies, no deadlines, no household shopping list to attend to, no cooking, no cleaning, and, for the most part, no TV. Just you two. If you are planning on a trip with your bae, here’s a heads up — arguments will happen, tempers will fly, and you will have second thoughts about staying together forever. If you can survive all this, you will come back with memories, and Insta-worthy pictures, that you will treasure forever. So, here’s what you should keep in mind and prepare for your trip together accordingly...

 
 
 The trip may just take off with an argument. One partner will leave for the airport, making sure there’s enough time should something go wrong during the transit. The other though, will insist on leaving as late as possible just for the thrill of it.
 
 
 
 I-cards, flight tickets, hotel reservation print outs — you have it all saved in your mailbox. But one of you forgets to include an important document, God help you, especially if the other reminded you to pack it. With no network to access it from your mail, the first round of mud-slinging will take place.
 
 
 
 This one time…. When they start off with that famous 'American Pie' line, listen. Because this is them opening up to you, under the influence of clear skies and no deadlines. What they will tell you is a story from long back. It might not sound too interesting to you, but trust us, it’s significant to them; it’s their way of reliving a moment and including you in it. You better memorise the story, because this can be your trump card to win them over after an argument some day.
 
 
 
 Siddhartha Banerjee found this the hard way on his honeymoon recently. “I thought we could go out for the day, and whenever we felt hungry, we could just have tidbits from the street vendors. In my opinion, you get the best local cuisine on the streets. Well, I had to comb the streets of Thailand for a food-joint that met my wife’s standards of hygiene. Let’s just say, I am never going out with her ever again without planning the meals first!” 
 
 
 And one of you will be at the receiving end. A trip with your bae means unlimited gorging. And all that torture on the digestive system is bound to have some sort of repercussion. So, one of you will fall sick. But the best part is, you will discover true love, as your partner deals with more bodily fluid than they thought they had signed up for.
 
 
 
 Says Niharika Gaur, “I had done everything save writing it down for him that I would someday like to be surprised with chocolates and red roses. After 3.5 years of courtship, however, I had given up hope. Then, on our honeymoon, we had an ugly fight about some trivial issue, and I thought that the whole trip was ruined. Surprise surprise! When I came out of the shower that night, there they were — a bouquet of red roses and a hamper of chocolates waiting for me. Guess what? He really was listening all those years!”
 
 
 
 In the middle of a beautiful moment, a song will start playing, thereby making that moment the perfect one, when all the signs start to make sense. Says Subarna Kumar, “I had an arranged marriage. On my honeymoon in Sikkim, we took a trip to Zero Point. In the middle of that frozen, snowy valley, the driver took a break and stopped the car to go out for some air. We were alone in the car admiring the breathtaking view, when the car music system started playing ‘Yeh haseen waadiyaan…’ It could not have been any more romantic. We kissed.” Awww.
 
 
 
 Even though you have probably walked a million times holding each other’s hands, walking hand-in-hand where there’s no traffic, no pressure to reach somewhere in time, and no chance of getting lost in the crowd, it is something that’s completely different. When on a trip, you hold hands just because you want to. And that is when you discover your own way to do that. Are you among those who love to entwine fingers? Or does your man hold your hand by the wrist? Or do you prefer to lightly tug on to their pinky? Discover yours, its like a couple’s signature.
 
 
 
 We are never too old for the window seat. But this time, you will learn to sacrifice it to your partner. Because, giving up the window seat is a sign that you are ready to give up things you hold dear, for their happiness. It also proves that you have found your soulmate, because nobody gives up their window seat for just anybody. 
 
 
 
 You might start out on the trip with an idea of spending 24*7 in the rosy warmth of your partner’s arm, but be warned, you will need a break. So, you will sneakily try to steal some alone time, without any interruption from your partner — be it sea-shell hunting while they enjoy their beer or sneaking out for a morning jog, while they are still sleeping. Tania Roychowdhury has an interesting anecdote to share, from the time she first went on a couple trip with her then-boyfriend. “We had been friends for long, and we were used to going on trips with our gang. The first time we went on a trip alone, I got restless after a couple of days. On the second leg of our trip, the hotel had a jacuzzi. I got so excited seeing it, I locked myself in the bathroom and stayed in it for two hours, soaking in the warm water, while he got bored out of his senses,” she chuckles.
 
 
 
 Unless you are doing it for the first time, you will probably sleep off as soon as your body hits the bed. And, oh the pristine white hotel bed, the soft pillows, the cushy blanket and the air conditioning… they will all be responsible for this. In the morning though, your blistered feet and your aching back with thank you, thus leading to the next point.
 
 
 
 Rejuvenation, combined with the guilt of falling asleep last night, will fuel a passion that can surprise you. If you have never tried morning sex, well, allow yourself to drown in this experience. The lingering romance through the day will also result in loaded remarks and blushes, hinting at the early morning deed.
 
 
 
 A couple trip can make or break a relationship. If you take one too soon, when you are still out of your depth, it can turn into war-zone real quick. But if you survive it all — the hair in the shower drain, the afternoon drunken banter and the fight over which side of the bed is yours, well, rest assured, no amount of curveball life throws at you will be too tough to handle. Because you will be in it together. 
 
 
