Shimla: Seeking death sentence for the accused involved in the gangrape and murder of a minor girl in the Shimla district, hundreds of people are going to hold protest demonstration in Theog on Saturday once again. Realising the sensitivity of matter, Theog has been turned into a fortress with heavy deployment of police. 

 Sources said the heavy turnout of people is expected in Theog on Saturday as they have decided to block traffic to raise their demand for death sentence to accused involved in the crime. There is also resentment against police for alleged lapses in the investigation.
 
 Sources said the residents of Balsan, Ghund, Kotkhai, Theog, Matiana, Narkanda, Sainj, Chiar, Mahori, Dharampur, Fagu and Dharech would be assembling at Theog for the protest, adding that there was also a plan to gherao the police station. Protestors are allegedly planning demonstrations until justice is provided to the deceased minor girl with the arrest of real culprits. 
 
 BJP on Friday held protest demonstration outside the deputy commissioner’s office. In his address, former horticulture minister Narender Bragta said the family of the deceased girl wants justice and state government has completely failed in providing it. He said the wife of co-accused Suraj Singh, who was killed in police custody by alleged main accused Rajender Singh, has claimed that her husband admitting to someone else’s crime indicates some conspiracy. He said the way accused Suraj Singh was killed in police custody itself raises many doubts and questions. He said Suraj’s wife was too facing threat. He said she should be provided with police security.
 
 BJP Shimla MLA Suresh Bhardwaj alleged that a huge money was spent in the case due to which real accused are not being arrested and dummy accused have been arrested. He called for the immediate dismissal of the state government.
 
 Meanwhile, 22 organisations have joined hands to form “Gudiya Nyayay Manch” to seek justice for the deceased girl while BJP continued with its protest demonstration in Shimla on Friday too. One of the relatives of deceased girl has been made convener of this manch. Convener of manch has demanded the dismissal of state DGP with immediate effect and to make the CBI probe time bound.
 
 Co-convener of manch, Vijender Mehra said that family of co-accused Suraj Singh who was killed in the police custody should be provided police protection. Manch has decided to submit memorandum to Shimla DC and SP on Saturday while a protest march would be held from deputy commissioner’s office to state secretariat on July 24.
 
 
