KOLKATA: The truckers' strike entered fourth day on Tuesday, leaving the state government worried.

 On Tuesday, Bengal's fisheries minister   held an emergency meeting with the department officers to minimize the impact of the truckers' strike in the market, particularly in fish.
 
 The minister was concerned as 60%of Bengal's demand for fish is met by supply from   and Tamil Nadu.
 
 “We are constantly keeping a tabs on the market and taking necessary steps to check any rise in the cost of fish,“ said fisheries minister Chandra Nath Sinha. “More fish will be sold from the refrigerated vending vans run by the State Fisheries Development Corporation (SFDC). Officials from our department are also keeping a tab on the wholesale and retail fish price in the markets,“ an official said.
 
 SFDC managing director, Soumyajit Das said, “SFDC and the fish cooperatives will directly intervene in the market to control prices. We will be increasing sale in the eight corporation markets.“
 
 He added that more fish vending vehicles will be introduced to sell more fish through government initiative with its main objective aiming at restricting prices and ensuring normal supply.
 
 The agriculture marketing minister   has also sent his officers to retail and wholesale markets to record the ups and downs of the vegetables prices.
 
 Kamal Dey, member of the state government's task force for market price regulation, said, “The price of most of the perishables remained same as that of Monday. But we fear real shortage of supply from Thursday.“
 
 Generally it takes 3-4 days for transportation of goods from   or Punjab.The goods booked on 31 are yet to reach the markets. But the truckers have stopped booking from April 1.
 
 So, the supply might suddenly go dry from Thursday, Dey said. The cost of fruits, however, has soared by 10 per cent from Tuesday as the supply from Nasik and Pune has suffered a jolt.
 
 “Truckers' body insisted that the strike may continue until the rollback of the third party insurance premium, which has increased 900 per cent since 2002,“ said  , president of Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators' Association.
 
