NAGPUR: Traders are afraid that the   to lift stock limits on tur may not push up prices as desired. The   were imposed last year to contain spiralling prices. Now, when rates have touched rock bottom, the limits were completely lifted last week to help farmers get better prices.

 However, consumers can expect tur dal to only become cheaper in the coming days. In the last 10 days, rates have come down by Rs5 a kg to Rs70 a kg in leading stores. Retailers are expecting a further fall. Last year, tur was priced up to Rs200 a kg.
 
 Meanwhile, farmers continue to come with produce to markets. “It’s May, and sowing for the next season is due to begin, but farmers still have tur left with them,” said Roshan Kothari, at the   at Wani in Yavatmal district.
 
 Local traders say markets have not reacted to the move on lifting stock limits. Even earlier measures had not been of any help. In March, government had imposed 10% import duty on the commodity. This was to make imports costlier, so domestic produce fetches a better rate. Two months down the line, imported tur is Rs400 cheaper than the domestic variety at Rs3,700 a quintal. Market sources say even as imports are down to minimal levels, there is ample stock lying in countries like Myanmar and Africa, waiting to be shipped next season.
 
 Earlier last week, the government had hiked stock limits from 3,000 quintals to 9,000 quintals, before entirely doing away with the restriction a couple of days later. Imported tur is available at Rs3,600-3,700 a quintal and the domestic variety is fetching up to Rs4,100. The rates have not moved up, says a weekly report by The Itwari Grain and Seeds Merchants Association. The minimum support price is Rs5,050 per quintal.
 
 Pratap Motwani, secretary of Itwari Grain and Seeds Merchants Association, said though the limits have been lifted traders are not interested in increasing stock. There is a general fear that the limits may imposed again after rates stabilize, said Motwani.
 
 Suresh Bhojwani, a dal miller, says the market situation does not allow any increase in rates this season. The production is much more than demand. Despite MSP of Rs5,050 a quintal, farmers are continuing to bring stock to the open market, where it fetches not more than Rs4,100. Now, everything depends on the next season.
 
 Sources say informal messages are doing the rounds at trade information agencies that government may sell tur purchased by it at MSP to private millers for processing. But with the market rate being nearly Rs1,000 lower than MSP, even millers may not be interested in buying the government stock at present, say sources. Traders would bid below the MSP, which is expected to be the reserve price, said an importer. 
 
 There has been no official confirmation on the issue by the government so far, say traders. Arpit Jain of   said the government should rather keep the stock for coming years as reserve.
 
