LUCKNOW:   chief   accusation of PM   not allowing constitution of Lokpal as it would hit his own government, has brought the spotlight on her some recent attacks on top BJP leaders, including the PM, during UP elections. Political experts say Mayawati outpaced others in hitting out at PM Modi and his government over several issues ranging from killings of Indian citizens in the US to demonetisation.

 BSP chief was the only leader to demand details of transactions made by the BJP 10 months before the note ban came into effect last year. Since then she stepped her attack on the BJP brass over many issues -- from calling BJP chief Amit Shah as the “most notorious goon” to accusing PM of pushing India to the brink of war with Pakistan. Choosing to play the minority card during UP elections, Mayawati did not mind saying that BJP and RSS created a situation where Muslims were seen as ‘terrorists’. 
 
 In addition, she also accused BJP of planning to scrap the minority status of AMU and Jamia Milia Islamia University, besides ending reservation for Dalits. The BSP chief, say experts, was the only leader to accuse BJP of giving a long rope to liquor baron Vijay Mallya and former IPL chairman  , even as they fled the country with ease.
 
 The statements, BSP leaders said, were part of Mayawati’s two-pronged strategy. First, Mayawati wanted to put herself in direct conflict with the saffron party after BJP chief Amit Shah said their main rival was the   and not BSP. Secondly, Mayawati also targeted the saffron party to consolidate Dalits and Muslims, the two core vote banks she was eyeing in the elections.
 
 Mayawati’s aide and BSP MP   said: “Behenji sach bolne mein nahi ghabrati hain...wo ye nahi dekhti ki saamne wala kitna taqatwar hai...yahi unki pehchaan hai (Mayawati is not afraid of speaking the truth...she is not bothered how powerful is her opponent and that’s her identity).” Ashok said that her supporters are very much aware of what she is saying.
 
 Political expert JP Shukla said Mayawati’s strong statements against BJP and its leadership will embolden Dalits and Muslims who are being strongly wooed by her party. “Also, by doing so Mayawati wants to erase the history of being in alliance with the BJP thrice in the past,” he said. Shukla added Mayawati’s outburst against BJP were also triggered by the saffron party’s personal attacks on her and her family over corruption.
 
 
