   marks the first time that director   has worked ‘outside of family’. His track record of having worked with cousins only, was never intentional, he says, adding that he has always only looked at the merit of having a particular actor do a certain role. In fact, when he was working on Siddhartha with Vinay Rajkumar, work on Tarak had already begun and Darshan was onboard. Yet, back then, the filmmaker was time and again asked about the ‘family affair’, and in one instance was even misquoted as saying that he worked with family members because they were “professionals”.
  As Tarak — on which Prakash also fills in as co-producer along with his brother-in-law Dushyanth, for Shri Jaimatha Combines and Shree Chowdeshwari Cine Creations, and is set to release this festive weekend — the filmmaker sits down with us for a chat about moving out of his perceived comfort zone, making of Tarak, his equations with his cast and more. Excerpts.
  
  
 
  I had to pick up the phone and explain to a couple of people not to go by that interview as the quote was a mashup of two different topics. Yes, there is a comfort factor when working with family, but what I had said is that we are all professionals. So, when we are on the set of a film, it is not a holiday. Everyone comes prepared to do his job, because we do talk about remuneration, dates, etc., like any other film team. There is nothing that is taken for granted because we are cousins. And that is what I meant by professional.
  For me, the script always dictates the cast and that’s been the case with Tarak as well. It’s not that I will only work with family; it all depends on the story.
  
  
 
  Tarak has been written by Mahesh Rao, the director of Santhu Straight Forward. When I listened to the script, the idea interested me. The screenplay was then done by me and MS Abhishek, who has worked on most of my films. We narrated the script to Darshan and he liked it as well. In fact, this is a film that we have been discussing with Darshan for, say, 3-4 years, but then he was committed to a few other projects and I wanted to finish Siddhartha. Also, I have been lazy enough to do one film every 2-3 years and that’s how it took time to get done.
  I have always thought that Darshan was a good actor, especially after I saw Nanna Preethiya Ramu. He is to the point and his acting comes from the heart. People say that Darshan is synonymous with mass films and mine are more family dramas. But the truth is that he has a huge family fan base, including women and children. Tarak is similar to some of his earlier family dramas, but the presentation is different.
  Dressing up Darshan
  Darshan plays an NRI in the film, but that is not the reason we have worked on his look for Tarak. Well, I do like dressing up my actors, but then, this was my first time working with Darshan and I wanted him to have a different look in my film. We worked mainly on his hair and the clothes he sports.
  
  
 
  The film is a family entertainer, which chronicles the journey of this character called Tarak Ram, and how his beliefs and ideologies that he’s held on for all his life thus far, change in the next six months or so. It’s his journey and his way of connecting with love and family. There are twists that life has to offer and how you go about it — either by compromising or making peace with it and then getting on with it. There is always someone or a fact that is driving the situations of the story and that is what Tarak is all about.
  
  
 
  Beside Darshan, his two leading ladies Shanvi Srivastava and  , and Devaraj, who plays Tarak’s grandfather, the film has a huge ensemble cast. Considering it is a family, the other members are played by Avinash, Aravind, Chitra Shenoy, Kuri Pratap, Swati and Sumithra, who plays Darshan’s caretaker and is more like a mother to him. There are also a couple of villains — Sharath Lohitashwa and Madhu — but while getting this cast together was not that tough, matching their dates with that of the child actor Mahendra was the troublesome bit. He was the busiest of them all.
  
  
 
  One of the reasons that I have chosen to collaborate with Dushyanth is that he is my sister’s husband, but that apart, he is very interested in films, even though he comes from a real estate background. He produced Shree for me, after which jointly made Milana and now, Tarak. The best thing about him is that I only need to concentrate on my work as a director. It takes a lot off your mind when you have someone to run the show. He is very passionate about any project he takes up and is technically perhaps more aware than me in terms of the latest cameras, technology, etc.
  I would say that he is the very strong backbone of our collaboration and provides the kind of support that any director would want. We have a great working relationship — he is the businessman and I am the creative guy and that’s where we strike a balance.
