PANAJI: The demography of the cabinet cobbled from the 13-member Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and nine-member strong smaller entities appears interesting, as only the leader of the coalition, chief minister, Manohar Parrikar has true BJP blood.

 “A BJP CM is leading a Congress government. The cabinet ministers were either in the Congress or associated with it in the past. It’s a pathetic situation,” said BJP member and former vice-president of the party’s state unit,  .
 
 To ensure the party continues to head the government, its leadership has allotted seven coveted berths to Vijai Sardesai, Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Palyekar of the Goa Forward Party (GFP), Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), and   and Govind Gaude, both of whom are independents. 
 
 But while this coalition sounds like a camel-in-the-tent storythough it may not necessarily end up like the popular fabletwo of the three other berths allotted so far are to Congress imports. Neither are Mauvin Godinho and Pandurang Madkaikar true-blooded BJP functionaries, nor is the party’s long-time MLA, Francis D’Souza.
 
 With another Congress deserter, Vishwajit Rane, landing a berth in the cabinet on Wednesday, it is clear that Parrikar is the only functionary of the BJP coming from its parent body, the   (RSS).
 
 When the BJP first began trying to gain a foothold in the state assembly, it would allot tickets to RSS members, a move that was later relaxed for winnability. With the number of RSS members among the 13 elected ones being restricted to  , who has been placated with the post of Speaker, the composition of the cabinet suggests the party has sacrificed its ideology to retain power, as all its candidates with RSS background lost the recently held assembly polls.
 
 Of the four ministers who are BJP members, D’Souza is the only one to have been associated with the party since 2000. He was first elected on the Goa Rajiv Congress ticket in 1999. Rane and Godinho, on the other hand, are debutantes in the BJP, although the latter has supported the party since 2012, when he was a Congress MLA. 
 
 Cumbharjua legislator Madkaikar, is in the party for the second time. He had joined the BJP in 2003 and subsequently teamed up with the rebel group, leading to the fall of Parrikar-led government in early 2005.
 
 
