KOLKATA: The   wants to question  , former BJP state member  , about his alleged links with the Jalpaiguri   

 “We believe he had visited Delhi along with his daughter on a couple of occasions and played the facilitator for certain meetings with influential people there. The statements of Juhi’s father is crucial to ascertain if she is speaking the truth,” said a source. However, Rabindranarayan’s phone is switched off and sources insist he is not home.
 
 Juhi, said sources, has accepted there have been several occasions when she has spoken to both state and national leaders of BJP about the NGO run by Chandana Chakraborty. “She claims while some expressed willingness to support her, a few even warned her. We are now fixing liabilities of these politicians,” a CID official said.
 
 The questioning of Juhi had led cops to her bank accounts. Investigators claim she had been receiving regular payouts from Chandana for the past two years. Interestingly, even Juhi had transferred several lakhs to the NGO account, thus proving the two had joined forces in this scam.
 
 CID has claimed these transactions were made through three different accounts owned by Juhi. One such transaction shows Rs 4.5 lakh had exchanged hands as early as this year. There are at least three such transactions between the two that are now under the CID scanner.
 
 CID has found Juhi, Chandana and Rabindranarayan together travelled to Delhi twice since January this year and had visited North Block with a fourth person. Meanwhile, the district authorities of Jalpaiguri asked Chhaya Roy, former chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee in Jalpaiguri, who is also a RSP leader, to file a report about functioning of the destitute children’s homes during her tenure. The police say a fresh case will be registered in another complaint about how one of Chandana’s homes had “kidnapped” a child after allegedly forcing her mother — from Malda — to stay in another home after they got separated at New Jalpaiguri station.
 
 
