HYDERABAD: The   has decided to adopt three-pronged approach to shift   from the heart of the city to the outskirts. In the first phase, 107 tanneries, including animal skin units in Bholakpur will be shifted out on a priority basis followed by plastic and iron scrap units in the subsequent phases.

 Sources said   took a serious note of the failure of civic authorities in shifting these pollution causing units to the city outskirts even eight years after the proposal was mooted. Over 15 people, mostly children, had died after consuming   in Bholakpur in May 2009. Although these units were not directly responsible for contamination of water, it was decided to shift them out of the city in the interests of the health of the residents. However, there were several instances wherein contamination of drin king water found to have been caused by animal skin processing units.
 
 The chief secretary, who recently reviewed the status of the proposal, directed the officials to shift the units in three phases. The officials informed the CS that though land was identified at Ram pally for re-locating the animal hide units, Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) raised security concerns as its pipeline passes through the area following which the file pertaining to shifting of skin units at Rampally was put on the back-burner.
 
 It may be mentioned that Lokayukta and the state human rights commission too had taken up the cases and directed the authorities concerned to shift these polluting units. According to them, there are 533 small semi-industrial units located in Bholakpur of Musheerabad mandal.Of the total, 107 are animal skin units, 123 plastic firms, 183 iron and steel firms and 120 dealing in iron scrap.
 
 Though there was anot her proposal to shift some of the units to Edulabad on the city outskirts, this too could not materialise as the locals opposed the re-location of such polluting units in their vicinity.
 
 The CS has told the officials to ensure that housing units built under various schemes such as JNNURM are allocated to the families that need to shift along with these industrial units. GHMC Commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI that an action plan is being prepared to shift these units at the earliest.
 
