RAMPUR: Residents of a village here have been on the warpath since the arrest of two sisters for allegedly stealing Rs 800 from the cash box of a restaurant at a resort owned by SP leader  . According to the police, the girls, Ayesha, 24 and Nisha, 30, went to the restaurant at   at Jauhar University Road, Rampur for coffee, and stole Rs 800 from the cash register. Residents of   village however protested the arrest, saying that the girls, who live in the village, were not the type to go to restaurants for coffee. According to locals, the girls’ father, Mohammad Salim, is a political opponent of the SP leader and the administration is victimizing the family.
 
  The police produced the girls at the magistrate’s court, from where they were sent to the district jail under 14 days judicial custody. Residents of the village have been protesting against Azam Khan on earlier occasions, alleging he tried to occupy their farmland for building banquet halls and resorts. In 2014, police had also detained residents of the village after Khan’s buffaloes were stolen from his farm house.
  
  Khaleel, 60, uncle of the arrested women said, “Whenever Azam Khan is in power, local police filed fake cases against our family because we have opposed the encroachment of our farmland in the past. Now our girls have been arrested. We have asked for an impartial probe. Why would our girls go to the resort and order coffee? Poor people like us can’t afford those kind of restaurants.”
  
  According to police officials, the incident took place on Wednesday. Resort manager Salman Khan filed an FIR against the sisters. The SHO of Kotwali police station, Ganga Saran, said, “Following the FIR, police recovered the stolen money from the women, who were arrested under sections related to theft and receiving stolen property of the IPC.”
  
  “We will approach the   for Women against the minister and demand justice for our girls. Police picked them up from our house after telling them they would be allowed to go after some questioning, but once they were taken to the police station they were sent to jail,” said  , father of the women.
