Those who have been up, close with the trauma of a terror attack, find it difficult to relive the agony of those terrifying moments, even though each and every detail remains vividly etched deep in their psyche.  , a city-based entrepreneur, who escaped   narrowly, vouches for this fact as he shares, “I was having dinner with a friend on 26x11 at the Japanese restaurant of  , Mumbai, when we heard the gunshots in the vicinity. We took cover under the tables when we realised that we were right in the middle of a terror attack. Some of the people who were with us, tried to escape and were killed in the firing. A Greek national, who was right next to me, was hit by a bullet. The guns were firing all around us, as we lay hidden till the next morning when we were rescued by the navy seals.”

 Ask him if he still gets goose bumps going back in time and Aneesh merely says, “For a few seconds, it does chill my spine, but then I steer my thoughts to positive things. The incident did impact me for quite a few years and whenever I would enter a hotel, I would think of the escape route, in case I was caught again in the midst of a terror attack. Today, I value people and relations a lot more than that night when I was barely 25. May be with age you do attain maturity, but yes, I really feel lucky to have escaped that horrible night when so many people lost their lives.”
 
 There are others who have moved on in life after seeing the terrorists on a killing spree from very close quarters, but surely the task of forgetting those terrible moments isn’t easy. City girl   recalls her close brush with terror attack as she says, “My husband and I were having dinner at a Chinese restaurant at   in Mumbai when we saw the reports on television that Mumbai, one of the safest cities in India, was under a terror attack. Just then it dawned on all of us in the restaurant that   was running around on the street right outside. Quickly, the restaurant managers pulled down the shutters and all of us waited inside with bated breath till 3am even as gunshots were heard right outside. Hours later, when we gingerly stepped out and drove off, we found that the city that never sleeps, was completely deserted. For long, I experienced an acute sense of depression caused by that one incident, but now I have moved on.”
 
