MANGALURU: Siyasatdaanon ko darna zaroori hai (Politicians must fear the electorate).   are here to serve the people and re-present the demands of their voters in the right forum, averred actor Vishwanath  . The voters (read people) too must stop putting up with the elected representatives and question them failing which the country will never progress and the nation will have to get used to putting up forever, he added.

 Inaugurating the volunteers meet organised by   to mark completion of 200 of 400   planned here on Sunday, he said it is a sad commentary if the nation has to talk about a campaign for cleanliness and that the PM has to float this idea for the nation. "I am not supporter of any party, but do appreciate the work done by the PM with regard to Swachh Bharat and will appreciate good work done by anyone," he said.
 
 Reminding the people that their work is not done with casting their vote, Nana said their actual work beings then. "We must question their acts and only when we do so will they fear us or learn to respect the mandate," he said adding the nation will be served better with a two-party system – ruling and the opposition. "Even the opposition must be a voice of the people and remember that it is the very same electorate that has given them the right to be there," the actor said.
 
 Blaming the runaway population in India since Independence for the state of affairs vis-a-vis cleanliness and garbage, he said it is again due to reluctance of the "siyasatdaan" to tackle this issue. "We will not talk about these issues and have no qualms in fighting over Mumbai and claiming it to be ours," he said. The lack of love for one’s city and thinking merely about self and the family is reason for the neighbourhood and the cities in particular being filled with filth, he said.
 
 Likewise, the nation harps about reservation even after 70-years of Independence even while the founder of the Constitution   wanted it only for 10-years. "Reservation in my opinion should be given only to the economically backward and not anyone else," he said wondering if the nation will ever show the guts to speak about true issues affecting its march. "We are divided down the line on issues such as reservation even now," he regretted.
 
