Coimbatore: More than 150 people from the Muslim community gathered at the office of the commissioner of police (CoP) here on Tuesday, demanding the police officials to produce a Muslim youth, who was allegedly picked up by a police team at gunpoint from Kottaimedu on Monday night in connection with Hindu Munnani activist Sasikumar’s murder case.

 Popular Front of India (PFI) district secretary MY Abbas in his press note, said J Syed Abudhakir, 29, from Kannappa Nagar near Rathinapuri was selling clothes on a platform shop in Kottaimedu. On Monday around 11.30 pm, Crime Branch –CID (Special Investigation Division)   and team kidnapped Syed Abudhakir at gunpoint from Kottaimedu and kept him under wrongful confinement. This incident created a tension among the Muslim community.
 
 Abbas requested the city police commissioner A Amalraj to intervene in the issue and handover Syed Abudhakir to the family members.
 
 Syed Abudhakir’s family, PFI functionaries, and   (SDPI) were gathered in front of the CoP’s office for more than four hours. They claimed that Syed was co operating with police for investigation. However, suddenly a police team picked him at gunpoint. “My son is innocent and should be handed over to us,” EM Jaffar Ali, Syed Abudhakir’s father said.
 
 According to police sources, Syed Abudhakir is a close friend of Saddam Hussain, son of J Barkathullah from   in Saibaba Colony. After Sasikumar’s murder on September 22, 2016, Saddam Hussain went somewhere and his whereabouts were unknown. The CB-CID (SID) police planned to trace Saddam in order to get vital clues about Sasikumar’s murder case.
 
 Though initially Syed Abudhakir was co-operating for investigation, he refused to do so in the recent days. Hence, the police team had to pick him up from Kottaimedu.
 
 When TOI contacted, the police officials refused to comment about the issue. However, the family members of Syed Abudhakir were waiting at the city police commissionerate even during the night. 
 
 
