BATHINDA: Punjabi origin model based in Canada   has made a mark in the modelling world of Canada. Bali has got the distinction of being the first Punjabi Canadian model to be on the cover of Canada’   ‘Glow’. Apart from being on the cover of the magazine’ April 2017 issue which was recently released, Bali also has a page devoted to her.

 Bali Kaur, who is also human rights activist and globetrotter, represents the modelling agency Sutherland Models. With only a few months into modelling, Bali has modelled for big names including Joe Fresh, Sears and  , to name a few.
 
 In her early twenties, Bali was born and raised in Canada but her parents hail from Kalewal village in Hoshiarpur in Punjab.
 
 “It means so much to me to be part of the special diversity issue of Glow Magazine. The issue tells the stories of women with different backgrounds. With the current political climate, it is important that we unite and celebrate our differences”, says Bali in an email to Times of India.
 
 “Although I was always interested in modelling I felt it was a career I could only dream about. But after seeing a greater representation of Indian models, this dream seemed attainable. I was inspired to convince my conservative Punjabi parents about modelling and to reach out to modelling agencies. Now as I am in this industry I hope to inspire a whole new generation of girls to follow their dreams” Bali said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 She emphasizes representation in big events is so important to make a mark in the industry. “When you see yourself being represented in big league, it sends a message that one day that can be you and that you matter. I once thought I wouldn’t be able to model, but after seeing models such as Bhumika Arora and Pooja Morr gracing international runways and magazines, my dreams seemed attainable“, she says.
 
 Bali got a lot of congratulatory notes on twitter and her instagram page over her achievement. Toronto based Punjabi writer and poet Rupi Kaur wrote “full of joy seeing my sister on the cover, a Punjabi woman’ face. You have blessed my 2017”. Toronto resident Amardeep Singh said "Bali has made Punjabi girls proud by her achievement and could inspire more girls to hope career in beauty world". 
 
