JAIPUR: It was the perfect   that   made on Thursday during her reply over governor Kalyan Singh’s  , in the assembly.

 Armed with figures and lashing out at the Opposition at every opportunity, Raje listed out the achievements of her three-year-old government. “'I admit that there has not been a complete turn over; which could not have been possible because of the financial instability left behind the previous Congress government. However, we have given a direction and constructed a path to development,'' she said.
 
 Hitting out at the Congress, when it had come in power in 2008, had acted in vengeance and constituted the Mathur Commission. “'They accused me, made allegations, attacked me and my team and tried their best to try and perish us as a party. They put our schemes on the back burner. Made major announcements in its last year. However, despite all that, Congress failed to regain power,” she said. ''Economic bankruptcy can be managed; not bankrupt psyche,''she added.
 
 In response to allegations by the Opposition benches that development was restricted to constituencies of the BJP MLAs, she listed out the work done in areas which were conventionally Congress strongholds. “In Jhunjhunu, where BJP has won only twice and Congress 11 times - it was we who launched a Rs 624 crore drinking water project,” she said, adding more figures to support her state statements. She assured the House that all areas would benefit, sooner or later. “Rajasthan is like one big family to us,” she added.
 
 She criticised the opposition over its attack on government's thirdo year celebrations. ''That was not a celebration. We had worked hard and wanted people to know we have delivered,'' she said.
 
 She also criticised the Congress for announcing major projects without any budgetary provisions in the election year of 2013. “It is our ‘raj dharma’ that we are completing even those,” she said.
 
 Raje claimed that her government was facing the burden of providing maximum subsidies. “Rajasthan is ahead in agricultural produce; per capita income has increased to 5700 in 2015-16 from 2700 (2013-14),” she said. The chief minister also made a special mention of Bhamashah, Jal Swavlamban, constitution of OBC commission and other decisions. She assured her government will do its best to introduce quita for SBC and EBC.
 
 Raje accused Congress of deliberately disrupting proceedings in house on Wednesday. ''We learnt that our member Jogaram Patel, was going to raise the issue of irregularities in appointments at the Jai Narayan University. The disruption caused was to avoid the discussion but remember, there is no running away. Guilty would be punished,''she warned.
 
 She ended her address by saying she was ready for larger challenges for the betterment of the state.
 
 
