 administrators told   there was no way they would allow him to implement his financial reforms plan that would hit India hard.

 While the entire cricketing world was taken aback by the sudden, unexplained resignation of   chief Shashank Manohar on Wednesday, Mumbai Mirror can reveal that behind his decision to quit was the BCCI’s refusal to accept his financial reforms that could see the Board take a hit of up to Rs 3,000 crore.
 
 On Tuesday night, Manohar, who went incommunicado for nearly eight hours after putting in his papers, met two members of BCCI’s Committee of Administrators --Vinod Rai and Vikram Limaye -- at a five-star hotel in Mumbai where he was told that the Board will not accept a paisa less from its share of ICC’s revenues.
 
 While Rai confirmed his meeting with Manohar in Mumbai to Mumbai Mirror, Limaye refused to comment.
 
 BCCI has been steadily building support for its position on ICC’s financial reforms and on Tuesday Manohar finally realised that one of his biggest initiatives as the world cricket body’s chief was doomed to fail. He sent in his resignation letter just hours after the meeting in Mumbai.
 
 The financial reforms, which would direct a lot more money to smaller cricketing nations like Zimbabwe and Bangladesh and reduce India’s share of ICC kitty, was Manohar’s brainchild and he had staked his reputation in pushing it despite knowing how bitterly it will be opposed by the BCCI.
 
 In fact, before the administrators took over from the BCCI regime headed by Anurag Thakur, the Board had decided to pull out of the ICC-conducted Champions Trophy in June in a retaliatory measure. While the new administrators are not for such a drastic step, they made it clear to Manohar that the BCCI will use its entire might to oppose his ‘socialist’ plan for distributing ICC’s revenues.
 
 The BCCI, in fact, has already won some foreign boards to its corner. When South Africa Cricket’s Haroon Lorgat was in India last year, he was sympathetic of India’s opposition to ICC’s financial reforms.
 
 On Tuesday, BCCI chief executive officer Rahul Johri was in Colombo and is understood to have received a similar assurance from the Sri Lankan board. Johri, sources said, has even convinced Bangladesh too side with India.
 
 
