JALANDHAR: Bogged down by open infighting that has not reduced even after the end of polling process,   Punjab unit has decided to form a committee to look into reports of factionalism. The trigger seems to be the latest incident at   where there was an assault on one of the leaders and FIRs was filed against two groups.

 The decision was taken on Thursday at a meeting of state BJP at Chandigarh, which was also attended by party affairs in charge Prabhat Jha. “The decision has been taken in principle and the committee would be constituted in a day or two,” said state BJP chief Vijay Sampla, speaking to TOI after the meeting.
 
 Though all the candidates of the assembly elections were also invited, apart from state-level leaders and district presidents, many of them did not turn up at the meeting. Sources said that even as the role of different leaders during elections was not discussed openly in the meeting, some leaders conveyed specific incidents to Jha. Party sources claimed that a few candidates are “unhappy” with state BJP chief Vijay Sampla and a leader from Phagwara has even sent a written complaint to party president Amit Shah.
 
 The most embarrassing case for the party was reported from Phagwara. Two factions here got registered FIRs against each other and openly traded allegations. As the infighting spilled over onto streets, one faction even appeared on same page with the   after police raided residence of one of the BJP activists who was booked on the complaint of the other side and took away his wife and kids.
 
 Though heart burning was already there between two factions here – one owing allegiance to Sampla and the other led by local   and candidate Som Parkash – it took a bitter turn when, after a round of acrimonious comments on social media against each other, former district BJYM president Ashok Duggal was assaulted. In this case, BJP district vice-president Gurdeep Singh Deepa was also named along with two others. Ashok’s wife and BJP councillor Neetu Duggal even alleged that there was an attempt to outrage her modesty. Deepa was later exonerated in police probe.
 
 Sources in BJP revealed that state leadership failed to intervene to control the infighting even as the Congress appeared to be taking advantage of it and both the sides used their own pulls and pressures. “No senior leader has approached us to broker peace,” claimed a Phagwara-based BJP leader who was at the forefront in the whole episode.
 
 When asked about it, Sampla said that the committee would be looking into the incidences of infighting and refused to add anything further. He said that meeting was mainly convened to discuss events for centenary of Jan Sangh founder Deen Dayal Upadhyay.
 
 
