JAIPUR: In what would accelerate   and expand its reach, Cisco on Monday announced a series of strategic initiatives including the signing of two statements of intent (SoI) in education and water.

 For the education initiative, the global networking giant and Rajasthan government signed an agreement to roll out digital classrooms in women colleges to support and advance women working in the technology sector.
 
 "To be in tandem with the changing times, we need to have smart people that know technology. Those who will not advance themselves with the technology will fall behind,” chief minister   said.
 
 On its part, Cisco said the commitment is to accelerate digital Rajasthan and support the government’s vision of enabling one woman e-literate in every household. It announced video enabled digital classrooms in women colleges that will cover 10,000 students over one year, both in rural and urban areas in the state.
 
 “The digital classrooms will facilitate training and development of IT skills for women and enable them for the digital era as well as build the state’s pool of highly skilled technology professionals,” Cisco said in a statement.
 
 In collaboration with the State Institute of Education Management And Training (SIEMAT), Cisco has deployed virtual classrooms across 12 institutes in the state to provide 50,000 man-hours of training through digital classrooms.
 
 "The digital classroom solutions through SIEMAT, the   courses in 25 government   in the divisional headquarters are efforts that make us all proud," Raje added.
 
 The agreements which were signed in the presence of the chief minister and the Cisco’s executive chairman  , also covered an initiative to collaborate with the government in its efforts in water resource management.
 
 “Cisco’s water management solutions offer near real-time visibility across the state’s water assets through Internet of Things (IoT) water sensors that transmit information on water levels and flows,” the Cisco statement added.
 
 Explaining the benefits of adopting advanced technology, Chambers said, ‘‘Digitization opens up unprecedented opportunities for every country, state and city. The impact of digitization is all encompassing – citizen-centric services for enhanced quality of life, smart secure communities, innovation, entrepreneurship, digital skills and education for all.”
 
 Before signing of the agreements, top officials of departments including energy, water resources, labour, and higher and technical education gave their presentation for the need of IT intervention to better services.
 
