KOCHI: Absence of sufficient parking spaces in the city has become a major concern and the district administration has agreed to come up with a solution within two months. 

 District collector   said it would come up with measures to decongest Kochi roads. It includes the aspect of sufficient parking facilities and provision for pedestrian pathways.
 
 He said that discussions were taking place at various levels to address the issue. "One of the main issues is lack of land," he said adding that people should also cooperate with them and be willing to change their mindsets. "They should be willing to park vehicles at a designated parking area and walk a short distance."
 
 The collector was responding to the Kerala state human rights commission's (KSHRC) directive to Metro authorities for providing sufficient parking facilities by the time Metro becomes operational.
 
 KSHRC acting chairperson P   directed the secretaries of Kochi corporation, Aluva, Thrikkakkara and   municipalities to initiate steps for providing ground -level and multi-level parking facilities. The local bodies should provide parking facilities at government-owned land available along the Metro route.
 
 KSHRC has directed public works department's (road and bridges) executive engineer to strengthen drains, cover it with concrete slabs and construct footpaths for pedestrians. As the department informed that sufficient funds have been allocated for the work, Mohan Das asked them to complete the work within the set timeframe.
 
 He asked   (KMRL) to check whether it would be possible to provide parking spaces below Metro's viaduct along the stretch between Aluva to Maharaja's College. The commission also told the Metro authorities to complete renovation of footpath from Edappally to Kaloor. KSHRC issued the directions after considering a petition filed by T K Abdul Aziz. KMRL informed the commission that it was not safe to provide parking spaces under Metro's viaduct. Such measures would result in accidents. The Metro agency said it has conducted a study on parking facilities in the city. Once the Metro and feeder services become operational more people would opt to travel by public transport, and eventually dependence on private vehicles will reduce.
 
 
