NAVI MUMBAI: Sweetmeat shops and homemakers of the city seem to have gone into the mango mood.

 From serving the delectable aam raas to   and barfis to home made cakes and ice cream, there is no limit to how one can use the king of fruits in preparing various delicacies.
 
 With the season of mangoes having started and markets being flooded with the fruit, other fruits seem to have got sidelined.
 
 At a popular thali restaurant in Vashi, aam raas and puris have already become a popular item. The juice is made fresh everyday in small batches to avoid any wastage.
 
 The same can be said of aam panna that is made from raw mangoes and is definitely a summer delight.
 
 Naina Choksi, a resident of Vashi prefers to make the aam panna at home. She uses totapuri for that sweet-sour taste. “I make large quantiti es in the form of a syrup and freeze the excess. This way it lasts longer and can be drunk as a summer drink anytime,“ she said.
 
 “Although mango pulp might be available throughout the year, using the fresh fruit is different especially in taste and texture,“ said Sanpada resident Parul Vora.
 
 The mithai shops are also indulging in the king of fruits, from pedas to barfis, the alphonso orange colour is all out on display .
 
 Even branded frozen desserts have introduced mango specialities. “The alphonso mango pulp is ideal for barfi.It is full of natural flavour and just a bit of pulp is required for the desired taste,“ sa id Shashi Pai, who enjoys making sweetmeats at home.
 
 For  , this is the season for mango jam, home made ice-cream, ice lollies and sponge cakes topped with slices of the ripe fruit.“There is so much one can do with the fruit and the fact that it is available only once a year makes one want to try out everything,“ she said.
 
 Like all fresh fruits, the shelf life of mango is not long, but Nikita said the trick is to make small quantities that finish early .
 
 “Items bought from the store will always have preservatives but anything made at home will have quality of the fruit, giving it a pure and healthy taste,“ she added.
 
