Seasoned actress   recently made a small-screen comeback in a full-fledged role as Bhadra in Vanambadi. The actress, who has been in the industry for over two decades, says that she feels happy when people identify her through the roles she has portrayed in serials than in movies. In a candid chat, the actress talks about her latest character, the change in working styles in serials, and more…

 
 
 
 I am happy to be back in serials, that too with a meaty role. My character Bhadra in Vanambadi is the quintessential evil character but she is a greedy woman. Actress Chippy’s character Nandini and her daughter live with Bhadra.
 
 I have to thank Chippy, who is also the producer of the serial, for the role. She has always been someone who has offered me good roles and Bhadra is definitely one among them. We share a good relation and in some projects I used to be her rival as well.
 Before Vanambadi, I acted opposite her in the serials Sthree Oru Santhwanam and Aakashadoothu. Though we are both cordial in real life, the moment the director says ‘action’, I transform into Bhadra just like Ambi’s transition in Anniyan (laughs).
 
 
 
 As the channels multiplied, the shows also increased. Earlier, only talented people used to get chances to act in soaps, but now anybody can show their face. Channels now prefer new faces to veteran actors. The majority of new artistes come from a good family background and are highly educated. They may be software engineers or people in other professions, who try a hand at serials just as a hobby. But this affects actors like us who do not have any other means of livelihood.
 
 The other change I have noticed is that apart from acting, importance is now given to the dressing style and the appearance of an actor on screen even if the role is small.
 That said, I am happy I got full freedom to play the character of Bhadra, who is a pakka village woman. I got support from the director to contribute my own inputs to the character. I have tried to bring in the local mannerisms and also have used shabby looking saris as part of my look in the serial.
 
 
 
 
 In the television industry, I have always felt that only a few new-gen actors take their work seriously. The dedication towards their role is missing and they see acting just as a job. I am not advising them but I want to convey to them that they should show more commitment towards the profession.
 
 
 
 
 My mother Cherthala Sumathi was a veteran theatre artiste and my first guru in acting. She inculcated the art in me and would say that we should behave as the character. So, every role is dear to me. Though I had done many films including Kunjiramayanam and 1983, people who I meet often approach me with ‘serialil abhinayikkunna Seema G Nair alle?’ They love to see me on TV than in films.
 
 I have also been part of several theatre productions and I cherish them. Theatre productions are the best acting schools for an artiste. As theatre happens live without any re-takes, it is the best way to develop one’s acting skills. I feel that working in at least one good theatre production will help you to create a good base in acting on screen.
 
 
 
 
 I felt low at times when I realise that my life didn’t turn out the way I wanted it to. The acting dreams I had in my younger days vanished with time. But I consider the roles that I receive now as bonuses in my career, which has spanned two decades.
 
 
 
 
 I was part of Tamil actor Vijay’s film Bairavaa and had received offers from a few other Tamil projects. But I am looking forward to roles that give me a space to perform.
 Currently, I am also playing Bhadra in the Tamil version of Vanambadi, titled Mouna Ragam.
 In Mollywood, I am part of Mammootty’s Street Lights, which is directed by Shyam Dutt. 
 
 
