BENGALURU:   presented to M Venkatesh and Boreddy Nagamalleshwari - two differently-abled students - at the 52nd convocation of   (BU) on Friday, glittered with the spirit of their undying determination. The duo was among the 200 students who were accorded the honour at the convocation.

 Blindness did not stop Venkatesh from scaling dizzying heights in the field of music. Venkatesh was awarded two gold medals, in addition to a cash reward, in Carnatic music, from the Acharya Patashala College of Arts and Science. A native of Kolar, Venkatesh is currently pursuing MA in economics at BU. However, his passion for music remains as high as ever.
 
 Lamenting the increasing commercialisation of the arts, Venkatesh said, "The arts are losing their traditional value. I started studying music to keep the tradition alive, and not because I wanted to earn a medal."
 
 Attributing his passion for music to the people of his village, he added, "Though they are not educated, people of my village are very passionate about music. One of my neighbours practised twice every day. Listening to him inspired me to take up music."
 
 A music lecturer at Acharya College, Rajalakshmi said that Venkatesh was an extremely dedicated student. "I have known him since his pre university days. Many people discouraged him, but I knew he was destined for greater things. Apart from these medals, he scored the highest in economics and history in our college," she added.
 
 Nagamalleshwari, 24, came to the city from Neredupalli in Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh two years ago to pursue an MA in Telugu. Although doctors have not been able to diagnose her condition exactly, Nagamalleshwari walks around with the help of a stick because of a swollen leg.
 
 "But I have not let that stop me from pursuing my goals," said Nagamalleshwari.
 
 Keen to experience life in another state, besides her thirst to learn another language, brought Nagamalleshwari to BU, after she completed her undergraduation at Oriental College in Tirupati. "The scholarship that was offered here helped as well. But I hope the varsity offers scholarships to more underprivileged students. I want to earn a PhD in Telugu and subsequently become a lecturer," she added.
 
 Pursuing her postgraduation in Bengaluru has been a memorable experience for Nagamalleshwari. "Whatever little Kannada I can speak, I learnt it from my friends," she said.
 
 An office assistant in the Telugu department, Yashoda said that Nagamalleshwari was fiercely independent. "Initially, she was quite shy, but has become very confident now. With a little guidance, she can go a long way," Yashoda said.
 
 
 
 
 The excitement in the air was palpable at the 52nd convocation ceremony of Bangalore University at the Jnana Jyothi Auditorium here on Friday. Parents and students milled around the premises soaking in the atmosphere.
 
 Besides undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, as many as 85 PhDs in various disciplines were awarded on the occasion.
 
 In the convocation address, Prof Dhirendra Pal Singh, director of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council highlighted the role that the youth had in the overall development of the country.
 
 "Bengaluru is the world's most dynamic city according to the 2017 JLL city momentum index. An education hub, the city is drawing students from across the country and abroad," said Prof Singh, adding that universities need to focus on establishing clubs and encourage co-curricular activities.
 
 "It's important to foster a culture of innovation," he added.
 
 Vice-chancellor of BU, Prof B Thimme Gowda delivered the welcome speech.
 
