AURANGABAD: Various units of the   in the state, including Aurangabad, have tracked the mobile towers used by   or representatives for tele-phishing to two districts in  .

 The police have tracked the specific towers from where the calls are made in many cases and money siphoned off from unsuspecting bank customers. The callers speak Hindi fluently and target states where the language is widely spoken. 
 
 The sleuths have also found that the suspects obtain SIMs with fake identity proofs.
 
 According to the police, teams from across the state are wondering as to how the suspects secure the phone numbers and bank account details of customers. For instance, the miscreants give a call posing as bank staff, claim that the customer’s debit card is about to expire, seek details and siphon off money.
 
 A cyber crime branch sleuth posted in Mumbai said, “Almost 90% of   originate from Jamtara in Jharkhand. Of late, unidentified criminals from Giridh district, also in the same state, have been committing cheating customers.”
 
 The police have said that almost all the tele-phishing crimes started taking place since the introduction of smart phones and 3G internet service. 
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar confirmed that the highest number of tele-phishing calls have originated from Jamtara and Giridih districts so far. Their specific target is the Hindi-speaking belts in the country, he said.
 
 The police chief said that the cyber crime branch is working overtime to nab the criminals who have been frequently changing mobile SIMs.
 
 “As per inputs received by us, the fraudsters do not seem to be highly educated. They have just mastered the art of speaking fluently to their victims over the phone,” said Kumar.
 
 Jalna superintendent of police Jyoti Priya Singh said, “While investigating of one such case, we contacted our Jharkhand counterparts. It was found that there were at least a couple of mobile towers in Jamtara from where thousands of calls are made every day to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.”
 
 Singh said that it is necessary to find out the sources from where the criminals collect information like names, phone numbers and bank details of customers.”
 
 Senior police officials from Mumbai too have come on record saying that even their jurisdictions have been witnessing a number of tele-phishing attacks originating from Jharkhand.
 
 Mumbai police commissioner Datta Padsalgikar said, “My jurisdiction does not exclusively report tele-phishing attacks from one pocket. Yes, there are tele-phishing attacks originating from Jharkhand. Efforts are being taken at all the levels to detect these cases and take them to logical conclusion”
 
 Similarly, cities like Thane are also not immune to such attacks, with a surge in complaints. Thane police commissioner Parambir Singh said that definitely there have been cases of tele-phishing in my jurisdiction. It has been discovered during investigation that such calls they originated from Jharkhand, he added.
 
