Chennai: Cricket and soccer matches have drawn crowds for many years now, not just for the action on the ground but the commentary as well. This has now extended to e-sports and online gaming. Platforms like Facebook Live, Youtube gaming and Twitch are used to stream games, which can be viewed by spectators real time. And if one has a flair for commentary, they become a ‘shoutcaster’ who provides commentary while playing. 

 Vaibhav Chavan from Underdogs Gaming Studio explains - “Basically, as you play, the game is streamed to draw spectators. In games that have multiple players and are designed like a battle, people like to watch you play the game.”
 
 Zerah Gonsalves was a professional gamer for 8 years before she decided to become a shoutcaster. Speaking at length about a game, while they are being livestreamed, adds spice to the e-sport tournaments. “Shoutcasting is more like commentary in cricket. It makes the tournament interesting. One needs to know about developments at each level and possess the ability to speak at length,” she said.
 
 Charging on a per hour basis, shoutcasters are usually seasoned gamers with a flair for speaking. “With the e-sports industry seeing double the number of tournaments with atleast 8 big tournaments a year, from 2 over a year ago,quality shoutcasters are on demand.. Gamers are generally shy and not articulate enough, so the well-spoken among them have a good chance to have a flourishing career as a shoutcaster,”said Kiran Noojibail, head, e-sports, LXG India, a gaming company, and a full-time shoutcaster with the firm.
 
 Niharika Patil or Niha Novacaine, as she is known in the gaming world indulges in multi player battle arena games and is one of the 10 partnrs that work with Twitch, a live streaming video platform. “I live stream my play twice a day, once for my Indian audience and once for my European audience. I am also a cosplayer i.e. I design and wear costumes and accessories to represent a specific character.,” said Patil. 
 
 While Patil acts as an influencer for the platform, drawing a global audience to watch her play, she engages with her audience in multiple ways. “My audience can watch me play and listen to my commentary. I also do real life streams where we discuss music, talk about other games and gaming techniques. It is like hosting a live gaming talk show,” she said.
 
 To start with, shoutcasters participate in smaller tournaments and charge up to Rs 500 per hour, participating in 8-hour sessions. As they graduate to bigger tournaments, they can charge upto Rs 2000 per hour. “There is going to be an increase in the demand for shoutcasters with the government paying attention to e-sports. The recently conducted Indian gaming forum with backing from the government and Ronnie Screwvala’s initiative to spend Rs 80 to Rs 100 crore on a tournament will only add to the fun,” said Gonsalves, who goes with an online name Angela.
 
 Twitch or Youtube and more recently Facebook (with the live option) offer platforms for live streaming of games. BlueStacks, which has a player through which android apps can be used on a PC,has partnered with Twitch to bring one click streaming - a hassle free way of accessing live streams along with other features including real time chats with followers. 
 
 LXG India conducts regular streaming events, broadcasting international tournaments from Malaysia etc, with shoutcasters in India participating. “We conduct small weekly tournaments and livestream them to promote the shoutcaster community,”Aravind Ananth, founder, LXG India.
 
 Ends
 
 
