Panaji: Belief. It’s the word that coach Norbert Gonsalves used so many times during his 12-minute address to the team on the opening day that almost everyone took note. Maybe a bit out of compulsion, rather than choice, but the message was loud and clear.
 On the opening day of   FC training at the Velsao beach when just 22 showed up – one absent and three in college – it was important for the coach to tell his players what exactly he felt about them. This was not a top-class team like in the past. In fact, this must probably be one of the weaker sides that the club ever had since inception in 1956. But if you believe Norbert – and there is no reason to disbelieve – they might still be able to retain the   they won a year ago.
  “We have to start all over again but I am ready for the challenge. Without I-League to play for this season, it’s difficult to convince players (to play for Salgaocar) but we have a healthy youth set-up and I have asked all players to believe in themselves. I believe that we will triumph,” said Norbert.
  Norbert has reasons for his belief. Last season, in similar circumstances, he put together a squad that was good enough to win the Goa Pro League. This time, the job is a little bit tougher – at least nine of the better performers have left the club – but still achievable.
  Nowhere is the departure of players more felt than in the goalkeeping department where both Bruno Colaco and Naveen Kumar are now with FC Goa. Liston Colaco, the club’s star striker last season, and defender Jovel Martins have also moved to the Goan franchise in the   (ISL), leaving Norbert to start the rebuilding work all over again.
  “Our best hope is our young players. We did well in youth tournaments last season. I personally watched them play and I am sure they will deliver the goods with the senior team,” said Norbert. Five from the under-20 squad have been promoted.
  Besides the youngsters, Norbert can count on his own experienced campaigners like Gilbert Oliveira, Leny Pereira, Brian Mascarenhas, Mackroy Peixoto and Agnel Colaco. Newcomers like Assumption Soares (Dempo SC), Pedro Gonsalves, Melvin Lobo (both Calangute Association) and Joaquim Carvalho (St Cruz Club, Cavelossim) have all proved themselves in good measure at the local stage last season, while the likes of James Fernandes, Clencio Pinto and Ronaldo Oliveira have the potential to sparkle.
  Maybe, there is ample reason to believe. No wonder, Norbert is drilling the same belief into the team.
