BATHINDA: Upset over the Congress government’s failure to come up with the notification about waiver of farm loans even after completing six months in power, the members of seven peasant outfits in Punjab are preparing for a five-day protest in chief minister Amarinder Singh’s home town   from September 22. 

 The seven farm organisations include BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), BKU (Dakaunda), Kirti Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan union, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, BKU (Krantikari) and Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Azaad).
 
 According to information, the farmer bodies are organizing ‘jago’ (night vigil march), candle march and ‘jhanda’ (flag) march across the Malwa region. The activists of these organisations are even collecting ration to feed hundreds of farmers who are expected to reach Patiala for the protest.
 
 Candle marches are being organised in three to four villages every day where a large number of women are also participating to ensure that the planned protest is Patiala has a large turnout.
 
 "We are tired of waiting for the debt waiver to be implemented. Earlier, the SAD-BJP government and now, the Congress government have only shed crocodile tears for farmers. In reality, they have done nothing for the welfare of the farmers. The proposal by the Congress government is not acceptable as we want complete debt waiver since chief minister   had promised that before the assembly elections. We are organising a five-day protest at Patiala to remind Amarinder of his promise of complete debt waiver," said   (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri.
 
 "We expect more than 10,000 farmers to reach Patiala and if police put up barricades to stop farmer mobilisation or tried to arrest farmers before September 22 we will plan accordingly," said Kokri.
 
 BKU (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill said marches were being organised to mobilise people for a big protest and ration was also being collected for those going to Patiala.
 
 When contacted, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of Shiromani Akali Dal said the Congress had accused the previous Akali-BJP government in Punjab of not supporting the farmers but now its promise of loan waiver had turned out to be hollow.
 
 On the other hand, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said, "We had a meeting with farm organisations on Thursday where farmers were told that implementation of debt waiver was in the pipeline. The government is borrowing money for the waiver and it will be done before the wheat sowing season. We are working for the overall welfare of farmers and also discussed issues such as crop diversification and pollution from burning of crop stubble."
 
