HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old employee of  , who went missing from   on February 4, was found murdered and his body was buried at an   at Hashamabad in Bandlaguda. The body, buried under a concrete floor, was exhumed on Thursday and two of his assailants were nabbed. Police said adultery was the reason behind banker  .

 The Chandrayangutta police said Imran, a resident of Fateh Darwaza, had been staying in Abu Dhabi along with his mother and step-father since 2013. On January 16, he returned to Hyderabad to settle a marital dispute of his relative. On February 4, his mother Syeda Afsha lodged a missing complaint at Kamatipura police station.
 
 During investigation of Imran's call data record (CDR), police found that he had made his last call to one Fatima, but she could not be traced. When her phone number's CDR was retrieved, the records showed that she had made several calls to one Shafiuddin, 28.
 
 Shafiuddin was picked up and on interrogation, he spilled the beans that Imran was killed. Apart from Shafiuddin, his cousin Saif Bin Sabeth Barabood, his wife Fatima and an Intermediate student, Hasham Ali were involved in the conspiracy and execution of the cold-blooded murder, police said.
 
 Shafiuddin confessed that the victim's cousin Syed Bin, who was serving in the Qatar Military , recently came to know that Imran was in an illicit relationship with his wife Fatima. Syed Bin lives in Qatar, while his wife, who resides in the city, occasionally visits her husband. Imran, who was already married to Nazli and has a child, had an affair with Fatima.
 
 As both familiies, including Fatima, were coincidentally in the city, Syed Bin decided to eliminate Imran. “Fatima's husband and brother slit his throat and killed him,'' deputy commissioner of police (South Zone) V Satyanarayana said. They shifted the body in a car to Hashamabad, where Shafiuddin's house was being built.They wrapped the body in a cloth, buried it in the soil and cemented the floor. A day after the murder, Syed Bin and Fatima took a flight to Qatar. Shafiuddin and Sheikh were arrested on Thursday .
 
