All five hill station projects approved by the government in Pune district's Maval-Mulshi belt will now come under the   (PMRDA), as part of the state's hill station policy. This was clarified by PMRDA officials on Wednesday, a day after the government announced denotification of  's special planning authority (SPA) status. Like Lavasa, the officials said, all other hill station projects in the belt will now come under the PMRDA. 

 "Only Lavasa was accorded the SPA status and it has been denotified. The other hill station projects -   city, Aqualand Infrastructure, Satind Infrastructure and   hill stations - approved in the belt will come under PMRDA," said Kiran Gitte, chief of PMRDA.
 
 The PMRDA has been provided with details of these projects and it has to approve all development works in the belt. "We have the list of approved hill station projects. The developers are yet to approach us for building permission. I am told that these projects are awaiting some environment clearances before they get their master plan approved by us," Gitte said.
 
 Aqualand representatives said they were awaiting environment clearances from the Centre before they submit the building plan to PMRDA. The project, with a little over 1,000 acres, was approved by the urban development department in Mulshi Khurd and Varak for development.
 
 The government had laid down 19 conditions, which included a no objection certificate from Tata Company for use of Mulshi dam water. "We have written to Tata for permission to use water and the building master plan is ready for approval from the PMRDA," Aqualand senior vice-president RP Tyagi said.
 
 The hill station project comes under the catchment area of the dam and the state had sought a no-objection certificate from the environment department about waste water and solid waste. The company is keen to start a research centre, education hub and tourism development in the area.
 
 The other hill station projects, which now come under PMRDA, are yet to start any project, officials said. All these projects faced stiff opposition from villagers and activists because of water scarcity in the district. They argued that water to be supplied to the city was diverted due to the projects.
 
 
