According to estimates, the online   space is worth around Rs 400 crores, and is growing at 30 percent annually. “Tradition weds tech” is how Gorav Aggarwal – founder and president,   – describes this space. Late last year, LoveVivah, a city-based matchmaking  , relaunched after tying up with the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). The new site came equipped with security features that make it harder for fraudsters to wreck the dreams of those looking for a soulmate. “This is just a start, and there is still a long way to go,” Aggarwal told TOI’s Sharad Kohli.

 Post demonetisation, how would you assess the online matrimonial space?
 
 In 2017, as an impact of demonetisation, the wedding industry will move towards a structured and organised pattern.
 
 Traditionally, people consider small-time marriage bureaus operating on hard cash as more reliable than the online matrimonial sites, but with demonetisation, user inclination towards online matrimony sites would increase and the industry as a whole will witness better acceptability.
 
 What were the security fears and challenges that made you tie up with UIDAI?
 
 A major challenge faced by the online matrimony sites is the inflow of fake profiles, i.e. people creating profiles with false info and details, or on behalf of others without their consent. We have tried to put a check on this by incorporating online Aadhaar verification process as part of the registration procedure. Our tie-up with UIDAI has enabled us to verify and cross-check in real time if the Aadhaar card details mentioned by the user are correct or not. We can guarantee the existence and authenticity of the user who has created a profile.
 
 It’s a crowded market online, so what marks LoveVivah out from other marriage portals?
 
 We are the first and till date only matrimony site to implement online Aadhaar verification as an authentication measure for our registered users. Not only this, we follow a 5-step process to ensure we offer the most genuine and authentic matches to our users, which involves verification through email, mobile number, Aadhaar card, Facebook, LinkedIn.
 
 Are dating sites direct competition, or do you see LoveVivah co-existing happily with the likes of  ?
 
 LoveVivah is a matrimony site which aims to cater only to those interested in marriage. With due respect to the dating sites, we would like to mention that we are not into the dating domain nor do we have plans to enter the domain in the near future. Dating is still at a very nascent stage in our culture and it will be long before parents and families will start to accept dating as a part of matrimony. Yes, we can sure co-exist with other dating sites as the purpose of existence is different for both.
 
 Being a   startup, what does the city bring to the profile of your company?
 
 Gurgaon has helped take us to the next level owning to its vibrancy, availability of resources and infrastructure. 
 
 
