GURUGRAM: The probe in the case of   of the   will not be complete till next month. Ten days after the probe was ordered, the department is yet to finish taking statements. 

 In fact, the doctor believed to be on duty when the woman was brought to General Hospital in Civil Lines has now been given a month-long leave. The approach of the Gurgaon health department is in stark contrast to Mewat officials, who had transferred the guilty nurse Al Afia General Hospital within two days of the probe being ordered. 
 
 The mentally challenged rape survivor was refused admission and a C-section procedure at the General Hospital. This happened on April 20. The woman was ubsequently referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where she delivered a stillborn. TOI highlighted the matter, following which a probe was ordered on April 25.
 
 The committee had compiled its fact-finding report, based on entries in the hospital records, a week ago. It revealed the survivor was referred to Delhi by the government-run General Hospital “because she needed an MBBS doctor. The records show the woman had reached Gurgaon at 8.03pm. She was “mentally disturbed” and was thrashing her limbs, entries in the hospital’s register show. A written report in the Gurgaon hospital reads the woman had earlier delivered a child via C-section. She was pre-dilated and therefore needed an immediate C-section surgery, which had to be conducted by an MBBS doctor. So at 8.15pm, the doctors at General Hospital referred her to Safdarjung. But this raised more questions. Was there no doctor available at the General Hospital at that time?
 
 The committee is yet to record the oral statements of the staff who were on duty when the incident happened. Sources revealed this laxity has now delayed the probe for another month, because the doctor on duty on April 20 has now gone on a month’s leave, ostensibly for her wedding. Dr Sarita Rani was on duty when the patient was brought to the hospital. It was she who referred the patient to Delhi. 
 
 Dr Kanta Goyal, principal medical officer, Gurgaon, told TOI, “Dr Sarita Rani was posted in the labour room to attend to any medical emergencies. Her entries show the patient needed an MBBS doctor to assist in the delivery. We are yet to speak to her about this, and now she is on leave. We’ll only be able to complete the probe once she returns.”
 
 
