THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as the tension between BJP and CPM simmered over the clashes that happened in the capital just days before the weekend, an   was fatally hacked at Sreekaryam here late on Saturday.

 Though police ruled out political motivation behind the murder of Rajesh, 32, the BJP held the CPM responsible for the fatal attack on the RSS’s basti karyavahak. CPM denied the allegation. BJP has called for a dawn-to-dusk hartal on Sunday.
 
 A gang attacked Rajesh with sharp weapons and chopped off his left arm, from the elbow. He died while undergoing an emergency surgery at a private hospital. Police said Rajesh was attacked around 9pm at  , Karumbankonam, when he stepped out of his house to buy milk from a shop in the neighbourhood.
 
 Onlookers rushed the injured to the private hospital. He died at 10.33pm. Rajesh had deep lacerations on his legs and neck, and a stab injury on his abdomen. 
 
 “He used to buy milk from the shop every night around 9pm. It seems the assailants knew his routine,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Police have identified three of his assailants: Manikuttan, Vipin and Vijith. Manikuttan is a history-sheeter, recently-released from prison after being detained under Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act.
 
 BJP and RSS leaders alleged that the assailants identified had close ties with the communist party. However, police maintained that the murder was not politically motivated. They said personal enmity led to the crime. Police said the crime happened after there was a dispute between the prime suspect (Manikuttan) and his neighbour Vishnu.
 
 A few days ago, Manikuttan assaulted Vishnu, following which Rajesh took the latter to Sreekaryam police station to file a complaint. This is suspected to be the reason, police sources said.
 
 The murder happened when prohibitory orders issued by the district police chief was still in place after the clashes between BJP and CPM on Thursday and Friday. Though a tense situation prevailed at Sreekaryam too, police said the murder site was not affected by clashes. Also, CPM’s town branch secretary Tomy Antony’s residence in Kattakada was attacked on Friday night. At Venganoor,   Prathapan’s residence was attacked. 
 
