NEW DELHI: Even as the remaining clearances to the Centre’s ambitious Ken-Betwa river linking project are just a procedural formality, official announcement of its launch date may hit the Election Commission wall once a model code of conduct comes into force after declaration of Assembly poll schedule for Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. 

 Though the water resources ministry wanted the foundation of the project to be laid before announcement of the poll schedule, the required processes to be followed for mandatory clearances marred its chances of being launched on time billing it as a new year gift to the people of parched Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh and  .
 
 The project will transfer surplus water from the   to the Betwa basin through a 221-km canal. It will provide irrigation to an area of 6,35,661 hectares in Chhattarpur, Tikamgarh and Panna districts of MP and Mahoba, Banda and Jhansi districts of UP.
 
 It has already got its clearance from the National Board for Wildlife ( ). Similarly, the tribal affairs ministry gave its nod to it on Monday while the Environmental Appraisal Committee had agreed for the project in its meeting last week. “The water resources ministry has provided additional required information to the   of the environment ministry and the forest clearance is now a mere formality”, said an official.
 
 Since funding pattern of the project is also yet to be decided, the Union water resources minister   had last week met the   vice chairman Arvind Panagariya. She sought his intervention to speed up the process so that the project is to be funded under 90:10 pattern where the Centre will bear 90% of its cost while the remaining 10% is to be borne by the states - Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The ministry has proposed that the project should either be fully funded (100%) by the Centre or to follow the 90:10 funding pattern, but the NITI Aayog wants the central assistance should be under Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP) having provision of 60:40 centre state sharing.
 
 The NITI Aayog is learnt to have taken a view that putting the Ken-Betwa project under 90:10 pattern would open a Pandora’s box as many states would start demanding the similar funding patter for all undergoing irrigation projects across the country under the ‘Pradhan Mantri KrishiSinchayee Yojana’ (AIBP).
 
 The project, whose cost may eventually reach to around Rs18,000 crore, is expected to be completed in seven years once work on it is launched this year. A final call on its funding pattern will be taken by the finance ministry which may earmark fund for the project in the forthcoming budget for the 2017-18 financial year.
 
 Once completed, the project will also provide 49 million cubic meter (MCM) of drinking water to population of 13.42 lakh of UP and MP. It will also generate 78 MW of power.
 
 
