GURUGRAM: At 29,   is probably the youngest deputy commissioner to be posted in  , where seasoned bureaucrats usually get posted. Having worked here for over two and a half years, Singh is well aware of what this city requires, and promises to look into these issues immediately.

 “There are a couple of things that perhaps I could not accomplish in my previous role as additional deputy commissioner, which I’m now hopeful of achieving in my new role. One of them is to have   system across Gurgaon. The government has already announced a subsidy on it, but many don’t seem to be aware of it. We’ll hand-hold potential customers to ensure ease of executing this project,” said Singh, who spent most of his first day on job accepting congratulatory messages.
 
 “The other immediate focus area is to minimize effects of   and malaria, especially during monsoons. We’ll soon start geo-tagging patients and will analyse data real-time to find out, among other specific details, which areas are susceptible, and accordingly take necessary action. Other focus areas would be sanitation, stray cattle and finishing all ongoing projects on the highway at the earliest,” he said.
 
 While his posting was not entirely unexpected, Singh said it came as a surprise. 
 
 “It’s a very big responsibility and shows the faith the state government has reposed on me. In the past six years, the city’s population has grown from 15 lakh to 25 lakh, and expectations are rising. The advantage of knowing this city well is I can hit the ground running. It helps as I’ve worked with most officials here,” says the 2011 batch  . His wife, too, is posted in Gurgaon as a joint commissioner in Central GST.
 
 The district administration, which does not have a presence on  , is likely to get active with Singh taking charge. 
 
 “It’s important to have our presence on social media. Within a months’ time, we’ll be on Twitter and also have a Facebook page. I’d like to receive feedback and suggestions from the public.”
 
 Hailing from Faridabad, Singh did engineering from BITS Pilani before appearing for the civil service exam, and cracked it in the first attempt. “I wanted to become an IAS officer, as it gives you an opportunity to bring about change. This city has good intellectual capital, and given a platform, they are willing to contribute towards governance and betterment of the city, which is the face of Haryana. I’ll channelise civil society, RWAs, NGOs, corporates to execute projects and plug social and infrastructural gaps,” he said. 
 
 He also announced that a consortium will be formed of RWAs, citizen groups and corporate houses, which will work for social and futuristic projects with the help of CSR.
 
 
