CHENNAI: The extension of the Supreme Court's liquor ban along highways to cover hotels and bars on Saturday forced shut more than 100 bars attached to hotels and some century-old clubs in Chennai.All of them are within 500 m of Anna Salai,   Road, 100 feet Road, IT Corridor or   which are designated highways.

 “It is a big blow,“ said South Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association secretary T Nataraajan about the apex court bringing hotels and bars under the ruling. According to him, each of the 25 star-category hotels located between Guindy and Chengalpet on GST Road would lose up to Rs4 lakh per day.
 
 Equally upset are Britishera Gymkhana, Cosmopolitan and   over being ordered to go dry because their premises fell within 500m of Anna Salai.The clubs sent messages and mails to members informing them about the restriction.
 
 The SC order also effectively shuts down 2,700   outlets. If the ban stays, Tamil Nadu, which collected more than Rs26,000 crore through liquor sales in Tasmac outlets in 2015-16, could face Rs4,500 crore to Rs10,000 crore revenue loss.Over the last year, the number of Tasmac outlets has come down from 6,800 to 5,600, and the SC order will bring it down by half.
 
 (With inputs from B Sivakumar) Vivek Karunakaran was hosting a fashion show at Hyatt Regency on Anna Salai on Friday night. At the strike of midnight, the hotel announced that the party was over, there would be no more alcohol served.
 
 “It brought down everyone's spirits and, well, the after party fizzled out,“ said Karunakaran.Disappointed guests began mapping out hotels that fell outside the purview of the highways and rushed there for a night cap.“It was a mad rush of cars clearing out of Hyatt and rushing to find the closest non-highway hotel,“ said a guest.
 
 Hyatt was but one of the 100odd places that had to go dry after the Supreme Court extended the ban on liquor vends within 500m of national highways and state highways to cover hotels and bars from April 1. Also hit were some of Chennai's oldest clubs and bars on the arterial Anna Salai. These were forced to down their shutters.
 
  secretary T Nataraajan said each of 25 star category hotels situated between Guindy and Chengalpet on GST Road would lose up to Rs4 lakh per day . “There are approximately 40 star category hotels on ECR between Chennai and villages bordering Puducherry in Villupuram district, and 35 hotels in the category of three to five star on IT corridor. All these hotels will lose at least Rs2 lakh every day because of the bars shutting down,“ he added.
 
 Nearly 100 star category ho tels ranging from two to five star deluxe on GST Road, ECR and IT corridor in and around the city downed shutters of their bars, hoteliers said. Apart from hotels like  , Hyatt Regency , and Raintree which dot Anna Salai, two of the city's oldest clubs ­ Madras Gymkhana and Cosmopolitan Club were also forced to go dry.
 
 On Saturday morning, members of the 140-year-old Cosmo politan club received text messages and emails that the club was closing down its bar. The management of both clubs said it is going to hit revenue. Office bearers of  , another century-old club in the city said they have temporarily closed the bar, but have referred the matter to their lawyers as the premises is not on a highway , but by the side of it.
 
 District authorities and ex cise department gave oral in structions to close the bars ime mediately during the weekend (Saturday and Sunday). Staff at some hotels said the manage, ment was busy firefighting an gry clients who wanted to cancel events because they can no longer serve liquor.s Meanwhile, pubs on the in, ner roads of the city are doing extra business. Pub consultant Dennis Arasu, who co-owns and manages several pubs in the city , said: “None of my pubs are on Anna Salai, so we're not losing business, just gaining some.“
 
 Tasmac sources said about 70 wine shops falling within the radius of 500m from state highways in Chennai were shut on Saturday. In Tiruvallur district, 168 shops were closed, while across the state approximately 2,700 of the total 5,672 wine shops have downed shutters.
 
