CHANDIGARH:   on Monday took strong note of the incident in which stones were hurled at the cavalcade of SAD president and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal during campaigning and said such incidents will not be allowed to happen again in the  .

 “It will not be tolerated and will not be allowed to happen. Appropriate action will be taken in connection with this incident,“ Singh said here while addressing media.
 
 Besides,   said adequate security will be provided to VVIPs in the coming polls. The CEO was asked to respond on the incident in which stones were hurled at  .
 
 Singh appealed to voters to maintain peace and avoid indulging in such incidents in future. “In somebody is angry, then he should express his emotions by pressing button of EVM during elections,“ he quipped, adding throwing stones was not acceptable.
 
 Four Akali supporters were injured and a police vehicle was damaged when a group of people threw stones at the cavalcade of   at Kandhwala Hazir Khan village in his constituency, Jalalabad in Fazilka district on Sunday. Sukhbir escaped unhurt in the attack.
 
 Singh also appealed to political parties not to instigate voters. SAD had blamed Aam Aadmi Party for instigating people against Akalis.
 
 Meanwhile, Punjab additional director general of police(ADGP) V K Bhawra said one person identified as Harpreet Singh has been arrested in this connection while remaining accused were yet to be identified.
 
 Check black money, EC asks observers
 
 The Election Commission on Monday asked 200 expenditure observers, deployed exclusively to check black money and other illegal inducements during the forthcoming polls in five states, to keep a strict vigil on these instances and ensure a level playing field for all. The direction came after a meeting of the EC. The CEC asked the observers, drawn from various Central services like the Indian Revenue Service and the Indian Audit and Account Service among others, to ensure that the guidelines framed by the poll panel are adhered to.
 
