NOIDA: Noida Authority on Thursday has clarified that the animal shelter—being run by it in sector 94—has spent more than Rs 16 lakhs every month since they took over its reins in June this year. This includes Rs 5.5 lakhs as expenses of running the shelter and about Rs 6.5 lakhs as salaries dispensed to staff every month. Noida Authority's Chairperson and CEO ( )   also conducted a detailed inspection of the shelter on Wednesday to take stock and to ensure the animals at the shelter are being well looked after. 

 According to Noida Authority officials, the surprise inspection was carried out by the CCEO taking cognizance of media reports that the shelter was in shambles and need of urgent attention by the authorities. TOI had carried a report on September 27 highlighting that the city’s lone shelter for stray, injured, abused and sick animals in Noida was rundown and overcrowded.
 
 Speaking to TOI, R.K Mishra, Additional CEO (ACEO), Noida Authority said that since they took over the operations and management of the shelter, they have been working on improving conditions at the shelter. “There is no deficiency of medicines or food for the inmates of the shelter. We have also paid those employed at the shelter their salaries unlike what has been reported,” Mishra said. “Even now we have a balance of Rs 20 lakhs in the bank for the shelter’s use. A vet deputed by the district magistrate will soon start providing services at the shelter. We have also appointed an agency to carry out the birth control procedure to control the population of stray dogs,” he said. “Some infrastructure facilities and repairs, which need to be carried out at the shelter will be undertaken soon,” he said. “The aim is to make a state-of-art facility,” he added.
 
 Run by the   against Animals ( ), till June 2017, its reins have been taken over by the Noida Authority on the directions of the   from July 1, 2017. Presently, the 24x7 shelter houses about 1,000 animals including stray dogs, monkeys, cows, calves, donkeys, horses, buffalo and pigeons.
 
