HYDERABAD: The TRS government is all set to present a first of its kind budget that aims to reach out to the most backward classes in society.“This year's budget will address the grievances of the last man in Telangana,“ announced finance minister  . In an exclusive interview to TOI on Tuesday, he minister said the poorest of the poor who never received any benefit from the government in the last six decades will be the priority in the budget.

 Banking on good revenues and higher share from the central tax devolution, Telangana is likely to see a re cord Rs 1.5 lakh crore budget for the 2017-18 financial year. Keeping its financial discipline intact, it is going to present a surplus budget for the third year in succession.
 
 “Both revenue and fiscal deficits are under control and we are expecting   from the Centre in the backdrop of Union finance minister  's disclosure that there is a 23 per cent increase in the overall tax collections. Of this, Telangana will get 2.48 per cent share,“ said Etala. The minister said that on the whole, more than 9,000 people were consulted before deciding on the priori ties of the government. “Our CM has been consulting representatives of different sections including Brahmins, weavers, shepherds, fishermen, goldsmiths, etc., every day . He is spending more than 14 hours a day to listen to their plight and trying to find solutions to improve their living standards. With his interactions and feedback, he gave us a blueprint which will work as aguiding force for the ensuing budget,“ said the finance minister. He said proposals like pension for single women, free sheep for shepherds, fish ponds for fishermen and washing machines for washer men have come up in the deliberations. “For the first time, people have participated in the budget process which till date was limited only to the finance department.   has made budget a people's issue,“ said Etala. He said the state budget has already taken into account the impact of demonetisation, GST and other factors. “The adverse impact of demonetisation was limited to stamps and registrations which saw some decline. But then, it will get compensated through increased tax devolutions from the Centre,“ said FM. Responding to a question on austerity, he said some departments have been asked to prune spending.
 
 “This is also another achievement of the CM who examined the rationality behind spending of each department and decided to merge some to cut expenditure. After all, this is public money , we are only its trustees,“ said Etala.
 
