Trichy: A special team of the Trichy city police on Thursday arrested four persons from New Delhi in connection with several cases of phishing that targeted city residents. It was the first such arrest related to online fraud after a special police team for securing cybercrime money phishing offenders was formed.

 Commissioner of police A   said the team arrested G Vadivel; Murari, alias Sitheshkumar, 23, from   in Delhi; Ganesh, 20, from   in Delhi; and Arun Murugan, 33, from Indarpuri in Delhi. Vadivel is a native of Salem district.
 
 Arun told reporters on Thursday that the special team arrested four persons, brought them to Trichy and produced them in court.
 
 The CoP had formed the team comprising inspectors Kodilingam, Sahaya Anbarasu, special sub-inspector Sivasubramanian, head constables Gnanasekaran and   and constable Saravanan a month ago after the cyber crime wing of the city police received complaints from city residents that they were cheated of money from their bank accounts after personal information such as ATM card numbers and passwords of the account holders were obtained over the phone.
 
 The commissioner said the cybercrime wing of the city police received 12 complaints in the past 10 months. A total of 12 cases involved cheating to the tune of Rs2.16 lakh. The arrested four persons were involved in six cases.
 
 The modus-operandi of the accused was that they would randomly call up people and introduce themselves as bank employees. They would offer customers a premium ATM card instead of their existing one or they would lure them with the bait of a lucky draw cash reward in several lakhs for their mobile number. The customers would also part with valuable details only to see the money in their bank accounts debited the next minute.
 
 After they received the complaints, police were unable to nab the fraudsters as they were based in several parts of Delhi. Hence the special team was formed and sent to Delhi a month ago. The team closely watched the fraudsters with information obtained through the cyber cell.
 
 “We will ask for their custody so that we can find out if they are part of a network of fraudsters,“ said Arun.
 
