BENGALURU: Three hours a day, is the mantra Shrinidhi PG followed on the road to becoming the Commerce stream topper in this year’s PU exams. Securing the first rank across Karnataka, Shrinidhi, a student of  , scored 595 out of 600 and a centum in Business Studies and Mathematics.

 Attributing the success to encouragement by her institution, she said, “I was a last bench student and enjoyed my college days but that didn’t stop me from topping the state! My advice to juniors: Don't burden yourself; studying three hours a day is more than enough and don’t forget to enjoy,” laughs Srinidhi, adding that she would like to become an economics analyst.
 
 Staying away from electronic gadgets helped Srujana N, a student of Expert PU College, Tumakuru, secured first rank in Science stream. “There were many competitors in my class. I never expected the top rank. I was a hosteller where I was quite hooked to electronic gadgets. But later, I realized that I have to avoid these and started preparing seriously for my exams.”
 
 A girl who believes in success through hard work and constant revision, she said that she wants to be a software engineer.
 
 “Honestly, I didn't expect this!” said Charithra Ajay Nayak, who was in Mumbai when the results were announced and had no clue that she was one of the state toppers. An Arts student from Christ Junior College, she said, “Working hard and being present in class was the key; I least expected to score 100 in sociology. Exams at college trained us to answer questions one level higher, so the final exam was a cake walk.”
 
 Charithra wants to become an HR manager or welfare officer, and her subject of interest is consumer psychology -- a blend of her favourite subjects, economics and psychology. “With the college encouraging various co-curricular activities, I took part in many street plays and other events, and balancing work and play was quite easy with teachers and family supporting me,” she said, adding that she would like to pursue a triple-major degree in psychology, sociology and economics at Christ University.
 
 Pooja Murali, who scored a centum in her favourite subject, accountancy, said love for the subject and constant support from teachers helped her bag the top rank. “I used to concentrate in class and just revised the same thing at home. I would spend around four hours a day on studies. Dance was a stress-buster for me,” said the aspiring chartered accountant.
 
 “I knew I did well but, I didn't know how well,” said Sahana N, a Science student who scored a whopping 594 out of 600. “A few months before exams started, I started studying for eight hours a day. I am happy about my result and thank Deeksha PU College for training me so well,” she said, adding that she would like to pursue pure science, and specialize in physics. She also plays the veena and likes to play badminton and basketball.
 
 Having scored 100 in all her core subjects -- accountancy, business studies, mathematics and statistics, Rakshita Pattankar, a student from RNS PU College, said that she studied only two hours every day and that the papers were not difficult. “I want to become a chartered accountant and I attended coaching classes at Yashas Academy. I am preparing for my exam on June 18,” she said. Rakshita likes dancing and used to go for Bharatanatyam classes but stopped after class 10 to focus more on studies.
 
 
