The   is in possession of   of corruption in various  . The clips were submitted by a person who was not allowed to meet his relative lodged in   until he paid a   Taken aback by the demand for the bribe, science student Amit Mishra said that he started recording specific instances of venality in Thane Jail, Taloja Jail, Arthur Road Jail and Kalyan Jail.

 "I was turned away by the authorities when I complained against an officer at Thane Jail. No one believed me at the time, and instead I was booked under the Atrocity Act for complaining against the said officer. That is when I decided to expose the rackets that are being run across various jails," Mishra said.
 
 His video clips, he said, contain conversations between him and jail staff and also show money changing hands. Mishra said he would befriend families who would visit the jail to meet their relatives, and coaxed them to help him carry out his expose.
 
 Mishra, who started working on his sting operation two months ago, started with Thane Jail. About a month ago, he approached a constable at the jail, and asked him to arrange a meeting with a 'friend' who was imprisoned at the jail.
 
 Mishra told the constable that he wanted to sign documents concerning his bail application. In the video the constable is seen asking him to pay Rs 2,000 to get the document signed. When Mishra pays up, he is taken to a section of the jail where inmates meet their families.
 
 The video shows another constable coming up to Mishra, and demanding a further Rs 3,000 from him to arrange the meeting with his 'friend'.
 
 Officials of the respective jails could not be reached for a comment. 
 
 Kalyan Jail 
 At Kalyan Jail, officials demanded a bribe of Rs 2,00,000 when Mishra approached them to hospitalise his 'friend' and inmate Lalchand Yadav. According to Mishra, they told him that he could even get his 'friend's' barrack changed if he paid a little more.
 
 Arthur Road Jail
 Inspector Ambadass Patil is seen demanding Rs 2,00,000 for getting an inmate admitted to hospital. Patil also tells Mishra that the money will be distributed and who among the jail staffers, from the constabulary to the jail superintendent, will get how much.
 
 Taloja Jail
 Amit approached the authorities claiming to be inmate Jayant Kamble's friend. A lady constable directs him inside and speaks to another constable, asking him to arrange the meeting. Mishra informs them that this is his second visit to the jail, and he would be willing to pay money to meet his 'friend'. The male constable agrees to his demand and says that the rate starts from Rs 2,000 onward. Edited transcripts of Mishra's conversations with jail officials in Thane, Taloja, Kalyan and at Arthur Road Jail.
 
 Arthur roads jail (conversation one)
 Mishra: Sachin Margal is my friend. I want to meet him. I will do the needful.
 Constable: Wait outside. I will come to you. I have already spoken to sir.Mishra is asked to meet a senior office after about five minutes.
 API Patil: Come inside
 Mishra: How much?
 Patil: Rs 5,000 for the meeting.
 Mishra: Sir, please take Rs 4,000. I don't have that much cash.
 Patil: What yaar, no bargaining.
 Mishra: Wait, let me count...3000...3500. Here, take this.
 Patil: Give Rs 500 more 
 Mishra: Sir, we have to get him admitted into the hospital
 Patil: It will be done.
 Mishra: How much ?
 Patil: Rs 23,000 
 Mishra: How much should I pay now ? It has to be done tomorrow.
 Patil: Pay Rs 5000 now
 Mishra: I will have to withdraw from ATM. I will come back. Wait.
 Patil: But I want the rest of the amount today itself.
 
 Thane Jail
 Mishra: Sir, mulaqaat karke do (please arrange a meeting with him). I want to speak to him about his bail.
 Constable: It will take Rs 5,000. And, make it quick. There is a lot of rush today.
 Mishra: Please make it fast. We have to leave.
 Constable: It will be done. But there is a madam inside. Don't say anything in front of her. I will do the rest. He is your friend, na?
 What are you meeting him as?
 Mishra: I have told the cops that I am his brother.
 Constable: Hope you have told him the same surname.
 Mishra: Yes. But what if they check my ID card?
 Constable: No, they won't. I will take care of that.
 
