Hollywood actress Charlize Theron’s latest movie Atomic Blonde has her playing a badass assassin who takes down evil men with precise kicks, chops and deadly locks, thanks to her training in   such as   and  . The day is not far off when   girls too display a mean kick and a devlish punch when needed, as many of them are hooked to combat sports.
 
 It’s not the usual Karate, Kung Fu and   that have caught their fancy but Uzbekistan’s  , Thailand’s Muay Thai and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Girls as young as seven to women in their late 50s have been enrolling in these classes, say martial arts trainers around the State.
  
 For the uninitiated, Kurash is an oldest martial art form from Uzbekistan that focuses on throwing techniques while Brazilian Jiu Jutsu is a combat sport that involves grappling, choking and ground fighting. Muay Thai meanwhile focuses on kicks and punches, while standing up.
  
 
 
 Most women take up these combat sports initially as a form of self-defence. Shreya Nair, a 20-year-old college student from Kochi, has been training in Jiu Jutsu and Kurash for the past one year and has also been a regular participant in national and international competitions. “These aren’t just about fighting or defence. During a Kurash bout, you are actually thinking five steps ahead about your opponents’ moves. In real life too, that just makes us more alert when we are in a vulnerable position,” she says.
  
 Shreya explains that learning such techniques is vital in these times when crimes against women are increasing. “Most girls think that kicking a guy in the groin is sometimes the only technique required. But that’s not true because men’s reflex action is to defend that area. You have to be quick and know other techniques to take them down,” she says.
  
 For Lekshmy TR, a 22-year-old graduate from Thiruvananthapuram, learning Muay Thai has been life-changing. “Mainly because you are practising with men and you know their strengths and weaknesses. That also makes you realise that you are not much different from them and if you push yourself you can beat them. That’s a big confidence booster inside and outside the ring,” says Lekshmy, who is the South Indian Muay Thai champion in the 48kg category.
  
 
 Unlike the other martial arts, those who opt for these new forms have often got their eye on championships. Kochi-based Kurash and Jiu Jitsu trainer Rajan Varghese says, “The youth who join these classes are more interested in taking it seriously as a sport and participating in competitions.” In fact, for the upcoming Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games in Turkmenistan, out of the six Kurash contestants from  , four are women, he says.
 Another Kochi-based Jiu Jitsu trainer Anie Jobina says that those who join the classes initially for fitness reasons too soon get interested in competitions.
  
 “The first few classes we teach them how to fall,” she says. “After falling 100 times, your body becomes stiff enough and that wards off the fear of injury.” In her classes, there are women in their late 40s and they too are keen to participate in bouts. “Once they see how others are easily taking down their opponents, that rubs off on the hesitant lot as well,” says Anie, who also works as a gym coach.
  
 Meanwhile, Muay Thai does get its fair share of fitness enthusiasts. Binu Joseph, president of Kerala Muay Thai Association, says that the martial arts has only picked up in some places in Kerala. “In Malappuram, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Thiruvanathapuram, almost all the participants are serious about taking it as a competition sport. However, in Kochi, those above 30 years of age take it up to improve their fitness as it involves high intensity interval training and a lot of core workouts as your entire body is used to kick and punch,” he says.
  
 
 
 Another reason why many women are taking up Jiu Jutsu and Muay Thai are because of the appeal of mixed martial arts (MMA) that is becoming popular, say martial arts experts.
  
 Rajan says, “To train and compete in MMA, it’s necessary to learn the basics of Muay Thai, Jiu Jutsu as well as Kurash because it involves both defence, offence and submission tactics.”
  
 Leksmy too agrees that she’s been inspired by mixed martial arts to take up Muay Thai. Ask her about the chances of injury and she says, “We train with head gear, guards, gloves and teeth guard. Also, we enter competitions only after a year of training, by when our bodies are flexible and not injury prone.”
  
 
 
 While self-defence and fitness are the ultimate benefits, trainer Anie says, it also helps shape a woman’s personality. “I know many women who took up the sport to bust some steam because they had anger issues. But over time, they became calm and composed,” she says. “Also, these martial arts are good for back problems as they help strengthen the core and make your body flexible.”
  
 Meanwhile, Muay Thai trainer Joshy Johny says that five-year-old girls have also been enrolled by parents. “They believe it helps the child develop self-confidence, and growing up they could also decide to take it as a serious sport. Muay Thai and Jiu Jitsu have a massive following abroad and in a few decades, there would be tournaments held in India as well.”
 
