CHITTORGARH: Amidst the debate over the   and Allauddin Khilji saga, Chittorgarh’s Jahaur Smriti Sansthan is documenting its research and historical evidence in an attempt to `rectify’ Rani Padmini’s portrayal in the history books.

 ``There should be little doubt about the existence of the Rani Padmini but there is no evidence about Khilji attacking Chittorgarh to conquer her. There is no evidence to the entire episode of Khilji being shown the reflection of Padmini - either in a mirror or water. That is the imagination of Malik Mohammad Jayasi as penned in his book ‘Padmawat’. However, historical evidences claim that while Khilji attacked Chittor, the queen was forced to perform `jahaur’ - she was not the reason Khilji attacked,’’ said Lokendra Singh Chundawat, spokesperson of sansthan.
 
 The sansthan now plans to presents the documents to the state and the Centre and plead them to make the necessary changes in history textbooks. ``The present portrayal of Rani Padmini and Khilji attacking Chittorgarh to win her is inspired from Malik Mohammad Jayasi’s work, which was written during the reign of Sher Shah Suri in 1540, almost 237 years after the said-event. Her portrayal needs to be reworked upon to bring an end to this Khilji-Padmini saga,’’ he said. 
 
 Jayasi’s work also formed the base for Col James Todd book “Annals and antiquities of Rajasthan’ (1829), which spread the story in the literary circles around the world. 
 
 The Jahaur Smriti Sansthan, a research and social group, came into existence in 1950 with an aim to revive the lost pride of Mewar rulers. The members have been collecting, interpreting and documenting historical evidences ever since. It’s members include academicians, researchers, members of the erstwhile royal family and thinkers. They have been raising the issue of smuggling of artefacts from the fort. Every year they organise a Jahaur procession in honour of three jahaurs held in Chittaurgarh fort, including the one involving Padmini.
 
 ``There should be little doubt about the existence of the queen. Rani Padmini and her husband   find a mention in the manuscripts dating back to early 14th century. However, there is no mention of Alauddin Khilji wanting to see the beautiful Rani Padmini. The attack was part of Khilji‘s seize ,’’ said the spokesperson. Similar claims were drawn from the Jain texts between 14th and 16th century---Nabinandan Jenudhar, Chitai Charitra and Rayan Sehra.
 
 The claim that Khilji was induced by the beauty also stands weak as Amir Khusro the official writer of the Khilji’s court in his book ‘Khazanal Futhu’ talked in detail about the expedition of Mewar, seize and Jahaur but no word on Padmini. ``This indicates that we have been feeding a fictional story,” he added.
 
 The sansthan rubbishes the popular theory of Rani Padmini‘s reflection being shown to the Delhi ruler through a mirror placed at   in 1303. Local historians say that no link has been established between Rawal Ratan Singh and China, which was the only country where mirrors were found during that time. There is also no evidence about the king going to Singhal Island (present dat Sri Lanka) via sea route and winning her in a `swayamvar‘ after spending 8 years as a yogi. ``This is the imaginary tale and part of the poem. According to our research, Padmini belonged to a clan from a place called `Pongul‘ located between Jaisalmer and Bikaner. Ratanji ruled for little over a year and it is not possible for him to go to Srilanka,’’ he said.
 
 The reality of Jahaur (self immolation) and Saka (final offensive) has been proven by several accounts. Both Khusro’s book and Chitai Charitra defines that immolation by women did take place inside the palace by women, elderly, children and even disables.
 
 A video uploaded to the official YouTube channel of NCERT on May 26, 2016 has a popular narrative that Khilji saw Rani Padmini in the mirror in a 15.03 minute video. The commentary between 4.23 –5:13 minutes narrates the entire mirror episode. Even several books in Rajasthan has the same narration of the event.
 
 
