GURUGRAM: In the Class X Haryana board examinations currently underway, there are reports of   by students of government schools across Gurgaon. This, despite the   claiming it had tightened its noose around the perennial problem, having declared Section 144 CrPC around all exam centres in Gurgaon.

 On Tuesday, when the examination for the Science paper was held, reports of copying came from Government Girls Higher Secondary School (GGHSS) Badshapur, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Chakkarpur, GSSS Daultabad and Government School Darbaripur.
 
 There were eyewitness reports of students and intruders jumping over school walls, carrying books and chits of paper, which they passed on to students through exam-hall windows. And all this, right in front of the police stationed at GGHSS Badshapur.
 
 “Outsiders were coming and going without any fear of police or authorities,” said Yadav, a staff of GGHSS Badshapur, who was willing to reveal only his last name. 
 
 Near GSSS Daulatabad, a vendor offered photostat services where lots of youths got copies of entire chapters of books made, to be passed on to students inside the exam halls.
 
 “Science is tough,” said an eyewitnesses. “Police and authorities should have anticipated something like this, which is anyway happening on every exam day.”
 
 The principal of GGHSS Badshapur told TOI cited her helplessness in the face of the angry mob which broke open gates and stormed the schools. “At least, we have kept the situation under control here,” said Firdous Khan, the principal. “We have two policemen guarding the premises. But there's no boundary wall on the rear side of the school, which is a problem. This is from where outsiders are entering the school.” Khan though maintained that no cheating was taking place. “I maintain a strict vigil. I'm also making rounds throughout the exam centre. Whoever enters the school, we whisk him out.”
 
 Principal of GSSS Chakkarpur Ansu Singla also denied reports of cheating. “There was no cheating today,” she said. “A team from the Haryana board was at the school for about an hour. A Haryana Police flying squad also visited.”
 
 When TOI produced pictures of students inside the school premises, passing answers in chits of paper through windows, Singla said it must be some other building. “We have another building. It's not hosting any exam centre, but is lying vacant. Outsiders may have gathered there. But at the exam centre, security is available and we have successfully kept miscreants at bay.”
 
 Police also denied reports of cheating, stating they were making patrols. 
 
 Neelam Bhandari, district education officer, Gurgaon, though, acknowledged the problem. She told TOI stopping a mob storming into a school was beyond her brief. “I’m going to report the issue to the police and deputy commissioner.”
 
 
