NEW DELHI: A cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, cleared the proposal to double the honorarium of   and helpers. A decision was taken to raise the allowances of the workers and helpers to Rs 10,178 and Rs 5,089, respectively.

 The proposal will now be sent to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for approval. Once approved, Delhi government will notify it for implementation. The government has also decided to pay Rs 500 to workers and Rs 250 to helpers per month as mobile/internet charges in addition to the honorarium.
 
 According to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the decision is expected to benefit around 21,000   staff. “When we carried out inspections of anganwadis, one of the problems that came to the fore was that the honorarium the workers and helpers get is very less. If we want them to work on the development of 20-25 small children, we need to ensure dignified wages for them, to begin with,” Sisodia said after the cabinet meeting. 
 
 The allowance of the workers has been hiked from Rs 5,000 to Rs 9,678 per month. In the hiked honorarium, the central government’s share remains the same, at Rs 1,800 per month, while Delhi government’s share will increase from Rs 3,200 to Rs 7,878 per month.
 
 Similarly, the allowance of the helpers has been raised from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,839 per month. While there is no change in the central government’s share in the hiked honorarium—Rs 900 per month, the Delhi government’s contribution will rise from Rs 1,600 to Rs 3,939 per month.
 
 The decision on salary   comes in the wake of several inspections made at anganwadi centres to assess their conditions and operational issues by Sisodia. Kejriwal also met anganwadi workers and helpers in batches at his residence. They had raised the issue of allowance and mobile/internet charges in their meeting with the chief minister, apart from other demands.
 
 The deputy CM, who also holds the women and child development portfolio, has sought a report on the state of anganwadis to take measures to improve their conditions. The salary hike is seen as a move to bolster services by giving anganwadi workers  , which will give them dignity and motivate them to cater to the development needs of children in the 0-6 age-group and lactating mothers.
 
 
