HYDERABAD: Even as   (OGH) doctors boycotted electives and outpatient duties and only attended to emergency services, at least two patients had succumbed to their illnesses at the hospital by Monday afternoon. 

 Many attendants complained about patients not being attended to since Sunday night. One patient, A  , who was admitted at 6 pm on Sunday, just hours before the incident, breathed her last on Monday afternoon.
 
 "We brought her here after she complained of breathing trouble yesterday but was otherwise fine. This morning she had snacks but around afternoon she suddenly started gasping for breath and then fell still. No doctor came to even check on her," said  , grand-daughter of the patient, adding that had they admitted her to some other hospital she may have been alive.
 
 Another 55-year-old patient Narasimha, who was admitted two days ago, too passed away on Monday. His attendants alleged he had died due to lack of medical attention. "We did not have enough money to take him to a private hospital and hence came here. But not a single doctor examined my father since Sunday night," said N Srinivas, who was found wailing outside the ICU .
 
 The strike also left the incoming patients uneasy. Insiders said that though emergency services were not boycotted officially, patients were being sent away.
 
 Syed Abdul Karim, a 67-year-old man suffering from a paralytic stroke, was refused treatment and redirected to Princess Esra Hospital. "We are from a middle class family and have already spent 15,000 on travelling from one hospital to another," lamented his distressed daughter-in-law. 
 
 Another 14-year-old kid  , who was rushed to the hospital from Jeedimetla on Monday morning after he developed appendicitis related complications, too suffered for want of medical attention.
 
 "My son has been vomiting repeatedly since morning. We travelled for nearly two hours to reach here but now we have been told that there are no doctors. We don't have the means to take him to a private hospital and don't know what to do," said his teary-eyed mother, Khairunissa.
 
 The plight of patients doesn't end here. A paralyzed female patient, who was wheeled into the hospital by her handicapped attendant, was redirected to a nearby hospital after a long wait, eyewitnesses said. While most wards in the hospital remained unattended, a few had just one nurse overseeing around 50 patients. The emergency ward too wore a deserted look perhaps as word of the strike spread, despite doctors attending to emergency cases.
 
