HYDERABAD: Does   do drugs for creative juices to flow? Possibly. Another reason why one is driven to drugs is because of the harsh reality that takes heroes nowhere after experiencing initial success.

 That Tollywood does have a running affair with drugs is known, but the latest episode in which excise officials have launched a crackdown has rattled the Rs 1,500-cr Telugu film industry.
 
 Now, the challenge before Now, the challenge before the film industry is not about saving the disgraced, but saving its own drug-smeared face because of acts of some individuals.
 
 “There are numerous examples of   stars being involved in drugs. It is shocking. When it comes to their performances on screen, they excel. But such persons cannot be taken as examples even if one were to believe that drugs give that creative kick,“ said producer D Suresh Babu.
 
 It's interesting to note  , story writers and directors engage in what are called `sittings'. They literally lock themselves up in a room to come up with the most creative story. Liquor flow, though not necessarily drugs.
 
 With drugs being the hot topic and many artistes coming out and claiming inno cence or denying they received notices, director Puri Jagannadh broke his silence on Saturday.
 
 In a tweet, the director said: “I have not given away statement regarding anything and (to) anyone till now (sic).Very busy completing my film `Paisa Vasool'.
 
 Until recently, Puri and his team, including hero   were shooting in   and returned to complete the rest of the film.In any case, with film indust ry's image taking a beating, it is now looking at giving itself an image makeover.
 
 Script writers are wracking their brains to come up with a 'blockbuster' of a script for a big screen promo in which the all big stars will share screen space to tell audiences that it is not cool to do drugs. The 30-60 seconds promo will be screened in all theatres.
 
 The film industry is also taking responsibility for the society in general to inform them and urge students and citizens across professions to shun drugs.
 
 With several Tollywood actors slapped with notices by excise department, the film industry has found itself in a bind. While it cannot go to the rescue of those involved or defend anyone who is named, it also does not want the entire film industry to be affected because of a few.
 
 “The law enforcement authorities will investigate and decide who is involved and who is not. We do accept possibility of some being involved, but we cannot say for sure,“ Telugu film chamber of commerce president D Suresh Babu said.
 
 A short film contest will also be organized by the film industry in which people can participate. These short films will explore why one takes drugs and how one can get out of it. These will be telecast on television channels.
 
