The newly elected   mayor   presents a picture of poise as she deftly balances the flurry of compliments on her new achievement and attends to the guests streaming in at her modest home in Chitalsar since Monday morning. Barely getting time amid her hectic victory rallies after she was elevated as the first citizen of the lake city in the 2017 elections, she shares her vision for the development of the city during her tenure.

 The 40-year-old   said that she had never expected to win the post ever since she started participating in the party activities, along with her husband Rajendra who is also a party activist since 1995. She fought her first civic elections in 2007 and won by a comfortable majority. Since then she managed to retain the Manpada seat with the party earning accolades from party seniors. 
 
 Born in a South Indian Poojary family with roots in Surathkal near Mangalore, Shinde deftly managed to learn Marathi while playing along with her friends in her dominantly Maharashtrian maternal residence in Manpada village. Her modest upbringing has helped her to easily understand the problems of her area that comprises of a mix of slums and high-rises with equal intensity. Meena mai or akka as she is fondly referred to by locals, she is always at their beck and call which reflects in her popularity in the area, say her peers. 
 
 A mother to two daughters, Alisha (20) and Nupur (15), Shinde has been deftly managing her time as a housewife and a corporator. There have been times when she has had to rush out at odd hours to attend to some problems in the locality but that hasn’t deterred her a bit. “She has always been a pillar of strength to the local residents who look up to her during times of crisis but this hasn’t affected her responsibility at home,” says husband Rajendra. 
 
 As the pressure of the new responsibility sinks in, Shinde who has had a remarkable stint chairing few important posts in the past, said she wants the city to develop in the coming days. “I will focus towards improving the water management, along with giving impetus on education in civic schools. I also want to start English-speaking classes and technology sessions for women from lower middle class families,” she said.
 
 
