INDORE: The   has disposed of a special leave petition filed by Mhow MLA   in which he had challenged the order of MP high court that had asked for initiating an inquiry into allegation that BJP leader had submitted a false affidavit in the court.

 The  , while referring the matter back to high court, also vacated its stay on the inquiry order of the high court.
 
 The order had been passed by Justice Alok Verma on an application moved by petitioner   in which he had stated that Vijayvargiya had lied in an affidavit and that he was not even present in person at the notary office while signing the affidavit. According to the petitioner, an imposter had signed the document, since records showed that Vijayvargiya was out of Madhya Pradesh when the affidavit was signed at the court’s notary office.
 
 In the order passed by the high court, the camera footage of notary office and report of a handwriting expert was also sought.
 
 Following this, Vijayvargiya had moved a special leave petition in Supreme Court stating that no offence had been committed by him and that there was no ground for such an inquiry.
 
 “The Supreme Court, has however directed the matter back to high court and said that for initiation of any such enquiry, the court must express its opinion on why the inquiry is needed and justify prima facie that offence has been done and an inquiry is necessary. After placing the opinion on record in writing, an inquiry can be initiated,”  , petitioner’s counsel said.
 
 While arguing in Supreme Court, Vijayvargiya’s counsel had also sought for the application to be decided in the Apex Court itself. This plea was however dismissed by the court on grounds that an application pending before the high court can only be decided by the high court.
 
 
 
 
 Vibhor Khandelwal, counsel for petitioner Antar Singh Darbar, said that Vijayvargiya had submitted an affidavit in the high court on September 7, 2015 where he had mentioned himself as state minister. “But Vijayvargiya’s resignation as the minister had been accepted in the month of June itself. So, when he had filed the affidavit, he was not a minister. Therefore, he had misguided the court,” Khandelwal said.
 
 
