GURUGRAM: In a move to   space in the city and clamp down on rampant parking by the roadside,   is planning to   15 parking sites in different parts of the city.

 A total of 15 parking sites, including eight in Sector 29, two in Sector 32 and one each in sectors 28, 38, 43, 44 and 45, will be auctioned on July 17.
 
  The rate for parking will be the same across the city, and there will be no revision in that for now. So, to park your car for up to four hours, you will have to pay Rs 20.
 
 Till now, parking contracts were given only for Sector 29, while elsewhere, it was free. 
 
 Now, Huda has included several other locations, mostly commercial areas, to award contracts. “It will regularise parking spaces and earn revenue for the authority,” said a senior Huda official, adding they will declare more parking facilities in other parts of the city in the coming months.
 
 Huda first proposed introduction of paid parking in 2013, but withdraw its decision under pressure from residents and commercial establishments. Then in 2014, Huda proposed to construct a multi-level parking lot in Sector 29, with space to house 1,300 cars, but the project failed to take off. In 2015, Huda awarded a contract to a private party to collect parking charges, but the contract was scrapped within a few months due to alleged irregularities. Finally, paid parking was introduced in Sector 29 over the past year.
 
 “After the success of the paid parking facility in Sector 29, we decided to introduce paid parking all over the city. To ensure transparency, the one-year contract will be awarded through e-auction. The license period can be extended, subject to satisfactory work with 10% increase in lease amount every year,” said a Huda official.
 
 The official said Huda has empty plots across the city which are unofficially being used as car parks. Now, they are planning to make commercial use of the land. “There is no harm if Huda makes commercial use of its land. It will regularise parking space,” he said.
 
 Geeti Jain, resident of Sector 15, said most cities have paid parking, so there’s no wrong if Huda starts charging for car park facilities. “Designated paid parking slots will prevent on-road parking, which causes traffic jams,” said Jain.
 
