NAGPUR: Even as city roads have turned into open bars, the police, civic bodies and district administration are simply playing role of mute spectators while ignoring ever rising complaints from the citizens. Ever since the Supreme Court forced closure of liquor establishments, the menace of drinking outside bars, under flyovers, on footpaths and other public places, are on a rise. It all adds to the woes of nearby residents, who bear most of the brunt of their activities, like eve-teasing, drunken brawls, street fights apart from the traffic snarls and parking problems.

 Though cops and civic authorities expressed inability to take action against such illegal makeshift bars, the lawyers said there’re slew of laws where these authorities can take definitely take action both against sellers and those consuming liquor.
 
 “The cops in particular, can crackdown on them under various provisions of Bombay (Now Maharashtra) Prohibition Act, 1949. They can definitely detain those who found selling or consuming liquor without proper permit. The corporation can, at the most, seize handcarts and kiosks of persons who allow such activities at their establishments,” senior lawyer Chandrashekhar Kaptan says.
 
 Endorsing him, Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) counsel Sudhir Puranik says, all those makeshift shops which are either selling liquor or allowing consumption in their area, could be evicted as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act. “In cases where consumption was underway in front of bars, particularly in the residential areas, the Excise Department’s has to play a major role. The citizens should immediately lodged the police complaint and should resist from giving   to liquor shops.”
 
 According to lawyer  , the police can arrest those consuming liquor without permit under Section 66 of prohibition Act. They could be sent behind bars for six months for first offence and two years after that. “The Act makes it amply clear that anyone under 21 years of age if found in such activities, they’re liable for punishment. Even shopkeepers and bar owners could be punished for providing liquor to the minors, who’re under 21 years of age and not 18 years.”
 
 Citing Section 133 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), he says the district magistrate can take action against such establishments, if brought to its notice. “The district administration can take action against illegal establishments and even the liquor shops for creating nuisance at public places. The offenders could face six months to one year of imprisonment.”
 
 Even those availing drinking permits, were granted limited access, Daga says, adding that those flouting its rules could face action. “There’re basically three types of permits — for visitors, tourists and interim. The first one is given to foreigners coming to India and is valid for a week. Second one for citizens travelling to other states, whose validity is one month. The last is for individuals and remains valid for two months only.”
 
 He adds that citizens providing their premises for drinking purpose for ten or more persons are liable to be prosecuted under Section 86 of the Act, where they could be sent behind bars for six months. “Under Section 68 titled ‘common drinking house’, whosoever supplying liquor without permission from their establishments are can face up to five years jail term,” he said.
 
 All lawyers however stressed on creating awareness among the citizens and raising voices against such activities to tackle the menace. 
 
