NAGPUR: The   has still not complied with the   on maintaining scholars’ data. 

 Though the cell has a database of PhD scholars, it only matches on three counts of UGC format while new details like Aadhaar number, funding agency, date of completion etc are missing.
 
 Pro Vice Chancellor  , who is handling the exam section, said no such UGC circular was in his knowledge.
 
 “Routine method of data entry is being followed as per the earlier notification. I will have to see if the UGC’s letter was receive by the vice chancellor,” Yeole told TOI.
 
 Officials in the PhD cell say they are in a dilemma as the data is entered by scholars themselves through their registered login ID, and if the Aadhaar column is added to the datasheet then it will be open to misuse as the data is put online. 
 
 On March 9, the UGC had written to vice chancellors across the country asking them to compile data of PhD scholars and put them on their university websites within two months. It had warned that a list of defaulting universities would be prepared.
 
 The UGC had also attached a format to be followed by the universities. The format included columns for Aadhaar, mode of PhD, registration number, date of registration, likely date of completion, funding agency, etc of the scholars.
 
 In hindsight, the UGC realized that putting Aadhaar number in public domain would expose the data for identify thefts or other misuse.
 
 Thus, on April 28, the UGC clarified that the Aadhaar numbers of scholars shouldn’t be published or displayed publicly.
 
 But, theNU was saved of undoing the task since it never complied with the first instruction sent by the UGC.
 
 According to PhD cell officials, over the years the NU has been following a set format of maintaining scholar data. The scholars are given a login ID and password after getting registered. Using this, they have to fill details such as name, address, qualification, caste, contact number, etc. After filling the details, they have submit a hard copy with the PhD cell where the forms are verified and put online.
 
 But, three columns such as topic of research, supervisor, and place of research of the PhD cell’s format match with the new UGC format.
 
