NASHIK: The   area and Trimbakeshwar Road woke up to the beats of Zumba music, as dancers guided thousands of Nashik 21 K Run 2017 participants to a warm-up ahead of the race on Sunday.

 A senior police official said that around 15,000 people from across the city, state and country participated in the event organised with the theme of  .
 
 Police commissioner Ravinder Kumar Singal said the huge response to the Nashik 21 K Run 2017 has motivated the police force to take it forward to next year as well. He was speaking at the prize distribution ceremony of the Nashik Marathon at Trimbak Road.
 
 Participants of the 21 K run started the event at the break of dawn, while other participants for the 10km, 5km and 3km categories began their runs after a gap of 20 to 30 minutes. 
 
 In the meantime, Hausla organised its sixth annual marathon of this year. Disabled children from all schools across the district participated in the marathon. The office bearers of Hausla said the aim was to propagate the message ‘See our ability not disability’.
 
 A rope malkhambh performance by blind girls of National Association for the Blind, was also part of the event. Another highlight was the national anthem rendered by the deaf and mute girls of Mai Lele School. Events like skating by young children, riders on super bikes, a Bhangra dance performance by a team from Punjab were also organised.
 
 Renowned wrestler Sangram Singh and Bollywood actress Sayali Bhagat, cheered the participants. Singh also ran 3km with the commissioner.
 
 Among others who caught the attention of everyone was former commissioner of police S Jaganathan, who had initiated the run last year. He arrived in the city from Mumbai to run 21km. Many police officials also participated in the run. Senior police inspector from Ambad Madhukar Kad ran 10km with his wife. Inspector   also completed 21km in over two hours.
 
 Prizes were awarded in different categories as per the age group. Many participants said that the event was organised in a very professional manner by the police and after watching the huge success of 21 K run, this event will only reach new heights in years to come.
 
