MADURAI: With the city facing its worst water crisis in 142 years this year, the   has decided to establish a   cell, through which residents can get technical details on its setting up and maintenance, corporation commissioner,   said on Wednesday. The cell would be set up in co-ordination with the Young Indians chapter of the CII ( ) and Rainstock, an organisation into rainwater harvesting. 

 Nanduri was speaking at the ‘World Water Day’ event organised by the corporation at the Gandhi Museum campus in Madurai on Wednesday. He said that this was by far the most important event being conducted by the Madurai Corporation and the importance of conserving and saving water was a message that has to be taken to all.
 
 Water awareness will be intensified in the city corporation limits in the next two months, before the next monsoon to harvest the rain, he said. While many houses having already established their own structures, as there is a government order which makes it mandatory, campus rainwater harvesting systems in large complexes and institutions are to be intensified, he said. These structures set up over a decade ago have to be maintained regularly, he added. 
 
 Collector K Veera Raghava Rao, who flagged off the World Water Day rally in which hundreds of students from many city colleges participated said that students of both schools and colleges in the districts should act as ambassadors of water conservation.
 
 He urged the students to take the message on water conservation to all the 1946 hamlets in the district and said that the district administration was ready to help them in this initiative. The only solace is that this March, the district received four times more than its average rainfall, which helped it have water for an additional 15 days. “Just imagine what we would have to face if the failure of just two monsoons, led the district to face the worst drought in 142 years,” he said.
 
 Chairman, CII Madurai Zone P Srinivasavaradhan said that the CII would work in co-ordination with the district administration to maintain water bodies in the district.
 
 Chair YI Madurai chapter, Vijaya Darshan Jeevagan, R Sivarajah, founder Nativelead foundation, Dr Gunasekar, Co-chair YI, among others spoke.
 
