THANE: Road in Thane have become worse than those in the remote villages. A drive around the city will lead to backaches or even dislocation of bones, as the roads are only filled with  . However, here’s a chance that even a common resident or any Thaneite can contribute by geo-tagging the pothole or any   issue to the Thane Municipal authorities and they   that action will be taken within next 24-48 hours.

 Civic infrastructure issues like instances of pipe burst, water thefts, unclean roads, open manholes, waterlogging or anything else can be alerted to the   and prompt action will be taken by the authorities.
 
 In a bid to improve the citizen and administration interaction, the TMC is launching its revamped mobile based app that will help residents aim, click and send complaints along with evidence to the authorities about any failure in facilities in addition to the existing pothole reporting facility. A mechanism is being developed that will alert the concerned department instantly following which the redressal will be hastened in a time bound manner.
 
 An official explained that users can download the application from playstore or log on to stargrade.thanecity.gov.in. once loaded, users can click photo of any civic facility which they want to report about and upload it on the app. The app is backed by GPS (Global Positioning System), so the location of the complaint will be automatically uploaded. Complaints would ideally be supposed to be addressed within 24-48 hours, informed an official.
 
 Users would be updated about the status of their complaint along with the details at every stage.
 
 An official associated with the earlier system said the app will help identify the actual problem zone and will also ensure accountability among officers. “The department will get accurate detail of the problem including water logging, waste disposal as the app will capture the area, time of the complaint registered or clicked helping weed out fake plaints,” said an official.
 
 A similar facility for potholes was launched in 2015 and will now be extended to cover other areas as well. The app was unavailable last year but has now been revamped to accommodate other services too, informed a civic officer. Initial trials are being conducted following which the same will be available soon for public use, said the official.
 
 
