NEW DELHI: The courts are the feeblest form of government, shorn of any power or control, when they believe their effectiveness is under threat, they resort to using contempt of court as a weapon against dissenters, said Justice A P  , former chief justice of Madras and Delhi high courts.

 Justice Shah’s observation, made during a lecture at a journalism school in Chennai on Wednesday, have come at a time when the higher judiciary is engaged in an ugly war in which on one hand a bench of the   has hauled up a senior judge of the Calcutta high court, Justice C S Karnan, in a contempt case and on his refusal has constituted a medical board to determine the fitness of his mental health, on the other hand Justice   has not only defied the SC order but has instead issued a non-bailable arrest warrants against the chief justice of India and six other judges of the apex court.
 
 “Where the offence of defamation tends to be used against the press most often by public authorities, and increasingly, powerful private players, there is one tool that is used often by courts. This is the tool of contempt of court,” said  , who was critical of the rampant “use” of defamation laws and contempt cases to silence any criticism.
 
 Shah said judges themselves are at the receiving end of the exercise of contempt as a weapon whenever the court perceives that some statement is contemptuous. “Two recent examples, both coincidentally of judges of the Madras High Court, are of Justice Markandeya Katju and Justice C S Karnan, who were hauled up for contempt of court,” he added.
 
 Justice Shah, the former chairman of the Law Commission of India, quoted from a 2012 report of the UK’s Law Commission on the abolition of the crime of contempt, saying the law was originally intended to maintain a “haze of glory” around courts. The purpose of offence was not ‘confined to preventing the public from getting the wrong idea about judges..but that where there are shortcomings, it is equally important to prevent the public from getting the right idea’.
 
 “In India, unfortunately, these notions of ‘haze of glory’ persist unto this day,” Shah said, strongly favouring scrapping of the contempt and criminal defamation laws from the statue books.
 
 On the rampant misuse of the defamation laws, particularly against the press, the former Law Commission chairman termed them as “oppressive laws” designed to silence the freedom of thought, speech and expression and something that threatens the very idea of your existence as a free and independent institution.
 
 The use of defamation is intended to prevent the public and the media from criticising or learning about public affairs. These lawsuits seek to censor, intimidate and silence critics, using the threat of legal action, until they abandon their criticism or opposition, he said.
 
 “One instance where such damages were granted was in 2011, when a civil court in Pune directed the owners of the Times Now channel to pay Rs 100 crores in damages for having mistakenly shown, for a few fleeting seconds, the photograph of a retired Supreme Court judge in connection with a scam, whereas another retired judge with a similar sounding name was involved,” Shah pointed out. In appeal, the high court had asked the Times group to deposit Rs 20 crores and furnish a bank guarantee of Rs 80 crores. “The Supreme Court did not interfere with this order. These sums of money are utterly ridiculous, even for a big media house. Imagine if a smaller media house were involved, they would probably not be in existence today,” Justice Shah added.
 
 The former Delhi high court chief justice said this pattern of powerful and influential entities suing members of the press, or investigative journalists, is not uncommon. “Indeed, there’s a term for these kinds of defamation cases: these are called SLAPP lawsuits, where SLAPP stands for 'Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation'. The precise objective of these lawsuits is to use the law, and in all of these case, defamation in particular, to prevent the public from criticising or learning about public affairs,” he explained.
 
 That is the most terrifying aspect of SLAPP lawsuits, he said. Those who file these cases rarely expect to achieve any significant victory in monetary terms. Victory is achieved through mere silencing criticism. And indeed, Indian courts have rarely, if ever granted punitive or exemplary damages. But this threat of a high liability becomes the sword hanging over every critic’s head, and results in a chilling effect on investigative journalism, Justice Shah summed up the issue making a case for scrapping of the laws that restrict free speech.
 
 Pitching strongly for abolishing the criminal defamation, Shah said the UK, from whom we inherited the offence through the Indian Penal Code, has abolished the law completely while at unlikeliest of places this has been held unconstitutional. In Zimbabwe the constitutional court has held criminal defamation to be an unconstitutional violation of freedom of speech, Shah said.
  
 
