

 The  , which is starved of funds, by imposing of entry   will become rich by a few crores of rupees which may help in the overall development of the city beautiful. However, the rising level of pollution will remain unabated. To check the  , the central government has to take certain steps to wipe out vehicles over 15 years old in a phased manner. The old vehicles should be purchased and scrapped. The new commercial vehicles be exempted from paying excise and other taxes.
 
 
 
 
 The municipal corporation decision for imposing   is very justified. But on the other hand, the MC should also ensure that the permanent citizens of Chandigarh should get the best of facilities like electricity, water, medical and safety. The funds should be genuinely used to improve road infrastructure and maintenance purpose. Also, flyovers and underpass are need of the future transportation. Citizens of City Beautiful should not be imposed and overburdened with more taxes to generate funds.
 
 
 
 
 Chandigarh is one of the most modern cities of India, well known for its cleanliness and planning. But it has been observed that over the period the quality of air and atmosphere has deteriorated. The level of pollution has crossed much above the permissible limit. Traffic congestion has also become a big havoc. It is due to the fact that Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in the country with over 12 lakh registered vehicles. Moreover, a high number of people living in Panchkula, Mohali and other nearby places and working in Chandigarh commute to this place daily. On the other hand, the Chandigarh MC is gripped with a big financial crunch. With limited sources of available funds and earmarking of a fund of around Rs100 crore for smart city project it needs to tap new sources for generation of more income. So, the MC is thoroughly justified in imposing entry tax on commercial vehicles. On one side, it will help control the traffic congestion and pollution and on the other the income the MC will get augmented.
 
 
 
 
 There was a time when life was simple and much easier even with the minimal facilities. The government charged money for providing basic essential services like electricity, transportation as bus and train services. There were no charges for water supply. Education was very cheap with nominal fees. But with the passage of time, life has become difficult and costlier. Slowly and steadily, taxes been imposed on the public directly or indirectly. Imposing entry tax on commercial vehicles will indirectly affect common man as owners of commercial vehicles will add it to the amount charged from consumers. A government is supposed to make the life of the people comfortable by providing the basic services from its own exchequer earned from the exploitation of natural resources, industries, imports exports, railways and other modes of transportation etc. Had our system of governance been honest and corruption-free, the government would not need to impose taxes directly or indirectly. How come the employees of public dealing departments from peon to top executives are able to amass huge money and properties than employees of equal corresponding rank of non-public dealing departments like research and development or survey departments? How come our pauper MPs and MLAs become millionaire in no time. Check the system. Imposition of entry tax on commercial vehicles is not justified as it is going to hit the common man ultimately.
 
 
 
 The idea of imposing a tax on commercial vehicles entering the city beautiful will not serve the purpose of curbing pollution. It will simply add a few crores to the revenue of the administration. Instead, commercial vehicles which are over 15 years old are the main emitters of poisonous smoke. The government should take stern steps to exchange these old commercial vehicles with new ones by providing owners loans at very low rate of interest to check the menace of pollution. Another alternative is to substitute diesel vehicles with CNG vehicles.
 
 
 
 
 Entry tax on commercial vehicles, but why? If considered possible deterrent towards minimizing city's pollution level, controlling traffic congestion on roads or enriching the MC exchequer handsomely, it won't work either way. City’s own auto-rickshaws are paramount polluters; city's road traffic infrastructure is already adequate and problem solely is mismanaged plying. Even bonafide Tricity residents drive vehicles undesirably aggressive besides being unduly mobile-phone savvy. Enriching MC exchequer not needed as existing one hardly works good except sole misappropriation. Need is of desired traffic regulation practicably, as flaw is also due to disheartened and uninclined enforcement staff. Entry tax on commercial vehicles visiting Chandigarh won't help but will further pinch residents by making consumer items further costly. We need disciplining the vehicle drivers and not further burdening the multiple taxpaying vehicle-owners and ultimately, the innocent consumers.
 
 
 
 
 Whatever tax the administration may impose, ultimately it gets passed on to customers, common citizen. Already, we are having so many taxes to reckon with and as of now we are heading to a common GST, then where is the rationale to generate additional revenue through an entry tax. Further, if imposed, it will set in a chain reaction from the adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, imposing additional hardship on the aam aadmi, resulting into further demands for additional DA. Earlier, there used to be an entry tax for goods entering Mohali (Punjab) from Chandigarh, which, on persistent protests, had to be later abolished. The different tax structures also give rise to malpractices, including the infamous 'hafta' by roadway cops. Commodities like liquor, petrol/diesel should all have a common pricing with uniform taxes/excise duties so as to prevent 'smuggling' across neighbouring state borders. No entry tax on commercial vehicles please. Find other means of adding more revenue to UT's kitty.
 
 
 
 I would say this is outrageous to impose entry tax on commercial vehicle entering Chandigarh to raise funds for development. This will not be in the interest of residents as well as traders. This will amount to long queues at entry points by commercial vehicles resulting in idling thus burning fuel, pollution, creating traffic jams, creating problems like attending to call of nature by waiting drivers nearby, causing nuisance besides it will also encourage corruption. In addition, it may lead to road rage and accident cases. GST being rolled out nationally to avoid waiting at various check points and here MC is all out to create hurdles in the smooth movement of goods. Due to industrial policy, most of the traders have shifted their godowns in Chandigarh but now they will have to get stores unloaded outside to avoid double payment of entry fees since due to GST in place. By imposing entry tax, the consumer who are using radio cab shall be paying Rs 100 for a trip on an actual fare of which may be less than 100, thus fleecing the residents and making them pay unnecessarily and forcing them to use own cars. There are more than 30 entry points to Chandigarh from all sides, to man these points 24x7 it requires manpower and also checking squads. Entry to Chandigarh is already restricted for commercial vehicles during day, this order will further create problems.
 
 
 
 
 With an aim to generate additional funds, the idea of levying entry tax on vehicles entering the city in the name of development work is not at all justified. The municipal corporation has sufficient funds. It seems the authorities feel the only solution for all ills is increasing the tax burden on public. A better idea will be to curb all wasteful expenses and check corrupt practices. Family trips in the name of study tours. I feel it will only increase corruption, either pay tax or bribe on tax collection booths. Moreover, this will cost the MC exchequer lakhs of rupees on tax collecting booths and squads to keep check. I do not think that it will serve any useful purpose but would rather inflict financial burden on public. There is need to learn the use of existing funds honestly.
 
 
 
 
 The municipal corporation does not appear to be justified in imposing the entry tax on commercial vehicles at this juncture owing to the fact that it is going to be subsumed in the proposed Goods and   (GST) among other taxes at the state level. It would be more appropriate if the MC awaits the implementation of the very well devised working model of the GST regime which has been scheduled to take place from July 1 this year. If the revenue-savvy MC still decides to go ahead to levy the entry tax, its life span would be restricted to just three months only and it may have to rework the same again as per relevant provisions of the GST, which will uniformly apply to the entire country. In any case, the imposition of such a tax, irrespective of its timings, is also bound to create huge traffic jams at various entry points of Chandigarh until and unless some exclusive entry zones/points are priorly introduced for all such targeted commercial vehicles.
 
 
 
 
 Levying of entry tax on commercial vehicles was needed. Any commercial vehicle entering Chandigarh should pay green tax to compensate for the pollution that it is going to add to the city. Yes, cars used as hired vehicles may be considered for exemption. I say so, because, a large number of people stay within 50 km to 60 km of radius from Chandigarh, who commute to the city on regular basis. A good number of students also commute to Chandigarh on a daily basis, some of whom may be using hired light vehicles. But, all other commercial vehicles must pay, as is the case in other states. Chandigarh has the highest vehicle density in the country, with over 11 lakh vehicles on road today. We cannot afford to be another 'gas chamber' like Delhi. While the UT authorities and the MC needs to be more proactive in this regard, ensuring good environment is a collective responsibility.
 
 
 
 
 The decision to impose entry tax on commercial vehicles by the civic body is in right direction to generate funds for better financial position of corporation. The entry tax would also restrict the unnecessary entrance of heavy vehicles which may give little relief to traffic chaos in the city. The law is always made for protection and comfort of the public to provide better infrastructure but it has to crossed many barriers that comes in way to implement the rules as to face objections from truck operators and to set 24-hour counter on all entry point for collection and to deploy mobile squad to check on evaders as well to ensure better traffic management. The officials appointed for implementing the rules must be accountable for their functioning and be checked by senior officers for any kind of misconduct.
 
 
 
 It's so sad to know that the MC is taking all retrogatory steps when India is heading towards one nation, one tax (GST). This MC decision is heading in opposite direction and not towards the smart city. It is definitely a wrong move.
 
 
 
 This is just another catchy name for indirect fleecing of city residents. After paid parking this is another way of making city residents pay for living in Chandigarh and for meeting expenses arising out of maintenance of useless body called municipal corporation (MC). These bodies are made only to accommodate few people on public expenses. Are residents listening?
 
 
 
 
 The decision to impose such a tax is a fallout of wrong decision taken by the Chandigarh administration earlier on. Nearly two years back in order to boost revenue, the administration and STA decided to charge one-time lump sum tax from taxis and such commercial vehicles instead of yearly commercial tax which is prevalent in all states (Punjab/Haryana/Delhi/ Uttarakhand/Himachal Pradesh). At that time it seemed to be a brilliant idea by the administration without caring for future revenue loss or caring for poor operators who had to pay a hefty amount to get the vehicles registered. But soon it backfired coz when app-based taxis (UBER/OLA) were launched, the administration stumbled in bringing out a clear policy on web-based cars. This resulted in thousands of taxis getting registered in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana (the tax was yearly there in comparison to UT's one-time lump sum). This caused a huge revenue loss for Chandigarh as 95% of web-based taxis are registered in Punjab and Haryana. So it has been decided to take another route via MC to tax all vehicles which will only further burden the common man as this tax will be passed on to end users.
 
 
 
 
 I would rather raise the questions on feasibility and practicality of implementation. The municipal corporation in my opinion has acted without evaluating the consequences of their decision. They have not taken into account whether space is available for them to build kiosks for constructing toll payment booths. They have not considered the effect of their decision on traffic management, if they were to try and implement collection of toll on existing entry and exit roads to Chandigarh. They haven't a clue that they shall add at least tenfold to the already existing traffic chaos on all major entry and exit points of Chandigarh. Basing their decision on Delhi is a mistake. Delhi has very few entry and exit barriers compared to the size of the city, and they have diverted commercial vehicular traffic to several dedicated lanes on the side to collect toll without effecting private vehicular traffic.
 
