After dispatching the huge demand of   for the assembly elections of five states in India in March,   is all set to dispatch about 46,500 bottles of indelible ink for the   in Cambodia.

 Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited, popularly referred to as Mylac, is the only authorised company in the country to produce the ink which is used in every elections in the country. The company has also dispatched the indelible ink for many nations during their general elections.
 
 The Mylac has already been busy in manufacturing about 46,500 bottles, that each bottle is of 70 ML that costs 17 US$. The Mylac has started the work from April 26 and expected the work to be completed by May 05. The company is likely to dispatch the bottles to Cambodia by May 6.
 
 The company has already undergone an MOU of Rs 5 crore with the elction commission of Cambodia. Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, H A Venkatesh, Chairman of Mylac told, “We have always kept our quality and delivered the goods on time. This order placed by the Cambodia has shown our commitment towards the quality of the ink.
 
 The company had dispatched demand of 4.30 lakh bottles of ink (each bottle of 10 ml) for the elections in these five states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa and Punjab that was held in March.
 
 Interestingly, the Nanjangud and Gundlupt election was the last election in India where the indelible inks were used. The Mylac has been asked by the EC to manufacture indelible markers for the coming elections in future. Speaking about the indelible markers H A Venkatesh said, “The markers are even cheaper than the ink and is very easy to manufacture. It will save more time,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 The ink manufactured by the company was also used by banks to prevent multiple withdrawal of money after demonetisation of Rs 500 and 1000 denomination notes during the last two months in 2016 for the first time in the history of myLAC. The Reserve Bank of India had placed an order of about 2.96 lakh ink bottles to which the myLAC dispatched about 1.5 lakh bottles of ink due to insufficient time. The only manufacturer of indelible ink was supposed to go on the busy schedule due to immediate demand for the coming polls.
 
 
 
 
 The company was established in 1937 by Maharaja of Mysore Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV in the name of Mysore Lac and Paints Limited and was renamed as Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited later. The company which is owned by government of Karnataka has been exporting the ink to countries like Thailand, Singapore, Nigeria and South Africa.
 
 
