KOLKATA: For Bipin Ganatra, the news he has just received is yet to sink in. Congratulatory messages have not stopped pouring in for this affable Gujarati — the “fireman” from central Kolkata who was announced as one of the   awardees on Wednesday evening.

 Not a fireman by profession, he has received the honour for being in the forefront of rescue operations during big fires, ever since he lost his brother, Narendra, to a blaze in the 80s. Ignoring any risk to his life, Bipin, an electrician, would dash into several infernos—without any protective gear — hold burn victims close to himself and ferry them to the hospital, saving their lives. “This is your love. Nothing else. I have only done my duty,” said Bipin in his trademark modest way, with folded hands and his head bowed.
 
 Karimul Haque, the man known for his undying effort in saving lives by ferrying patients to hospitals in his motorcycle, free of cost was also nominated for the Padma Shri award this year.
 
 Karimul, who is in his mid-fifties, does not exactly know what this award means. “Can I buy an ambulance now?” he asked TOI when he heard he is going to get the fourth highest civilian award of the country.
 
 On Wednesday as well, Karimul was on his regular duty. He ferried a kid, Rohan, to the Malbazar Hospital on his bike for treatment. He returned home in the evening at 5.45pm. “When I was in the hospital someone called me up and said that I am going to get Padma Shri award. But honestly, I don’t know these things. I am a poor man and want to continue with what I have been doing. The blessings from the people that I help are my real awards,” he said.
 
 Karimul started ferrying patients fifteen years ago, after he had to watch his mother pass away struggling for breath as she did not receive any treatment. Instead of lamenting too much, he took an oath — he would not let anybody else in his village die without a fair chance to be treated. “Had my mother been alive, I would have had to spend money to support her. I consider that by serving people I am serving my mother,” he said.
 
 Professor Ajoy Kumar Ray is the third awardee. Under Ray’s leadership,   in Shibpur was taken over by the Centre and converted into an   through an act of Parliament in March 2014. The institute was later renamed as Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology(IIEST), Shibpur.
 
 “In 2009, I joined IIEST Shibpur which is my almamater. I spent around eight wonderful years with my students and colleagues in our journey towards excellence. All that I wish for is that the young minds in colleges should put a lot of sincere hard work to become successful in facing challenges that our country is going to face tomorrow,” Ray told TOI. 
 
 The fourth recipient of the Padma Shri award from Bengal, albeit posthumously, is Asoke   for his work on archaeology. 
 
