KHARKHAUDA: Lodged on the Meerut-Hapur road,   is an unremarkable stretch of handcarts, shops, banks and a police station that’s common to west Uttar Pradesh’s kasbahs. Technically it is a nagar panchayat, though, a term for villages growing up to be towns.
 
 Kharkhauda has three ATMs that service its 14,000 odd residents and those living in the nearby villages. At noon on Thursday (Jan 5), the ATM outside an SBI branch was alive and spewing Rs 2,000 notes. The other two ATMs outside   and Punjab National Bank were shut.
  
 An   issued on January 3 had asked all banks with currency chest to ensure that at least 40% cash reached rural areas, in denomination of Rs 500 or below. “Some money had been put into the ATM three-four days back. But, generally speaking, after notebandi, there is no money in the ATM. People walk in to check their balance,” said Sushil Kumar, whose cycle repair shop is adjacent to the PNB ATM.
  
 A 100 odd yards ahead, the ATM outside Syndicate Bank was shut too. The bank’s branch manager (who preferred not to give out his name) said he has been filling it up with cash off and on. “In fact, we loaded Rs 4 lakh on Jan 3, but the money was withdrawn in hours,” he said.
  
 The Syndicate Bank official said that since mid-December the cash flow had improved and queues were shorter now. “I dealt with 1,000-1,200 people at one time,” he said. Last Thursday, there were less than 100 people inside though the queue stretched outside and, kept in shape by a cop.
  
 Interestingly, the banker pointed out that nobody wants to deposit the new notes in circulation. “Roughly 95% of our customers are coming for withdrawal. Only five per cent are here to deposit cash,” he said.
  
 On the other side of the road, insurance agent Sudhir Tyagi was standing in the middle of a queue inside SBI. There are 10 customers before him and another 10 behind. “I have been here for about an hour and I think it will be another hour before I get to the counter,” he said.
  
 But Tyagi wasn’t too harried. “The queue stretched way outside the building a month ago. Now getting money is easier,” he said. SBI branch head Vijay Kumar Todiya also spoke of “improved cash flow”.
  
 Farmer Nirmal Tyagi said that during the early days of  , he went back home empty-handed on several occasions. “Now I am able to take out money easily. I even withdrew Rs 24,000 a few days back,” he said.
  
 When asked whether they will switch their votes to a new political party in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next month, the Tyagis replied, “We will vote for the same party we voted for before. In fact, we decided whom to vote for long before notebandi was announced.”
 
 Another bank customer, Mohammed Danish, had similar views. “I will stick with whoever I voted for last time,” he said. To improve the chances of an honest answer, the customers weren’t asked to name who they had voted for last time.
 
