Chennai: In a rare show of solidarity, startup founders like Freshdesk's Girish Mathrubootham, Mobikwik's Bipin Preet Singh took to Twitter to express their solidarity with Stayzilla CEO Yogendra Vasupal who was arrested on Tuesday on charges of fraud. Others, including Snapdeal founders Kunal Bahl and inMobi founder Naveen Tewari demanded Vasupal be granted bail. "Many startup founders, including myself, have seen the ugliness of getting on the wrong side of people with bad intentions," said Bahl, while Tewari exhorted "save entrepreneurs."

 Startups have been rallying behind Vasupal and have exhorted other startups to "tweet this to Prime minister who has been extremely passionate about #startupIndia and can surely help protect an entrepreneur and his family." Hashtag -- #ReleaseYogiNow -- has been taken up by Stayzilla employees and startup founders like Zarget's Arvind P, who are tweeting to Prime Minister's Narendra Modi's handle.
 
 "Let the law take its course, but intimidation of Stayzilla founders crosses a line. It's unhealthy for entrepreneurship in India. We stand together with entrepreneurs. @PMOIndia, #StartupIndia needs your support!" said Sachin Bansal, chairman, Flipkart. 
 
 Apart from startups rallying behind the beleagured home stay start up Stayzilla, Karnataka IT Minister Priyank Kharge also tweeted on Wednesday morning, The Minister said he had talks with Tamil Nadu IT Minister M Manikandan and IT Secretary T K Ramachandran "I am sure he will help if @YogiVasupal is on right side of law," tweeted the Minister.
 
 Ravi Gururaj, founder of QikPod and Nasscom board member condemned police action. "Disappointed + distressed @ heavy handed tactics against @YogiVasupal Stayzilla. Totally unacceptable. Alerting authorities requesting help!," tweeted Gururaj. He also thanked the Karnataka IT Minister his quick intervention.
 
 Nasscom vice president and head of its internet, mobile and e-commerce council Prasanto K Roy asked "Why Bangalore City Police is harassing Stayzilla founders? One is in police lockup illegally?"
 
 Other notable members of the startup community, who rallied behind Stayzilla were -- VC fund Nexus Venture Partners' Pratik Poddar, Toppr.com founder Zishaan Hayath, Kalaari Capital VC Ashish Dave, Petoo cofounder Ritesh Dwivedy and WYO founder Rajveen Khandelwal.
 
 Both Matrix Partners and Nexus Venture Partners have invested in Stayzilla, which has raised as much as $34 million in funding as on date.
 
 Balakumar P, senior product manager, Stayzilla, thanked twitterati for its support.
 
 
