New Delhi:   has formed a panel, including former finance minister P Chidambaram and Jyotiraditya Scindia, to draft a roadmap of financial recovery and self-reliance for the three municipal corporations. The blueprint will be unveiled on March 6.

 Blaming financial mismanagement and corruption to be the root causes for the current civic woes being faced by citizens,   Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) chief Ajay   on Thursday presented a “chargesheet against the misrule of the BJP-run corporations.”
 
 With civic elections scheduled in April, Congress is leaving no stone unturned to make a comeback in the three local bodies. “Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi will lead a rally at Ramlila Maidan on March 7,” Maken said. Party workers will then start door-to-door visits with the chargesheet to convince Delhiites to vote for them.
 
 Displaying the Economic Survey’s ranking of urban local bodies on transparency and accountability, Maken said, “This chart prepared by the Union government puts Delhi at the sixth place from the bottom. Delhi figures below cities like Ranchi, Bhopal, Patna and Kanpur, which is a poor reflection on the administration of the corporations by BJP.”
 
 “While the Mumbai corporation has Rs 51,000 crore in fixed deposits, Delhi’s civic bodies have not even been able to effectively mop up revenue collection, nor do they have money to pay salaries to their employees,” Maken added.
 
 The DPCC chief claimed that the corporations will be made self-reliant within two years of Congress coming to power. “We will optimise tax collection and efficiently utilise the vast land bank. Revenue can be generated from street vendors who are currently forced to pay bribes. Many such best practices from other urban local bodies will be included in this blueprint,” Maken said.
 
 “If the corporations strengthen their financial position, they will no longer have to go with begging bowls to the Centre and Delhi government for funds,” Maken added.
 
 Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders in the corporations said that they won’t comment on the allegations without having studied the Congress document.
 
 
