Nagpur: In the city Dusshera holds different meaning for varied communities and sects who celebrate it in their own unique way. A host of dignitaries arrive to attend the foundation day of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and pilgrims from entire state and outside visit Deekshabhoomi for the Dhammachakra Pravartan Din.

 With preparations going on for a while now, the organizers at Deekhsabhoomi are a troubled lot this year.
 
  “The police and the administration have been very uncooperative this time,” says trustee of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Smarak Samiti Vilas Gajghate. 
 
 “A new set of rules has been imposed by the traffic police and they are arbitrarily closing routes which has caused a lot of problems to those who are setting up pandals or providing chairs. Adding to the woes is the ongoing road construction work.
 
  “The number of stalls set up on the roads has also come down drastically as this year as NMC has given permission for only 500 stalls while last year the number was 900,” he informs. 
 
 250 stalls are set up in Deekshabhoomi. Most sell literature on Ambedkar thought and varied memorabilia. “The books sales at this venue is around Rs 55 crore which is highest anywhere in the country,” Gajghate says.
 
 The brightly coloured effigies of Ravan came up at various venues on Friday evening. The lighting of Ravan is organized by members of Hindu organizations most of who hail from North India. At the Tilak Nagar ground, it will be lighted at 6.30pm on Saturday. Started some 56 years ago, the event now attracts many in west Nagpur.
 
 “This area was very deserted five decades back so my grandfather once made a Ravan effigy and we lighted it. It was fun so we started doing it every year,” says Santosh Gujjar and adds that even chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in his childhood would come here and help in the making of Ravan.
 
 “Now we get it made from Binwars in Mahal,” he adds.
 
 The nine-day Navratri festival too culminated on Friday with rituals, prayers and havan performed at various temples in the city. “As the Durga Saptshati is recited on all nine days as part of the Navratri rituals, it is essential to end it with a havan as in our scriptures fire is considered to be the medium for carrying our offerings to various gods,” says priest Prashant Manbhekar.
 
 Many temples had dedicated spaces for keeping akhand jyots for all nine days. “We perform visarjan in the temple itself of these jyots by removing the wick and place the lamp in water,” explained Madhavanand Giri, manager of Geeta Mandir where 700 such lamps were placed.
 
 The Bengali puja mandals perform the immersion of idols on Dussehra at Futala Lake. “We used to do it at Sonegaon lake many years back but now that is not permitted,” says Sanjay De of Nabhanna Durga Puja Samiti. 
 
 “It is inauspicious to bid adieu to the goddess on Saturday. Since this year Dussehra is falling on Saturday we will be performing the immersion on Sunday,” De adds.
 
 
