Thiruvananthapuram:   central committee member and former minister E P Jayarajan on Friday came down heavily on CPI and warned the party against serving the right wing forces while staying with Left forces. Jayarajan, who had criticised CPI and its mouthpiece Janayugom daily two weeks ago, took to Facebook to unleash a scathing attack against CPI for its attack against SFI and DYFI.

 “The cacophony created by those who are jealous of the growth of SFI and DYFI is polluting the Kerala society. Political movements should not be affected by the practice of biting one’s ears by climbing on his shoulder,” Jayarajan wrote in FB without naming CPI. On Thursday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said he had not lost the faculty to reply to allegations (levelled by CPI) but had chosen to remain silent to avoid controversies. Jayarajan, who is a close confidant of Vijayan, seems to have taken a cue from it and decided to react.
 
 Jayarajan said SFI and DYFI had won unique places in Kerala’s campuses and society by organizing continuous protests against communal and fascist forces. “SFI and DYFI are forces that keep communal and fascist forces at bay. Those who can’t accept SFI and DYFI may please stop the habit of holding demonstrations with communal forces and anti-LDF forces,” Jayarajan said hinting at the joint agitation conducted by the AISF, ABVP and KSU during the Law Academy protest.
 
 “To portray a strike in a college as a protest against the government and to attempt to give a Left face for that protest is political decay. Attempt to justify that decay through tall talks is condemnable,” he wrote.
 
 The firebrand CPM leader also reminded the CPI it was not a secret who had given away the land for Law Academy, referring to former minister and CPI leader M N Govindan Nair who had first ordered the leasing of the land. “It is not appreciable to play gimmicks for grabbing political attention. To say the least, it is akin to cutting the tree branch one sits on. If such forces do not withdraw from attempts to weaken Left forces, a few cadres who are still with them will also leave them,” he said.
 
 
