It’s official! This piece of news is bound to send Beliebers into a tizzy —   will have his first full-fledged concert in the city on May 10. The 22-year-old Canadian pop sensation will perform for the first time in India at the DY Patil Stadium in Navi Mumbai. The visit will be a part of his Purpose tour (his fourth studio album) in Asia. Apart from India, he will also perform in Tel Aviv and Dubai.
 
 Other than performing, the singer is also likely to indulge in some Mumbai darshan. A source closely associated with Bieber’s maiden India tour revealed, “Bieber loves Indian food and has it every time he’s in the UK. So, the organisers will chalk out a special desi menu comprising his favourite Indian dishes — chicken tikka and tandoori. He’ll also be given a tour of the   museum in Mumbai and gifted a specially compiled coffee table book that will have some of the Bollywood A-listers expressing their love for him.”
 
 Arjun Jain, the man behind the tour, confirmed the news, adding, “Justin has been wanting to come to India for a long time. He will be travelling to Mumbai from Dubai and is expected to be here for at least two days. All those rumours about the tour being cancelled owing to his ‘hefty fees’ are not true. India is yet to witness a stadium tour of this stature. We chose DY Patil as the venue as it gives a better view of the artiste. Security arrangements are in place, too. Justin will stage an extraordinary show propelled by state-of-the-art production; it will be of a magnitude that the country has not witnessed in a long time.”
 
  
  
 For those curious, tickets will go on sale online from February 22 and will be priced Rs 4,000 upwards, approximately. The audience can expect Justin to perform for at least one hour and forty five minutes to his smash hits like Where Are Ü Now, Boyfriend, Love Yourself, Company, As Long As You Love Me, What Do You Mean?, Baby, Purpose and Encore: Sorry, to name a few.
 
 Interestingly, Bollywood celebs will be roped in and are most likely to open the concert before Justin’s solo performance. Our source added, “Nothing has been confirmed yet, but AR Rahman, Sonu Nigam and  , along with a host of Bollywood biggies such as Shah Rukh Khan, Ranveer Singh and  , are most likely to be roped in to perform and host the concert. The opening acts will also feature a few international artistes, since it will be a day-long affair.” 
 
  
  
 
