NAVI MUMBAI: A right to information ( ) activist from the city has written to the   and the governor seeking a probe into the alleged irregularities in   at 13A, sector 12 in   node to the Bombay Oriya Women’s Association (BOWA). 

 Anarjit Chauhan has alleged that the lease agreement has been violated as the 560 square meter land was given as a centre for research in Indian music and dance, but it has been converted into a commercial complex. 
 
 An enquiry has also been sought into the allotment of all plots, at concessional rates, for social causes by Cidco since 1990. 
 
  Chauhan has also dashed off letters to top government officials in the Mantralaya. 
 
 “In my letter, I have accused both Cidco and the association for violation of the lease agreement. The plot was allotted for boarding for women artists trained in classical music and dance from Odisha, apart from being a research centre. But no such activities are being carried out there. It’s been exploited commercially. The ground floor which was meant for parking has been rented out,” Chauhan alleged.
 
 Cidco senior public relations officer Mohan Ninawe said, “When the matter has reached the office of the chief minister and the governor, we have nothing to comment.” 
 
 President of the associations, Kananika Tripathy, said, “The land was allotted to us as a socio-cultural centre in 1997. We had requested Cidco to allow us to use the land for commercial purposes. Cidco had permitted 20% of the FSI for commercial use on payment of extra premium. There has been no violation in FSI rules. The building was built as per the plan approved by Cidco.”
 
 Cidco sources said that a survey was carried out after the allegations about misuse of the premises was made and they had served a notice to BOWA.
 
  “We have already sent a reply to Cidco about the query raised by the activist. The building is being used to run a dance academy besides cultural activities and social functions on a no loss and no profit basis,” Tripathy said.
 
  The commercial portion of the building is being used for educational purposes and as an administrative office, the association’s official added. 
 
 
