MEERUT: A   clashed with the police on Thursday morning after an argument over opening up of a   near the   area here.
 
 The police were called when someone in the neighbourhood saw a buffalo meat shop open. The police took two meat sellers to the police chowki, and within minutes hundreds of meat sellers from the area gathered at the chowki and threatened violence if their fellow meat sellers were not let off. The stand-off continued for about an hour, after which the meat sellers who had been picked up by the police, were let go.
  
 The police, meanwhile, downplayed the incident and claimed that it was not such a major incident. “It was a minor incident. Someone called the police because the shop in the area was open and the meat sellers got agitated. They did come to the police chowki but there was no real altercation. They just shouted some slogans and threatened to turn violent. That’s all,” said Vijay Gupta, station house officer, Kotwali police station.
  
 “I was just about to enter my shop when I heard this commotion at the nearby buffalo meat shop. Police had come as someone had complained about the meat shop being open. People gathered and they were fighting with the police. Then the police took the meat shop owner with them to the nearby police chowki. Hundreds of other meat sellers followed them, carrying their knives from their butcher shops. They encircled the police chowki and became very aggressive. Things were getting out of hand as more and more people were joining in. But, somehow the police managed to calm them down,” said  , a witness.
  
 The meat sellers in the area complained about police action and not being able to transact business for over two months. “Even if we open our shop for a minute, the police are there. We have been unable to transact any business for the past two months. The police are also harassing us by just picking us up for no reason, like they did today. There is a lot of anger,” said  , a meat seller in the Sohrab Gate area.
