AHMEDABAD: The state government which has formed a special purpose vehicle, for a regional network integrating   and local trains, has sought details of the traffic expected on the railway network passing through Ahmedabad city and connecting nearby cities of Mehsana, Anand, and   among others.

 The Gujarat Infrastructure Development Board, state government and the Indian Railways have formed the SPV and the GIDB is in the process of preparing the DPR for the project. 
 
 IP Gautam, managing director of   for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad (MEGA) said that the GIDB has asked the railways to give the load on its existing network and also future projections so that they state can plan for introducing metro trains coordinated with existing trains..
 
 Senior officials from the state government said that the integration of a rail system operated by Indian Railways with a state-owned Metro rail network will, once effected, result in significant savings for both the state and Union governments. The ministry of railways has given the in-principle approval for the integration.
 
 The integration will mean that citizens on a singe ticket coming from areas like Gandhinagar, Sanand, Viramgam, Dholka, Dhandhuka,  , Kadi, Nadiad, Anand and Naroda, will be able to use the Metro and regional railway services. However, the Centre has made it clear said that it may not be possible for the railways to fund the project.
 
 The state has said that it plans to develop the project on the   model. Officials said that setting up new tracks would have been costly, so the state government sent the proposal to the central government to allow the use of the existing railway tracks for the project.
 
 On an average, there is a time gap of around 15 minutes between two routine trains and hence the state government wants to use the free time and run one regional train. The only extra expense that would be incurred will be to lay a second track between Ahmedabad and Kalol via Gandhinagar, Asarwa and Naroda.
 
 
