NAGPUR: Around 60   leaders from the city including an ex-MP, several ex-ministers and former MLAs, at least 18 sitting corporators on Monday called on party Vice-President   in New Delhi to apprise him of the sorry state of affairs in the city unit of the Congress. 

 In the hourlong meeting, the party loyalists poured their hearts out and sought urgent measures to end hegemony of defunct leaders who were fighting personal battles of supremacy at the cost of party organization. AICC general secretary   , in-charge of Maharashtra who was present at the meeting was at the receiving end as the city leaders squarely blamed him for most of the mess.
 
 Citing instance of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) elections held in February in which the Congress came out with worst-ever performance winning only 29 seats in 151-member civic house, the local leaders told Rahul that there was foul play. Those controlling distribution of party tickets had an underhand dealing with the   and took money for losing the elections, they alleged.
 
 More than registering complaints, the party loyalists said the purpose of the Delhi visit was to see how the derailed party could be brought back on the right track. The sitting corporators also gave instance of how Sanjay Mahakalkar was appointed the leader of the opposition in NMC last month though Praful Gudadhe Patil was the candidate best suited for the post with vast experience and requisite aggression to raise issues.
 
 “As sincere and committed party workers, we did our bit. We gave the complete report of happenings to Rahulji who heard with full seriousness. Getting nearly one hour of his time itself shows that he has taken us seriously,” said a local youth leader who was present at the meeting but like all others did not want to be identified at this stage. “ Let some results come out, then we will declare it all,” said another senior leader. The delegation members have struck a tacit understanding of not divulging anything to the media at this stage.
 
 Sources said those leading the delegation were ex-MP Gev Awari, ex-minister  , ex-MLA  . Among the sitting corporators the prominent ones included Parful Gudadhe, Tanaji Wanve and Manoj Gawande. Apparently they vent their ire at ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar and current city Congress President Vikas Thakre under whose leadership the NMC elections were fought this time.
 
 After meeting Rahul, the local leaders were scheduled to meet party President Sonia Gandhi’s political adviser Ahmed Patel. They would also be meeting state Congress President   who is now in Delhi attending Parliament session.
 
