KOLKATA: Barcelona legend and World Cup winner with the Spain national team,  , will be in India next week to mark the launch of ticket sales of the Fifa under-17 World Cup. Apart from the launch of ticket sales which will go live on May 16 at 19.11 hours (IST), Puyol will also be present at other events between May 15 and 17.

 Before his visit to India, Puyol spoke on various issues - under-17 World Cup, Barcelona, Spain national team and   - in an exclusive interview to 
 , conducted via email. 
 
 
 
 
 
 This is a great opportunity to boost the growth of football in India. Experiencing World Cup action first hand, even a youth edition, is a great feeling. People will enjoy a lot, discover future stars and feel the energy that surrounds a competition of this level.
 
 
 
 Being called by your national team to play in a World Cup is a great opportunity for a footballer who is starting his career. Besides getting to compete at the highest level at this young age, it prepares him for the professional stage of the game.
 
 The Indian team should enjoy this competition while learning to manage the pressure. The players should give their best and learn from the experience. But, above all, they should work as a team.
 
 
 
 It starts from the base. The kids need to start playing. The parents, schools and other institutions have to promote the sport. I started playing on the streets because playing football does not cost money... you just need one ball. For this reason, I think that it is a sport that can be easily introduced to any culture. Good grassroots coaches are also needed. India will slowly be able to boost this wonderful game, for sure.
 
 
 
 Great players are needed and they also have to be at their peak physical condition during the competition. Sometimes, great players carry a lot of played games on their legs during the year, and they are very tired by the time they reach the competition. A little bit of luck is also needed, but the most important thing is to play as a team.
 
 
 
 Now, with perspective, I realize that besides my physical condition, my attitude always helped me to play with the best and enjoy great success. Hard work and enthusiasm have always been there. I think perseverance, mental and physical strength and total dedication to my sport - without losing focus - made the difference.
 
 
 
 There are different groups of players for these competitions. Champions League is the result of a full season's work and the World Cup is the work of little over a month. The environment that surrounds you is also different. Both tournaments are very important and it is difficult for me to choose, but I have a special memory of our Champions League triumph in 2006. It was my first international title and it was the only game my father saw me playing live before he passed away, which makes it very special and unique.
 
 
 
 I would say a combination of the club's philosophy and great players. The profile of players that can adapt to Barça's methodology, a great coach, a team that deals success with humility and does not lose the desire to keep on winning.
 
 
 
 The Barcelona team always make it count with great players. I feel they are quite similar, only small nuances vary.
 
 
 
 The choice is not easy, but I'm sure that the club will look for a coach with the right profile to be in charge of the team. Someone who will adapt to the philosophy of the game that Barcelona encapsules. About Messi's contract renewal, I hope that he does stay. For me, he is the best in history and it is a privilege to have him in Barcelona. I hope he stays there for many more years.
 
 
 
 I don't know. Right now, I'm focused on a new phase, with my friend   who understands football the same way I do. We have formed a team in player management to help new generation of players with their football careers. Our outlook goes beyond the typical player-manager concept. We accompany our players as mentors.
 
