NEW DELHI:   and the central intelligence agencies have not found fake Rs 2,000 currency notes seized so far to be not of ‘high quality’. Sources in NIA and   have told TOI that the seized notes are at best a scanned copy, with a cheap metallic strip cut in pieces and pasted on the note being passed for the security thread. 

 While 40   with a face value of Rs 2,000 were seized earlier this month by the   police in  , this was followed by another seizure of 48 fake notes by BSF near the Indo-Bangladesh border in Malda. On February 14, NIA arrested one Umar Faruq from   in an old FICN case and seized three fake Rs 2,000 notes from his possession. 
 
 According to a top NIA officer, a physical examination of the three notes revealed that they were scanned copies. In fact, given that the counterfeit currency had none of the features required in high-quality FICN, no FICN case is made out in the said seizure. 
 
 “We had earlier asked for some samples from a consignment of Rs 2,000 notes meant to be smuggled through Nepal-Bangladesh route. They were also found to be inferior scanned copies,” said the officer. 
 
 “Not a single Rs 2,000 note seized so far appears to have been printed in a minting facility, as was the case with all high-quality FICN seized before demonetisation,” the officer added. 
 
 An intelligence official, citing a physical examination of the 40 fake notes seized from West Bengal, said all the security features fully replicated -- through register, devanagari denomination, Mahatma’s portrait, guarantee clause, Ashoka Pillar emblem, Number panel (all on front) and year of issuance, Swachh Bharat logo and Mangalyaan image -- could easily be captured with a colour photocopier or scanner. 
 
 As for the cheap quality security thread, it was just pieces of metallic strip cut and pasted on the note. Another give-away was the fact that there were just 5 serial numbers for the 40 notes, said the officer. 
 
 All the fake notes have been sent for forensic examination at the RBI laboratory. 
 
