VARANASI: The judicial commission probing into October 15 stampede that claimed 25 lives at   has expressed dissatisfaction over non-cooperation of the officials of district administration and police. It gave last opportunity to the officials to record their statement before the commission or get ready to face action.

 The chairman of judicial commission and retired judge of high court, Justice Rajmanu Chauhan held a press conference at circuit house on Saturday. He said, “The commission has received over 2000 statements and affidavits, though no photograph and video footage has been given by anybody so far. Despite giving repeated opportunities to the officials, no one from district administration and police including IG, DIG, SSP, SP City and district magistrate turned up to record their statement before the commission so far.”
 
 Justice (Retd) Chaudhary was unhappy because the notices to all the officials had been issued to appear before the commission immediately after its formation.
 
 Many senior officials met Chaudhary in circuit house and sought more time to record their statement. He said that these officials had been given last opportunity. “If they will not appear on next date of recording the statement by commission, I will write it to the state government to initiate action against them,” he added.
 
 On October 15 last year, Pankaj  , the successor of Jai Guru Dev, had organized an event of discourse in   area. As part of the event. a procession was carried out by his followers. During the procession, stampede took place on Rajghat bridge, in which 25 persons lost their lives. The state government constituted a judicial commission to probe into the matter.
 
 At the time of formation of the commission, the government had fixed two months to complete the investigation and submit the report. But, as only evidences could be collected in this period, the commission sought more time from the government, he said. The government has extended the time for completing investigation till May 2017. He expressed hope that the commission would finalise its report and submit to the government to fix responsibility of the officials concerned.
 
 
