GAYA: The   (SBPDCL) is allegedly sitting on a Rs 125-crore project for underground electric cable networking in Gaya town for almost 18 months now.

 This came to light at a meeting held to review power supply situation in Gaya. The meeting was attended by divisional commissioner Jitendra Srivastava, other district officials, SBPDCL officials and representatives of  , the franchisee for power supply in Gaya town, Bodh Gaya and   areas of the district.
 
 Sources said haphazardly erected poles and unplanned installation of transformers on the motorable areas of important roads were identified at the meet as major irritants in uninterrupted power supply without fluctuations. Frequent breakdowns take place in the business centres as vehicles hit the poles, causing disruption in power supply.
 
 “The basic electrical infrastructure of the town was laid in the late 1950s with Russian technological support. Except for the recent replacement of naked transmission wires with coated bunch cable in parts of the town and installation of new transformers, little has been done to strengthen power distribution network in the town,” said a source.
 
 India Power, after getting power distribution franchise in June 2014, has taken the initiative for replacement of worn out transmission cables and proper load distribution. 
 
 “It was revealed at the review meet that India Power about 18 months back submitted the Rs 125-crore proposal for underground electric cable networking on the main roads of the town. Total networking in the town may cost about Rs 450 crore.
 
 The Integrated Power Development Scheme, under which the proposal was submitted, envisages cost sharing in the ratio of 60:30:10 (Centre, power distribution company and the state respectively). “The proposal was yet to be forwarded to the Union government for its approval,” said a source.
 
 Principal secretary (energy)  , who is also the chairman of Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited, was not available for his comments as he was said to be out of the headquarters on Friday afternoon.
 
 India Power’s GM (commercial)   said the company was ready to invest its share of the project cost provided the Union government and the state government contributed their shares. 
 
