CHENNAI: Cashing in on the   Banganapalle mangoes enjoy across the nation, the   government has obtained   (GI) for the table fruit and become its  . 

 Banganapalle mangoes got GI status after the commissioner of horticulture of Andhra Pradesh applied to the geographical indications registry in Chennai. Now that Andhra Pradesh has become the registered proprietor of this variety of fruit, others intending to exploit the brand must apply to become authorised users and get a no-objection certificate from the Andhra Pradesh government’s horticulture department.
 
 In the petition, the commissioner said the government had been engaged in cultivation of Banganapalle mangoes in Andhra Pradesh for over a century. The agroclimatic and geographical conditions prevailing in Banganapalle and adjoining areas gave the fruit its unique characteristics, the application said. Though primarily raised in Kurnool district, including Banganapalle, Paanyam and Nandyal mandal, the fruit is also raised in parts of Rayalaseema region, coastal Andhra region and Telangana.
 
 The commissioner said the department adheres to strict quality standards in cultivation and post-production care like ripening, preserving and packing. The department represents the interests of the farmers and consumers of Banganapalle mangoes in Andhra Pradesh, he said, adding that nearly 7,68,250 families of farmers and traders were engaged in the profession.
 
 An estimated 24.35 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes were grown every year in Andhra Pradesh, he said, adding that of this, 5,500 tonnes were exported to countries including the US, UK, Japan and Gulf nations. As of 2011, the annual turnover of Banganapalle mangoes touched Rs 1,461 crore and exports were worth Rs 20.68 crore.
 
 After several rounds of discussions, perusing reports including gazettes and examination reports, the registrar of Geographical Indications Registry, O P Gupta, issued the certificate to the horticulture development agency, represented by the commissioner of horticulture.
 
