HUBBALLI: Do you own a vehicle? Then, be prepared to pay   to the   (HDMC) from April 1.

 The HDMC has started a survey to find out the exact number of vehicles in the twin-cities of Hubballi and Dharwad before starting collecting  . 
 
 In a move to step up its revenue collection, the fund-starved civic body has decided to levy Rs 50 as infrastructure cess on a two-wheeler, Rs 100 on three-wheeler, Rs 300 on four-wheeler and heavy and medium vehicles, Rs 400 on passenger vehicles and Rs 500 on goods vehicles from the next financial year.
 
 The HDMC staff have been conducting a door-to-door survey to find out exact number of vehicles in each household in the twin-cities. “We want to finish the survey in one and half months and start collecting infrastructure cess from April 1,” A R Desai, joint commissioner, HDMC, told TOI.
 
 He said that levying infrastructure cess vehicles is not a new thing and it is there since 2004. Under the Karnataka Municipality Act, every vehicle owner has to pay cess to the local governments. “But till now it was not being implemented strictly,’’ Desai said. 
 
 To a question, Desai, said the person who has the possession of the vehicle has to pay the cess.
 
 The move of civic body has not gone down well with the people of the twin-cities as they feel that HDMC should focus on improving infrastructure especially the roads in twin-cities before levying cess on vehicles.
 
 Ganesh Puranik, resident of Nisarga Layout, said: The HDMC seemed to be interested only in increasing its revenue but not on providing better facilities to the people. Let them conduct a survey on the crumbling infrastructure in the twin-cities and address them first.”
 
  termed the survey a waste of time and man power. “What is the need for conducting a vehicle survey when they can get ready information from regional transport offices (RTOs). I really don’t know why the HDMC is harping on such a lengthy process,’’ he added.
 
 Desai said a door-to-door survey is being conducted so that we can get an accurate number of vehicles in the twin-cities. “We don’t get accurate data from RTO as vehicles are also registered in other districts and states,’’ he added.
 
 
