KOLKATA :Owners or tenants of unsafe buildings being reluctant to go for repairs is not new, but the recent spate of house collapses has made some of them sit up and take note.

 As many as six persons (all tenants) have died in the last two months when their homes collapsed on them.
 
 NR Jaiswal owns a couple of two-storeyed buildings on Uma Das Lane, close to Janbazar, in  .
 
 These buildings were constructed by his forefathers during the Raj. Since Jaiswal shifted to south Kolkata decades ago, eight tenants were entrusted with the maintenance of these buildings.
 
 The buildings, however, got structurally weaker for want of maintenance and were placed on the 'list of unsafe buildings' by the   10 years ago. The civic body's engineers asked the tenants to undertake repairs. Even then, the tenants were not moved. They cited lack of funds as the reason for not repairing the unsafe structures.
 
 However, the danger closer home forced local councilor Sandipan Saha take up the matter with the owner. After the collapse of a building on Indian Mirror Street, which killed two persons, an inspection of the locality's unsafe buildings by a group of KMC engineers found these houses extremely vulnerable. “I did not waste time and asked Jaiswal to take up the repair on a war footing. He agreed, and work is going on in full swing," said Saha. He expressed satisfaction over the owner's quick response. “ As these insecure buildings are in a highly congested place, any collapse would have killed many occupants or passers-by," said a KMC official.
 
 Under the reconstruction and renovation plan, all dangerously hanging portions would be demolished and new structures built. A visit to the locality revealed that even in a set of dilapidated buildings, these particular ones had become the talk of the area because of their vulnerability .
 
 But while most tenants have been shifted to rented facilities, one family still prefers to stay back. “I have been asked to vacate the house and return after necessary renovations and reconstructions. I don't mind moving out once the reconstruction starts," Mita Nayak, a tenant, said.
 
 Welcoming the trend where the owner has taken up repair on his own, a KMC official said a section of owners and tenants were now willing to take advantage of a new buildings department law for reconstruction of dilapidated buildings. “We have received some applications from Burrabazar, Taltala and  ," he said.
 
