New Delhi: The next time you’re travelling to Haryana or Rajasthan, check before heading to an interstate   terminal (ISBT). To decongest the   ISBT, the   department has decided to change the destination stop of buses going or coming from these two states via  . The buses, operating from the Kashmere Gate ISBT, will soon be available from the   in Sarai Kale Khan.

 “There had been several complaints of congestion around the Kashmere Gate ISBT from the Delhi traffic police. They had also suggested that to ease the traffic situation at Kashmere Gate, interstate buses coming to Delhi should terminate at the nearest ISBT,” said K K Dahiya, special commissioner (transport). Following up on the suggestion, the transport department has come out with an order saying that from April 10, all buses buses coming to or going from Delhi via NH-8 will operate from the  .
 
 According to Dahiya, these buses used to come through Dhaula Kuan to Kashmere Gate ISBT, criss-crossing through a large part of the city, adding to the existing congestion. “Now the buses will go straight to Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, ensuring that there is less congestion in the rest of the city,” he added. Buses going to or coming from Chandigarh, Shimla etc will use the ISBT at Kashmere Gate.
 
 The order is expected to impact around 100 buses meant for places such as Jaipur, Ajmer, Bikaner, Udaipur, Pushkar and Bhilwara. Most of these buses take the road to Jaipur, and enter Delhi via Dhaula Kuan and NH-8. 
 
 The traffic situation at the Kashmere Gate intersection has worsened over the past few years. Besides the regular flow of four-wheelers and two-wheelers, the presence of the ISBT along with the neighbouring Metro station and the associated para-transits such as autorickshaws and feeder buses has made the area one of the most traffic-heavy stretches in the city. The traffic police had tried various measures to decongest the area. 
 
 The transport department, said Dahiya, will implement the decongestion plan in phases at the Kashmere Gate ISBT. The second phase will look at relocating interstate buses from UP to the interstate bus terminal at Anand Vihar. However, this is likely to take a few months due to the existing congestion as well as high levels of pollution at Anand Vihar.
 
