PONDA: Leaders of varied statures are warming the cockles of people’s hearts in the cultural capital of Goa, Ponda, with promises that encompass everything under the sun. Leaders here have shredded to pieces even the finer inhibitions interlinking politics, culture and religion.

 Due to its strategic central location and its status as temple town of Goa, making it an attraction to both tourists and locals, Ponda’s political leaning has always influenced surrounding constituencies. This has made it the constituency for political parties to fly their flag high.
 
 Ponda was held by Congress since 1999, as, till then, MGP and BJP did not believe in the adage ‘united we stand, divided we fall’. In 2012, the two joined hands and put up a brave front and dislodged the Congress. Former CM Ravi Naik, who was one of Congress’ strong candidates, had to bite the dust.
 
 For the 2017 assembly elections, the two have parted ways.
 
 For Naik, the ensuing polls will be a battle for survival. If fortune smiles on him, and his party, too, he may just catapult to the chief minister’s chair. In 2012, MGP’s Lavoo Mamledar defeated Naik by around 3,000 votes.
 
 Lavoo is trying his luck for the second time on the MGP ticket. But, the political situation in Ponda is different now after the BJP and the MGP parted ways. 
 
 The BJP has fielded  . The former MGP MLA Shivdas Verekar’s son, Rajesh Verekar, has also thrown down his gauntlet, claiming youth support, and will contest as an independent. AAP has fielded youth leader  .
 
 In 2012, issues such as medium of instruction (MoI), widening of roads, PDAs and anti-incumbency factor led to Congress’ downfall. All these issues are on the back burner now as BJP and MGP are involved in a slugfest over no development. Verekar and AAP have also targeted the MGP and the BJP on this count and are seeking a new face for the constituency.
 
 Naik has begun campaigning, but is yet to hold any public meeting. 
 
 As polls draw nearer, parties are promising a stable government and solutions to issues such as completion of incomplete projects, planned development, road widening, garbage disposal, etc. MGP is laying special emphasis on tenancy, traffic management, garbage disposal and sopo collection, while BJP is assuring a master plan.
 
 A peek into history will show how important Ponda taluka is for the MGP. It was from this taluka that the first chief minister of Goa, late Dayanand ‘Bhau’ Bandodkar began his political career, though he was elected from Marcaim. His daughter and first woman chief minister of Goa, Shashikala Kakodkar, also started her political career from here in 1967. Gajanan Raikar, an independent backed by MGP, was the first MLA to represent Ponda in the state assembly, in 1963. In the 1972 and 1977 elections, freedom fighter   won on a MGP ticket. Ponda remained the MGP bastion from Liberation till 1977.
 
 Congress came to power for the first time in 1980 with Joildo Aguiar as MLA. In 1984, MGP once again secured its bastion with Naik winning the polls. Thereafter, for the 1989 and 1994 elections,   of MGP won. Since 1963 to 1994, Ponda mostly remained with MGP. For the 1999, 2002 and 2007 elections, Naik tasted victory on the Congress ticket.
 
 Polls 2017 won’t be a cakewalk for most political outfits. It will be like fishing in muddy waters. However, it is the party that succeeds in grabbing the Muslim votes and crosses the 9,000-mark that will emerge victorious.
 
