PUNE: The skyline and ground reality of   old city area, including 17 peths and occupying a total area of over 147.85 sqkm, would change drastically if the   and developers make maximum use of the additional   mentioned in the new  .

 Pune consists of maximum number of slums as housing typology, followed by bungalows and wadas. With the new Development Control Rules (DCR), the percentage of bungalows and wadas would decrease because they would be redeveloped into apartment units.
 
 Considering the population growth in the next decade, the net area required for housing in old Pune is 3515.4 hectares. According to the development plan for the old city, the gross residential area required to cater to the future housing demand is 4745.79 hectares.
 
 This area will reduce substantially with the implementation of new development policies introduced in the DCR — additional FSI for development of affordable housing, higher FSI for government and civic employees’ housing and more FSI for the low income group housing.
 
 The minimum FSI of 1.5 has been allotted for development in congested areas where the road width is 9 metres, while the maximum 3 FSI will be allowed for development where the road width is 30 metres and above. The metro and BRTS corridors running in mid-city will have 4 FSI.
 
 “The face of the old city will change with the new DCR. You can expect some high-rise constructions in the next few years. Redevelopment of old dilapidated wadas will gain momentum and properties more than 30 years old will go for redevelopment to avail benefits of higher FSI,” said city engineer Prashant Waghmare.
 
 The new DCR has brought more clarity to the redevelopment of old wadas. Redevelopment of tenanted building undertaken by landlord or cooperative housing society of landlord or occupiers shall be allowed with an FSI equivalent to the rehabilitation area plus 50% incentive FSI of the rehabilitation area, states the provision. All certified tenants of the old building shall be re-accommodated in redeveloped building.
 
 The residential areas required for housing in the old city area would reduce substantially with the implementation of the new DCR. Also, land would be made available by converting agriculture land to residential land. 
 
 “We are hopeful that the new DCR will promote re-development and affordable housing. After this decision, we are waiting for the amendment on rules to promote slum redevelopment. Around 45% population stays in slum and occupies only 8% land, but unfortunately all slum projects are halted because rules are not favourable to them. If new slum rules are amended on a priority basis, Pune city will witness a new overall outlook, creating a right impact on the city in the future,” said Atul Goel, the managing director of Goel Ganga Developers (I) Pvt Ltd.
 
 There are counter-views on higher FSI, though. “I believe that the higher FSI in mid-city areas will affect realty market and result in collapse of prices. Also, one must remember that housing projects coming up in mid-city will not be affordable for poor and lower income groups. Builders are enamoured with the short-term benefits, but are ignoring the long-term consequences,” said one of the Credai, Pune Metro, members.
 
 Earlier, veteran urban planning experts, including Shirish Patel, have opposed 4 FSI along the metro corridor. 
 
