
 The run up to the Independence Day is NCR’s favourite time to fly kites. However, just as the kite-flying season is about to begin, the   has imposed a nation-wide ban on nylon, Chinese and cotton manjhas coated with glass, citing a threat to life and environment. An NGT panel had imposed an interim ban in December as well. 
 
 
  
  
 
 While shopkeepers in Delhi’s   market are happy with the ban on Chinese and nylon manjhas and are not expecting any loss, it is a different story in Gurgaon. With the cheap Chinese manjha being replaced by the more expensive desi manjha from Bareilly and Jaipur, Gurgaon shopkeepers are facing a 50%loss in business.
 
 
  
  
  
  
 "Nobody is coming to buy desi manjha. Kids only want Chinese manjha, and when we tell them that we do not have it, they go away. Ab logon ko Chinese hi chahiye, lekin hum kahan se laayein?” asks Pawan Kumar, a shopkeeper in  . Om Prakash, another shopkeeper in Gurgaon adds, “Humare paas stock tha Chinese manjhe ka, par jaise hi ban aaya, humne sab jala diya. It was better to burn the stock than to face legal issue."
  
  
 While we expected shopkeepers in Gurgaon to have procured the manjha from Old Delhi, they told us that they get their stock from Bareilly and Jaipur. "We get our stock from Jaipur and Bareilly. Wahan se hi sabse achha desi manjha aa raha hai. Iss baar toh sirf Bareilly ka manjha hi demand mein hai," says Narendra Kumar, a shopkeeper in Old Gurgaon. 
 
  Pawan Kumar, another shopkeeper, adds, "We do not get our stock from Delhi. We want our rates to be genuine, so we prefer to get the stock from these places. Chinese manjha Bangalore se aata tha par desi manjha Bareilly se aa raha hai."
 
  
  
  
 
 The ban on nylon and Chinese manjha was imposed keeping in mind the threats that it poses to life and environment. So the shopkeepers are also doing their bit by informing the customers about its cons. "Our customers, especially kids, tend to go away when we tell them that we don’t have Chinese manjha, but then we tell them about the problems associated with it. Humein bhi bechna hai toh hum kehte hain, kam paise de jao, zyada manjha le jao, par lelo desi manjha," says Narendra Kumar. 
 
 
  
  
  
  Om Prakash, another manjha seller, adds, "Hum agar nahin batayenge Chinese manjha ke baare mein, toh woh desi manjha lenge hi nahin. Tabhi hum unhe bol rahe hain ki desi manjha hi lo."
 
  
  A kite seller in Gurgaon (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
  
  
 While the shopkeepers in Delhi are welcoming the ban, they tell us that the kids prefer Chinese manjha. "Woh jaldi se patang katne nahin deta, tabhi main Chinese leta tha," says one of the kids near a shop in Old Delhi. "Bachhon ko toh sirf Chinese hi chahiye, par hum kuch nahin kar sakte. Hum toh de nahin rahe, shayad kuch log chupke se de rahein ho toh pata nahi," says Tanzeeb, a manjha seller in Lal Kuan, Old Delhi. 
  
 --Riya.Sharma@timesgroup.com and Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
  
  
  
