This year, one of the pop songs that took the internet by storm was the hilarious yet satirical video 'Hwages' that tackled the various bans imposed on women in Saudi Arabia. While this Arabic song angered hardliners in the kingdom, it garnered millions of views online, as it challenged the country’s patriarchal culture and mocked the law that prevents women from driving. Like art, music has provided artistes a platform to speak up and lend their support to causes they believe in.

 
 Just last month, UK-based Indian musician and trip hop artiste Ishani Chakravarty’s 'Don’t Stop The Fight' put a spotlight on the emotional and physical distress of sexual assault survivors. The video shows five women experiencing physical and sexual violence and their reactions to it. Says Ishani, “This video throws light on sexual violence against women and aims to empower them. I wanted to tell a story from the point of view of real girls who just want to live their lives in a society that is safe. Though the stories depicted in the video show violence against women, it is a statement more broadly against all forms of abuse.” She believes the video, which released in April (sexual assault awareness month), is a step towards encouraging mainstream conversations around such assaults.
 
 
 Remember AR Rahman’s iconic number 'Urvashi Urvashi' from the 90s? Well, it was given a feminist remix recently by Breakthrough India, an NGO, albeit with a change of lyrics — 'Break The Glass Ceiling Urvashi'. The song, which raises awareness about gender inequalities and misogyny in society, has received overwhelming public support. Ironically, the artistes featuring in the video were abused online. From the importance of consent and body-shaming to socially-imposed dress codes and victim blaming, the song hits all the right notes. Instead of ‘taking it easy’, the song encourages women to question sexism and patriarchy.
 
 
 Last year, Mumbai-based composer-singer Nanok released the bold single 'Lay You Down', which featured   and   as lovers. The risqué video garnered millions of hits on the internet and was also applauded by LGBTQ communities across India. Navzar Eranee, who directed the video, shared in an earlier interview with BT that the thought wasn’t to titillate or shatter any stereotypes, but to normalise the idea that people can be in love, regardless of their gender. “The video is a reflection of the times we live in. We can bridge the gap between who we are and our created selves for public acceptance. There must be room for open-minded logical conversations. I believe any form of art, including music, has the ability to change people’s perception,” he said.
 
 
 The North East of India and its people are often considered elusive. In a bid to change this perception and ‘make their world known to others’, a bunch of musicians from that region — Feyago, Cryptographik Street Poets, Khasi Bloodz, Symphonic Movement, Stunnah Beatz and B-boy Kim — came up with the hip-hop number, 'Anthem For The North East'. This catchy song covers everything from identity crisis, human rights violations to life in the North East.
 
 
 You’ve heard Sonu Nigam croon Bollywood songs, but the singer recently sang an English anthem, Hope In The Future, which raises awareness about malnutrition. The song encourages people to join in the fight against hunger and dreams of making India a hunger-free country.
 
