JAIPUR: Farmers across the   from 9 am to 12 pm on Monday to press for their demands like implementing   and announce  

 The vehicular traffic on national and state highways was most affected in Shekhawati region where farmers associations were backed by the Left parties and termed the bandh as ' .' There was jam on several stretches of major national highways, Sikar- Sriganganagar, and Jaipur-Bikaner along with state highways
 
 Sikar was badly affected as road blockades disconnected the city with villages. It has severely affected the food supplies in the first half. Many schools and shops have reportedly shut fearing violence. Civil society activists, Ashfaq Kaimkhany, who is a resident of Sikar informed that bandh left city crippled in the first half. “The civil society rarely supports farmers’ movement or agitation but they extended support by closing down the shops without any pressure,” said Kaimkhany. 
 
 The significant effect of bandh witnessed in Churu, Sikar, Hanumangarh, Sri Ganganagar, Jhunjhunu, Bikaner and some parts of Nagaur. Since, morning farmers gathered on highways holding placards of their demands. The jam was accurately planned as at many place farmers came along with tents, water, and food packets. They jammed the road by making a human chain and by parking vehicles—tractors and motor bikes to restrict any movement. 
 
 Police intervention helped opening of the bandh at several places while the places where the number of farmers were way more than the police the bandh lasted till 2 pm. “The idea behind Bandh is to create awareness about the indifferent attitude of government towards farmers. The Swaminathan commission report is pending shows that both Modi led central and Raje led Rajasthan government are anti-farmers,” said Comrade Amra ram, All India Kisan Sabha. The movement will stop unless the government conceded to their demands. “If other BJP state governments can waive off loans why Raje government can’t? Asked Ram.
 
 Farmers also passed a resolution that they will fight for those farmers who committed suicide. Hemant Pareek, CPIM leader states that this beginning of the protest by the farmers. “State has not announced any compensation package and building pressure on the victim’s families to change their statements in the court by stating that family feud is a reason behind suicides,” said Pareek.
 
 
