Gurgaon: Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) is likely to start with a negative balance of Rs 7,000 crore. It can thank   and the state government for the mismanagement of development works and its finances. But with such a huge obligation, there are fears the proposed authority will be a non-starter. 

 According to an affidavit filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court by S S Prasad, the additional chief secretary of department of town and country planning (DTCP), a copy of which is with TOI, the state government has overspent Rs 1,934.49 crore till September 30, 2016. In addition, there are pending payments of Rs 10,500 crore, for enhanced compensation against land acquired, work in lieu of external development charges (EDC) and development of   sectors.
 
 If half of the pending payments is attributed to EDC work — which is the basis for transfer — it will mean an obligation of Rs 5,000 crore. When combined with the amount the state has overspent, Rs 1,934 crore, the GMDA will have negative balance of nearly Rs 7,000 crore in its account. GMDA, when it is formed, will subsume Huda several arms of Huda. 
 
 In the 35 years since Huda was formed, till September 2016 when GMDA was announced, the authority earned Rs 14,343 crore and spent Rs 16,277 crore, thus having a cumulative negative balance of Rs 1,934 crore. 
 
 Members of the NGO Society for Urban Regeneration of Gurgaon & its Environs (Surge), which had earlier filed a petition before the high court on the issue of EDC, said, “Not just the negative balance, GMDA will be obliged to carry out and complete the developmental work left unattended by Huda, and further, bear responsibility of fixing all deficiencies in the existing infrastructure, which will require thousand of crores in funds.” 
 
 A member of Surge said EDC funds were in surplus for 35 years, but due to mismanagement and lack of transparency, the balance turned negative. “We demand full and proper accounting and auditing of EDC funds, so that ill-gotten benefits gained by Huda and the state, through misuse and misapplication of EDC funds from Gurgaon, are made available to GMDA for it to create world class infrastructure in the city,” he added. V Umashankar, the GMDA officer on special duty (OSD), told TOI this is a serious concern and needs to be addressed by the state government before the authority becomes functional. He said he has already raised the issue before the state government in his additional recommendation.
 
 “In the context of the issues arising from land acquisition for external development works, the policy on EDC for existing as well as new licences needs to be revisited urgently. Simultaneously, an aggressive recovery drive for receivable EDC dues must be launched without delay. The establishment of GMDA will come to naught, unless the issue of EDC payments is addressed in totality,” he wrote in his recommendation.
 
