GURUGRAM: A year after gangster Sandeep   was eliminated, Mumbai cops have sought prosecution sanction of the four Gurgaon cops, who are languishing in a Mumbai jail in connection with the ‘fake’ encounter, for further court proceeding. On February 7, 2016, Gadoli was eliminated in an encounter by Gurugram police in Mumbai’s Airport Metro hotel, subsequently termed ‘fake’.

 After Gadoli’s death, his family alleged the encounter was a planned murder by police. Members of Gadoli’s gang accused Gurugram police of killing their leader at the behest of rival gangster and former Gurugram councillor  , and have been looking to kill Gujjar ever since. 
 
 Gadoli’s brother moved Bombay high court, which, on February 14, 2016, ordered registration of an FIR of murder against eight people, including five Gurugram cops. An SIT was formed to probe the matter, who have visited Gurugram many times since then. 
 
 In the first week of June 2016,   booked Gurugram cops — sub-inspector Praduman Yadav, head constable Paramjeet Ahlawat, constables Vikram Singh, Deepak and Jitendra for the alleged murder of gangster Sandeep Gadoli, along with three others — the gangster’s moll Divya Pahuja, her mother Sonia Pahuja, and Gujjar’s brother Manoj. The accused cops were called to join the probe. Finally, in June, Mumbai police arrested sub-inspector Pradyuman and the three constables, followed by Divya and her mother in July, who are all in jail till date. Only two of the accused — head constable Paramjeet Ahlawat and Gujjar’s brother Manoj are still absconding. 
 
 Six months since the accused cops were imprisoned, Gurugram police are yet to unveil a plan for their protection. A week ago, Mumbai police sent a letter to the Gurugram police commissioner, seeking prosecution sanction of the accused cops. “Mumbai cops sought prosecution sanction for further proceedings. We sent it for approval to the government, who alone can decide on it,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI. 
 
 Gujjar and some of his aides are lodged in Bhondsi jail. Next to them are Gadoli’s brothers Brahm Prakash alias Master and Kuldeep, along with some of their associates, who were accused of murdering Gujjar’s elder brother Manish on October 18, 2016. 
 
 
