Gandhinagar: After striking a deal to offload 80% of its stake in Krishna Godavari (KG) basin gas block to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) for $995.26 million (approximately Rs 6,700 crores), Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) is now gearing up to use the proceeds to partly repay its loans and restructure its debt.   has a whopping Rs 22,000 crore debt on its books and pays 9% to 10% interest on it.

 A source close to the development said, “The company is in advanced stages of negotiations with banks to restructure its debt.”
 
 The banks, however, are expecting repayment of some part of the principal to allow restructuring of the debt. “The company has told banks that it will partly repay the debt from funds to be received from ONGC for the 80% stake in the KG gas block. ONGC’s involvement is expected to improve operations with regard to the block, which will yield better returns to GSPC. This will help the state PSU to further reduce its debt,” the source added.
 
 According to sources, GSPC asked for concessions in interest rates. The company also urged banks to convert its short-term loans to long-term ones. “We are also exploring the option of taking cheap loans from the international market to replace the current high interest loans to reduce overall liability,” the source added.
 
 The public enterprise committee (PEC) of the Gujarat Assembly has accepted the observation of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India about the massive financial irregularities in GSPC. For several years, the state government ignored the issue by claiming that CAG’s observations were not certified by the assembly’s PEC. Now, after the PEC’s observation, the state government has little option but to take action.
 
 The committee report noted, “GSPC took ‘unacceptable risk’ in the gas exploration at KG basin. Prior to fixing the bid, technical and financial risk was not assessed adequately and very high bidding price was quoted. Due to which, between 2006 and 2011, the company’s unsecured debt increased by Rs 2,140.53 crore.”
 
 The PSU committee is yet to assess the CAG reports on GSPC from 2011 to 2015. It is expected that the committee will discover bigger faults in the coming days. The committee is yet to inquire into CAG’s observation on GSPC’s failed adventures in oil and gas exploration in foreign countries and in other parts of India. The estimated total loss to the state due to GSPC’s major financial irregularities is around Rs 30,000 crore in the last decade.
 
 
