THANE: Some political party workers and slum dwellers have claimed that thousands of   have been lured by various party candidates with cash and goodies to cast vote in their favour.

 A slum dweller from   said, “The elections are good time to make a quick buck, provided the deal is big and lucrative.“
 
 A majority of candidates eye voters from slum pockets and lure them with cash, liquor, and other such goodies, said sources. Sources from various political parties and even some of the voters said that some candidates are willing to pay Rs 500-2500 per vote.
 
 A party worker, who did not wished to be named, said that there are multiple factors that draw voters.“Their contribution helps sway the voting percentage in a big way and make sure that our candidate is not running out of votes on the d-day,“ he added.
 
 A source explained the process --in the last leg of campaigning, party workers approach the head of a mandal in a particular area to gather a number of people especially members of the Govinda and Ganesh mandals.
 
 They put forward an array of offers, which is accepted by the groups' head and they campaign for that particular candidate.
 
 Based on the financial position of the candidate, the mandals are offered a package ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 3lakh for the group of 50 or more people, who will be involved with campaigning and also casting their vote in the candidate's favour. Initially, the focus is on attending rallies or door-to-door campaigning and each person is paid Rs 250 to 500 per day. The workers are also offered food and other freebies like T-shirts, caps and sunglasses.
 
 Youngsters are also given the responsibility of ensuring that their family members vote in the candidate's favour. The candidates also offer packages according to area they reside in but generally they pay Rs 3,0004,000 for a family of four.
 
 Senior citizens are also offered sponsored trips to nearby pilgrimage places such as Shirdi, Ekvira, Trimbakeshwar and Ashtavinayak. Youngsters are sent on free trips to picnic spots, mostly beaches along the coastline of Konkan and even in Goa with  .
 
