SHIMLA: In the election year,   starting from March 1 is all set to witness fireworks as ruling Congress is facing opposition from not only BJP but by own party leaders. While BJP is attacking the government on issues like corruption, poor law and order, charge against the   submitted to the governor, the opposition from some senior Congress leaders is directed towards the failure to pay unemployment allowance despite promising it in the 2012 election manifesto.

 Budget session would begin from Wednesday and to devise their strategy to corner the government on day one, BJP legislators led by leader of opposition   would be meeting in Shimla on Tuesday evening. BJP is already accusing the government of failing to ensure the development since coming to power. Along with the failed promise of unemployment allowance, BJP would also be raising the issue of charge submitted by it against the present regime to the governor in December last year. BJP has even asked what action state government has taken on the ‘chargesheet’ submitted by it.
 
 Dhumal said that due to inefficient governance, the state has been thrown 10 years back in terms of development. He said mafias are active in the state. He said apple economy of state is pegged at Rs 4,000 crore and to save the crop from hailstorm, previous BJP regime had installed anti-hail gun in Shimla, but after coming to power Congress government shelved the scheme. “But the success of anti-hail gun has motivated some farmers of the district who at their own cost have set them up which is a big slap on the face of the Congress government,” he added.
 
 Nahan MLA of BJP Rajeev Bindal said that on Monday Himachal   is holding a meeting to discuss the issue of unemployment allowance which is quite surprising as for last over four years, the party remained silent on it. He said as per the promise made by Congress in 2012 assembly election manifesto, each unemployed youth was to get Rs 60,000 in five years and state has 12 lakh unemployed youth which means government had to give Rs 7,200 crore as unemployment allowance to youth which it did not provide after winning the election.
 
 Knowing that BJP would be on attacking mode, Congress legislators too would be holding a meeting at Oakover, official residence of chief minister, on Tuesday evening to devise counter strategy.
 
