LUDHIANA: A day after assistant   Kuldeep Singh was booked for   a woman constable by sending her lewd messages on WhatsApp, police commissioner   used rare powers of the commissioner of police to dismiss the ASI with immediate effect. He has been dismissed under article 311 (2) of the Constitution. 

 The decision was taken by the top cop after consideration of the official record of the accused which showed that he had been misusing his official status to indulge in criminal activities. 
 
 ASI   has been booked in two cases under sections 341, 342, 409, 500 of the IPC and section 23 (2) of the PC Act at Police Station Division No 5 on August 5, 2007 and under section 7, 12(2) PC Act at Focal Point police station on October 11, 2017. It has also been found that he had a nexus with the sand mafia operating within the jurisdiction of the Commissionerate, Ludhiana.
 
 In the present case, the complainant said the accused would often make remarks on her appearance and drop in at her hostel on the pretext of checking on her. When she refused to respond to his overtures, he made physical advances and threatened to get her dismissed from service. She said the accused made the physical advance under the influence of alcohol.
 
 An officer of the level of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) investigated the matter after the woman made a complaint. A case has been registered on the recommendation of the investigating officer under sections 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 510 (misconduct in public by a drunken person) of the IPC. 
 
 The dismissal orders also states, “After perusing official records, it is clear that his continuous misconduct with cumulative effect and indulgence in criminal activities reveals incorrigibility and complete unfitness for police service. His retention and continuation in service will be harmful to the interest of the state and general public. Though the penalty of dismissal from services is very harsh and oppressive for a public servant, but no sympathy can outweigh the consideration of the public interest and regard for public good.”
 
 Police commissioner R N Dhoke said, “When I joined here, I promised we would set accountability for each cop. Misconduct in duty will not be tolerated.
 
