LUCKNOW: All roads in the city led to the BJP office in Hazratganj soon after trends unfolded lotus bloom in the state. By 11 am, every corner of the party office was celebrating with followers throwing kesariya (saffron coloured) gulaal on each other. Several rounds of "phoolon ki holi" and bursting of crackers added diverse shades to the colours of victory. 

 But few skull caps turned many heads as they roared har har modi.. ghar ghar modi.. and gaye gaye gaye gaye gaye akhilesh (against SP's slogan of jai jai jai jai jai akhilesh). Openly praising Modi, they voiced their reason for participation and expectations from the BJP. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 One of them was Wakif Mahmood Rufi, who waved the party flag with full vigour. "I am here to tell everyone that Muslims are not averse to Modi or BJP," said the man who quit Samajwadi Party Mohalla Samiti after his party entered into a coalition with Congress Party. "SP was no longer safeguarding interests of the community," he reasoned. 
 
 State president, minority wing, BJP, Haider Abbas Chand Bhai said that like all sections of society, Muslims also need development. "We have been befooled for long... caste or religion are somethings one cannot choose or change. But improving one's quality of life through development is surely in our hands," he said. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Party worker Zeeshan Mohammad waved a lotus cutout like a child out of happiness. "I am into the business of flowers but I am so happy with the mandate that I have brought 51 kilos of rose, marigold and petunia to shower on our party president Keshav Maurya," said Zeeshan. 
 
 The Muslim workers and supporters had their set of expectations from the new government. One Peer Mohammad Khan from Chowk said, "I voted for 'sabka saath sabka vikaas (the BJP slogan'. I wish the new CM integrates skill development of traditional artisans." 
 
 Syed Tahir Raza Rizwi wants uplift of the community through education. "Sachar Committee report showed our educational backwardness... education can empower people and change their life for better," he stated. When contacted, BJP Muslim poster boy and party spokesperson Mohsin Raza said, "BJP against Muslims is a misnomer and all these happy faces prove it." 
 
