PUNE: If your idea of a maid is one with an   and boorish behaviour, reflective of typical,   essentially to wash dishes and sweep floors, it’s time you to do a   and visit your wealthy neighbour.

 For the well heeled are increasingly seeking out household helps who are not only poised and well-dressed but also speak English fluently.
 
 Narendra Saraogi, an NRI who came to Pune recently from Dubai, has been on the lookout for one for quite some time.
 
 “I was in Dubai for almost seven years. I have come here to stay at least for a while and do something of my own. We have two children aged five and four. I am looking for a maid and nanny for our children but they should have a sober personality and, more importantly, speak English,” he said.
 
 He said his children can interact much better in English than in any other language.
 
 In the Koregaon Park area, Sharmesh Gaikwad, who runs a mess (eating facility) at his residence with the help of his wife, said queries for English-speaking bais have started pouring in in large numbers.
 
 “There are many foreigners who live in this area and many come to my mess for lunch. I am getting requests for maids who understand English. However, finding one is a bit difficult. The local maids don’t know English and moreover are a bit hesitant to work in the homes of foreigners,” Sharmesh pointed out.
 
 A representative of the Choudhary Maid Services located in Yerawada, said that apart from foreigners, even Indian nationals want English-speaking maids.
 
 “The number isn’t very huge but around 10% of the calls we receive each month are for English speaking maids and nannies. The demand is for full-time nannies or maids who are well dressed, decent looking and can take care of their kids or help them with their homework. We have provided English speaking nannies to three to four families in Koregaon Park, Vimannagar and Kalyaninagar. Some look for maids who have passports and can travel with them,” the representative said.
 
 Bookmybai.com, an online portal with its headquarters in Mumbai, claimed that the demand for maids having good communication skills, mainly in English, was growing.
 
 “Nowadays Indian families want maids or nannies who are educated, decent and have good English speaking skills so that they can communicate with the family members, especially the children. They don’t want bais who speak only Hindi or Marathi,” said a company representative.
 
 “There are educated women who are opting for such jobs as salaries offered are in the range of Rs20,000 to Rs25,000 for full time work. There are women who approach us for work and many of them are graduates,” a representative of the portal told TOI.
 
 Somesh Gera, who holds a senior position in a multinational company in Pune, has been lucky in finding an English-speaking nanny for his two children.
 
 “We contacted many agencies and were successful in getting one who looks after my children. The woman is decent and I have seen her educational documents which say that she has studied till Plus Two. With my wife also a working professional, we needed someone who could handle two kids, aged seven and ten, besides attending to some household chores. The maid hails from Andhra Pradesh and has been with us for the past two months,” said Somesh, who has a flat in upscale Koregaon Park, told TOI.
 
