DEHRADUN: State tourism minister   was unable to attend two events in Chamoli district in the span of a fortnight which were hosted as part of the state government’s religious tourism venture.   failed to meet trekkers participating in the ‘Dronagiri-trek of the year’ in Joshimath on Tuesday after officials could not take prior permission from the directorate of general civil aviation (DGCA) for the minister’s helicopter ride. 

 An enraged Maharaj has directed an enquiry into the matter, wanting to know why organisers could not complete formalities despite prior information being given about his visit. On May 10, the minister had to return without attending the opening ceremony of Latu Devta portals in Chamoli district after the helipad, in which his chopper was supposed to land, was found to have structural defects.
  
 Abhishek Sharma, media in-charge of the state tourism minister, said, “Maharaj had informed officials about his visit to Joshimath to greet trekkers who were scheduled to reach there. However, organisers of the event said they were yet to conduct test landings and seek permission from the DGCA. The entire process will take two-three days.”
  
  The minister could not attend the Latu Devta ceremony even as he was on his way to Wan village where the shrine is located. The chopper in which he travelled hovered in the air for a long time before information reached that the helipad had structural faults.
  
  “The helicopter had to hover in the sky as the helipad that was built had faults. I had to return without attending the ceremony. I have asked for an enquiry into the matter and stringent actions will be taken against erring officials,” said Maharaj.
  
  District magistrate Ashish Joshi, in the meanwhile, said the administration had minimal role in Tuesday’s event. It was looked after by  , additional commissioner of Garhwal region and nodal officer of Dronagiri trek.
  
  Joshi informed that a group of 80 trekkers had set off for Badrinath trek from Joshimath on the first day, 50 others on the second day and an equal number of trekkers on the third day. Arrangement of 200 tents for the trekkers has been made on the meadows of Dronagiri while homestays have also been arranged in the nearby villages. The 23 km long trek will take three to five days. It will cover Jumma to Dronagiri and Lower Bagni to Bagni. Besides this arduous trek, the organisers are offering two other small treks of 3.5 km each to two beautiful religious places   and Nandi Kund. The ancient temple of Dronagiri deity is located at Dronagiri Parvat. Nandi Kund is considered an abode for goddess Parvati. It is surrounded by several scenic Himalayan peaks.
