PATNA: Bihar’s famous   Anand Kumar’s biography will soon be published in Malayali, Gujarati, French and Korean as well. 

 This was announced by Canada-based psychiatrist Biju Mathew, who has written the Super-30 founder’s biography, during an interactive session with newsmen in Patna on Saturday.
 
 Super-30 has coached 350-odd economically backward students free of cost to crack the prestigious  . “It took me three years and six months to write the biography, titled ‘Super 30: Changing the World: 30 Students at a Time’,” said Mathew about the book, published in English by Penguin Random House and in Hindi by Prabhat Prakashan. It was released in Patna on June 6 last year.
 
 Mathew, currently on a tour to Patna, said more than 23,000 copies of the book in English was sold across the country while the Hindi version has sold more than one lakh copies. “The book was released in Tamil and Marathi last month. It will be available in Malayali and Gujarati within two months and in French and Korean languages by September 2017,” he said.
 
 Recalling his first encounter with the Bihari prodigy, Mathew said he came to know about him through newspapers and invited him for a lecture in Canada. “Influenced by his dedication to help resourceless pupils shine in life, I asked him if I could write a story on his life journey, and he nodded,” the Canadian said, adding what made Anand special was that the hard-earned name and fame hasn’t changed him.
 
 “This book will benefit students as it teaches you that anyone from any background can rise to the highest level if s/he is determined to rise,” said the psychiatrist.
 
 Anand thanked Mathew for undertaking so much of painstaking research on Super-30 to write the book. “He came to Patna twice; spent days together with my family and even visited my native Beobaha village, my old school and friends, relatives, neighbours and students,” he said and added the doctor even took a train from Patna to Howrah to get a feel of the job of Anand’s father as a   employee.
 
