BHATINDA: Punjab chief minister (CM)  's younger brother,  , will not be in the thick of action at the duo's native village, Badal, in Lambi constituency during an election for the first time in nearly 50 years.

 Before his son   left   (SAD) in 2011 and formed the now-defunct People's Party of Punjab (PPP), 86-year-old Gurdas used to campaign for the CM in Lambi. In the 2012 polls, Gurdas fought against his brother for the first time on a PPP ticket.
 
 This time around, with Manpreet joining the Congress and disbanding PPP, the former MP will neither be campaigning in the village for the Congress candidate, Capt Amarinder Singh, nor would he be contesting the elections due to ill health.
 
 However, talking TOI on Monday , he said he wanted his elder brother to lose.
 
 Gurdial Singh, a resident of Badal village, said the 2012 elections were the first time that the village saw “Pash“ (a nickname for Parkash) and “Das“ (nickname for Gurdas) contest against each other.“If Gurdas will not come to Lambi, this will be the first election in my knowledge when the two will not be seeing each other in the area,“ he said.
 
 Gurdas had come third in the 2012 election fight from Lambi. While Parkash had won, the duo's cousin and Congress nominee Maheshinder Singh Badal was se cond.
 
 He said he would not be able to campaign for Amarinder due to ill health and would stay back in Bathinda. Gurdas, however, kept mum over peoples' anger against Badal senior over acts of sacrilege which culminated in a Sikh throwing a shoe at the CM at a village in Lambi constituency on January 11. Gurdas said times had changed and regime too needed to be changed.
 
 Gurdas was elected as an MP from Fazilka (later disbanded) parliamentary constituency in 1971.
 
 `Lambi fight tough'
 
 Gurdas filed papers from Bathinda Urban constituency on Monday as covering candidate for son Manpreet Badal, who is Congress's nominee from the seat. After filing papers, he said, “Agar Capt Amarinder Singh Lambi chon larda, taan muqabla sakht hovega (If Amarinder contests from Lambi, it will be a tough contest). Log badlav chaunday nay (people want change).“
 
