SRINAGAR: A police constable was killed and two terrorists gunned down in a fierce gun battle between security forces and militants that lasted more than 15 hours, at Nazneenpora village in   district's   on Sunday .

 Four security personnel, including an Army major, two soldiers and one CRPF personnel, were also injured, director general of police, S P Vaid told reporters.
 
 The militants killed in the encounter were identified as Aaquib Bhat, a Hizbul Mujahideen operative, and Saif-ul-lah alias Osama, a Pakistan-based terrorist associated with Jaish-e-Mohammed. Also known as Aaquib Maulvi, Bhat was active in the area for the last three years, police said.
 
 Manzoor Ahmad Naik, the constable killed in the gunfire, was part of special operation group of J&K police.
 
 Acting on a specific input that militants were present in a carpenter's house, security personnel threw a cordon around the house on Saturday evening. Firing began at 6pm, police said. While the Hizb mi litant was killed after the security forces demolished the house using an improvised explosive device around 9am on Sunday , the Pakistani terrorist was alive till late in the evening under the debris of the house.
 
 Police said he fired at the personnel who were searching the burnt house in the evening. He was immediately neutralized, an officer said.
 
 Some local people also attempted to disrupt the operation by hurling stones at the security forces but the situation was brought under control, officials said. Four protesters were injured in clashes between locals and security forces in Tral village following Sunday's encounter. Curfew restrictions were imposed around Tral to prevent people from getting closer to the spot of gun battle.
 
 In a separate incident, three youths were injured in a mysterious blast at Pazalpora village in North Kashmir's Sopore on Sunday morning when they were fiddling with an explosive device, police sources said. While two sustained minor injuries, the third youth has serious injuries on his hand, police said.
 
 Soldier found dead in store room
 
 A soldier committed suicide by shooting himself in Jammu's Poonch district, army sources said on Sunday.“Sapper Roshan Singh of Rashtriya Rifles (RR) was found dead in a storeroom on Saturday evening,“ sources told IANS. Roshan Singh hailed from Punjab. IANS
 
 Jawans rescue 250 civilians stranded in Poonch after two-day-long torrential rain
 
 Prompt assistance by the Army helped rescue 250 civilians who were stranded following roadblocks in Kalai due to torrential rain. Defence spokesperson Jammu Lt Col Manish Mehta said, “Torrential rainfall on March 2 and 3 had resulted in road blocks at Kalai... vehicles got stuck in the bog and some even skidded off the road... Approximately 250 people, including women and children, got stranded. Locals approached the Army formation at Potha which took up relief and recovery operations,“ he said. The Army personnel also ensured that those rescued reached their destination safely by getting road reopened, he said.
 
 
 
