PUNE: The   has issued strict instructions to the four airports in the state to ensure outlets on their premises, including those inside the terminals, don’t sell packaged commodities for more than the   (MRP). 

 The instructions were issued on Tuesday at a meeting convened by the state government with the authorities of Pune (Lohegaon), Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad airports.
 
 Amitabh Gupta, the additional director-general & controller of the Legal   Organization (LMO), which operates under the state food, supplies and consumer department, said the stress was on proper implementation of the acts and provisions laid out in connection with the MRP.
 
 “In the last two months at the Lohegaon Airport in Pune, there were four cases of violations involving outlets inside or on the airport premises. Action in the form of fines was initiated against them. The authorities of the four airports have been told to ensure that MRP violations don’t take place at any cost. The department will hold surprise inspections at regular intervals,” an official told TOI.
 
 At present, there are a total six outlets for food and other commodities inside the Lohegaon airport terminal and on its premises. 
 
 According to officials, the outlets of May Pee Kay Hospitality and Chicago Crust were found overpricing packaged commodities at the  . They were immediately penalized. Attempts to reach the outlets proved futile.
 
 “The (Lohegaon) airport officials will be asking all the outlets concerned to ensure that they adhere to the rules. Officials do carry out checks from time to time, but it will be stricter from now. We will decide soon on the kind of action to be taken,” an airport official said.
 
 A Pune-based businessmen, who requested anonymity, said, “While I have never bought things from the outlets inside the Lohegaon airport, I have heard passengers complaining and arguing with the sales persons a couple of times.”
 
 Last month, the legal metrology department had appealed to the public, including air travellers, to come forward with information if they come across outlets and shops selling packaged commodities at a price higher than the MRP. Three vendors at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai were found violating the norms in December, and action was taken against them. 
 
 “We will strictly go by the rules. If there is an outlet with five partners, each of them will be fined Rs2,000. Also in such cases, we can take other legal action. Last month, we had released some numbers and e-mail addresses where people can provide information and the response has been good,” another metrology department official told TOI.
 
