HYDERABAD: As several issues still remain to be sorted out between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the post-bifurcation scenario, the term of governor   is slated to end this May. Having secured an extension to serve as governor of Chhattisgarh, united Andhra Pradesh and the two new states for a decade, speculation is rife as to whether the BJP-led NDA government will bid adieu to Narasimhan and appoint a person of their choice. 

 Incidentally, Narasimhan shares a good rapport with the   government while in the two states, the perception is that he favours Telangana over AP. Telangana Congress leaders had on Monday in a rare departure from convention criticised the governor, saying that instead of remaining neutral in his capacity as a constitutional head, Narasimhan was openly heaping praises on Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. AP CM Chandrababu Naidu too had conveyed to his ministers that the governor appeared to be leaning towards Telangana.
 
 While NDA sources in Delhi said it was too early to decide on the issue, the names of a few leaders like that of Karnataka legislative council chairman and BJP leader   are doing the rounds as possible replacement for Narasimhan. "The NDA government can appoint two new governors for Telangana and AP respectively or give the charge of the two states to one person. Alternatively, with the division of the institutions under Schedule X of the AP Reorganisation Act pending, there is a possibility of Narasimhan getting an extension as he is well versed on the subject," said BJP sources.
 
 An IPS officer of the 1968 batch belonging to the AP cadre, Narasimhan went on central deputation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in 1972 and remained there till he demitted office as IB director in December 2006. The then UPA government later appointed him as Chattisgarh governor in January 2007. But after the Telangana agitation peaked, Narasimhan was made AP governor in January 2010. On May 3, 2012, the   government gave him a second five-year tenure that will last till May 2, 2017.
 
 When asked about the developments, Raj Bhavan sources told TOI that the governor's office will not react to such reports. 
 
 
