NAVI MUMBAI: The civic proposal to amend city's development control regulations (DCR) in order to provide more   space per tenement faced stiff opposition from the   (GB) members and was set aside on Friday.

 The GB members said that the amendment will end redevelopment plans for gaothans and Cidco-built LIG and MIG buildings. “While disposing the 2011 PIL, the court had instructed   to conduct a survey on the existing parking requirements. This was not done and the court came up with the one parking space for one tenement directive. This cannot be implemented as the gaothan plots and Cidco-built tenements start at a mere 100 sq m,” said mayor Sudhakar Sonawane, who set aside the proposal. The civic administration must conduct a survey and a file a report in the court, he ordered.
 
 The proposed amendment was in adherence to the high court order that was passed in response to 2016 PIL filed by social activist Sandeep Thakur, stating civic failure to implement the revised parking  , as per 2011 court order (see box). 
 
 The court rapped NMMC for inaction and issued a contempt of court notice as well for not seeking extension of time nor seeking for recalling the directions issued on the subject. 
 
 The town planning department proposed to amend the DCR by providing one parking space for one tenement having a built-up area up to 45 sq m or carpet area up to 35 sq m, as per court order. The existing provision is one parking for 4 tenements up to 30 sq m each. 
 
 “NMMC is required to issue building permission with a revised policy. The court directive is a result of the 2016 PIL,” said a town planning official. 
 
 “If the proposal is approved, no redevelopment project will take off. To provide parking space for say, 6 flats in a 100 sq m plot, the developer must build multi-level parking,” said corporator Kishor Patkar.
 
 Thakur said that NMMC failed to implemented the revised parking policy. “The general body’s refusal will not hold, as it is a court order. The administration can bypass the GB order after completion of 90 days and send the proposal to urban development department,” he said. 
 
 
