TIRUVANNAMALAI: Officials of the   and Endowments Charitable (HR & CE) on Monday retrieved 3.35 acre out of 4.48 acre of department land near   along   from encroachers. 

 Assistant commissioner of HR & CE, Tiruvannamalai, S Mohana Sundaram, Executive Officer (EO) of Padavedu Shree   K Periya Maruthupandian along with revenue divisional officer of Tiruvannamalai Uma Maheswari and assistant superintendent of police of Tiruvannamalai sub-divisional   carried out the drive to retrieve the land. 
 
 “Following the high court order, we have carried out the eviction drive and retrieved a portion of the land. It belongs to Thanipadi Endowment which is under the administrative control of Renugammbal Temple,” EO Maruthupandian told TOI.
 
 It is the flower garden (Nandhavanam) of Sri Arunachaleswarar Temple. Flowers collected from the garden would be used for presiding the temple’s deities for the Ukshakala pooja, an age-old practice, he added.
 
  However, a group encroached upon the garden and stopped supplying flowers to the temple 15 years ago. Subsequently, they also converted the garden into an agriculture field.
 
  C M Sivababu of  , who filed the writ petition in this regard in court, said the property was mentioned in page no 147 of the Arunachaleswarar temple property records. 
 
 “The HC passed an order in August 2014, directing the officials to take necessary action to the land which is public property, the official. Then Collector Gnanasekaran had also directed the revenue officials to take necessary action to materialise the court’s order, but the officials are taking action only now,” said Sivababu.
 
 He, however, said that the officials retrieved three-fourth of the land out of 4.48 acre of land. Ironically, the revenue officials had issued patta for the portion of the land. The value of the land estimated around Rs 5 crore. 
 
  “We have initiated action to cancel the patta obtained by encroachers. Soon, the land will be retrieved,” Maruthupandian said.
 
