NEW DELHI: Sacked Delhi minister   today alleged that   chief   is connected to a 'hawala' scam, or money laundering scheme.

 Mishra further alleged that Kejriwal is making a Delhi businessman Mukesh Kumar - referred to in a video as   - the fall guy, by getting him to falsely claim he donated Rs 2 crore to AAP. 
 
 "This is all an elaborate ploy to launder money, to convert black money into white," Mishra alleged, adding that Kejriwal was the kingpin of this elaborate conspiracy.
 
 On May 14, Mishra alleged that 
  was transferred to AAP's coffers through four shell companies. Sharma or Kumar claimed yesterday he was the one who donated that money.
 
 "I donated the money to AAP because I thought AAP has come into politics to serve the poor," Kumar or Sharma said in a video that was shared on Twitter yesterday. 
 
 Kejriwal retweeted the video in which the man claimed that he owns the four companies, that all of them are genuine and that he donated Rs 2 crore to AAP because he believed the party "will do good" for the public.
 
  
  
  Mishra today alleged that Kumar or Sharma wasn't telling the whole truth. 
 
 "That video will come back to bite Kejriwal because I can show that Mukesh Kumar is the sacrificial lamb here and that he didn't donate Rs 2 crore", Mishra said. 
 
 
 
 The suspended AAP member then exhibited four letters - of unknown provenance - he claimed were letters of donation of Rs 50 lakh each to AAP. Of the four, he said, only two were signed by Sharma. 
 
 
 
 
 "This implies that Sharma only donated Rs 1 crore. Where did the other Rs 1 crore come from," Mishra asked.
 
 He further alleged that part or all of this Rs 2 crore donation was made a day before the municipal corporation elections last month, making the money "even more dubious".
 
 "When the   asked Kejriwal where the Rs 2 crore came from he said he didn't know. I challenge him to say they came from Mukesh Kumar," said Mishra.
 
 On May 14, Mishra alleged that AAP leaders close to Kejriwal concealed donations from the public, lied to the   (EC) and laundered money using 16 shell companies.
 
 He then made a presentation - without official bank documentation - that he claimed included account information of the party.
 
 He alleged a huge discrepancy in 2013-2014 and 2015-2016 between the amounts AAP has in the bank, what it declared to the EC and what it made public on its website.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
