PUNE: A day after Shiv Sena’s president Uddhav Thackeray declared in Mumbai that his party will not join hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the   in the state, the party’s unit in Pune on Friday blamed the   for the break-up. 

 In a statement, the party unit blamed the “BJP’s arrogance resulting from power and success” for both parties parting ways. The Sena leaders claimed they will fight against the BJP the same way they do against the   and the Congress.
 
 The announcement of a split brought cheer to many. “We can fight the elections as there was less chance of us getting tickets in case of an alliance,” a ticket hopeful, requesting anonymity, said. Sena workers were jubilant after the announcement and celebrated the break-up by beating drums, dancing and bursting crackers.
 
 “Every party has a right to expand its base. But if a collation had taken place for a larger cause, all partners should respect it. They should show some decency of not making baseless allegations against each other. But the BJP has not followed these norms. They never wanted to join hands with us. On the contrary, they want to help the NCP and the Congress in some places,” city unit chief Vinayak Nimhan said.
 
 The Sena had secured 15 seats in the last civic election and BJP had won 26 seats in Pune. The discussions on forging an alliance were on at the city-level but they did not work out as the Sena top brass decided against one.
 
 The coalition between NCP and Congress too was hanging in the balance till late on Friday as seat-sharing equations between both parties could not be finalized.
 
 “The Congress has a historical relevance in Pune. The performance of the party was good during the previous elections in the city. But the NCP is giving us secondary treatment over seat-sharing. So the party should now look to fight the election on its own,” Congress leader Gopal Tiwari said.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go the polls on February 21 and the results will be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have registered for this election to elect 162 corporators. A party will have to win 81 seats to gain power single-handedly.
 
