SHIMLA: As many as 204 flying squads and an equal number of   would be deployed to check the  , liquor, drugs and other freebies in  . Besides, the vehicles used by flying squads would be fitted with the GPS to track their movement.

 While interacting with   on Monday , chief election commissioner   said the income tax officials would also be deployed to monitor money being spent by the candidates. He said one additional commissioner of income tax, six deputy commissioners and deputy directors of income tax and 17 income tax officers would be deployed during the elections in the in the state.
 
 He said the central police force will be used for confidence-building measures along with the district electoral officers and the SPs to reassure the voters. He said strict vigil would be maintained to check the crossborder smuggling of drugs, liquor and other illicit items. He said international borders, border districts and inter-state borders would be appropriate ly subjected to surveillance, adding that webcastingCCTV coveragevideography would be provided at the border check posts and at polling stations where needed.
 
 He said all critical polling stations and those within the vulnerable areas would be covered under these arrange these arrangements. A mobile app-based complaint system regarding abuse of money would also be activa ted in each district, said Jo ti. He said that a state-wide 24x7 control room would be setup with toll free number 1800-180-8089 and a dedica ted email id would also be made operational for the purpose.
 
 The CEC said three air intelligence units of income tax authorities would be set up at Shimla, Kullu and Kangra airports besides income tax teams would be deployed at the railway stations also. He said movement of money through banking channels, especially suspicious transactions, would also be monitored. He said after the announcement of elections, affidavit filed by candidates would be uploaded on the chief electoral officer's website by 7pm for the notice of the voters and the income tax authorities.
 
