ALLAHABAD:   filed her   as an   from   on Monday. Sources said Gupta filed her nomination to back her husband, Bharatiya Janata Party member Nand Kumar Gupta ‘Nandi’, in case his nomination is rejected.

 A city-based businessman, Gupta was a former Bahujan Samaj Party minister but he switched to BJP after a brief stint with Congress. 
 
 Abhilasha is among the 49 candidates who filed their papers on the concluding day of   at Collectorate and Sadar Tehsil on Monday. 
 
 “I am here to file my nomination as an Independent candidate to support from husband. In case his nomination or candidature is rejected than I will contest on his behalf,” she told TOI. However, the mayor refused to say anything about campaigning for her husband. She has filed three set of papers.
 
 Gupta had already filed his nomination papers from the same constituency on February 4. The mayor was also seen canvassing for her husband in various areas of the assembly constituency till Sunday.
 
 “The decision has nothing to do with BJP and it is my decision to backup my husband,” she added.
 
 However, party sources said that Gupta had asked her to file papers following his fear of his nominations getting rejected.
 
 “There is nothing new about it as even in the 2012 assembly elections 2012 she filed papers from the same seat as her husband. Both will campaign in their areas on Tuesday also, said a party worker. If all goes well, Abhilasha is expected to withdraw her papers on February 9.
 
 Meanwhile, alliances between political parties hit rough patches in Allahabad on the last day of nominations. The Soraon assembly contiuency went into Apna Dal’s kitty after its tie-up with BJP. However, on Monday both BJP’s Surendra Chowdhary and Apna Dal’s Saroj filed their nomination from the seat.
 
 Likewise, as per the seat-sharing agreement between Congress and Samajwadi Party, Congress candidate Suresh Kumar was supposed to file his nomination from Bara but SP’s Ajay Bharati too filed his nominations from the seat. 
 
 The Election Commission may place two or more electronic voting machines in view of a large number of candidates contesting from most of the constituencies.
 
 Independents and newly-formed political parties including Lohia Samaj Party, Vikas Party, Lohia Kranti Party, Pragatisheel Samaj Party and Anjan Admi Party among others dominated the nominations on the last day.
 
 
