PUNE: An insight into eco-friendly practices marked the Times NIE News Makers' Meet 2016-17 that was held at Suhana eco-farm in Yavat recently. 

 The meet, attended by 150 teachers and students, was held in association with Suhana Spices. Anand Chordia, technical director of   and founder director of eco-factory foundation, briefed the gathering on the organic culture practised at Suhana farm, while giving them a walk-through of the Indian brand's legacy built over the years.
 
 Focusing on holistic development over individual interests, Chordia highlighted the importance of engaging skilled labour in order to strengthen the workforce in industries. "Every piece of land can be utilized to make green spaces, be it in houses, colleges, offices or societies. With compact spaces in cities, one can opt for urban farming," he said.
 
 Spread over five acre, Suhana eco-farm largely comprised farm land that cultivated about more than 40 varieties of exotic and endemic crops using organic methods. Students witnessed cultivation in polyhouse, honeybee culture and cattle breeding. 
 
 "The visit has compelled students to think on different lines. They can be encouraged to take up agriculture as a serious career option. The practical demonstrations helped them to relate to and understand concepts in a better way," Lata Dini, English and geography facilitator from  , said.
 
 The waste management plant provided a one-stop solution to all kinds of waste, from biodegradable kitchen waste to plastic. Students were explained the process of composting using different composting units. 
 
 Volunteers also explained the process of making natural fertilizers and pest repellents using cow urine and basic ingredients. 
 
 Tanaya Devadhe of standard VIII from City International School, Satara Road, said, "The session was very informative. The farm was an ideal one where no factory waste was let out in the surroundings. Many ideas like drum farming and plastic recycling should be replicated. I am now inspired to install a composting unit to treat kitchen waste at home."
 
 The Suhana factory gave students a sneak peek into food production and packaging. Intricacies involved in the food production industry from refining of raw materials to processing and from packing to quality control assessments were shown to participants. Later, they visited the chemical and microbiology laboratory where sample products are examined and tested under various parameters for quality check before distribution.
 
 Visit to the solar powered state-of-the-art warehouse in Bhuleshwar exhibited the process of storing goods using stackers, followed by loading and unloading operations.
 
 "The best thing about the warehouse was its cleanliness. Also, the fact that waste products like drums and barrels were recycled for decor and other purposes is commendable. The farm experience was an unparalleled one ," Om Bhansali of Std IX from The Bishop's School, Camp, said. 
 
 The day-long visit concluded with a report writing activity. "We want every student and citizen to value their environment. Residents in cities should also undertake farming and inculcate waste management practices in daily life," Chordia added.
 
