GURUGRAM: Four more people were arrested in Kanpur late on Sunday for their alleged role in the Manappuram  , the police said on Monday. According to DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, it was an arduous task to find the absconding four, as they had run away from their houses. However, the police managed to track them down to Kanpur’s Rail Bazar area with the help of the UP police following a tip-off.

 “The Uttar Pradesh Police have played a commendable role in helping us nab these four accused. We would like to acknowledge the support of superintendent of police, Kanpur (south),” Kuhar said.
 
 With this, the Gurgaon police has managed to arrest all eight accused for their alleged role in the February 9 gold heist at the financing compnay.
 
 The accused identified as Arsad, Danish, Wasif and Mohammed Sahi were brought to Gurgaon on Monday evening, produced before a duty magistrate, who sent them to police custody. However, no gold was found in their possession, and cops plan to visit Kanpur again to recover the booty following their interrogation. 
 
 According to police, two of the four accused, Arsad and Wasif, had criminal records and were known to Vikas Gupta, who was arrested on February 11 for their alleged involvement in the  . 
 
 Danish and Sahi were local thugs who were involved in fights and drug peddling in their locality. The four had arrived in Gurgaon on February 9 morning and left for Kanpur after committing the crime the same day. They reached Kanpur at 1am on February 10. 
 
 During the heist, Bobby was stationed outside the Manappuram outlet and keeping a watch, while the other seven had gone inside to execute the robbery. The four had taken a small share of the money that they looted from the outlet and were waiting for the final payment after they sold the gold.
 
 Gupta, who had accompanied the police to Kanpur to help trace these four, had contacted them while he and his friends were planning the robbery. “These four were approached for help because Gupta and the other three alone could not have executed the entire robbery,” a police officer told TOI.
 
 
