CHENNAI: Shortly after the Madras high court suggested a CBI probe into the  , DMK working president M K   said state health minister C Vijaya Baskar, DGP T K Rajendran and former   police commissioner S George should be held under the Goondas Act. 

 “The government must arrest the health minister under the Goondas Act. Following this Rajendran and George must also be held under the Act. Only after the arrest of all three, the government should crack down on traders and vendors who are selling gutkha,” said Stalin. 
 
 Asked about the visits of health minister to New Delhi in the name of seeking exemption for Tamil Nadu from National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), Stalin said, “The income tax and gutkha cases are hanging like an albatross around the minister’s neck. He must be seeking the Centre’s help to save himself from the cases,” said Stalin. 
 
 After the Madras high court dismissed the government’s appeal on reserving 85% of the seats, Stalin said the government must resign. “The government has confused itself as well as the students aspiring to join medical colleges. The future of students hangs in a balance. Vijaya Baskar must immediately resign. The government must get the President’s nod for the act passed by the assembly. If it fails then all AIADMK MPs must resign,” said Stalin. 
 
 The leader of the opposition criticised the government for beating up contract workers in Neyveli. “I condemn the use of police force by the government on contract workers who were observing a democratic protest,” said Stalin. 
 
 In another statement, the DMK leader criticised the Centre and state governments for not lowering the GST rate on textiles. “There are many workers who are employed in powerlooms, handlooms and textile industries in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts. The state government has surrendered to the Centre and is not able to solve any problem faced by the people. The Centre must immediately convene the   and lower the GST rate on textile,” said Stalin. He also criticised finance minister D Jayakumar for not getting relief for Tamil Nadu-based businessmen under the GST.
 
