VELLORE: Former AIADMK minister   will observe a token   in front of the Vellore collectorare if the district administration doesn’t force contractors to resume construction work on a   on the Chennai-Bengaluru National Highway 48 in Sathuvachari.

 Former chief   and leader of the AIADMK J Jayalalithaa had ensured that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) sanctioned Rs 2 crore for the subway project. The fund was allocated a year ago. However, the project was yet to take off, said Vijay, who was also the former MLA of Vellore constituency. He met collector S A Raman during the public grievance day meeting and highlighted the issues.
 
 “The subway was one of the poll promises of the former CM and she took efforts to get the fund from NHAI. We have also acquired land from the Senguntha Mudualiyar community for the project, which was handed over to L & T. But the work has not been taken up till date,” he said.
 
 The project was given top priority as frequent accidents took place at the spot. “It is the duty of the district administration to keep track of the work and insist the contractors to complete it on time. If the work did not commence within a month, I will observe a token fast along with the residents of Sathuvachari in front of collectorate,” he added.
 
 Expressing displeasure over non-utilisation of the infrastructure and basic amenities created under the Constituency Development Fund during his period, he said several of the development works and buildings constructed during his tenure have not been opened for public use.
 
 Listing out the works undertaken in the constituency development fund, he said modernised toilets were constructed at a cost of Rs 30 lakh and Rs 20 lakh in Vellore New Bus Stand and Old Bus Stand respectively. A multi-purpose hall was constructed at Rs 90 lakh in HR & CE land in Perumugai, a gym for both men and women was constructed on the premises of collectorate at Rs 30 lakh, besides constructing a swimming pool in the name of former CM MGR at Rs 67 lakh during his tenure.
 
 
