MUMBAI: Over the past few days, a “strawberry candy” has had city parents worried. A circular originally issued by an Andheri school, warning parents about a candy-like  , has made it to several WhatsApp groups. 

 The circular says it contains  , a synthetic drug and an addictive stimulant. “There is a type of crystal meth going around that looks like   pop rocks (candy that sizzles and pops in your mouth). It smells like strawberry and it’s being handed out to kids in schoolyards. They are calling it strawberry meth or strawberry quick… Please instruct your children not to accept candy from strangers,” it reads. 
 
 DCP Ashok Dudhe, city police spokesman, said, “We have received information about such a racket and alerted the anti-narcotics cell. We are working on our information and also appeal to members of the public that if they have any input, please share it with the police.” A narcotics control bureau official said he had sent an undercover team to some suspects to buy the drug. But the suspects bluntly told the team that they don’t indulge in drugs. “Instead of issuing the circular, the school should have alerted the police,” he said.
 
 The circular was put up on the school’s notice board a few days ago, said a parent and since then it’s gone viral on WhatsApp. “We don’t know which school put it up but it has got us worried. I have shown it to my son and told him to be careful,” said a parent of a Class X student from Dadar. 
 
 Similar instances have occurred in the past as well when schools have had to issue warnings about drug use in their vicinity. “We too received the message through WhatsApp and from parents. So we decided to check with school counsellors but found no such complaints for now. We will keep an eye out but don’t want to create panic,” said Father Francis Swamy, principal, St Mary’s School (ICSE), Mazgaon. The drug was a concern for schools in the city in 2010 too. 
 
 Following similar worries, in October last year, S M Shetty School and Junior College in Powai had adopted a policy on drug detection in school bags . The policy stated that it aimed to support to those whose use of drugs interfered with their academic performance.
 
 
