LUCKNOW: Two men from Rae Bareli were on Friday arrested for their alleged involvement in the   that took place en-route the   on Thursday. Survivor Vimla (38), a resident of Unchahar, was returning to Lucknow from her village of Savaiya Dhani to rejoin work at Sheroes hangout cafe when she was allegedly forced to drink acid on Thursday afternoon. 

 Additionally, three woman constables were also suspended by police authorities after a photograph of them clicking a selfie while on duty in Vimla’s room went viral on social media. Police sprung into action only when chief minister   paid a surprise visit to Vimla at the hospital on Friday afternoon. 
 
 “Bondhu Singh and Guddu have been arrested on the FIR filed by the victim’s husband,” confirmed the Rae Bareli SP. Vimla has, earlier, been a victim of multiple crimes against her, including gang-rape, attempt to murder and a previous acid attack. She had been fighting for justice since 2008. 
 
 Yogi assured protection to Vimla and handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to her husband Santlal as immediate relief along with directions for free treatment at the hospital. CM also asked SSP Manzil Saini to give a detailed response as to why she was not provided protection even when she had been assured the same after a threat letter had reached her employer, Sheroes cafe, in January. 
 
 While the CM made a quick visit, he also directed ADG, Railways, to submit a detailed report on the incident that took place on the train. Ministers Rita Bahuguna Joshi and Swati Singh also visited the survivor recuperating at KGMU.
 
 After being forced to drink acid on Thursday afternoon, Vimla was found at the Lucknow station by Premlata, a GRP constable, who rushed her to KGMU’s Trauma Centre. Early on Friday morning, she was shifted to the Gandhi ward where the CM met her. Later, to keep Vimla under ‘conservative treatment’ she was re-shifted to Trauma Centre’s ICU.
 
 “At the moment, experts are monitoring her closely and ascertaining where the acid injury has been caused — internally and externally,” said Dr Ved Prakash, co-incharge of ICU. Additionally, Prof Haider Abbas, faculty incharge, Trauma Centre, said, “We will conduct an endoscopy to ascertain the extent of the corrosive liquid’s effect. But that can be done only when the immediate injury in the throat allows us to do so.”
 
 Vimla was earlier allegedly gang raped on December 11, 2008, physically assaulted on February 19, 2011, after she filed a case against the perpetrators in 2009, who then threw acid on her on October 25, 2013. The threat letter received at the cafe on January 18, 2017, said if her job was not taken away, acid would run in her veins instead of blood. She had been demanding protection from her repeated perpetrators but only got assurances.
 
