NEW DELHI: The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) has been told by the   (CoA) to get a mandate from its members and thereby empower its acting secretary   to negotiate the financial terms with the   ( ).

 The CoA also told the representatives of the state units that negotiating with the world governing body to raise their demand to $570 million is out of question. They were told that the best way to combat the situation is to avoid a confrontationist approach. "The members were told that if they had any problem with the finance bit, they would have to take up the matter at the ICC's governance level," a state association member, who attended the meeting, said.
 
 The CoA, however, re-emphasised that India will take part in the   and continue to negotiate with the ICC to increase its share from the world governing body's revenue.
 
 "The SGM may be divided on whether to send the Indian team for the Champions Trophy but the CoA is sure about its priorities. Don't be surprised if a majority of the members bat for India's participation in ICC's event," a source revealed.
 
 Sources told TOI that the representatives of BCCI's affiliated bodies, who met the CoA in the Capital on Saturday ahead of the crucial Special General Meeting in the Capital, were also asked to present a consolidated list of grievances regarding the Lodha committee's administrative reforms, which they have been unable to implement due to "practical problems".
 
 It was also revealed that some of the members of the board again asked the Supreme Court-appointed CoA to re-consider those four demands of the old guard - three-year cooling off, one-state one-vote theory, 70-year old age bar and consolidated term of nine years.
 
 On hearing the demands of the state bodies, the CoA asked the state association members to go back to the SGM and take a fresh call on how they would manage to implement the Lodha reforms.
 
 It also assured the members that if the CoA would agree with certain objections raised by  , it would make a combined appeal to the Supreme Court.
 
 Meanwhile, CoA member   wanted to know from board officials why the previous regime had a 60-year cap on the selectors if they wished to stay in their posts forever. "The CoA is looking at the possibility of making the state bodies implement the reforms," the source added.
 
 
