PANAJI: Despite awareness activities conducted by the forest department, and a vaccination drive by the directorate of health services to curb the ‘Kyasanur Forest Disease’ virus (KFD) in Goa, many residents fail to show up for subsequent doses after the first one, putting many at risk.

 Over 70 KFD cases, also known as ‘monkey fever”, have been detected in Goa since January. The   disease is caused by the KFD virus transmitted by a tick bite which has been infected with the virus. “As many as 8,784 people have got themselves vaccinated with the first dose, but only 3,421 showed up for the second dose. And, only 999 people showed up for the booster dose,” said state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betotkar quoting figures from March 2016 to mid-May 2017.
 
 He said that people are not prioritizing their health over their daily chores, and insisted that it is every individual’s responsibility to take the second/booster dose.
 
 There have been reports about monkeys encroaching into cashew plantations and close to areas of human habitation, thus increasing the chances of infecting villagers. A recent PIL (public interest litigation) filed by a farmer sought permission for gun licences to tackle infected monkeys attacking people.
 
 Animal activist,   of the   said, “The forest is their territory that humans have encroached. The solution for KFD virus should be in terms of medication, not culling of monkeys.”
 
 Besides creating awareness among public, the forest department has undertaken surveillance activities to look for monkey carcasses deep in the forests. Once a monkey carcass is found, the forest department intimates the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services to conduct a post-mortem. After this, the carcass is disposed in a scientific manner.
 
 The live monkeys continue to carry the disease, roam freely in the forests and suffer till death puts them out of their misery. Asked if vaccinating monkeys could be a solution, a forest wildlife official said, “It is very difficult to capture wild monkeys lets alone vaccinate or sterilize them.” 
 
