AURANGABAD: After the municipal body recently black listed one of its contractors, clouds of uncertainty are looming over the ten road projects that he was executing. The municipal chief has recently banned   after he found that the contractor has used substandard material to construct the Jyotinagar road. 

 The contractor was executing 12 road projects in the city. Out of these, four road projects are in the stage of completion, but a significant amount of work is pending in the remaining projects. The contractor was executing whitetopping work of five roads being built with the state government’s special funding of Rs 24 crore. Besides, he was also completing projects planned under the deferred payment scheme. 
 
 But  , municipal commissioner, on Sunday, said that the contractor will have to complete all the pending projects.
 
 “We have black listed the contractor after we found that his work at one of the sites was not up to the mark. The civic body will not assign any new project to him but we will complete all the allotted projects under the supervision of technical experts,” he said.
 
 But   leader of the house in   said that the civic body is compromising on quality. “How can the civic body ask the contractor to execute the remaining projects when it has been proved that he has done unsatisfactory work. There is possibility that the contractor may again use substandard material in other projects. The AMC should not allow him to work,” he said.
 
 The municipal body has decided to closely monitor the work of all the remaining road projects to ensure quality. 
 
 Recently, Bakoria while inspecting the road in Jyotinagar that was built by the contractor found that the newly built facility had developed cracks. It also came to the fore that a third-party inspection done by a local agency had approved the projects and the contractor had raised a bill of Rs 70 lakh. But Bakoria asked a Pune-based institute to re-examine the road and based on its findings, he blacklisted the contractor. 
 
