GUWAHATI: Chairperson of the   ( )   on Thursday said important human rights issues regarding the marginalised sections in the region should be brought to the notice of the commission so that it can take cognizance of the matter. 

 Dattu, who was in the city to inaugurate a two-day camp and start proceedings for the hearings of a number of cases for the states of   and  , stressed on the effectiveness of the Centre's flagship schemes so that the rights of the marginalised sections are not violated.
 
 Answering a query by TOI on the incident of a youth carrying his brother's corpse on a bicycle in rural Majuli in the absence of any basic infrastructure and limited accessibility to proper healthcare, Dattu said the commission is aware of such incidents and recalled a similar incident in Odisha last year and stressed that such issues needed to be brought to the notice of the commission.
 
 "Such cases are taken up by the commission but it needs to be brought to the notice of the panel," said Dattu.
 
 On the first day of the camp, the commission looked into 43 cases under two division benches. "Many of the pending cases were heard to provide relief to the people concerned. We had invited applications and complaints from the people of marginalised sections," added Dattu.
 
 Cases related to forest rights of Chakmas, child labour, trafficking of girls and an incident of a minor tribal girl being raped were among the many hearings of the day. Deaths due to police action and custodial deaths also featured in the hearings. 
 
 The state governments of Assam and Meghalaya paid compensations amounting to Rs 259.5 lakh to victims or their families as a result of the commission's intervention in a number of cases related to human rights violations.
 
 The commission also issued notice under section 18 of the Protection of Human Rights Act in an alleged custodial death. In 13 other cases, the commission received reports and were taken on record for analysis by the investigation division of the commission for further consideration.
 
 
