NEW DELHI: For cancelling a 40-metre   estimated to cost Rs 25.45 lakh, the   after 22 years was ordered by the   to pay the contractor Rs 5.45 crore, thanks to the stringent Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006.

 The MSME Act calculates compound interest on the amount payable at three times the bank rate and this led the government getting saddled with more than 20 times the cost of the project without the bridge being constructed on Demagiri-Marpara Road in Mizoram.
 
 The contracting firm belonged to the MSME category and hence the calculation of interest in the dispute attracted provisions of the Act.
 
 The Union government in 1995 had entered into a contract with Hindustan Metal Refining Works Pvt Ltd for design, supply and erection of pre-fabricated steel components for the bridge for an amount of Rs 25.45 lakh. The contract was to be executed in six months. Despite repeated grant of extensions, the private firm could not complete the work, leading to the Centre terminating the contract in 2005. The dispute was placed before an arbitrator.
 
 In 2009, the arbitrator awarded the private firm Rs 1.65 crore, which included Rs 86.63 lakh on account of compound interest.The   government took three years to challenge the award before the   district judge, who dismissed the appeal as the Centre failed to deposit 75% of the awarded amount before the court as mandated by law. The Centre moved the HC against dismissal of its appeal and in March 2014, deposited Rs 1.23 crore in the court as 75% of the award amount, including compound interest till date. The firm argued that 75% of the award amount with interest came to Rs 2.62 crore, forcing the Centre to deposit the same in 2015.
 
 On September 23 last year, the HC dismissed the Centre’s appeal and faulted it for contending that the firm was not a small scale industry unit very late in the day. A SC bench dismissed the Centre’s appeal, thus saddling it with Rs 5.45 crore liability towards thefirm.
 
 
