BHOPAL: Every person or vehicle passing by the   on the service road behind Devi Mandir bus stop in Saket Nagar stops for a look. Some take selfies. Bhopal’s horror house has turned into a visiting spot after the  .

 Locals say that people from different parts of the city are flocking to MIG-62 over the past few days, triggering some sort of  . On Sunday, a man riding a scooter with her little daughter stopped by, showed her the house and made weird noises to frighten her.  , a resident of No. 10 area, who was in the crowd gawking at the house, said, “This is murder is very scary. That’s why I came here to see this house.”
 
 Standing at the gates, an elderly lady of the ashram that runs on the ground floor, said, “We could never imagine in our nightmares that he could kill someone and bury the body in the room where he was living.” The ashram has been running here on rent for at least 10 years. It was Udyan’s father who had taken them in as tenants. The ashramites knew both parents and were speechless when told that police suspected him of killing them, too (their bodies hadn’t been dug up then).
 
 An ashramite, asking not to be named, said, “His parents used to come here for a month or two and introduced Udyan to us. They told us that he was studying engineering. But we never saw them after 2010 (that is the year they were murdered). Udyan started living here regularly after 2011. We kept asking him for his parents’ contact number, but he never gave it to us.”
 
 Also in the Sunday crowd was 20-year-old Anuska Shukla and her brother Harsh, a Class XII student. “We have come to see the house out of curiosity. I wanted to see the scene of such a chilling crime,” she said. Harsh added, “Something like this has happened in Bhopal for the first time. The boy was well educated but see how brutally he murdered his girlfriend. It’s horrifying.”
 
 Rakesh Viswakarma, who runs a nearby shop, said, “Many people have come here to see the house. Whoever passes by stops their vehicle for a moment and takes a look.”
 
 Pankaj Ringe, who lives next to MIG-62, said, “It’s very disturbing that such a gory crime took place in the house next to where I live residing with my family. My father knew Udyan’s father. But very rarely have I interacted with him. We are not scared, but we are upset by the stench coming from house.”
 
