NEW DELHI: The bodies of   Munnawar Hasan Rana’s wife and two daughters, who were killed by his business partner in April, were exhumed from the bed of a barren river near Daurala village in Meerut by a police team on Tuesday. They will be sent for a DNA match.

 Police have requested that a medical board conduct the autopsy. The bodies of the politician’s sons were recovered on Monday. Rana’s body has been handed over to his family members from Kairana.
 
 Two more contract killers involved in the murders are yet to be arrested. Apart from Rana’s business partner, Sahib Khan alias Bunty, two supari killers and a common friend have been arrested. Bunty said that he had paid Rs three lakh for the six murders to four shooters from Muzaffarnagar.
 
 A list of six-seven properties grabbed or acquired by Bunty and Rana in areas like Burari,  , Bhajanpura and Sant Nagar have been prepared by the police. These properties had become the bone of contention between the business partners.
 
 A team has been ordered to raid Bunty’s house in Alipur to recover forged papers of three properties in Burari that he had planned to sell and set up a farmhouse in Alipur, said DCP (North) Jatin Narwal.
 
 The prime accused said that he was introduced to Rana seven years ago. Rana had approached his father, who owned an iron forging shop, to get a gate constructed for a disputed plot in Alipur. Bunty had been Rana’s confidante since then.
 
 He claimed that Rana used him to threaten people and grab disputed properties, but never gave him his due. Bunty also provided men for Rana’s security after he received threats from rivals in northeast Delhi.
 
 Rana had married Ishrat against the wishes of her family members 20 years ago and feared that they would hunt him down and kill him. He had then asked Bunty to provide him a country-made pistol.
 
 Bunty started thinking about usurping Rana’s properties after he struck several multi-crore deals with land dealers in Swaroop Nagar and Alipur and bought an SUV and two expensive motorbikes for his children. He had gifted Bunty a chemist shop. The claims made by Bunty and his associates are being verified by the police.
 
 
