AHMEDABAD/MEHSANA: Around 120 people including dalit rights leader Jignesh Mevani, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students’ leader   and Patidar leader  , were detained in Mehsana on Wednesday evening as they began their rally ‘Azadi Kuch’ or Freedom March to mark the first anniversary of Una flogging incident. 

 All detained were released after few hours.
 
 An offence was lodged late evening on Wednesday against Mevani, Kumar and 15 others for unlawful assembly under the Indian Penal Code section 143 with the A-Division police station of Mehsana town. They were detained from the Mehsana bypass circle on the Ahmedabad-Mehsana highway.
 
 Earlier in the day, hundreds of dalits from across north Gujarat gathered at Somnath Chowk under the banner of Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM) where Mevani, Kumar and Patel addressed the crowd on dalits issues and how they are being targeted in the name of cow protection. The public meeting went on for over four hours. Psephologist-turned politician, Yogendra Yadav, who floated his own party Swaraj India, also spoke on the rights of dalits.
 
 As the members prepared for rally, they were stopped by the Mehsana police and detained as they did not have permission for the programme, which would have culminated in Dhanera town of Banaskantha district on July 18. The key agenda of the march was to mount pressure on Gujarat government for allocating agricultural land to dalits so that they could start a new life with dignity.
 
 The Mehsana district authorities had cancelled the permission granted earlier for the rally. The permission granted on June 27 for the stir was revoked on July 8 by the executive magistrate of Mehsana who cited a fresh advisory issued by the local police about the law and order situation. However, Mevani had then alleged that their permission was revoked at the behest of Gujarat government.
 
 “Looking at the present law and order situation, the police has submitted a fresh report with us and claimed that the rally may cause breach of peace and public order. Thus, we hereby cancel the permission granted on June 27 to hold the rally on July 12,” said the written order of the executive magistrate.
 
