Bhopal: Continuous rains in the city have forced the snakes to slither out of their holes, much to the horror of the residents. 19 snakes were rescued within the city limits on Sunday itself.

 Minutes before Shivraj Singh Chouhan was set to arrive at the state hangar, a saw-scale viper was spotted, stuck in a fence. Snake catcher, Shahid Khan was called to take the venomous reptile away. “Police called me around 1 in the afternoon, and told me about the incident. When I reached there I saw that the snake was stuck in a fence. When I tried to take it out from there, it fell to the ground. It became a little difficult to get it under control once it was on the ground,” said Khan.
 
 Saw-scaled viper is highly venomous and is designated as one of the most dangerous snakes. 
 
 Khan said, after the heavy rains,   has increased considerably in the city. “I have rescued over 30 snakes in the last one week including 24 rat snakes, three russel vipers and three water snakes.”
 
 According to the snake catchers, BHEL, Kolar, Karond, Awadhpuri and Shyamala Hills are the areas where maximum snakes have been sighted and rescued.
 
 Saleem Khan, another snake catcher has rescued over 55 snakes in the last seven days including 11 cobras. Keeping up with the season, the city hospitals have prepped up to deal with incidences of snake bites. “Snake bites have increased over the days and most hospitals have received a few cases this last week. We have stocked up on anti-venom vials for emergency treatment at government hospitals and have advised private hospitals to do the same,” said CMHO Sudhir Jaisani.
 
 Zero cases of snake bites have come up in the district hospital, so far. Civil surgeon of JP Hospital, IK Chug, said “We have already stocked anti-venom vials. No cases have come up till now,” said Chug.
 
 Whereas, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital has recorded only two cases of snake bite in the last one month. “Such cases usually increase during this time. As of now, we have received two cases of snake bite,” said Sunil Talreja, PRO, LBS Hospital.
 
 11 cobras rescued from 1 house in the last 10 days
 
 Santosh Sharma was getting ready for work on July 12, when he noticed a snake coiled up near his shoes. On looking further, he saw that there were another three snakes inside his shoe. He alerted Saleem Khan, arrived at his home at Bungalow 74 area. “That day Saleem Khan rescued six cobras from the house. The next day we found another cobra in the lawn,” said Sharma who works at the state biodiversity board. In total, 11 juvenile cobras were rescued from his house. 
 
 On Sunday, Khan was again called to Sharma’s house where he found four cobras hidden beneath the sewing machine. “My wife was working on the sewing machine when she saw something, at first she thought it was a rubber tube, but it started moving. She realised that it was a snake and we asked Khan to reach soon.”
 
 
