NEW DELHI: Sacked AAP minister   on Thursday recorded his statement on oath under the Indian Evidence Act 1872 before Delhi Lokayukta Reva Khetrapal on seven issues related to alleged corruption against the chief minister,  , and his associates.

 His statement was related to his allegations of exchange of Rs 2 crore between Kejriwal and Satyendra Jain, foreign trips by AAP functionaries, delay in action in the water tanker scam, hawala funding through fake companies to AAP and fake bills of Kejriwal's brother-in-law being cleared by PWD. The statements will be used as evidence in the case, said his lawyer. AAP and Delhi government have earlier denied all the allegations. Delhi Lokayukta had initiated proceedings in the matter of alleged exchange of Rs 2 crore in cash between Kejriwal and Jain after Niraj, a member of Delhi BJP's legal cell, filed a complaint on May 9, two days after Mishra levelled the allegation. Mishra told the Lokayukta that he can furnish evidence to back his statements.
 
 The former minister, however, did not tell the Lokayukta when he visited the CM's residence where he claimed to have seen Jain giving the amount to Kejriwal.
 
 “I have made a prayer to CBI to seize CCTV footage of the past three to six months from CM Arvind Kejriwal's residence. CBI is investigating the case. I will give the details as soon as the investigation related to this aspect is completed,“ he said in his statement to the Lokayukta.He also requested the Lokayukta to obtain the details of foreign trips undertaken by AAP functionaries in the past three years.
 
 “Some of the documentary evidence with regard to the issues raised by me are in my possession while other documents are with an independent investigator who is unavailable at the moment,“ Mishra told the Lokayukta. He said on record that he can furnish the documentary evidence after 10 days. Mishra was allowed two weeks.
 
 He also flagged the alleged irregularities in details of donations AAP submitted before   and the income-tax department.
 
 
 
 BJP has demanded chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's resignation based on the statement given by sacked AAP minister Kapil Mishra before the Lokayukta on Thursday.
 
 BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that Mishra has told the Lokayukta that the CM accepted Rs 2 crore from his minister Satyendar Jain in his presence. Tiwari said that if Kejirwal still respects the institution of Lokayuta then he should resign.
 
 Tiwari said, “If Kejriwal has any respect for the institution of Lokayukta then he should resign from the post of Delhi's CM so that fair investigation can be held in the case. Mishra has recorded his statement on oath, before the Lokayukta.“
 
 “It was they who have been demanding Lokpal in the country,“ said Tiwari. 
 
