NAVI MUMBAI: Sixteen families were forcibly evicted from their flats from  , a five-storey  , on the second day of eviction drive on Tuesday by high court receiver and MIDC officials. Officials faced stiff resistance from locals who protested on Thane-Belapur Road.

 NCP MLC Vidya Chavan led the protests after meeting chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in the morning, who reportedly refused to approach the court seeking relief for residents. She sought time from court receiver for voluntary vacation, which was granted just for an hour. So, she led the protest by blocking the busy Thane-Belapur Road with supporters. Police had to detain a few women agitators to control the mob.
 
 Two buildings — Moreshwar and Pandurang apartments — were vacated and sealed on Monday amid large-scale protest.
 
 By dusk, court receiver vacated all the flats and handed them over to MIDC on whose land the building had come up. Later, MIDC sealed the building to initiate further action.
 
 “We got possession of all three buildings in the last two days, which were issued court receiver’s vacation notice,” said Avinash Mali, MIDC deputy engineer.
 
 The drama unfolded when cops and court receiver with MIDC staff approached the building to vacate the occupants, as the eviction notice expired on February 13. For 10 minutes, traffic on Thane-Belapur Road came to a standstill before police cleared the rush by dispersing protesters. 
 
 “Taking a cue from the previous day’s protest, we strengthened protection, which overpowered the angry residents. The entire process went off peacefully,” said Chandrakant Katkar, senior police inspector of Rabale MIDC police station.
 
 Talking to TOI, Tulsiram Bhagat, a resident of Bhagat Apartment, said, “I was born and raised here in Digha in a tribal family. This is our land. We can’t be vacated from our own property. From our erstwhile chawl, we made it the building and MIDC had never objected when several such buildings came up in the last two decades.”
 
 As many as 99 buildings in this area were declared illegal by the high court two years ago. Out of which MIDC demolished three and sealed five buildings so far. 
 
 
