PUNE: A security guard was arrested on Monday in connection with the brutal murder of Infosys software engineer Rasila Raju OP on the campus of the IT company at Hinjewadi on Sunday. The police said the guard killed Rasila in a fit of rage after she had reprimanded him for staring at her.

 Rasila (24), who joined Infosys here six months ago following her training in Mysore, was found strangulated to death in the Offshore Dedicated Centre (ODC) room located on the ninth floor of a building on the campus around 8.30pm on Sunday. 
 
 The murder comes barely a month after another woman software engineer, Antara Das, was stabbed to death on December 23 at the Talawade IT Park near here. Four days after the murder, the police had arrested a Bengaluru-based techie for allegedly hatching the conspiracy to kill Antara. 
 
 The Infosys guard, Bhaben Bharali Saikia (27), who was working with the company’s security unit for the last one year, was picked up around 3am on Monday from the   (CST) in Mumbai while he was about to catch a train to his native place in Assam. 
 
 Saikia was seen in CCTV footage entering and exiting the ODC room on multiple occasions between 5pm and 7pm when the murder is suspected to have occurred. The ODC room is a restricted area which can be accessed only by an authorised employee carrying an ID-cum-access card. Rasila was working alone in the room.
 
 Preliminary police investigations reveal that the crime was committed in a fit of rage after Rasila had scolded Saikia and warned that he would be reported to the security officer.
 
 Enraged by her warning, Saikia first followed her into the room on the pretext of taking a count of the computer units. “He kept the door open to enter and exit the room two or three times. The last time he entered the room, he closed the door from inside and strangulated Rasila with a LAN cable and kicked her repeatedly on the face. He left the room using her access card. He even completed his shift around 7pm and left the campus,” assistant commissioner of police Vaishali Jadhav-Mane told TOI. 
 
 Saikia was produced before judicial magistrate first class A S Barulkar who ordered his remand in police custody till February 4. The police remand report states that Saikia used Rasila’s access card to enter and exit the room. It said that the investigators have to recover the clothes Saikia was wearing at the time of the murder and also Rasila’s access card. Prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More told the court that the police were also examining the possibility of any other person being involved in the crime.
 
 In a statement released later, Infosys said, “We are saddened and shocked at this unfortunate incident and the loss of our colleague. Our prayers and sympathies are with our employee’s family and friends. We are focused on assisting the police with their investigation and providing all possible support to her family.”
 
 The incident came to light when the company’s employees from the Bengaluru office found that Rasila, who was interacting with them, was not responding to their calls for an hour. They alerted the   campus associate head under whom Rasila was working. A security guard was sent to check the matter and Rasila was found lying dead on the floor of the ODC room.
 
 When Kothari and other company officials checked the CCTV footage, they found Rasila had first entered the ODC room around 3pm while Saikia entered there around 5 pm. Later, he was seen entering and exiting the room many times. When the officials from the company tried to contact Saikia, his number was not reachable.
 
 
 
 
 After verifying the CCTV footage, a police team went to Saikia’s rented room in Thakarnagar in Hinjewadi. “We found Saikia’s blood-soaked shoes in the room,” senior inspector Arun Waykar of the Hinjewadi police said. The police also learnt that Saikia had told his colleague that he had committed a murder. “He even called his mother and maternal uncle on the phone and told them about the murder,” a police officer said. As many as six teams were sent to different locations to nab Saikia. One of the teams went to CST and arrested Saikia while he was trying to board a train to Assam. 
 
 The police said that during investigations, Saikia admitted to his involvement in Rasila’s murder. “He said he went to his room after the murder, changed his shoes and took a lift in a truck at Wakad. He even told the driver that he had killed a woman. The terrified driver dropped him to Mumbai without charging any money,” Waykar said.
 
 
 
 
 During questioning, Saikia revealed that Rasila had threatened to send an email to the company officials that he was staring at her. Saikia said he feared he would lose his job if she sent the email. On Sunday, he requested Rasila to allow him to enter the room where she was working, saying that the seniors had asked for a computer count. “When she let him in, Saikia claimed he tried to apologise to her and requested her not to send the email. However, when she did not agree, Saikia said he strangled her in a fit of rage and tried to smash her face,” an officer of the Hinjewadi police said.
 
 ACP Vaishali Jadhav-Mane said, “Rasila was working according to the roster and had to come to work on Sunday for a project that she was doing along with her colleague in Bengaluru. Rasila was a fresher and had landed the job through a campus interview.”
 
 Saikia was working at the company for about a year
 
 Saikia, originally from Lakhimpur district in Assam, has been living in Pune since 2009 and was initially working at the Ranjangaon MIDC. He moved to Pune city in 2013. About a year ago, he started working with the private company that provides security to Infosys. “His character verification was completed by the security firm,” said Waykar.
 
