BENGALURU: The Union sports ministry has asked all   (NSFs) to clean up their electoral colleges by allotting voting rights only to their affiliated units from states and Union territories.

 Quoting the   ( ) which calls for one state, one vote, the ministry said that while it was not against other categories of membership in an  , “no class of members other than the affiliated state Union territory units shall have any right to vote.“
 
 The new directive is a reminder of sorts to federations and very relevant after the   recommended a similar step to streamline the constituent members of the  .
 
 Quoting the conditions of para 3.10 of the code, the ministry said: “It has come to the notice that NSFs have given voting rights to members such as sports promotion boards, Associa tion of Indian Universities etc, which is not under the provisions of the NSDCI. It is therefore advised that voting rights given to members who are not state UTs may be withdrawn by the NSFs and the Indian Olympic Association.“ Explaining why sports promotion boards of the government should not get voting rights, sources said this was only to maintain the autonomy of NSFs. “The government has to keep the federations at arm's length. The objective has to be the same for the boards too which belong to the government,“ they said.
 
 All NSFs and IOA have been asked to act on the matter and send a compliance report to the ministry within a month.
 
 While there are a few federations which have encouraged individual and club members to vote, another even stipulates differential vote allotment to its members.
 
 In the case of the All India Tennis Association, in addition to base votes, the federation prescribes bonus votes to its members on the number of events conducted by the state. Of its full members, 21(states) have been allotted five votes each while eight have one vote each. Full members with three votes too figure in their fold. The distribution of votes is unequal in the Indian Golf Union as well. While the number of votes for state associations depend on the number of courses they have, golf clubs, who too have been roped in as members, get votes depending on their yardage and membership.
 
 Yachting Association of India allows clubs to vote as it has no state association as its member. The Equestrian Federation of India, which has only a few state associations as its members, still encourages life members and clubs to vote.
 
 EFI statutes state that state associations, institutions, clubs or unit get two votes while an individual member gets one. One proxy vote is allowed for individual members while state bodies and institutions get two. EFI has since amended its constitution but the imbalance in voting pattern remains.
 
 
