INDORE: The Madhya Pradesh government’s ambitious project of developing   on   basis near Indore suffered a huge setback after the only diamond processing unit of the state, Rosy Blue, abruptly packed its business due to deepening labour unrest and production losses. 

 Rosy Blue, a Belgiam-based diamond processing firm, has winded up its Indore operations this week and the plant has been taken over by  , company’s lawyer Girish Patwardhan said.
 
 Madhya Pradesh is the only diamond-producing state in the country and the state government has proposed a Gems and Jewellery Park opposite to   (IIM) to attract industries. 
 
 Industrialists said deepening labour problems in the state and lack of skilled labour is acting as a deterrent to government’s plans to attract gems and jewellery industry. 
 
 “If such situation persists no company will able to operate from the state. Based on the success of Rosy Blue, the state government has proposed the park, but this turmoil will have a huge setback on the park,” said a senior official from Rosy Blue.
 
 Industrialists expect that the government will have to convert the proposed Jewellery Park into a general industrial park to get occupancy. 
 
  “Skill labour is a huge problem in the region. A handful of workers form a monopoly in absence of adequate skilled workers and this is destroying the whole industry,” said Madhya Pradesh Sarafa Association president Hukumchand Soni.
 
 Rosy Blue’s Rau unit was polishing about 75,000 carat of diamond in a year but the production of polished diamond almost halved due to nonperformance by the workers, the company official said. 
 
 Rosy blue lawyer Patwardhan said, “The company management had entered into a long term settlement with the employees wherein a specific target was decided to be achieved by the employees. The labour union kept on assuring the management that employees will show improvement in their production but the employees were giving only 30 per cent of target production.”
 
