COIMBATORE: D Sumaiya, wife of  , who was arrested in connection with Hindu Munnani activist Sasikumar’s murder, on Thursday alleged that her husband has been framed. 

 Claiming that her husband was tortured and intimidated to accept the murder charges, Sumaiya said she would fight for his release. “My husband was threatened by the Crime Branch –CID, (special investigation wing), Coimbatore police and he was forced to give a wrong statement. Police personnel threatened him by saying that if he fails to accept the guilt, he would be killed in an encounter,” said Sumaiya.
 
 Sumaiya was allowed to meet Syed for half an hour at the office of the Crime Branch CID (SID) office located at the Police Recruitment School (PRS) campus on Wednesday. “He told me that police officers offered him Rs 5 lakh to accept that he committed the murder but refused the offer,” she told TOI, adding that her husband was ill-treated and beaten by the police from Monday night to Wednesday morning.
 
 Meanwhile, to condemn the arrest,   (SDPI) and   (PFI) organised a protest in front of the South Taluk office on Thursday. As many as 260 people, including 60 women, participated in the protest and raised slogans against the CB-CID (SID) police and DSP K Balamurugan for arresting Syed. The protest was led by SDPI national executive committee member AS Ismail.
 
 As many as six Muslim youths were arrested in 2006 by a police team led by assistant commissioner   in Coimbatore city, Ismail told reporters. “Police made up a story that the youths were trying to create unrest in the city by exploding bombs. However, the state government proved that they were framed in the case and the faulty police officers were exposed among the society,” he said.
 
 VM Abudhakir, state executive committee member of SDPI, said that Syed was questioned more than 12 times by the CB-CID –SID police. “Police suspect his friend Saddam Hussain’s role in Sasikumar’s murder. So, he was questioned repeatedly. He was picked up at gun point and remanded to judicial custody in connection with the murder case. We condemn the CB-CID and SID police tactics against the Muslim community. We will prove that Syed is innocent,” he added.
 
