KOLKATA: Following the   rollout, families that have weddings lined up are seeing red as they face a runaway budget.

 Facing an an increase in the cost of several items required in the elaborate Indian wedding, families are either revising their budget or looking to slash expenses to ensure they don't exceed the original budget by a big margin. Some   are even contemplating a personal loan to make good the funds deficit.
 
 “In Indian households, one usually plans a daughter's wedding for years. Once an upper expense limit is fixed, savings are accordingly planned and executed. Parents sacrifice personal comfort and short-term pleasures to ensure there's no compromise in their daughter's wedding ceremony . So, when something as revolutionary as GST happens just ahead of the wedding, it is extremely disruptive. Add to that the confusion over what it entails, and it is a cocktail for disaster,“ said Rita Chakraborty , whose daughter Saarani is scheduled to wed in March 2018.
 
 She is glad she insisted on shopping for saris and jewellery well in advance. “Had we done so closer to the wedding date, it would have cost us dear. With jewellery cost set to go up by 2%-3% and 5% tax imposed on sari, and leather shoes and bags attracting a GST rate of 18%, it would have meant a substantial additonal expense,“ said Rita.
 
 Saarani plans to sit down with her mother once there is clarity on the impact of GST to revise the budget. They had originally estimated the catering bill to be Rs 3 lakh on the wedding day but are sure it will fall short now. “There are so many little components of a wedding and all of them add up to this one, huge expense,“ she said.
 
 The family may resort to make some cuts in paraphernalia to prevent the budget from going haywire. “Weddings are a costly affair and with GST, there might be an even greater financial burden than we had expected. We may have to do the tightrope walk,“ said Rita.
 
 Rituparna Chatterjee, whose marriage is fixed for July19 in Durgapur, is relieved she has been able to steer clear a lot of expenses due to her wedding date.Since the wedding is in July , most of the arrangements including the booking of the venue, the caterer and purchase of clothes and jewellery are already over. “I feel sorry for those who have planned their wedding but not made the key purchases or done the bookings yet,“ she remarked.
 
 Even before the GST entered into the equation, Rituparna and her fiancé had decided to do away with the practice of presenting trousseau. “We wanted to keep the wedding as minimal as we could, right from the start.In retrospect, we feel we both made a wise decision. But considering how much makeup artists, photographers and florists will now cost, I too intend to contribute to the wedding to the best of my capacity,“ she said.
 
