GURUGRAM: The good news is, Haryana has crossed the psychological barrier of 900 girls to every 1,000 boys in child  . The bad news is, Gurgaon is among the bottom districts. 

 Out of 21 districts, Gurgaon is at 18, with a child sex ratio of 883, according to the annual report of the civil registration department, released earlier in February. 
 
 To rectify the situation, the district advisory committee has taken several decisions governing use of   machines under the PNDT Act to further curb their use in illegal sex determination tests.
 
 The panel has made it mandatory for anyone bringing an ultrasound machine here to get a no objection certificate (NOC) from district authorities and medical officers of Haryana or any other state, where the machine was being operated earlier. The NOC will show that the machine was being run at a registered centre and did not have a criminal case filed against its use.
 
 In a meeting of the district advisory committee at the office of the Gurgaon civil surgeon on Friday, the decision was taken while considering the applications of a private hospital and a diagnostic centre which were seeking permission for the same.
 
 “In another decision, four ultrasound machines that were sealed on December 5 — as their registration was not renewed after expiration — were also allowed to function after completion of due formalities,” said Dr Pushpa Bishnoi, chief medical officer, Gurgaon.
 
 The panel also approved four new ultrasound centres in the district, including Mahajan Imaging Centre, Narayana Mother and Child Care Centre, Vijay Diagnostic Centre and Centre Point Pet Hospital Private Limited. They also renewed registrations of two others —   International India Private Limited and   and Eye Institute.
 
 Meanwhile, Under the PNDT Act, the district advisory committee has decided to give Rs 1 lakh to an informer from Khair in Uttar Pradesh for his help in the arrest of an ultrasound machine operator who was conducting foetus sex determination tests in December last year. However, as the money cannot be withdrawn at one go due to demonetisation, it was decided the reward will be paid in instalments.
 
 
