VISAKHAPATNAM: Works on setting up eco-friendly   plants in 10 major cities of AP has picked up pace. These plants will cover 63 urban local bodies and process about 4,400 metric tonnes of solid waste a day.

 Land has already been earmarked for the plants in Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Kadapa, Anantapur and Nellore municipal corporations, while the other plants are awaiting allocation. Set to be commissioned by 2018, the proposed capacity of all these plants is 63MW (megawatt). Research on waste-to-energy plants in AP was taken up by this correspondent as part of WWF-India Fellowship.
 
 The decomposing waste in the landfills releases noxious methane fumes into the air, which is said to have more than 20 times the potency of carbon dioxide and is ranked as a dangerous contributor to climate change. Waste-to-energy plants help avoid the production of methane while producing almost ten times more electricity from each tonne of waste compared to landfills. 
 
 These plants will also be an answer to the plastic waste engulfing these cities. Unorganised waste management practices could pose an array of threats – right from the open burning releasing toxic gases and the pollutants seeping into the groundwater and causing subsequent health problems. These plants will help in reducing the municipal waste landfilling and increasing waste recycling levels. These will also help facilitate reuse of certain waste fraction and reduces the dependence on conventional source of energy to some extent.
 
 Chief operating officer of Swaccha Andhra Corporation, P Prabhakar, in an exclusive interview to this correspondent, explained the progress and environmental benefits of these projects. “Works for the plants were already initiated in Guntur and Visakhapatnam. 
 
 We have been scouting for an alternative land in Tirupati as there are some reservations with the earlier allocated land pocket in the outskirts of Tirupati. Besides being eco-friendly, these plants are economically viable due to good tariff for the produced power, high calorific value of   and   of garbage from the urban local bodies,” said Prabhakar.
 
 The urban local bodies will shoulder the responsibility of delivering the waste on a daily basis to these plants. The Discoms of the State will undertake construction of power evacuation facility and procure power from the plants for 25 years.
 
 GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said that they had already allocated land to the waste to energy plant and the private party is in the process of   for the plant.
 
