The   money transfer branch at   in Gurgaon is one of the less busy branches in the city, given that it is authorized only for limited transactions. That is why it has a skeletal staff. Apart from the branch head Raju Yadav, the small shop-like branch in Badshahpur market has only two other employees –   and Poonam and no security guard. 

 On Tuesday afternoon, as the branch head stepped out for lunch, these two women were the only ones in the office, when two armed men entered the premises and attempted to rob the place. What followed was something the robbers had not anticipated. Rather than getting intimidated by the gun-wielding robbers, the two women took them on, overpowered them, and even chased them when they tried to make a run for it. 
 
 As the   footage of the foiled robbery was picked up by social media and news outlets, the two Gurgaon women became overnight celebrities. The two spoke to us about what went through their heads during the attempted robbery and why it was important for them to stand up to armed robbers. "When the two men entered, we thought they were customers. They carried bags like many customers do," says Vimla Devi, adding, "It was only when one of them closed the main door and we saw the guns that we realized that they were robbers. It was the first time someone had pointed a gun at me, and for a second, I did not know how to react. But all I knew was that I couldn't let them take any of the cash." There was about Rs two lakh in cash at the branch at that time. 
 
 The robbers first pointed the guns at the two women ordering them to hand over all the cash, and when the intimidation did not yield any result, one of them hit Poonam with the hilt of his pistol. It was at that point that the two women attacked the robbers and tried to snatch their guns. 
 
 Poonam recounts, "It was an instinctive reaction. Kuch socha nahi, bas kar diya. Humein laga ki shor machaayein, aur kuch protest karne se ho sakta hai woh darr jayein. Ya phir koi madad ko toh aata hi." The robbers were taken aback and after a few seconds of struggle, lost their guns to the women, following which they made a run for it. Vimla says, "When they tried to run, we even chased them. Aise jaane kaise dete? Chhodna toh tha hi nahin unhe. People nearby heard our voices and someone nabbed one of the robbers, and we chased the other one down." The two men – jobless youths from Bhiwani – are in police custody and have been charged with sections of IPC pertaining to dacoity and possession of illegal firearms.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Both Poonam and Vimla are residents of Badshahpur and have been working at the branch for a few years. Even as they are being hailed as heroes now and being called 'fearless', the duo say they were terrified during the entire episode, but that fear did not act as a deterrent. Vimla elaborates, "Of course, there was some fear. When someone waves a gun in your face, you fear death. But maine socha ki kya guarantee hai ki waise bhi yeh naa goli maarein. Toh jab marna hi hai toh kuch achha kar ke maro." Vimla is 45, Poonam, 28. The two robbers were much younger and visibly fitter. Didn’t that scare the two women? "Yeh sab sochte toh kuch kar hi nahin paate. Itna time bhi nahin tha sochne ka," says Poonam.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Even the police took note of the women's bravery. "The bravery and presence of mind shown by the two women is commendable and the department will reward them for preventing a crime," Gurgaon police commissioner   was quoted as saying. But for the two women, no reward is bigger than the satisfaction of having prevented their branch from getting robbed – it trumps all the limelight and accolades. "Of course it feels good to be praised for something that we did. Achha lagta hai ki sab tareef kar rahe hain, par yeh sab nahin hota toh bhi theek hi tha. We didn't let the branch get robbed. Wohi kaafi hai," they sum up.
 
 
