BHOPAL: The state government has chalked out an ambitious plan to develop ‘nutrition smart’ villages with an aim to control malnutrition. The woman and child development department (WCD) minister, Archana Chitnis, has urged the department of agriculture to help the WCD to take measures to curb malnutrition in the state.

 “The villages can be freed of malnutrition by fulfilling the needs of villagers. We have therefore decided to develop nutrition smart villages to control malnutrition in Madhya Pradesh,” Chitnis said, while addressing a meeting and a presentation on the proposed project.
 
 “The plan is to develop villages as ‘nutrition smart’ in coordination with the  ,” Chitnis told the officers present at the meeting.
 
 The minister sought the help of agriculture department saying, “Agriculture and other departments along with the WCD will have to make coordinated efforts to control malnutrition in state.”
 
 “The focus would be to integrate agriculture, which comprises animal husbandry and fisheries in addition to traditional farming with WCD for cohesive results,” the minister said.
 
 Chitnis said an integrated nutrients management system would be implemented through optimisation of all possible sources of organic, inorganic and biological components which would further help in developing the plan.
 
 “We would seek expertise from scientists in the district headquarters to operationalise the plan and to make it a big success,” Chitnis asserted.
 
 During the meeting, agriculture scientists from various districts gave a presentation of the work plan. Among those present at the meeting included principal secretary of the WCD JN Kansotia, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) project director Nidhi Nivedita, director of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (zone -7) Atari,   and officials of the horticulture and animal husbandry departments.
 
 Under the scheme, the state government would identify clusters to develop such villages. The scheme will function in the chosen villages with mandatory components to ensure an optimum level of development that will make them ‘nutrition smart’.
 
 Nobel laureate   recently said the government needs to take serious steps to check malnutrition in the state.
 
 According to the latest Census figures, the population of children under five years of age in MP is 91,42,292. According to   (NFHS) 42.8% of the children (39,12,900) are underweight, 42% children (38,39,762) have stunted growth and 9.2% children (8,41,090) are severely malnourished.
 
 
