SRINAGAR: The incessant rains for past three days and snowfall on Thursday morning in Kashmir has brought the life to standstill as water logging and electricity shutdown was reported from most of the areas across Valley.
 
  The government has announced three-day holiday for all the educational institutions including colleges, while as Kashmir University and Islamic University of Science and Technology has rescheduled the exams. The cross LoC trade from Uri to Muzaffarabad was also suspended due to bad weather and rise in the water level of river Jehlum in Uri.
  
  The snowfall in April may be a treat for tourists, but has saddened the fruit growers, as it damages the blossoms of almond, cherry, pear and some varieties of apple, affecting the final produce heavily.
  
  Even though the weatherman has predicted significant improvement in the temperature from Friday afternoon, increase in the water level in river Jehlum and other rivulets has triggered panic among locals.
  
  “There will be gradual improvement in weather today and significant improvement from tomorrow. Snowfall in April is not normal, but it has happened in past as well, so we should not panic,” Director MeT, Sonum Lotus told ET.
  
  Heavy rainfall in any month of the year, triggers panic in the Valley triggers, due to horrible memories of September 2014 floods, when no less than two storeys of every house in affected areas was under water, at least for a month.
  
  “I already started shifting household items to third storey of my house. I cannot live an experience of flood again,” said Ghulam Muhammad, 65, of Rajbagh whose house was under water for two month in 2014.
  
  The Irrigation and Flood control department of the government has sounded alert after the water level crossed danger mark in may tributaries. The water level is continuously rising in Vishav Nala in south Kashmir and crossed the danger mark in Nala Madumati, Nala Erin, and Nala Ferozpur in north Kashmir. The people living on the banks of these tributaries have been asked to move to safer places.
  
  In Baramullah district of north Kashmir, many houses were damaged due to flash floods in Sheeri, Gantmula and Pattan area. The road to another north Kashmir district of Bandipora was also blocked as it was inundated with water at different spots.
  
  “There will not be any major flood, but spillover in some the tributaries,” said Lotus.
  
  The city center Lal Chowk and Jehangir Chowk was immersed in water, where authorities rushed in fire brigades and water motors to pump out the water into river Jehlum. However, rest of the city including the outskirts of Bemina, Nowgam and downtown Srinagar continues to grapple with big potholes filled with water, blocked drainage making it difficult to move for the vehicles and pedestrians as well.
  
  Directorate of Health Services, has also issued a morning circular asking all the chief medical officers, medical superintendents and block medical officers ‘to remain prepared to deal with any healthcare related problems arising out of ‘flood like situation.’ They have been asked to set up control rooms are district and block level in view of continuous rainfall.
