Will it happen or won’t it? Has the date changed? Where has the venue shifted? These were some of the issues fans of DJ   battled last week, when he was all set to embark on a four-city tour in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi. Just before his tour was to begin, there were last-minute cancellations and changes in schedule, which were a nightmare for not just the organisers but also for all those who had booked tickets for the concerts.
The chaos and ambiguity surrounding Guetta’s tour isn’t the first time a big-ticket event in India has suffered. In fact, just this week, GOAT 2017, a boutique music and arts festival scheduled to take place in Goa next weekend had to realign its events. They also had to cut down on a few live acts and change their format on account of the upcoming elections in the state. Despite India being a hub for cultural events, why do organisers face hiccups when it comes to hosting large-scale programmes?
 
 
 
 Be it a college festival or a multi-day international music festival, there’s a set of close to 15 major permissions and NOCs one requires in order to have an open-air concert. “Right from the basic sound permission to electrical, traffic and parking permits, there’s a long list. Most of these are necessary, given the nature of the events and safety. But the real issue here is the basis on which these permissions are granted. Many a times, the final decision is based on the whim of the individual in-charge at that point of time,” says Pratik Agarwal, organiser of The Lost Party, a multi-genre festival.
 As compared to playing at a commercial venue, the risk of cancellation runs higher at on-ground events. Mikhail Mehra, who organises the   in India, adds, “When you do an outdoor show, there are more variables in play, therefore, there is always a higher chance of cancellation. Some of these permissions come on the day of the show and it can be very stressful.”
 
 
 
 While women’s safety, overall security and managing the crowd top the list of problems organisers face, there are other issues too. From visas to permits and even rough weather conditions have been party-poopers. Munbir Chawla, one of the partners of Magnetic Fields, a musical carnival, says, “As rewarding and exciting as running an event in India is, it is by no means the easiest business to be in. There are limitations and guidelines — culturally, technically and professionally. We’ve faced issued with visas, production, licensing and transport in the past. For instance, our Pakistani music show in 2015 was plagued with visa issues (it took over two months to secure one). Add to this, our artistes had to visit the police station every single day, while in Alsisar, Rajasthan.” Mikhail agrees, “We faced similar issues with American artistes. When the electronic music trio Major Lazer came to India for their first tour in 2014, we were on a very short schedule because we had many live shows and were also shooting the video, Lean On. For some reason,   (one of the group members) couldn’t make it to the   (FRRO) in Mumbai to clear his passport, and we left for Bengaluru. When we wrapped up the final show in Bengaluru, I dropped him off at the airport. I had a feeling that they wouldn’t let him leave and that turned true. Ten minutes later, I received a text from him saying that he’s coming back because he wasn’t allowed to leave.”
 While losing face in front of global artistes is one thing, financial losses occurred by organisers is a major dampener, too. When a big-ticket event gets cancelled or rescheduled, sometimes, audiences have the option of asking for a refund or selling off their tickets at a lesser price. But organisers have to bear the financial brunt. Reducing the cost of the event, rescheduling it, changing the venue at the last minute… all of these amount to major losses.
 
 
 
 Most organisers agree that averting such scenarios is not such an uphill task, after all. Andre Timmins, director and co-founder of the company which was the event producer for India’s first Global Citizen Festival held in Mumbai, shares, “Government venues like the   or Indira Gandhi Stadium in Delhi are pre-licensed and it’s easier to hold events here. Such permanent venues make life easier for organisers. Live entertainment has to be live — you can’t change dates! Event and Entertainment Management Association (EEMA) — the only autonomous and non-profit body in India — brings together the world’s leading event management companies, institutions and professionals on a common platform. With the help of this, one can go online and get all permissions in 72 hours straight. Currently, this is only applicable in Delhi and we’re planning to bring it down
 to Mumbai.”
 Adds Munbir, “For authorities, to understand the importance of contemporary music and arts would be a great start. Economically, and culturally it plays a vital role in the growth of a country. The rest, be it the government’s support or ease on restrictions and permissions, can follow.”
 
