Nagpur:   paper is very lengthy and time management plays an essential role. The question paper will be given to you ten minutes prior. This is the ‘reading time’ and you must be completely focused during that moment. It will help you understand the content better.

 There are four sections in the paper. ‘Section A’ has two seen and two unseen passages. You must wrap it up within an hour. Section B and C comprise two poems and one rapid reader and you should finish it in 30 minutes. In comprehensions, make sure that your answers are co-related with the passages.
 
 In section D, you have five creative writing questions which should be given 15 minutes each. If you stick to this time frame then you will finish your exam on time, plus you will have 15 minutes in the end to go through what you have written and make corrections. 
 
 Be attentive while solving the personal response question. You should answer creatively and don’t let your concentration waver. Always remember that quality matter over quantity. The word limit will be specified and so you should try to stick to it and make the most of it. If you keep exaggerating, then you will lose track of the topic. You won’t be able to convey your message efficiently.
 
 Use phrases and idioms in your speeches as it makes a good impression on the examiner. Highlight the important sentences in your paper to grab the valuers attention. Solve the paper in serial order and don’t miss out any question. Also remember to put down the ‘question no’ infront of your answers.
 
 Be thorough with the different formats of formal/informal letter, advertisement, leaflet, report, fact file etc. Your article should be neat and tidy.
 
 Read your textbook and the question behind each chapter as the grammar part is related to it.
 
 You cannot memorize this subject nor can you prepare for it overnight. It is the culmination of all the reading that you have done throughout the year.
 
 You should be calm and composed during the three hours to deliver quality product.
 
 (The writer, Nicola McLeod is an english teacher at St Joseph’s Convent)
 
 
