NOIDA: A day after chief minister   allocated portfolios to his cabinet ministers, the Noida RWA federation wrote to the CM on Thursday to seek representation for Noida in the council of ministers. The RWA federation has also sought a meeting with the CM to apprise him of all the civic and residential issues faced by Noida residents.

 N P Singh, president of Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations ( ), said the residents of Noida have been supporting BJP in all elections ever since Noida was delimited as a separate constituency in 2012. “The city has all the characteristics of a metropolitan and is a ‘show window’ to the state. It not only contributes the lion’s share of tax revenue to UP, but also accounts for minimum line losses in power in the whole of India and as such, has been categorised as a separate profit centre,” Singh said.
 
 Singh called for representation in the current council of ministers, saying that neither the district nor the city is represented in the cabinet. “We hope it will get representation as and when any expansion takes place in the future,” Singh said in the letter.
 
 In the letter, Singh defined FONRWA as a representative body of all the sectors’ residents welfare associations (RWAs) of the city and informed the CM that it has been registered under the Societies Registration Act in 2002. “It was set up with a view to pursuing the common issues relating to the city’s development, and the welfare and security of the residents,” the letter reads.
 
 Singh said, “Provision of civic amenities, municipal services and development work in Noida has been entrusted to New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (Noida), which is a multi-functional authority and has no public representation.”
 
 “Our office-bearers are keen to meet the CM and apprise him of the critical issues faced by residents of Noida,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general, FONRWA. A copy of the letter has also been sent to the deputy chief ministers — Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma — and Union minister of tourism and culture Dr Mahesh Sharma.
 
 
