 Panaji: Bengaluru FC can breathe easy and maybe even the Indian Super League.
  The former   champions had joined the expanded   only after an assurance that they will be able to compete in Asian competitions, should they emerge champions in the new league. Since inception in 2014, the ISL did not enjoy official recognition and was, in the words of the All India Football Federation ( ), only a ‘tournament’.
  That’s all changing now. The competitions committee of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) which met at its headquarters in Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday gave special dispensation for the ISL as a “bridging solution” and allowed both leagues – ISL and I-League -- to run simultaneously.
  Better still for the ISL, and Bengaluru FC, winners of the 10-team ISL will be allowed to take part in the  , Asian football’s second-tier club competition.
  “AIFF’s recommendation to the AFC was that the ISL will replace the Federation Cup, whose winner is currently allocated an AFC Cup preliminary stage place.
  “Therefore, the committee approved that the I-League champions will play in the AFC Champions League play-off round and the ISL champions will play in the AFC Cup preliminary stage – as long as all clubs adhere to the AFC rules and regulations, particularly club licensing, from 2018,” the AFC said in a statement on Tuesday.
  Till last season, the I-League champions qualified for the AFC Champions League play-off, while the AFC Cup spot was reserved for Federation Cup winners.
  “The situation will be reviewed on a yearly basis with conditions which, in addition to adherence to club licensing regulations, include promotion, production, a player allocation system and the following of the roadmap agreed between the AFC and Indian football stakeholders at a meeting in Kuala Lumpur on June 7, 2017,” said the AFC.
  The ISL franchises will now have to get cracking and meet the stringent club licensing criteria. Crucially, all of them will get a one-time exemption with AFC making it clear that they have to adhere to the criteria from next season.
  The Indian Club Licensing System attempts to safeguard the credibility and integrity of continental and national club competitions. It also allows the development of benchmarking of clubs in sporting, infrastructure, personnel, administrative, legal and financial related criteria throughout the country.
