RANCHI: Come February 16 and Essar Group will walk into the state's maiden global investment summit in Ranchi amid uncertainties around its proposed   in Latehar district. 

 Sashi Ruia, the group chairman will attend the introductory session of the two-day summit as the conglomerate remains optimistic of tiding over the shortage of coal for its 1800 MW plant in the state. 
 
 Envisaged in 2009, the group got the Centre's nod in 2013 for setting up an 1800 MW thermal power plant in Chandwa in Latehar. Two coal blocks in Latehar - Ashok and Chakla - were allotted for the plant which was to operationalise two units for generating 1200 MW in the first phase. 
 
 The construction of the first phase of the plant commenced in 500 acres of land. However, the  's de-allocation of coal blocks in 2014 meant that the group lost possession of its two captive coal blocks for the project for which the group has already invested Rs 4,500 crore. 
 
 "The main problem that we are facing is that of coal availability. Though Tokisud North coal block has been allocated for our Singrauli project there is no coal block or coal linkage measures for the Chandwa yet," an Essar official said on condition of anonymity. "This is no fault of our own. The (Union) government has to take responsibility for it," he said. 
 
 The group has currently put the construction of its plant on hold. "We will operationalise two units, each of 600 MW, within 18 months of getting the coal linkage or block, whichever is allotted," another company official said. 
 
 Besides coal linkage the conglomerate is yet to acquire over 400 acres of land in Chandwa for the project, of which over 117 acres are fertile land. "The clearances for the remaining land are pending with the state government. But we hope to get it without any hindrances," another official said. 
 
 Labh Kumar, general manager (corporate affairs), sounded optimistic. "We hope to restart the operations in Chandwa with  ," Kumar said.
 
 Sources in the company, however, said it was unclear whether the company is planning new projects in Jharkhand. Essar has forayed into the IT sector and has an operational BPO in Jamshedpur. 
 
