KOLHAPUR: Frantic search operations are under way at Dhangaon village, situated along the banks of the   in Sangli district, for a 33-year-old cane cutter who has been missing since Monday. He is feared to have been attacked by a  .

 Sanjay Patole, 33, watched by his two children was swimming in the river on Monday when he suddenly disappeared. Forest officials feel that a crocodile from the 'doh' (deep water area of the riverbed) may have attacked Patole. Similar incidents have several times in the region from Ankhalkhop to Haripur part of the river. 
 
 On Tuesday, as foresters and local villagers launched a search operation to find Patole, his 26-year-old wife, Kavita, was waiting listlessly on the river bank. 
 
 D D Shete, forest officer of the region, said, “We have deployed two boats to search for Patole. We believe that crocodile may have attacked him. However, what happened will be clear only after the body is found and medical investigation is done.”
 
 Forest officers, going by their past experience, hoped that the body would be found after 25 hours of the incident. However, three search operations till Tuesday evening had been futile. 
 
 Officers said most of the incidents of crocodile attacks recorded with Bhilawadi police station shows have taken place between January to May every year, which is the mating and breeding period of the reptiles. The animals do not tolerate any interference or encroachment upon their territory or disturbance during their mating. Records with the police department show six people have lost lives in crocodile attacks in the past last ten years in that belt of Krishna river. Twelve-year-old Rameshwar Rathod died in an attack last year and was found a few kilometres away from Nagthane, the site where attack took place. 
 
 The death prompted the forest department to identify the number of crocodiles in the river and their breeding sites. They identified 19 large crocodiles and 36 small ones in the 23km stretch of the river from Haripur to Amnapur. The survey was questioned by the animal lovers and locals. The locals claimed that there are over 150 to 200 big crocodiles and have more than 19 breeding sites.
 
 Locals and experts claim that crocodiles used to live in co-existence with humans since many years. However, over the past one decade, enormous   in the region has caused destruction of the natural habitat of the crocodiles.
 
 Sagar Gavate, assistant conservator of forest, said the department has given a report to the revenue department to stop sand mining along the zones reported as breeding sites of the reptile. “However, we found sand mining going on just a couple of kilometres away from the site where the search operation for Patole was going on,” he said. 
 
 Bhilawadi, the major village along the banks of Krishna river, and a few nearby villages have passed a resolution last year to ban sand mining. Bhilwadi sarpanch Surendra Walvekar said, “Sand mining has led to destruction of the bushes on the banks of the river. The bushes are used by the crocodiles to lay eggs. Sand mining takes place during the same period crucial for reproduction of the crocodiles. We lived our childhood enjoying swimming in Krishna river without any fear. Now, everybody fears even to walk along the river bank.”
 
 The village panchayats of Ankhalkhop, Dhangaon, Sukhwadi, Bhramnal and Chopadewadi villages have also banned sand mining despite knowing that they will lose their share of revenue from the business. Every year, the district administration mops up around Rs 100 crore from sand mining by allocating over 120 patches of river bed to the private contractors.
 
 Amol Jadhav, animal rescuer associated with an organisation from Sangli, said they have started documentation of the man-animal conflict taking place in the region and are going to approach   and initiate a legal battle. 
 
 An official of the revenue circle office of Palus tehsil said sand mining from Dhangaon to Bhilawadi is totally shut as permission of village panchayat is required for allocating patches for sand mining. “The village panchayat of Amnapur has approved sand mining. The villages located upstream of Amnapur such as Nagrale, Dudhondi, Dhayari also have sand mining with the approval of the panchayat. The rules of initiating sand mining do not have any provision scrutinising the presence of crocodile habitat in the area,” he said. 
 
 Sangli district collector Shekhar Gaikwadi said, “Policy-level decisions have to be taken to declare the river stretch as protective zone. Sand mining can be stopped for such areas. We have suggested some measures such as developing  , installing signalling or alarm system on the banks of the river and placing the nets for safety of women and children. The sand mining is essential and cannot be banned completely.”
 
 Gaikwad said that funds can be sanctioned for placing safety nets and developing breeding sites.
 
