HYDERABAD: By the time the Police Action in 1948 ended the 37-year-old rule of the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan,   had established itself as one of the leading institutions of higher learning in the world.

 The university's reputation was so high that a number of leaders had cited its presence as one of the main reasons in the proposal to make Secunderabad the subsidiary capital of India.
 
 Soon after the Police Action, the proposal gained wide support. Several leaders put forth the argument in favour of Secunderabad, extolling the geographical, academic, social and commercial `virtues' of the `twin' of Hyderabad. Secunderabad soon emerged as the unanimous choice for the second capital of India down the Vindhyas.
 
 However, the proposal was later dropped, only to be raised again at frequent intervals. “The presence of Osmania University was the solid reason mentioned by the leaders in their arguments,“ said researcher Dr  , who edits the Urdu weekly, Gawah. In fact, Centre had also planned to make Secunderabad the subsidiary capi tal. “Political and administrative compulsions had changed the minds of the rulers and thus, Secunderabad lost the opportunity. The Centre felt Delhi was faced with the grip of “governmental congestion“ and it needed to be freed through creation of two subsidiary capitals, one at Nasik and the other at Secunderabad,“ Dr   said.
 
 A study of the news archives reveals that the Nizam government spent just `36 lakh to build the imposing structure of the  . The building depicts a blend of Hindu and Muslim architecture with a touch of Buddhist, Jain, Chalukyan, Bahamani and Qutub Shahi styles harmonised into one.The grand building stands to this day as the perfect symbol of unity in diversity for lakhs of students, who graduate every year from the university.
 
 According to Nizam Museum documents, the “first constructive work of the university was the establishment of a bureau for the translation and compilation of wide variety of books into Urdu.“ By 1948, about 500 books on the latest and most advanced subjects in science and technology subjects had been translated.
 
 “Equal importance was given to physical as well as spiritual education to keep the body and mind in perfect harmony. The Nizam in 1920s issued a firman allotting 2,200 acres for the new buildings of the university at Tarnaka. It introduced medicine, sciences, veterinary and agricultural courses prior to Independence,“ Dr Parvez said.
 
