KOCHI: As   gears up to begin commercial operations within next few months, pressure mounts up on Metro authorities to provide sufficient parking along the Metro corridor. 

 Merchants and traders have raised concern about traffic congestion on the city roads.
 
 According to them, not all commuters would be willing to use feeder services to reach Metro stations from their homes and workplaces or reach their destinations from Metro stations.
 
 They point out the need of parking spaces by the time Metro becomes operational. If adequate facilities are not provided, people who come by private vehicles to Metro stations would end up parking vehicles on the sides of the roads, and would obstruct smooth movement of traffic.
 
 The Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) chairman,  , said that parking facilities on arterial roads like MG Road was a major concern for trading community. 
 
 "We have no clue on where parking would be provided for Metro commuters. No serious discussions have taken place in this regard," he said.
 
 When KMRL came out with a plan to beautify MG Road, they considered the option of restricting the movement of vehicles through the road. 
 
 In case the project gets implemented, the   (KMRL) will have to open the responsibility of providing parking for shoppers. 
 
 "If Metro wants to maximise ridership they will have to provide facility for commuters to park their vehicles safely and take the train. For the survival of business it is important to provide parking for shoppers," said P M Harris, corporation works committee chairperson.
 
 However, he said the corporation has a plan to set up a parking lot at Kacheripady on a private-public partnership basis. It would be possible to park about 350 cars in this parking space.
 
 The local body said that they did not have any other plans for providing parking in the city.
 
 The Kerala Merchant Union (KMU) president, V A Muhammed Asharf, also said there "was no information regarding parking policy in the city".
 
 During the tenure of former mayor Tony Chammany, the local body had announced that they would come out with a parking policy for the city. But when KMRL announced their plans to integrate public transport in the city under the Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority, the local body backed out from drafting a policy.
 
  "Though it will not be possible to provide parking at all stations, we will try to set up the facility at major stations. We are considering the option of providing land, and invite tenders for setting up parking lots," said KMRL spokesperson. 
 
