KANNUR: With the agitation against the   (STP) inside the Indian   (INA) in Ezhimala in the district reaching 70th day on Monday, the   have decided to strengthen the campaign.

 What infuriated them was the report of the expert committee set up by the government to study the STP issue, which did not approve the demand that the STP should be closed.
 
 “Though the report has made some suggestions to improve the plant, the core issue has not been addressed and the recommendations are against the Supreme Court order that the plants without the clearance from the Pollution Control Board should be closed down,” said Sunil Ramanthali, joint convener of the Jana Arogya Samrakshana Samithi.
 
 The   had sent notice to the Academy asking it to submit a show cause why an order shall not be passed to stop the operation of the STP. But such things were ignored in the report that favoured the opening of the plant after repairing and this is against the order of the apex court, alleged the action committee.
 
 In the backdrop of this, the action committee is planning to file a contempt of court case against the State government and also the State Pollution Control Board (PCB), they said.
 
 “The green tribunal order is expected on May 12, and we will take a final decision in this connection after the order is issued,” said Sunil.
 
 Meanwhile, the action committee would take out a protest march to Payyannur police station alleging that the police are charging fake cases against them to sabotage the agitation. They said the police have already registered case against at least five action committee members and according to the information they got the plan is to book more agitators.
 
 They also said the water level in the wells have started increasing, allegedly due to the leakage from the plant and the foul smell of the water due to contamination has also increased.
 
 Though the INA authorities agreed that they have not got the PCB clearance due to some technical reasons, and the process to get clearance is on, their argument is that the water contamination is not due to the seepage from their plant.
 
