KORAPUT: A team of National Investigation Agency ( ) led by its inspector general Mukesh Singh reached the district headquarters of Rayagada on Sunday to investigate into the derailment of Jagdalpur-Bhubaneswar Hirakhand Express. 

 As many as 41 persons were killed in the accident which had occurred on the night of January 21 at Kuneru station, 25 km from Rayagada under Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh. 
 
 Though a five-member team of the NIA had visited the mishap site on January 23 and inspected the broken tracks and the mangled coaches as the railways had suspected sabotage, on Friday the Union home ministry issued formal orders for a probe by the NIA into the derailment.
 
 Officials said on January 23, suspecting the possibility of sabotage, railway minister Suresh Prabhu had written to home minister Rajnath Singh seeking a detailed probe by the NIA. 
 
 "A 10-member team of the NIA accompanied by government railway police SP Simoshi Bajpai of Andhra Pradesh will probe the incident. Apart from visiting the mishap spot, the team may also interrogate officials concerned," said a senior railway official at Rayagada.
 
 Earlier, during their investigation on January 23, the NIA had interrogated eight railway staffers, including the station manager of Kuneru station. 
 
 As the mishap site falls in a Maoist-affected zone and a goods train had passed on the same track just two hours before the accident, the railways suspected foul play.
 
 Requesting anonymity, a senior railway official of Rayagada said though initial probe reveals that there was rail fracture which caused the derailment, the reason behind the fracture is yet to be known.
 
 The NIA is already investigating the role of Pakistan's spy agency   ( ) behind the November 20, 2016, derailment of   in which at least 150 people were killed.
 
 Earlier Odisha DGP K B Singh had dismissed the possibility of Maoist involvement in the mishap saying that there is no indication of the Red hand behind the derailment.
 
 
