CHANDIGARH: The state government has eased the norms for hunting permits. Short-term permits for shooting crop-damaging wild boar and rojh/nilgai (blue bull) during the season will no longer require a panchayat resolution, the Punjab government announced on Friday.

 The state government has also approved introduction of sterilization of bulls by the animal husbandry department to control the menace of stray cattle, in line with the practice being followed in some other states.
 
 Standing crops on many acres are often destroyed by animals in search for food. Invasion by blue bulls and wild   is most common. The Punjab government allows culling of these two species but other animals can neither be killed nor hurt.
 
 At a meeting of the Punjab State Wildlife Board, chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh, it was decided to simplify the procedure for sanctioning the 45-day permits for shooting the crop-damaging animals. It was decided to put the permit process online and on the WhatsApp digital platform to ensure ease of procedure for grant of the permits. These permits for limited hunting are confined to privately owned land and are meant only for crop-damaging animals.
 
 The meeting also decided on various initiatives to promote ecological preservation, including creation of a conservation reserve along 185km of the Beas, starting from 52 head   to Harike.
 
 It has also been decided to allow fishing with the board being empowered to decide on the seasons, as against the earlier practice of fishing being a part of the irrigation and drainage department’s domain.
 
 The meeting also discussed the low occupancy at the forest and canal guest houses in the state and decided to place the infrastructure under the control of the Wildlife Development Corporation. Allowing horse and camel safaris and setting up eco-trails were some of the measures discussed to boost eco-tourism.
 
 Ropar wetland would be declared a wildlife sanctuary/conservation reserve. In addition, the meeting also gave in-principle approval to the release of gharials (17 hatchlings of which are ready at  ) into Satluj-Beas.
 
 The meeting also discussed and approved a proposal to convert the Siswan village panchayat land into a community reserve by declaring 3,199 acres of the land as forest under the Land Preservation Act, 1990. As many as 39 cameras positioned across the strip of land for three days had revealed the site to be teeming with wildlife, including leopard, sambar, barking deer, jungle cat, wild boar, civet cat, and peafowl.
 
  sanctuary on cards
 
 The wildlife board has approved creation of   to promote eco-tourism, such as angling and river cruise, for revenue generation. A proposal to ban commercial netting was also discussed.
 
 New measures
 
 Temporary hunting permit to be issued online
 
 Animal husbandry dept to sterilize stray bulls
 
 Conservation reserve along 185km of Beas River
 
 Horse and camel safaris and setting up eco-trails
 
 17 gharials hatchlings from   zoo to be released into Satluj-Beas
 
 
