BHOPAL: Multinational soft drink giants have gone out of favour of Indian Railways, especially the West Central Railways (WCR) that has directed to ban these drinks from the stalls in the 300 station under its jurisdiction.

 In a recent directive, WCR has banned sale of colas including those manufactured by Pepsi and Coke from stations under its jurisdiction in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
 
 The decision has been taken after complaints about presence of harmful chemicals in soft drinks. Bhopal, Habibganj and Itarsi railway station are the major stations where these colas will be off counters.
 
 Spokesperson for West Central railway,   told TOI, “We have been regularly getting complaints about presence of harmful chemicals in cold drinks manufactured by these companies. We have sent a letter to those manufacturing these products for verification on the claims of complainants. Until they give us a report, all the stock has been removed from the stations and tender of these firms will not be renewed.”
 
 WCR is divided into three divisions including Bhopal, Jabalpur and Kota. WCR have also written to Kota division to call back all the stock of colas.
 
 Union minister of state for health Faggan Singh Kulaste in November 2016 had come up with a study details of which he presented in   stating that lead and other heavy metals such as cadmium and chromium have been found in samples of prominent cold drinks.
 
 WCR also issued a list of companies eligible to sell their products on railway stations. Surprisingly, names of all top   brands were missing from the list. Now, senior officials have started inspections to ensure that stocks of these products are completely removed from the stalls, said Yadav.
 
 Thumbs up for desi brands 
 
 Like in case of Rail Neer (packaged mineral water), Railways are promoting desi beverages. Vendors said, lack of awareness about some of these products and trust deficit among consumers are holding back the sales from taking off. Brands like “Xalta” from Jhajjar, Haryana have been allowed for sale at railway stations along with health drinks and like flavoured milk local brands.
 
 Tularam, a MT and Sons vendor at Bhopal railway station said, “Price of these alternatives is less compared to the colas, still people do not like it.”
 
 Echoing the sentiments, Kamlesh Kumar, another vendor at platform 2 of Bhopal railway station said, “Normally train stoppages are for 5 minutes and in that little time you can’t convince passengers to trust a new brand. There is no problem with the new brands and they too taste good.”
 
 
