PUNE: An elderly woman from the city fell for the charm of a  , who professed love for her, and   in the process.

 The conman, posing as an engineer from London befriended her through a social networking site, and duped her on the pretext of getting himself “released” from the customs in New Delhi. Falling prey to his charm, the 55-year-old widow from Somwar Peth initially transferred Rs 1 lakh in the account of her “groom from London”. “When he started demanding more money, the woman got suspicious and stopped sending the money,” said Satish Chavan, inspector of the  .
 
 The cheating occurred between April 2016 and October 2016 but the woman lodged the complaint with the Samarth Police Station on Monday.
 
 Chavan said the complainant is the resident of Somwar Peth and lived alone after her husband’s death. She came into contact with one Edward Napoleon through the social networking website in April last year. The man, who claimed to be an engineer, professed his love for the woman and promised to marry her. “After that the woman and Napoleon exchanged cell phone numbers and began talking and sending SMSs to each other,” Chavan said.
 
 Chavan said that Napoleon won the woman’s confidence by sending his photographs to her and also promised to settle down with her in London. In the month of October last year, the Napoleon surprised the woman by telling her that he had arrived in Delhi and will soon come to meet her in Pune. “On the next day, Napoleon called the woman and told her that the customs officials had detained him in Delhi as he was not carrying his health card with him,” Chavan said.
 
 He said that the suspect also told the woman that the customs officials were demanding Rs 1 lakh to release him. “He requested the woman to transfer the amount to his friend’s account number. Without thinking twice the woman transferred Rs 1 lakh,” Chavan said.
 
 He said that the next day the suspect again called the woman and demanded more money. “The worried woman told Napoleon that she would to come to Delhi to help him. However, all Napoleon wanted was money,” Chavan said.
 
 When the suspect found that the woman wanted to come to Delhi, he switched-off his phone and stopped any contacts with her. “The woman got suspicious and did not transfer the money,” Chavan said.
 
 Police have started an investigation.
 
