BHATINDA/ JALALABAD: Shiromani Akali Dal president   on Sunday started his election campaign from Jalalabad assembly constituency. SAD had on January 5, announced candidature of Sukhbir Badal from Jalalabad, along with that of chief minister   from Lambi assembly constituency.

 While the Congress is yet to field anyone from the Jalalabad, AAP chief   had announced MP   as the party's official candidate to take on Sukhbir. Mann has since been campaigning regularly in the segment.
 
 Launching his poll drive, Sukhbir directly attacked Mann. “It is for the people to judge whether they should trust a person who is in the habit of even visiting holy places under the influence of liquor and even attending Parliament under the influence of liquor or someone who is their own and believes in development.“
 
 He said people need to recog He said people need to recog nize who were with them and who were the outsiders just wanting to befool them with fal se promises. He said AAP had betrayed the farmers on the issue of SYL and river waters.
 
 The Congress froze government recruitments when in power and even stopped the free power to farmers, along with other welfare schemes, he said.In clear contrast, the SAD BJP government had provided all round facilities to each and every section of society and ensured record development, he claimed. He exhorted people to take control of his poll campaign.“We have provided holistic development and ensured that this border constituency did not lack for anything. I will be campaigning in the entire state and might be away for long period. It is for the people to take the campaigning in their hands,“ he said. Sukhbir addressed election meetings at various villages of Jalalabad. He promised interest free loans of up to Rs10 lakh to youths to start their own business if the SADBJP returned to power. “The loans would be provided to the youth after giving them skill training so that they could become successful entrepreneurs,“ he told the gathering.
 
