BENGALURU: As   face a ban in  , the latest study by   (ITF) says the existing and foreseeable policies to cut   from global transport activities will not be enough to achieve the international community's climate ambitions.

 The   says that continued strong growth in demand for mobility would mean that even in the optimistic scenarios the carbon footprint from transportation in 2050 will still be at 2015 levels of around 7.5 gigatonnes. It puts the onus of creating robust mass transit systems and bringing radical changes in policies to make transport sustainable, including shared mobility .
 
 Shared mobility can be done by carpooling, wherein a car owner shares his vehicle with others. Ride-sharing has stemmed out of carpool system. The report predicts highest growth in car share (ownership) in Asia -40% of 1.5 times the 2015 level, with China and India topping the region. Even in baseline scenario, the doubling of global transport demand will lead to 60% increase in carbon dioxide emissions between 2015 and 2050.
 
 “We need to accelerate and make radical policy choices to decarbonize transport. Tech nology will provide 70% of the possible reductions of carbon footprint to 2050. The rest will come from doing things differ ently and this is where there is still a lot of potential. We need to think more about shared mobility , new transport modes etc,“ says ITF secretary gen eral Jose Viegas.
 
 Raghu Ramanujam, found er of app-based carpooling service provider PoolCircle in Bengaluru, says, “Ban on shared mobility is not the an swer. Ride sharing in any form is good -reduces cost of trav el, traffic and pollution. Gov ernment must put in place strong regulations for passen ger security in shared cabs.
 
 And what is this ambiguity while Bengaluru traffic police promotes carpooling, trans port department calls ride sharing illegal.“
 
 Urban transportation ana lyst Pawan Mulukutla, however, says, “While ride-sharing is futuristic, there is a need to have a regulatory framework, ban is not the answer. Whenever there is an innovation in this sector, government should act fast to create the rules, that will be a win-win for citizens, government and the business model.“
 
 “It should focus on who are the people who are taking these trips. A recent study has revealed that ride-sharing is most preferred by bus users.And that is not the trend we should vouch for. Ride-sharing is a solution to reduce private vehicles on roads than an alternative to public transport. Uber and Ola should share data about people who are sharing rides and where is the shift happening to take forward the discourse with the government.“
 
