JAIPUR: As soon as whoopers with the jingle ‘Swachh Bharat Ka Irada’ entered Tilak Nagar, Rama Jain sprinted towards the   However, by the time, she reached the main gate, the vehicle that is supposed to   had vanished. This has become a routine for Jain who is distressed with the   (JMC).

 It’s been more than one month, garbage collection scheme is launched in many wards. But, residents are facing inconvenience as staff appointed by the private firm are not collecting garbage from the houses in the designated wards.
 
 “These hooper drivers are doing mere formality. They do not stop at houses to collect garbage. Also, timing of garbage collection is unscheduled,” said Kusum Tyagi another resident. 
 
 Out of 91 wards, the JMC has started door-to-door garbage collection in only 30 wards. It has put a question mark on the firm’s capabilities to collect garbage from the entire city as it has proved to be a failure in maintaining proper   even in one-fourth wards.
 
 Officials and public representatives are fearing they might face a massive protest from residents if garbage is not lifted on time even after paying money to the corporation. Vidhya Sharma, a resident of ward number 25, said, “The depots are flooded with garbage as the JMC has stopped lifting the trash after giving responsibility to the firm. Neither firm nor JMC is collecting garbage. JMC will charge this facility, however, it has failed to provide relief.” 
 
 In the last month review meeting, JMC’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ravi Jain too expressed disappointment over the Pune-based firm BVG India Pvt Limited’s progress. The officials were apprised that the firm is not collecting garbage from half of the houses in most of the wards.
 
 Moreover, the JMC has to deploy additional resources to lift garbage from depots in wards where work has been awarded to the firm. However, no action has been taken against the firm till date. Sources in the department claimed, “Chief minister in the recent review meeting directed to launch scheme in entire city by December. But, it looks impossible. As the firm has failed to deploy its machinery, it has proposed JMC to rent out its resources including machinery. The firm does not have sufficient resources and infrastructure of its own.”
 
 
