MUMBAI: While most of the compulsory papers for Mumbai University’s   exam are over, the assessment has still not begun. Usually, the assessment starts within three days of the first paper. The   in the assessment will also have a severe impact on the postgraduate admissions including MBA, law and other traditional courses, in the coming academic session. 

 The board of examinations (BoE) had decided to assess papers online this year, however, the bids to finalise a third party service provider will be opened only on April 22 in the third round of tendering. College principals claim that the assessment will not commence before first week of May, if the university remains firm on its decision. 
 
 The state government has asked all universities to announce the   by mid-June to ensure a smooth postgraduate admission process. “Even if the bids are opened on April 22, setting up scanning machines and training teachers will take up to seven to 10 days,” said a principal. Another principal pointed out that the university has not yet released the list of examiners; neither has it held the evaluators’ meeting to finalise the answer key for subjects such as accountancy.
 
 “Many students seek admission abroad for higher studies; everything will be at risk with delayed results. Since there are no elected members in the academic bodies to oppose it, many such arbitrary decisions are being taken by the university over the last one year,” said a principal.
 
 Many principals said that it will be easier for the younger lot of teachers to carry out on-screen assessment as they will be well-versed with the technology. University’s registrar, M A Khan, said that the training and setting up infrastructure can be done simultaneously after the bids open. “The BoE has taken a decision to carry out on-screen assessment and we are trying our level best to start the process soon,” said Khan. The earlier two tenders did not yield any result as university could not find a suitable firm to carry out the process for such large numbers of students.
 
 
