NAVI MUMBAI: The recently held   and   for traffic department staff has revealed that a majority of   are facing   issues pertaining to eye sight, blood pressure and lungs related ailments. 

 After undertaking various medical tests of 455 staff of the traffic department, including 30 traffic inspectors, it has been revealed that 60% of them are suffering from weak eyesight. While another 44% have hypertension and another 22% have respiratory ailments. The ones suffering from lungs related ailments are those who are constantly exposed to vehicular smoke during duty hours on the streets. While, the Body Mass Index (BMI) test has revealed that 20% of them are over weight.
 
 DCP (traffic) Nitin Pawar said, “The traffic constables are suffering from weak eyesight as it is age related health problem as most of them are above 40 years of age. The doctors have claimed that the eye related problems in traffic cops occur as they do not use dark goggles to protect eyes from sunlight. While, the hypertension amongst traffic cops is due to physical and mental stress related to work. Hence, it has been advised to regularly conduct stress management and yoga sessions for mental and physical fitness respectively.”
 
 He said, “The respiratory ailments amongst the traffic cops is mostly due to air pollution by automobiles exhaust smoke. The traffic cops deployed at toll plazas are more prone to respiratory ailments due to continuous exposure to vehicular smoke and pollution on the city streets. Even though masks are provided to the traffic cops, they do not use it continuously as they have to even communicate using walkie talkie. The doctors even said that yet another factor that contributes to lungs related disorder is smoking cigarettes and chewing tobbacco. Hence, it will be ensured that those addicted will quit these bad habits. The doctors have even given them tips of lungs related exercise which will help the cops stay healthy.”
 
 He further said, “For physical fitness of the police department staff, there is proposal of setting up modernised and well-equipped gymnasiums with library attached, one in each of the two zones. The facility will be available after six months from now. On Friday, as many as 241 traffic constables were detected with weak eye sight were distributed spectacles. The spectacles are good quality photocromatic lens, which costs around Rs 2,000 in the market.”
 
 The free health checkup was organised by the Rotary Club of Kharghar in coordination with Gagangiri Trust for over 455 traffic constables in Navi Mumbai.
 
  After undertaking various medical tests of 455 staff of the traffic department, including 30 traffic inspectors, it was revealed that around 60% of traffic cops suffer from weak eyesight, whereas another 44% have hypertension and nearly 22% traffic cops have various respiratory ailments. It was also observed that around 20% of the traffic constables were over weight
 
 
