Noida: A 20-year-old student died after he was knocked down by a fast-reversing car in   being driven by a software engineer returning from a party on Friday night. 

 Vivek Vinjamuri had just had dinner with four friends at McDonald’s and was waiting to hail an auto near the Domino’s Pizza outlet around 11.15 when a fast-reversing Honda City knocked him down. Stuck between the car and the pavement, the 20-year-old BTech student was dragged nearly 15 metres by the City and suffered a fatal head injury.
 
  
  Some eyewitnesses said the City first braked and then accelerated, running over Vinjamuri. At the wheel of the City was 30-year-old Apporva Agarwal, who works with an IT firm. When he realised what had happened, Agarwal tried to speed away but his escape was foiled when he ended up ramming his City into a Fortuner. He was soon surrounded by a mob that pelted stones at the car. Police said Agarwal switched on the central locking the stayed put in the car till cops arrived at the spot. 
 
  
  Later, police claimed Agarwal had told them he was drunk. “I was returning from a party. I could not control the vehicle which led to accident,” a police officer quoted Agarwal as saying. Agarwal lives in Sector 66 and works with   Technologies, police said. He has been arrested.
 
 Vinjamuri was rushed to Vinayak hospital by his friends. Doctors there referred him to Kailash hospital, but Vinjamuri had passed away by the time he was taken there. Police said he had head injuries and fractures.
 
 Vinjamuri was from Gurewada in Andhra Pradesh and lived in a paying guest accommodation in Noida’s Sector 126. He was a third-year student of nanotechnology at Amity University. His father Ravi Kumar, an Andhra Pradesh-based businessman, has come to  .
 
 “After dinner, we were waiting for an auto when the Honda City zoomed through the road. It suddenly reversed and hit Vivek who was standing on a side. He was dragged for around 15 metres and was critically wounded,” Sagar, a classmate of Vinjamuri, told TOI on Saturday.
 
 Police said Agarwal was returning from a pub. An FIR has been lodged against him under Section 304 (A) (death due to negligence) of the IPC.
 
 
