NEW DELHI:   today announced the acquisition of the Austrian machine and   B&R for an undisclosed amount. In a press release, ABB said the transaction is funded in cash and is expected to be complete this summer. 

 With this acquisition, the Swiss multi-national will expand its industrial automation offering by integrating B&R's innovative products, helping it challenge its German rival Siemens in the industrial automation sector. The deal increases ABB's sales in the segment to around $15 billion and consolidates its position as number two in the $130 billion global industrial automation sector.
 
 "This transaction marks a true milestone for ABB, as B&R will close the historic gap within ABB's automation offering. This is a perfect fit and will make us the only industrial automation provider offering customers the entire spectrum of technology and software solutions around measurement, control, actuation, robotics, digitalization and electrification," said ABB CEO  .
 
 B&R, founded in 1979 by   and Josef Rainer is headquartered in Eggelsberg, Austria, employs more than 3,000 people, including about 1,000 R&D and application engineers. It operates across 70 countries today and makes programmable controls for machines used by companies like Nestle, Procter & Gamble, and Roche - major players in the FMCG and the pharmaceuticals space.The privately held company also makes components for machines used by automotive makers BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen. Its products include industrial PCs and factory automation devices which are designed to increase productivity.
 
 The company released a statement on the acquisition where it said, "B&R Industrial Automation will remain a independent company, and we will retain our brand identity. B&R India management will continue to report to B&R Austria operation management. Managing Director P V Sivaram will continue to report to GM Global Sales, Mr Peter Gucher at B&R Austria. Our Support structure and sales focus on Machine and Factory Automation will be centred around our products like X20, ACOPOS and APROL."
 
 B&R has grown successfully with a revenue CAGR of 11 % over the last two decades. Revenues more than quintupled since 2000 to more than $600 million (2015/16) in the $20 billion machine and factory automation market segment.
 
 "This is a strong signal for our employees as our operations in Eggelsberg will become ABB's global center for machine and factory automation," said Erwin Bernecker, co-founder of B&R. "The most important thing to me is that the companies and their people fit so well together and that our founding location will play such a key role."
 
 The purchase will add to ABB's industrial automation division, which has struggled in recent quarters. Sales for the division fell 9 percent in 2016, while new orders dropped 20 percent, largely due to falling demand from oil and gas customers. The B&R deal is said to be ABB's biggest acquisition since it bought U.S. low-voltage-products-maker Thomas & Betts for $3.9 billion in 2012. 
 
