CHANDIGARH: District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directed   and   in Panipat to refund Rs 60 and pay Rs 10,000 as   following which the complainant had to   at the toll tax and also face harassment.

 The complainant, Vijay Singla of sector 49 Chandigarh is a subscriber of Fastag services provided by the bank for his registered vehicle. On September 18, 2016, he was on his way from Delhi to Chandigarh, when he reached the Panipat toll plaza at around 4 pm. Being a Fastag subscriber, he moved his vehicle towards the dedicated lane. However, as the tag reader was defective, he was made to wait for about 5-10 minutes.
 
 Thereafter the complainant was made to pay a sum of Rs 30 at 4.05 pm and pass through the toll. Subsequently, when he reached Ambala at around 5.34 pm he received a message from the bank that a sum of Rs 30 had been deducted from his account for his visit at the L and T Panipat Toll Plaza ETC Lane 19 at 4.11pm.
 
 The complainant again received a similar message on September 24, 2016. Feeling aggrieved, he sent an email notice to the bank asking it to refund Rs 60 in his Fastag Account and compensate him for harassment faced by him, but to no avail.
 
 The bank in its written reply stated that the amount was deducted based on the number of times the tag was used to cross the concerned reader and the bank was not responsible for opening or closure of the gates. It was stated that the complainant has crossed the reader multiple times and hence the card deducted the amount accordingly.
 
 After going through the documents forum concluded that the complainant paid Rs 90 in total for one exit only whereas he had to actu ally pay Rs 30 only . Forum held that the Bank con tended that in case ETC equipment is not working and if Fastag account has sufficient balance, the customer needs to pay the toll fee in cash at the plaza and later report the issue with the concessionaire. However, in the present case, when the equipment was not working, the complainant paid the toll fee in cash at the plaza and also duly reported the matter to the bank but his grievance was not redressed.
 
 Forum held that “if the machine is not in working condition, it is the joint responsibility of bank and toll authorities to maintainrepair the same and ensure proper working of the same, but, they failed to do so. Hence, the act of charging the toll fee thrice and then nonresponding to the complainant's notice certainly caused mental and physical harassment to him.
 
 They were then directed to refund the money and pay Rs 5000 as compensation and Rs 5,000 as litigation cost.
 
