INDORE: The autonomy granted to   (IIM), allowing them to grant degrees to their students, will now make several of its management programmes become globally recognised and enhance the market acceptance of courses.

 Faculty members and students welcomed the Union cabinet’s nod to the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) bill, 2017.
 
 Professors of the reputed institute expressed happiness over the autonomy granted, however, more clarity on the final shape of the bill is awaited.
 
 Professor Ganesh Kumar Nidugala, IIM Indore said, “So far PG students have been getting PG diplomas in management. Now they will get regular Masters’ degrees and Fellow Programme (doctoral) students will get PhD degrees.”
 
 Professors said the five-year integrated programme in management will get due recognition and its acceptance in the market will increase.
 
 “The change in nomenclature will be useful while applying for higher studies and employment opportunities in other countries,” said Nidugala.
 
 Professor   said, “PGDM courses can be called MBA, while fellowship programmes can be called PhDs. The nomenclature of our flagship programme will change. The name of the degree and brand of IIM will enhance prospects for employment even better than what they have right now.”
 
 Faculty members said that due to the lack of recognition of some diploma degrees granted by IIM, candidates find it difficult to apply for government jobs in India.
 
 Nargundkar said, “We may now launch new degree courses after researching the market. There could be different programmes in future from different IIMs.”
 
 According to the bill cleared by the cabinet, the 15-member IIM board will be given full powers.
 
 Professor   said, “The welcome step is that the board will also see participation from the alumni as well. It will have a say in the growth of the institute.”
 
 Shruti Suman, a PGDM student said, “This is going to be a advantage for us. Degree courses will add credibility to our resumes and higher education overseas. Recognised courses will also help us get better job opportunities.”
 
