NAGPUR: The  , Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) organized a seminar on ‘Indian intellectual property rights (IPR) — It’s impact and business growth’ at   on Wednesday. 

 Dnyanesh Kamble, a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Mumbai and a consultant to TCS, addressed the gathering comprising a mix of students, academicians, businessmen and start-up founders. 
 
 Several questions about patenting, its procedures, and the complexities and legalities regarding the same were touched upon by Kamble and U Guha, a patent attorney.
 
 “In the past couple of years Nagpur has seen an immense rise in the number of digital inventions and projects. However, there is an air of confusion and fear surrounding the process of patenting these ideas as a result of which these ideas and inventions have not been utilized. 
 
 “We felt that there is a pressing need to clear such doubts and misconceptions,” said Yogita Kasturi, the event organizer.
 
 While speaking, Dnyanesh Kamble highlighted the fact that Maharashtra accounted for the highest number of patents filed. He also said that GH Raisoni College of Engineering and Management stood fifth among all educational institutes across the state with 33 patent applications filed by the institution. 
 
 “Nagpur, has been among the leaders when it comes to patenting and innovation. It is sad that we are still not able to harness hundred per cent of the city’s potential. 
 
 “The main reason for this is that many still believe the process of patenting is complex and expensive. They do not know that new initiatives by the government have eased up the process,” he said.
 
 (Reporting by 
 
 Mayank Gurnani) 
 
 He added that India still lagged behind at the global level. “Even after having patents filed domestically, international competition cannot be avoided. In order to ensure that a design or innovation is globally competitive and secure, inventors should make a point to patent their product globally too. Our country has a lot of potential with a large populations which comprising youngsters. If we attempt, we can become global leaders in the domain of innovation,” he added.
 
