MUMBAI:  ,  , students with shunted growth (dwarfism),   and slow learners will now be offered concessions during   based on their requirements. 

 The state government has for the first time come out with a uniform policy identifying 21 disabilities/disorders for which students can be offered concessions/facilities at university-level exams. Apart from the regular relaxations such as provision of writers, public universities and affiliated colleges will have to offer an option of re-exam for students who miss out on exams on account of surgeries and emergencies and three per cent grace marks in cases of failure. Relaxation in attendance criteria too is part of the concessions.
 
 Universities have been asked to frame questions based on the requirement of students, allow them to write answers only in key points and allow them to write exams from home to avoid infections in cases of cancer or haemophilia patients. While individual universities were offering facilities on their own, the government resolution issued on Saturday, aims at a uniform policy. The state identified some new categories too in the list of disabilities/disorders.
 
 "Acid attack survivors, specific learning disabilities and other specific learning disabilities have been included for the first time in pursuant to the Centre's Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, passed in December. The government framed the guidelines in consultation with NGOs and experts," said a higher and technical education department official .
 
 Education minister Vinod Tawde said colleges and universities must ensure students are not denied concessions and facilities. "Thousands of students with special needs will benefit from the policy and it will ensure no one is denied of opportunities to pursue higher education," said Tawde.
 
 Hailing the move, Masarrat Khan, CEO of the Maharashtra Dyslexia Association, said, "The GR has definitely opened pathways for students with special needs, but implementation is crucial. To monitor no students are denied the facilities is important.”
 
 
