Mohali: The municipal corporation claims they don’t have records of shifting of main parks to GMADA. The civic body constructed three main parks in the city in 2005. “Maintenance of three main parks, Rose Garden, Silvy Park and Mango Park were never shifted to GMADA. It was always with the council before it was constituted as corporation. We have no record as such that maintenance was taken away from the MC and shifted to  ,” the mayor said. 

 The mayor’s comment comes in the context of a letter written by MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu urging GMADA to retain maintenance of six main parks. Recently, GMADA handed over maintenance of 556 parks in the town to the MC, for which the civic body has already outsourced maintenance for Rs 7 crore per year. Of these, 109 parks are maintained by residents' welfare associations. GMADA pays these associations Rs1.67 per square feet and the MC has declared status quo will be maintained. 
 
 The mayor said the MC constructed Silvy Park in 2005, equipping it a swimming pool for children and library for visitors. He said the library is running successfully but the swimming pool, swings and small tuck shops are defunct. He also said residents have started parking vehicles in Silvy Park.
 
 “Maintenance was taken over by GMADA and they failed to maintain the park which led to destruction of recreational activities for the public. Now, we will repair all such structures and restart recreational activates spoiled by GMADA. The grant provided by GMADA is sufficient to repair all such structures in parks,” the mayor said. He also said MC would not allow parks to be used as parking lots and warned residents against doing so. 
 
 Deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said people often complained about vehicles parked in parks and green belts but GMADA did not make any efforts to get the parks vacated. He said children could not play in parks crowded with vehicles.
 
 “It was a longstanding demand of residents to maintain parks. Parking of vehicles in parks is another major complaint being made by residents, which will be re-dressed after the MC gets possession. GMADA failed to maintain parks and give relief to residents from illegal usage of parks, depriving children of the chance to play in parks.”
 
 
