NAGPUR: Even as the   (NMC) prepares to go for polls, an unanswered question remains that whether the local body has enough autonomy to make the election worthwhile. Former Prime Minister   had enacted the 74th amendment to Indian Constitution to give power to urban local bodies. However, this amendment has not been followed by the state government in spirit.

 Even though the NMC general body is said to be supreme as far as the city is concerned, its decisions carries no weight until they are ratified by the state government. In many cases, this process takes months if not years. For example, NMC’s proposal to increase the strength of fire personnel is gathering dust in urban development ministry since months. As no big private company is pursuing the issue, Mantralaya officials are taking their own time.
 
 If this was not enough, the Congress-NCP government replaced octroi by local body tax (LBT), which reduced NMC’s revenue. The BJP-Shiv Sena government went a step further and abolished LBT and promised to compensate the civic agency by providing monthly grants. However, against NMC’s demand of Rs65 crore per month, it is getting Rs41 crore only. Its dependence on state government has increased further.
 
 The NMC corporators can’t even decide which ward they will contest from. The state government changes the ward system every five years. Between 1997 and 2002, one member represented one ward. In 2002 this system was changed and a three member ward system was introduced. In 2007, one member one ward system was restored but in 2012 two member ward system was introduced and now four member ward system has been introduced.
 
 This flip-flop makes it difficult for a corporator to cater to his or her constituency as it is changes every five years. Such kind of changes are made at assembly and parliamentary level once in 25 years.
 
 NCP leader   slammed the state government for fettering the NMC. “The state government’s wish to maintain its dominance has made such laws that urban local bodies are autonomous only in name. People are the ultimate losers as decisions which should take days actually take months. Moreover, many times the state government uses its powers arbitrarily. The latest example is the ward cluster system for holding elections. It does not make any sense,” he said. Arya also slammed the state government for not giving adequate LBT compensation to NMC.
 
 Seven-time corporator   also said that NMC did not have sufficient autonomy and demanded that the 74th amendment be implemented by state government in spirit.
 
 Political scientist   said that state government should not take away financial powers of local bodies. “If NMC does not have sufficient finances how will it develop the city? The state government should in fact increase its financial and developmental powers so that it can develop the city in a better way. However, as per the Constitution, the state government has certain powers regarding urban local bodies and it is its prerogative to use them,” he told TOI.
 
