Against England on Sunday, India gunned down England's massive score of 350/7 thanks to centuries from Virat Kohl and   to take a 1-0 lead in the series. With that, not only did India manage to successfully chase a target of or over 350 for just the third time, but also recorded the fourth-highest successful chase in ODI history. 

 We take you through the various passages of play that turned it into an epic encounter
 
 
 
 
 That England posted their highest ODI score against India owes to fifties of varied proportions from Jason Roy, Roe Root and then Ben Stokes in the latter-half of the innings. The new rejigged side and a change in format seems to be brought out a newly-discovered confidence. Roy looked in marauding form reaching his fifty off 36 balls. That England struck a crucial partnership every time a big wicket went down meant that they never squandered the early advantage provided by Roy at the top. England went in to score 115 in the final 10 overs, while conceded 22 extras that included four no-balls. It was one that summed up a forgettable day in the field for   in his maiden game as India's full-time captain.
 
 
 
 
 Ben Stokes is a changed man since the catastrophe of the World Twenty20 final last year. He has scored runs and picked up wickets for England in all formats and almost every series ever since. Even in the Test series which England lost, Stokes was one of the better performers for England. In Pune, Stokes who came out at the fall of Root's wicket, and in no time, notched up the quickest fifty by an Englishmen against India (off 33 balls) with two fours and two sixes. But his impact was beyond that. Before one could realise, the sixth-wicket stand between Stokes and Moeen Ali yielded 73 runs as England went from 244 for 5 to 317 for 6. 
 
 
 
 
 Definitely not; at least in terms of bowling. The Kohli-era is one where there is virtually no room for error. So in his first game as India's permanent captain, that is something one would have expected the Indian team to emulate. But instead, India were abysmal on the field. Their groundwork was sloppy and bowling wayward. The two bowlers to bowl their full quota of overs: Jasprit Bumrah and R Ashwin combined for 129 runs with Bumrah bowling three waist-high full-tosses that were called no-balls; free hits followed. Not just that, Ashwin returned with figures of 0/63 in eight overs - his worst in ODIs in which he has bowled more than five overs. Ashwin's 63 were also the joint-most he has conceded in an ODI without taking a wicket. He conceded only 20 off his first four overs before going for 43 in his next four.
 
 
 
 
 India's pursuit of chasing down 351 was dealt a huge blow when they were reduced to 63/4. Openers Shikhar Dhawan and KL Rahul could score just 9 before falling to David Willey. Yuvraj Singh, on his ODI comeback began well with a six and a couple of boundaries before he offered a faint nick down his leg for Buttler to complete a catch. Then came a poor shot from Dhoni, and a big wicket for England. With Kohli the lone man standing, India's hopes were severely dented.
 
 
 
 
 With Kohli out there, there was hope. But he couldn't have done it alone. Support then came from Kedar Jadhav; the same Jadhav who received an earful from Kohli for throwing his wicket away on debut during the Sri Lanka series in November 2014. Perhaps the thrashing was still fresh in his mind. Hence, not only did Jadhav opt to give Kohli credible support, he even outdid him in terms of strike-rate. The same confidence from Jadhav allowed Kohli to then take center-stage. He had already scored four boundaries and two sixes before Jadhav joined him so resuming the assault wasn't going to be much of an issue. He did so with a six off the part-time of Joe Root; and that opened the floodgates. Kohli reached his century with a six but 22 runs later holed out to Willey ending a massive 200-run stand. As Jadhav remained the key, he was hampered by bouts of cramps, but he fought it to bring up his second ODI century off just 65 balls, and India closer to win. He went down playing a pull but followed it with a six and four off Stokes bringing the difference between runs needed and balls left to three.
 
 
 
 
 On his return to the national side from injury,   had been the pick of the Indian bowlers on a day where the rest had been hammered all around. He picked up the wickets of Eoin Morgan and Jos Buttler after both had gotten off to starts and held on to the all-important catch of Joe Root for 78. Then, at the fall of Kohli's wicket, Pandya walked in and played calculated shots. He saw Jadhav and Ravindra Jadeja perish but that didn't bog him down. Pandya scored three vital boundaries and a six to ensure India wiped off the remaining 33 runs.
 
