MANALI: After 48 hours of snow-clad Manali coming to a standstill,   has been restored for vehicular traffic and power supply has also been restored in Kullu, Banjar, Anni and Nirmand areas. But, telecommunication and internet services are still snapped in Manali. Weak infrastructure and unpreparedness to tackle heavy snowfall had made life miserable in most parts of Kullu district since Friday night putting thousands of tourists in trouble as they were seen begging for shelter, warm clothes, shoes and meal everywhere, especially in Manali. 

 Many tourists travelling with kids were left hungry as small shops along highway ran out of eatables. While some tourists took refuge into the domestic houses of local families along Kullu-Manali highway till Sunday, many have left for home leaving behind their vehicles stuck in snow.  , his wife and two small kids from Faridabad got stuck in long jam on highway near 18 Mile, a village 10km before Manali. “We could not get rooms in hotels and guesthouses. We had to request locals. A family provided us room without asking our caste or religion and did not even charge anything,” he added.
 
  
  All the hotels, guesthouses and homestays along the highway where tourists got stuck were already fully occupied so villagers were giving shelter to the tourists, mostly to families with small children and elderly people. Upon receiving information that over 200 vehicles have been stuck in standstill jam since morning between 18 Mile and Kalath villages, a secluded area just before Manali, a group of local youths distributed refreshments and water among the tourists and also lit fire at many places along the highway for them.
 
 “We had no accommodation available for people so we decided to help the tourists after 9.30pm. I along with Chuni Lal, Nand Lal, Koshal Bhardwaj, Rohit Boktapa, Yuvraj Bisht and Suresh distributed milk and biscuits among children and gave water to the elderly. We collected logs of firewood and tried to provide relief to the tourists with bonfires. We then helped in traffic management till 3am,” a youth from Bran village,  , said.
 
 Residents said if   (PWD) had run its snow clearing machines on highways soon after snowfall, the troublesome situation could have been avoided. If power lines in Kullu were laid keeping in view heavy snowfall, there was no chance of power failure. This situation forced thousands of people to shiver in cold without any mode of communication. Two years back, the district had experienced even heavier snowfall but authorities did not learn any lesson.
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus Khan said PWD’s machinery has restored Kullu-Manali highway for traffic and drinking water supply is also restored. “Power supply in most places is restored and remaining areas will be connected soon. The main power lines connecting Manali goes through thick forest area and collapsing of trees have snapped the lines. Situation is now under control,” he said.
 
