KOCHI: If you have travelled along the Kochi   corridor during heavy rains on a two-wheeler, you would have dealt with instances when water falls heavily on you from the viaduct. 

 It is pointed out that people have a natural tendency to swerve the vehicle when something like this happen. And, it could cause fatal accidents.
 
 A WhatsApp message indicating the same issue has gone viral. While acknowledging the efforts of agencies involved in the construction of Kochi Metro, the message says these agencies should have considered the fact that the city receives rain for three to four months.
 
 The message signed by one Binoy   said: “When water falls forcefully from heights it damages roads. It will lead to protests and public outcry demanding relaying of roads. Tenders have to be floated and contract worth crores of rupees will have to be awarded for undertaking these works,” he said. 
 
 The message further stated that if agencies had the technology and engineering skills to build and operate the Metro it wouldn’t be difficult for them to fix the issue.
 
 Responding to the issue,   (KMRL) said they had already written to   (DMRC) asking them to address the issue.
 
 Meanwhile, many commuters complained about the water falling from the viaduct onto the streets. 
 
 “Construction works are progressing along many stretches. Sometimes water falls on those walking on the footpath. You cannot predict when it is going to happen. Sometimes you get drenched,” said Sarkia C, a student.
 
 DMRC said it was a technical snag and their personnel had already started working on it. “While constructing the viaduct we have placed pipes to ensure smooth flow of water. Many works were carried out after placing these pipes. At least at some places debris accumulated in the pipes might have hindered the flow of water,” said DMRC spokesperson. 
 
 He also said they would check for such glitches along the entire Metro viaduct and address it. The Metro authority also said they had undertaken the task to fix leakages reported in some of the stations. “We are committed to address the inconvenience caused to the public,” added the spokesperson.
 
