Two decades have passed, but   remains quite alive in the minds of Malayalis as Maya Vinodini of Ente Sooryaputhrikku. 

 Amala evolved into much more than an actress post her marriage, going on to win the Nari Shakthi Puraskar from the President of India for her contributions to society. Malayalis welcomed her whole-heartedly when she returned to the Malayalam film industry recently, playing a successful advocate in the Manju Warrier-starrer C/O Saira Banu. A usually reticent Amala opens up about life, passions and cinema in a candid chat.
 
 
 
 Fazil sir, who directed Ente Sooryaputhrikku, had called me quite a few times post my marriage. At that point of time, I was busy building my animal hospital, and my son was too young. He called me up several times and said, ‘I have a very good script! Will Maya Vinodini come back?’ I told him, ‘No sir I am busy with other things’. In 2011-12, a Telugu director invited me to play a mother of three. Then it struck me, ‘Oh, now I can play a mother’ (laughs). That is when I started opting for older roles. I looked mature too. I acted in Tamil and Hindi projects as well. And now I am here in Malayalam.
 
 
 
 Well, initially, I hesitated because of language issues; it has been more than 20 years since I did Ente Sooryaputhrikku. But then, my spirit told me that just because you are uncomfortable with something, you shouldn’t make a fuss. I took up the movie as a challenge and asked them to provide me a dialogue coach. I had to be very fluent as I am enacting a lawyer and my character will definitely need to have a good command over Malayalam and use a lot of legal terms. They gave me a guide and I used to wake her up at five in the morning over Skype to start learning. After a week of dialogue classes, the sounds became language and I realised how beautifully the dialogues have been written. I called up the director and said, ‘Yes, I will take up the project!' Besides my role, it had an interesting subject as well and I felt it is worthy of my time. 
 
 Acting alongside a great actress like Manju Warrier was another reason I took up the film.
 
 
 
 I had watched her movie How Old Are You and was energised. She is down to earth and genuine, besides the fact that she is talented and can get into the character with ease and grace. She is a lovely human being and an amazing dancer as well.
 
 
 
 I think when you have a certain name and fame, you feel like giving back to the society. People also turn to you; they believe in you, trust you and they look up to you. I found it a natural process to get involved in social issues and it’s been 25 years now. The initial years were challenging for me because I realised that no matter how much you do, you will always feel you are not doing enough. All I could do was strike a balance in the midst of it all. So I learnt meditation and it helped a lot. I got clarity on what to do and how to do them. The initial years were all about building organisations, managing them and then creating awareness in the community. I worked with almost 20 organisations in different capacities over the years. And when I look back, I wonder, ‘My goodness, did I do all that? But then, if you meet a professional of my age in any post, I am sure they would also have done a similar body of work. It really feels like a lifetime for me. I am glad I held on and didn’t give up. Many a time, I felt low and dejected but I picked myself up and said, I am not doing this for anyone else but for myself.
 
 A lot of women give up their career after marriage. But you entered social work and managed to succeed in it. Tell us about your views on this.
 Life has changed so much now. I don’t think any woman should give up their career for the sake of family. In fact, the day we got the Nari Shakthi Puraskar, the Prime Minister had invited us for tea. On the same day, he announced that the government has extended the maternity leave to six months. Women really feel the need to be with the baby soon after giving birth! Once the child starts going to playschool, there is no pressing need for a woman to give up anything. The secret is to build good support systems with women in it, as they understand women’s issues better. Surround yourselves with strong women and be a strong presence in their lives as well. Be an integral support system to several of them. The stronger the support system you create, the more you can perform.
 
 
 
 Today, films are able to sustain only if they have a big budget, so that they can be technologically and artistically great. Collaborations allow you to reach across markets. A film like Baahubali which had a lot of computer graphics required a very big budget and they were able to do it because they captured markets not just in India but even internationally! That's the way films survive, by finding new audiences. We saw the entire India getting mature as an audience and coming to a common platform. The audience are not looking for gimmicks but for depth in the stories and sophisticated technology!
 
 
 
 There is so much of new talent here, just like I see around the country. There is a healthy flow of ideas and with each passing day, cinema is growing and evolving in a very positive way. They are churning out better movies by the day! 
 
 
