Diabetic patients have a higher prevalence of   disorders compared with the normal population. As people with one form of autoimmune disorder are more prone to development of other autoimmune disorder, type 1 diabetics are at higher risk of developing autoimmune thyroid disorder. Up to 30% of women with Type 1   have some form of autoimmune thyroid disease. A normal thyroid function is important to regulate energy metabolism and abnormal thyroid function affects blood glucose control in diabetes.
 
    or an overactive thyroid gland is associated with worsening of blood glucose control and increased insulin requirements. The excess thyroid hormone cause increased glucose production in the liver, rapid absorption of glucose through the intestines, and increased insulin resistance. If you have an unexplained weight loss, deterioration in blood glucose control, or you need more insulin then you must see your doctor for thyroid disorder. Sometimes, hyperthyroidism may even expose latent diabetes.
  
  In diabetes, there is already a high risk of heart disease and hyperthyroidism further increase the risk of heart problems. Hyperthyroidism causes rapid heart rate and increases the risk of abnormal heart rhythm, may also bring on angina (chest pain) and worsen heart failure or interfere with the treatment of heart failure.
  
  Hyperthyroidism also affects our bone, if left untreated for long can cause excessive bone loss that lead to osteoporosis or bone thinning. In diabetics, who have peripheral neuropathy the chances of falls are higher due to poor foot sensation, and concomitant hyperthyroidism increases the risk of fractures that may result in disability, especially in elderly.
  Studies have shown that pregnant women with diabetes are three times more predisposed to pregnancy-related thyroid dysfunction compared to non-diabetic pregnant women, with hypothyroidism being the most common disorder. The rate of   is also higher in diabetic women than in normal women.
  
  In diabetic people, thyroid dysfunction is common and cause significant metabolic disturbances. Thus, all diabetic people should get a regular screening for thyroid abnormalities that will help in diagnosis and treatment of subclinical thyroid dysfunction.
  
  
 
  1. http://www.diabetesselfmanagement.com/about-diabetes/general-diabetes-infonnation/thvroid- disorders-and-diabetes/
  2. http://journal.diabetes.org/clinicaldiabetes/v18n12000/pg38.htm
  
  
 
  Dr. R. Senthil Kumar, M.D., M.R.C.P., C.C.S.T. (Diabetes & Endocrinology), Assistant Professor Dept. of Endocrinolgoy, PSG Hospitals, Coimbatore.
  E-mail: drrsenthilkumar@yahoo.com
  
  
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
