PUNE: An ‘on-board’ programme enumerating the basic necessities and issues people face while travelling by   ( ) buses is under way to add value to the much-needed business development plan of the transport body. 

 At a recent citizen engagement workshop, officials accepted that although the gap had narrowed down, PMPML was still not a profit making body. “The business plan, which is being drafted, aims to ease maximum problems which the PMPML and the common people face. In order to make it effective, commuters’ suggestions are being sought. So far, a lot of suggestions have come and details are being compiled to be a part of the plan,” chief executive officer of   said. Only 18-20% of the people use the bus service in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, which totals to around 49 lakh.
 
 “We need to increase it by atleast 40% and stress on things that can be done immediately to improve the services. Ernst and Young has been roped in to formulate PMPML’s business plan,” PMC commissioner   said.
 
 Sujit Patwardhan, the head of Parisar, who is in the business plan committee told TOI that several programmes, aimed at getting on-ground public views were on at present.
 
 “The work has been started recently by the consultant (Ernst and Young). Through such workshops, we are trying to know the basic issues faced by people traveling by buses. The consultant has also started an ‘on-board’ programme in which their representatives travel in buses, make contact with the commuters and try to know their views,” Patwardhan said.
 
 A representative of Ernst and Young said the questions were basic and objective in nature. “We are ensuring that we don’t consume too much of the commuters’ time in the buses. There is a set of around 10-15 questions and most of them are objective in nature. The commuter has to just tick one of the options. In an ‘off-board’ programme’, people are asked why did they stop travelling by PMPML buses? The whole programme of the business plan formulation started last year and one cannot guess the time on when the plan will be made final. However, it is expected to take three years,” the representative told TOI.
 
