MEERUT: Less than a fortnight after   began the  , much before any official directions were issued to the effect, the anti-Romeo squads have disappeared from the streets of the city. Police sources told TOI that the order from top officials was to 'lie low' as they do not want too   focused on the moral policing aspect of anti-Romeo squads. “We have been told not to venture out too much, as Meerut police has been receiving a lot of negative press regarding the anti-Romeo squads," said a police source.
 
  A TOI team went out looking for anti-Romeo squads in the markets, crossings, outside colleges and other crowded places where anti-Romeo squads were supposed to be operational. However, not a single such squad was found at any of these spots. Outside a public park, two constables were stationed. “We are not the anti-Romeo squad,” they are quick to point out when asked what they were doing at the spot. “We are stationed here as part of regular duty. We have no anti-Romeo responsibilities,” said Harpal Singh, a constable stationed outside the park.
  
  The women’s squad, which was supposed to be on special anti-Romeo duty, is also missing in action. “After a week of anti-Romeo action, we have instilled a sense of fear in those loafers. That is why they are not coming out of their homes now. They are scared. So, we do not need to go out on patrols as these elements have gone into hiding,” said  , station incharge of the women’s police station.
  
  Girls, however, are complaining that instances of eveteasing are continuing and the problem has not abated. "I think it was only for the cameras that the anti-Romeo operation was staged. Now, they are nowhere to be seen. Things haven’t changed. I was teased today. The anti-Romeo squads are seen only when the media is present. Now that the media spotlight is away, the anti-Romeo squads have disappeared," said a girl student of Meerut college.
  
  Superintendent of police, city,  , claimed that anti-Romeo operations are still on, and said, "The squads are out there and are discharging their duties as required.”
