Aurangabad: In another major action, the   of the city   a suspect while he was printing   notes at his residence here early on Friday morning.

 Fake notes in the denomination of Rs 2,000, Rs 500 and Rs 100 with a face value of over Rs 5 lakh, were seized from the suspect, besides a computer, scanner, printer and Rs 23,000 in   during the raid.
 
 Forged identity cards — one showing him as a journalist with a local newspaper and the other as an officer-bearer of a national political party — were also recovered from him, police said.
 
 In January, four men were arrested for allegedly possessing fake notes to the tune of Rs 36,000. They were allegedly purchasing the notes from some sources in different cities. The suspects involved in supplying the notes are at large.
 
 The suspect, Majed Bismillah Khan (42) of Indira Nagar, who was arrested on Friday is a criminal on police record and faces a case of forgery, police said.
 
 According to police, Majed would circulate the fake notes using his contacts in Mumbai and in other states by charging Rs 50,000 for fake notes of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 On a trial basis, Majed first started pumping the fake notes into rural areas, where awareness about such notes is poor, police said.
 
 Aurangabad police commissioner Yashasvi Yadav said the suspect was arrested following a specific tip-off. “It is quite surprising that he appears to be an illiterate man but still managed to print fake   in such a systematic manner.”
 
 A crime branch sleuth said the suspect has confessed to have purchased goods from the market with the fake notes. It is suspected that Majed spent fake notes to the tune of several lakhs of rupees in the past couple of months, he said. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Deepali Dhate said the suspect was arrested following an overnight operation. “Our sleuths were working on the input for over a couple of days.”
 
 Police said that following a tip-off, the crime branch managed to win the confidence of an accomplice of Majed and used information provided by him to conduct the raid.
 
 Crime branch inspector Madhukar Sawant said the suspect had printed fake currency notes of Rs 100 denomination also, but failed to get the desired results and did not sell them to his contacts.
 
 Police sources said that all those who have knowingly purchased the fake currency notes from Majed would be arrested soon. 
 
