Mumbai: The RBI’s move to increase   withdrawal limits without improvement in cash supply could lead to machines drying up sooner, fear ATM network operators. Also lobbying by banks to reduce the number of free transactions to three from five could lead to fewer transactions which will add to ATM operators’ losses.

 “We were hoping that in the absence of any breakthrough in discussions with banks on the issue of compensation of the costs incurred during the   period, the cap on ticket sizes would continue. A cap in ticket size results in more aggregate transactions per ATM per month. With the lifting of the caps, there will be an increase in the ticket sizes, and hence a reduction in the number of transactions,” said Himanshu Pujara, MD, Euronet Services India — an ATM operator.
 
 He added that losses made by   range between Rs 330 crore to Rs 380 crore between November 2016 and January 2017. This is now a viability issue for key industry players as their balance sheets are not large enough to absorb losses of this size, the Confederation of ATM Industry (CATMI) has said. Meanwhile, some banks who are net issuers (whose customers use their cards for withdrawal in other bank’s ATMs) have lobbied with   to bring down the number of free transactions to three a month. The banks contend that higher frequency of transactions is hurting their balance sheet as they have to pay the ATM owning bank for every transaction.
 
 Around 95,000 of the 2.1 lakh machines in the country are operated under the brown label model (ATMs that are owned by non-bank entities, who are in partnership with the sponsor banks). Here the machines are owned by operators, but the branding is that of the sponsor banks who also pays a fee for every transaction. In November and December 2016, the brown label operators have been incurring a loss as there was no money in most of the ATMs and consequently no transactions and no earnings from banks. But the operators had to meet their fixed costs including depreciation of ATM, site rentals, electricity and other operations costs.
 
 According to Mani Mamallan, founder and managing director Electronic Payment and Service, on hand the government has eased the limits on cash withdrawal from ATMs but at the same time overall withdrawal limits for individuals was retained and supply of notes was picking up slowly. “The number of hours that an ATM had cash was slowly going up with gradual improvement in the cash supply. Now with withdrawal limits being eased we fear that ATMs will be drying up sooner,” said Mamallan. He adds that until the currency supply is normalised the RBI could have continued with the rationing for more equitable distribution of notes.
 
 Given that average withdrawals from ATMs were around Rs 3,500 in the past and most withdrawals were below Rs 10,000, the latest regulation takes the industry back to the pre-demonetisation regime, but without the normalisation of supply of currency notes.
 
 
