NAGPUR:   joined the   ( ) as the assistant manager at its Hyderabad office. The 21-year-old city shuttler got a   job and a handsome package to boot.

 The tall southpaw thus became only the second player from the city to get a permanent service in a reputed organization through sports quota. In 2011,   got a job in Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) on the basis of her achievement in the national and international-level tournaments.
 
 Incidentally, both Arundhati and Rasika have been training at Hyderabad-based Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy for the last several years.
 
 Rasika, who is currently ranked No. 10 in India, will be part of the full-fledged RBI badminton team as four other top shuttlers also got their appointment letters. India No. 1 Sri Krishna Priya, J Meghana, K Manisha and Poorvisha S Ram have also been roped in by the RBI as they formed the badminton team for the first time.
 
 The women’s singles winner of the All India Senior Ranking tournament at Valsad, Gujarat, in March this year, Rasika was on a scholarship contract with Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the last couple of years. Rasika represented AAI in the last two   at Chandigarh and Patna.
 
 She will leave for Vladivostok to participate in the Russian Open Grand Prix badminton tournament next week. She has a world ranking of 129 after reaching her career-best 124 last month.
 
 Rasika is very happy with the RBI recruitment and promised to live up to their expectations with solid performance in the future.
 
 “I am really delighted to get a wonderful job in RBI. Actually, I was looking out for a decent job for the last 2-3 years and this is big relief for me. They selected all of us on the basis of our national rankings and performance in the last few months. Now the onus is on me to live up to the expectations of my employers. I will work hard and bring glory to the RBI,” said Rasika, a student of Arts at LAD College.
 
 With big monkey off the back, Rasika is now free to perform to the best of her potential. “Everybody needs job safety to secure their life. I am glad that I got a job of my liking. I have to continue playing in all the national and international tournaments without attending the office. I will play more freely now with the satisfaction of a permanent service,” said Rasika.
 
 
 
