MARGAO: Visiting the last bunch of houses during his door-to-door campaign, Margao MLA   repeats one mantra frequently. “Call me any time, 24x7. You need no agent to come to me. Development and all is fine, but you know what it means to have a door to knock on in times of need,” he tells the electorate.

 The residents of Sirvodem the sliver of Margao bordering Navelimassure their vote to him vehemently. They know from experience that Kamat’s promise is not an election gimmick. The former Goa chief minister still rightly prides himself for answering almost anyone’s call while holding the state’s top post.
 
 On his home turf in Margao, hardly any candidate has proven good enough to challenge Kamat for the last six elections.
 
 ‘Ab ki baar, satra hazaar,’ (17,000 this time around) shout supporters surrounding Kamat. Just as one begins to wonder what the slogan means, Kamat explains that a considerably higher target of 17,000 votes has been set by his supporters, as against 12,000 the last time around.
 
 If the other former chief minister,  , is lovingly known as ‘Bhai’, Kamat is affectionately called ‘Baba’. Assuming a fatherly tone of voice, Kamat tells voters, “I have been MLA of Margao when you all were kids. Every single project that you see in Margao town today has my stamp on it; from the beautification of Ana Fonte garden to the collectorate building.”
 
 In the sweltering heat on Tuesday noon, a group of Muslim women have already climbed down the stairs of their low-budget apartment complex to save Kamat the trouble.
 
 “I had spoken about the aam aadmi before anybody else. But people had begun ridiculing me saying, ‘here comes the aam aadmi’, wherever I went. Now, they are speaking about the aam aadmi,” says Kamat. His patience is somewhat legendary, after having faced with great poise the scathing criticism that came his way as CM of the outgoing Congress-MGP government in 2012.
 
 In the same carefree attitude, he tells a television anchor present for the campaigning, that there is no requirement of briefing him of the questions that will be asked.
 
 However, Kamat does lose his cool just on one occasion, when the journalist asks him about corruption charges against him in the Louis Berger bribery case.
 
 “People know nothing about my background. My great-grandfather owned a two-storey house on the station road, at a time when there were only two such houses on the street. Digambar Kamat was only one of three students who would go to   back then, driving his own car,” asserts Kamat.
 
 But this is for the news channels. When the Margao MLA approaches his voters, he does not feel the need to mention any other party.
 
 “Did you recognize me?” he jokingly asks each one that answers the door, leading to them all sharing a friendly laugh each time. Kamat then simply throws an arm around their shoulder or shakes hands and says, “Press the first button on February 4.”
 
 Whether it’s 12,000 or 17,000, who will press the ‘first button’ will be clear only after election results are declared on March 11. However, there is little doubt that, despite all his travails and surrounding controversies, Margao’s ‘Baba’ remains as popular as ever.
 
 
