LUCKNOW: Breaking her silence over the recent family feud within the Yadav clan,   patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s wife   on Tuesday said Akhilesh was “misled” into taking the steps he took. About allegations that she was behind the rift between Mulayam and Akhilesh, she said the accusations were baseless and won’t tolerate such disrespect in future.

 “I don't know who misled Akhilesh. He respects Netaji and me a lot. I have had more conversations with him since January 1, than we have had in past five years,” she said referring to date of party’s special convention where Akhilesh was elected as the new SP chief. She said Akhilesh had shifted out of the house but his rooms have been locked and are opened for cleaning only. 
 
 “Now he has shifted to his new house, but his place in the house is still there,” she said talking to a news channel in Lucknow on Tuesday. She expressed hope that the party will win a majority in the elections and Akhilesh will become the chief minister again. 
 
 Coming a day before the last phase of polling for the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the surprise appearance from Sadhna, who has maintained a conscious distance from the media so far, has created a flutter among the political circles, giving rise to speculations over the timing of the statement.
 
 “A lot was said against me when it (family feud) was under way. I have been disrespected in the past but I will not let that happen now,” she said adding that people who have no standing had levelled charges against her. “They would not have dared to say what they did, had I been actively involved in political activities of the party,” she said. Expressing her strong reservations against the manner in which Mulayam was removed from the post of SP chief, Sadhna said irrespective of the reasons and circumstances, nobody should have disrespected him. “It is he who founded and nurtured the party”.
 
 Admitting that she initially had political aspirations but decided to look after the family complying with her husband’s desire, she said: "Netaji ne nahi aane diya, par haan background mein kaam karte rahe” (Mulayam did not allow me to enter politics, but I contributed my bit behind the scenes). Sadhna said she was no longer interested in politics and will take to social work but wanted to see her son Prateek become a Member of Parliament.
 
 “I feel bad about what has happened in the family, but I don't blame anyone,” she said adding: “Woh ek samai tha …,” (The time was not on our side) she said adding that on one had thought that Akhilesh will rebel. After the family feud, Akhilesh became the SP national president after replacing Mulayam. After the “coup” the election commission of India acknowledged Akhilesh as the SP chief and awarded him the party symbol.
 
 Giving a clean chit to Shivpal in the recent battle of supremacy and control over the party Sadha said he should not have been insulted and sidelined. “He has stood by Netaji all through his life like a younger brother or a son would do,” she said admitting that the family feud will have its impact on the party’s prospects in the elections
 
 
