The nation celebrated another  , and floral tributes and chants of   reverberated across the country, like every year. But how far are the youth of today influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideals in their day-to-day life? We visit a few campuses to get a lowdown…
 
 
 Even non-violent student protests are suppressed inside campuses : Ganga Kalappat, MA English student, Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur
 
 It was through a diplomatic non-violent approach that Gandhi attained Independence for us from the British. But I have noticed that even when our students put up a non-violent student protest, they are tagged as ‘violent’. In fact college officials try to suppress the smallest sign of a student protest. Students protest to attain their rights from their respective college administrative bodies. I don’t know why they fear students’ movements. 
 
 
 His principles on cleanliness are very much relevant today: Amrita Ramachandran, MCJ student, MG University, Kottayam
 
 I feel humbled to have enrolled in a University named after Mahatma Gandhi. Colleges today don’t take an interest in instilling Bapu’s teachings or in strictly following the principles of Gandhi. But there are a few among us who follow his principles and try to imbibe them in our lives. I am inspired mostly by his ideology of cleanliness. A clean mind and a clean environment are next to godliness, he taught us, and that cleanliness should start from our home. We face toxic minds and polluted surroundings every day and I think this is very much relevant. But the cleaning of our surroundings under Swachh Bharath mission should not be confined to just Gandhi Jayanti.
 
 
 I follow Ahimsa and truthfulness, but not patience: Athira Kottarathil, student, School of Gandhian and Development Studies, MG University campus
 
 As a student of Gandhian thought, I follow non-violence and truthfulness in life. However, Gandhian ideals are difficult to be put into practice for the common man, I feel. I have seen the satyagrahas by political and social activists, but how many of them stay true to the ideology of satyagraha? For Gandhiji, satyagraha was till death. Also, I have to admit I don’t possess the Gandhian ideal of patience.
 
 
 Our education should be used for the betterment of society : Gopikrishnan S, Civil Engineering student, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 Gandhiji always practised his ideas. If all of us followed his principles on non-violence or Ahimsa to attain justice, there would have been no war or violence in society. I believe in the Gandhian ideal of using the education we receive from colleges for the betterment of society. That would be the real purpose of our education.
 
 
 
 
 
 
