He appeared confident as well as content about his newest release,  , when we caught up with   recently at a film studio. “SPYder is one quality film which all of us are excited and happy about. That’s because such films are made rarely,” said the superstar before settling down for a one-on-one with us. Excerpts: 

 
 
 SPYder is that big-ticket film where as soon as you buy the ticket, you’ll know it’ll be worth it. International studios have done the VFX part and I am sure the audience will be awestruck by the visuals. 
 
 
 (Smiles) We have immense respect for each other. For long, it was my dream to work with him. He’s a calm, easy going and focussed man, who knows what he wants and how to bring out the best in you. What’s more, he allows you the freedom to be creative in your own space. 
 
 
 Not really. If a director approaches me with a script and I like it, I get on board. I don’t think too much about repeating roles. A film, I feel, is bigger than an actor, and not the other way round. 
 
 
 This film is a great platform to venture into Tamil filmdom, but I honestly haven’t given it serious thought. SPYder’s budget goes beyond `100 crore, so it has to break the barriers in different languages to recover the budget, right? That was the main reason behind making it a bilingual and of course, Murugadoss is a huge name in the Tamil industry too. 
 
 
 The challenge was to stay focused; at times, my mind would go blank. It’s not easy to do a Tamil take and then switch to Telugu. The dialogues, modulation and even some actors change for every shot. It was like doing two films in 190 days. But I saw myself growing as an actor. 
 
 
 I have to thank her because I don’t think any other heroine would have handled the pressure of a bilingual the way she did. She did it brilliantly and quickly. Without Rakul, it could have easily taken us 30-40 days more to finish the shoot. 
 Produced by NV Prasad and presented by Tagore Madhu under NVR Cinema LLP, SPYder releases worldwide today.
 
