Gandhinagar: During the discussion on the governor’s speech Gujarat BJP president and MLA   challenged the Gujarat   to explain how and under what law they will give reservation to the Patidar community. Vaghani accused the Congress of provoking the Patidar community for political gains. Vaghani was responding to senior Congress MLA Raghavji Patel’s allegations about atrocities against the Patidar community. The house was also adjourned over a ruckus during the Patidar reservation debate.

    said deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, former CM Anandiben Patel and BJP President Jitu Vaghani are   have suffered the most injustice in their rule. Patidar youth were killed, harassed and agitation leader   was jailed on sedition charges. This government has came to power through Patidar votes but despite that it has done most injustice to the Patidar community.”Reacting to Patel’s allegation, Vaghani raised a point of order in the house and said, “Congress is instigating hatred among castes and is misleading the Patidar community in the name reservation. I challenge the Congress party to explain on record in the assembly how it is promising reservations to Patidar community and under which constitutional provision or which direction of the Supreme Court.”
 
 Congress MLA Amit Chavda accused Vaghani of saying, during a visit to Anand, that the BJP does not need Patidar votes and will win the elections by giving other backward communities liquor and chavanu (snacks). 
 
 Vaghani denied making any such statement and called it Congress propaganda. He also said that Congress is trying to spread caste divisions in society. He also said that he will challenge Chavda’s allegations in court.
 
 Shankersinh Vaghela, leader of opposition in the assembly intervened after the house adjourned over the spat between Congress MLA Amit Chavda and BJP MLA Jitu Vaghani Vaghela and said that the level of debate in the house was going very low. He asked members from either side not to make personal accusations. Speaker Raman Vora endorsed Vaghela’s views and requested MLAs to raise the quality of discussions.
 
