NAGPUR: The splendid BJP win in the NMC polls was indeed “unprecedented” as Devendra   had predicted. The promise and image of Fadnavis as chief minister and city MP Nitin   as Union minister wielding high influence at the Centre seems to have swayed public opinion. There is an overwhelming feeling that as long as this ‘team of two’ is at the helm of affairs it would be a win-win situation for the city.

 “In last five years, we could bring about so much by way of development in the city that no other previous regimes ruling the NMC could do in last five decades,” Gadkari had told ToI. 
 
 The BJP victory across the state will certainly make Fadnavis and Gadkari stronger. While Gadkari was more involved in steering the party to win in the city, Fadnavis single-handedly steered the party campaign in all 10 municipal corporations, including Mumbai, that went to polls simultaneously on February 21.
 
 “I have become a machine. Barely get two to three hours of sleep,” Fadnavis told ToI in a special interview at the peak of the civic poll campaign as he travelled even to Akola and Amravati for addressing public meetings. 
 
 During a two-day halt in the final campaign phase, Fadnavis addressed four to five public meetings in city and after that back-breaking schedule did networking visiting prominent workers’ homes having dinner with them till late hours.
 
 No wonder the impact was positive all over the South-West Assembly constituency that he represents and comprises prabhags 16, 35. 36, 37. Gadkari also addressed several meetings and gave more time than Fadnavis for city during campaign. As a result the party could get whole panels of four elected around 15 prabhags and three of a panel in half a dozen prabhags. 
 
 Gadkari was totally involved in ticket-distribution too and in effectively pacifying those who did not get party nomination. There was an unprecedented rush of over 3000 aspirants in the BJP for the 151 seats and finalising the list of nominees was no mean task.
 
 In stark contrast, the major rival party -- the Congress -- hardly learnt any lessons from the defeats in Lok Sabha. In the 2014 Assembly elections, the Congress could win only one of the 12 of Nagpur urban and rural seats. They only got deeper into trouble in the NMC elections as the factional fights erupted with Vilas Muttemwar trying to dominate the party affairs in the city. The groups led by Satish Chaturvedi, Nitin Raut were accused to fielding rebel candidates against official nominees in several prabhags. 
 
 All this led to Congress’ worst-ever performance in what was its stronghold not long ago. Even in 1997 when the party symbol was frozen and its candidates contested as independents, the party managed to win 35 seats. Getting the party back to its feet may take years now.
 
