Panaji:   and   would have been part of the next edition of   ( ) if their protracted talks with investors, including Bollywood star  , didn’t fall through.
 
  Mohun Bagan and East Bengal both held separate talks with Football Sports Development Ltd ( ), the body that organizes the ISL, and looked at ways to join the cash-rich league, only for both to opt out for varied reasons.
  
  According to sources who have tracked developments for almost a year, Mohun Bagan first initiated talks with Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), the successful Kolkata franchise of the Indian Premier League (IPL) T20 cricket, owned by Shah Rukh Khan.
  
  Mohun Bagan assistant secretary Srinjoy Bose – son of club president Swapan Sadhan Bose or Tutu Bose – held discussions with Venky Mysore, CEO and Managing Director of KKR. Both seemed to be heading along nicely; a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was also drafted by Bagan lawyers but neither party could agree on the terms.
  
  “The   ( ) also tried to help and suggested a French company who could buy a share in the club. Here too, the deal fell through as documents were not submitted on time,” said the source.
  
  Attempts were also made to have a tie-up with Atletico de Kolkata, ISL’s existing Kolkata franchise, but Bagan’s insistence on name, logo, kit colours and representation on the board scuppered the deal.
  
  East Bengal, according to another source, were offered the chance to partner Tata Steel, who were keen to have a presence in the league. The steel giants were ready to partner East Bengal but the club was unwilling to compromise on their name, logo, kit colours and, of course, management control of the club.
  
  Tata Steel, eventually, picked up bid papers on their own and won the bid for the Jamshedpur franchise.
  
  The Kolkata giants had also picked up bid papers but didn’t submit the completed papers after it became clear there would be no compromise on the annual franchise fee – ranging from Rs 12 crore to Rs 18 crore – or their insistence on playing from Kolkata, rather than other nearby cities like Silliguri or Durgapur, where the teams have played their home matches in the past.
  
  Should they now wish to play in the ISL, the Kolkata clubs will have to wait till 2019 when the league gets expanded for the second time. Both teams can also opt to play from Kolkata itself and not bother about ATK’s sole right to play in the city for the first five years.
  
  “The company agrees that in respect of the first five seasons which occur during the term, it shall not grant to any other club the right to play its home matches at any stadium within a radius of 50km of the stadium at which, in the first season, the club stages all or a majority of its home league matches,” states the agreement between a franchise and the organizers.
