PATNA: A three-member team of   (SPG) reached the city on Monday to review security arrangements for Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s visit on January 5. The team held a meeting with senior officials of state police and district administration for more than five hours.

 Sources said the SPG officials were not in favour of making the PM’s itinerary public keeping in mind the threat perception. The central intelligence agencies have alerted the Bihar police that Khalistani terrorists may create trouble during the PM’s visit to   to participate in the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh. The central intelligence agencies have also provided the photographs of some suspects to Bihar police. The PM, therefore, is likely to be advised not to mingle with masses at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 The SPG team reached Patna airport around 2.30pm and held a meeting for almost an hour with several state police and district administration officials, including the CISF personnel who would be responsible for the main security arrangement at the airport along with police.
 
 The team members later inspected several possible routes which might be taken by the PM to reach Gandhi Maidan from airport. According to sources in the administration, the PM’s special flight would reach the airport around noon. From airport, the PM would reach the ground directly to attend programme. He is likely to stay in the city for around two hours. The final schedule is yet to be received by the administration.
 
 “SPG officials are making some changes in the standard plans prepared for the PM’s visit,” said a senior police official on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The SPG team also inspected the makeshift gurdwara at Gandhi Maidan and other places. Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, SSP Manu Maharaaj, city SP (central)   and several other senior officials were present at the meeting. The SPG team would conduct a real time mock drill for the movement of PM’s dummy convoy from Patna airport to the venue on Tuesday. 
 
