BHOPAL: Congress members on Monday staged a walkout from the state assembly after minister for jail Kusum Singh Mehdele could not provide details of administrative inspections in Bhopal Central Jail before jailbreak by suspected SIMI operatives on October 31. A query was raised by   from Ichhawar assembly segment Shailendra Patel during Question Hour in which he asked if going according to the jail manual, inspections were conducted by the district collector and other administrative officers every three months.

 “Has the government made any rules about inspections of jails?” he asked. He also asked how many times the district collector, DIG and other administrative officers inspected Bhopal Central Jail in two years prior to jail-break.
 
 The minister replied that Bhopal Jail was inspected on December 7 in 2016. To this, Patel argued, “My question says how many times before the jailbreak, which had taken place on October 31.” Mehdele argued according to rules, jail sub-committees are in every district and they are responsible for inspection. Patel argued, he is a member of the jail sub-committee and no work gets done by the appointed body.
 
 “How many times have you as minister jails and the DIG visited the prison other than August 15 and January 26 celebrations?” the Congress MLA asked. Mehdele replied, “I have inspected jails.” Patel asked for specific number of times and the dates. “He had not asked for dates in his question,” the minister said, adding Patel was falsely accusing her of not inspecting the jails.
 
 Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “The MLA asked a pointed question about number of inspections conducted by the minister and DIG before jailbreak. We are dissatisfied with the minister’s reply and hence walking out.”
 
 Later, speaking to reporters, Singh explained, “The jail manual makes it mandatory for minister, collector, DIG and   to inspect jails every three months. As PHE minister also, Mehdele always refused to answer questions raised by Opposition members. Today’s question was about the jailbreak by suspected SIMI terrorists. If condition of Bhopal Central Jail is poor, what about other jails in the state? We were not satisfied with the minister’s reply. Hence, we walked out.”
 
