NEW DELHI: A   was   for allegedly   worth Rs 50 lakh and Rs 6.7 lakh cash from a wedding venue at   Hotel in  .

 The theft took place on April 30 when the accused, Gurvinder Singh, had gone to pick up a guest from the wedding venue at the hotel. While waiting for the guest to arrive, Singh started fiddling with the boot of the cars parked at the parking space of the hotel.
 
 He found one of the cars unlocked which incidentally had a bag which contained jewellery for the bride and some cash.
 
 Singh took the bag and hid it in his car. He then picked up the guest and later returned to his home in west Delhi’s Shastri Nagar. While cops were on the lookout for him, Singh paid off his debts, gifted goodies to his family members and even got a fixed deposit for his father at a government bank. Police say that he hid the jewellery inside the woofer of a music system at his residence.
 
  led a team to look for the valuables after they received a complaint from bride’s family. In their complaint, family members said that they had left the bag in the boot of their vehicle and had planned to gift it to the bride during the ceremony.
 
 The CCTV footage from the hotel and from the embassies in the area was scrubbed during which cops found the movement of a man to be suspicious. It was found that he had arrived at the hotel to ferry a guest to his house in Ashok Vihar. The footage was then shown to the guest who identified the driver.
 
 Singh was traced to General Taxi Stand in Ashok Vihar and a raid was conducted at his house in Shastri Nagar. He initially tried to mislead cops claiming ignorance about the theft but later confessed to the crime. He opened the woofer box of a music system where he had hidden the jewellery and handed over the balance money, Rs 3.5 lakh, to the police. 
 
 During interrogation, Singh claimed that he could not control himself when he saw the bag and decided to flee with it. He was unaware that the area was under CCTV surveillance. Police said that Singh had been arrested earlier on charges of causing grievous hurt with a dangerous weapon.
 
 “Singh’s father and family members whom he had given the money are also being questioned to find whether they had tried to help him in hiding from the law,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The incident comes days after a cab driver was rewarded for returning Rs 7 lakh that he had found in a bag that was left in his taxi.
 
