Nagpur: The Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (MCMOU) on Monday announced the name of E Vayunandan as its vice chancellor after conducting the interviews of shortlisted candidates about a fortnight back. Nagpur University Pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole and NU political science department head Mohan Kashikar were among the other four candidates interviewed in the final round on February 23. But the Chancellor's office held back the announcement. TOI had reported that Vayunandan, a public administration professor with at the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), was the Chancellor's favourite for the top post.  The Raj Bhavan, in a press statement, said, “The governor of Maharashtra and chancellor of universities Ch Vidyasagar Rao today appointed Dr E Vayunandan as the new vice chancellor of the Nashik-based Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University.” Vayunandan, who will succeed MM Salunkhe, has been appointed for a term of five years. Salunkhe had resigned before completion of his term on August 19, 2016, keeping the university headless. This also hit the functioning of the university badly. Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik, VC Dr Dilip Mhaisekar was holding the additional charge of YCMOU. Born on December 18, 1957, Vayunandan did his MA, MPhil and PhD in public administration from the Osmania University, Hyderabad. He has an experience of nearly 28 years in the field of teaching and research. He had joined Ignou’s New Delhi centre on January 27, 1989, as assistant professor and went on to become professor at the same institute in July 2005.  The chancellor had constituted a three-member search committee under the chairmanship of retired high court chief justice Mohit Shah to recommend to him a panel of names suitable for the appointment of YCMOU VC.  National Institute of Technology, Delhi, director Ajay Kumar Sharma and higher and technical education principal secretary Sitaram Kunte were other members of the committee.  YCMOU sources said that it was unprecedented that the announcement came so late as other vice-chancellors were informed about the appointment on the day of the interview. On February 24, TOI had reported that the chancellor’s office had conducted interviews of five shortlisted candidates including Vayunandan, Yeole, Mohan Kashikar, former registrar of Jalgaon University Ashok Mahajan, and VM Vani of Nashik, a day before. Vayunandan, Yeole and Kashikar looked the strongest to claim the coveted post. In the February 24 report, TOI had also stated that the chancellor’s office held back announcement of YCMOU vice-chancellor’s name after holding interviews of five shortlisted candidates because of the model code of conduct. Vayunandan didn’t respond to TOI calls. 