CHENNAI: When Mayilva gannan planned a grand wedding with all the fanfare and frills, he wanted coverage to do justice to the same. His elaborate wedding reception in Bengaluru -with horsedrawn carriage, A  , an impromptu flash dance, a private couple-only photoshoot in a canopy of roses -captured in print for his wedding muhurtham attendees in Chennai the next morning.

 “It was insane, the work, coordination and the fear that we might not be able to deliver for the client. We took photos of Mayilvagannan sir's wedding till as late as 11.30 in the night. 
 
 Then had to get the plates done, pictures, stories flowed in -bios of the bride and groom, snippets from the wedding, an article on the wedding guests, luminaries present -and print it as a newspaper for people attending the muhrutham the next day at 5 AM,“ says   , founder of DreamBig -which handled the printing order.
 
 And it is this ability to deliver under extreme pressure and at short notice, that has bagged Chennai-startup DreamBig orders from 200 plus clients and a Rs 1.40 crore loan grant under the NEEDS state gover nment scheme for MSME entrepreneuers.
 
 “We were impressed with a few entrepreneurs like Anuraj, who really stood apart when we conducted our programme,“ said Sajeevna, additional director, Entrepreneurship Development And Innovation Institute(EDII) Guindy , Chennai.
 
 His loan issuer   also saw promise -which is why his request for a loan extension to Rs 1.40 crore from the initial Rs 95 lakh got granted.
 
 “We conducted an inspection of his printing presses and we were impressed. He also has 25 years plus experience,“ said  , manager, Canara Bank.
 
 And so with his first cheque from the bank, did he go on a business expansion plan?
 “I was working in a partnership printing press -Global Graphics earlier. The loan amount helped me start my own venture -DreamBig, with some of the staff members from my old concern. But with the first cheque I wanted to buy health insurance for all my staff,“ said Anuraj.
 
 With the additional funds, Anuraj bought new printing machines like the Komari Lithrone 426, ancillary machines for offset printing, health insurance and started taking care of the educational needs of all his staff members' children.
 
 “We have a profit margin of about 25-30% and I wanted to ensure that went towards ensuring the future of the next generation. So whatever schools our children are currently in -we pay the fees from our company's accounts,“ said Anuraj of DreamBig, which had an annual turnover of Rs 1.60 crore last year.
 
 “When I had a partnership, we were seeing Rs 70-80 lakh turnover a year. But most importantly , I was able to ensure security like health insurance for my staff,“ said Anuraj.
 
 Another unique thing Another unique thing about the startup is the absence of a hirerchy , Anuraj and senior staff wear the same blue uniform that their most recent 19-year-old intern wears.
 
 “We operate on goodwill and just word of mouth advertising. We are a very closeknit team and can sometimes work 20 hours a day , because we see someone in a tight spot and want to help.
 
