NEW DELHI: A “spontaneous”   broke out at the Administrative Block of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Thursday with a large number of students gathering in front of the chief proctor’s office. They were demanding a rollback of the university’s acceptance of the University Grants Commission’s notification of May 2016, which among other things, stipulates the number of research students a faculty can guide and makes the viva, rather than the written test, the main criterion for intake into the  .

 In a referendum organised by the   Student’s Union on Tuesday, 3,398 of the 3,455 students who voted had rejected the   notification.
 
 On Thursday, JNUSU decried the tweets of the dean of students that alleged “JNUSU prefers agitation and demonstration instead of fruitful discussion”. JNUSU president Mohit Pandey said delegations from various schools and centres had only wanted to meet the vice-chancellor to tell him of their apprehensions about the UGC notification.
 
 Later, however, the dean tweeted that “on the request of JNUSU, the administration agreed to meet once again JNUSU officeholders on Monday at 9 am”.
 
 The day began with the various student delegations congregating at the Administrative Block. The group from the Centre for the Study of Social Systems met admissions director Milap Punia and acquainted him with their objections to the UGC notification, which they claimed would lead to “massive seat cuts and discrimination of students from the marginalised sections in their bid for PhD and MPhil course admissions”, a student reported.
 
 Disallowed from meeting the vice-chancellor, Satarupa Chakraborty, vice-president, JNUSU, said, “We will sit outside his office and wait for the VC to listen to the students.”
 
 A parallel demonstration was staged by the Bhagat Singh Students’ Association to express solidarity with the “Kashmiri pellet gun victims”. Umar Khalid, the PhD student who was one of those arrested on charges of sedition in February last year, said the members wanted to voice their protest “against the blinding and the atrocities afflicted on the young and old in Kashmir.” One reason for choosing this date for the protest, Khalid stated, was because “it was on February 9 that the students were bullied and their voices were scuttled”.
 
 ABVP was also angered by the administration stonewalling its wish to organise a “nationalist programme” on the campus. Saurabh Sharma, ABVP member and former JNUSU joint secretary, while condemning the protests by the students, demanded the resignation of the university’s administrators. 
 
 
