NOIDA: There is a lull in the three development authorities — Noida, Greater Noida and YEIDA — of G B Nagar despite BJP having registered a thumping victory in the 2017 UP assembly election. Senior bureaucrats expect a major administrative shuffle with the   government taking charge.

 The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have worked to a template under the   and   regimes but the general feeling is that there will be c omplete departure from that under the new regime.
 
 In the Noida and Greater Noida offices, there is an uneasy silence. The normally buzzing office buildings have a reduced number of visitors even as files are piling up in the office of the CEO of the two Authorities, Deepak Agarwal. 
 
 No fresh tenders for infrastructure projects have been initiated by the three Authorities despite the model code of conduct being lifted after the end of the assembly election on March 11. The three Authorities are also yet to hold a board meeting after December last year.
 
 According to sources, when a new government takes over, report cards of all the government departments and IAS and PCS officials are expected to be assessed in detail before postings are made to government offices. Officer close to the ousted SP government, who have been enjoying powerful positions for the past five years, are likely to be shunted, while BJP loyalists could be positioned in crucial departments.
 
 Sources also said that after the victory of the saffron party, some bureaucrats have already started cosying up to BJP bigwigs in order to reserve plum posts for themselves. Several files are allegedly also being “cleaned up” on the orders of the former ruling party to avoid any inquiries and cancellations of decisions by the new government.
 
 While there is a question mark on what happens next, residents of GB Nagar are pondering the fate of several important infrastructure projects, which are yet to take off and those already under construction. As is customary, every new government stalls infrastructure projects under way on taking over, even as the ones in the pipeline are ignored or put on the back burner. 
 
 In Noida’s case, however, the Metro is unlikely to be affected since all parties have identified it as the key infrastructure project. 
 
 
