CHENNAI: As metro rail rakes got rolling on Sunday on the first underground stretch of the   in the city , the state government underlined its intent to expedite the venture, stating that it had submitted to the Centre for approval a detailed project report for  .
  (CMRL) and the state government have drawn up plans for Phase-2 of the metro rail project at an estimated cost of `85,047-crore. The phase will have three corridors and  .
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Union minister of urban development K Venkaiah Naidu flagged off the first train on the city's first underground metro line between Nehru Park and Thirumang alam on Sunday .
 
 The first train glided smoothly out of the Thirumangalam underground station at 11am and zipped nonstop to Nehru Park within 10 minutes. Commercial services started at 2pm and, with stops along the way at Anna Nagar Tower, Anna Nagar East, Shenoy Nagar Pachaiyappa's College and Kilpauk, the rides took 20 minutes in either direction. Metro officials announced a 40% fare discount for a week. In a significant bonus for long-distance commuters, CMRL has also resumed direct services between Nehru Park and Chennai airport -a distance of 23km, with one train every 30 minutes.
 
 Naidu said the Centre is formulating a new metro rail policy to enable innovative financing through ventures such as land value capture and transit-oriented development for new metro projects, and stressed on the need for metro rail to have in place multi-modal transport integration. The latter includes bus stations, railway stations, other forms of public transport and parking management system to discourage private transport.
 
 Palaniswami said the state government has sanctioned an agreement in principle for Phase-2 of the project, which requires central funding. “We have recommended that the Centre approve and fund the project,“ he said. “JICA [Japan International Cooperation Agency] has included the project in its rolling plan for the year 2016-2017,“ he said.
 
 The project's ambitious Phase-2 will have three corridors between Madhavaram and Siruseri, Koyambedu and Light House, and Madhavaram and Sholinganallur.
 
 Naidu said the state and Centre have signed an MoU for Phase-2. He said the Centre would do whatever is possible and feasible to get the project on track. “We are willing to support phase-2 of the project. We will then move on to Phase-3,“ Naidu said.
 
 The chief minister submitted a memorandum to Naidu later in the day on approval of grants and projects including Phase-2, amendment to the MoU signed among the state, Centre and CMRL, and railway land CMRL has taken on lease.The memorandum called for amending the MoU for metro rail projects. It said, “The former UPA government and DMK government had included certain clauses which are not in the interest of the state and of the project.These clauses do not provide for equitable sharing of risks and costs.“
 
