Meerut: A team of researchers at IIMT University, a college in Meerut, have come up with a device which they said will help vehicle owners see the exact amount of fuel they get at petrol pumps. The device has a micro-controller and a fuel sensing unit, which detects the amount of fuel entering the fuel tank, and a display unit which shows the exact amount for the driver. The seven-member team of researchers now plans to apply for a patent for their ‘smart fuel level indicator’, which they said would be useful in the light of recent rackets in fuel pilferage in the state. Although similar devices exist in select locations abroad, the researchers claimed it was the first such system designed and made in the country.   The brain behind the invention, Ragib Khan (30), research associate and assistant professor at the college, said, “The idea of making the device came to me when the average fuel consumption of my bike started dipping although there was no problem with the vehicle. I thought that probably the petrol pump owners were not filling the correct amount of fuel and duping customers. The idea came to me some four months ago and our team of researchers started work on it in March 2017. Recently when I saw that UP police had cracked down on a fuel pilferage racket which used electronic chips, I sped up the project.”    The device took three months to be completed and cost the researchers between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000. The team said once their patent is filed and approved by the government, and mass production done, it will cost Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 for customers.    “The micro controller unit and fuel sensing unit detects the amount of fuel in the tank and sends it further to the display unit, which shows on the small screen the quantity of the fuel. The machine can sense both petrol and diesel. The amount detected does not depend on the shape of the container. Also, there is no effect of temperature on the functioning of the device,” said Sandeep Verma, a research associate, while giving a live demonstration of the device in front of the media.    The seven-member team includes Ragib Khan, Sandeep Verma, Akshay Raj, Vaibhav Sharma, Sandeep Mishra, KP Singh and Rehan Ahmed – all research associates. The device can be fitted in any two-wheeler or four-wheeler and does not need any specific design for the smart fuel level indicator.    Ragib Khan, who heads the team, said, “We have also sent our paper on the project to International Journal of Applied Science and Technology (IJAST), which is published by Centre for Promoting Ideas (CPI) in the US. The next issue of the journal will be published by June.”