CHARMINAR: It's a tug of war over office space at the Haj House that has now broken out within agencies of the Telangana State Minorities Welfare Department.
The principal agency,  , which has staked claim to the building has now asked other agencies to pay for their use of space within the building.
 
 The Haj House, originally named  , houses department-affiliated bodies like the Urdu Academy,  , Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation and some other organisations, which claim to be working on social issues of the minorities.
 
 The fresh move comes after the first elected Wakf Board of the state was apprised that several of these agencies have not been paying rent and other utilities bills regularly. “The chairman was informed of the state of affairs and told that on several occasions the Telangana State Wakf Board has paid utility bills of other agencies,“ said a source, on condition of anonymity.
 
 When contacted, Telangana State Wakf Board chairman, Mohammed Saleem, who is also a   (TRS) legislator, confirmed the move. “We have decided to convene a meeting with heads of departments of the bodies that are functioning in the Haj House. The meeting is most likely scheduled for Thursday and will have officials of the Urdu Academy, Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation, the office of the district minorities welfare officer and the Telangana State Haj Committee, among others. We are going to discuss as to what rentals can be fixed. The rentals will be as per current rules,“ Saleem added.
 
 According to sources the Haj House, which is a multistoried building, was constructed after buying land at market value. The land on which it stands was endowed by one Abdul Razzack, after whom the building is named.
 
 Syed Akbar Nizamuddin Hussaini, who has been a member of the board in undivided Andhra Pradesh said, “A majority of the cost was borne by the Board. This was done by using compensation funds like road widening and others. The government is not willing to discuss the issue as of yet,“ he said.
 
