BATHINDA: With   in full swing in south-western  , to get over the labour pangs mechanized sowing on a small scale is underway in Muktsar district for the first time.Cotton has been sown on 600 acres in Muktsar through a pneumatic planter. The target is to sow the crop on 70,000 hectares of the total 1.75 lakh acres in Muktsar. The pickings on these 600 acres will also be done mechanically . Similar exercise has been undertaken on nearly 600 acres in Fazilka and 300 acres in Bathinda.

 Though in 2015 sowing was undertaken through mechanisation in Muktsar, that year the crop was damaged due to whitefly and pickings could not be undertaken through mechanical means.Following this, mechanical sowing was not undertaken in 2016.
 
 “The farmers will get more yield from   crop sown through pneumatic planter and will overcome the big problem of labour as the machines will also pick the cotton after it matures. Earlier, only sowing was being done through machines but now the new concept of mechanical picking is being done for the first time,“ said Muktsar chief agriculture officer Beant Singh. “Cotton sown through pneumatic planter does not get damaged despite rains lashing the area and farmer will get 20 to 30 percent more yield.The machines are capable of picking cotton on one acre in almost one and half hours and farmer will have to shell only Rs 400 per acre whereas through manual picking the farmer has to shell out more than Rs 3,000 per acre for picking. Moreover, the new concept will make cotton growers overcome the acute labour shortage,“ said Singh.
 
 Under the mechanical sowing, the farmers will pay for two packets of seeds and the government will provide five packets of 450 gm each.
 
 An agriculture officer said that by using seven packets of seeds the farmer will get nearly 30,000 plants on one acre, that too very thick. This will save the crop from any disease and due to its thickness farmers will need less water.The height of the plants will not be allowed to grow more than 4 feet and to ensure it four sprays of medicines will be done, which will be provided by the company .
 
 Cotton grower   said that, “I have sown cotton on 5 acres through pneumatic planter and hope to save on labour costs.“
 
 Another farmer said that he had sown on 3 acres through this technique and hoped to make gains.
 
