PUNE: A motor accident claims tribunal ( ) has held that a departmental inquiry exonerating a state transport (ST) bus driver in a mishap case does not mean that the accident did not occur due to his rash and negligent driving. An inference cannot be drawn when a criminal case against the driver in relation to the mishap is pending before a magistrate, it said. 

 MACT has ordered the   (MSRTC) to pay Rs1.37 crore as compensation to the wife and minor son of a 30-year-old techie, who was fatally knocked down by an ST bus at Wakdewadi on old Pune-Mumbai highway in March 2015. 
 
 Among other things, MSRTC had argued that the mishap was a case of contributory negligence and that its driver, Shivanand Surpan, was exonerated in a departmental inquiry relating to the incident. The tribunal, presided over by its chairman Prithviraj Chavan, dismissed these arguments. 
 
 Victim Amar Rajesh Pardeshi, a technical engineer and Windows Server administrator with BancTec TPS India, was proceeding towards Wakdewadi from Khadki on his scooter when a rashly driven ST bus dashed his vehicle. Pardeshi sustained grievous head injuries in the mishap and was rushed to Sassoon Hospital where he was declared dead by the medical authorities. 
 
 In June 2015, his wife,   (27) and son,   (8), filed a petition before the tribunal claiming Rs1.55 crore compensation from MSRTC on the grounds that Amar was the sole bread winner of the family and had a decent monthly salary of Rs70,000 as well as a bright future. 
 
 According to the claimants, the bus was being driven at a high speed and its driver lost control in an attempt to overtake another vehicle and dashed Pardeshi’s scooter, resulting in his eventual death. The MSRTC had contested the claim, arguing that Pardeshi himself had contributed to the accident by trying to overtake the bus from the left side. 
 
 The tribunal, however, relied on a key document, the spot panchanama, which explained the manner in which the accident occurred and held the bus driver responsible for rash and negligent driving. Moreover, it observed that MSRTC did not examine the bus conductor, who would have been the best witness to depose before the tribunal as to whether the deceased tried to overtake the bus from the left side. “Adverse inference, therefore, is to be drawn against respondent (MSRTC) for withholding the evidence of its conductor,” the tribunal held. 
 
 The tribunal partly allowed the claim by quantifying the amount at Rs1.37 crore based on various parameters, as against the Rs1.55 crore claim raised by the applicants.
 
 
