Nagpur: An online portal that will bridge the gap between students and scientists will be launched on October 15, the birth anniversary of former President of India APJ Abdul Kalam. The science portal, initiated by Vijnana Bharati and CSIR, is also supported by National Council for Science and Technology Communication (NCSTC). The portal will work as a social media platform for students and teachers that will be connected to eminent people in the field of science.

 An outreach programme was organized at Neeri-CSIR auditorium to give information about the portal. Many principals and teachers from schools in Nagpur and other nearby districts participated. “We want to develop students in the field of science and connect them to Indian scientific researchers so that they can guide them,” said Jayant Sahasrabuddhe, national organizing secretary of Vijnana Bharati.
 
 The students will have to register through their schools, which will be free. The schools have to initially register on www.scienceindia.in and create a school profile. After this, they will have to register students from the school account and provide a user ID and password from which they can operate. Many eminent people in the field of science have been selected to mentor students. “The portal will help students get knowledge about science from the initial stage and help in addressing their curiosities towards science,” said Sachin Mandavgane, executive member of the portal.
 
 The portal will provide mentorship programme in which students can post their queries and also interact with mentors in distinguished fields to receive answers. A science community of students will also be available on the portal from where they can share information about news, blogs, thoughts and innovative ideas which will be addressed by a team of editors. S Chandrashekhar, director of CSIR-IICT, will be the editor-in-chief of the portal. Prominent people from the fields of biology, physics, chemical, mathematics and computer engineering will be national editors.
 
 Teachers from schools can also register on the website as volunteers to help students in their queries, but they will first have to send their curricular vitae on portal@scienceindia.in or editor@scienceindia.in for registration and confirmation. The organization is planning to get 3,000 mentors and 10,000 students from across the nation before its launch. 
 
 Hemant Purohit, chief scientist of Neeri, Annapoorni Shastri director of Bharatiya Vidya Mandir, and others were present. The next outreach programmes will be held at Indore, Thiruvananthapuram, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Delhi. 
 
 (Reporting by Viraj Deshpande)
 
 
