PATNA: It was virtually a cakewalk for the team led by Patna College’s sociology department head   Kumar Singh as it captured all the key offices of the Patna University Teachers’ Association ( ) in its biennial election on Wednesday.

 While Patna Science College’s chemistry teacher Abhay Kumar was elected the general secretary, Patna Women’s College’s political science teacher Shefali Roy and Patna Science College’s botany teacher M P   were elected the vice-presidents.
 
 Kumar defeated his only rival Sheo Sagar Prasad of Patna College by 73 votes. For the post of vice-presidents, Shefali and Trivedi got 198 and 134 votes respectively. Their rivals were Binay Soren of PU political science department and Dilip Ram of Hindi department.
 
 Singh was elected to the post of president unopposed. So were B N College’s chemistry teacher Irshad Ali and Patna Women’s College’s philosophy teacher Ameeta Jayaswal to the posts of joint secretary. Dinesh Prasad Kamal of PU ancient Indian history and archaeology department was also elected unopposed to the post of treasurer.
 
 There was no contest for PUTA executive committee membership either. As many as 11 candidates had been declared elected to the executive committee unopposed while 12 seats remained vacant as no one filed nomination for these seats.
 
 Those elected to the executive committee are Rakesh Ranjan of political science and Dilip Ram of Hindi department (PG arts), Arvind Kumar and P K Khan of zoology department (PG science), Janardan Prasad, Pushpalata Kumari and Archana Katiyar (Magadh Mahila College) ,   Sinha and Md Nazim (Patna College), and Shardendu and Sanjay Kumar (Patna Science College).
 
 B  , Patna Women’s College, Patna Law College, College of Arts and Crafts, Vanijya Mahavidyalay and departments of applied economics and commerce and education are unrepresented in the PUTA executive committee this time.
 
 At least 263 of the 276 teachers cast their votes at the Wheeler Senate House on the PU campus. The polling began at 10 am and continued till 3.30 pm. Counting of votes started soon thereafter and the results were announced by returning officers R S Arya and K N Paswan within an hour.
 
 The newly elected team of PUTA functionaries reiterated its earlier resolve to strive hard for the fulfilment of long-pending demands, including promotion of teachers from their due dates, appointment of teachers against vacant sanctioned posts, proper security arrangements on the campus, transfer of willing teachers from Patna Women’s College to other PU institutions, PG teaching in all colleges and health insurance policy for university teachers.
 
