If Lalu Prasad was in the soup over his son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s land deals,   chief and Bengal CM   may face similar inquiries in connection with her nephew  .

 More, a Congress MP has said he would raise the issue in   and the CPM said such scams are commonplace in Bengal.
 
  has accessed a series of documents that suggest that Abhishek’s company, Leaps & Bounds Pvt Ltd, received payments from a realtor, called Raj Kishore Modi, under probe for criminal activities including land grabbing and attempt to murder.
 
 Documents with Times Now show that Raj Kishore invested more than Rs 1.5 crore in Leaps & Bounds Pvt Ltd. 
 
 It has been alleged that commission was paid to Abhishek when he was a director in the company. Ironically, it was Mamata who had staged a spirited protest in 2009 demanding Raj Kishore’s arrest in connection with the same allegations of land grabbing and attempt to murder.
 
 This isn’t all insofar as linking Abhishek to the tainted realtor is concerned. 
 
 Documents with Times Now show that in 2012 and 2013 the two were bound by a chartered accountant, named Ashok Tulsiyan. Tulsiyan is not just a director in Raj Kishore’s company Green Tech City Pvt Ltd but also shown as the auditor of Leaps & Bounds.
 
  
  
 
 Unfortunately for Mamata, the directors of her nephew’s company, which include his wife, are shown to be staying at the CM’s official residence at 30B, Harish Chatterjee Road, Kolkata.
 
 This documented link has brought taint uncomfortably close to Mamata’s doorstep.
 
 Abhishek was also staying at Mamata’s CM’s residence till he became an MP in 2014. He had also quit Leaps & Bounds as director after he got elected from Diamond Harbour.
 
 TMC refused to comment, with party MP   telling Times Now, “I don’t know about this, I think it’s a wrong allegation.” However, both Congress and CPM said they would raise the issue in Parliament on Tuesday.
 
 Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “I hope the reporter who exposed this stays safe.” CPM   MP Mohammed Salim said, “It’s unlikely that any action will be taken against anyone.
 
 Rather, there’s a chance that action may be initiated against Times Now. We demand that ED probe the matter.”
 
 Minutes before Times Now was to break the report, its reporter Tamal Saha was served with a notice by Kolkata Police. Signed by the officer in-charge of Shakespeare Sarani PS, Saha was asked to present himself before sub-inspector H Dalapati. 
 
 The notice was followed by a phone call from the police station. Saha will appear with Times Now’s legal counsel on Tuesday.
 
