GURUGRAM: Around women’s day every year, institutions and individuals look to outdo each other in announcing initiatives (and discounts) for one half of humankind, conveniently forgetting the other 364 days in the calendar. But amid the tokenism, some wish well, and some gestures stand out. In continuation of its  , launched before Diwali last year — and with International Women’s Day very much in mind — Star Plus roped in Aamir Khan to play a man who chooses to turn convention on its head by identifying his sweet shop with his daughters, rather than (in the best Indian traditions) the male heirs. It’s a revolutionary concept presented with sweet simplicity.

 Almost without exception, Aamir’s roles in ads have been memorable. They’re funny, and meaningful too. The most recent, where he again bats for the girl child, has received plenty of appreciative eyeballs. Playing a Sikh gentleman, Aamir explains to a customer why his business has been doing exceptionally well — it’s because his children have been able to successfully set it up online, he says. The patron praises the endeavour and industry of Mr Singh’s ‘sons’. “Not sons – they’re my daughters!” the turbaned Aamir replies, proudly pointing them out to him. The film ends with the actor saying, “Success doesn’t come to a boy or a girl. Success only comes to the one with the right thinking,” before the camera pans to the shopfront, ‘Gurdeep Singh & Daughters’. There is a dignified radicalism about it all. 
 
 Sumanto Chattopadhyay — the Mumbai-based executive creative director (South Asia), Ogilvy — led the team behind the campaign. And having a star of the calibre of Aamir, and, to boot, a message that connects with millennials, made the ad go viral (it was even picked up by the BBC).
 
 This is the third piece in the ‘Nayi Soch’ campaign that relaunched the Star Plus channel. “When Star went to Aamir with the idea, he was very excited about it, and agreed to be a part of it. Which was fantastic for us, because there’s no better actor,” Chattopadhyay told TOI. And, he added, very few with the image and persona to pull it off with such élan. The thespian’s strong relationship with Star (‘Satyamev Jayate’) also played its part, as did having the right line-up. “With Aamir as the lead actor, Nitesh Tiwari became an obvious choice as a director, because they have a great understanding. I think Aamir being in the film has helped the ad go places,” Chattopadhyay added. 
 
