Mohali: Municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Sandeep Hans has issued orders to crack the whip on   owners responsible for letting their cattle loose in the open. He has also directed the sanitation staff to restrict movement of stay cattle and issue challans as per the decision taken during the MC house meet.

 Challan for stray cattle has been hiked from Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 approved by the house recently. In regard to the MC’s apparent inability to restrict stray cattle, Kesar Singh, a junior assistant in sanitation department, alleged that he was not allowed to perform his duty by an MLA.
 
 Councillors during the MC house meet had allegedly accused Kesar Singh of being hand in glove with dairy owners by allowing them to let their cattle loose on streets causing major inconvenience to residents. But Singh has denied all the allegations.
 
 MC commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “No laxity in restricting the movement of stray cattle will be tolerated. The directions are very clear. We observed herds of stray cattle roaming on streets during a sanitation drive in Mataur today. As far as Singh’s case is concerned, an inquiry has been initiated and proper action will be taken eventually.”
 
 The stray cattle menace has put the MC on a line of fire with councillors complaining of no relief repeatedly. The unrest between junior assistant and MLA case came into light after the latter caught the MC staffer allegedly informing the dairy owners about the arrival of MLA to check the cattle tied in a public park. Getting rued over the act of Kesar Singh, the MLA accused him to favouring the violators.
 
 Following this, Singh lodged a complaint with MC mayor, commissioner and Mohali SSP allegedly accused Mohali legislator Balbir Singh Sidhu of misbehaviour, using non-parliamentary language and restricting government official of performing his duties. 
 
 MLA Sidhu said that Kesar Singh’s act is against his duty. He has been caught favouring the cattle owners who violate the MC rules. “Strict action should be taken against such employees”, he added.
 
 
