

 The future of Goa lies in the hands of this generation; of every age, from children to great grandparents. This land has been God-blessed in many ways. We rarely stop to think about the beauty and the bounty we have inherited. Rivers, coastline, rich earth, greenery, a bountiful monsoon. The list goes on. In most places on earth, people inherit a land and then improve on God’s gifts. Hills are converted to forests, barren lands are monsoon water harvested and the bounty of the sea and rivers are tended to for more seafood and water creatures. This is the legacy that will be left for future generations to enjoy and improve.
 
 In Goa, our inheritance is seen by many as a cash cow to abuse at the altar of greed and personal wealth. The concept of ‘social wealth’ is almost obsolete. In most places on this planet, if they spot turtles in the ocean or a tiger in the wild, they will make a sanctuary. That sanctuary brings in tourists and eventually money. Says much about God's silent voices who don't have the right to vote. If the animals, birds and fish had a voice, they would vote out many governments.
 
 What will be Goa’s future via the leaders we will choose shortly? Do we listen to their promises and sops? Gifting of public money to make Goans lazier? Instead of training our next generation for success through hard work, we have political promises made that will be broken. You do know that, don't you,  ? We have heard them, voted like fools (this from a supposed highest level of education in the country) and live to complain on social media. Sadly to say, often over many a tipple.
 
 So, NO. We don't want freebies. We want jobs. We want higher education and above all we need to restore the elusive character of the once respected Goan integrity.
 
 In the span of two decades, we have seen a rapidly changing landscape that has impacted Goans negatively but benefitted tourists more than the residents of this state. All residents... who I consider Goan. Any Indian or foreigner who sets down roots here and lives, cares, nourishes the state is a Goan.
 
 Years ago, I predicted a  . The deterioration of our language, culture, and life. Some scoffed. But the truth and reality is here. Are Goans of Goan origin in a minority? For sure. In 1993, when I arrived in Colvale, we were 2,000-plus villagers. Today, we are over 9,000. This scary statistic would not have been possible if Goans themselves turned to lethargy to lord over migrant labour, became hungry for ‘big money’ land deals and became real estate agents par excellence. Do not blame it on ‘outsiders’. We sold out and laid the welcome mat as big as the state itself. While on the topic, consider this: Goans went ‘outside’ to make a living and settled in other parts of India and the world. Are they outsiders in their new state or country? No. Also many ‘outsiders’ contribute more to the state than Goans of Goan origin. So please do some introspection and admit sins as to why Goa is under a cloud and at a crossroads and a crisis
 
 There is much we can look forward to if we think and vote. And while we are voting, do not ignore the Goans around the world who are watching and wanting to help. To them I say, save a dollar a month for Goa. That is a million a month, 12 million a year. That is a huge bargaining chip and vote bank changer. That money over four years can change the politics and ground reality to change Goa into India’s most progressive state.
 
 Delhi politicians and bureaucrats think that what applies to the rest of India applies to Goa. Especially, during an election. Why do issues regarding Goa come up only during elections? Why offer sops? We are not a poor backward state that needs freebies and handouts like in other more needy states of the country. We are fiercely proud people. Respect our state so that we can keep Goa’s beauty, unique culture and legacy for Goan, Indian and international citizens to enjoy. We are a special place not just in our country but in the world. If Goa becomes like the rest of India or any international destination, we may as well order the pyre or the coffin and bury ourselves in what is increasingly becoming a worldwide malaise: The ‘blanding’ of the planet killed by a vicious Capitalistic similarity that turns a blind eye to unique cultural identities.
 
 My dear Goans...Vote for Goa over your own selfishness. Vote for constructive progress. Vote to retain our uniqueness and identity so that we don't blend with India or any place on the planet. Vote to make Goa tourism a family destination. Less adult entertainment; more family friendly. Vote for a greener, cleaner state that will use our natural wealth not just for citizens but flora and fauna.
 
 Vote for the Goa we inherited and what we are going to leave as a legacy.
 
 
 
 
