MUMBAI: After a single-judge bench termed their opposition to the redevelopment of a dilapidated building as “blackmail”, four members of a housing society in Andheri have moved a division bench in appeal. A bench headed by Justice V M Kanade posted the appeal for a hearing on Wednesday.

 Justice Gautam Patel had last month said that the minority of four residents holding up redevelopment of a low-income group building in Andheri (west) with 32 flats was nothing but blackmail and appointed a court receiver to get them to move out by March 10. Justice Patel had said it was a case which “highlights one of the ongoing catastrophes facing this city”.
 
 “More and more we find flat owners and society members being dishoused for years on end, forced into transit accommodation, their dreams of improved housing evaporating,” he said. “The causes are many and varied. Often errant developers are responsible ... but when the damage to fellow members is occasioned by other society members, then the enemy is within.”
 
  The high court said the redevelopment “was held up now only because of these four ‘honest and honourable’ members”. “They hold their own society and their fellow members to ransom till they find a developer more tuned to their ‘principle’. Theirs is a perspective of distortion in equity, defiance of law and defeasance of justice,” said Justice Patel.
 
 The developer had moved the high court against the four opponents and the society. The developer’s counsel Ravi Kadam said civic permissions for redevelopment were obtained in November. The society, through law firm Chitnis & Co and counsel  , said it supported the redevelopment.
 
 The building, over 50 years old, is in a dangerous condition, certified the BMC and the housing board over a decade ago. A redevelopment plan of 2006 was mired in legal battles till eventually a new developer,  , took over last year following a unanimous general body resolution of the Azad Nagar Shiv Sagar Cooperative Housing Society. Most flat owners were elderly and had moved out, barring the four who, as “honest and honourable members”, opposed the process, pleading through counsel Sanjay Jain that they be “heard”.
 
 “That the building itself, should it collapse, may endanger the public ... . So much for honesty. So much for honour. So much for being law-abiding. This is blackmail. There is no other word for it,” the 20-page high court judgment by Justice Patel had said while deciding the arbitration petition.
 
 In their appeal on Thursday, the minority members challenged Justice Patel’s order, which “imposed stringent condition”, on the grounds that he had not given them a proper hearing and that it was “contrary to and inconsistent with law and facts of the case”.
 
 More and more we find flat owners and society members being dishoused for years on end, forced into transit accommodation, their dreams of improved housing evaporating ... when the damage to fellow members is occasioned by other society members, then the enemy is within
 
 
