CHENNAI: Arun Kumar, 18, has a hectic schedule for the day. There are revisions, mock tests, paper analysis and peer discussions. With weeks to go for NEET, Arun is among a rising crop of students who are taking a year-long break, gambling away seats in both private medical and engineering colleges with the sole aim to crack   and bag a coveted government medical college seat.

 Hailing from Panrutti, a town in   district, Arun studies at a well-known centre in the city under a residential programme -- a new phenomenon which looks to grow with NEET becoming a reality for Tamil Nadu students.
 
 The residential ‘Repeaters Programme’, or ‘Year-long Programme (YLP)’ as they are called, give students the option after Class XII to enrol with the coaching centre and live at accommodations provided by the institution. Its popularity has risen in the last few months as a huge number of state board students like Arun have decided to write NEET. These students have never dealt with a paper like NEET which bears little resemblance to texts prescribed by the Tamil Nadu board.
 
 “My school asked us not to buy Class XI textbooks and skipped the lessons entirely. As a result, I was very weak in the basics and I needed a year to ready myself for NEET as 50% of the question paper is from Class XI syllabus which lays the foundation for Class XII,” said Arun. 
 
 At a residential programme, students are given sufficient time to wean themselves off the practice of mugging and approach competitive papers logically. Besides, there are a minimum of six hours coaching a day, weekly mock tests and time for peer discussion.
 
 NEET aspirants from Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Madurai and Trichy are now teeming the city paying anywhere between Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh to prepare for NEET. Those running coaching centres say this trend will grow bigger in the coming years. “The best faculty cluster is found in the city,” said V R Rajan, who runs Malee medical coaching institute and has about 70 students in his residential programme.
 
 “Even a score of 1150/1200 in Class XII exam means little to us because most students are used to mugging their books. To get them off the habit and make them approach NEET the way it is structured will take months,” said Rajesh Rajasekhar of Pioneer Academy.
 
 
