MUMBAI: Hearing a   posed to aircraft by highrises near the airport, the Bombay high court batted for  , but also wondered about the consequences if residents of buildings with proper licences were left homeless in the process.

 Despite the dilemma, the court seemed to comprehend the importance of flight safety as well as airport expansion for a burgeoning city , comparing air traffic to that on the ground and saying legal buildings often have to make way for roads.
 
 “Because of so much of expansion of the airport and monsoon in Bombay (sic) which also affects aviation, even if all buildings had proper licences but for safety , if (they were ) required to be demolished, what should be done?“ asked a bench headed by the chief justice.
 
 The court referred to TOI's July 16 report on the Directorate General of Civil Aviation ordering 70 buildings in Vile Parle, Santacruz and Ghatkopar to reduce their height in 60 days to ensure safety of incoming and outgoing flights. Interestingly, the list of “obstacles“ includes not just relatively new buildings, but quite a few two-storeyed ones built over 50 years ago and whose heights were cleared by the Airports Authority of India. Most new buildings have bigger portions to demolish as they are taller. The orders were issued on different dates in June and the deadlines would be in August.
 
 The judges said many people may not know about height restrictions pertaining to aviation safety but builders and authorities granting permissions should be aware. “They can't plead ignorance,“ they said.The judges also questioned whether at the time of construction, statutory restrictions were in place. Senior advocate Pravin Samdani, appearing for Mumbai International Airport Limited that runs the airport's operations, said it found that even in 1962, NOCs were issued by AAI. “A lot of fudging was done in fixation of mean sea level marking (for calculating the permissible height),'' he added.
 
 At this, the judges wondered: “If they have to be demolished for larger public interest and the situation is that huge number of residents is thrown out of their homes, then what should be done?“ Then the bench itself compared the situation to traffic on the road. “When widening roads, licenced buildings have to be demolished. This (flights) is also traffic above. That is something one has to see for a growing city like Bombay (sic). Every minute there is (a plane) taking off and landing. Pilot requires a clear view,“ it said.
 
 Senior advocate Joaquim Reis, representing BMC, told the court that the illegal floors of Sunita building at Santacruz, which is in the flight path, have been fully demolished.
 
 The court posted the next hearing on August 24, when it will hear pleas of buildings outside the inner horizontal surface who were granted permissions and have now been ordered to reduce their height, and also those seeking permission to increase the heights of buildings.
 
 “Some of the buildings coming up would get affected,'' said senior advocate Janak Dwarkadas, representing a developer setting up a project in Wadala, whose height has been trimmed from 139.9m to 95.9m. The bench, in its parting note, remarked that the authorities must plan “for the next 50 years, not 10 years“.
 
