PUNE: A   from the   along with his associate, who was brought in by the police for questioning in connection with the same offence, in the early hours of Sunday. Two constables from the police station have been suspended.

 The daring escape comes barely within 24 hours of one Kailas Yadav (42), taken into custody in a case of alleged criminal intimidation, escaping from the  .
 
  (40), leader of a criminal gang in Khadki, was ar rested on April 1 in connection with the hacking to death of a 21-year-old college student on March 31. The police had arrested Qureshi and another six suspects, besides detaining six minors, for their alleged involvement in the murder. A court remanded all the arrested suspects in police custody till April 10.
 
 On Saturday night, the police brought another suspect, Sunny Vijay Andy (25) of Vishrantwadi, for questioning in connection with the same murder.
 
 In the wee hours of Sunday, Qureshi complained of diarrhoea and requested the police personnel to let him sit in the passage leading to the toilet near the lock-up. The police agreed and brought him outside the lock-up. Andy too was made to sit in the passage with Qureshi as his questioning was yet to be completed.
 
 Police constable  , who was on vigil around the lockup, asked a colleague to keep an eye on the two suspects and proceeded to take some rest. When Thombre came back to the passage around 3.30am, he found both Qureshi and Sunny missing and the constable was also not around. Thombre later noticed the grille of the passage window broken and the iron mesh cut. He immediately told his seniors about the escape. The police have launched a search for the duo. 
 
 On March 31, Qureshi and members of his gang hacked Yogiraj Shivraj Khandale on the garbage depot road in Khadki after chasing him. Police attributed the murder to an old rivalry. Khandale, a second year BCom student, was supporting his family by working at a call centre. His relatives had taken his body to the police station demanding immediate action against the suspects. The Khad ki police arrested Qureshi on April 1 and six more suspects later. Two of them were taken into custody from Gulbarga in Karnataka.
 
 Around 12.40am on Sunday , a police inspector on night patrol had checked the lock-up at the Khadki police station. After an hour, senior inspector Sanjay Naik-Patil also checked the lock-up. It was after Naik-Patil left that Qureshi started com plaining about loose motions.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone-IV) Kalpana Barawkar told TOI that Thombre and the other constable, who were on duty, have been suspended following the escape. “We have also initiated an inquiry against the station duty officer of the police station,“ she said, adding that teams have been sent out to trace Qureshi and Andy.
 
