BHOPAL: A man from   in a bid to escape village customs and 'Naatra' ( ) cooked up his death and eloped with a married woman after naming her husband and three others for abatement of suicide in a note left near his pyre. Cops, who investigated the matter considering it to be a suicide case were surprised to find the forensic report that said bone from the pyre belonged to animal. 

 Now, a case of missing person has been registered.
 
 Prem Singh, 40, cooked up his death to trap his lover's husband and also save the father of the woman with whom he was eloping from paying up community fine (Naatra) imposed by the villagers. He set up a funeral pyre and set it ablaze and disappeared leaving behind a handwritten suicide note on November 20. He named four people including husband of the woman he was in love with.
 
 Entire village including his own parents believed he was dead since bones were recovered from the pyre.
 
 When his kin started searching for him, they came to know about the suicide note,  's aadhar card, his voter identity card, his ring, and his tobacco box was found lying beside the pyre. Singh's brother Hindu Singh informed police that his brother committed suicide.
 
 Police started its investigations. "We suspected foul play as the quantity of ash found from the site was less and even bones found from the ash looked different. We got it weighed, the ash was around 7.9 kilograms while bones weighed 1 kg," Khilchipur police station in-charge, J P Lakda told TOI.
 
 "In the suicide note the 'deceased' alleged that four people, Sajjan Singh, Biram, Bharat Singh and Mangilal were harassing him forcing him to commit suicide," Lakda said.
 
 "We registered a case of suspicious death of unidentified person as it was not possible to say with certainty that Prem Singh had died. We sent the bones for forensic examinations," Lakda said. Later, during the investigations it came out that the so called deceased, Prem Singh had an affair with the wife of Sajjan Singh whom he had alleged in his suicide note for abetting him to suicide. 
 
 And a couple of days ago, a community panchayat imposed a penalty of around Rs 4.5 lakh under 'naatra' on the father-in-law of Sajjan Singh as Sajjan's wife had an extramarital affair with Prem Singh.
 
