LUCKNOW: With seven out of 11 districts of   going to the polls in the second phase on February 15 having more than 30% Muslim population, it will be a real test for an aggressive minority outreach by both Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party. On the other hand, Bharatiya Janata Party, facing an anti-demonetization sentiments among voters, would be banking on a split in minority votes as a consolidation may spell trouble for it in this phase.

 Rohilkhand has always been dominated by Muslims and a number of constituencies out of 67 foing to the polls in Phase 2 have more than 50^% population of the community. In districts like Rampur (50.6%), Moradabad (50.8%), Bijnor (43%) and Amroha (40.8%), the share of the community almost reaches the halfway mark. In 2012, when the Muslims voted en mass for SP, it won 35 out of 67 seats while BJP could win just 10. The BSP had 11 seats in this region and now if it has to return to power in Lucknow, it will have to consolidate its position among Muslims to form a winning caste chemistry of the Dalits and the Muslims.
 
 Both BSP and SP have started claiming support from Muslim clerics and ulema to send a message among the community voters that they are the best placed to defeat BJP. While Ulama Council, shia cleric Kalbe Jawad and Delhi Jama Masjid’s Imam Maulana Bukhari pronounced their support for BSP, a large number of clerics and ulema, led by the principal of prominent seminary Nadwa-ul-Islam, Maulana Saeed-ur-Rahman Azami Nadwi and imam of Aisbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali met CM Akhilesh Yadav and extended their support to him. 
 
 For BJP, this region is most difficult to win as it faces the distraught workers of small-scale and unorganised trades and Muslims united against the party. With thousands of poor working in the  , wooden furniture and flute-making   in dark and dingy lanes and   to make two ends meet on one side and farmers prospering from paddy, sugar cane wheat and milk production on the other, Rohilkhand region, going to polls in the second phase of voting for the 2017 assembly   presents a picture of contrast. 
 
 Demonetisation has, however, hit the haves as well as have-nots of the region. If a large part of the manpower is sitting idle in the unorganised sector and the furniture and zari cottage industries, lakhs of farmers are hit hard too as they are finding no buyers for their farm produce. “We have no orders though the marriage season is at its peak,” lamented Suresh Agarwal, owner of a cane furniture shop, recalling how he had to hire additional workers to deliver the orders of furniture in the previous season.
 
 Badaun district in this region is a spot of prosperity for the white revolution being largest producer of milk in the region, while in  , Pilibhit, Saharanpur, Lakhimpur and Shahjahanpur, the impact of green revolution has over the decades changed the socio-economic condition. A good number of Sikh families of Lakhimpur and parts of Shahjahanpur have siblings in the US and Canada. The farm houses and resorts in this terai belt of the state have best of electronic gadgets and cars in their possession. More than two-third of 120 sugar mills are in this part and with highest production of sugar cane and paddy it is also called the rice bowl and sugar belt.
 
 But delving deeper, the economic condition of those making a livelihood out of zari work and   (kohl) manufacture has not improved in the past 40-50 years and they are still dependent on daily wages. This is the reason petty workers in the unorganised sector of Rohilkhand are worst hit by the demonetisation.
 
 For the ruling Samajwadi Party too, the challenge is to protect its citadel. The party has now allied with the Congress which won just three seats. The prestige of Dharmendra Yadav, Samajwadi Party MP from Badaun and cousin of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav is at stake in the region. Like in many places, the ruling party is facing stiff resistance from rebels. 
 
 Captain Arjun Singh , who was well placed in US and a professional pilot was roped in by Akhilesh Yadav to join his party and contest election. But he was denied ticket because his father Narendra Yadav is a Mulayam loyalist. Now, Arjun Singh is contesting from the Dataganj assembly constituency independently and challenging the SP-Congress alliance.
 
 After Badaun, the party’s prestige is at stake in Rampur a district represented by powerful minister Mohammed Azam Khan who is contesting this time along with his son, while Azam’s wife is already a Rajya Sabha member. Azam is so tied up in his home district for his and his son’s elections that even so close to the third phase of polls he has not yet stepped out of his home to campaign for other candidates of the party.
 
 Across Rohilkhand, the Congress hopes hinge on its firebrand leader Imran Masood of Saharanpur. Masood has worked hard in the district and adjoining constituencies and Congress had gave him free hand in ticket distribution. Former Union minister Jitin Prasada is also contesting from Tilhar assembly while the sitting MLA of the party Sanjay Kapoor is seeking his re-election.
 
 
