By:
 

 For over a decade  , one of the accused in the 2005 Indian Institute of Science (IISc) terror strike, was leading a   as a resident of  , a densely populated middle-class neighbourhood about four kilometres from the Indo-Bangladesh border in Agartala. According to Tripura police, the 37-year-old-man charge-sheeted in the case as a points-man of   for cross-overs into Bangladesh, was known to the residents as a plumber.
 
 Being popular among the locals as a handyman, when he was produced before the West Tripura court on Saturday to be taken to Bengaluru, a mob of about 60 people laid siege to the court complex. Senior police officials from Tripura claim that residents and Miyan’s family members got upset when they realised that he was being taken to Karnataka. It took a team of Tripura police to diffuse the tension who explained to the crowd that the Bengaluru cops had come with relevant documents and there was a warrant against him in connection with the 2005 terror strike. Habib Miyan is the seventh accused in the charge sheet just before Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the chief of operations of LeT in Kashmir at eight, in the IISc attack.
 
 “His family members and local residents wanted to know why he was being taken out of the state. We explained the situation to them. There is no criminal case pending against Habib Miyan in Tripura as far as we know,” a senior Tripura police official who supervised Habib Miyan’s arrest, said.
 
 Abhijeet Saptarishi, superintendent of police, West Tripura told BM that the local police team had taken Habib Miyan into custody based on inputs shared by Karnataka police. He added that Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) was also involved in the operation as they were also tracking Habib Miyan. Habib Miyan, according to Tripura police, was residing in a joint family with his eight siblings (four brothers and four sisters) and his wife.
 
 Tripura authorities confirmed that Habib Miyan had a valid Indian voter identity card and other documents, but added that his family had its roots in Bangladesh. His
 grandmother hailed from Comilla in Bangladesh.
 
 
 
 Apart from local resistance, Karnataka police had to deal with some last-minute confusions before they could escort Habib Miyan to Bengaluru. The four-member Bengaluru Central Crime Branch team consisting of an ACP, two inspectors and a constable arrived in Tripura on Saturday with a body warrant for the arrest of Habib Miyan. However, Habib Miyan’s lawyer pointed out in court that he could be taken out of the state only on a transit warrant approved by the court. The officers with the help of Tripura police immediately approached the district magistrate of Agartala and got a transit warrant for the man. The city police team also had some trouble with travel documents for bringing him back to the city by flight as they had to give a written declaration as per the Bureau of Civil Aviation norms for escorting a prisoner in a commercial airline. It had to be arranged at the last minute to fly Habib Miyan from Agartala to Kolkata and then to Bengaluru.
 
 
 “We had to rush to the Agartala district magistrate and convince him to issue a transit warrant, which was produced before the court, only then were we permitted to take him out of Tripura. A written declaration was also sent to Tripura to ensure that Habib Miyan was allowed to be flown back to the city late on Saturday itself,” the officer said.
 
 
 
 
 According to senior officials in Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Karnataka police had shared intel inputs on Habib Miyan planning to visit Gujarat and Rajasthan last month. They claimed that a trap was laid to apprehend him, but Miyan did not turn up either at Ahmedabad or Rajasthan. “We had his phone on surveillance though, and it was confirmed that he was in Tripura. Our team was also involved in the operation,” said a senior Gujarat ATS official.
 
 Himanshu Shukla, superintendent of police, Gujarat ATS, told BM that his squad was part of the operation and also confirmed that information on Habib Miyan was shared between Gujarat and Bengaluru police. Gujarat ATS officers added that they were monitoring terror operatives with pending warrants against them. Terror suspects accused of having links with cross-border terror outfits like the LeT are high-priority targets, and closely monitored. They added that as of now Habib Miyan was not wanted in connection with any case in Gujarat either.
 
 
 
 
 Two gunmen in military outfits had opened fire and hurled grenades in the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) campus in the city on December 28, 2005, killing one person and injuring four others. As per the charge-sheet filed in the IISc attack case, all nine of the accused were part of a Lashkar e-Taiba terror module. The operations chief of the LeT Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi has been charged as the eighth accused in the case.
 
 Sabahuddin Ahamed, a resident of Patna is the main accused in the case along with the elusive Pakistani terror operative Abu Hamza, who is supposed to have died in 2009, which is yet to be confirmed. The remaining accused are Muzammil Yusuf from Punjab province in Pakistan, Abdul Azeez from Faisalabad in Pakistan, Abu Shadath from Punjab in Pakistan, Abu Bakr from Anantnag in Kashmir, Habib Miyan from Tripura and Basheer from Srinagar.
 
 Sabahuddin was arrested in connection with the 2008 attack on CRPF camp in Rampur in Uttar Pradesh and is presently in the Lucknow prison. Sabahuddin, according to sources, was a trained LeT operative and was booked as the main accused as he was involved in the procurement of arms and ammunition used in the IISc attack from Pakistan and then transporting it to Bengaluru.
 
 Sabahuddin had revealed to investigators that Habib Miyan had helped him cross over to Bangladesh on more than one occasion. According to Gujarat ATS sources, Miyan was aware of the IISc plot and had willingly collaborated with LeT operatives.
 
 As of now, Habib Miyan is being interrogated by senior officials of the Central Crime Branch, Internal Security Division and also the Intelligence units at an undisclosed location in the city.
 
 “We had been monitoring Habib Miyan for sometime now and now that he is in our custody, we are interrogating him for more leads on the status of the remaining absconding accused,” said S Ravi, additional commissioner of police (Crime), Bengaluru.
 
 
