PANAJI: The benefits of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) are beginning to trickle to the outskirts of Panaji. Under the   mission, the Ribandar junction and Chimbel creek will get a facelift, including a boardwalk over the salt pans and a new floating jetty for fishermen.

 Revitalization of the area will coincide with the proposal to permanently shut down the iconic Ribandar Panaji causeway, said Sidharth Kuncolienkar, vice chairman,   (GSIDC).
 
 GSIDC has already prepared the detailed project report, and the tender to select the contractor will be floated in a month’s time.
 
 Explaining the salient features of the project, the mission director for AMRUT and Smart City Mission, Swayandipta Pal Chaudhuri said that a biodiversity park would be created along with an interpretation centre through which citizens could learn and interact with flora and fauna that is found in Panaji.
 
 Similarly, a new municipal market will come up near the existing dilapidated market complex that was built but hardly utilized. A police outpost, an extension office of CCP and other utility offices will come up near the market, Chaudhuri said.
 
 As part of the project, a floating jetty will be also be built at  . “The initial discussions with the fishermen have been held. A wider consultation process will be held so that all the citizens can give their inputs,” he added.
 
 All these aspects finds mention in the State Annual Action Plan (SAAP) for 2017-18 which has already been approved by the state high powered steering committee for AMRUT, including a boardwalk along the salt pans in the   area.
 
 The total funds sought under the AMRUT mission for 2017-18 is Rs 80.14 crore, out of which the central government and state government will contribute Rs 40.07 crore each.
 
 As per the SAAP for 2017-18, creation of the biodiversity park would cost an estimated Rs 2 crore.
 
 One of the key objectives of the AMRUT mission in Goa is to increase greenery and open spaces and a simultaneous reduction in pollution by switching to public transport or non-motorized transport.
 
