NAGPUR: The   at Dharampeth dispensed a Rs 2000 note that was nibbled at from the sides. It appeared as if the corners were bitten off by mice. Amid questions on how the note reached the ATM, the bank took it back after initial reluctance. Bank sources said it may be due to oversight.

 The note, which did not appear counterfeit in manual examination, has been sent to bank’s currency chest for further verification, said officials at the branch. The   is attached to Dharampeth branch of Union Bank. Since it is within the branch, the cash is filled up by the bank itself. The work is typically outsourced in case of offsite ATMs. 
 
 Bankers to whom picture of the note was shown said it was still acceptable currency as the number had not been damaged. It may pass a fake note detector if the part having security features are not damaged. 
 
 TOI staffer Rammurti Nerlay, who had gone to the ATM on Sunday, received the nibbled note, he reached the bank next day. After a long argument, the bank exchanged the note. It also took Nerlay’s contact details saying they may revert if the note is not accepted by its head office. When TOI inquired into the matter later, officials came up with some possibilities. 
 
 They said some customer may have deposited the note with them by hiding the torn part in the inner side of a bundle and hence it was not detected in the counting machine. The notes are counted in the machine without opening the bundle. For ascertaining the genuineness, a separate machine is used where the notes are unbundled and spread under a scanner. However, this is done only in case of a doubt. 
 
 The same notes may have gone into the ATM. Though the bundle is opened before being kept in the ATM, a thorough check is not done as it is supposed to happen during deposit at the counters. The second possibility is that the note may have come through a deposit machine and from there into the ATM, said the source. In case it is deemed not usable, it will be discarded as soiled currency. In case found fake, further investigation will be carried and the matter reported to police.
 
 Banks receive their cash as deposits from customers or from RBI that remits to its currency chest. RBI only sends those old notes that it deems re-issuable to the banks. Notes are sorted using a machine called currency verification and processing system (CVPS). It also separates fake notes. 
 
