SURAT: The textile entrepreneurs at the   has made representation to the   (GIDC) to transfer 20,000 sq m land to the Sachin GIDC association for developing state-of-the-art hospital for the textile workers. 

 Over three lakh workers employed in the powerloom, textile ancillaries and textile dyeing and printing mills in Sachin GIDC are literally at the mercy of the god due to the non-availability of emergency medical services inside the industrial area. 
 
 The GIDC, which houses over 2,250 units including weaving, textile ancillary and textile dyeing and printing mills, is without a proper hospital to take care of the workers’ health and during the time of the unforeseen emergency situation. 
 
 In absence of a full-fledge hospital, the unit owners have to rush their workers, injured or severely ill, to the government or private hospitals located some 11 km away from the GIDC.
 
 Sources said that the GIDC had provided around 10,000 square metre land for developing hospital facility in 1998. However, the care-takers failed to set up a hospital, and instead ended up setting up a small dispensary, which is ill-equipped to handle any emergency situations. 
 
 The Sachin GIDC was established in 1964 on 703 hectares of land. At present, there are 2,250 units, including 1,750 textile units, 70 dyeing and printing mills, 40 dyes and chemical units, 50 engineering units and the rest are textile ancillary units. 
 
 The GIDC has the annual turnover exceeding Rs 8,000 crore and it provides direct employment to over 3.5 lakh people, which includes a majority of the workers employed in textile, chemical, textile processing and engineering units.
 
 President of Sachin GIDC weavers association, Mahendra   said, “We met the senior authorities in the GIDC and have expressed our willingness to construct the hospital for providing medical services to the workers, provided the GIDC takes the land back from the NGO and allot the same to us. There are few industrialists in the GIDC who are ready to fund the hospital project.”
 
 Ramoliya added, “If the GIDC authorities fail to allot the land, then we are prepared to meet Gujarat chief minister  .”
 
