
 COIMBATORE: In a bid to encourage the women in the city to follow their entrepreneurial dreams, the Coimbatore chapter of the Indian Women Network (IWN) organised an interaction with eight young city-based   on the occasion of the International Women’s Day on Wednesday.
 
 Though the topic of the session was ‘Break the Glass Ceiling For All Right Reasons’, the young entrepreneurs denied the existence of a glass ceiling.
 
 “When we asked them about their struggles to break the glass ceiling, the entrepreneurs said they did not really face one,” said the co-convenor of IWN Coimbatore zone,  . “The challenges they faced were more about funding, right guidance, scaling up and maintaining work-life balance rather than fighting gender bias or stereotypes,” she told TOI.
 
 Niveditha Jayaraj, who runs Snacksbazzar.com, spoke about constantly needing to prove herself and highlight the fact that her venture is successful. Make-up artist Steffhy spoke about difficulties in maintaining work-life balance after marriage, especially due to frequent travels.
 
 Self-doubt was a major challenge many entrepreneurs like director of Bakeroe, J Praveena, and founder of Mystiq Studio,  , had to deal with. “With not having a background in the food industry and having studied fashion designing, in the initial two years I kept doubting my decision to start the business as I found it difficult to take it forward,” said Praveena. “There is also a lack of awareness among the many schemes and subsidies available for women entrepreneurs,” she said.
 
 “ In my case, I was doubtful if there was even a market for zentangle art pieces, because there are so many apps with which you can create your own art and just print it out,” said Ishwarya, who started her venture last October.
 
 The panellists, who also took questions from the audience, also spoke about how important it is to follow their passion. “Though my family was extremely supportive, it is important to persevere and stick to what you are doing. It is also important to keep trying to scale up,” said Shyama Ridhu Varrnan, who started a boutique,  , seven years ago. She is also a zumba instructor and is now planning to launch online sales.
 
 The panellists also stressed on innovation, use of technology and learning at every level.
 
 
