NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of   on Thursday came down heavily on Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) for allowing construction of a hospital in a narrow lane at Dhantoli, which has led to the road being damaged. The HC orally directed the civic body to re-lay the entire stretch within 24 hours.

 A division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice   further directed the corporation to submit a report on Friday. The stringent directives came while hearing a new PIL by   filed through counsel   over severe parking problem faced by residents due to the hospitals.
 
 The road is just behind Gorakshan Sabha, and was damaged during construction of an upcoming hospital in the area, near Spandan Hospital. As a result, the entire traffic has been diverted to another lane, leading to severe congestion.
 
 During the last hearing, the court had granted an interim status quo on any new construction in overcrowded locality of Dhantoli, till further orders. It had issued notices to respondents including State Urban Development Department secretary, collector, NMC commissioner, deputy director of Town Planning Department, and commissioner of police.
 
 The petitioner had prayed to make it mandatory for new buildings coming up in the area to have two parking slots for cars and two-wheelers for every flat. 
 
 It also demanded change in rules for existing plot owners with a view to ease several traffic congestion and parking problems in the area.
 
 Dhantoli Nagrik Mandal had filed a PIL earlier on behalf of harrowed residents, who were fed up with the number of hospitals cropping up in the already crowded area, which was leading to severe traffic and congestion problems.
 
 The petitioners contended that many hospitals are using designated parking zones to construct various facilities and expand their area. There are close to 115 hospitals and clinics in a radius of just 1.5km, which could be a record of sorts. A prayer has also been made to stop construction of any more hospitals, if not small clinics and dispensaries, in existing residential areas.
 
