PATNA: The government postponed the launch of free Wi-Fi service at 308 educational institutions under 29 universities in the state owing to the prevailing model code of conduct due to ensuing legislative council election in Bihar. One of the seven resolves of chief minister  , the free Wi-Fi facility was to be launched on Monday.

 Senior officials in information technology department said the Wi-Fi facility has been made ready at majority institutions. “We intend to launch the free Wi-Fi services in the state’s educational institutions in March after the model code of conduct is lifted. We have targeted to launch the services in at least 200 out of the 308 institutions on the first day and the remaining institutes would also be covered over the next few weeks,” said Vishal Anand, officer on special duty (OSD) at information technology department. 
 
 The free Wi-Fi facility at the educational institutions is being installed by Bihar State Electronic Development Corporation Limited (Beltron), an executive wing of IT department. The total budget for the project is Rs190 crore out of which Rs100 crore has been allocated in fiscal 2016-17. Senior IT department officials said a trial of the Wi-Fi services was already held in January at four colleges in and around Patna.
 
 The officials said the data policy of the Wi-Fi services to be provided to the educational institutions has been prepared by  , a multinational professional services provider.
 
 Though details on the data policy are expected to be shared by the CM at the launch programme, IT officials said there were certain restrictions on Wi-Fi usage, such as daily data limit and ban on pornography. While colleges would be provided a bandwidth of 10 MBPS, universities and bigger institutions like IIT-Patna would be provided 20 MBPS bandwidth.
 
 Beltron has already imposed restrictions on data usage in free Wi-Fi zone in Patna, which has a free Wi-Fi corridor covering 18km between NIT on   and   on Bailey Road, making it one of the longest Wi-Fi stretches in Asia.
 
 A year after the launch of the Wi-Fi network, Beltron blocked all kinds of websites offering pornographic videos and other adult material in March last year. The decision had come after a report that 55% of the data usage was related to video streaming and film downloads.
 
