RANCHI: Former Indian cricket captain   stole the show on the inaugural day of the global investment summit on Thursday.

 While heavyweights from the Indian corporate fraternity, Union cabinet ministers and ambassadors from partnering countries assembled on the dais during the opening ceremony, the Ranchi boy mesmerised the packed Tana Bhagat Indoor Stadium with his presence and composed demeanour. The auditorium broke into applause each time the cricket icon’s name was mentioned.
 
 A smartly dressed Dhoni, who is also the brand ambassador of the state, sat in the front row, next to   (JSPL) chairman  . Jindal, known to be a sports aficionado himself, clicked a selfie with the cricketer and tweeted it from the stage. 
 
 The former captain also found his fans among foreign and Indian business delegates. Harinder Sidhu, Indian-origin Australian High Commissioner to India, rained her praises on the ace cricketer. 
 
 “The relationship between India and Australia is incomplete without cricket,” Sidhu said in her address. “Since we have him (Dhoni) here, I cannot help but mention about the Test match to be played between India and Australia in Ranchi in March. Ranchi will host a Test match for the first time,” Sidhu said.
 
 Amid all the praises, the country’s the former captain spoke “not as a cricketer or a celebrity, but a boy who was born and brought up in Ranchi”. While speakers spoke of the state’s mineral reserves, Dhoni highlighted that Jharkhand was “number two (in India) in peas and potato production”. 
 
 “Jharkhand was pitted on paper to be the most promising state when it was formed,” the cricketer said, putting the onus on political instability for sloppy economic and social development. Borrowing his experiences from the cricket pitch, Dhoni said a “captain was as good as his team” before calling on everyone present at the auditorium to partner in the state’s development. “At times, people talk about security. I will say security is at par with any other state. My views and feelings are that of a boy born and brought up here and not that of a cricketer or a celebrity,” Dhoni remarked. The cricketer’s brief address received a warm response from the state government officials present at the venue. “He instantly struck a chord with the guests,” one officer said.
 
 
