GREATER NOIDA: A 20-year-old youth, accused of   and abduction, fled from   near Luksar jail, where he was being transported to in an autorick-shaw, after being produced in the district court in Surajpur on Sunday. The constable on duty has been suspended.

 Bittu Jatav was accused of abducting a 15-year-old girl from her house, and was arrested on Wednesday. Jatav was being transported to the jail with a constable and two guards in an auto when he managed to escape. 
 
 Police admitted that a PCR van was not available for transportation on Sunday. 
 
 The family of the girl expressed shock over the incident, as the accused managed to flee from police custody, and that too near the premises of a jail while been accompanied by policemen.
 
 An original resident of Aurangabad in Bulandshahr, Jatav lived in Sector Eta 1, Surajpur. He worked as an electrician and was staying in Surajpur with his family. According to the girl’s family, the youth abducted the girl, who lived in the neighbourhood, and sexually assaulted her on Wednesday. “We later got to know from the parents of the accused that he was taking him to the court for marriage but couldn’t go there. My son pursued them and got her back the same day, while Jatav was arrested,” the girl’s mother told TOI.
 
 An FIR was registered against Jatav under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping woman to compel marriage) of IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. 
 
 According to police, constable Amit Kumar and home guards Dinesh Rana and Jaiveer produced Jatav in Surajpur court on Sunday, and were taking him to Luksar jail in an auto around 6.30pm. He managed to jump off the auto at the intersection near Luksar jail, and fled.
 
 After his escape, sections 223 (escape from confinement) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of IPC were added to the FIR at Ecotech I police station. Luksar jail premises fall under Ecotech I police station.
 
 As the news invited widespread criticism, SSP Love Kumar suspended the constable for negligence, and has written to the commandant (home guards) to take action against the two guards accompanying him.
 
 
