NEW DELHI: While many argue that the rigid interpretation of the model code of conduct often comes in the way of usual governance- withholding and delaying administrative work- the   claims that it has dealt with all government references expeditiously. EC data says that it cleared more than half of the references made to it within 48 hours.
 
  Only 29 of the 179 proposals referred to it- since the model code of conduct came into effect in five election bound states- were held back for longer deliberations-for up to five days. 97 of the 179 references made to it by various central ministries between 4th January till 2nd March were cleared within 48 hours. 24 of these (13.4%) were cleared the same day, 34 proposals (18.99 %) cases were dealt within one day and 39 ( 21.78%) were cleared in 2 days .
  
  The EC has been in news as much for shooting off   notices to political parties as for writing missives to the   on not following due process.
  
  Communications have been shot off during this spell of model code of conduct to the   with the EC expressing its “unhappiness” over ministries violating established instructions on routing of Cabinet proposals. It also singled out the Ministries of Finance, Defence and   for taking key decisions without its prior vetting. Earlier, the EC entered into a confrontation with the   over its proposal to enhance cash withdrawal limit for candidates contesting the five state assembly polls.
  
  There were also instances where the EC said a strong no. Like to a proposal from Niti Aayog seeking a No Objection Certificate to hold Digi Dhan Melas across 100 cities.
  
  The Melas were to popularize usage of digital means for making financial transactions and also see a healthy participation of Union ministers. On 5th January, the Niti Aayog made the reference and on 6th January, the EC turned it down asking them to organise such melas in poll bound states only after elections were over.
  
  The Niti Aayog was earlier refused permission to release Rs 79.83 crore towards the Bundelkhand package in UP during the model code period besides another plan to hold gram sabha meetings on the Republic Day.
  
  The Rural development ministry plans to release instalments to poll bound Goa for Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana, Railways was refrained from announcing redevelopment of Kanpur Central and Allahnabad railway stations in UP and the Water Resources ministry’s aderstiemnts were five Ganga basin states which included Uttarakhand and UP also met the same fate- all were deferred for until after elections. The Labour ministry was kept from notifying reduction of administrative charges under EPF from 0.85% to 0.65%. 
