An 18-year-old   with the help of top Mumbai chest physician Dr   has won a hard-fought battle to be treated with a   currently under restricted trials in the country.

 The girl, following a   order on Friday, will now have access to drug Bedaquiline which under the Revised National   Control Programme is available only in select hospitals in Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Guwahati and Chennai.
 
 Since the girl, who is resistant to every other line of TB drugs, did not have a Delhi domicile, the authorised hospital in the national capital –   – had refused to put her on Bedaquiline dose, posing a grave danger to her life.
 
 The court order may open the doors for more extensive-drug-resistant TB patients to get access to Bedaquiline Delamanide irrespective of where they live in India.
 
 Dr Udwadia helped the girl at every stage in her quest get access to the treatment she so badly needed. From writing to Lala Ram Swarup TB Hospital to assisting her legal team in the high court, Dr Udwadia was with the patient throughout. Several letters with references to his wide research in extensive-drug-resistant TB were produced in the court.
 
 Dr Udwadia was the first doctor to publish a study in 2012 on 12 TB patients in Mumbai who had developed resistance to all TB drugs. The same year, Dr Udwadia began treating extensive-drug-resistant patients with Bedaquiline, which he would get access to with special permissions from the Union government.
 
 But in March 2016, the Union government restricted the use of Bedaquiline by private practitioners as it adopted the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme.
 
 The Patna girl was diagnosed with tuberculosis in 2012 and was treated with first-line of TB drugs in a private hospital. The drugs brought relief only in the initial stages and in 2013 she was diagnosed with multi-drug resistant TB. She was then taken to the Lala Ram Swarup TB Hospital in Delhi in May 2014, where she was diagnosed with extensive-drug-resistant TB.
 
 According to the girl’s father the Lala Ram Swarup TB Hospital did not tell them anything about Bedaquiline and for a year the girl, who weighed only 25 kg, was not on any medication. In October 2016, the girl was brought to Dr Udwadia in Mumbai. When Dr Udwadia tried to procure Bedaquilline for her, he was told that she should get in touch with the Delhi government. The hospital in Delhi, however, denied her Bedaquiline because she wasn’t a resident of the city.
 
 After repeated attempts by Dr Udwadia to get the Lala Ram Swarup TB Hospital to put the girl on a dose of Bedaquiline failed, her father decided to approach the Delhi High Court.
 
 “My daughter would still be struggling in the absence of any treatment if Dr Udwadia had not helped us. He was hand-holding us at every step. I and my entire family is indebted to him,” said the girl’s father. He said he has also written to the government for permission to continue his daughter’s treatment under Dr Udwadia.
 
 Dr Udwadia said he is happy that a young and deserving girl has managed to get a drug that might still save her life. “Thousands more in this country need access to it urgently,” he said. He said he currently has 30 patients on Bedaquiline and the success rate is 70 percent. “Many more patients under my care need this miracle drug, but access to it remains difficult. I have go through with lot of difficulties to get Bedaquilline,” he said.
 
