A playhouse filled with fun and frolic would be one of the first things that would come to the mind of an adult, looking back. Mostly, because that’s the kind of house they had once wanted to spend their entire lives in. 

 In that sense, 18-year-old Surya Kalya is living her dream. She, along with her parents – sculptor   and Rukmini – have just moved into their new home. The house, made of mud and bamboo and has emblazoned patterns, is part of the 2.25 acre village located between the Mannannur Railway station in Palakkad and the banks of Bharathapuzha. 
 Surya’s is the first home to be built on the village, which will soon have 14 other families that have bought land but are yet to start constructing their houses. 
 
 For the teenager, moving into the house on her parents’ 21st wedding anniversary in June and living on the banks of Bharathapuzha has been an experience unlike any other. “Being here is an emotion for us, as we have seen the river when it was dry and also when it was full. I have a strong bond with the river and often go to the banks and strike a conversation with it,” she says.
 
 The idea to live in a village away from the madding crowd was her dad’s. He has always believed in “art for society’s sake” and her parents have been meeting like-minded people for the past 10 years, Surya explains. 
 Surya was brought to the fold while she was in Class 8, when her parents asked if she wanted “to limit herself to the mundane academic syllabus”. “By then I was my own person and my only worry then was on losing out on friends,” she says. “That’s when my parents told me that there’s more truth to be unveiled in this world. I took the final call, though I had initial apprehensions about the school certificates and future. But there was no looking back after that.” 
 Surya’s learning though never stopped as her father and his friends have been continuously stirring her curiosity through various discussions and travels. 
 
 “We took a 50-day journey in 2014 from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram, which was titled Paschima Ghat Samvada Yathra. The days without electricity are still vivid, and overcoming hassles of hunger and thirst were moments of great revelation. That, in fact taught me a lot on how shallow our understandings of the world and political ideologies are,” says Surya, adding that these experiences also made her understand more about herself, her dreams and aspirations. 
 Surya has also been keeping herself busy with stitching, interior designing and painting. 
 
 “I have learnt to make bamboo baskets after interacting with various tribes. I have also learned the beautiful art of harvesting and planting the paddy stocks.”
 Keeping her company are her bunch of pets that include hens named Martha, Gerard and Victoria, goats Kittan and Kingini, cows Sundari and Karumbi, cats Devasena and Pankajakshan Pilla and a dog, Sankaran Thampi.
 Surya is also learning video editing skills, so that she will have a source of earning. However, she clarifies that is not her priority, “My aim is to earn a bit and travel till I turn 25. I also want to work in places across the country. After I do that, I want to keep myself busy with garden designing and  .”
 
 Following Surya’s lead, her 11-year-old sister Sreya has also taken a keen interest in reading books and cooking all by herself. And being independent is what their way of living implies, says her father Mohan Chavara, adding that they have cultivated almost all vegetables on the land but their attempt at paddy farming is yet to succeed. 
 
 Mohan also says that the houses in the village will be open to all. “We will also have a common guest house. The idea is to ensure that all 15 families will serve as hosts to a guest,” he says.
 
 On the future of the dream village, Surya is confident. “The village doesn’t need anyone to lead. It is a system that will continue on its own,” Surya concludes. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
