BENGALURU: It was a contest where alphabets mattered the most. With the theme – Every child is unique and so is every word, some of the country’s young spell wizards battled it out at the Classmate   Season 9 in Bengaluru. Sai Hemanth Ananthoiu of Presidency School, Bengaluru South, emerged the winner in the third level of the competition through an online test.

 However, a city winner does not automatically qualify for the national finals. Only 16 students with the top 16 scores across India qualify (purely on a score merit). The competition this year is powered by The Times of India, Times NIE is the education partner, Discovery Kids is the television partner and Victor Tango is the event partner for the property.
 
 The city is among 30 others to host this particular round of semi-finals. In the initial phase, an on-ground exercise was conducted for students across 75 schools in the city where they were given spelling tests. Top 15 scorers from each school then competed in the city finals round. The top performers from the city finals then competed in the semi final stage of the competition.
 
 The culmination of   will witness a gruelling competition between the top 16 scorers of India to win the title of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9’s national champion. The top 16 participants will compete in the national finals of the competition to be telecast on national television on the Discovery Channel, Discovery Kids and Discovery Tamil.
 
 Chief executive of ITC’s Education and Stationery Products Business Shailendra Tyagi said: “Classmate Spell Bee season 9 builds on the scale we achieved last year with the aim of reaching out to larger number of students across India, through a school contact programme coupled with a novel mobile app and a dedicated website to engage students. The brand promises to support a child’s dreams with an equally unique and world class set of stationery products like notebooks, writing, drawing, art and maths instruments.”
 
 Senior vice-president and   (India) Limited Sumit Aggarwal said: “Spell Bee has grown beyond being a just competition for schoolchildren and today is proud of celebrating its ninth season with its makers – the children themselves. It reinstates the belief that our students have the potential of competing on an international level and are second to none. Spell Bee endeavours to add value to a student’s development in its true sense.”
 
 Abhishek Anand, marketing manager, Classmate and the marketing team at ITC’s  , have customized this multi-layered engagement platform to ensure students’ outreach. 
 
 The national champion of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 will win a grand prize of Rs 2, 00,000 apart from the opportunity to witness the   with a parent in Washington D.C., US, in an all-expenses paid trip. The 4 semi-finalists will win Rs 50,000 each. The grand prize for the winner of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 and those for the semi- finalists have been sponsored by Classmate.
 
 
