HYDERABAD: Psychiatrist   , who was stabbed to death in Wichita, Kansas, United States, did not give up on treating his patient, Umar Rashid Dutt, who showed signs of violence. He did not imagine that the 21-year-old on whom he was investing time to cure him of his psychiatric problem would carry out a threat he reportedly issued earlier. Rashid Dutt was arrested soon after the incident.

 According to Achutha Reddy's family , Umar Rashid was a classmate of Achutha Reddy's son. Rashid's father was also known to Achutha Reddy . Rashid was reportedly into drugs and his father sought that he should be treated only by Achutha Reddy . It is learnt that on a couple of occasions, Rashid had shown his violent side when he had come for treatment.
 
 “Despite such behavior from him, Achutha Reddy continued to treat him," said Dr Sudershan Reddy, brother-in-law of Achutha Reddy .
 
 Achutha Reddy's aged parents went into a state of shock in Miryalaguda. Nagireddy Bhadra Reddy, 83, and his wife Parijatham, 72, are inconsolable. Achutha Reddy's brother Arvind Reddy, an engineer, is likely to fly to the US to attend the funeral rites.
 
 While patients, family and the locals held a candlelight vigil to mourn the death of Achutha Reddy at the   clinic in Wichita, the motive for the killing has not been ascertained by the police as yet.
 
 Sudershan Reddy told TOI that every time Rashid would come for consultation, he would be accompanied by his father. “However, on this occasion, it appears that he came alone. It is also clear that he came with a motive to kill," Sudershan Reddy said.
 
 Rashid also appears to have visited Hyderabad a couple of months ago but Sudershan Reddy is not sure about it. Rashid was also said to have had a drug problem but through the course of treat ment he reportedly used to turn violent and abuse Achutha Reddy . Rashid's father reportedly urged Achutha Reddy to continue treating his son as he trusted only he would be able to completely cure him.
 
 Brenda Trammel, a licensed clinical   at Holistic Psychiatric Services, said: “Reddy was an amazing, compassionate man that was kind and loving to anyone he met. He had a gift of knowing what each and every one of us needed and gave it freely. He would often tell me you have to have freedom to live life to the fullest and this is how he lived his life." Brenda said: “He expected the best from all of us and we gave it to him with the same abandon he gave to us.The senselessness of this action bears heavy on all of our souls but knowing him we have to believe in his principles and he would tell us this was his destiny, do not be tearful for me, I will always be there with you."
 
 
