KOLKATA: Bengali-American teenage writer  , who is America’s reigning  , owes a part of her   to Kolkata from where she migrated with her parents when she was just 6. 

 It was during her trip to the city in the summer of 2014 that Lagnajita penned poems for the first time. “Coming from Nashville in Tennessee, writing songs was my forte. It was during the last biennial family visit that I wrote three poems. After returning, I applied for the contest where I had to submit three poems. I sent the poems written in Kolkata because they were the only ones I had,” she recounted. In December 2015, Lagnajita was declared Nashville’s First Youth Poet Laureate. In June 2016, she became the Southeast Regional Youth Poet Laureate.
 
 She has since read original work at various prestigious forums and was recently invited to the White House to meet Michelle Obama. 
 
 Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, Lagnajita said it was the contrast between the abundance of family members and freedom in Kolkata and the solitude of staying indoors in an unsafe neighbourhood in the US that turned her to writing. “Some of my best childhood memories are here in this city,” she said.
 
 They find reflection in her first poem ‘Memories, a Fistful’ that goes like this “I remember street dogs that howled at midnight, making the young sleepless nights feel like a symphony, sitting in the dark shadows of the broken power lines, a loadshedding in an unsuspecting excuse for a candlelit dinner and family stories...”
 
 There are a fair sprinkling of Bengali words in the maiden effort. “...lonely evening rickshaw rides back from dance classs, repeatedly counting taal (beat) on my little finger and toes...” and “...I remember picnics and magic shows and wide-eyed curiosity in wonderous kone dekha aalo (sunsets)...”
 
 The three poems written in Kolkata, alongwith many others she wrote thereafter, have been published in a collection titled ‘This Is Our War’. 
 
 She is glad to have been gifted with parents who have given her freedom to be herself, unlike many Indian parents who force their children to go into one field or another without caring about creativity and what they want of their lives. “That is true for not only parents in India but also Indians who have migrated to the US,” she said.
 
 In the run-up to the National Youth Poet Laureate Finals this April, Lagnajita is doing a project on religious freedom where she is writing on a range of subjects, including tolerance of intolerance. 
 
 “The state of the world is not so great. The inspiration of many spoken word poems is racism that still exists in the US. I hope and believe that our words are impactful enough to make a change,” said Lagnajita, who loves to put pen to paper but also uses her cellphone to key in her thoughts when the notebook is not around.
 
 To aspiring poets, Lagnajita recommends uninhabited writing. “Write whatever you want. Editing can happen later. More than the things we say, one regrets the things left unsaid. So speak up and let the thoughts flow,” the performance poet advised.
 
 
