PUNE: Instead of cutting corners by employing guards from private security agencies, companies should hire men of the government-run   (MSSC) for the safety of their employees, additional director general of police (ADG) Jay Jeet Singh said on Monday.

 “The MSCC may charge more, but provides the best of guards. We take down details of the security guards, including their biometric features, and also conduct thorough background check. The corporation takes all the welfare measures of the security guards too,” Singh said while addressing about 550 officials of various IT companies during a meeting here on Monday.
 
 The meeting centred around the safety of working women in the corporate sector and was organized by the Pune police. It was attended by police commissioner   and joint police commissioner Sunil Ramanand too. 
 
 The meeting was organized against the backdrop of the murder of   Raju OP on the   in Hinjewadi. Rasila, who was working alone on the ninth floor of the company, was allegedly strangulated to death by a security guard employed by the company on January 29 this year.
 
 Singh said best training is provided to our men on the campuses of   (SRPF). “Yes, it is costly but at the same time very reliable. And if one wants to avert crimes on the premises of the private companies, then our services looks are not that expensive. The guards maintain foolproof security arrangements on the campuses of the private establishments,” he added.
 
 “The guards employed by the corporation have powers of a police constable and can arrest the suspects or detain the intruders. Thus, instead of hiring from fly-by-night security agencies, one should hire guards from the government agency,” he said.
 
 Singh said being a non-profit organization, the corporation gives major chunk of its income as salaries to its guards and also insures them. “Security is a culture. It is primary duty of an individual to be the part of this culture and state acts as an aide in the process,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Police commission Rashmi Shukla said she has received many e-mails from women working in different software companies stating that they were not aware if their companies had set up women redressal or complaint committees to look into the grievances of their women employees. “We as police are doing our bid to enhance security measures for the women, but companies must set up the committees and address the problems and grievances of their women employees. If these companies have formed committees, they should spread a word of awareness,” Shukla said.
 
 
 
 
 Joint police commissioner Sunil Ramanand said police started issuing licence to private security agencies in 2007 and since then, police have either suspended or cancelled licences of 60 such agencies in the city. Similarly, police have sent show-cause notices to 98 private agencies for not meeting the standards or flaunting the regulations prescribed in the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005.
 
 
