Lucknow: A man who delivered an “inspirational speech” for striking medical students at Vivekananda Polyclinic & Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday was not who he claimed to be. 

 The institute said the man, who spoke to students earlier this week, was not equipped to do so. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, the polyclinic’s secretary Swami Muktinathananda said that students ran a background check on Atul Sharma soon after his speech and found discrepancies in his credentials.
 
 The institute also said that while Sharma offered to assist the institute in various ways, it will not go ahead after the revelation. 
 
 Sharma had claimed that he had good terms with high-ranked government officials and ministers, something that was later found to be untrue. 
 
 “I did not know him personally. His mother was treated at the hospital and we met briefly. He volunteered to participate in solving the crisis by talking to striking students. I allowed him to do so without checking his background because I did not see any ill-meaning. Now that all this is known to us, there will be no further contact of any kind with him,” said Swami Muktinathananda.
 
 Postgraduate students at the institute were on strike, demanding a higher stipend. On May 16, Sharma was allegedly introduced to striking medical students as a person connected with the Prime Minister’s Officer and the National Board of Examinations. He gave them a lesson on how they should not strike and also asked them to contact him for any problem at the institute. 
 
 When students looked for him on lists of PMO and NBE, they did not find him there. What they found instead were reports from 2012 when Mumbai police had arrested Sharma for impersonating as a NASA scientist and duping women on matrimony sites. He was booked by Oshiwara police for cheating. 
 
 Sharma had also claimed to have worked with special forces formed by former US presidents George Bush and Barack Obama. He had morphed photos to support his claims. He was also not an alumnus of IIT Kharagpur as he had claimed. Besides, he had duped at least 10 men by offering them jobs in NASA.
 
 
