NAGPUR: Talent, ability to work hard and passion are the three most important things to succeed in film industry, said well-known actress   on Thursday. 

 In an interactive session on how to prepare for auditions in films, serials and advertisements, organized at Abhyankar Smarak Bhavan,   asked when one can take coaching classes for seeking admission to engineering and medical examinations, then why not for movies. 
 
 Recalling her days of struggle, Radhika said that a lot of patience is needed when you have to give so many auditions in which only a few get selected. 
 
 “Films are all about expressions on the big screen while the thrust is on how well you deliver dialogue . Advertisement is the toughest of them all as you have to convey your message to the people in a short span of time,” she said. 
 
 Right from understanding the perfect timing between the shots to working according to the needs of production people, an actor gets ample opportunities to learn. “Confidence is the demand of this industry. Many youngsters have a misconception that they only need good looks for acting in films. However, the fact is that you have to be perfect in every aspect,” she said. 
 
 The base of an actor for any role must be clear. An actor has to adapt to the situation while playing a role, may it be in films or TV serials. Sometimes one may have to shoot two episodes in a day which can be exhausting. But an actor must be prepared for long working hours, Radhika said.
 
 “People in Nagpur lack awareness though they have a lot of potential. Hundreds of auditions take place daily in cities like Mumbai and Pune. By this, we can guess the level of competition one has to face while entering the film industry,” said Radhika.
 
 Supriya Walde, who attended the session, is working in Marathi TV industry. “As I have nearly 12 year of experience of working in films and TV industry, when it comes to audition, one needs proper guidance. The aspirants should be fully prepared if they want to pursue a career in the film world,” she added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Radhika said, “I came here at my parents’ home and thought of organizing a session so that those interested can acquire some knowledge.”
 
