KOCHI: Two weeks ago, Kerala-headquartered   sent a team of its officers and security staff to stay at Elephant Court in Thekkady, a premium resort, where the rooms range from garden suite for Rs 24,000 to pool studio for Rs 40,000. However, it’s not an incentive the bank doled out to its employees. All of them were on duty with a mission to retain the property under the bank’s possession.

 The bank has taken possession of the resort in December-end last year, following a court order from the chief judicial magistrate court, Thodupuzha, as its promoters   and Resorts Ltd had defaulted nearly Rs 36 crore on the loans secured against Elephant Court and another resort, Peppervine.
 
 “We have posted 14 security men and five bank officers at the resort from December 28, 2016,” said a top official with the credit recovery wing of the bank. The property, spread over 2.75 acres , has up to 70 independent or semi-independent cottages and employed 100 people.
 
 “The Elephant Court has defaulted on repayment of Rs 26 crore while the Peppervine has defaulted on repayment of Rs 10 crore as of December-end. Though the court has ruled in our favour, we have been able to take possession of only the Elephant Court as the Vijaya Hospitality had produced an order from the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Ernakulam (DRT) asking to maintain the status quo as of 1.30pm on December 28th,” the official said.
 
 The DRT order had also directed the group to pay Rs 6 crore towards its loan account within a week’s time. In case of default, the bank can acquire the property under the Sarfaesi Act without awaiting any further directives of the tribunal. However, hospitality firm hasn’t paid the Rs 6 crore, said the bank’s representative. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Vijaya Hospitality has approached the high court asking to cancel the orders of the court and the DRT. The HC will take up their petition on Tuesday.
 
 The bank official said if the dues are not cleared, the resort will be auctioned. “We had taken a loan of Rs 44.35 from the Federal Bank on 14 loan accounts of our seven companies for working capital needs. Over the last ten years, we have paid back Rs 50 crore as interest alone. The loans were taken in 2006 and we have been making the repayments. The dispute came up because the bank did not give us an opportunity, as per the RBI guidelines on NPA, to restructure the loans, which are being charged at 18.5% interest rate. We are waiting for the high court’s decision on our petition challenging the bank’s action,” said the hospitality firm’s spokesperson. 
 
 Vijaya Hospitality is part of the  , founded by brothers C K Vijayan and Thampi Krishna, from Piravom. Apart from its hospitality interests, the group has six other firms in India and the Middle East, which include property development, food and beverages, manufacturing and trading of construction materials and finance. 
 
