Suman Lata, a member of the   (photo: Ajay Kumar Gautam/BCCL)This event on Saturday, which marked the end of a week-long training programme,  , was supposed to have   Commissioner   distributing pepper spray to students. However, we could find neither the commissioner nor the sprays! In the commissioner’s absence, Satish Golchha, Joint Commissioner of Police, South-Western Range, Delhi, was the chief guest for the event. Along with him, wrestler and two-time Olympic medallist  , and  , a member of the Asian Champion Kabaddi Team, also attended the event. An official, however, told us afterwards, “We will be sending the pepper spray to the schools directly.”

  
  Sushil Kumar took a selfie with the students and the trainers (photo: Ajay Kumar Gautam/BCCL)
 
  
  Suman Lata, a member of the Asian Champion Kabaddi Team (photo: Ajay Kumar Gautam/BCCL)
 
 Girls from five government schools in Najafgarh, who were trained during the week, demonstrated the self-defence techniques that they learnt. The students were trained by members of the   for Women and Children (SPUWC) at Najafgarh Stadium. Takshila Gupta, a teacher from the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Najafgarh Stadium, who was accompanying the students, told us, “Most of the students from our school participated in the training. After this, they will be more confident.”
 Sonal Singh, a Class XI student, said, “Hum toh kuch techniques class mein baith ke bhi practice karte rehte thay. Iss training ke baad lagta hai ki agar ab koi kuch badtameezi karega toh humein pata hai kaise bachna hai.”
 
  
  The trainers demonstrated a self-defence technique (photo: Ajay Kumar Gautam/BCCL)
 
  
  Students at the event (photo: Ajay Kumar Gautam/BCCL)
 
  
  
 Golchha, while addressing the students, said, “This training is a way to prepare students if someone tries to attack them. This programme has created awareness among students, and has trained them to be more confident.” Sushil Kumar added, “Yahan aake, yeh dekh ke, bahut achha laga ki ladkiyan self-defence seekh rahi hain. Aap sabko bahut aage badhna hai, desh ka naam roshan karna hai aur desh ke liye medal laane hain.”
 
