GURUGRAM: Protection watchers — the frontline staff in the forest department — are now working at half strength in the ecologically sensitive  , which is always under the threat of encroachment from land sharks.

 There are nearly 70 check posts of the forest department in the entire Aravali area. While earlier, there were four to five protection watchers at every check post, the number has now come down to two to three, officials told TOI. These protection watchers play an important role by keeping a check on environmental violations in the Aravalis.
 
 “Nearly 50% of protection watchers have been laid off in the past four weeks as we can’t spend more than Rs 50,000 on them on our own as per a government directive. So, we have released a tender, inviting companies to come forward for providing protection watchers. However, no company has approached the forest department yet. We are, however, trying our best to keep a check over the area with fewer protection watchers,” a senior official said.
 
 Activists cry foul as the Aravali hills have witnessed major encroachment by developers in the past 20 years.
 
 “Even though environmental violation in the Aravalis has been going on continuously, having adequate number of protection watchers in the area helps. Also local residents report any violation to these watchers. It is shocking that the department has suddenly reduced the number of protection watchers,” said Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist.
 
 “It is a matter of concern. Not just tree-cutting, but encroachment on forest areas and increased sightings of leopards make it apparent that the Aravalis need absolute protection,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, another green activist.
 
 Jitender Bhadana, a Faridabad-based environmentalist, claimed environmental violations have increased of late. “We have been recently witnessing major environmental violations. Despite repeated complaints, no action has been taken by the forest department or police. While violations used to take place earlier too, the number was less. Also the department at least used to respond to our complaints,” he said. In 2004, the Supreme Court banned all non-forest activities in the Aravalis, covered under Section 4&5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), without prior approval of the central government as per the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.
 
 
