INDORE: The much awaited work of constructing underground ducts for cables and other lines in the city has begun long the stretch from   to   via   naka.

 This would be first of a kind initiative in which roads would be made free from all overhead cables and electricity lines.
 
 Officials of IMC said that widening of the road is almost complete and the work of construction of underground ducts is in full swing.
 
 The ducts would each be of 3 by 3 feet. Storm water drainage lines and drinking water pipelines would also run through them. They would be constructed at an interval of 20 to 30 feet on both sides of the road.
 
 “This is a pilot project. We have started the project in the areas, where most civic supply lines are in a dilapidated condition. It is a new technology. If we succeed, the project would be extended to rest of the  ,” said mayor  .
 
 The IMC had received suggestions to create an underground passage for all cables and electric wires. However, officials said that they found the suggestions were not feasible for a city like Indore.
 
 “We were not setting up a new city. In renovating an old city like Indore, there are certain restrictions. So we thought of creating ducts at regular intervals,” an official of IMC said on the condition of anonymity. He said that the ducts would be like manholes that can be easily used for all sorts of maintenance.
 
 However, replicating the model across the Smart City will be a real challenge since the 742-acre area comprises Rajwada, Satha Bazaar, Bada Sarafa and Chhota Sarafa. These are very congested places.
 
 Overhead cables and electric lines are often blamed for defacing the city’s appearance. When the ducts become functional, the electric poles and transformers would be removed from roadsides. In the current system, the corporation has to dig up roads and identify the fault each time there’s a problem with an underground line. It also costs a huge amount of money. While preparing ducts is also a costly affair, officials claimed that in long run it would be cost effective.
 
