NEW DELHI: Delhi’s citizens are exasperated at the lack of enforcement that has led to  ,  ,   and other civic problems. This was obvious from their restless reactions at Dilli ki Soch, the annual meeting of residents welfare associations, organised by United Residents Joint Action (URJA) on Wednesday. But leaving the participants unimpressed, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari blamed each other for the mess, including the financial crisis in the municipal corporations.

 Sisodia put the onus of fighting urban banes on residents. For instance, he urged RWAs and schools to be vigilant about stagnant water to prevent dengue and chikungunya. “Micro-level monitoring of mosquito breeding is not possible even if all government departments were engaged in the task,” he said.
 
 The deputy CM then claimed that the air pollution could not be solved without the people themselves working on it. “When we speak about air pollution or littering we have to remember that there are people who drive 20-year-old cars and litter streets with ice-cream wrappers,” he said. “Changes in such habits have to be ingrained through the education system.” Car-pooling to check pollution, Sisodia said, required the same citizen engagement as the “successful” odd-even road rationing scheme.
 
 Talking about finances, Sisodia asserted that the AAP government spent more funds on the civic bodies in the last three years than the previous government did in 15 years. He urged BJP chief Tiwari to get the report of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission approved by the central government so the corporations could get a higher share of state taxes. Delhi has also demanded a bigger slice of central taxes.
 
 Tiwari retorted that Rs 9,000 crore out of Delhi government’s budget of Rs 48,000 crore was earmarked for the civic bodies. “The Congress government used to give Rs 1,500 crore to the corporations, while this government has given Rs 2,800 crore. You can’t use the funds meant for corporations under other heads,” Tiwari argued.
 
 The RWA participants did not seem to buy into this debate. “Politics is not doing anything for residents. The government hasn’t talked about inefficient administration,” said Asutosh Dikshit, CEO, URJA. “There are enough solutions that have been highlighted by expert groups. We will advise RWAs to build pressure now on departments directly and not through politicians.”
 
 The residents took on some experts too. For instance, when Bhure Lal, chairman of  , pointed out that the water table was dropping up to three metres every year in some parts of NCR and that between Okhla and Wazirabad all that the Yamuna carried was night soil, one participant cut him short with: “We know the problems, what are the solutions?” Bhure Lal responded, “Can you reduce your water consumption by 25%?”
 
 Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, said hard decisions were needed to curb pollution. As for the draft parking policy, which demarcates legal parking space and variable parking rates, she said this could prove unsuccessful if the citizens did not accept it.
 
 
