INDORE: In the sensational murder case of former RSS pracharak Sunil Joshi, a Dewas court on Wednesday acquitted eight persons, including Sadhvi Pragya Singh Bharti.

 Additional district and sessions judge Rajeev M Apte found that the prosecution was unable to prove beyond doubt that the accused were involved in conspiring and executing the murder of Sunil Joshi on December 29, 2007.
 
 Joshi alias Guruji, was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in Chuna Khadan area of Dewas, a few metres from his single-room hideout. Joshi had been evading arrest for his alleged role in the murder of   leader Pyarsingh Ninama in Manpur.
 
 Dewas Industrial Area police registered a case against five persons – Pragya Bharti, Ramcharan Patel, Vasudev Parmar, Anandraj Kataria and Harshad Solanki. The matter was moved before a Dewas court.
 
 In 2011, the   ( ), which was probing the role of Pragya and others in Malegaon and Samjhauta bomb blasts, had taken over the case in the wake of allegations that it was linked to the larger saffron terror conspiracy.
 
 The NIA produced a charge sheet against eight persons in 2014. The NIA also booked Lokesh Sharma, Jitendra Sharma and Rajendra Choudhary for Joshi’s murder.
 
 However, the NIA special court in Bhopal found that the case was of ‘plain murder’ and did not fall under the NIA schedule of offences. The case was again shifted back to Dewas.
 
 In September 2014, a fresh charge sheet was produced before the Dewas court against the accused for murder (302 of IPC), destroying evidence (201 of IPC) and possessing and using fire arms (25 and 27 of Arms Act).
 
 Raghuveer Yardi, the defence lawyer, told reporters that the court found that the prosecution could not establish the chain of events and prove beyond doubt that the accused were involved in conspiring or executing the crime.
 
 “The accused were acquitted on all counts,” he said.
 
 The court had recorded statements of 35 witnesses, including that of NIA officers and accused turned approver Dilip Jagtap, before pronouncing the verdict.
 
 Four of the accused were present in the court when the verdict was being pronounced, he said adding the others, including Pragya, were in judicial custody.
 
 Pragya, who is undergoing treatment in a Bhopal hospital, did not travel to Dewas citing health reasons.
 
 
