BENGALURU: The government's plan to regulate the fee structure of private educational institutions which follow the   and ICSE syllabi has not gone down well with many. The proposal was passed by the state cabinet on March 24. Primary and secondary education minister   told   that he's well aware of the backlash from educational institutes and the government is ready to face the consequences. Excerpts.

 The move to implement the fee structure and safety regulations in CBSE and ICSE schools has ruffled feathers...
 
 Till date, there has been no inclusion of a clause for the education department to ensure safety of students in private schools. While laws existed, there were none under the   Education Act.Hence, under section 5 (a), we are introducing safety norms for all schools in the state. This apart, we have also looked into the aspect of fee regulation, considering the exorbitant fee structure of some CBSE and ICSE schools. While an average institution charges about Rs 11,000 to Rs 12,000 per year, CBSE and ICSE schools charge no less than Rs 11,000 to Rs 13,000 per month.
 
 Have you considered the legal repercussions and hurdles?
 
 We have, and we are ready to face the consequences. In fact, when the parents' association had approached the high court for relief from the 'arbitrary fee' structure of CBSE and ICSE schools, the government had filed an affidavit stating it would regulate the fee structure. The courts have come to our rescue.
 
 How does the amendment work?
 
 We have calculated the fee structure and a formula has been provided to schools, wherein slabs have been fixed on fee collection, based on primarily the teachers' salary and administrative costs incurred by schools. We have also factored in the investments, repayment of loans and depreciation value of schools.
 
 What are these slabs?
 
 We have fixed 100% remuneration from students in schools in BBMP limits, 70% of the costs in schools in municipalities, 50% from students of schools located in city and town municipalities and 30% for schools at panchayat level.
 
