KOLKATA: Will prices of cinema tickets change in   once the nation opts for the ‘one tax, one nation’ concept? The   has opted for the highest slab of 28% on cinema tickets. That has raised doubts over its impact on the pricing of Bengali movie tickets.

 Currently, the entertainment tax is 30% for Hindi/English films releasing in Bengal. With GST, it will come down to 28%. So, for Hindi/English cinema, it is actually a 2% reduction of entertainment tax. But for Bengali films, the current entertainment tax rate is just 2%. The 28% GST will mean an excess of 26% tax for Bengali films. “We are hoping our state has the capacity to keep the regional entertainment tax in the negative list,” said a multiplex source.
 
 Director Suman Ghosh, who is professor in economics at Florida Atlantic University, refers to a concept called ‘price elasticity of demand’ in economics to explain the impact of GST on the regional market. “It is basically the proportionate change in demand for a certain price increase. The price elasticity of demand is very high for regional films. It means that a certain price increase will have a proportionately more decrease in demand for regional film vis-a-vis Hindi or English films. So it is definitely more damning for the Bengali film industry,” Ghosh said.
 
 The director apprehends a grim scenario ahead for  . “A lot has been talked about and discussed about the precarious business scenario of Bengali films. Unfortunately, this new tax with its concomitant effect on ticket price increase will be another handicap for the industry. I hope that the mandarins at the helm of business affairs for Bengali films and the government work in tandem to see how the negative impact can be mitigated. This actually can be quite devastating for our industry,” he said. 
 
 That’s precisely why many have already pressed the panic button. Producer Ashok Dhanuka describes this as “the last nail in Tollywood’s coffin”. “This will have a terrible impact on the industry,” he said.
 
 One way of recovering this extra tax burden is to increase the ticket prices of Bengali movies. However, producer Mahendra Soni reminds that footfalls will dip if ticket prices increase. “When producers’ share fall, it will result in them cutting on budgets of subsequent films. Till now, multiplexes used to enjoy a subsidy. This is a state subject. But with GST, we aren’t clear if it will remain this way,” Soni said.
 
 A week back, Minar cinema re-opened. Suranjan Paul, the owner of Minar, Bijoli and Chhabighar, believes that single screens will now be forced to run more Hindi/English movies. “Since the entertainment tax for Bengali cinema will increase, it will not be profitable for us to bank on regional content. If the film is very good, we will increase the ticket prices. Otherwise, we will have to absorb the losses. A lesser net income per ticket will result in cutting down on the production cost,” Paul said.
 
 Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya, has variable rental charges. He charges Rs 2.35 lakh for seven days of screening at a 4.30 pm or 7 pm show. For a 2.30 pm and 3.20 pm show, the weekly charge is Rs 2.20 lakh. For a noon or night show, the weekly charge is Rs 1.25 lakh. “For a 4.30 pm or 7 pm show, a producer can earn approximately Rs 4.5 lakh weekly from seven houseful shows. I get a rental of Rs 2.35 lakh for this period. With GST, I’ll continue to get Rs 2.35 lakh. But the distributor will get approximately Rs 4 lakh,” Dutta said. For states like   (which currently has 50% entertainment tax for Hindi/English movies), Uttar Pradesh (which currently has 30% to 40% entertainment tax for Hindi/English movies), 28% GST will be beneficial since it will effectively bring down the taxes. “But for Bengal, the rise is 14 times the existing tax scheme of 2%. This will be disastrous for the regional film industry,” Dutta said.
 
 Navin Chokhani, the owner of Navina, doesn’t want to increase the ticket prices. “From the box-office revenue, we will have to give this additional 26% to the government. This will impact producer/distributor and some exhibitors also. In urban centres, the advantage that producers get under the existing tax scheme for Bengali cinema will no longer be there,” Chokhani said. To explain further, he said in case of Bengali movies, the revenue now is more for urban centres because the entertainment tax is only 2% in comparison to the 30% levied for Hindi/English cinema. “This extra benefit that is coming because of the tax difference is going to the producers. They will now be hit in urban centres.”
 
 The worst hit will be the rural market. Said an exhibitor on conditions of anonymity, “In rural theatres, exhibitors are more inclined now to screen Hindi than Bengali movies. This is because they often don’t pay the correct entertainment tax even after it’s collected from cine-goers. For Hindi cinema, 30% tax is being collected. For Bengali cinema, the tax is 2%. It is easier to manipulate the 30% tax and not pay the entire amount. Vigilance is very poor there and less collection is shown. With GST, the same manipulation can be done for Bengali cinema too. Corruption is likely to increase,” he said.
 
 However, there is a silver lining too. “No one will make films just for the heck of it. A lot of thought will go into investing in good cinema,” Paul said.
 
