How often do you see all athletes participating from a city win medals at an international event? These six young lads   (23),   (21),   (22),   (26),   (22),   (22) from Coimbatore have made the country proud by bagging gold, silver and bronze medals in the recently concluded seven
  Commonwealth Championships at Potchefstroom, South Africa. Coimbatore Times caught up with the medal winners and their coach   for a chat. 

 An excited Nagarajan begins, “A total of 66 players from India took part in the tournament, out of which 58 of them won medals. The icing on the cake is that all nine players from Tamil Nadu won medals.”
 
 Talking about his experience in South Africa, Bheeman, who won silver in the 66kg junior category, says, “This was my first experience at an international tournament. The competition was fierce as there were athletes from over 25 countries. I never thought of winning a medal.” Bharath, the youngest of the lot, who won a gold medal in the 74kg junior category, is pursuing his graduation at Kongunadu Arts and Science College. He says, “The weather conditions were a tad challenging out there. The competition took place in an air-conditioned hall and we weren’t sweating. That was difficult. However, we didn’t find much of a difference with the equipment. The competition was tough and since we had practiced well, we could fare well.”
 
 Bheeman was introduced to   by his father and since then there has been no looking back. “I have been practising the sport for five years and have been winning medals at state and national levels.” Vignesh Kumar, gold medalist in the 59kg senior category, on the other hand, got into the sport in 2011. “My father’s friend was the coach of the Southern Railways team. He encouraged me to take up the sport so that I get employment. Now, I work in the South East Central Railways (SECR), Bilaspur. I was eligible for the job only after winning a medal at the Senior Nationals. Similarly, to get into the commonwealth games, I had to attend a trial and clear the dope test.” 
 
 Bharath’s tryst with powerlifting began soon after he finished school. “I started working out in a gym during my vacation and I was asked to try my hand at power lifting. Once, people started appreciating me, I moved to a professional gym in Udayampalayam. My game improved multiple-fold after that. I trained for at least 6 hours a day and had a high protein diet. I have to make sure I am within my weight category.”
 
  For M Venkatesh Prabhu, who won a gold medal in the 93kg junior category, powerlifting happened by accident. “I am a fitness buff and I joined the gym in 2013. Few people, who were into power lifting, challenged me to bench press and I did it for fun. I performed well and they were impressed. That’s when the idea of power lifting came to me. “
 
 But the road to powerlifting was filled with challenges, “After passing the trials, I had to look for sponsors. It was difficult to pay the entrance fee and get visa. That’s when my uncle came forward to help. We somehow managed to collect the required amount and participated in the tournament. It was a great feeling to win a gold medal for the country. Nagarajan Sir accompanied us on the tour and kept encouraging us. I want to play the sport as much as I can, as it has given me recognition.”
 
 So, how did the youngsters prepare for the tournament? S Nagarajan, Team India coach and the secretary of Tamil Nadu Powerlifting Association, says, “We didn’t undergo any special training for the tournament. The routine was followed. But, our boys were well prepared and were aware of the conditions. We checked our hotel menu and weather conditions. We carried rice and electric cooker with us. They offered only pork for breakfast and our athletes were not used to it. They also learned the difference between the equipment used at the tournament and the ones they use here. I am extremely proud of them today.” 
 
 Talking about the scope for powerlifting in India, he says, “Indian Powerlifting Federation has organized 29 International Championships from 1979. The sport is growing gradually in the country. We are doing well at the commonwealth level, but when it comes to Asian Championships, we are lagging behind. Countries like Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Iran, Mongolia and Russia are stronger than us. The reason behind that is because our athletes are getting into the sport a little late. They should start as early as 11.”
 
 Vignesh, however, feels that the sport isn’t popular because it is not an Olympic game. “The sport is only popular among Railway and Postal departments. The game will get better exposure when it gets into the  .” Bheeman hopes that with their victory, powerlifting gets a shot in the arm. “Most of them are not aware of the sport and I hope our achievement would make them sit up and take notice.”
 
 Nagarajan believes that the state government should offer job opportunities for sportspersons, who win medals. “All players found sponsors for themselves. The state government should at least provide them employment, when they win medals. There is no back up career option for an athlete if he or she gets injured. But, if he has a job, he will be confident and secure. We have to understand that Olympics is not a bench mark for a sport. And, just because a sport is not part of Olympics, it shouldn’t be isolated.”
 
 
