PALAKKAD: The BJP has termed the ongoing probe by state police into the   of a film actor a farce and sought an inquiry by the CBI or one under the direct supervision of the court.
The state president BJP Kummanam Rajasekharan while addressing reporters at the BJP district committee office in Palakkad on Monday said the Kerala police would not be able to probe the case properly because they seemed to have got instructions from chief minister   not to investigate the conspiracy behind this incident that shocked the state. “So only an investigation by an agency other than Kerala police could bring out the facts ,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP national executive member V Muraleedharan has demanded an inquiry by either a central government agency or one under the direct supervision of the court. “People of Kerala have lost their trust in chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his police, which is probing the case. Pulsar Suni, the chief accused, is only a tip of the iceberg, and there's a planned move by the chief minister and the police to scuttle the investigation,“ the BJP leader told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday raising the demand for a more `credible' inquiry .
 
 Reiterating that both the chief minister and the police were trying to wrap up the case by confining it to key accused Suni, Muraleedharan said the police were acting to the script given by the chief minister.“We cannot blame the general public if they have started do ubting that Pinarayi Vijayan knows who the real culprits behind the crime are,“ he said.
 
 The accused had reportedly told the actor that he was on a `quotation' given by a woman, and she was threatened that she would be taken to a flat in Thammanam if she did not cooperate. Have the police investigated into this? Instead, police have prevented the victim from holding a press conference, which suggests that they are afraid of truth being revealed,“ the BJP leader said.
 
 In a separate press conference at Palakkad on Sunday the   member   has demanded a thorough probe into the conspiracy behind the kidnapping and sexual assault of the actor.
 
