NAGPUR: It has been 11 long years since Kishan  , a Kamptee-based trader, began the fight to get justice for his daughter Mitali. She lost both her legs and right hand after she came into contact with a high tension (HT) wire in October 2006.

 However, despite suffering 95% disability, her family has received only Rs 4.19 lakh compensation, which is woefully inadequate for her needs. The family claims that MSEDCL was completely at fault in this case since it laid a HT line in a residential locality.
 
 Sadhwani, who had to shut his hardware shop to take care of his daughter, had filed a petition in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for decent compensation, but is yet to get justice.
 
 The HC had, in May 2008, awarded Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation but the case has been on the back-burner since then. Now, with the HC treating TOI reports on the electrocution of twins Priyansh and   as suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), Sadhwani hopes that his daughter will get her due.
 
 “The cost of advanced artificial limbs is very high and I can’t afford them. If Mitali can use them, there will be major enhancement in her quality of life. In spite of her handicap, she has complete bachelors of electrical engineering with 75% in her final semester. Now, she should get a government job,” Sadhwani told TOI.
 
 Mitali uses an artificial right hand that cost Rs50,000. It has to be replaced every two to three years. The limb has only cosmetic value. A functional artificial right hand costs Rs 25 lakh, which is out of Sadhwani’s affordability.
 
 “MSEDCL has ruined her life and it should try to make it as comfortable as possible. The company officials are the sole reason for our tragedy. The residents had submitted several objections to installation of the HT line at Gudoli. The houses had been constructed long before the line was installed. However, the discom officials went ahead. The accident took place just three months after the line went live,” he said.
 
 TOI visited the accident spot on Wednesday and found that the wire was just a foot away from the balcony where Mitali was playing on the fateful day.
 
 MSEDCL woke up after the accident and replaced the overhead line with an underground one. However, Sadhwani got an order from the HC to prevent MSEDCL from taking away the dead overhead line.
 
 Sadhwani has suffered due to police apathy too. He had filed a criminal complaint against three MSEDCL officials. “Kamptee JMFC was convinced of their guilt but they were let off because police had not taken permission from MSEDCL higher ups before arresting the three. Now, the case is in Nagpur district and sessions court,” he said.
 
 The Kamptee resident also criticised incumbent MLA Chandrashekhar Bawankule. “He had promised to provide a government job to Mitali after she passed engineering. Now, he is the energy minister but has done nothing,” he said.
 
