PUNE: The   has directed a review of   (FSI) in mega cities and urban agglomerations. 

 The idea is to ensure better utilization of scarce urban land resources in the context of rapid urbanization in cities like Pune. 
 
 The government’s move comes against the backdrop of NITI Aayog’s recommendation for relaxation of FSI norms in urban areas to boost urban development. 
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has supported the move saying that its development control rules have already paved the way for more FSI in the inner city areas facing land shortage.
 
 The ministry’s statement says that officials will take up a time-bound review of these norms in all 53 cities with a population of one million and above. 
 
 The review will be in consultation with the states and cities to cover an assessment of the existing norms and to what extent it could be enhanced. 
 
 Housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri has directed identification of short- and long-term interventions to be taken up for improving infrastructure pertaining to water supply and sewerage systems, road spaces etc.
 
 City engineer Prashant Waghmare said a higher FSI will change the ground reality of the congested old city area comprising 17 peths and surrounding areas which occupy over 147.85 sq km. 
 
 “The Development Control Rules (DCR) for Pune city were recently approved by the state government. Small flats will come up in the city and more FSI will help solve the city’s housing problem,” he said.
 
 Pune consists of a maximum number of slums as housing typology followed by bungalows and wadas. With the new DCR and the government’s efforts to increase FSI, the percentage of bungalows and wadas will decrease as these units will get redeveloped into apartment units, civic officials said.
 
 Considering the population growth in the next decade, the net area required for housing in old Pune is 3,515.4 ha. With the area required for amenities, gross residential area required to be reserved to cater to the future housing demand is 4,745.79 ha as per the development plan for the old city. 
 
 This area will reduce substantially with the implementation of new development policies introduced in the DCR. These include additional FSI for development of affordable housing, higher FSI for government and civic employees housing and more FSI for the economically weaker section and low-income group housing.
 
 “There is need for more FSI in the market. CREDAI wants the government to allow paid FSI in all cities irrespective of their grade. Paid FSI will increase the state and the PMC’s revenue,” Shantilal Kataria, president CREDAI Maharashtra, said. However, CREDAI is unsure if prices of realty will come down because of additional FSI in the market. 
 
 Many urban planning experts, including Shirish Patel, have opposed higher FSIs in cities saying that population density should be taken into consideration because it depends on the income levels of families that will utilize them. Patel had sited four FSI is possible in Malabar Hill area but not in Dharavi in Mumbai. 
 
