PUNE: The condition of the two women, who underwent   surgeries at a hospital here last week, is stable, doctors said on Sunday. 

 Seventy-two hours after undergoing the country’s first womb transplant on May 18, the 21-year-old Solapur woman’s graft (transplanted uterus) has normal blood flow. “She has started eating on her own. The Doppler study revealed normal   in the entire uterus,” said oncosurgeon Shailesh Puntambekar, who carried out the transplant surgery on her along with 11 surgeons. 
 
 “The internal inspection done with the help of colposcopy also shows a normal uterus. All her blood parameters are within the normal range,” he added. 
 
 Doctors at the   carry out Doppler study, blood investigations and vaginal culture (to rule out infection) every day to monitor the patients’ health. “All her parameters are normal. She will remain in the intensive care unit (ICU) for another four days before being shifted out for specialised care for two weeks,” Puntambekar said. 
 
 The woman started eating on her own from Sunday. “She is on liquid diet and had juice and buttermilk. Her husband also interacted with her through video chat, as relatives are not allowed inside the ICU to avoid infection,” he said.
 
 Puntambekar said the 24-year-old beautician from Vadodara, who underwent a womb transplant on May 19, also has normal blood flow in the uterus. 
 
 “Forty-eight-hours have passed since the surgery and the transplanted uterus is showing normal blood flow. Except the urine catheter, all other tubes attached to her have been removed. The Doppler study on Saturday showed normal blood flow in the uterus,” he added. 
 
 There are two types of rejection in case of an organ transplant surgery. The acute rejection takes place within 24 hours of surgery and the other type, called late rejection, can happen between 7 and 15 days. “Both the women have crossed the first stage and we hope that they will sail through the total 15 days hospitalisation period as well. They will be discharged then. However, both of them will be monitored consistently till conception,” Puntambekar said.
 
 Intensivists Bhushan Kinolkar and Abhay Mane are monitoring the patients round-the-clock along with other resident doctors and nurses. 
 
 The May 18 surgery has opened a new gateway to motherhood for womenwith no uterus, or those who have uteruses that do not function. The only options hitherto for such women were surrogacy or adoption. 
 
