NAGPUR: A recent boom in the number of city events, which call for professional emcees, seem to have given anchoring a shot in the arm. It was once considered ‘can-speak-well, let-me-emcee’ kind of job. Today it is hard to ignore its increasing importance among youngsters who consider it as big opportunity. Most youngsters take to stage for passion, glamour or money.

 Now in the field for the past two and a half years, Amar Jajoo divides anchors into three types — freshers, half-established and well-known compères, preferably in the rank of radio jockeys. “The pay can be less at the start, but once you build your profile, sky is the limit. The pay in cities like Bombay and Delhi is much higher, but the competition also rises to 500%,” says Jajoo. 
 
 He admits that Nagpur has become more acceptable to the idea of having professional anchors and there is a lot of scope. “However, I’ve seen youngsters get into the field for its financial advantages than passion, and they may not be able to sustain in the long run,” said Jajoo.
 
 Apart from anchoring, ‘RJ Raj’ also writes concepts and scripts for different shows and is a ‘sangeet specialist’. In the field for four years now, he warns budding emcees about certain conceptions in choosing the field. 
 
 “Anchoring is not just going on stage and speaking. Entertainment is the biggest challenge. The earnings are based on season. The end of the year is a good time since it’s the marriage season and corporate companies celebrate their annual get-togethers,” he says. 
 
 Raj advices youngsters to look for a job with proper pay during daytime since most shows are conducted in the evening.
 
 Nagpurians are familiar with Shweta Shelgaonkar, a popular name in the industry. An employee of BSNL, Shelgaonkar anchors during free time. She doesn’t rule out the possibility for youngsters wanting to opt for it as a serious  . 
 
 “If you are passionate about talking on stage, then the risk is worth taking. The   isn’t only about talking. You’ve got to be meaningful, versatile and connect with the audience,” she says, adding that many youngsters approach her for guidance.
 
 A news anchor in a local TV channel, Minakshi Hedaoo has no doubt that youngsters nowadays are attracted to anchoring on screen and otherwise. “Anchoring in media is also seeing a lot of fresh faces who want to explore and learn,” she says.
 
 Puja Singh, 26, anchors corporate parties and weddings. Warning that anchoring is not all about glamour, it involves managing an entire programme and putting in a lot of hard work, she says, “If you want to pursue this as a career, you have got to be focused. People nowadays understand the need and value for professional emcees. Your work gets you the pay you deserve.”
 
 
