KOLKATA: The fire at the   hotel has laid bare a major loophole in the way the fire services department functions. Even though the department had swung into action and lodged an FIR against the key functionaries of the hotel citing negligence on their part, a section of officials later found that no fire inspection had been carried out at the hotel for the last five years. 

 In its FIR against the hotel authorities, the fire services department stated that the fire safety equipment installed in the hotel did not work, leading to the death of two boarders. But sources in the department and the   police station conceded that the last time a fire brigade inspector had stepped into the hotel to check Golden Parkk’s fire safety equipment was back in 2012. 
 
 “The hotel management top brass alone cannot be held responsible. Even if they have not upgraded the fire safety equipment or kept them functional, what was the inspector from our department doing? The inspector is responsible for checking the fire safety norms inside the hotel. If he skips his inspection, he should take equal responsibility,” a fire services official said.
 
 The Shakespeare Sarani police on Saturday arrested hotel employee   who was in charge of the pantry on the night of the fire. “The logic behind arresting him is simple. He had failed to turn off the oven, which got overheated and triggered the fire,” explained an officer. Like the two other accused in this case — hotel owner   and manager Gautam Majumdar — Chitrakar was sent to judicial custody till April 4.
 
 The arrests, cops said, were logical. “We arrested Gujral because he has to take overall responsibility. If a third party security agency does not do its job well, it is a breach of trust between Gujral and that firm. That obviously cannot be his defence when basic fire safety equipment like sprinklers and smoke alarms failed to activate. Similarly, Majumdar was in charge of in-room services. It was his duty to ensure that these equipment were in working condition. We also found enough negligence during the evacuation process at night. We will explain his role in detail once we file the chargesheet. Chitrakar was arrested because he failed to turn off the oven even when all orders had been served for the night,” explained an officer claiming they will know about the exact cause of fire once the FSL report is received. “We waited a day before arresting Chitrakar so we could get an initial opinion from the forensic experts,” added a source.
 
 Sources claimed that the investigators have an agenda on Sunday. “We need to fix responsibility on the person who was to carry out the drills at the hotel. We have found that compulsory safety drills were never carried out in the past three years. In addition, we will ascertain if the safety officer of the hotel had played his role,” said an officer. Cops said they will also fix the role of Magma Security, which reportedly was entrusted with the safety and security audit of the hotel. 
 
 Legal experts, though, have questioned the logic behind arresting Gujral and Majumdar."
 
