NEW DELHI:   termed President Ram Nath Kovind’s speech “most unfortunate” for leaving out any mention of  , and referring to Deen Dayal Upadhyay in the same breath as Mahatma Gandhi.

 Congress sought to remind him that “he was the President of the entire country and no more representing a political party”. The party turned out in full strength at the President’s swearing-in, but the leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and his deputy, Anand Sharma, delivered a stinging rebuke to the President’s speech.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Azad said, “We congratulate the President. But it was most unfortunate that while his speech mentioned Sardar Patel and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, who were ministers in the Nehru government, he did not mention Nehru. He was not just one of the PMs but the first PM of free India who was known around the world for his vision.”
 
 He said the speech also struck a jarring note because it named Upadhyay and Mahatma Gandhi in the same breath. “It is unfortunate that he equated Upadhyay with the ‘father of the nation’. Gandhi... was inspiration for so many leaders, as a result of which so many countries got independence. Upadhyay was the leader of a non-existent party then,” Azad said.
 
 According to him, the “speech looked more partisan than a presidential address”. Azad said the President’s remarks were “unexpected” because being part of his first speech, they also “reflected his mind”.
 
 “All through his campaign, Kovind said he did not belong to any political party. But today, it was felt otherwise across the country. We got telephone calls not just from Congressmen but from ordinary citizens who found it odd,” Azad said.
 
 Congress sources said there was a unanimous feeling of disapproval among MPs, a factor in the party’s decision to issue a strong note of dissent. Two members said the President spoke more on specific issues of governance and development than big ideas on society. The “Jai Shri Ram” cries from BJP members added to the partisan feeling, a Congress MP said.
 
 
