Outpatient services at all civic medical colleges --Sion, KEM and BYL Nair--have come to a grinding halt, even as hundreds of surgeries continue to be cancelled at all public hospitals. The cumulative count of surgeries that were postponed mounted to nearly 1,000 as the resident doctors' strike entered its third day on Wednesday.

 Parel's KEM hospital could carry out only 76 major surgeries on Wednesday , which is less than 50% of its normal volume. Outpatient services were completely shut, barring a few emergency departments.Emergency services treated close to 400 patients, while the number of new admissions was little more than 100.
 
 The outpatient department at Sion Hospital has been almost non-functional for four days, forcing patients to go back without treatment. More than 150 patients have been discharged in the last three days, though the hospital did not provide official figures. The worstaffected seemed to be Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central, where the outpatient department is completely deserted.
 
 Chitra Thorat, who is eight months pregnant, travelled all the way from Nalasopara to KEM Hospital early in the morning, only to find a big lock on the outpatient department's gate. She has been experiencing palpitations for the last few days. “I am worried if it will affect my baby . The gynaecologist referred me to the cardiologist, but there was no one in the department,“ said Thorat. She was not only dreading her journey back home, but also worried about consulting a new doctor.
 
 Gwalior resident Esmilan Khan, a kidney patient, walked into JJ Hospital with excruciating pain in her stomach and eating difficulties. Her son Sabir said the doctors just refused to admit her. “We were told there would be nobody to take care of her. Since we are not in-patients, we could not get a voucher for the hospital's night stay facility.“
 
 The duo was forced to spend the night in the hospital's garden. Nanded resident Jayparkash Labshetwar, a relative of a patient with a heart problem, has been in Sion's waiting area since Monday . He managed to receive brief medical assistance only on Tuesday .“She was supposed to be operated on after she had a paralyt ic attack two weeks ago. Other patients have suggested that we move to a different hospital.“
 
 
 
