Check your online order carefully when it arrives, as it could turn out to be a fake, as this businessman in the hospitality sector found out when he received a pair of sunglasses that he had ordered on Amazon.

 
 The ‘Ray-Ban’ that was ordered online was returned
 
  had liked a  , and when he couldn’t get it in the shops he had ordered it from the  . When it arrived he found that it was  , similar to the one sold at  
 
 Mathew knew his brand, and rejected the article and was saved from the embarrassment of telling others that he was wearing a Ray-Ban, only to have someone point out that it was a fake. It all started when Mathew, a general manager working in hospitality industry, received his Ray-Ban Aviator that he had ordered online.
 
 He accepted it and kept it at his office, but when he took it out later to wear, he found that the frame was different and the glass was darker than what he had seen in the online catalogue.
 
 “I have been wearing Ray-Bans from almost 25 years. As I have purchased aviators of many shades all these years, I can tell easily when a shade is original or duplicate. I was really shocked to see the shade. The shape, colour of the aviator told me it was a fake, the one which vendors stand and sell at traffic signals. I immediately called the person who delivered it and also complained online with Amazon. They apologised about the mistake and refunded the money,” Mathew told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 He said that e-commerce giants like Amazon should be careful when dealing with a situation like this.
 
 “I know about the brand and I could say it was a fake. What if a person can’t tell it’s a fake and goes on wearing it thinking it’s the real thing. In our industry we meet a lot of high-profile people, and if they point out that the aviators I’m wearing is fake, think of the embarrassment it would cause,” Mathew added.
 
 Amazon has promised an internal investigation into the matter, and a complaint with the police has been lodged.
 
  
  
 
 
