NAGPUR: The ongoing   has affected indoor patients the most at   and Hospital ( ), with OPD and casualty affected marginally. Compared to usual days, less than 50% patients were admitted to the hospital because of lack of doctors. While against the average figure of 43 operations per day (both major and minor), only eight operations were performed on the strike days.

 College authorities say various major and minor surgeries are on hold, as there is no one for post-operative care. IGGMCH medical superintendent Dr SP Manjrekar said, “The lecturers and senior residents will perform the surgeries, but we need residents to look after the post-operative care of patients.”
 
 A 45-year-old female patient with pancreatic cancer is in need of surgery, which was scheduled on Wednesday. Since the strike was underway, the surgery has been rescheduled to next week. Meanwhile, her daughter, who has not yet broken the news of the cancer to her mother, is in a dilemma.
 
 The daughter said, “My mother won’t be able to bear the news of her illness. I had thought the surgery will get done on Wednesday, without having to inform her about the real cause. Right now, I am in dilemma. Day by day it’s becoming tough to bear the expense of food and conveyance due to the extension of surgery.”
 
 Dr Manjrekar said, “The patient under supra major surgery will be kept in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for three days post-surgery. Since we don’t have residents to look after her in the ICU, we did not choose to operate on her at present.”
 
 At the new 250-bed hospital of IGGMCH, a strict system of passes for relatives is being followed, to try and avoid confrontation between doctors and relatives. With only one pass per patient, only one relative can enter at a time. There are 43 guards working in three shifts, apart from one bouncer posted at the front gate all the time. Special female guards too were posted at female wards in all the departments.
 
 However, due to the strike, only two lecturers and three interns were seen looking after the patients. In four wards, even the nurses were absent. Patients said that in the absence of residents, the nurses were acting carelessly. A patient in the general surgery ward said, “After giving me injection, the nurse left the syringe on my blanket and went away. They are not following hygiene and timely check-up in the absence of residents.”
 
 On an average, the hospital admits 130 patients in IPD; but the number has gone down to 78 on March 22 and 58 on March 23. As against average figure of 22, only seven major surgeries were performed on Thursday and only one minor surgery.
 
 
