THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Whenever a block is identified in coronary arteries of a patient, he/she will be made to undergo   (PCI), commonly known as coronary angioplasty. However, experts in the field say that   is not always necessary to get rid of blockade and there are physiological parameters to make sure whether the patient has to undergo angioplasty or not. 

 Currently, Coronary Angioplasty is the most effective and minimally invasive procedure to open blocked or narrow coronary arteries to restore easy blood flow to heart muscles. A thin flexible tube, catheter, is threaded to the affected coronary artery. The blockage is flattened; artery is widened with balloon and re-narrowing is prevented with stent. 
 
 Experts say that angiographic results are not the final word; there are physiological parameters. The Annual Conference of the Society for Coronary Imaging and Physiology SCIP-2017 concluded at Kovalam on Sunday deliberated the issue in the scientific sessions.
 
 Dr. Keith George Oldroyd, Professor, Institute of Cardiovascualar and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow explained that Interventional cardiologists uses an important physiology tool called Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) to decide on whether to intervene or not. Here the pressure difference across the blockage is measured with a special guide wire. FFR is 1 for normal blood flow. Blockages that measure 0.80 or less means that 20% or more blood flow is prevented. Such blocks are considered ischemic and should be opened. Across the block when FFR measure greater than 0.80, there is more than 80% blood flow. When the blood flow is found not significantly obstructed, the blockage or lesion does not need angioplasty. The patient can be treated safely with medication. 
 
 Dr Sayan Sen, Consultant Cardiologist, Imperial College, London detailed the greater diagnostic flexibility and more choices offered by the latest technology in coronary stent guidance called Instant wave-Free Ratio or Instant Flow Reserve (IFR). The IFR wire can quickly be moved from one lesion to another in arteries that have multiple blockages. It can determine which of them is ischemic and require intervention. IFR also has real time use during revascularisation to find out if the stent has improved the pressure of blood flow or any further expansion or additional job is required, he said.
 
 Dr C G Bahuleyan, President SCIP, said that physiology-guided cardiac treatments like FFR and Instant wave-Free Ratio (IFR) contributes to best patient care and saves unnecessary hospital expenses.
 
 
