Mumbai: Singhanias, the promoters of fashion retailer  , are in the process of buying out JK   in Breach Candy in the city from the listed company for about Rs 600 crore. Going by the company's own valuation report, the price of the property is about Rs 7,100 crore. 

 IiAS, a company that advises institutional investors like mutual funds and insurance   on whether to support or oppose corporate decisions, has raised a red flag over the proposal. It has advised   shareholders to oppose the move at its forthcoming annual general meeting on June 5. 
 
 On its part,  , CMD, Raymond, said that the company adheres to the highest level of corporate governance and it will protect the interest of all its shareholders. IiAS also pointed out that the earlier Raymond had given on rent duplex flats in the south Mumbai house to the promoter family at an estimated rate of just Rs 2 per square foot per month.
 
 According to the resolution moved by Raymond for its June 5 AGM, the company proposes to sell the residential property to the Singhania family at Rs 9,200 per square foot (PSF) while it is currently valued at Rs 1.17 lakh per square foot-a discount of over 90% to the market rate. According to the current rules, the promoters are not allowed to vote on the resolution in the AGM, scheduled at   in Ratnagiri district. "Should this transaction go through, IiAS estimates that it will result in an opportunity loss of over Rs 6,500 crore for the company and its shareholders. IiAS recommends voting against this transaction," the report said.
 
 On its part, sources in Raymond said that the company in its letter to the shareholders have already explained the rationale behind this deal and how approving the same would turn out to be positive for the shareholders.
 
 IiAS also alleged that the board of directors of Raymond, especially the independent directors, failed in their duty to protect non-promoting shareholders. "In our opinion, the board has failed to protect the interests of the minority shareholders. The company and its directors must prepare themselves for shareholders seeking recompense," it noted. 
 
 It also said that Raymond shareholders must engage with the company and seek the removal of promoters from the audit committee and the nomination & remuneration committee, and ask for both committees to be comprised only of independent directors. 
 
 "These measures will ensure that the committees are devoid of any potential conflict," the report said.
 
 IiAS also questioned the company's stand about good corporate governance. It pointed out that it was in 2007 that the company and the promoters had signed the deal to purchase the property at the rate of Rs 9,200 per square foot. Yet, it was only recently disclosed the rate and is yet to disclose the total price the promoters will pay for the property. Raymond said that there was no legal obligation to disclose the deal. 
 
 "While the company may have its technical and legal arguments for these disclosures (or lack of disclosures), IiAS believes that from the perspective of transparency and good governance, the board has failed in discharging its fiduciary responsibilities towards shareholders," IiAS argued in the report.
 
 
