GURUGRAM: With the quantum of punishment for the 31 convicts in the 2012   labour unrest case set to be pronounced on Friday, over six lakh workers in Haryana and parts of   and   skipped a meal on Thursday as a sign of solidarity. The workers have also planned to gather at the Gurgaon district court complex on Friday. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has extended imposition of prohibitory orders till March 25, to avoid any sort of unrest. Earlier, the administration had imposed prohibitory orders only till Thursday.

 Around six lakh workers in industries in Gurgaon, Manesar, Binola, Siddhrawali, Bawal, Dharuhera, Pant Nagar, Tapukara, Bhiwadi, Nimrana and Noida participated in the food boycott. Last Thursday too, workers boycotted a meal provided by their companies, while also not bringing their own tiffins. However, back then, only around 20,000 workers from   and ancillary companies participated in it. 
 
 The solidarity will continue this Friday when leaders of over 150 workers unions are expected to be present in the court complex. Sensing the possibility of tension and violence, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders around sensitive spots in the district. Section 144, which prohibits gathering of five or more persons, carrying of weapons, etc., has been imposed around district courts,   road, Rajiv Chowk, Hero   Chowk, Kamla Nehru Park and Maruti Suzuki’s plants in Sector 18, Kherki Daula and Manesar.
 
 Around a dozen duty magistrates have been appointed in Gurgaon, while over a hundred labour officials have been given the task of ensuring no labour unrest takes place if the quantum of punishment is unacceptable to workers. In fact, the labour officers will counsel workers to reduce chance of violence.
 
 “The officers will be in present in the field and be in constant touch with the workers. They will see that the situation remains calm. They will guide the workers about further available legal recourse, if the workers find the quantum of punishment unacceptable,” said Jaibir Singh Arya, additional labour commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 In addition, 20 police companies have been deployed at spots identified as sensitive. The overall security arrangement is being supervised by police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar himself, while area SHOs, ACPs and DCPs will be present to manage ground-level security. Cops will be equipped with anti-riot equipment, including body protectors, helmets and cane shields, to combat violence.
 
 
