When   started out her acting journey in Mr & Mrs Ramachari, she was sure that the film world is where she wanted to be. Having starred in another film (Suli) and a web series, when an offer for a daily soap ( ) came along, Adhvithi was hesitant initially, but her role clinched the deal for her.

 “I wasn’t ready for TV. My sole focus was on films. Mohena Singh, the director, contacted me on social media, and after that, producer   spoke to me. When he told me about my role, I instantly liked it. I realized that acting is what I like, and if I act in a serial or in a movie, it’s all the same. Also, this serial may open more doors for me,” says Adhvithi.
 
 So, what is her role all about in Eradu Kanasu that has her excited? “I play a doctor — Dr  . The series is about two sisters, whose father is an auto rickshaw driver, who ensures that his daughters are well educated. The story is about how the two girls fulfil their father’s dream, the hurdles they face along the way and how they handle them. It’s a story of women empowerment and that is what attracted me to it,” she says.
 
 It’s been close to 10 days that the serial has been on air, but Adhvithi’s tryst with television is already yielding positive results. “People like the concept and story. My acting has also been appreciated, so much so that I am called by my character’s name,” she says. So, has television given her more exposure than films? “Ya, I think so. It’s just been around a week and people are already recognizing me. With movies, the response from the audience is not that quick. Not everyone will go to theatres to watch a film, but a lot of people watch TV,” Adhvithi adds.
 
 The actress has been receiving a few movie offers that she says she is taking her time with. She is happy that the Eradu Kanasu team is supportive and are happy to accommodate her if she has to do a movie simultaneously. So, does this apply for other serials as well? “I can’t work in another serial along with Eradu Kanasu. I am happy with the space I am in right now,” she signs off.
 
