Hyderabad: At a time when a majority of drivers of cab aggregatord like Uber and Ola have been alleging a fall in their incomes due to the increasing number of cabs plying on the roads, Ola feels Hyderabad has room for more.

 “In any city, there is a supply constraint. But the question is what kind of supply and that varies from market to market… In a city like Mumbai, there is a constraint for affordable means of transportation that may not be solved by cabs… In Hyderabad, we still think there is enough space for the cab segment to grow,” Ola senior director (marketing communication) Anand Subramanian said, adding that Hyderabad has been seeing more of office-related travel compared to many other cities.
 
 Since its launch in Hyderabad in May 2014, Ola has added 50,000 driver partners to its platform in the city. On being asked about the response from city drivers after the strike in January, Subramanian said, “We have never seen a dip in terms of the number of (driver) partners coming on board.” Ola currently offers Micro, Mini, Auto-rickshaws, Prime, Rentals and Outstation services in Hyderabad.
 
 Overall, Ola has been experiencing a 3X growth Y-o-Y in terms of business all over the country and the company expects this momentum to continue in the coming days too, he claimed.
 
 One of the major drivers of growth is that more youngsters are either delaying the purchase of their car or are opting not to buy cars due to issues such as high cost of maintenance and lack of parking space among, others. 
 
 After Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore, cab aggregator Ola on Monday announced the launch of its immersive tech offering Ola Play in Hyderabad. Ola Play brings advance car controls, choice of personalized content and a fully connected interactive experience for customers using Ola’s Prime service. The customers do not have to pay anything extra for the services.
 
 “The average time spent by customers in a cab in Hyderabad is 40 mins. We believe Ola Play will enhance the future of automobiles and the mobility experience for both customers and driver-partners. With Ola Play, we have brought on board some of the international and national content and technology partners to build a platform that is highly interactive, contextual and intelligent, and offer a truly connected ride sharing experience to our customers,” Ankit Jain, senior director and head of Ola Play, said.
 
 Ola Play has tied up with partners like Apple Music, Sony LIV, AIB, Arre’, Audio Compass, among others, to build an interactive experience for users. Ola plans to launch Ola Play in major cities in the coming days.
 
 
