After making it to the top four in   and walking away with `10 lakh (offered to the contestants to quit the show before the final), Jaipur boy   reached home on Tuesday. Manu, who was carrying some 90kg luggage, was welcomed with garlands and sweets at the airport. However, the celebrations were subdued since he lost his mother in December and did not want much fanfare. His neighbours at his Vaishali Nagar residence welcomed him with bouquets and dhol, and Manu happily obliged them with selfies. “He might not have won the show, but Manu Punjabi is still a winner for us.
 
  For an aam aadmi to become a finalist is no mean feat,” one of his neighbours remarked. 
  
  
 
  
  Manu was an ‘aam aadmi’ contestant on the show. He said, “I am very short-tempered. But I had gone there to do a game show. So we couldn’t be that aggressive. Moreover, somewhere I felt that I was representing the commoners.”
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  The four finalists, Manu,  , Bani Judge and Manveer Gujjar (winner), were offered `10 lakh to quit the show before the finale, which Manu accepted. He said, “Main show mein aaya apni marzi se, gaya bhi apni marzi se. Winner toh ek hi hoga end mein. And there was strong competition. Bani and Manveer had a huge fan following. So it was a wise decision to accept the offer and quit the show.” He hasn’t yet decided on what he’d be doing with the amount. “Abhi toh mai do din sona chahta hoon. Then I’ll think what to do with the money.”
  
  “Mujhe sabse zyada samajhdar main hi laga sabme se. So I felt a sense of responsibility on my shoulders. I acted as a parent for them and thus most of the time, I was trying to pacify the people there and making sure that there was peace in the house,” he said.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  Manu said, “I’ll miss everything – right from waking up to a nice Bollywood song to weekend ka khana sent by Salman sir. I’ll miss   and him saying, ‘Bigg Boss yeh chahte hain.’ It was an experience that I’ll never forget.” He added, “I have controlled my anger. And I have also become a little careful. I will think twice before taking any decision in my life.” Manu also lost a lot of weight in the show. “I have lost around 12kg. Khana nahi milta tha wahaan itna,” he said.
  
  
 
  
  Manu and Manveer often had to receive backlash for supporting Om Swami, despite his antics on the show. To which, Manu said, “Om Swami is mentally ill. We were just taking care of him keeping in mind that he is old. At some point, we had to baby sit him. And as I said before, I was being responsible on the show.   has no control on her tongue. I will never talk to these people again in my life.”
  
  
 
  
  Manu acquired the tag of a backbiter over the course on the show. But Manu has no problems with people calling him a backbiter. “Agar maine backbiting kari hai then definitely I am a backbiter. Ab 16 ghante main sirf achhi baatein toh nahi kar sakta na? It is natural that everyone will have problems with everyone and people will vent out their irritation or frustration,” Manu said.
  
  
 
  
  About staying friends with other contestants, especially Manveer, with whom he had hit off really well, Manu said, “If they want to be friends with me, I will definitely be friends with them. Main mere hisse ka karunga. But I can’t force anyone to be friends with me. Manveer and I are like brothers and we will remain friends. He might come to Jaipur to meet me in few days.” He added, “I really like Bani. She is a different individual. She likes to be happy in her own space.”
  
  
 
  
  Manu’s closeness with another contestant Mona Lisa created a lot of news outside the house. So much so that both Priya (aka Piku, Manu’s fiancée) and Vikrant (Mona Lisa’s husband) expressed their annoyance, with Priya even calling Mona a ‘despo’. To which, Manu said, “It was just immaturity on their part. I felt a little bad that Piku reacted like this. Mona and I are good friends. And then she must have seen that I was happily dancing and enjoying at Mona’s wedding in the show. Now, everything is fine.”
  
  Rahul Dev, post his eviction, had said that their much talked-about love angle was fake and was a strategy to stay longer in the house. Manu said, “I don’t know Rahul sir ne aisa kyu bola. Bigg Boss ke ghar mein koi bhi rishta strategy se nahi banta. Had it been a strategy, even Mona should have been in the finale.”
