You'd have thought protagonists of Hindi soaps, that holier than thou brigade who could do no wrong would end up with the maximum screen space time.
 
  Powerful antagonists whose only motto in life (read daily soaps) is to think of ways to make the lives of the protagonists are out to give the squeaky clean lead actors a run for their screen time. Bestowed with enviable bods, impeccable acting skills and more interesting wardrobes, when these manipulative meanies sink to the lowest of lows (and sometimes get to make multiple `wild card entries' in a show) that's when the storyline gets spicier and dramatic.
  
  Sample this: Kaali Thakur, the evil bigamist property tycoon from Bareilly ( ) in Dil Boley Oberoi, the shirtless Haryanvi Lothario Veer (Vikas Manaktala) in Ghulaam, Debina the glamourous goddess Poulomi Maa turned into the sultry Trishna, in Santoshi Maa, the obsessive and manipulative Maya ( ) in Beyhadh, Tanu (Leena Jumani) in Kumkum Bhagya,   as the mean wife Nisha in Woh Apna Sa, Svetlana ( ) the gold-digger in Ishqbaaaz and its spin off Dil Boley Oberoi and Shesha ( ), the evil nagin in Naagin 2 , Meghna (Sangeita Chauhan) in Ek Shringaar...Swabhiman have only one goal on screen -to create mischief and trouble for the main protagonists.
  
  
 
  
  Why are soap makers obsessed with villains grabbing screen space, sometimes over protagonists?
  
  Yash A Patnaik, producer of Jaana Na Dil Se Door and Kuch Rang Pyaar Ke Aise Bhi says, “Daily soaps have gone high octane in terms of drama quotient and antagonists provide the dra matic element to the storylines. In order to showcase the journey of protagonist in strong manner, makers need to have a stronger antagonist and that's why the screen timing may be prominent for villains on small screen.“ Sapna Malhotra, producer of Woh Apna Sa says, “Antagonists have prominent screen presence as they create drama in the life of protagonists. TV shows are all about drama with lots of spice and twist and turns. In every human being, there is an element of grey too. So, somewhere and sometimes audiences identify with the antagonist too at a human level.“
  
  For actors who are essaying the roles of villains, it's a creative call that they respect and the extended screen time is only a bonus. Adaa who plays SheshaRuchika in Naagin 2 says, “Life is not black or white. It's grey, a combination of good and bad. Evil or grey characters in TV shows adds drama and the much needed spicing up of the storyline. Let's face it audiences want to see the drama.Plus a grey character has a huge responsi bility to get the expressions and emotions right. And that is the reason why when compared to positive roles, grey characters intrigue the audience.“
  
  Pooja Banerjee, who has just entered Chandra Nandini as a Vishkanya shares, “Antagonists get a lot of shades to play which by default gives a lot of screen space to them. That's why the antagonist gets a lot of prominence in Indian TV and not just Indian TV , it's prominent all around the globe. With every passing year, we evolve as an actor. By doing a grey shade I have the scope to perform and showcase my histrionic skills.“ Vikas Manaktala, who plays Veer in Ghulaam says, “I wouldn't agree that an antagonist has more screen time over the protagonist. I'd say, both have an equal share of screen presence and no one can overpower the other as they are supposed to compliment each other in terms of giving a right flow to the track. As to whether an antagonist is more glamourous than a main protagonist, it depends on the actor to do his bit to add an appeal to the role. That's what I have done along with my producer and the creative team.“ Given that the characters sporting grey shades on small screen soaps enhance the storyline, it's small wonder that they also get to enjoy more screen time.
