HYDERABAD: A techie from the state has died in suspicious circumstances in Algeria. While the company he was working has informed the family that he had committed suicide, the family suspects murder. The family was informed about his death on March 18.

 Mohammed Akter Uddin Shahed, 31, had left for Algeria on Jan 3 to work in  .
 
 “He spoke to us the night before his death. He was a strong person and would never think of committing suicide. We even discussed about his marriage and his future career plans,“ Shahed's elder brother Mohd Azher Uddin told TOI. In fact, Shahed was planning to go to Dubai after he returned from Algeria, the family said.
 
 The family was informed that Shahed had committed suicide by hanging himself with aTV cable wire. “He was put up in a tin shed room provided by the company. Since he did not open the door, they said they pushed it hard to enter and found him dead in the bathroom,“ Azher Uddin said.
 
 “We are being misled by the company representative who called us. They have been changing their versions about the incident,“ he said. Azher Uddin said that they suspect that somebody entered the room from the window, which had no grills, and killed his brother.
 
 The family wants a thorough investigation into the death. They said that the ceiling of the tin accommodation was not more than six-and-a-half feet and there was no ceiling fan from where Shahed could have hanged himself.
 
 It's the conflicting versions from the company that has made the family suspicious, rein forcing their belief that everything was not above board.They were first informed that the company officials broke open the door. Then they were told that police had come to break open the door. “How could they immediately declare that it was a suicide without any investigation into the matter?“ asked Azher Uddin.
 
 Later, the family was informed that an autopsy was conducted and it was concluded that it was a case of suicide.“We cannot believe this. Shahed had no reason to end his life,“ Azher Uddin said.
 
 Bringing the body back home is another issue the family is struggling with. They met IT and   affairs minister K T Rama Rao on Monday and provided him all the details and documents. “The minister has assured help,“ Azher Uddin said.
 
 The family has also got in touch with the   in Algeria.
 
 MBT leader Amjedullah Khan has also written a letter to Union external affairs minister  , urging that help be provided by the embassy to send the body back to India. It was mentioned that Shahed's mother's had suffered shock and was admitted to a hospital. Her condition is said to be critical.
 
