KOLKATA: A major hurdle in the Joka-BBD Bag   stretch has been cleared with the ministry of defence (MoD) granting permission for construction of the Mominpore station at its orginal location on  . 

 The 15.07km project, launched by then President Pratibha Patil in 2010, was put in jeopardy with the MoD refusing to release a 500-metre stretch. The ministry also had objections as the proposed elevated station will overlook the  . 
 
 “We have finally received clearance to commence work. This will be of immense help. Mominpore is the last elevated station from the Joka end. Beyond Mominpore, the tracks will move underground through a ramp,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO,  . 
 
 It hasn’t been a smooth going for the Rs 2,913.50crore Joka-BBD Bag project that holds great promise in connecting the remote parts of South 24-Parganas to the heart of Kolkata. The project has already missed its deadline and till March, 2016, only about Rs 383.05 crore of the allocation could be spent. After the MoD objected to the original plans, the state government offered land at the   but this would have involved a change in alignment, resulting in further time and cost overruns. 
 
 “The Mominpore station, which is between Majerhat and Kidderpore, is crucial. The MoD had originally suggested that we give up this station and proceed directly to Kidderpore from Majerhat. The project would have been in jeopardy had we taken that decision. The purpose of any Metro project is defeated if the distance between two stations is too much. A study revealed that the Metro will get nearly 20,000 passengers (one way during the peak period) from Mominpore alone. It wasn’t possible to build an underground station at Mominpore either as the gradient from Taratala would be too sharp,” another Metro official said.
 
 With the MoD’s clearance, two of the major hurdles of the project have been removed. The first one was the acquisition of land in possession of the ministry of finance at Alipore Mint. A few months ago, the ministry granted a go-ahead to construct pillars there. However, there is still a major hitch — acquisition of land for the carshed in Joka — that needs to be resolved as soon as possible if a part of the network (till Majerhat) is to be thrown open by the end of 2018.
 
 “There have been some positive developments in the recent past. We require 24 hectares for the carshed. Till now, we have managed to get 50% of this. While 23% was acquired earlier, the remaining came in the last four months, thanks to the initiative of mayor Sovan Chatterjee,” Banerjee said.
 
