Most salaried people were upset by the Budget. Everyone had hoped that income tax rates would be reduced and exemption limits would be raised. Instead, the   not only reduced the rate on the first taxable slab but also reduced the threshold beyond which a surcharge has to be paid. While the surcharge till this year, of 15%, was being levied on those with earnings of more than Rs 1 crore annually, now a surcharge of 10% will also be levied on all those earning from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore. 

  Larger corporates are upset, on the other hand, with the finance minister's corporate tax reforms for smaller enterprises only. Rahul Bajaj was one of the few who publicly took a contrarian view. Three years ago, the   had committed to slowly bringing down the corporate tax rate to 25%. He had done nothing so far. This year, he brought down the income tax rate on enterprises with turnover under Rs 50 crore to 25%. 
 
  The minister reasoned that 90% of all enterprises will be affected by his rate reduction and they are also the largest group of employers. It is another matter altogether that many of them are also the entities that do not pay much tax on their income. The minister also pointed out that the effective tax rate (calculated from among those who pay taxes) on the smaller enterprises is close to 30% while that on the larger enterprises is less than 24%. If improving compliance is the goal, this is a good move even though the corporates that have been left out from this largesse are offended by this.
 
  But what about the surcharge on those with annual salaries above Rs 50 lakh? If I were to be politically smart and fiscally prudent, I would do precisely this! Taxes on salaries are difficult to evade, and there are a surprisingly small number of people who report incomes between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore. And for those non-salaried individuals who earn more than Rs 50 lakh, there are other and easier methods of getting them to comply. Recall the introduction of the six-point formula by the UPA government to identify people that should be in the tax-net? Evasion of taxes by high-income salaried people is not the problem. As for others who earn this much but not through salaries and, hence, could evade taxes, the surcharge does not matter unless they are caught. This rate of surcharge is less than the punishment for being caught for evading taxes. 
 
  Overall, the budget gives hope. It has maintained fiscal prudence and has shown a commitment to maintain that in the coming years. It has focussed on infrastructure. And, it has achieved buoyancy in tax collection even when the economic growth rate has slowed. 
 
 The finance minister is right to lay his finger on India's low tax-to-GDP ratio and the urgent need to substantially increase this. The net tax revenue has grown by 17% for two consecutive years which is a good sign. Advanced tax collection in personal income tax is up by 34.8%. The government has also rightly resisted the temptation to play with the fiscal deficit. 
 
 The finance minister deserves 8/10 for this Budget.
 
  
 
 
