BENGALURU: As many as 1,000 objection letters were filed by 337 resident welfare associations (RWAs) on Friday against the draft zoning regulations, urging the government not to notify the new rules. 

 Sunday is the last day to file objections.
 
 Eminent citizens and members of key civic groups like Citizens' Action Forum (CAF), Namma Bengaluru Foundation and   submitted objections to officials in the directorate of town and country planning. 
 
  Sridhar Pabisetty, CEO of Namma Bengaluru Foundation, said, "The proposed norms will worsen the quality of life of every Bengalurean. Rampant commercialization makes residential neighbourhoods unsafe, especially for the elderly and children. When the city is already choking with illegal commercial establishments on roads that are less than 40ft wide, the government, instead of enforcing the norms, has chosen to sacrifice citizens' interest and placate the real estate lobby." 
 
 Vijayan Menon, representing Koramangala 3rd Block RWA and CAF , said, "Many objections are being filed against the draft. I can only hope the administration takes note of these and our direct petitions to our elected representatives and stops this misadventure. It shouldn't push us to the next step of outright protests and legal interventions." 
 
 #HosaZoningBeda, the citizens' campaign, has picked up pace with Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) gearing up for a mass objection-filing camp at the directorate of town and country planning of the urban development department on Saturday. CfB has also started an online petition on its   page, asking citizens to vote on, 'Should zoning regulations be dictated by local city governments or the state or the Centre?'. 
 
  Questioning lawmakers 
 
 Activists have also been connecting with MLAs and area corporators to garner their support for the citizens' movement against the draft zoning norms. 
 
 "While MLAs are aware and many are even against the draft rules, a majority of BBMP councillors remain unaware. Only a few seem to know about it but support the need for commercialization. When we spoke to   working president Dinesh Gundu Rao to know why citizens aren't being consulted, he invited us for a meeting with him and Bengaluru in-charge minister K J George on Monday," said Tara Krishnswamy, member of CfB. 
 
 Over 100 CfB members are calling lawmakers with questions about the recent draft notification. Among the queries are whether they know that the zoning regulations will enable complete commercialization of areas with 30ft-wide roads. They are also seeking lawmakers' commitment to get the issue discussed in the assembly and hold public consultation before it's approved.
 
 The members have decided to record the elected representatives' responses on a   form. As on Friday, they spoke to 14 of the 28 Bengaluru MLAs and 12 of them supported the activists' position on the draft rules, said Srinivas Alavilli of CfB. 
 
