In a disturbing case, a complaint was lodged against a nine-year-old boy at   for cruelly beating a cat to death. The incident took place at the   society in Tingrenagar on March 28, when the boy found the cat and began harassing it, and then beat it badly. Another child from the society took the feline home — his mother Kamna Gandhe, who is the complainant in the case, tried to take care of the cat, but it died on April 4.

 The next day, an FIR was filed against the minor with the help of  , under Section 429 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 11(1)(A) and 11(1)(T) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.
 
 Gandhe told cops, “A few months ago, a couple of cats began frequenting our society’s parking. Since then, the children of residents used to often play with them. The evening of the incident, around 7 pm, my son and some of his friends came running to tell me about this boy’s brutality. He had flung the cat in the air, thrown it against a way and kicked it several times. When I rushed to the spot, I saw the cat injured and unconscious. I called the watchman and other residents for help. My son insisted that we bring the pet home and try to revive it. We did so and immediately contacted the   and Rescue Team (ALERT).”
 
 Animal rescue personnel arrived soon thereafter and checked on the cat. The Gandhes were told to tend to her, feed her regularly and give her some calcium tablets. However, she succumbed to her injuries. “We lodged a complaint with the help of ALERT head  . The innocent animal died due to the cruel behaviour of that child. It needs to be taken up so that he and his family realise that such killing is not fun and games,” said Gandhe.
 
 Mathrani told Mirror, “Plenty of research points to a connection between animal abuse in one’s childhood and psychopathy as an adult. It is very hard for law enforcement to lodge FIRs when children are involved. We have to make sure the child concerned gets counselling and remedial therapy, by law. It is imperative that parents are proactive and recognise criminal intent. This is also why we stress on educational institutions teaching empathy and compassion towards animals. Helpless and defenceless animals are targeted because perpetrators, no matter what age, do not care about pain caused.”
 
 Sanjay Naik Patil, senior police inspector at Vimantal PS, said, “We have taken down the FIR and our officials are now gathering more evidences of animal cruelty and taking the statements of society residents. As the accused is a minor, we have not arrested him. His parents will be called in to give a statement. Once the investigation is completed, a chargesheet will be sent to the court.”
 
