JAIPUR: In an attempt to draw the attention of the state government, farmers of Ninder village adopted a unique way to protest demanding de-acquisition of their land.

 For the first time in the state, farmers on Gandhi Jayanti took ‘zameen samadhi satyagraha’ for indefinite period where their bodies (with only the heads sticking out) remained buried under the earth. The   ( ) has acquired huge chunks of land to develop the second largest housing colony in the city.
 
 Nagendra Singh, coordinator, Ninder Bacho Kisan Yuva Samiti, said, “We have started our protest against JDA’s injustice. Our samadhi would continue till the time state government does not roll back its decision and announces to de-acquire our lands.”
 
 On the first day, 22 farmers sat inside the pits. Slogans against JDA and ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ were raised by the remaining protesters who camped in the Ninder area to motivate farmers who have taken ‘zameen samadhi’.
 
 Protesters claimed, more farmers will sit on dharna inside the pit if the state government does not take any action to resolve their demands.
 
 Farmers further alleged, “The state government is insensitive towards farmers. No representative from JDA or state government came forward for talks. We are protesting here for the past 14 days. However, when government neglected our demands, we decided to intensify our protest and take ‘zameen samadhi’,” said another protester.
 
 Meanwhile, urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shrichand Kriplani claimed, “The state government is open to talks and we are ready to listen to the demands of the farmers. A delegation should come to us meet, so talks could happen in respectful manner.”
 
 The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) had planned to acquire 1,300 bighas to develop the housing scheme. Out of this, the civic body took possession of 110 bighas recently from the ‘mandir mafia’. Till date, the JDA has taken possession of 600 bighas located in the scheme. It has also deposited Rs 60 crore in the court for the acquired land.
 
 Farmers alleged majority of housing schemes developed by JDA in the past 10 years are lying vacant. The civic body is developing a housing project without its utility after taking expensive land from the farmers.
 
 “The government should acquire land of farmers as per new  , Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. It’s clearly mentioned, that government cannot acquire land, if consent from 80% farmers is not given,” added a protester. 
 
 
