KOLHAPUR: The   (KMC) is planning to set up a biogas plant at the site reserved for the truck terminus near  .

 The KMC has begun the hunt for locations where biogas plants — with capacity to treat 5 to 30 tonne waste — can be set up at various parts of the city as an effort towards decentralisation of waste processing.
 
 The KMC has already begun the construction work of a 30 tonne capacity biogas plant at the dome of old sewage treatment plant (STP) in Kasba Bawda and another of a smaller capacity at Puikhadi. Recently, the KMC initiated the work to set up an organic waste composter unit at Mailkhadda area where 2 tonne of organic waste can be processed to convert into organic manure.
 
 Vijay Patil, chief sanitation inspector of the KMC, said, “The land near Tawade Hotel area is reserved for truck terminus and garbage depot. Currently, the issue of encroachments on these locations is under judicial scrutiny and we are confident about the transfer of the land to the KMC soon. The waste generated in E ward areas will be shifted to the biogas unit proposed at Tawade Hotel. We are appealing the hotel operators to use the facility once commissioned so that the existing strain over the KMC to dispose the daily waste generated in the city can be reduced.”
 
  had asked the state government to hear the case of jurisdiction of land area. The hearing has been completed and the government is learnt to be satisfied with the claims of the civic administration.
 
 The KMC has assured to clear the waste piled up at Kasba Bawda dumping site before onset of monsoon. However, the plans are likely to delay as the civic administration has not received response from the transport service providers to transport the waste to the landfill sites.
 
 “As per the rules, the tenders are issued only after at least three bidders apply. We have received the quotations from two transport service providers and in next tendering we are hopeful that many will apply. The work to shift inert material which is huge quantity at Kasba Bawda site is time consuming. Therefore, we need players having large machines to carry out the shifting operations,” said Patil.
 
