JAIPUR: It was really shocking for a couple when they realised their   from   (FBNC) in the   of Karauli. The couple alleged carelessness and negligence of hospital administration. An FIR against the hospital staff has been filed in   police station.

 The incident took place on Thursday afternoon and police are yet to make any arrest in the case so far. 
 
 At around 12 pm on Thursday, mother of the infant, Barkha, breastfed her ailing infant for the maiden time but, she didn’t get to see her baby after that. At around 3 pm, the infant was already stolen. She along with her husband Kanhaiyya Lal searched every nuke and corner of the hospital but all their efforts went futile. Nurses and other staff on duty failed to give reply to the devastated couple about the whereabouts of the infant. The couple was worried of their baby’s health as he did not recuperate completely.
 
 The infant was born on February 5 in some other hospital. Since he was premature and underweight, the parents admitted him to FBNC section of Karauli district hospital on February 8.
 
 “He was recovering on Friday. The oxygen support was also taken off as there was no requirement of it. But, on the same day he was stolen from the hospital,” principal medical officer Dr Ram Singh Meena said.
 
 Dr Meena said that after the incident, hospital administration suspended two nurses on duty at the time of infant had been stolen. Hhospital administration informed district administration as well as police due to the protest by attendants of the infant against hospital administration. 
 
 The stolen baby was the only child of his parents. Police have lodged an FIR against four persons in the case. “We have lodged an FIR against two nurses and two Yashodas (helpers in FBNC). We are investigating the matter,” investigating officer Lakhan Singh said, adding that it is first of its kind incident that took place in Karauli’s district hospital.
 
 “It has never happened before. We are questioning the nurses and Yashodas along with other hospital administration officials to find out any clue in the case,” Singh said. 
 
 Only one CCTV camera has been installed in the hospital. Police have collected the CCTV footage. The camera is installed at the main gate of the hospital. But, no camera has been installed in FBNC section till now. 
 
 Hospital administration has CCTV cameras but they have not yet been installed. A separate mother and child health (MCH) centre is coming up some 12 kms away from district hospital. CCTV cameras will be installed at the MCH. 
 
