NASHIK: The   (MSRTC) has introduced Sinnar–Nashik Road–Trimbakeshwar   services to cater to passengers, especially pilgrims, reaching   station by train.

  The buses on this route will be available every half-an-hour.
 
 The state transport utility has been receiving requests for buses plying from Nashik Road station to Trimbakeshwar given the large number of pilgrims coming to the city by train.
 
 “Currently, the passengers catch a bus or other public transport for Central Bus Station (CBS) and then catch another bus for Trimbakeshwar. The passengers are also lured by private taxi drivers. We took a cab and were charged excessively. Since we were unaware of the charges, we never complained about it. But when we studied the fare structure I decided not to travel by such vehicles anymore,” Shivkumar Illuru, a pilgrim from Karnataka, said.
 
 Despite the MSRTC plying buses continuously on the Trimbakeshwar route from Mela Stand, its bad policies are leading to losses. “People would want to travel by MSRTC, but the problem is unavailability of buses because of which the people are forced to opt for other services,” Rajesh Shinde, a Nashikite, said.
 
 The MSRTC has therefore decided to introduce direct buses from Nashik Road to Trimbakeshwar. “In fact, we are now starting buses from Sinnar that will come to Nashik Road and then move on to Trimbakeshwar so commuters have direct bus services. For the return journey, the Sinnar bus will start from Trimbakeshwar and reach Sinnar via Nashik Road. The frequency of buses will be one in every 30 minutes,” MSRTC divisional transport officer RD Jagtap said.
 
 Similar bus services are also being planned between Pimpalgaon and Niphad, Chandwad and Satana, Nashik and Satana, Kalwan and Malegaon and other areas where there is higher demand from commuters.
 
 Appreciating the move,   secretary Vilas Deole said the MSRTC has taken a wise decision in running frequent buses between these destinations. “If the MSRTC improves such services, it will receive good traffic and gain confidence of the passengers,” he said.
 
 He, however, pointed out the MSRTC move comes in the backdrop of a private travel agency offering to ferry passengers between Nashik and Trimbakeshwar free of cost. “Had the company not announced this scheme, the MSRTC could have taken longer to improve the services for the people,” Deole said.
 
