PUNE: Former   mayor Mangala Kadam's   fell for one of the oldest tricks in the book on Wednesday evening.
Unidentified miscreants fooled driver   by scattering a few currency notes on the road and then stole cash and valuables worth Rs 1.4 lakh from the mayor's car, which was parked near   on  
 
 The 34-year-old driver from Chinchwad has lodged a police complaint. According to the complaint, According to the complaint, Kadam wanted to do some shopping in the Deccan area on Wednesday .So, Patil stopped the car near Good Luck cafe and Kadam visited a sports store located nearby .
 
 While Kadam was busy shopping, Patil was sitting inside the parked car. “I had a doubt that oil was leaking from the car, so I got out and sat on my haunches to check the road under the bonnet of the car. Satisfied that there was no leakage, I got back in and sat on the driver's seat,“ Patil told TOI.
 
 A few minutes later, Patil said, a man knocked on the car window and told Patil that some currency notes were scattered in front of the car. He was accompanied by another person. “I checked my pocket and realized that some of my cash was missing and thought the cash lying on the road belonged to me,“ he said.
 
 As Patil got out of the car again to pick up the notes, the two men walked away . However, once he got back into the car after picking up the notes, he realized that Kadam's bag containing valuables was missing.
 
 “The bag was kept on the floor of the car behind the driver's seat. As it was hot, I had kept the rear window open for ventilation,“ Patil, who has been working as a driver with the Kadam family for eight years, said.
 
 According to the Deccan Gymkhana police, the bag contained Rs 50,000 in cash, a cellphone worth Rs 50,000, and two pairs of sunglasses worth Rs 40,000. It also had some important documents.
 
 After this theft, a team headed by senior police inspector Ajay Kadam of the Deccan Gymkhana police station con ducted a search for the suspects in the area.
 
 While searching, the police team located at least ten cars parked on J M Road and Apte Road in which laptop bags and valuables were kept either on the front or rear seats and were unattended.
 
 Many police advisories tell vehicle owners and users to specifically not carry valuables while travelling, and especially not keep it inside the car as conmen often use such methods to trick gullible people.
 
