KOLKATA: Stagnant water inside underconstruction buildings, mounds of garbage and dirty waterbodies -the civic apathy at Vidyasagar Colony at  , where a man died of dengue on Thursday , was glaring.

 Sixty-year-old Shivshankar Jha was the first dengue casualty but definitely not the first case of dengue in the neighbourhood, the residents said.
 
 Jha was admitted to hospital with high fever and multiple complications on Wednesday . Doctors carried out an NS1 test which confirmed dengue.
 
 In the past three weeks, there have been several “low intensity“ cases of dengue in Vidysagar Colony and its vicinity , located off Ganguly Bagan at Jadavpur where real estate development is gradually nudging away standalone homes. Krishnendu Nag, who stays in the same neighbourhood as the deceased Jha, recovered from dengue last week. “There have been several cases in the neighbour hood in the past few weeks. The test confir med dengue,“ said 46-year-old Nag.
 
 Residents said stagnant water inside under-construction buildings was the main source of bree ding of mosquitoes. “There is ram pant construction happening in this area. These buildings are at various sta ges of completion. Mosquitoes breed in the water in these buildings,“ said a local resident. The disease, which had been restricted to South Dum Dum and the northern fringes of the city till last week, has now claimed four lives in less than seven days in the   area. Last week, a father-son duo had succumbed at Kasba, followed by the death of an infant at Beckbagan on Tuesday .
 
 In 2015, dengue became widespread after the outbreak in Salt Lake from where it entered the city limits through EM Bypass, Tiljala, Topsia and then entered south Kolkata through   area and the Prince Anwar Shah connector to Bypass.
 
 Last week, experts had warned dengue may spread quickly , affecting many people in the city. The city witnessed two more deaths since then.
 
 Local councillor Debashish Mukherjee admitted dengue was a cause of concern in the area but insisted the residents were equally responsible for cleanliness.“We have been spreading awareness and carrying out cleanliness drives to restrict the spread of dengue. The health workers are visiting neighbourhoods and checking stagnant water pockets,“ said Mukherjee.
 
