NAGPUR: Talented city shuttler   is on a song this year. Upbeat after winning her maiden All India Senior Ranking Badminton tournament title at Valsad, Gujarat last month, Rasika had another reason to beam with pride. The latest   (BAI) rankings placed the southpaw with 2897 points at India No. 2 spot - her career best achievement so far.

 With 3172 points,   of Telangana - who is Rasika's practice partner at the   at Hyderabad - occupies the top spot. K Sri   (Telangana) with 2889 points is placed on the third position.
 
 The difference in points between Rasika, who was earlier ranked No. 6, and Rituparna is not much -- a couple of good All India Ranking tournaments will help Rasika climb to top spot. As and when Rasika reaches to No. 1 BAI rankings, she will emulate her senior city counterpart  . Arundhati was India No. 1 on more than couple of occasions in the last six years.
 
 Rasika, a second year BA student of  , was No. 2 in the U-19 girls singles few years ago. She is happy achieving the same ranking in the senior section. "I was No. 2 in the juniors and now I am No. 2 in the seniors. It is a very satisfying feeling. I will definitely try to reach the No. 1 ranking soon. If I maintain my good form in the next few tournaments, I should reach India No. 1 spot," Rasika told TOI on Friday.
 
 The 21-year-old Rasika, however, is keen to improve her international ranking. "It's a welcome thing to be India No. 2 but my focus is to improve my BWF rankings. Right now I am lying lowly at 147 in the world. I want to break into the world's top-100 by year end," said Rasika, who is supported by  .
 
 Rasika will play two international tournaments in May in Thailand. "I will be competing in one International Challenge and one Grand Prix Gold tournament in Thailand. Besides Gopichand Sir, the new singles coach from Indonesia is also providing vital inputs to improve my game," said Rasika, who represents Airports Authority of India (AAI) during the national-level tournaments.
 
