PUNE: The   has directed the   2017 to consider the   of seven young men for inclusion of their names in the final provisional merit list for recruitment against   excelling in national, international, state or university level sporting events. 

 The court has directed these sportsmen to file their representation with the committee by May 24. "If such a representation, along with the copies of necessary documents, is filed, the respondent (recruitment committee) shall consider the same and take appropriate decision in accordance with law," a vacation bench of Justices A S Gadkari and C V Bhadang said in an order on May 18. 
 
 The seven sportsmen moved the high court after the names of five of them were put in the provisional select list and another two in the wait list, subject to verification of their sports certificates by the deputy director of sports, as required by a GR of July 1, 2016. 
 
 They argued that for want of such verification they may lose their probable selection considering that the selection process was over and their names have figured in the provisional selection list. 
 
 The petitioners relied on a high court order on April 28 in a similar situation where the recruitment committee, led by additional commissioner (administration) of Pune police, was directed to consider the representation of Atul C Shende, the petitioner in that case. Shende had represented Savitribai Phule Pune University's kho-kho team in the state-level inter-university competition where his team had secured the third position. 
 
 The counsel for the government then submitted that if the seven petitioners make a representation, the same shall be considered and decided in accordance with the law. 
 
 The counsel had earlier pointed out that as per the GR, the candidates seeking recruitment through the sportsmen quota were required to get their sports certificates verified by the deputy director of sports. Relying on the April 28 order, the vacation bench went on to pass the directive for consideration of the petitioners' sports certificates for verification by police recruitment committee. 
 
 
