KOLKATA: Like  ,   may slip out of state's hand and is likely to be placed under the   as   hinted while making his   on Wednesday . If things go according to plans, admission to all the 34,000-odd seats in the engineering colleges of Bengal will be placed under this agency .Even   , the premier technology varsity under the state, and West Bengal University of Technology that has 60 seats of its own may not have the option to decide on student intake on their own.

 Jaitley in his budget speech floated the proposal of setting up a National Testing Agency (NTA) to relieve CBSE and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) from conducting entrance tests and concentrate on academics instead.Going by what Jaitley said the GATE examination for engineering graduates for pursuing postgraduate studies has also come under the NTA shadow.The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), formerly known as Bengal Engineering College, Sibpur has already switched to the all-India JEE (mains) mode after getting the IIEST tag. Experts, however, point to a recent legislation by the Tamil Nadu government of conducting its own admission procedure for medical entrance as one route for Bengal to avoid the NTA route in engineering admission.
 
 But such a move would go against the West Bengal Higher Education Council's proposal to conduct a common state entrance test for postgraduate studies. “We need to see how the Centre develops the proposal. We will wait till a detailed proposal comes from the HRD ministry and AICTE. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will examine the proposal before we announce our stand,“ said state education minister Partha Chatterjee. And then, with a pause, Chatterjee said it won't be easy to bring engineering admission under NTA. “The Medical Council of India has a role to play in taking policy decisions in regard to medical colleges. But there is no such body for engineering colleges,“ the education minister said.
 
 AICTE chairman Anil B Sahasrabudhe is hopeful about the common engineering ent rance test from 2018. “We are in the process of drawing up a proposal which will ease the engineering admission system in the country . It will also bring uniformity in the quality of engineering education,“ he said. The Common Entrance Test once introduced will bring all engineering institutes -private, state run as well as deemed -under its purview. The proposal is likely to include holding the examination in several regional languages.
 
 Jadavpur University vicechancellor Suranjan Das said: “A common entrance test is welcome to ensure equity and justice for students across boards. The test should see to it that all the elements of the diversified school education curricula in our country is well represented in the question pattern so that students of one school board doesn't get any natural advantage.“ The West Bengal Joint Entrance Board is sceptic about the proposal.
 
 NTA or no NTA, the state prefers the pen-and-paper test.“Many candidates apply from distant villages who may not be comfortable with the mode of the exam,“ said an official of West Bengal University of Technology which is the sole affiliating varsity for the private engineering colleges in Bengal.
 
