INDORE: The blame game and promises of better courts, infrastructure and policies for advocates has already started at Indore district court as new faces contest the post of president this year. Two contestants have already submitted their forms for the posts whereas one form for the most coveted post has been sold and is yet to be distributed.

 Among the new faces is Roshan Sonkar, contesting for president for the first time since contesting as vice president 25 years ago. Awdhesh   contested for president last in 2014 and has joined the race after three years. Another form for the post has been bought by Mahesh Kumar Dixit.
 
 Among the issues raised by candidates is one regarding shifting the district court to new premises, a major part of all candidates’ campaign agenda.
 
 “My focus in the election campaign is that the district court building must remain at its current location where a five-storey building can be built with ample space for courtrooms and advocates’ chambers. Young advocates who have just begun practice have to compromise a lot as they cannot take chambers or offices. For them I will continue to fight for special arrangements,” Roshan Sonkar said, who has been the election coordinator for 11-time president Surendra  .
 
 Verma, who is eligible to contest for the post of president this year, is yet to declare his decision whether he will file the nomination form or not. Taking full advantage of Verma’s indecision regarding his candidacy, Awdhesh Sharma has released his election memorandum and has promised a host of policies for advocates and measures to increase revenue of the bar association.
 
 “Other contestants in the race to be president are simply out to appease voters by hosting cricket matches and circulating shayaris, but my focus is reforms for advocates through medical claim policy, free laptops policy for 100 advocates every year, pension policy, post death fund provision policy, etc.” Sharma said.
 
 Another prominent contestant for president,  , had earlier also contested for the post and is yet to purchase his form.
 
 
