TRICHY: For  , the new chairman of Tata Sons,   - Trichy (NIT-T), earlier known as  , was a turning point in his career. History would have been different for him and Tata Sons had he pursued his early interest - chartered accountancy. However, he gave up CA to join the first batch of   at REC launched way back in 1983. 

 After graduating from   that year, Chandrasekaran came to know about the launch of MCA at REC. He cracked the entrance test and decided to go for it. "One of the brightest students in the REC, Chandrasekaran was always surrounded by friends, be it in classroom or in hostel," says the senior-most faculty at the MCA department N P Gopal.
 
 "Chandra was an excellent manager right from his college days and could hone his skills in management," says he adding that it could help him excel in his career spanning over three decades. It wasn't an easy decision to take up a newly launched course but his advocate father motivated him to go for it, he said. 
 
 He finished three projects in Tata Consultancy Services during his last semester and joined the company in 1987 after which there was no looking back. He went on to become the CEO of the company which grew as the most successful one in Tata Sons. 
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone from Kolkata, former head of the MCA department at NIT-T, Anish Kumar Banerjee, said, "When I met him in 2014 before my retirement, he was CEO of a reputed company. I am delighted to know that he has now become the Chairman of Tata Sons. It always feels great when you see your students grow," he said. 
 
 Chandrasekaran was conferred with 'Distinguished Alumni Award' by NIT-T in 2014 when he visited the institute last. In an unprecedented move in NIT-T, a whole day was dedicated for him providing an opportunity for students to interact with one of the most successful CEOs. 
 
 Recollecting Chandra's interaction with the students, head of training and placement department AK Bakthavatsalam said it was amusing to hear him express his "inability to write a good resume" for he never had an opportunity to move out of TCS. 
 
 Chandra was also awestruck by a short film made by the students after an elaborate research on him. Right from introducing some of his old classmates, the film had mention even of his teacher in sixth grade, Kannammal. It was she who inspired him to solve problems around him and his organisation, recollected Bakthavatsalam. 
 
 "Something that sets Chandra apart is his ability to see opportunity in crisis,' says senior professor of chemical engineering N Ananthakrishnan. One such example was the Y2k phenomenon. While the rest of the world was panicking, Chandra and TCS used this as an opportunity to turn around their business fortunes," he said.
 
 "Once we tried to get an appointment of former chairman of Tata Sons Cyrus P Mistry through Chandra. But the plan was subsequently dropped after coming to know that he was engaged for the next two years. Now that our own alumnus is the chairman we will try to call him to his alma mater for graduation day," said S R Balasundaram, head of MCA department at NIT.
 
