BHOPAL: To kick-start the redevelopment project of  , the Bhopal rail division has initiated installation of elevators to make the   differently-abled and senior citizen friendly. This is being done before private investors take over the revamping process.

 The elevators will be now present on every platform except platform 2 and 3. Stairs on one side of the old and new footover bridges is being replaced by elevators. The construction work for the elevators is already completed for platforms 4 and 5 and it is installed on the new bridge. Construction has started on platform number 6 on the old as well as new bridge.
 
 There will be no elevators on platform 2 and 3 as the distance between the track and bridge is not sufficient to allow an elevator to function, an engineer working on the project said. 
 
 “Elevators are being installed keeping in mind the requirements of differently-abled and senior citizens. All the platforms will be well connected now,” said IA Siddiqui, spokesperson for Bhopal rail division.
 
 Platform number 1 already has an elevator running but passengers complain that on many occasions it is out of order. With the installation of new elevators, the question arises whether they will function properly.
 
 “It is a good step by the rail authorities. This will help reduce crowding at staircases during rush hours. However, it should be seen that the elevators are not overused or misused. If all the FOBs get elevators on one side which is under constant supervision of a railway employee, it will be the best,” said Pankaj Parihar, a passenger of Punjab Mail.
 
 Another passenger, Mohan Pal, said, “Twice I have seen the elevator and escalator not working. I hope that this situation does not continue.”
 
 Soon, Itarsi and Jabalpur railway stations of the West Central Railway (WCR) will also get elevators on every platform to ease movement, a source said. Notably, this facility is not yet available at Habibganj railway station — a model station of the Indian Railways.
 
