Even as organic farming is gaining ground, it is not without challenges. It not only needs patience and perseverance by the farmers, but also a lot of support from the consumers as well as the government to continue the trend. Rashmi Mategaonkar Marpakwar, a lecturer from SB City college and research scholar at Nagpur University, conducted a research titled ‘A study of the economic aspects of increasing production level by organic farming in Nagpur district’ for her doctorate thesis under the guidance of T Kalyani, former vice-principal and head of commerce department of LAD & SRP College for Women. Marpakwar claims that organic farming is profitable only after a farmer has grown the crops for at least 6-7 years. The production varies from crop to crop, she said. Excerpts from an interview... Q. What made you take up organic farming as a research subject being a student of commerce? A. No farmer would adopt any technology unless he sees some financial benefits. I always felt that the green revolution did more harm than good to the farmers. It destroyed fertility of the soil, put a lot of harmful elements into the food cycle, and hence, was not sustainable. So, I thought of studying the positive aspects, especially production and profitability of organic farming. Q. What was your study area and how many farmers did you interact with for research? A. My study was restricted just to Nagpur district and farmers were mainly from Katol, Kalmeshwar, Umred, Saoner and Parseoni talukas. The study involved 150 organic farmers and 50 convention (chemical) farmers. I divided the crops into four categories — orange, traditional ones like wheat, vegetables and floriculture. Q. What is your biggest finding? A. A farmer has to be very patient. He doesn’t begin to get profit until about 5-7 years of continuous cultivation. There is an increase of 30-40% in production after this period which makes farming profitable. But unfortunately, neither conventional nor organic farmers are satisfied with agriculture. They don’t want their sons to be farmers. The indicator of profitability is a rise in their living standards. Q. Do you see organic farming as a good tool for profitable agriculture? A. Yes, farmers who have been at least for five years into organic cultivation are very hopeful and want to continue. However, farmers in their 1-5 years of organic farming were in a big dilemma. Q. What are the main challenges? A. Conversion time from chemical or non-organic farming to organic is very big. People lose patience in between. Reduction in production in starting years affects their thinking. There is no dedicated market for organic produce and the farmers do not get the desired price as there is no certification. The farmer is deprived of various advantages like subsidy on various agricultural inputs. All material are bought and sold on faith and hence, consumers bargain a lot. I personally feel that those who can afford should not question farmers and buy the produce directly from them. Q. What are the biggest advantages of organic farming? A. Organic farming reduces the input cost, increases fertility of soil and increases production compared to conventional farming. Above all, it generates safe and healthy food as against convention food full of pesticide residue, which is causing cancers of various types in younger age. Q. What is your suggestion to the government for promoting it? A. I feel that organic farming should be taken up as a government campaign like ‘Make in India’. Conversion is not an easy and simple process. Hence, farmers should be given incentives for taking up organic farming.