NEW DELHI: June 28, 2016 is a day that will be remembered with much pain by the England football team and their supporters. On this day, they were dumped out of the Euro 2016 after losing to Iceland. The pain was quite akin to a visit to the dentist to have one of your teeth pulled out. Can we expect anything less from the then assistant manager and present coach of the Iceland football team,   who is also a dentist?

  might have walked away with the cup in France but it was the Iceland team which won the hearts of football fans around the globe with their stupendous run to the quarterfinals. 
 
 For a nation whose population is only 329,000 and for whom football is only a 'summer past-time,' going toe-to-toe with the best was an incredible achievement. "In Iceland, football is only a summer sport. In winters, the kids prefer to play indoor sports like basketball. We have employed qualified coaches at every level. You can be playing football in a village with only 1,000 inhabitants but the coach will be at par with the Icelandic champion side in domestic football. However, I am not sure any other nation can replicate our plan 100 per cent,"  , who's team has been nominated for the 2017 Laureus Breakthrough of the Year award, told TOI from Reykjavik on Friday.
 
 Till 2012, Iceland were ranked a lowly 131 in the   but are now up to 25 after their incredible run in France last summer. India would like to take hope from a nation like Iceland as they look to progress in world football.
 
 "India should hire a good coach like me!" Hallgrímsson said jokingly. "But seriously, for a country like India or even China will such huge population, the roadmap to progress should be developing the game at the grassroot level. They should look to bring home better coaches and develop the game from the bottom up," he added.
 
 "There is an amateur feel to Iceland football. There are very few full-time coaches. These days I am almost full-time but I still try to see patients a couple of days a week. It is always good to have an alternative profession to fall back on if I get sacked as a coach!" Hallgrímsson said.
 
 One of the lasting memories of Euro 2016 was the slow 'Viking' clap of the Iceland fans. "Iceland fans were unique. Unlike fans of other nations, we had mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters cheering our team which gave a personal feel to our players. The Viking clap is done regularly in matches back in Iceland," Hallgrímsson, whose next aim is qualifying for the 2018 World Cup, said.
 
