In the latest episode of  , Dadi scolds Pinky for trying to ruin the happiness of her own family. While they are talking about the letter,   enters which makes Dadi change the topic. Bhavya tells her plan to Gauri, who is sure she'd be able to handle the situation well. 
 
 Omkara asks Gauri if there is something that is bothering her. She tells him if he can recall something. Om says he cannot think of anything. Gauri tells him to leave it at that, then. Bhavya finds Rudra taking out a military dress from the cupboard. He tells her that it is for their mission tonight. Bhavya feels he'd look funny in the outfit. Rudra tells her it is a joke and he's not serious about wearing it. 
  
 Dadi calls the entire Oberoi family for a photoshoot. For the same, Jhanvi gives clothes to Tej and asks him to pretend to be himself for a while. Svetlana protests initially but eventually agrees. Tej comes downstairs and hugs Dadi. He stands by Jhanvi's side, which makes Svetlana jealous. Just then,   informs them that Anika might take a little time to come, as Sahil is unwell and she has gone to see him. 
  
 Svetlana then asks Tej to distract the family, so she could accomplish her mission. Tej does that and signals Bhavya to follow Svetlana. Shivaay switches off the light and this makes Svetlana think of going to the secret room. While the Oberois have their eyes on her, Svetlana discovers that the key she has in her hands is duplicate. 
 
  
  
 She is furious and goes back to her room. Tej comes there and asks her if she could complete the mission. She hits Tej with a rod and blames him for leaking her plan. The Oberois realize how their plan failed to work. While trying to know what went wrong, Bhavya spots the broken key and realizes Svetlana has discovered their lie. 
  
 Next day, Om is going to his exhibition when Shivaay asks him if he has invited Gauri. He tells him he hasn't, and Shivaay insists he should. Even though Om leaves without talking to Gauri, Shivaay tries to convince her to go. He asks her to wear her finest dress for the occasion. 
  
 Dadi is worried for Tej and asks Shakti to look after him. Pinky requests Dadi to take permission from Shivaay as she is keen to do a function for both Anika and Shivaay. She wants to gain the trust of her son back. Dadi tells her she will try speaking to Shivaay about it. 
  
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Ishqbaaz. 
 
 
 
  
 
