BENGALURU: The   high court on Friday stayed the investigation and proceedings in two FIRs registered against former chief minister BS   by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in the Shivaram Karanth Layout controversy. Justice  , who dictated the order for close to seven hours over two days, rejected the ACB's contention.

 It's alleged that Yeddyurappa, as chief minister in 2010, had conspired with officials of the Bangalore Development Authority and urban development department to denotify land acquired to form Dr K Shivaram Karanth Layout.
 
 The HC said the ac cused have right to a fair investigation and probe agencies act as guardi ans of citizens' liberty .According to the court, what raised the needle of suspicion was the ACB's delay in registering FIRs, the pick-and-choose method adopted by the agency and a slow preliminary inquiry . The HC questioned ACB over delay in registering FIRs (nine weeks from the date of filing the complaint, which breaches the six-week ceiling set by the apex court in special circumstances), probe methods and slow inquiry .
 
 The court observed that the station house diary entries made during the preliminary inquiries on June 19 and July 18 this year show that the agency collected documents from the BDA and the urban development department. It said the documents were, in fact, attached to the complaint and there was no explanation why the agency took three weeks to register FIR on August 10.
 
 The court said loss to the exche quer because of Yeddyurappa's decision to ask the BDA to drop 257.2 acres from the final notification “looks to be a myth" since the agency didn't act upon the recommendation. Also, the project did not materialize as the preliminary notification issued in December 2008 was quashed by the high court in 2014-15 on grounds of delay .
 
 The court noted there was no allegation about misuse of property against Yeddyurappa in the complaint to attract the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The ACB's contentions -maintainability of petition, the bar contained under Article 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and the theory that the two FIRs related to two independent instances -have been rejected.
 
