HYDERABAD: Call it a paradox if you will, but the  , which enjoys the rare distinction of being the biggest contributor of judges to the Supreme Court, is itself facing a severe crunch of judges back home.

 In fact, in the last two decades, the Hyderabad HC has sent nearly two dozen judges to the Supreme Court from its corridors. These include Justices S B Majumdar, Yogeswar Dayal, PV Reddy, SSM Quadri, S B Sinha, A R Lakshmanan, Sudarsan Reddy, Madan B Lokur, GS Singhwi, PC Ghosh, Anil Ramesh Dave, all of whom worked here before being elevated to the apex court. There are also three sons of the soil, Justice J Chalameswar, Justice N V Ramana and Justice L Nageswara Rao, who rose from this HC and are currently serving as sitting judges of the SC.
 
 But for a HC whose judges have gone on to the apex court, deciding the affairs of the whole judiciary of the nation, the high court today is pleading for the vacancies of judges to be filled up.
 
 Though Hyderabad HC has a sanctioned strength of 61 judges, it has on its rolls only 27 judges. Of these, three are from other states. The situation is set to worsen in another couple of months with two judges Justice   and Justice Anis along with Justice  , who is serving in the Madras HC, all set to retire, pushing up the num ber of vacancies further.
 
 This means that even if all the vacancies are filled up on a war footing, each judge will have to carry on his shoulders the burden of about 5,000 cases from the past, apart from the constant inflow of cases.
 
 The HC has also been without a regular chief justice for over 26 months now after the retirement of  .Though Justice Dilip Bhosale worked here for one year, his stint too was as Acting CJ. He passed on the baton to Justice Ramesh Ranganathan, who assumed charge as the Acting CJ on August 1, 2016, and will be completing one year on July 31, 2017.
 
 With the authorities failing to fill up vacancies of judges, the number of cases have only been piling up, as the overburdened judges struggle to keep pace. While nearly 2.5 lakh cases were pending around the same time last ye ar, the number has shot past 3.2 lakh cases now.
 
 The result: All the judges have their hands more than full. Starting with Acting CJ Ramesh Ranganathan, whose work starts everyday sharp at 10.30 am (not counting the hours of work these judges put in at home), with the first 15 minutes, on an average, being exhausted on convincing the huge battery of lawyers urging him to take up their cases on priority .
 
 Justice Ramesh too indirectly concedes that there is a problem. As anyone familiar with the first court (CJ's court) will tell you his oft-repeated lines: “Forget for a moment that you are a lawyer for one single party. Assume yourself in my position and decide what to do? Or, you discuss among the members of the Bar and give us suggestions how to deal with this situation? I am ready to accommodate any constructive idea.“
 
 So who is responsible for the deteriorating state of affairs? In May 2016, the Collegium recommended the names of 10 persons (six from the Bar and four from the service) for appointment as judges of this court.
 
 After seven months, the names of those from the service ranks alone got cleared and they assumed office in January 2017. But the fate of the six names from the Bar is still unknown.
 
 In fact, Satyam Reddy , a senior advocate, had filed a PIL in the high court last year seeking judicial intervention on the high number of vacancies but the matter was dismissed by a bench a year ago on the grounds that the first bench of the SC, headed by the Chief Justice of India, had already assured full attention to the problem of huge vacancies.
 
 But nothing has happened so far, leaving both, litigants and their lawyers bewildered and worried. The only question that lingers in their minds is “when will justice be delivered to this temple of justice?“
 
