THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The word secularism is losing its meaning and significance in today’s socio-political scenario, said speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, while inaugurating the valedictory event of the birth centenary celebrations of   Vakkom Khader. The programme was organized by INA Hero Vakkom Khader National Foundation here on Thursday.

 “It is sad that many in society find it difficult to believe in secularism anymore. Commemoration of martyrs like Vakkom Khader is very much relevant in this context,” said Sreeramakrishnan.
 
 Mentioning Rashid Ahmad Gangohi and Hussein Ahmed Madani, he said that their contribution with regard to preventing division of the country is not known to many of those who belong to the present generation.
 
 “There was false propaganda that the partition of the country is the responsibility of a group of people. But it was the greed for power of a small group of leaders, who demanded partition of the country in the name of communal issues, which resulted in division. These facts are not known to most people. INA was born out of the sufferings of a generation of people,” said Sreeramakrishnan. He also spoke about the contribution of Subhas Chandra Bose and Captain Lakshmi in the freedom struggle and said that there need to be serious valuation of their struggles in the freedom movement.
 
 Poet B   presented the INA Hero Vakkom Khader National Foundation   to social activist and founder of Jwala Charitable Trust Aswathy Nair, for her contribution to the welfare of the society.Remembering her childhood memories on the activities of INA, B   said that she along with her sister Hridayakumari used to distribute INA pamphlets in the school campus, which were banned during those days.
 
 “These activities were our contribution for INA. It was people like Khader in INA who were an inspiration for us,” said Sugathakumari.
 
 General secretary of the foundation MM Iqbal and chairman of Confederation of Tourism Industry E M Najeeb were also present at the event.
 
 
