KOLKATA: A woman selling tea on   in Kolkata and a flower seller on nearby Park Street had a shock when income-tax officials came asking about 60 grams of   worth Rs 3.5 lakh that each of them were supposed to have bought on November 9.
 
  The two are among tens of unsuspecting people, mostly from the lower strata of society, whose details city jewellers have used to help launder demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes by using back-dated bills and splitting bills into small amounts to avoid PAN card requirement, a senior   official said.
  
  In a first, the jewellers purchased data pertaining specifically to lower strata of the society from telemarketing companies because, a city jeweller told interrogators, such people “do not have the time and money” to contest" any claims, the I-T official said.
  
  This is one of the several “innovative tricks” used by shopkeepers, traders and some cash hoarders to overcome the   drive that Prime Minister   launched almost two months ago to crack down on black money. In fact, investigating officials on money trail said they were awestruck by the ingenuity on display.
  
  Income Tax department has conducted at least 70 raids in the last 50 days in jewellery shops, transport companies, entry operators' companies, cooperative banks, tea gardens, food processing companies and individual businesses in eastern India.
  
  The total cash seizure has reached around Rs 70 crore while Rs 5.5 crore has been caught in old currency notes.
  
  Here is a rundown on some methods widely used in the eastern parts of India to launder demonetised money, according to I-T investigators:
  
  
 
  Jan Dhan accounts were rampantly used by hoarders to stash unaccounted cash, and that is perhaps why Bengal has recorded the second highest amount of cash deposits in such accounts. I-T officials said some Jan Dhan accounts in the state saw deposits of Rs 58 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore.
  
  
 
  In a specific case, a farmer’s cooperative society in North Bengal deposited Rs 2 crore using the details of 30 farmers, so that no account gives an abnormally inflated figure.
  
  
 
  On November 9, 10 and 11, showrooms of at least three major jewellers reportedly manipulated the system to help money hoarders by making bogus bills of small amounts because PAN details are required for high value transactions.
  
  
 
  The income-tax department is probing at least 40 transport companies across   and northeast India on the suspicion that they have laundered money by making fake freight bills in exchange of old currency notes. According to estimate of the department, around Rs 10 crore has been laundered this way. 
