BHOPAL: Come April and the much-hyped ‘smart parking’ solution would be a reality in the state capital as Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to sublet  .

 Two companies that have tie-ups with   are in the fray, said BMC parking in-charge Rahul Singh. While the new tender would result in increase in parking fee across the city, BMC officials claim that it would ensure better and safer parking zones.
 
 Singh said, “60 locations across the city would be sublet under the smart city parking. Moreover, on-road and off-road parking would have different rates.”
 
 For proof of concept, two locations — one at Bittan Market and the other in MP Nagar Zone I — have been given to the two bidders. State-of-the-art sensors, parking meters, dash boards and CCTV surveillance cameras would be used.
 
 Assessment of parking based on short and long term needs is being finalised by the BMC. As regards the walled city where there is paucity of parking space, some areas may be legalised for on-street parking. 
 
 Most parking spaces cannot take more than 25 cars in the old city area, forcing people to park their vehicles on the road, leading to bottlenecks. After analysing proof of concept, BMC is expected to roll-out parking facilities on PPP mode from April.
 
 New Market, Bittan Market and 10 No. Market are other problematic areas of the city where circulation and parking are critical.
 
 New proposal also sets the parameters for a unified city-wide parking solution. It would offer cashless transactions and limit the number of people employed on the ground. A centralised web-based application would also be developed for vehicle owners to find or book parking space on demand. Private operator would also coordinate with local police. Penalisation would not necessarily mean impounding a vehicle. Surveillance would detect violators who would be sent e-challans.
 
  It would perhaps stop pilferage in the system because of which civic body loses crores annually. Every year, BMC generates a revenue of Rs 23 lakh from parking. The expenditure in salaries for those deployed in parking lots is about Rs11 lakh. Now, through this agreement, BMC might earn a guaranteed minimum Rs 25 lakh per month.
 
