As the clock struck nine,   walked out to the pitch along with Bangladesh captain   for the toss. The barely 200-odd folks in the stadium, erupted with joy when they heard   declare: “India has won the toss and elected to bat.” Half-an-hour later when the Indian openers walked in to bat, it still looked like the HCA officials and media personnel outnumbered the spectators. Three balls later, when   was dismissed by Taskin Ahmed, the crowd, which wasn’t making too much noise in the first place, fell even more silent. As   and   tried to hold fort, seeing off the spirited opening spell by the Bangladeshi bolwers, it looked like the first day of this historic one-off test match could use a dose of adrenaline. 
 And that’s when the first of the 4,000-odd school students trooped in to the West pavilion. The atmosphere began to change almost instantly, as school boy chants of ‘East or West, India is the best’ began to reverberate across the stadium. There was a buzz in the air finally, as the students’ unbridled joy of getting to watch their favourite cricketers in action on what would have been an otherwise boring day at school, spilled over into the stadium. “I’m super-duper excited to be here as this is the first time I’m watching a test match live. Virat Kohli is my favourite and I hope he scores a 100,” said Rahul Reddy, a Class VIII student. Armed with placards and posters, flags and face paint, the kids cheered for Team India till their voices turned hoarse. And, they didn’t seem to mind the harsh February sun either. “This is so much better than PT period on the school field,” said Slok, a sixth-grader, grinning.
 
 
 
 Even though   and MS Dhoni were not playing the game, their fans turned up to tell the world that they are still loved and missed. While Sudhir Kumar Chaudhary had ‘Miss you Tendulkar’ painted on chest (see inset), fans waving placards that screamed ‘WE MISS YOU MS DHONI’ were also spotted in the stands. However, the most endearing was this ‘love letter’ to Kohli by a self-confessed ‘VK-holic’.
  
 
 
 Though they were clearly outnumbered by Team India fans, Bangladesh’s small but strong team of supporters sure made their presence felt, cheering every time an Indian wicket fell, waving their flags and breaking into a jig every chance they got. 
 
 
 
