Lion's roar went unheard at the Oscars but pint-sized, Mumbai-based   who played the lead role, stole everyone's hearts with that disarming smile and a Simba-like yell from Lion King. 

 Sunny's ride from a Kalina slum to the red carpet of the   almost mirrors the miraculous journey of Saroo Brierley, whose memoir A Long Way Home inspired the film, Lion. It tells the tale of a five-year-old boy, separated from his mother and siblings at five when he accidentally boarded a train from Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh and arrived on the alien streets of Calcutta. Lost and alone, he found his way around people and places before being placed in an orphanage and adopted by a couple in Australia. That was 1986. Twenty years later, piggybacking on digital technology, he managed to retrace his roots and find his original family.
 
 Sunny, who plays little Saroo, lived in a bylane of Kunchi Kurve Nagar in Kalina overrun by slums and was a student of the Air India Model School when Hollywood came calling. Living in a cramped house with a family of 30 including parents and two siblings, movies until then meant Bollywood entertainers like Singham, which he has seen several times.
 
 Picked out from hundreds of hopefuls, the eight-year-old was soon thrust into an acting sojourn spanning Calcutta, Bhopal and Tasmania with Nicole Kidman as co-actor and Dev Patel as friend.
 
 Two years on, he has been breaking out on every coveted stage, charming past presidents Clinton and Obama and flexing muscles with  .
 
 While Sunny's father Dilip, a cleaner at the airport, quit his job two years ago to be by his son through his whirlwind ride, Sunny's family back in Kalina was up at the crack of dawn on Monday as friends and neighbours poured in and formed a cheerleader ring before the television set.
 
 Looking dapper in a black and white tuxedo paired with green and yellow sneakers on the big night, Sunny owned the Oscars red carpet before being whisked into the Dolby Theatre. But not without making a quick call to his mother. “How handsome is he looking?” squealed his mother Vasu, overwhelmed by the feverish interest in her son. “I can’t believe how smart my son has turned out and how he is being celebrated!”
 
 Vasu was probably referring to her son’s graduation from using sign language that his director Garth Davis had devised for him during the shoot to yelling “Lemonheads, Mikes & Ikes” when the Academy show host Jimmy Kimmel decided to play Rafiki and hoisted Sunny ‘Simba’ Pawar up in the air.
 
 With tears and smiles, hoots and claps, the family back home watched every moment of their little hero's walk of fame on the small screen. "But we haven't seen the film yet," said his uncle Ajay. "The director, we're told will be organising tickets for us and we are waiting for Sunny to return in the first week of March so that we can all watch and celebrate together."
 
 With their faith pinned to his stars, the family wants Sunny to return to his studies after the dust settles down. His uncle Ajay Pawar said, "If he's earned so much fame at this age, he will surely go far. For now, we hope that the state will recognise how he's made our country proud."
 
