JALANDHAR: After Punjab debacle, NRI supporters of   (AAP) have started an online petition seeking removal of party leaders   Singh and Durgesh Pathak from their positions in the state if they don’t resign on their own. A petition launched on Friday morning by an Australia-based AAP supporters has started gathering steam.

 Titled ‘Arvind Kejriwal, remove Sanjay Singh and Durgesh Pathak from Punjab positions and PAC’, the petition has been posted at change.org. Addressed to AAP convener  , it reads that after the debacle in Punjab, both Sanjay and Durgesh should have resigned and taken the responsibility for the debacle, but that did not happen.
 
 “All volunteers want Sanjay Singh and Durgesh Pathak, who were in-charge of the party in Punjab, to resign or to be removed from the positions immediately,” it reads. “With this petition, we are appealing to Arvind Kejriwal, please listen to the voice of all volunteers of Punjab and overseas as well and remove Sanjay Singh and Durgesh Pathak from their positions because volunteers have lost faith in them. Also, we don’t want leaders from Delhi in Punjab unless they are requested by Punjab leaders,” reads the petition which has been initiated by Gurpreet Gill. 
 
 Others have started signing it and venting out ire against the duo, who have been calling shots in Punjab before the elections and played crucial role in all the decisions. 
 
 “We want the Punjab leadership to be empowered in Punjab,” wrote   from Hamilton, New Zealand. “Sanjay Singh has brought down the reputation and winn-ability of AAP in Punjab and entire India. He chose tainted, ineligible and corrupt candidates over honest and capable ones, He should be removed to save AAP from future defeats,” wrote Australia-based Bhavjit Singh, an ardent AAP supporter. Party supporters are also levelling allegations of corruption in ticket allotment.
 
 Tasbir Singh from Glasgow in Scotland has given the reason for signing the petition, saying: “They ignored the state leaders.” Dubai-based Paramvir Singh has written: “These guys want all power in their hands which is not acceptable. Let people of Punjab decide the policy of Punjab. There are so many persons in Punjab who can do good for Punjab.”
 
 Started with a single signature on Friday morning, the petition gathered over 500 signatures by evening.
 
