CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court stated on Tuesday that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) did not intend to arrest   treasurer Motilal   who is accused of   in relation to the case of plot allotment to Associated Journal Limited (AJL) in Panchkula.

 “It appears there is no intention to arrest him in this case. Therefore, prayer for interim relief not been taken at this stage,” observed the HC. These observations came from a division bench comprising Chief Justice Shiavax Jal Vazifdar and Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, while hearing the counsel for Vora, seeking direction for stay on his arrest.
 
 The court has also gave liberty to the petitioner to file an application, in case any attempt was made to arrest him. The case would now come up for hearing on July 19.
 
 Enforcement directorate (ED) is yet to file its reply on the contentions raised by the veteran congress leader in his petition.
 
 In his plea, Vora has been arguing that case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) couldn’t be registered against him because there was no criminal activity on his part. According to him, the plot was restored by the state and AJL had made payment as per the fee sought by the state authorities for restoration charges.
 
 Appearing for Vora, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and R S Cheema have been arguing that he has been unnecessary harassed for extraneous reasons and was interrogated by ED for seven long hours continuously despite the fact that he was extremely unwell.
 
 The 86-year-old veteran, who was recently questioned by ED along with former Haryana chief minister   Hooda, is chairman-cum-managing director of AJL. Founded by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, AJL is reportedly controlled by senior Congress leaders, including Gandhi family, through Young India Ltd.
 
 On July 15, 2016, ED had registered Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in relation to the controversy and in October 2016, the agency had issued notice to Vora regarding investigation of the case. ED suspects that Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) abused its discretionary powers to grant out-of-turn favours, illegal extensions and concessions to AJL during Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress regime in Haryana.
 
 The entire controversy pertains to an institutional plot no C-17 in Sector-6 of Panchkula, which was allotted by Huda to AJL in 1982, but was resumed in 1992, as no construction was done on it for 10 years. The appeal and revision filed by AJL against resumption of plot were also dismissed by administrator Huda and financial commissioner, town and country planning department Haryana in 1995 and 1996 respectively. However, when Hooda become chief minister in 2005, he had allowed re-allotment of the plot to AJL.
 
