Mumbai: The   has said that it is open to the proposal of setting up a “bad bank” to take over non-performing assets of lenders. A   is an institutional structure created to acquire   of banks so that lenders can focus on their business and the process of recovery NPAs gets focused attention.

 The central bank on Wednesday also announced the setting up of a an “enforcement department” to tighten regulation of banks and an inter-disciplinary standing committee on cyber security to tackle online fraudsters.
 
 The RBI’s decision to consider this proposal is significant given that this was mooted first in the Economic Survey which called for a a public sector asset rehabilitation agency (PARA) that could be funded by either government securities, equity infusion from the private sector, or by using the central bank’s excess capital.
 
 “I think we have to remain open to all solutions at this point, because I think the problem is quite large. I don’t think a bad bank just by itself will necessarily work. I think it has to be designed right. The big piece of the problem is—can you get banks to sell the assets at the right price to ARCs and private investors who want to come in?” said Viral Acharya, newly-appointed deputy governor. He added that if designed right it is something that could help. Another deputy governor N S Vishwanathan said that the central bank will have to take a call but there was no dogmatic view either way.
 
 On the creation of an enforcement department, the RBI said that the enforcement department will deal with cases of non-compliance with regulations noticed either through the surveillance process or otherwise. “Currently, in the RBI there is a clear demarcation of the regulatory and surveillance functions. With a view to developing a sound framework and process for enforcement action, it has been decided to establish a separate enforcement department. Necessary steps have been initiated in this regard and the new department will start functioning from April 1, 2017,” the central bank said.
 
 At present each department of the central bank takes care of the enforcement process in the case of non-compliance. With the creation of a centralized department, the central bank will be in a better position to take follow-up action and identify weak links in bank.
 
 The cyber security panel was recommended by an internal panel headed by Meena Hemachandra, executive director, RBI. Based on the panel’s r recommendations, the RBI had issued guidelines to banks on June 2 last year mandating cyber security preparedness for addressing cyber risks. “While banks have taken steps to strengthen their defences, the diverse and ingenious nature of recent cyber-attacks necessitates an ongoing review of the cyber security landscape and emerging threats,” the RBI said.
 
 
