KOLHAPUR: At first glance, the ground floor structure in Borbet village, some 60 km south of Kolhapur, would be dismissed as an abandoned old house. It is only when a bell rings and children stream out on the open ground that one realises that it is actually a school. 

 The old structure with tarpaulin sheets acting as window panes, missing doors and fans, an open switch board with loose wires hanging and no toilet facilities is in reality the residential school for 155 students — 99 boys and 56 girls studying from standard I to standard X. 
 
 The state-run ashramshala, or residential school for children from tribal areas, has been operating since 1972 without much change in the facilities. The students, especially in the boys hostel, do not have facility to heat water, the vegetables and grains are stored without cold storage for two weeks. 
 
 “The meal is half cooked and the chapatis and rice are not edible. The warden always gives us excuses that they have not received funds and provisions from the government,” said one of the students in the residential school.
 
 Another student said the rooms in the boys hostels are not provided with proper electricity or lights. They do not have soaps, detergents, toothpaste or even a toilet. The boys are compelled to relieve themselves in the open in the absence of toilet facility. The girls hostel, in comparison, is better equipped with toilets and proper lights. 
 
 “There are no doors or windows for many rooms. There is an open electricity switch board inside hostel. Anything can happen if it is not fixed, there are children as young as six-year-old living here. We have to constantly watch over their movements.” 
 
 According to the students, there are no mattresses for any student. All they have got are small size athletics mats to lay on the floor to sleep on. Five to six students occupy a small, dingy room. Despite the odd, the school has been reporting 100% pass out rate in the standard X examinations.
 
 The residential school has three permanent teachers and one warden each for the boys and girls hostels. All the three permanent teachers, who teach in the primary section, also reside on the premises. Four more posts of teachers for the primary section and five sanctioned posts for teachers of the secondary school have been given to professors coming in on clock hour basis. 
 
 When asked, S S Kakade, primary teacher from the ashramshala, admitted that the school does have a “few problems when it comes to accommodation and the facilities provided. The warden is responsible for maintaining the hostels.” 
 
 K P Kanade, warden of the boys hostel, told TOI, “We are not given ample funds and provisions by the state government. We are running the school on the basis of what we are getting from the authorities. When we are supposed to give students Parachute oil, we are provided with some duplicate oil, or in case of toothpaste, we are provided with tooth powder. Few days back, we got some tooth powder from an unknown company. After using it, students had complained of irritation in their mouth.” 
 
 He claimed that they often have to shell out money from their own pockets to make sure routine is not disturbed. “Clearing of bills sometimes takes many months, demotivating the teachers, who have to chip in.” 
 
 R R Sonkawade from the Ghodegaon project office of the tribal development commissionerate, who is the officer for the Borbet ashramshala, claimed he did not know about the situation at the schol. 
 
 “It is the warden’s responsibility to let us know their requirements and the problems related to the school. We were not communicated properly. In fact, the communication from the warden has been found to be inefficient and an inquiry will be conductedin the matter,” he said.
 
 He added that the school will be asked to immediately install a fibre toilet for the students from school management committee fund (SMC) to prevent open defecation. 
 
 When asked if the state government is failing to meet demands from the schools, Sonkawade said the schools have to make sure their demands reach us. The warden and teachers play an important role in it. He added that a review of all complaints will be taken in the next few days and the school would be provided with all the facilities. 
 
