NEW DELHI: Senior   leader  , who's 
  , said today he will only stay if the party cracks the whip on corruption and if decision-making within becomes more democratic rather than top down. 

 "There should be zero tolerance against corruption," Vishwas told timesofindia.com. 
 
 This isn't the first time the senior AAP leader has talked about what he perceives as the party leadership being soft on corruption. Last month, in a 
  in Delhi for trying to protect its own allegedly corrupt party members.
 
 "If in Delhi you form a government on the anti-corruption plank with the promise of freedom from corruption and fall silent and try to protect your own people when they come under the scanner, you will be questioned by people," Vishwas said in the video.
 
 In fact, Vishwas spoke to timesofindia.com about that video as well. Some party members want him to apologise for saying what he did on the video and others want him to take it off of social media. But he's not having any of that.
 
 "(I) will not say sorry for it. Nobody asked to take it off, but enough hints were given," he said, adding that it would be another condition for staying with the  .
 
 There's been turmoil building up in the party for a while now. AAP's extremely poor performance in the Punjab and Goa Assembly elections, its stunningly poor showing in a Delhi bypoll and 
  have made matters come to a head. Accusations have been hurled, members have quit and AAP appears rudderless. 
 
 AAP chief Kejriwal and some other leaders are said to have lost touch with voters and of living in a bubble. Kejriwal himself has been accused of cultivating a cult of personality. In March, when an AAP leader quit to join the party, he mentioned some of these very reasons for doing so.
 
 "I felt suffocated. The ministers never take our calls.   and   never answer our calls," alleged Bawana MLA Ved Prakash.
 
  This is where Vishwas's final demand comes in. He wants a more democratic party structure with easy access to the top leadership.
 
 "Any decision affecting workers should be taken after consulting them. The practice of some biggies sitting together and taking such calls should be done away with," he said unequivocally.
 
  
  after another member   on Sunday accused him of "working for the BJP-RSS". Vishwas was livid at this accusation.
 
 At a meeting yesterday, he 
  , who later quit from the party's political affairs committee. Kejriwal, who has often called Vishwas "family", is now trying to convince him to stay.
 
 "Kumar is upset, but I am sure we will convince him. He is an integral part of our movement," Kejriwal said after emerging from the meeting yesterday.
 
 The two leaders are expected to meet this morning as well. And Vishwas plans to present to Kejriwal his conditions for staying on in the party.
 
 
