PUNE: Four persons were injured on   on Wednesday evening when a woman lost control of her car and crashed into the towing van of the traffic police. 

 The injured included two women - one who rammed her car into the towing vehicle and the other is the wife of a motorcyclist whose two-wheeler was being towed away from the no-parking zone. Two men working on the towing vehicle were also injured.
 
 All of them sustained injuries in their legs. They are being treated in a private hospital on   Road, Deccan Gymkhana police said. 
 
 The woman driver claimed that she lost control of the wheel after she felt giddy. She sustained a minor injury.
 
 Sandhya Kale, the traffic police constable who had a narrow escape, told TOI that the incident occurred around 5pm on Wednesday when the towing vehicle was hauling motorcycles from the no-parking zone on the Fergusson College Road. 
 
  "I had stopped a tempo along the road opposite the main gate of Fergusson College and turned back to get the receipt book, when a speeding car crashed into the rear of the towing van, a few inches from me." 
 
 Before crashing into the vehicle, the car had knocked down Kiran Chavare and  , who were standing next to her for paying fine. "The car stopped after hitting Nikhil Bhosale and Anil Nalawade, who were working for the towing vehicle," she said.
 
 Chavare was paying the fine while her husband and son stood near the motorcycle. "The car came at high speed and knocked down my wife and she sustained fracture in her leg. My son and I had a narrow escape," said  , the husband of the injured woman.
 
 "A large number of onlookers gathered at the spot immediately after the accident, but none of them came forward to help the injured," Kale said.
 
 She said that the injured were rushed to the hospital in auto rickshaws.
 
 The Deccan Gymkhana police have booked the woman under sections 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
 When contacted, a doctor from the hospital said all the four had sustained fractures in their legs. "Their condition is out of danger," he said.
 
