 (DM) is a heterogeneous group of metabolic disorders characterised by   ( ). The type of DM needs to be ascertained so that a proper treatment for the specific type of DM can be initiated as also associated disorders be detected early. The common symptoms include increased urination, increased thirst and weight loss. A diagnosis can be confirmed by an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) and/or HbA1c. The complications of DM can be acute (developing over hours to days) and chronic (weeks to months).The acute complications include Diabetes Ketoacidosis and Hyperosmolar syndrome for which admission to the hospital is needed. The chronic complications are microvascular – neuropathy (damage to nerves), retinopathy (involvement of retina of eye), nephropathy (kidney disease) and macrovascular -cardiovascular (heart), cerebrovascular (brain) and peripheral vascular disease (blood vessels of extremities). The treatment includes Medical nutrition therapy (diet modifications), increase in physical activity with drugs-including oral, injectable and insulin therapy individualised for the patient. Diet planning is based on the Body Mass Index (BMI) and the target weight of the patient. It should provide all essential macro and micronutrients. The physical activity depends on the health status and should be discussed with the treating doctor. The goals of treatment vary from patient to patient depending on a lot of factors including age and other diseases that the patient has. Control of blood glucose levels, hypertension (blood pressure), lipids (cholesterol levels) and cessation of smoking can delay the onset and/or retard the progression of many complications .The participation of the patient in his treatment plan is paramount in that they have to follow the advice of the treating doctor, be compliant with medications, monitor and respond to blood glucose levels at home and have a regular follow up with the doctor for clinical examination and specific investigations to be done at regular intervals.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
