MUMBAI: The  , the   , is all set to table its budget for the 2017-18   on Wednesday .This year's budget is likely to be significantly smaller compared to last year's Rs 37,052 crore   , sources say .

 After TOI spoke to people across the city asking them about their expectations, it found that a major grouse is that despite paying heavy taxes to the BMC, civic services continue to be poor. The citizens' wish list includes an upgrade of municipal schools and hospitals, and higher allocation for solid waste management. People say they hope the BMC allocates money for projects that are easy to implement, instead of coming up with projects that never see the light of day , leading to a lapse of funds.
 
 King Circle resident Nikhil Desai said the condition of civic hospitals all over Mumbai appears to be deteriorating. “Enough funds need to be allocated to upgrade civic hospitals. Their condition is so pathetic that one does not feel like visiting. Lack of staff adds to the woes,“ said Desai.“The BMC collects taxes from us, but unfortunately we don't seem to be getting any benefits.“
 
 Bandra resident   pointed out that there is a need to improve the condition of municipal schools. “Most municipal schools today need to be improved. Especially toilets, which are unhygienic in most such schools. Special attention needs to be given in the budget to these aspects, and especially to improve the condition of girls' toilets,“ said Kulkarni. “I hope the BMC does not increase any taxes, given that it has parked large amounts of money in fixed deposits,“ said Kulkarni.
 
 Malabar Hill resident   said greater al location needs to be made for projects to be undertaken at the ward level. “A higher allocation for wards would ensure smoother local area development. Decent allocation also needs to be made for dry waste collection, which at present is not very efficient in the city.“ Dadar resident Ashok Rawat said sufficient allocation needs to be made for public open spaces to be developed in a more environment-friendly manner. “We also wish to see a definite plan on how the civic body plans to manage ever-increasing waste in the city.“
 
