: HRD Alert - India, a   of Human Rights Defenders has issued an alert expressing serious concern over security of Vyapam scam whistleblower Ashish Chaturvedi from   police.

 This NGO endeavours to initiate actions on behalf of Human Rights Defenders under threat or with security concerns and is also a platform to extend solidarity and assistance to whistleblowers in trouble or at risk.
 
 In a letter to Srinivasa Kammath, human Rights Defenders & Deputy Registrar, National Human Rights Commission, Henri Tiphagne the
 National Working Secretary has cited concern regarding the police surveillance on Chaturvedi. Ashish Chaturvedi is a RTI/Social Activist and a well known Whistle Blower of the multi-crore Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) scam, popularly known as “VYAPAM”.
 
 He has used the Right to Information Act extensively to expose the corruption made by the Madhya Pradesh Government in Vyapam. He had been attacked and threatened several times and he had asked for protection from the court. The court had allowed him a Personal Security Officer (PSO). 
 
 HRD-Alert India has categorically named two senior officials of Gwalior police including an IPS officer as "Perpetrators"
  
 Over the period of investigation of “VYAPAM” matter, where Chaturvedi is one of the main witness, had received and is still receiving threats, claims the NGO.
 
 Most of the threats have been communicated to the PSO Guards by Chaturvedi.
 
 "Even the CBI Inspector who is investigating the Crime No. 285/14 (Where Chaturvedi is the complainant and in which names of some influential people have come up), was also threatened over phone." NGO added.
 
 PSO Guard, who has been assigned to look after the safety and security of the Chaturvedi has been provided with a video camera for recording his movements and activities. 
  
 Chaturvedi has been illegally and with mala-fide intentions, been kept under around the clock surveillance by video graphing his actions and movements, which is a complete violation of his fundamental right to privacy as provided by the Constitution of India.
  
 Chaturvedi has made several complaints to the competent authorities and apprised them about the video graphing and monitoring by the PSO guard but no actions has been taken yet.
  
 Although the camcorder was issued for the purposes of safety and security of Chaturvedi, however, there were several incidents where Chaturvedi was attacked by some miscreants but the recording of such incident was not done by the PSO guard.
  
 Chaturvedi’s normal life has been harmed and his social image has been damaged by such act. It has not only affected his social life, but his right to privacy and right to move freely has been sacrificed and breached by such act. This holds much greater importance after the recent Supreme Court’s 9 member bench ruling that privacy is a fundamental right.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
