NEW DELHI: A united display of resentment by city   has prompted the Bar Council of India to withdraw the stringent suggestions it had made to the   on lawyers who went on   or abstained from court work.

 Hundreds of lawyers protesting outside the office of   chairman Manan Kumar Mishra on Thursday managed to extract an assurance from him. Mishra later drafted a letter to the law commission, which stated: “Today, there was a   by members of the coordination committee on the premises of BCI... in my opinion, the matter requires reconsideration by BCI and the recommendation regarding the aforementioned points are hereby withdrawn (sic).”
 
 BCI had earlier recommended that striking lawyers be fined and even debarred.
 
 In a show of unity, members of the six district bar associations gathered outside BCI office at noon. They shouted slogans, such as “lawyers unity zindabad” and “Manan Mishra murdabad”. They also burned the effigy of the BCI chairman. A large number of policemen was deployed to ensure that the matter didn’t go out of hand. 
 
 Mishra later told TOI that BCI hadn’t ignored the lawyers’ rights, clarifying that their stance was for and not against the community. “They (lawyers) thought their interests had been ignored, but when I clarified, they were satisfied. The decision (to withdraw the recommendations) was arrived at atfer a meeting with members of the coordination committee of all bar associations,” he said.
 
 Mishra claimed that the law commission had recommended that a separate body be set up to look into disciplinary cases and that it comprise former judges and bureaucrats, but exclude members of the bar. “Neither BCI nor any lawyer would like that to happen and, therefore, we opposed the move,” he said.
 
 Jaiveer Singh Chauhan, spokesperson of the coordination committee of bar associations in Delhi, said after Mishra's assurance, the strike was called off. “We will discuss the future course of action with the law commission. When lawyers go on strike, they do it in public interest. But there can’t be a strike without any reason. We gave BCI six days to reconsider its recommendations. Eventually, we were left with no choice.”
 
 Even as the lawyers protested, the Patiala House court, located just over a kilometre away, wore a deserted look. Several cases had to be adjourned. “There were multiple cases lined up for today but all of them got adjourned,” said Shyam Sunder, a bank representative.
 
 
