Bollywood actor   believes that he’s at a point in his career where he has to break out of that chocolate boy/sidekick mould that has been thrusting itself on him for most of his 18-year career. 

 His Tamil debut film,  , the remake of Mammootty-starrer  , is very much a part of that conscious effort.
 The actor, who is currently shooting in Kochi for Siddique’s directorial which also has Arvind Swami and  , talks to us about his South foray, breaking stereotypes and Bollywood’s obsession with sex comedies.
 
 
 
 It has been an interesting experience. It’s just that it’s a different industry and language, the work pattern is the same. I am getting to work with a nice bunch of people. Siddique is a very experienced director.
 I have also been shooting with Arvind and Amala who have been warm. For me, it’s like working with foreign actors! We have mutual respect and admiration for each other’s work. I have known Arvind socially, so we get along really well. The rest of the team is also very welcoming; it has a bunch of young guys who really enjoy what they are doing.
 
 
 
 I got a random call one day asking if I could be part of the Tamil remake of a Malayalam movie. I then watched Bhaskar the Rascal, and then the person tells me he wants me to play the antagonist. I said OK because I like playing negative roles; it’s different from what people usually identify me with.
 In the film, I play Sanjay, who is the husband of Amala Paul’s character. It’s a mainstream Tamil film and Siddique sir wanted someone who would look like a hero and also perform a negative role. That’s the brief I got.
  The script has been tweaked for the Tamil version, I believe. JD Chakravarthi played my role in Malayalam and he had actually directed me in Darwaza Bandh Rakho. I met him recently at Ram Gopal Varma’s birthday party and I told him that I am working in Siddique’s film. He was glad I was doing it.
 
 
 
 I have played the villain thrice in my career; in fact my second movie Kasoor in 2001 had me in a negative role. I think it’s challenging and different for an actor to play a character with grey shades for a change.
 Honestly, I am not thinking about the repercussions of debuting in South as a villain; I wasn’t thinking 10 steps ahead when I signed the film. I do feel the lines between North and South cinema are becoming blurred, especially with the recent Baahubali mania. 
 Everything is now just merging into Indian cinema, there’s no bifurcation anymore.
 
 
 
 I have been here before — for events and celebrity cricket matches. We shot at Fort Kochi a week ago and I am enjoying shooting here. My wife is also here with me. We love the greenery; everything about this place is lovely. It’s as if we are shooting in a tropical island.
 
 
 
 Honestly, no. I have friends from different South industries but I don’t follow the films or trends. I took up this film because I saw the original and knew exactly what each character has to do. It’s good to be part of a film that had big stars such as Mammootty and  , who are the best at what they do, I believe. 
  Unfortunately I don’t know the language, so I won’t be dubbing for this movie. However, I am hoping I make up for that with my performance. In the future, if there’s something nice and interesting I am open to taking up more projects in the South.
 
 
 
 I am trying to do better work, which will also make me happy. I have done commercial projects till now, and I will continue with that but I also want to do something serious, something grey. I have reached a stage in my life where I want to be experimental.
 
 
 
 It’s not easy. But it only takes one project to change the perception of people. If you do something that is successful and is out of the ordinary, suddenly everyone starts thinking — why didn’t we think of casting him for such a role before? People do stereotype you until you break that mould by doing something different and that becomes successful.
 
 
 
 I think it’s a genre that became really popular and was accepted by everyone. At the same time, people were wondering if we are too conservative a society and if we should expose the younger generation to such content. So, that discrepancy is always there. A couple of films recently didn’t do well with Great Grand Masti being hit by piracy. But it’s the kind of genre that, if made well, can still do well because people enjoy comedy. They enjoy a bit of tongue-in-cheek humour also. I am not saying I advocate it or pan it.
 
 
