AURANGABAD: The local civic body and the state power utility failed to conduct a crucial joint meeting on Wednesday to address issues such as clash in timings of the ongoing   with water-supply, causing grave inconvenience to the citizens.

 People who commonly use electric motors for lifting water from taps are suffering the most. Prior to the Wednesday meeting, the authorities had slotted a meeting on Tuesday which did not fall in place, raising many questions to the authorities.
 
 Stating that they were not receiving any response from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ) over conducting a joint meeting, the higher-ups from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) shot off a letter to the civic authorities. 
 
 MSEDCL chief engineer for Aurangabad circle Suresh Ganeshkar said, “The   timetable cannot be tweaked as it was charted out by considering peak consumption hours.” 
 
 “The AMC officials did not respond us regarding the meeting. We have requested the civic body to change its   schedule in the light of power cuts. The load-shedding timetable is more or less a state level arrangement. It has been worked out to overcome the current power crisis by effecting power cuts during timings which is considered as the peak consumption period,” he said. 
 
 As per the Distribution and Commerical Losses (DCL), for the second consecutive day, the consumers drawing power from the feeders coming into the C and D categories witnessed power-cuts along with those depending upon the feeders categorised in the bracket from E to G.
 
 When contacted, the Aurangabad municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar said that none of the MSEDCL authorities approached them regarding the joint meeting. 
 
 “I am available for official work even if i am in Mumbai for last couple of days. MSEDCL officials have apparently approached the lower level officials. I would seek details from the water supply department officials,” he said.
 
 “AMC has no qualms about altering water-supply schedule in the larger interest of public. The necessary solution would be worked out shortly. If MSEDCL has a rigid stand about its power-cut schedule, we would try and changes certain things at our end,” Mugalikar said. 
 
 The state power utility has effected the load-shedding on 45 feeders out of the total 83 feeders that supplies power to over 2.82 lakh consumers in the city. It has been carrying out similar power cuts on other 22 feeders in the city since Tuesday.
 
 Besides difficulties in the water storage, the city had its visible effect on traffic signals among other public arrangements. 
 
 A few major streets witnessed chaotic traffic signs as traffic lights were turned off due to power cuts. 
 
 MSEDCL authorities said that no immediate relief from power-cuts was in sight. The city is likely to witness power cuts on 67 feeders for the next few days. “We would appeal the defaulter citizens to pay their bill regulars and refrain from the power theft to enjoy interrupted power supply,” an MSEDCL official said. 
 
 Aurangabad zone comprises of urban and rural areas from Aurangabad and Jalna districts that witness DCL in the range of 30% to 40% every month. 
 
 
