NEW DELHI: The Centre and the Jammu & Kashmir government on Monday agreed before the Supreme Court to sit together and resolve the prickly issue of identifying minorities in the only Muslim-majority state in India. 

 A bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar, Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul recorded in its order, “J&K government and the Union government have agreed to sit together to consider the difficulties faced by minorities in the state and submit a proposal in four weeks. We appreciate the desire to jointly address the issue. We expect fruitful results.” 
 
 A PIL filed by Ankur Sharma had alleged that the J&K government had been doling out hundreds of crores of rupees, meant for minority communities in the state, to Muslims who formed the majority in the state. The PIL had alleged that the state had not yet identified the minority communities. Appearing for the state, senior advocate Gopal Subramaniam informed the court that he had advised the Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP-BJP government to take into account the recommendations of the Sachar Committee (on state of minority communities in India) and take care of the minorities. 
 
 “The state government has, as of now, agreed to go by my advice,” he said. The bench said, “It is a very very important issue. The manner in which things have emerged has to be kept in mind while finding a solution. If some protection has to be accorded to the minorities, who else but the government is in a better position?” 
 
 J&K had earlier informed the court that it was not the only state where minorities declared under Section 2(c) of the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, were in majority. “The situation is similar in Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Punjab and Lakshadweep. Similar benefits were given to minorities declared by the central government in other states. If the court takes any decision, it should be uniformly applicable to all states,” the state had said. 
 
 Additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought time to resolve the pan-India issue. But the bench said it would be better to focus on J&K at present. “If required, we will consider extending the resolution to other states facing similar problem,” it said. 
 
 The PIL petitioner had requested the SC to appoint a committee to identify minority communities and stop all disbursement of monetary benefits to minority communities in J&K till the committee gave its report. It had also sought a probe by a special investigation team into illegal and arbitrary disbursal of benefits to majority community in the state from the funds meant for minority communities. 
 
 Opposing the PIL, the state had said, “It is for the state to set up a minority commission. Law is well settled that the SC cannot direct the government to legislate on a particular subject. It is for the state legislature to consider in its wisdom as to which laws are required to be made.”
 
