NAGPUR: After missing two deadlines, April 2010 and April 2015, to implement   AIS: 052, the Union transport ministry appears serious this time. It has decided to take help from government engineering colleges and state transport undertaking to carry out the activity of certification of bus prototypes as per requirements of bus body code AIS: 052.

 Under this code, bus journey in the country will get more comfortable and safer. Specific standards will be outlined for features ranging from the dimensions, location and design of the entry-exit doors and the emergency exits to the standardization of the floor-level height.
 
 Sources in the ministry of road transport and highways told TOI, “There are over 400 accredited bus body builders, in case smaller ones are included, across the country. All the models need to be certified as per requirements of rule 125C of Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.”
 
 For smooth implementation of bus body code and to familiarize specified engineering colleges and state transport undertakings, the ministry proposed to hold regional-level workshops for states in the first week of April. The workshop will be conducted by experts from   (ARAI), Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT) and International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT). ARAI, CIRT and   are premier testing and certification agencies in the country.
 
 “If this changes are implemented, passengers can have wider seats, more legroom, low steps and much more to ensure comfortable journey. The motor vehicles department has already introduced the code by amending   125C (accreditation of bus body builders),” a source said.
 
 It was supposed to replace with the new sub-rule 125 (1) from October 1, 2014. But due to non-availability of facilities, the government failed to implement the same, the source said.
 
 A senior official from the regional transport department said the new rule is applicable to all companies and individuals engaged in bus manufacturing, having a seating capacity of 13 or more passengers.
 
 He further said, “As of now, there are no norms under which we can issue directives bus builders and operators to change their designs that results in cramped journey, extreme heat, intolerable vibration, noise and poor safety standards. Even the poor material used to build buses aggravates the impact of accidents at times. The order might not be acceptable to bus builders and operators, but it would be a great relief to passengers.”
 
 The bus building code will ensure that buses are built as per stipulated standards related to safety, design and comfort. According to this code, every bus manufacturing unit will have to obtain accreditation certificate to demonstrate their capabilities to build buses as per the safety standards set by ARAI, CIRT and ICAT.
 
