MUMBAI: The   car population in Mumbai region has gone up by 320% in five years, and is nearly   of the total number of on-road cars. Of the nearly 33.9 lakh private cars in the Mumbai metropolitan region today, nearly 2.6 lakh use compressed natural  . With the government encouraging car owners to use CNG by giving tax concessions to buyers, several citizens prefer to purchase the dual variant—petrol and CNG— specially for hatchbacks. Many have also got CNG kits retrofitted in existing cars for Rs 40,000-45,000 per kit.

 Transport experts said the primary reason why buyers are going for CNG vehicles was low price and good mileage. “The price of   is almost double that of CNG, and so the latter is quite affordable in comparison. Besides, the mileage of a CNG-driven vehicle is 60-70% more than of a petrol-run car,” an expert said.
 
 The price of CNG on Tuesday was Rs 41.14 per kg as compared to Rs 79.52 for a litre of petrol, in Mumbai.
 
 A car dealer from Ghatkopar said, “We get lot of inquiries about duo variants, although the price of a CNG car is more than the petrol variant and buyers have to sacrifice boot space for the CNG cylinder.”
 
 Ketan Mehta, who is involved with retrofitting CNG kits in the eastern suburbs, said that for a year there has been demand not only for CNG cars, but also CNG scooters.
 
 Data on CNG vehicles has been provided by Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). Officials from MGL said the rapid growth of CNG-driven cars has resulted in the reduction of over 1,300kg per day of pollutants. “The metropolitan population is fast realising the importance of converting vehicles to CNG. There’s no doubt that CNG is the fuel of the future and if we have to preserve our environment, we need less polluting fuels like CNG and PNG (piped natural gas), which also cost less,” said MGL’s managing director, Rajeev Mathur.
 
 MGL data shows that CNG-run autorickshaws in the region grew by around 60% in five years, as compared to a 20% growth in CNG taxis. Interestingly, the number of CNG-driven buses has remained the same for five years—3,341.
 
 Experts said there is a need to create more awareness among bus operators and ensure that a maximum number of diesel-run buses were converted to CNG, especially those plying within the city. As much as 70% of BEST buses ply on CNG, while 30% are still on  , a source said.
 
 Transport expert Jagdeep Desai said CNG was a clean fuel and people should be encouraged to switch to environment-friendly vehicles. “We should not just have CNG, but also electric cars in Mumbai, and this will ensure zero emission. The government wants electric cars to hit the road in a big way by 2030.”
 
