NEW DELHI: The Centre wants   not to levy any administrative charge for acquiring land for building or widening of national highways, or to cap such fee at 2.5% of the compensation amount. It also wants state governments to put a cap on supervision charges for shifting of utilities such as electricity transmission lines, cables and water pipelines. 

 An inter-ministerial panel for approving any government expenditure,   (PIB), made these observations recently while approving Rs 6.92 lakh crore plan to expand national highways, which includes  , the second generation of Golden Quadrilateral. At present, states charge between 6-20.5% of the compensation amount for land acquisition as administrative charges from   and highways ministry. "States will be requested not to levy any such administrative cost for land acquisition or charge actual expenditure or not exceeding 2.5% of compensation amount," the PIB minutes said.
 
 TOI on June 5 had first reported how states were making profit by levying such high charges. For NHAI, it has become a major concern since the new rates for compensation have come into effect. Just NHAI annually acquires 8,000-9,000 hectares particularly for highway expansion and releases around Rs 20,000 crore as compensation. 
 
 The PIB has also observed that state government agencies charge 15% of estimates for supervision of utility shifting from NHAI and the highways ministry. But the actual work is undertaken by the implementing agencies. The inter-ministerial panel has recorded that such supervision charges should only be capped at 2.5% of the approved estimates. The panel has also asked NHAI and the highways ministry to adopt grand challenge mechanism, particularly for building ring roads around cities. It has recommended that states that provide 25% of the land cost for such projects or bypass, should get the first preference from NHAI.
 
 Under Bharatmala, 5,000 km have been identified for building elevated roads, ring roads and bypasses.
 
 
