PATNA: The state transport department has asked officials concerned to keep a check on misuse of beacon lights and ensure timely installation of   (HSRP) in newly purchased vehicles across the state.

 State transport commissioner   has asked all district magistrates, superintendents of police (SPs), traffic SPs and other senior officials to take action against people using beacon lights without being entitled for the same.
 
 As per a notification issued by the transport department on March 4, 2014, only 48 dignitaries are entitled to use   – 13 for red beacons with flasher, 17 for red beacons without flasher and 18 for blue beacons. As per the notification, 13 dignitaries, including governor, chief minister, cabinet ministers and Speaker of the legislative assembly are authorised to use red beacons with flasher.
 
 Deputy speaker of legislative assembly, state ministers, chief secretary and advocate general are authorised to use red beacons without flasher. Blue beacons, on the other hand, are allowed to be used only on ambulances, vehicles used in emergency services and police vehicles.
 
 Sources in transport department, however, claimed that many persons holding the position equal to several posts entitled for beacon lights, like many zilla parishad chairmen, also use beacon lights on the top of their vehicles.
 
 Even those authorized to use beacon lights are required to put the name of the department along with monogram of the state government on the vehicles. None of the aforementioned people can put beacon lights atop their private vehicles. They cannot also switch on their beacon lights when traveling for non-official purposes. However, such rules are seldom followed in the city.
 
 As far as HSRP is concerned, the transport commissioner, through a letter dated February 11, has asked all district transport officers to ensure cent per cent installation of these registration plates on all newly purchased vehicles, otherwise they would be personally held responsible for contempt of   directives in this regard.
 
 The apex court had, in its order dated February 7, 2012 in the case WP(C) No 510 of 2005, directed all states, which had not put in place the scheme of providing HSRP, to commence the corresponding process for all new vehicles by April 30, 2012.
 
 HSRPs are the plates displaying the registration mark as specified under Rule 50 of Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 as amended up to date and related orders issued by ministry of road transport and highways, government of India in the years 2001, 2005 and 2006. These are tamper-proof and self-destructive plates.
 
 
