GAYA: Four  , who had allegedly resorted to stone pelting during an   on the premises of Cambodian monastery on Wednesday, have been arrested by the Gaya police on rioting charge.

 The monks are also charged with assaulting Bodh Gaya circle officer (CO)  , who led the anti-encroachment drive. SHO of Bodh Gaya police station Naresh Kumar was injured in stone pelting by the monks. The arrested monks have been sent to Gaya central jail, district magistrate Kumar Ravi said.
 
 Earlier, a criminal case under different sections of Indian Penal Code, including sections 147, 148, 323 and 353 and section 72 of the Police Act was registered against the monks and two of their local supporters. Ten unnamed monks of the Cambodian monastery also figure as accused in the case registered with the Bodh Gaya police station.
 
 The encroachment by the monastery has been partially removed. The CO said while the boundary wall built on government land has been removed, the structure part of the encroachment has not been demolished. The CO did not give any timeframe for completion of the encroachment removal exercise.
 
 Asked about the other nearly 24 monasteries that have encroached government land and violated building construction laws, the CO said he was not aware of it.
 
 When reminded that notices for voluntary encroachment removal to the 24 monasteries were earlier issued and no follow up action was taken to implement the warning that in case the encroachment was not voluntarily removed, it will forcibly be done and encroachment removal cost at penal rate would be realised, the CO said such notices may have been issued by his predecessors and he was not aware of it.
 
 Meanwhile, zonal IG Naiyyer Hasnain Khan has sought a detailed report on Wednesday’s incident in Bodh Gaya in which the CO and SHO were injured. The IG has directed Gaya SSP Garima Malik to submit the report along with action taken report on previous such incidents in Bodh Gaya.
 
 Rev Pragya Deep, chairman of the Bodh Gaya-based International Buddhist Council, the body representing the 50-odd foreign monasteries located in the seat of enlightenment, while condemning the arrest of the monks, accused the officials of blackmailing and harassing the monastery managers. A meeting of the council would be held to take stock of the situation and decide future course of action. “The officials should have checked encroachment in the initial stage itself,” Deep added.
 
