GURUGRAM: An   filed a complaint on Tuesday accusing that group of youths of stealing a   named Brownie from DLF 2 and killing and eating it. Acting on the complaint by NGO People For animals (PFA), DLF 2 police station lodged an FIR against the youths, who are yet to be named. 

 The dog, belonging to Anupama Srivastav, who lives in Block J of DLF 2, went missing on April 1. On April 17, cops lodged a missing report for the dog. Srivastav also filed a complaint with PFA, and put up posters of the missing pet in the locality, with a Rs 5,000 reward for information on the pet.
 
 PFA began investigating the case. The president of PFA (  chapter) claimed their team zeroed in on a house in Sikanderpur Ghosi village, where they claimed the dog was killed and devoured. As proof, they produced a video clip in which a man can be seen “admitting” that he and his friends had killed and eaten it.
 
 “Brownie, an Indian breed dog, went missing on April 1 from DLF 2. The owner had put up posters of the missing pet in nearby areas, and announced a reward of Rs 5,000. Two people separately contacted the owner and PFA, saying after the dog was stolen, its mouth and legs were tied, it was taken to a house near the Sikanderpur Ghosi community centre by one Philip, where it was killed and eaten,” said PFA president Amit Chaudhery in his police complaint. He added, “We have gathered incriminating evidence of the crime and have shared it with police.” He added the case involved multiple violations, including cruelty to animals.
 
 The FIR was registered, against the unidentified persons, under sections 379 (theft), 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of IPC and Section 11 of the Animal Cruelty Act. 
 
 “We submitted five video clips of the suspects, including one of the house where Brownie is suspected to have been killed and eaten, Chaudhery told TOI, adding, “In another video showing faces of the suspects clearly, they can be heard admitting to eating the dog. We also shared the Google Map location of the house in Sikanderpur Ghosi and hope the accused receive severe punishments.”
 
 Srivastav told TOI Brownie had been with her family for the last four years. “Brownie was like family. I was shocked when the PFA people told me it was killed and eaten. Strict action should be taken against the accused,” said Srivastav.
 
 “As per the NGO’s claim, an FIR was registered and we are verifying the facts. Philip is under the scanner. We’re also studying the video clips provided by the NGO,” said inspector Sudip Kumar, SHO, DLF 2 police station. 
 
