HYDERABAD: Two fraudsters from the city, one a Nigerian, have been arrested for 'honey-trapping' a 60-year-old Australian sewer worker and duping him of 95,000 Australian dollars.

 The Australian had lent money to a woman who claimed to be an Australian living in Hyderabad and whom he had met in Jan 2016 on a dating site. He was hoping to marry her, but after arriving in the city the man from down under realised the 'Australian woman',  , he had been chatting up and giving money generously didn't exist. On Wednesday, he lodged a complaint with the Crime Investigation Department (CID), who finally zeroed in on local man Mohsin Agha (29) and the Nigerian, Mohammed Hassani Barua (31). A case was registered under Sec 66-D of the IT Act, 2000, and IPC Sec 420.
 
 “Sarah claimed to be in fabrics and gems supply business in the city and told the victim that she had to pay about 2 lakh Australian dollars as tax settlement to get her dues of 2.1 million Australian dollars from the Indian government. She asked the victim to loan her some amount,“ CID inspector-general (IG)   said on Thursday.
 
 Police said that the victim saw fake photos of Sarah, who claimed to be an Australian of Turkish descent, and spoke to her several times.Sarah even expressed her interest in marrying the victim after returning to Australia, cops said.
 
 “The victim, who had suffered an injury at his workplace and got compensation, started sending money to bank accounts mentioned to him by Sarah. From the month of June till January, he sent 95,000 Australian dollars,“ a CID official said. As Sarah kept delaying her return to Australia, the victim came to the city a few days ago but failed to meet her despite several attempts.The CID sleuths then dug out Axis Bank account details where the victim's money was transferred and tracked it to Mohsin, who works in a prominent money transfer firm, in Tolichowki.
 
 The CID sleuths arrested Mohsin from his house on Wednesday night and based on his confession arrested kingpin Hassani Barua from his house at Kokapet. Police discovered that Hassani was carrying a passport from Niger. On interrogation, Hassani confessed that he was a native of Nigeria and had come to India more than a decade ago. Cops are now verifying how he obtained a Niger passport when he is a citizen of Nigeria. Cops were yet to nab their associates, including the woman 'Sarah'.
 
 Police also seized laptops, mobiles and pen drives from the possession of the accused. The CID sleuths have also frozen the bank account of Mohsin containing Rs 20 lakh. The arrested culprits have been remanded to judicial custody.
 
