KANPUR: With all efforts failing to broker peace between SP chief   and state chief minister  , party supporters from across the region are turning to God to end the feud.
In Kanpur, a mahayajna was held at the Dandi ashram. A large photo of Akhilesh Yadav was put up prominently and 21 priests performed the rituals amid the chanting of Vedic hymns by head priest Shivakant Maharaj. Maharaj confirmed the mahayajna was being organised to end diferences within the party's first family and to ensure the SP came back to power.
 
 Maharaj, who had met Mulayam Singh Yadav for the first time at a Vrindavan ashram, has been performing rituals for the SP chief 's family for the past 19 years. He had even solemnised the weddings of Mulayam's grandson Tej Pratap and nephew Aditya.
 
 “We are closely associated with the family and the recent developments have us worried,“ he said. Meanwhile, SP workers in Kannauj, which is the constituency of  , claimed, “Everything will be fine“ as they visited the famous Akbar Shah's dargah on the Grand Trunk road to offer prayers and a `chadar'.
 
 Accompanied by supporters,   district secretary Haseeb Hasan arrived at the dargah to pray for both Mulayam and Akhilesh. Haseeb said: “We want to see peace prevail in the family and that the SP retains power with Akhilesh Yadav as our chief minister. We have a firm belief in Allah and his `wali' (one who is closely associated to Allah) Baba Akbar Shah. Eve rything will be fine soon.Our prayers will, Insha Allah (God willing), be answered.“
 
 In Saifai, Mulayam's native village, the locals have decided to organise an `anushthan' to ward off evil spirits hovering around the Yadav parivar. “On Thursday , we would be organising an `anushthan' and pray for unity among the members of Yadav family,“ said Mithilesh Yadav, a local. He added, “Saifai people are worried for both `Netaji' (Mulayam Singh Yadav) and Akhilesh Bhaiya. The `anushthan' will definitely act as an instrument of peace, bringing light and fostering love where there is hatred.“
 
