LUCKNOW: A recently concluded survey by   Social Development Foundation concluded that the poll season has brought some much-needed cheer for the manufacturers of Holi colours and cannons in and around Uttar Pradesh (UP). The report noted that shops selling Holi merchandise have registered 40% rise in sales.

 To conduct this survey, ASSOCHAM representatives interacted with about 100 manufacturers, suppliers and traders of Holi colours, water guns and other such products in Allahabad, Hathras, Kanpur, Lucknow, Mathura, Meerut, and Varanasi that are known world over for their Holi festivities during the course of past one month,.
 
 Besides, ASSOCHAM Social Development Foundation also interacted randomly with about 200 shopkeepers in prominent wholesale and retail markets selling Holi merchandise including colours, water guns, balloons, t-shirts and other such items in 10 cities including those in states that are awaiting election results – Ahmedabad, Dehradun, Delhi-NCR, Jaipur, Kanpur, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Mumbai,   and Patiala.
 
 The survey was conducted by the   to ascertain the impact of elections in UP,  , Punjab and other states on sale of Holi merchandise. D.S. Rawat, national secretary general of ASSOCHAM while releasing the findings of the chamber’s survey said, “Though the Holi festival has been used by political parties across most parts of India to connect with the masses and bond with voters, but the election season has certainly made it lucrative for colour manufacturers in and around UP where this festival is celebrated the most.”
 
 Majority of respondents said they are doing a brisk business, though many people purchase colours, sprinklers and other such items in bulk for parties but this time around there is an element of much excitement owing to poll season and results that would be out a day ahead of Holi. Most of the shopkeepers said that there has been a rise of up to 40 per cent in the sales as many supporters are buying pichkaris, colours and merchandise plastered with the images of different political parties’ symbols and demand for such things is growing by the day. Interestingly most of the manufacturers in aforesaid cities of UP and shopkeepers in cities like Delhi, Dehradun, Ludhiana and Patiala said they have stocked fancy cannons and colours at their stores as cadres of political parties contact them with bulk orders.
 
