KOLHAPUR: With the demand for   to farmers across the state gathering momentum, a total of 45,819 farmers from the district — defaulting on loan amount of Rs 158 crore — would be benefited if the government makes an announcement in this regard in the upcoming budget session.

 Also, the Opposition parties have been demanding loan waivers in the state assembly, citing the farmers have been reeling under the pressure of inconsistent rainfall, drought and crop loss. The   ( ) is the biggest lender to farmers and distributes crop and agricultural loans across the district.
 
 On being asked about the defaulted amount and number of farmers, chief executive officer (CEO) of KDCCB Pratap Chavan said, “A total of 45,819 farmers have defaulted on Rs 158 crore in last 10 years after the announcement of first loan waiver. The principle amount of loan is Rs 158 crore excluding the interest and fine. If we add interest, the amount can reach to Rs 300 crore. The government needs to pay the interest as well. These are all individual loans and loans taken by development societies have not been included.”
 
 Another source in the bank, on condition of anonymity, said, “The government has instructed the bank to gather information on loans to farmers. The movement hints that government is mulling over loan waiver. It would be a great relief for farmers.”
 
 Veteran economist JF Patil said, “The defaulting pattern was different till 1990. There were incidents of willful defaulting on loans. But picture has changed after 1995 when the agricultural market became open for global players. The product cost did not increase as compared to the production cost. Since the year 2000, farmers in Maharashtra have suffered a lot. Even the farming sector has witnessed some environmental changes.”
 
 He added, “The unseasonal rain, hailstorms and lightning have disturbed the crop pattern. Nowadays, a   is not sure about the end product due to changes in nature. Just two days ago, hailstorms destroyed crops in  . In this situation, the farmer has to ask for help from the government. The farming sector is the backbone of our country’s economy. Therefore, we need to give a helping hand to the farmers.”
 
