CHENNAI: Police arrested two people for attacking the security guard of an apartment complex at Anna Nagar on Saturday night. The duo had come there in search of a man who had taken Rs 1 crore in demonetised currency notes from them and promised to give them gold bars. As the arrested duo refused to lodge a formal complaint, police did not pursue the case against the conman. Investigations led police to an ex-councillor on   at Ice House from whom the Rs 1 crore was recovered. Income tax sleuths have now taken over the investigation to trace the origin of the currency notes.

 Police teams led by the Anna Nagar police inspector (in-charge) Selvakumar and JJ Nagar police inspector M Ravi arrested Amanuddin, 64, a resident of   at Nungambakkam, and Rahman, 28, a real estate broker and resident of Dargah Salai at Pallavaram, after residents of the apartment called the city police control room to report a fisticuff between the duo and the security guard, Rathinasamy. The guard had refused to let them in. Based on a complaint from Rathinasamy, the Anna Nagar police registered a case under the IPC Sections 323 (assaulting with hands), 294 (b) (abusing), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 448 (trespass).
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that the duo was desperately searching for a man named  , 35, who had collected the currency notes on Friday and disappeared after switching off his mobile. He had promised to hand over the gold bars on Saturday.
 
 Police said Rahman had informed Amanuddin that one of his friends want to change the old currency notes for gold bars. Amanuddin referred Azeez to Rahman. Azeez promised Rahman and Amanuddin to get them gold bars and asked them to come near a church at T S Krishna Nagar in Mogappair. They met and handed over the currency notes - Rs 75 lakh in the denominations of Rs 1,000 and Rs 25 lakh in the denominations of Rs 500. Azeez took the currency notes and disappeared. The duo had landed at the apartment in AI Block at Anna Nagar, where a neighbour confirmed that a man in the name of Abdul Azeez was staying in one of the flat.
 
 
