MUMBAI:   India ( ) has locked in nine   for the 10th season of Indian Premier League (IPL) set to launch on April 5. The broadcaster with rights to air the most popular 20-over cricket league is targeting Rs 1,300 crore from the upcoming season.
 
    has roped in mobile handset maker   — the title sponsor of the league — as one of the copresenting sponsor along with long-time partner Vodafone.
  
 SPN has also got confirmation from one of the ecommerce majors to be the third co-presenting sponsor. Among associate sponsors, who have signed contracts are   and  , who renewed contracts, and first timers  ,   Agro’s Frooti, Yes Bank and wire-maker Polycab.
  
 Once again advertisers’ response has been fantastic and this year we will make over Rs 1,300 crore,” said Rohit Gupta, president – network sales & international business at SPN.
  
  “There are three copresenting and six associate sponsors already and we are in talks with RB (earlier Reckitt Benckiser), which is most likely to come on board and advertisers in three more categories including four-wheelers, payment gateways and home appliances.”
  
  Gupta said the 2016 edition of the league raked in close to Rs 1,100 crore in advertising money from maximum sponsors till date.
  
  “The 2017 edition is even better,” he said. “The way it is looking, we might close 13 sponsors this time. IPL is one of its kind properties that has been delivering growth in both ratings and reach year-on year. It is now seen as a risk-free investment for advertisers with a high return on investment (RoI).”
  
  “It's a carnival,” says Vinit Karnik, business head at GroupM’s entertainment and sports division, ESP Properties India. “Indians around the world celebrate IPL's extravaganza.
  
  Right from players’ auction to the playoffs, every moment is followed, cherished and shared. Over the years IPL has become an integral part of Indian families’ must do list, a customary yearly pilgrimage,” he said.
  
  A typical IPL match has ad-inventory of 2,300 seconds, out of which Vivo, which replaced Oppo as the presenting sponsor this year, has committed 300 seconds of airtime per match.
  
  Other presenting sponsors have committed over 210 seconds each, while all associate sponsors are given 120 seconds.
  
  Gupta claims while presenting sponsors have come at a price of Rs 5.20 lakh per 10 seconds spot, associate sponsors will be paying Rs 5.75 lakh for spots. “After we close all sponsors, there will be less than 30% inventory left for spot buyers, who will have to cough up Rs 6 lakh per slot,” Gupta told ET.
  
  Media experts said while demonetisation impacted the advertising spends of various companies in the months of December and January — with some spill over in the first quarter of 2017 — IPL will remain unaffected, as it remains the most sought-after property.
  
  “Rs 1,300 crore target should not be difficult,” said R Venkatasubramanian, senior VP at media agency Initiative Media India. “They have already signed 9 sponsors and talks are on with more brands, Sony won’t have to worry about spot buyers either.”
  
  In its 10th season now, IPL has seen massive jump in reach over the years. With a cumulative reach of 361.2 million, season 9 of IPL witnessed a 254% increase since its inaugural season in 2008 and an 88% increase over the previous season.
  
  “There is no other property which gives consistent ratings over six weeks, thus the advertisers’ interest is natural,” said Tuhin Mishra, MD at Baseline Ventures, a leading sports marketing firm.
  
  From the moment the first ball is bowled, everything else takes a back seat for one-and-a-half months, he adds.
  
