PATNA: The third day of   celebrations at  ,  , was marked by beginning of three-day ‘akhand paath’ in the wee hours of Tuesday.

 Early in the morning, the last of the 11 ‘prabhat pheris’ was taken out from Takhat Saheb. It touched Ashok Rajpath, Patna Saheb station, Chowk Shikarpur flyover and Mangal Talab before culminating at Takhat Saheb. Bands and panj pyaras led the morning procession which was also called ‘badi prabhat pheri’.
 
 Three special trains carrying pilgrims for Prakashotsava arrived from New Delhi on Tuesday. Each train had 18 coaches and all the trains were packed to capacity. Nine trains from Punjab’s Anandpur Saheb, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Fazlika, Bhatinda, Patiala, Barnala and Jalandhar will arrive on January 4. At least 300 buses from different districts of Punjab are also expected to arrive here.
 
 As many as 30 buses from different districts of West Bengal reached the city on Tuesday. Raniganj’s Inderjeet Singh said the buses were provided by the West Bengal government free of cost to carry devotees. 
 
 After Kejriwal’s visit to Baal Leela Gurdwara on Monday, RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and Punjab’s former CM Captain Amrinder Singh too paid obeisance at Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb Gurdwara on Tuesday.
 
 Meanwhile, ‘gurbani’ recital, ‘dhaddi’ performances, ‘gatka’ plays and langar continued on the third day too. The day was also marked by two-hour long seminar on life and ideology of Guru Gobind Singh in which top Sikh historians and academics, including vice chancellors of two universities of Punjab, participated.
 
 The vice-chancellor of Patiala’s Punjabi University said it was Guru Gobind Singh who fought for the plurality of religion and faith. A book, ‘Guru Gobind Singh Ji and Bihar’s Sikh Heritage’, authored by the head of department of ‘Encyclopaedia of Sikhism’ Dr Paramvir Singh was also released on the occasion. The registrar of Fatehgarh Saheb’s Guru Granth University, Dr Pritpal Singh spoke on how Guru Gobind Singh streamlined the education system when the teachers at that time didn’t deem it fit to educate ‘shudras.’ As many 40 speakers participated in the seminar.
 
 Patch
 
 No horse race at Gandhi Maidan
 
 The 200 horses which have landed in Patna for horse race will not participate in any such event. The horse race was supposed to be organised in a stadium built at Gandhi Maidan. “The Nihang Sikhs (Sikhs who are known as warriors) said the land marked for them was too small. We offered them a couple of sites, but they did not okay it. So no horse race would take place,” ADM (mela) Shashak Shekhar Sinha said.
 
 
