PUNE: Officials of the   ( ) say they are confused about the Pune Municipal Corporation’s ( ) budgetary provision for the construction of 13 new bus depots.

 A senior PMPML official, requesting anonymity, said, “The construction of 13 new bus depots seems confusing. Of what we know, the budget has provisions for modernization of the existing bus depots located in the PMC and   areas. However, we will study the budget closely. The construction of new bus depots requires land and that needs to be provided by the municipal corporations. While we don’t want to comment on the take of the corporations when it comes to providing land for the same, the PMPML will study the budget and act accordingly.”
 
 Another official added, “In a way, one can say that the PMPML has got only 10 depots. Depots are places in which buses can dock and all maintenance work can be carried out, including fuel and CNG filling. Ideally, a depot should be built on an area of five acres, so that at any time, 100 buses can be docked. The problem in Pune is that the existing depots are small and spread on only an average of 3 acres of land. As there is no space to dock buses, they spill on the streets to park.”
 
 The official added that the corporations were not helping the transport body when it comes to land.
 
 “We need five more depots in Hinjewadi, Wagholi, Singhgad Road, Dhayari and Malwari, on a priority basis. However, we are not getting land,” the official added.
 
 Sources said the PMC has reserved 16 acres of land for PMPML along the Mula Road for almost 20 years. 
 
 “They have reserved it for the PM PML, but the transport body has to buy the plot or take it on lease, which requires a lot of money. Unfortunately, the PMPML doesn’t have funds. We are not getting help from the corporation. If we get the land, many things can be built there. In Bengaluru, there are a total of 55 bus depots, which are spread on an area of around six to seven acres each. But here, we are not concentrating on such issues,” the official added.
 
 Another official said two new depots were being planned.
 
 “The transport body is presently planning two more bus depots provided there is no problem of land. The first one is expected to come up in Umbre Park. There is another plot in the Sus Road area but it has been encroached upon. If the PMC removes the encroachments, another depot can come up there. However, these projects need proper planning,” the official added.
 
 Commuters are an unhappy lot. “Each night, I travel along a road near the PMC building. Parked buses completely block the road. It is not only difficult but also dangerous. Why are there so many buses if the PMPML doesn’t have parking space?” said daily commuter Kamlesh Ingle.
 
