PANAJI:   has dedicated her life to football, first as player and now as coach. The learning process continues for the former India international who will be scouting for the National side during the first Women’s I-League which kicks off later this month.
 
  Six teams –  , Aizawl FC, Eastern Sporting Union (Manipur), Rising Students FC (Odisha), Alakhpura FC (Haryana) and Jeppiyar Institute FC (Puducherry) – will battle for top honours, and although there is no team from Goa, Maymol’s perseverance means at least two Goan players, Velanie Fernandes and Mitchel Castanha, now has the chance to impress national selectors.
  
  It’s imperative that the two Goan players catch the eye of national selectors. Goan football is going through bad times; three top clubs have pulled out of the I-League and no Goan was part of the India squad for the SAFF Cup Women’s Championship which India won with ease for the fourth consecutive time.
  
  The team was coached by Sajid Dar and   had a huge role to play in the team’s triumph as an assistant coach.
  
  “In Goa, all sports departments have to work together and start a strong, competitive women’s league,” said Maymol, who is back with the Sports Authority of Goa after a stint in the Goa Football Development Council where she headed the girls’ academy.
  
  India, placed 54th in the Fifa rankings, remained unbeaten in all the 19 matches in the SAFF tourney in all the four editions so far and now head into the AFC Women’s Asian Cup 2018 Jordan Qualifiers in April.
  
  “To improve the Fifa rankings we have to play some international friendlies every year. The junior team is shaping up well but there are hardly any prospects from our state,” said Maymol.
  
  India will know their opponents only on January 21 when the draw is announced in the host country capital Amman. The qualifiers will take place between April 3-11, providing India with a real test.
  
  Maymol has been the head coach of the junior India teams on a couple of occasions but she aspires to guide the national side one day. She also wants to complete her AFC Pro Licence. But the focus, for now, remains on unearthing new talent for the Indian team through the I-League. If the two from Goa get the nod, it will be some success for Maymol, who provided strong recommendation’s for the duo’s inclusion.
  
  If not, it will be Maymol again who will be the only Goan flying the flag for women’s football at the national level.
  
