HYDERABAD: A countrywide mafia is involved in controlling the way clinical trials for drugs are conducted. With the motive of making a quick buck, several norms are being blatantly violated, thereby affecting both `volunteers' and possibly the lab results.

 It's because of the lure of money , thousands of `volunteers' are taking the pharma industry for a ride by allowing themselves to be subjects of two different drug trials. There are two dangers here: one, the health of such volunteers is at risk, and, two, the drug trials may throw up wrong results.
 
 India is the preferred destination of global pharma companies. The results of the clinical trials conducted here help the pharma firms get licence for the drugs from the   (FDA). Once this licence is obtained, the drugs can be released in many countries. There has also been an instance of the   finding fault with a pharma major for the manner in which it conducted the trials.
 
 Meet MS   , a repeat `volunteer'. His haemoglobin level is 8.7 gm as against the normal 13.5 gm-18 gm.Swamy , a resident of the city, told   that his haemoglobin levels were low because he subjected himself to repeated clinical trials for drugs which involved drawal of blood.   , like many others, was advised to take some tablets to increase his haemoglobin levels so that he could volunteer to be a sub ject for more drug trials.
 
 The volunteers, who get between `10,000 and `25,000 for each trial, are also hoodwinking Indian pharma companies where clinical trials are held. Though a volunteer can be part of another drug trial only after a certain time gap, they rush to grab any other opportunity even within that gestation period. They do not disclose that they are already subjects for an ongoing trial.
 
 According to sources, labs across the country do not have a single software in which names of subjects are entered.One set of labs uses one software while other labs use another one. As a result, if a person is a subject for one trial in a lab that uses one software, his name cannot be detected in another lab with different software. There is also no way for labs to know if there is a time gap required for the subject to undergo trials for different drug.
 
 “There is a mafia operating in this country . For the lure of money , volunteers put their lives at risk. Several labs which are in need of subjects for drug trials make no checks on whether person is already undergoing trials for another drug,“ a volunteer said.
 
