AMRITSAR: The SGPC panel set up to probe into Sikh politicians visiting Sirsa-based Dera   to seek support for the recently concluded   assembly elections has failed to submit its report by the February 13 deadline. 

 SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar had constituted the three-member sub-committee on the instructions of Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh. According to sources in the SGPC, the panel has not submitted the report as many SAD leaders have been mentioned in it and that this could mar the SAD's prospects in the   (DSGMC) elections to be held on February 26.
 
 Dera Sacha Sauda had extended support to SAD for the Punjab elections. However, in 2007, the Akal Takht had asked Sikhs to severe ties with the   after its chief, Gurmeet Ram Rahim, had made an appearance dressed as the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh. After the dera had extended support to SAD, which controls the SGPC, Badungar had constituted the panel comprising SGPC senior vice president Baldev Singh Kiampuri, executive member Gurcharan Singh Grewal and general secretary Amarjit Singh Chawla.
 
 SGPC additional secretary D S Bedi confirmed that they had not received the report from the panel.
 
 Sources, however, said as names of 20 Akalis, including ministers, MLAs and prominent leaders, had figured in the report, the SAD was reluctant to make the report public before the DSGMC polls. "The party has high stakes in DSGMC elections. Any report revealing Akali leaders going to the dera for votes could be detrimental to the party's prospects in the polls," said sources.
 
 Denying any such attempt to delay the report, committee member Chawla said it was not an easy task to examine the role of every Sikh leader who visited the dera's headquarters in Sirsa. He added that the jathedar had not made the investigations time-bound. "He had only sought the report within a week's time. Every second day, we get some new names. Every name has to be examined thoroughly before preparing the report," he said, adding that he had asked SGPC president to give them more time for properly investigating into the matter.
 
 Asked whether Sikhs owing allegiance to   were cooperating in the probe, he said they were yet to examine them. "It will be clear only when we call them," he said.
 
 According to sources, the names of Akali leaders Parminder Singh Dhindsa and Sikander Singh Maluka; Congress's Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Kewal Singh Dhillon and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring; and some leaders of AAP have been mentioned in the report.
 
 Confirming that he had not received the report so far, Gurbachan Singh said there would be no favouritism in the report. "The 2007 edict was for the whole community, not just for Sikhs belonging to a particular political party," he said.
 
 
