CHENNAI: The   government will present its maiden budget on March 16. Governor C   has fixed March 23 as the date to present the voteon-account for the   to the  , while final supplementary estimates for the current fiscal will also be presented the same day, according to a statement issued by assembly secretary AMP Jamaludeen. Senior minister D Jayakumar, who was given the finance portfolio last week, will present the budget.

 After three or four days of budget discussion, the house will take up a debate on demands for grants for each of the departments for close to a month. The budget has raised ex pectations given the overall outstanding debt of the state estimated to be Rs 2.52 lakh crore by the end of this fiscal, a 40% jump from 2014-15. The state government has said the implementation of many new schemes, such as the waiver of agricultural loans of small and marginal farmers owed to cooperative institutions and free power of up to 100 units for domestic consumers and continuance of various welfare schemes, have increased the expenditure of the state. The revenue deficit for the ongoing fiscal has been estimated at Rs 15,854 crore.
 
 The Palaniswami government has its task cut out due to the strains in finances. In his maiden visit to New Delhi after assuming charge as chief minister, Palaniswami requested PM Modi to release the pending dues of Rs 17,333 crore in the central schemes and highlighted the adverse treatment meted out to the state by the 14th finance commission.
 
 The cash situation is so stressed that the state announced the increase in VAT on petrol and diesel at the fag end of the financial year and did not wait for the budget. As part of the Centre's Uday scheme, the state will also have to bear the debt burden of the TNEB. The closure of 500 more liquor outlets in addition to 500 shut down earlier is also causing a worry among finance managers.
 
 Next fiscal will be all the more difficult to manage, as the Amma scooter scheme costing `200 crore and enhancement of maternity scheme assistance will be implemented. “The signals are not encouraging. We will get to see pay commission recommendations and GST, which reduces the tax potential of the state, rolled out. It is high time the freebies are evaluated except food subsidy in PDS,“ said public finance expert R Srinivasan, pointing to shortage of subsidized food grains in PDS outlets these days.
 
