BENGALURU: After missing the   by a whisker last year, Bengaluru is busy reviving its proposal to bag the project in the third and final round of the competition to be held in March.

 The city missed a place in the project by 0.5 marks in June due to last-minute preparation for the second round of the competition from among 83 cities. The IT capital will be the only city from Karnataka to participate in the third round.
 
 “Bengaluru development minister K J George will hold a meeting in a couple of days to decide on the content of our fresh proposal. We are determined to ensure the city bags a Smart City spot as it will go a long way in creating public infrastructure," said BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad. A source said the govern ment has sought the help of an expert panel to analyse the first proposal and identify the challenges for the city. “We are looking to fill the gaps in our proposal.Unlike earlier when we had just 25 days to prepare our proposal, this time we have about 90 days," said Dr Muralidhar, nodal officer for the  .
 
 In the previous two rounds, six cities from Karnataka were selected under the initiative -Davanagere, Belagavi, Mangaluru, Shivamogga, Hubballi Dharwad and Tumakuru.Bengaluru wasn't considered in the first round, but was counted in the second round, following pressure from Union ministers and MPs from the state.
 
 The Smart City project is crucial for Bengaluru, which is riddled with traffic congestion and crumbling public infrastructure. If chosen, it gets a Rs 1,000-crore fund over five years. The proposals are prepared based on assessment of gaps in the present infrastructure and service delivery , public consultations, plans for areabased development and technology-based solutions submitted by participating cities. The deadline for submitting the proposal to the   is March 31.
 
 One of the council's projects under the Smart City proposal is reviving the glory of Bengaluru by mooting mo bility infrastructure solutions and quality urban services, plus a solid waste management plan. The BBMP will again approach its nerly 1 crore residents seeking suggestions on how to transform Bengaluru into a smart city .
 
 “It's unfortunate that the Centre hasn't picked Bengaluru for the project. The city should have been included in the first list. The BJPCongress politics, rather than eligibility parameters, seems to have played a role.The city might get into the list this time, and the BJP might use this to drum up support ahead of the 2018 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls,“ said Ramesh V Shah, an urban professional.
 
 
