NAGPUR: With an aim to help small and medium size enterprises ( ), National Human Resource Development Network ( ), Nagpur Chapter organized an event for human resource (HR) professionals at   on Saturday. The theme of the seminar was ‘Building Customer Centricity across Organization’. 

 GP Rao, CEO, Good People Relations HR Consulting, said, “Great things are not achieved easily. We cannot control everything but hard work and efforts are in our hands. If an organization work towards prosperity of HR sector, it can get long term benefits.”
 
 He further added, “Today, HR needs customer centric approach rather than profit centric. Hard and smart work can help us achieve it. HR needs to create expectations among customers.”
 
 Amishi Arora, chief speaker at the event and founder, NHRDN, Nagpur Chapter, said, “NHRDN is a knowledge and experience sharing platform. Young HR minds get an opportunity to interact with the experts and discuss their queries.” She added that NHRDN has 36 chapters across the country.
 
 Stressing the importance of an employee-friendly  , Anand Aurangabadkar, president, NHRDN, Nagpur Chapter said, “Simon Sinek once said that customers will never love a company until its employees love it. Every company should work towards the betterment of its HR department. The department holds great power over the marketing and customer relations.” 
 
 NHRDN’s aims to boost the networking of HR professionals form across the country for the better future of the HR sector, he added. 
 
 Mridul Chakravorty, treasurer, NHRD, Nagpur Chapter, said, “Such seminars train budding HR representatives and academia. Every sector is experiencing a boom and we aim to capitalize on the wave.”
 
 The HR department plays an important role in pleasing the customer. Employee retention is a cause of concern for every organization. Hence, the efficiency of the HR department is very important, said Ranjit Dani, secretary, NHRDN, Nagpur Chapter.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
 
