NAGPUR: At a time when the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is facing severe hardships to pay salaries to its staffers, it can manage the financial situation by stopping   under  .

 A case in point is use of private vehicles hired by NMC for zonal chairmen/chairpersons and officials. The cash-starved NMC hired almost 60 four-wheelers. For every vehicle, NMC spends around Rs26,000 per month and the accumulated expenditure is around Rs1.87 crore per annum.
 
 However, some NMC officials questioned the decision. As per NMC by-laws, only mayor Nanda Jichkar, deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar and municipal commissioner   are entitled to one official vehicle each. However, 60 civic officials and office-bearers were using vehicles hired by NMC, while 16 officials were using private vehicles and claiming reimbursement from the civic body.
 
 NMC already has a provision to pay vehicle allowance to senior civic officials, of Rs12,000 per month.
 
 Another issue of wasteful expenditure is of hiring private security guards. However, to curb its expenditure, the general administration department (GAD) has proposed security guards from government organizations. The proposal, which will be placed before the standing committee meeting schedule on May 12, is pending for a month.
 
 The GAD has proposed to appoint government security guards for six months. As per the proposal, these guards were supposed to be appointed from May 1 till October 30 on a pilot basis.
 
 NMC had been paying Rs23,911 a month to a private guard, whereas the rate of government guards are Rs21,975. NMC needs around 279 guards for its properties including zonal offices, head office, schools, gardens, etc. If NMC entrusts the job to   board, it will require Rs61,31,135 a month, whereas guards from private agencies were paid Rs66,71,255 a month.
 
 If the standing panel gives nod to the GAD’s proposal, the cash-strapped NMC can save Rs5,40,120 a month.
 
 Another department where the NMC is wasting taxpayers’ money is public relations. Here, despite having a staff strength of almost 13, the civic body had entrusted a private firm and paying Rs3 lakh per month.
 
