 Shahjahanpur: A seven-year-old girl was brutally killed by her alcoholic father after she failed to get him a glass of water when he ordered her to. This incident happened in Bhagwantapur village of Banda block on Wednesday night. Lalu Nat slit his daughter's nose and beat her with a stick until the police, alerted by neighbours, arrived and arrested him. The girl was taken to hospital where she succumbed to injuries. Though Nat has been arrested, no FIR had been registered against him at the time of going to the press.  Police said Nat’s wife Leelawati was away at her maternal house with her younger daughter Pati, 1. Roshni was alone at home with her brother Kishan, 5.     Roshni was playing with Kishan at home when a drunk Nat arrived and asked her to fetch a glass of water. The girl failed to respond to his call. Infuriated at the delay, Nat shouted at the child to bring water. This time, Roshni ran and fetched him water. Nat rewarded her by slapping her hard. Not satisfied with the punishment meted out, he allegedly slit her nose and stepped out of the house.    When Nat came back a few minutes later, he found Roshni wailing loudly. Unable to silence her, the enraged man began to beat her mercilessly.    Hearing the child’s cries, neighbours called Dial100 police service. Police arrived and stopped Nat from beating the child further. They arrested him and rushed Roshni to the community health centre, where she was referred to the district hospital in Shahjahanpur. There she succumbed to internal injuries as a result of the beating.    Neighbours described Nat as quite aggressive and said people preferred to keep distance from him. He worked as a labourer in a local brick kiln and spent all his money on liquor    Emergency medical officer Dr Rahul Parashar said, “The girl possibly died due to injuries in her vital organs. The visible injuries were there on her face but there were several internal injuries as well. It was a rare case in recent past for us."    SP (rural) RK Bhartiya told TOI, “Police immediately arrived after getting the information and rescued the child. She was immediately provided initial treatment and referred to the district hospital where she died due to injuries. Her father is in our custody at the moment.”