

 
  
 I am waiting,” says Chitra PU over phone from Ooty early in the morning. She is waiting for the cab that will take her to her house in Mundur, Palakkad, where A C Moideen, State Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs, is supposed to pay her a visit. 
 
  Her wait is not just for the taxi but also for a call to participate in the IAAF World Championship which will begin in London from August 4. Though she is pleased about the Kerala High Court’s directive to   ( ) to ensure her participation in the championship, Chitra is also aware that her chances of running on the London track is nearly zero. But in the true spirit of a sportsperson, she is refusing to give up. Excerpts from her interview…
 
 
 
 
 I am extremely happy and thankful to all for supporting me. When I won the gold at the Asian Championship, everybody told me that Iniyippo Londonilokke povalo! (Now you can go to London). I was excited but when the participants’ list came out I came to know that I was ousted. I was really upset. I lost the chance, which I am not sure if I will ever get again.
 
 Now that the directive from HC has come, I see a silver lining. It is now all in the hands of the federation. However, I know that there is only a feeble chance for me to fly to London. I am sad, yet hopeful and also content that the people and the court have found that I am not in the wrong. 
 
 I was scared when my coach   suggested approaching the court against AFI’s decision. I asked him, Case okke veno? I didn’t know that people would come forward to support me like this. Everyone in Ooty, who saw me racing, assured me that what I did is right. And that raised my hopes. 
 
 
 
 
 I will take it as a challenge. They gave inconsistency in my performance as the reason for exclusion, so I will practise more and aim to be perfect so that nobody can find fault with my performance. I should refine myself and reach a level where no one can ever say, ‘Oh she isn’t good enough!’ My performance should be my answer and I should work hard for it instead of being disappointed and disheartened. That is what sportsman spirit is all about and we are athletes who believe in giving the best rather than winning a medal.
 
 I shouldn’t give up and sprint ahead for the sake of my family, my coach, for media and the people who rallied around me.
 
 
 
 
 It did. But ma’am would be having her own reasons to say so. She is an Olympian and she knows better. I have not taken part in international meets, and have only got a chance to participate in nationals. When I won the medal at Asian Championship, I had hopes that I will be able to participate in an international meet. After my hopes were dashed came ma’am’s comment. She is someone I admire and look up to. It was heart-breaking.
 
 But, it is ok. There is no point in feeling bad or crying. God will give me better opportunities and chances. I am an optimist.
 
 
 
 
 It varies from person to person. We cannot predict when luck will favour one and at what age. However, I will focus on improving and enhancing my skills.
 I really wish if I had got the chance to participate in the World Championship as it would have boosted my confidence and performance level.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, of course. Initially, I had no clue how to plan the race on the track but when I contested at the Asian Championship and other competitions, I understood a bit about the track and got an idea on how to go about the race.
 
 My coach had told me that I may get a medal if I perform well, but I thought it was a wild dream. He also asked me to give my best in the final lap. My best performance till then was 4 minutes 24 seconds and I wondered if I would be in the final five. Then I decided to give it a try. By God’s grace, I performed well and finished at 4 minutes 20 seconds, and took the gold medal home.
 
 
 
 
 I do not know. But the thrill is more when you have strong competitors. I gave my best performance in the first heats and two Japanese girls and a Chinese girl had also performed really well. I thought they would get the medals. I had observed their strides then and kept telling myself that I should perform well, give my best and try at least to break my own record. And I gave my best in the finals.
 
 
 
 Every time I enter the track, I want to give my best. But in sports, we cannot be consistent always. I will try to improve and stay steady. I will face things as they come. Ups and downs, victories and defeats are part of sports and life.
 
 ==
 
 
 
 
