VADODARA: A close associate of  , minister of state for sports, youth and cultural activities, has registered a   against  , partner of Maria   who was convicted in the Neeraj Grover murder case. 

 Sachin Shah, a city-based businessman, has accused Paromita of cheating him and Sandip Patel of Rs 32 lakh. Police have launched hunt for Paromita who currently stays in Ahmedabad. 
 
 “We had met at office of advocate Rajendra Trivedi when Paromita used make visits to the city. Trivedi was defending Maria in a cheating case registered in the city against her and Paromita in 2015. Paromita told us that she was in need of money to fight the legal battle and other reasons,” Shah, who often accompanies Trivedi, told TOI. 
 
 “Paromita showed us demand drafts worth Rs 10 crore of different banks and sought Rs 32 lakh between August 2016 and December 2016. She said that she can’t withdraw her money from her account due to legal case filed against her. Patel and I gave her Rs 14 lakh and Rs 18 lakh respectively after seeing the drafts,” Shah said. He added that they deposited the cheques she had issued to them after she failed to return the money.
 
 “However, we learnt that the demand drafts she showed us were fake after the cheques bounced. We immediately approached the police on Saturday and filed a complaint of cheating,” Shah said. 
 
 Susairaj was convicted for destruction of evidence in the murder of Neeraj Grover who was chopped to pieces by her fiancé Emile Jerome in 2008 in Mumbai. Maria and Paromita, who were arrested in a cheating case worth Rs 3.73 crore, had met in Byculla Jail.
 
 Paromita made Maria her partner after they both got out jail. They formed Parapan Travels and approached travel agents in the city. Paromita used the celebrity status of Maria to convince the travel agents for accepting their discounted air ticket offer. The duo promised air tickets for Umrah pilgrims at 25 per cent discount to the agents in the city. After accepting the payment, the duo cancelled the booked tickets and duped the travel agents of Rs 2.68 crore. Maria was arrested by Ahmedabad crime branch in 2015. 
 
 “We are collecting evidence against Paromita and will proceed to arrest her once we have enough proof,” said City police inspector, M D Puar. 
 
 The police believes that she is staying somewhere in Mumbai.
 
