While the fight to make Jallikattu legal grabbed a lot of attention, on the sidelights the   government has sprung a surprise by making the state’s buffalo race —   — legal through a   passed in the Assembly.   exempted Kambala from the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and categorized it as a traditional sport.
The Bill, reported to have been passed unanimously by the state assembly, read, “Notwithstanding anything... conduct of Kambala or Bulls race or Bullock cart race shall be permitted, subject to condition that no unnecessary pain or suffering is caused to the animals, by the person incharge of that animal used to conduct the race, as the case may be and subject to such other conditions, as may be prescribed.”
 
 
 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) issued a statement that condemned the Karnataka government’s decision. “Though most Indian citizens abhor cruelty to animals, since the start of Jallikattu events this year, which have resulted in numerous bull and human deaths in recent weeks, some have been calling for the legalization of events such as bull and buffalo races, during which animals are hit with nail-studded sticks; cockfights, in which knives are tied to roosters’ feet to make fights bloodier; and bulbul bird fights, for which birds are trapped and fed intoxicants. Cruelties inherent in these events violate the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960.” 
 The report added, “65 non-cognizable offence complaints and one FIR were filed at events inspected by the   in 2014 and 2015. The reports have scientific assessment of the welfare of buffaloes when participating in such events, including photographic evidence and description of cruelty inflicted on the animals, such as shouting, hitting with hands, slapping on the face, violent pulling of nose ropes, rough handling by pushing and pulling the animal, overpowering, tail pulling, and restricting the movements of the head using a wooden pole tied to the horns.”
 
 
 I am obviously very happy, as this is something that I have been seeing since my childhood. A stay on Kambala is like a stay on our culture. Kambala doesn't involve much violence. In fact, these buffalos are looked after as our own children. They are fed and kept on a special diet the same way as our body builders are. This lift on the ban on the race was much needed — Rakshit Shetty, actor & director
 
