MUMBAI:   has seen several regime changes, but through its corridors walk veterans who have fought and survived many electoral battles. At 70, Ram Barot from Malad represents a generation of corporators who have seen Mumbai's western suburbs transform from laid-back enclaves of communities into overdeveloped and densely populated precincts.

 Barot, a homeopath by training, has engaged with civic life for over three decades. He contested BMC polls for the first time in 1985, lost and then returned to win it in 1992. He was subsequently named the city's deputy mayor in 1999.
 
 Barot says Mumbai has changed completely in the years since he began interacting with residents. Mumbaikars, he says, are today much more vocal about what they want from their representatives.
 
 Back in 1992, the public image of a corporator was that of an individual with criminal connections. “People would be very afraid,“ he says. “They would keep away thinking the corporator might do something. Today it's no longer the same, Mumbaikars are much more conscious and come forward with demands much more freely,“ says Barot. His channel of communication within the constituency too has gradually changed.“Back then posters, banners, pamphlets, rallies would attract people but by the 2000s this started to fade...while contesting for 2007 elections I made use of SMS to reach out to people,“ says the veteran from the  .
 
 He recounts the process of collecting mobile numbers of people in his ward and sending them an SMS about a new BJP office opening in Malad. “Much to my surprise there was a large turnout,“ recalls Barot. But now he says an SMS no longer works; social media has taken over. From `Facebook' to `WhatsApp' it's all a means to connect with an ever-growing audience.
 
 And public participation is on the rise. “From slums we see more women coming forward with their problems while from highrises there is a mix of both women and men coming in,“ says Barot. The other distinctive change he points out is the manner in which the landscape of the metropolis has altered. Mumbai in the '90s did not boast of the infrastructure it enjoys today . “Whether it's good cement concrete roads, bridges, gardens or even well lit pockets, the city was struggling...owing to development of infrastructure, reaching south Mumbai is much easier now,“ said Barot.
 
 Campaign funding is another issue on which he has an interesting take. Barot says these were early years for the BJP and finding candidates to field was not an easy task. “The party was just formed in the 1980 and to fight the corporation elections in 1985 I was selected. As I was already with the party doing social work I was asked to contest the elections. At that time I required (rupees) one lakh to contest the elections and had to ask my family and friends to help me out. When I lost the elections it was a huge setback especially as I had no money left to repay ,“ he says.
 
 Today, Barot is bracing for yet another contest, and this time thanks to delimitation or redrawing of constituencies, parts of his old ward have been merged with an adjoining ward. The days ahead promise an exciting time.
 
