Mysuru: Calling on the government to devise new strategies suited to the environment of rural India, wherein the resources of the   would be utilized effectively, director of the Centre for   at The   – Deemed university, Prof ND Mani criticised successive Indian governments for their failure to develop   in the past six decades.

 Mani, who delivered the inaugural address at the two-day national seminar on Sustainable   through Government Programmes – Vision and Action organised by the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) on Friday, said, “Rural development cannot be taken up uniformly across the country, given the diversity of our villages. Development should be taken up depending on the conditions of each village.”
 
 Pointing to some of the government’s schemes such as Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, which were geared towards bringing about improvement in rural areas through formulation and delivery of development programmes, Mani added, “These schemes must be utilized.”
 
 Although a number of programmes have been rolled out, and implemented, since 1952 for the development of rural India, Mani asked if the objective had been achieved. “In my opinion, the   have not been met. This is because of poor participation from people, the indifferent attitude of officers implementing government schemes. Moreover, the support extended to these programmes by local representatives is also open to debate,” he added.
 
 Mani said that development schemes had taken on different forms and names. “Initially, they were referred to as rural development schemes, then they were called community development that involved the residents. Now, it is being called sustainable development, where a place is developed using the resources available there, and preserving them for the next generation,” he added. 
 
  ‘Resources not used properly’
 
 “In Israel, farmers cultivate crops throughout the year even though annual rainfall is just around 600mm, while in my state, Tamil Nadu, farmers are struggling to sustain for one season despite the rainfall being more than 900mm. This suggests that we have to learn how to utilise our resources,” said Mani, adding that growing water-intensive crops such as paddy and sugarcane led to depletion of resources.
 
 
