Kolkata:   on Wednesday linked the recent incidents of communal flare-up in Bengal to BJP’s atte-mpts to capture states ruled by the opposition, noting that the Hindu-Muslim tension fuelled its Hindutva strategy and favoured it in elections. But, in the same breath, he also cautioned that the perceived appeasement of Muslims in Bengal could end up harming the community.

 Speaking to a private television channel on Wednesday, Sen said the repeated communal clashes in recent times were indicative of BJP’s political ambition of capturing opposition-ruled states. 
 
 “Right now,   is on the offensive to try to capture those states that it did not man-age to capture, and Bengal is one of them. Any kind of Hindu-Muslim tension is one that feeds into the Hindutva way of looking at India and that, of course, is favourable for BJP in elections. That is the picture across the country, of which Bengal is a part,” Sen said.
 
 The Nobel Laureate’s comments on Wednesday followed from the call to stand up against communalism he gave barely two days ago. “The time has come to unite and fight communalism and sectarianism. Dominance of ideas of vision has gone down. People are focused on tactics and winning elections. Communalists will win elections again and again as they are better at tactics,” he had said after a private screening of the ‘Argumentative Indian’, a documentary on the Nobel Laureate that is now in the eye of a storm after the   asked its director,  , to beep out references to cow slaughter, Gujarat riots and Hindutva.
 
 Quizzed on the perception that the Bengal government had been resorting to “Muslim appeasement”, Sen said the chief minister needed to recognise the threat that this posed. “Mamata Banerjee has to take responsibility for many things and recognise that any kind of vulnerability that is brought out, as it happened in Basirhat, would be playing straight into the hands of the people she is at war with (the BJP) rather than in alliance with,” he said.
 
 Referring to the Basirhat incident as a same-side goal, Sen said the kind of activism that appeared to be defending the interests of Muslims in Bengal had the effect of actually making their position more vulnerable in the long run.
 
 Sen, who was speaking from his residence in Santiniketan, was yet again critical of demonetisation despite it being perceived as one of the major reasons that propelled the BJP to a spectacular victory in Uttar Pradesh. Insisting that demonetisation was a disaster economically and that all analyses carried out since then had confirmed this, he said it was the result of the BJP's tactical ability to manipulate public opinion into believing that demonitsation was bad for people but was good for the country.
 
 "That such a rhetoric could be planted in people's minds and be a winning thing in an election indicates two things: the gullibility of the situation where the media is not rigorous and also the weakness of the Indian opposition. The Indian opposition, at this time, is pretty hopeless. There were things that the oppostion could have done, which it didn't do. The ruling party was able to change the interpretation of what was going on in a way that didn't fit in the economics of the story but fitted in the political propaaganda in a trully effective way," Sen argued.
 
 Though he said the Opposition was still very weak and confused, as was evident in its failure to put forth a presidential candidate in time, Sen said it was still possible for it to learn and make ammends before the general elections in 2019. “The opposition needs to understand the nature of democratic politics and identify what the central issues are. If you do that, you can win because there will be an agreement on the central issues in a way so that what remains a splintered set of minorities becomes a majority,” he reasoned.
 
 
