Common knowledge across Goa’s tourism spectrum was confirmed anew earlier this week, when industry authorities released calculations showing that foreign tourists outspend their Indian domestic counterparts by at least 300%. The statistics for 2016 are stark and unambiguous: an average Indian visitor to   spends around Rs 30,000, while an average foreigner spends close to Rs 1 lakh while in the state. Though multiple caveats apply, and this analysis is far from comprehensive, there can be no doubt the findings are broadly accurate. Every tourism stakeholder of Goa can supply ample anecdotal evidence to back them up. 

 Similarly, all involved in this vital sector of the economy can attest to other inconvenient truths resulting from the dramatic proliferation of low-budget domestic tourists, which has devastated the state in just a few years. Almost all the garbage on the once-beautiful coastline is thrown there by Indian travellers. Almost every single incident of public nuisance involves visitors from the rest of the country. It is only Indian men dressed inappropriately on the beaches, who persistently make women uncomfortable with leering boorishness. You will not find a single foreigner in the throngs urinating directly on the dunes of   beach every evening.
 
 Look further. Almost every single customer for the odious, universally loathed casinos is a domestic traveller. Prostitution exists in the state only because of Indians. Only desis come to Goa to sleep in buses and other vehicles, while cooking on the roadside and using the open spaces as a vast open-air toilet. These lowest-common-denominator travellers don’t even register in industry statistics for expenditure, because most of what they contribute is festering mountains of trash. The department of tourism triumphantly declared five million Indians travelled to Goa in 2016. But take a closer look at what has resulted, and it’s obvious there’s no reason to celebrate.
 
 Part of the problem is Goa’s government never had a clue about tourism management. To the extent the industry succeeded in the state in the first place, it is due to natural beauty, boundless cultural resources, and bountiful native hospitality. Instead of carefully safeguarding these priceless assets, successive administrations collude with short-sighted industry operators to engage in a precipitous race to the bottom. Today, the mass of travellers to this formerly legendarily beautiful slice of the Konkan, come because it is cheaper than other options at the bottom of the barrel. It has been criminally comprehensive mismanagement, even by the disastrous standards of administration in the rest of the country.
 
 The scale of disaster is even worse when missed opportunities are taken into account. Over decades, the tourism industry repeatedly benefited from internal disasters in its international competition: Turkey, Thailand, Egypt, Sri Lanka. Also, for a long time, Goa remained the subcontinent’s unrivalled resort destination, perfectly poised to benefit from the rise of moneyed, high-value Indian travellers of the sort that make up 10% of Switzerland’s annual influx. Instead of cashing in on this immense potential, the state opened the floodgates to millions of the least valuable travellers in the world. Now, an overwhelming   of highly damaging Indian tourists is rapidly erasing whatever potential Goa retains.
 
 Its true value and impact cannot be accurately measured in financial terms alone, and Goa has learned that lesson many times over. It is the wealthiest “outsiders” who have committed the worst atrocities of illegal construction in the state, while the earliest hippies barely had pockets to carry money but still lived peacefully under undisturbed coconut palms to create a mystique that still lingers. Many of today’s young Indian travellers pass through the state with great awareness and appreciation for the civilisational values that make Goa special, even as they don’t have fat wallets. The problem with tourism in Goa isn’t the paucity of worthwhile visitors, but the fact they’re massively outnumbered by mass-market catastrophes rooted in incompetence and irresponsibility.
 
 Small steps could make a huge difference to Goa’s tourism, but successive administrations have always been much more interested in pointless scam infrastructure that is guaranteed to attract even more of the wrong kind of travellers. No high-value visitor is interested in taking an absurd cable-car ride across the Mandovi, or helicopter and balloon rides. What does matter is personal safety, including zero tolerance to harassment of women. Strict fines must be levied for every instance of littering, urinating in public places, and rowdiness.
 
  The difference will be seen immediately. The tourism tsunami is a public emergency which should be the highest priority of Goa’s new administration.
 
 The writer is a photographer and widely-published author. The views expressed are his own
 
