A day after Centre announced a   on sale of   for slaughter at livestock markets, there have been mixed responses pouring in from all over the country. While animal welfare activists have lauded the move, it is a cause of worry for those whose livelihood revolves around the sale and consumption of cattle meat. In Bengaluru, there is a sizable demand for  , with plenty of restaurants serving buffalo meat. But with this directive from the central government, how will residents and restaurants respond? We find out…
Speaking about the shortage of beef supply that this ban will create, socialite   says, “The ban isn’t going to affect me personally — I won’t die without having beef. Having said that, I think in a democratic set up, one can’t dictate what we can eat, say or wear. It smacks of totalitarian regime. So, it is not a good precedent to set. This is what worries me. This seems like the beginnings of the end.”
 While the decision has been announced, no action has been taken, so restaurant owners are not feeling the effect of the ban. Still, there are plenty of reasons to be worried about it.
 “There is no final verdict in the ban as of now. So, business continues as usual for us until then. If this ban comes through, it will surely hit us hard as our outlet is famous for its beef burgers and steaks. Also, replacing beef with mutton in the menu has its own disadvantages. For that matter eating mutton affects cholesterol levels, unlike beef,” says a spokesperson of Thulp, a city restaurant chain.
 In fact, there are many who are either unaware of the directive, or prefer to wait till the ban takes full effect. “As of now, with the ban in its nascent stages, we really cannot comment what it will be like for us down the lane. There has of course been a lot of talk about it on social media, but we would prefer to wait for official instructions,” says one owner of a city pub, who did not wish to be named.
 With the supply of beef expected to drastically reduce because of the ban, it is bound to affect the demand and prices of other meat. R Suresh of Kitchen of Joy said, “We don’t serve beef, but I think this ban will lead to an increase in prices of mutton and chicken as their demand will go up.”
 
