NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: SP boss   laid down on Saturday a final offer of 99-100 seats for Congress with a clear “lump it or leave it” message, forcing the latter to either stage a climbdown or contests all 403 seats on its own in UP where it remains a minor player. 

 
  on Sunday, amid indications that a big section prefers survival over vanity but was having to contend with the party leadership’s unwillingness to be seen as having yielded to the young UP CM. SP sources claimed Congress chief   has taken charge of negotiations which remained stuck despite Priyanka Vadra despatching her personal emissary to cajole Akhilesh. 
 
 Sonia’s entry was swiftly interpreted as Congress’s decision to come down from its “non-negotiable” demand of 121 seats. Sonia had receded into the background, virtually vacating the stage for Rahul. Her entry is a last-gasp effort to revive negotiations and may yield a bonus in the form of a few more seats.
 
 In a shocker on Friday, 
  on seats held by Congress. Although Congress feels Akhilesh can be persuaded to up his offer by another 4 seats, the UP CM is insistent. 
 
 Congress members said accepting just around 100 seats would entail a compromise as the SP had earlier promised 121 seats. Party strategists feel they should accept the offer rather than risk electoral humiliation. So far, SP and BSP remain the most viable challengers for BJP’s bid to form the government in UP. Teaming up with Akhilesh offered Congress a way out of the political bind as it could project its sober plans as a “sacrifice for the cause of secularism”. Collapse of talks will shut out its option of “honourable exit”. 
 
 AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Saturday, “The decision on alliance will be known by Sunday morning.” Sources said the Akhilesh camp had conveyed to Congress that it could give more seats only at the cost of provoking resentment among SP ticket aspirants. 
 
 Senior SP MP 
  lashed out at Congress for being stubborn. “The alliance has almost broken... We told them we can’t contest less than 300 seats, we have 234 sitting MLAs, but Congress has not agreed,” he said. Meanwhile, key AICC managers finalised 140 candidates for first two phase of polls. A party leader said the idea of waiting the night for the decision instead of clinching it in a huff was meant to send a message across — that a tie-up is as much a necessity for SP as for Congress.
 
