Metric milers   of Uttar Pradesh and Kerala's   who were instrumental in India winning top spot on medals table in the recently concluded Asian Athletics Championships in Bhubaneswar do not find their names in the 24-member squad for the London   to be held in August 4 to 13.

 Chitra won 1500m gold and is automatic choice as continental winner but respective national federation need to send their entries and in this place the Athletics Federation of India ( ) should have done it.
 
 The selection committee including PT Usha, Shiny Wilson, Anju Bobby George of the AFI picked the team which will compete in 14 different disciplines.
 
  
  
 Attempts to talks to top AFI officials including Adille Sumariwala, CK Valson, and couple of selectors were in vain.
 
 However, NS Sijin, Chitra's personal coach, told TOI that she was in Chennai on Saturday for applying for visa. "We're in the dark of things," Sijin said about the late Saturday night development.
 
 The Indian team comprises 14 men include Muhammed Anas Y of Kerala in 400m and 4x400m relay squad who will participate in eight different disciplines in London while 10 women athletes will compete in six events.
 
 Shockingly, a 13-member support staff comprising team officials, coaches, masseurs and team doctor will also accompany the team which will depart for London in the first week of August.
 
 The other Kerala athletes in the squad include Ifan KT (men, 20 kn race walk), Gopi Thonakal; (men's marathon), relay runners Kunhu Mphammed amd Sachin Roby.
 
 Jisna Mathew, Anilda Thom,as and Anu Raghavan are the women's athletes and will compete in 4x400m relay only.
 
 Four from Kerala including Radhakrishnan Nair, Usha and Anju have been named as coaches while Tony Daniel is the manager of the team.
  
 
 
 
 
 20km walk: Irfan Kolothum Thodi, Devender Singh and Ganapathi Krishnan; 400m & 4x400m relay: Muhammed Anas Yahiya; 5000m & 10000m: Lakshmanan Govindnan; 110m hurdles: Siddhanth Thingalaya; Marathon: Gopi Thonakal; Javelin Throw: Neeraj Chopra and   Kang; 4x400m relay: Arokia Rajiv, Amoj Jacob, Kunhu Mohammed, Mohan Kumar Raja, Sachin Roby.
  
 
 20 km walk: Khushbir Kaur; 400m & 4x400m relay: Nirmala; Heptathlon: Swapna Barman; Marathon: Monika Motiram Athare; Javelin Throw: Annu Rani; 4x400m relay: Poovamma Raju Machettira, Jisna Mathew, Anilda Thomas, Jauna Murmu, Anu Raghavan.
  
 
 Vishal Kumar Dev, IAS, (team leader); Tony Daniel (team manager), Radhakrishnan Nair (deputy chief coach), Galina Bukharina (coach), PT Usha (coach), Surendra Singh (coach), Alexander Arstybashev (coach), Raj Mohan (coach), Bahadur Singh Chauhan (coach), Anju Bobby George (coach/observer), Arun Mendiratta (team doctor), Pawan Kumar (male masseur), Kinga Lidia (female masseur). 
 
