BATHINDA: Three days after a mob pelted stones at deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal’s cavalcade at a village in his constituency  , a shoe was hurled at his father and CM Parkash Singh Badal during an election meeting at Ratta Khera village in his constituency, Lambi, on Wednesday. Angered over the SAD-BJP government’s “failure” to crack cases of sacrilege of the Guru   in 2015, Ratta Khera resident Gurbachan Singh threw the shoe at the 89-year-old Akali leader.

 Gurbachan — a brother of Sarbat Khalsa-appointed Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib’s jathedar Amrik Singh Ajnala — did not miss his target. While eyewitnesses claimed that the shoe hit Badal’s spectacles, the CM said it just brushed him. An eyewitness said Gurbachan was about 10 metres away from Badal when he flung the shoe.
 
 Punjab Police arrested him on the spot. Gurbachan has been charged with sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 355(assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person) and 186 of the IPC (obstructing public servant from discharge of public functions) at Kabarwala police station in Lambi.
 
 Later, Badal termed the incident “unfortunate.” “Ratta Khera residents give me a lot of respect. I have sent lots of grants to control waterlogging in the village. Gurbachan was staying in Abohar for long. I do not know why he indulged in such an act; it needs to be condemned,” he said.
 
 The CM denied that the shoe hit his spectacles.
 
 SAD spokesperson   said AAP was behind the incident. “It is the handiwork of Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann. Gurbachan was seen at the stage of   near Amritsar on November 10, 2015. AAP owes an explanation,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Mann denied the allegations. “We have nothing to do with this and the stones being pelted at Sukhbir’s cavalcade on Sunday. It is just that the anger of people is coming out now,” he said.
 
 Ratta Khera sarpanch Habhinder Singh termed it an unfortunate incident. “Gurbachan is from our village, but had been residing in Jhorad Khera village for long. He came back a few days ago and is a farmer,” he said.
 
 Muktsar SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said Gurbachan was sitting in the second row in the audience. “He rose from his seat and threw the shoe towards Badal. The security person standing ahead of Badal tried to stop the shoe, but it touched his turban and fell on the ground. We have detained the person and are investigating the case,” he said.
 
 
 No justification for violence: Congress
 
 Former Union minister and Congress spokesperson   on Wednesday called the incident of a shoe being hurled at chief minister Parkash Singh Badal as a “highly condemnable act”. “No matter what the provocation might be, hurling a shoe at someone is only condemnable,” he said, adding that there could not be any justification. Tewari said while his party was strongly opposed to the Akali-BJP government for what it had done to Punjab, it would always like to defeat them (the SAD-BJP) in the battle of ballot and not violence.
 
 Unfortunate, says Kejriwal
 
 AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal condemned the shoe-throwing incident at Rattakhera village on Wednesday. “I can understand people’s anger on the streets against the Badal clan. But, such shoe-throwing incidents are unfortunate and condemnable. I suggest people use ballot to vote the Badals out,” he said.
 
 
