CHENNAI: The state government has decided to improve the   measures at the   in the city after visitors manhandled a PG doctor and a house surgeon on Thursday. The attack triggered a two-day   which had hit the functioning of the one of the biggest government hospital in the state for the last two days. 

 The protesters called off the agitation on Friday after a day-long negotiation with the state health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan who promised to set up "CCTVs at all vantage points at the hospital in a phased manner." 
 
 As an immediate step, cameras will be fixed at entry points, casualty, trauma wards, emergency wards, intensive care units and wards identified by the security committee of the hospital. The government would review all the demands made by the doctors and implement a few of them within the next 15days, he added."Only two attendants per patient (one person at a time) will be allowed and issue of visitor passes will be streamlined." 
 
 The three-hour impromptu strike and road by medicos working at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Thursday echoed in the Madras high court, which on Friday asked the government to ensure withdrawal of strikes by medicos in other parts of the state.
 
 "If any agitation is continuing as on date, the government has to take necessary steps to see that the agitation is withdrawn, and patients are treated properly, said Justice N Kirubakaran, concurring with the submissions of advocate S Duraisamy who sought guarantee for fair treatment for patients.
 
 Reiterating the need to ensure safety of doctors as well as their duty towards the patients in need, said, "The attack by the relatives of patients are not new, and it is a continuing one. This kind of attack on doctors or medical students should be stopped, whatever be the cause for the incident. However, it is the bounden duty of doctors, medical students and house surgeons to give appropriate, proper, necessary and timely treatment to the ailing patients who are brought to hospitals for urgent treatment. It is the duty of the government to see that such incidents are not repeated in future."
 
 
