 (35) was part of a five-member team that was taking out silt from a Rajakaluve in  , opposite Iskcon, and only wanted to avoid getting drenched when he decided to stay inside the earthmover when the skies opened up on Saturday night. But his decision proved fatal because he was not prepared for the gushing waters from the Dasarahalli catchment area of Vrishabhavathi River that pounded his vehicle. Shanth Kumar panicked and jumped into the water before the vehicle toppled, but only to be swept away. After 10 hours of incessant search operation, he is yet to be traced.

 Search operations have been suspended for the day and it is expected to be resumed on Monday morning with a team from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Madras Engineer Group (MEG), military unit at the helm. The volunteers suspect that the body could be lodged inside the maze of silt-filled drainage channels.
 
 Shanth Kumar is not the first victim of the city’s monsoon. The   by the  , the rainy season poses a serious threat to Bengalureans. Lack of proper planning, foresight and corruption are the main reasons people’s lives are regularly put in danger.
 
 The 40-member team searching for Shanth Kumar claimed that it had no idea about the body as on Sunday evening.
 
 “The drainage connects Mahalakshmi Layout to Mysore Road. We moved a team of 10 near Nandini Layout this morning but couldn’t find him there either. We then shifted the search operation to Magadi Road,” said Adinath, a volunteer with the search group.
 
 “The officials should have completed the work much before. One of the major problems in these storm water drains is the mixing of sewage with water. It has been going on for more than six years. The BBMP should complete it at the earliest and not drag it on during monsoon,” said Ashwin Mahesh, a Bengaluru-based civic activist.
 
 In October 2014, an eight-year-old girl, Geetha, had fallen into an open drain near Bannerghatta and was washed away. Her body was found two days later. In 2009, a six-year-old boy fell into an open drain and was swept away. His body was never recovered. The city is yet to get over the shock of the tragic death of Sanjana Singh, a 17-year-old girl who was crushed under a poorly constructed compound wall of government veterinary college near Sanjay Nagar in 2010. Though legal action was initiated against the contractors and government officials responsible for the shoddy work, Sanjana’s family still grieves for her.
 
 Saturday’s torrential rain did much damage to the city, bringing down trees and electricity poles, even walls. The rainfall started around 8.30 pm. The BBMP control room was flooded with complaints from stranded residents and commuters. “We received numerous calls between 8.45 pm and 10.30 pm, mostly about trees getting uprooted, water-logging, street light poles falling, and traffic jams. The alerted the departments concerned,” said an official who answered to the calls.
 
