KASAULI: Those visiting this picturesque hill town may not see long traffic jams in future as the   (MoD) has sanctioned Rs 15 crore for the much-awaited   project at the bus stand of the tourist destination. As of now, those visiting Kasauli have to face parking problem, especially during weekends when long traffic jams are a routine affair.

 The project for the multi-level parking was cleared by the ministry two days back. A formal announcement of the project was made by the Union defence minister  , who was in Kasauli on Saturday to attend an event organized by the cantonment board.
 
 The defence minister announced that, "When I was coming to Kasauli on Saturday, I was rightly reminded by the director general (defence estate) that there has been a request for parking facility at the bus stand. It was a long-pending demand, I am glad to have conceded this and Rs 15 crore has been sanctioned for this project. The multi-level parking facility at the Kasauli bus stand would be of great help for people visiting this serene hill station. I am glad that defence and defence-related organizations are playing a great role to keep this area clean."
 
 With the sanction of Rs 15 crore, the project is expected to be completed in the next two and half years. According to the officials of the cantonment board, all formalities related to the project, including architectural planning and technology, has been approved. "The tenders would be floated for allotment of work by next month. It would be a three-storey parking having capacity of parking 350 vehicles at a time. This capacity would be in addition to the existing space available for the parking of vehicles in the cantonment board area," the officials told TOI.
 
 Kasauli is one of the most sought after tourist destinations. As per figures provided by the Kasauli cantonment board, from May to August the inflow of tourists in the town is 600-700 everyday.
 
 However, the parking is available only for around 200 vehicles at different places inside the cantonment board area, which is inadequate and causes huge traffic congestion during peak tourist season. After paying heavy entry fee in the cantonment board area, tourists have to park their vehicles on the side berms designated as parking space by the board.
 
