MUMBAI: A Rs 200-crore housing redevelopment project in Bandra’s upscale   is stuck as a newly constituted expert committee of the   ministry has ruled that the sanctioned height of the tower be reduced from 106m to 92m. 

 Sale component flats in the project are being quoted at Rs 1 lakh per sq ft. TOI reported on Sunday that 70 buildings near the airport, many decades old, have been told to cut height by the aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).
 
 The development has come as a jolt to members of Navroze Cooperative Housing Society, whose building has already been demolished, as well as the builder, Kryshnajay Developers.
 
 The builder, who has challenged the decision in the Bombay high court, said he may be forced to lop off from the plan the top four sea-facing flats, which were to be sold in the open market after rehousing the original members on the lower floors. 
 
 The under-construction building is 3.25km from the end of the Mumbai airport’s runway closest to it. Incidentally, two other towers on the same road have a height of 106 m: Sandhu Palace and industrialist Anil Ambani’s new residence, which were cleared when the UPA government was in power.
 
 “We started work after civil aviation authorities in Delhi cleared a height of 106m (19 floors). But the expert committee, constituted in 2015, rejected the earlier permission and drastically reduced the height,” said builder Ajay Ashar, who is partnering with Kishor Bajaj of Badasaab Group on the tower, which has already reached 28m. Before the Delhi clearance, civil aviation authorities in Mumbai had cleared a height of 56.9m.
 
 The project’s architect, Manoj Daisaria, said the tower’s height was proposed according to existing buildings in the vicinity. “Now, suddenly airport authorities want to change the norms. This has badly affected ongoing projects,” he said.
 
 Last Tuesday, the Navroze society issued a notice to all members, saying the builder was “not interested in the ongoing project anymore”. “They may stop construction work any moment and also intend to stop rental payments of members with immediate effect.”
 
 Society chairman Navroz Aftab said he hopes the high court will clear the project. “The builder has informed us he will have to slow down till the issue is resolved.”
 
 The developer said he will accommodate all 24 members in the new tower as stipulated in the redevelopment agreement. “We will absorb the loss and redesign the building,” said Ashar. He said the sale flats on the top floors will be moved to a lower level and overlook Pali Hill Road. “We will have to reduce the price of these flats by at least 30% because they will no longer command a sea-facing premium.”
 
 The ground-plus-five storey Navroze was built in the late 1970s at a time Pali Hill was mainly a bungalow enclave. In 2012, the society signed a redevelopment agreement, by which they were to get 40% more space. The 24 members have also been given a corpus fund of Rs 11 crore and a monthly rental of Rs 1.08 lakh each for accommodation till the tower is completed.
 
