KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday gave a major push to infrastructure investment, allocating Rs 12,180 crore for road, power and water supply projects in the state. A big chunk of this will go into constructing 12 road projects in Kolkata, including six flyovers and an elevated corridor. If they do materialise, it will significantly reduce commute time and remove bottlenecks that lead to traffic snarls. 

 On the city list is a controversial elevated corridor from EM Bypass to New Town that cuts through the East Kolkata Wetlands, an internationally-recognised Ramsar site where multiple legislations and court orders disallow construction activity. 
 
 BT Road in north Kolkata, which is both a lifeline and nightmare for commuters between the city and Baranagar-Sodepur-Barrackpore belt, gets a fillip as a stretch will be made six-lane with three vehicular underpasses to ease traffic congestion.
 
 Incidentally, the three-year deadline announced by the chief minister coincides with the government’s second term and sets the stage for   to showcase the development while bidding for a third innings. Some, however, question the practicality of the timeframe, given the experience of time and cost overruns in infrastructure projects in the city.
 
 “In 2011-12, the budgetary allocation in infrastructure was Rs 2,225.75 crore. In five years, we increased it to Rs 12,000 crore. In 2017-18, the budgetary allocation was Rs 20,155.61 crore. Now we have decided to increase the allocation and made a further provision of Rs 12,180 crore to build roads, bridges, flyovers, water supply and power development projects. All of them will be completed within three years,” Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Friday.
 
 She also said a proposal had been sent to the Union railway ministry to consider a bullet-train service between Durgapur and either Howrah or Sealdah that will bring down the commute time from over two-and-a-half hours to under an hour. 
 
 While the list of projects statewide has renovation of power plants, installation of water treatment plants, warehouseses for foodgrains and four-laning of highways and expressways, it is the slew of transport projects in the city that hogged the limelight. 
 
 The most ambitious of them is a mix of flyover and rail overbridges that seek to connect Taratala to Jadavpur PS via   and Anwar Shah Road. The project comprises three rail overbridges/ flyovers. The first one will be between Taratala to Tollygunge Phanri, the second one between Phanri and Anwar Shah Road and the third from Anwar Shah Road till Jadavpur PS. It currently takes nearly an hour to do the 8.3km distance. Travel time will reduce to 30 minutes after the project is implemented.
 
 However, the Rs 270 crore allocation made to this project is less than Rs 375 crore allocated for a 2.3km flyover from Ganesh Chandra Avenue to MG Road on Chittaranjan Avenue. A 1.8km flyover across   crossing on APC Road is also on the anvil. The amount sanctioned for this project is Rs 350 crore. Then there is a flyover on   for Rs 248 crore. Though the feasibility for this flyover hasn’t been done, sources said it was likely to be between   and Golpark. 
 
 Also, two ramps have been sanctioned, one from the Sealdah flyover to the station for Rs 21 crore and the other branching out from the Maa flyover into Syed Amir Ali Avenue near Gurusaday Road for Rs 68 crore.
 
 In Salt Lake Sector V, Rs 120 crore has been sanctioned for a 1.8 km flyover between College More and the approach bridge to New Town. 
 
 The biggest allocation in the city though is made to the controversial elevated corridor over wetlands that requires construction of 146 piers on the protected site. The project, which has been challenged at the Calcutta high court through a PIL, has been allocated Rs 610 crore.
 
 BT Road in north Kolkata gets Rs 400 crore for six-laning between Chiria More and Dunlop and construction of three underpasses of 600 metre each at Chiria More, Sinthi More and Tobin Road crossings. 
 
 In all, Rs 2,462 crore has been allocated for the transport projects in Kolkata, of which Rs Rs 2,062 crore is for flyovers and ramps. 
 
 On the city’s outskirts, Rs 300 crore has been allocated for four-laning of Basanti Highway, which will reduce accidents and make life easier for techies travelling to the IT park at Bantala. Some 42km of Kalyani Expressway will also be four-laned at a cost of Rs 1,550 crore.
 
 The single-biggest doze of investment though goes into the four-laning of 23km of Barajaguli Kapa Mogra state highway via Iswar Gupta Setu at a whopping Rs 1,700 crore.
 
 The power sector also gets a major push with funds provided for renovation of three units at Kolaghat thermal power station and two units at Sagardighi power station at a cost of Rs 832 crore and Rs 847 crore,respectively. 
 
 In water supply, Rs 137 crore has been sanctioned for a 10-illion gallon per day capacity water treatment plant at Padmapukur in Howrah town. Water supply schemes in Dankuni, Uttarpara, Konnnagar, Rishra, Sreerampore, Baidyabati and Champdani municipality get Rs 1,368 crore.
 
