AHMEDABAD: The   took a beating in the October-December period as a slump in sales of residential units on account of   resulted in an estimated revenue loss of Rs 500 crore to developers. The latest report by global consultancy firm Knight Frank states that city's residential market saw sales and new launches drop by 43% and 69% respectively during the fourth quarter of 2016.

 As per the report, 2,800 residential units were sold in Ahmedabad in Q4 2016 as against 4,900 units during the corresponding period in 2015. Similarly, new launches also plummeted to just 1,200 units from 3,890.
 
 “India's real estate mar ket suffered a revenue loss of Rs 20,000 crore after demonetisation. The figure for Ahmedabad is Rs 500 crore,“ said  , national director-advisory services,  . The residential units' sales in Ahmedabad market would have reached 5,000-6,000 units in Q4 if there had been no demonetisation drive.
 
 “I am not sure about the amount of losses but demonetisation has certainly had an adverse impact on realtors' revenues,“ said Dipak Patel, president, GIHED-CREDAI. October was the only solace in Q4 2016 when the sales volume witnessed some positive traction due to the start of the festive season. Demonetisation brought the market to a complete standstill in Q4. Developers refrained from an nouncing any new launches and buyers turned extremely cautious before committing on purchases.The year 2016 would have been marginally better than 2015 had there been no demonetisation move, as the sales numbers for the first nine months were showing a positive trend,“ said  , branch director Ahmedabad, Knight Frank India. Now, demand revival is very critical for real estate sector. Lowering of interest rates, already corrected prices, likely incentives in the general budget and improvement in income levels are expected to revive demand. “However, uncertainty is likely to be seen in the market for over the next two quarters (January to June),“ said Mehrotra. “Enquiries have begun pouring in for affordable homes and sales have started again,“ added Dipak Patel.
 
