NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Political parties braced for a nail-biting finale on Saturday, when votes are counted for the  , and the mood ranged from cautious optimisim to trepidation in the eight assembly constituencies of NCR. 

 Home minister Rajnath Singh’s son and BJP’s Noida candidate Pankaj Singh sounded confident, with the exit polls keeping BJP ahead. 
 
 “On Friday night, I met people and planned for Holi gathering. I will visit the poll counting venue for some time on Saturday. We will decide our move once the results are declared,” he said
 
 Sunil Chaudhury, Singh’s rival and SP’s Noida candidate, said his party workers are also jubilant. “I held a meeting with the party workers and vote counting agents in the evening. On the counting day, I will visit the local temple and offer prayers. I will take blessings of my mother and visit Phool Mandi. If I win, I will collect the certificate and peacefully return home with party workers,” he said.
 
 In Jewar, the two-time winner, BSP’s Ved Ram Bhati, was busy meeting his party workers late on Friday evening. Rahul Bhati, his personal assistant, said, “We have won the elections two times in a row. We will repeat the win.”
 
 However, Bhati may have a tough competition from BJP’s Thakur Dhirendra Singh this time. Singh had contested the last election on a Congress ticket, and lost to Bhati by just a few thousand votes. “I am hopeful this time,” Singh said .
 
 The candidates and party workers in Dadri are also making similar preparations. The main contest would be among Tejpal Nagar of BJP, Satveer Gurjar of BSP and Sameer Bhati of Congress. 
 
 In Sahibabad and Ghaziabad, supporters of many candidates anticipating their win have made elaborate preparations to celebrate victory. “I am smelling victory for my candidate Sunil Sharma of the BJP from Sahibabad constituency and I have already ordered 100kg of sweets to celebrate the occasion,” said Pawan, a supporter.
 
 Sharma himself was guarded in his response. “I am keeping my fingers crossed but deep down I know I am going to win as this time there is a Modi wave and even the exit polls have predicted a BJP win in the state,” he said.
 
 In Ghaziabad, sitting MLA Suresh Bansal of BSP has a challenger in BJP’s Atul Garg who came second in the last assembly election. “All exit polls are a farce and this time around, Behenji will make a comeback and I am confident of retaining the  ,” he said.
 
