Looking at the famous   in Delhi, which depicts Mahatma Gandhi’s iconic Dandi March, a group of African students in the city has only one question to ask, “Isn’t India the country in whose independence, non-violence played a crucial role? Have Indians completely forgotten Mahatma Gandhi’s values?”

 Africans in the city are often tagged as "drug peddlers", "habshis", and even “cannibals” by the Indian community. Be it in their classrooms, on the roads or while commuting, they are subject to discrimination.
 
 After a teenager in   died of a suspected drug overdose last week, African students living in that area were accused of supplying drugs to the student. Following the teenager’s death, the nearby residents not only attacked African students living in that area, but also attacked a group of them at Noida’s Ansal Plaza. While this jolted the African community living in Delhi-NCR once again, the African students ask us that though they may have learnt to live with our prejudices, will India ever accept them beyond their colour?
 
 
 
 "People like   Jr considered Gandhi their role model. Many global leaders, including the Dalai Lama, consider him the pioneer of the non-violent struggle. Wherever he is today, he will not be happy to see this. The nation, which got its independence without resorting to violence, and thinks that plants and animals also have a right to live – how can they treat a section of people like this?" questions Dennis Aggrey from Nigeria, a student of network security at Stratford University in Delhi.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Blan Chard Bata from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and a BBA student from Mahatma Gandhi University, adds, "We are living in a paradox. A country which gained its independence through non-violence is treating a race of people in this way. Nelson Mandela was Gandhi’s disciple, and he wasn’t an animal, then how come you compare us with animals?"
 
 Another Nigerian national, Presidoe Okuguni, who is also a student at Stratford University, and is the public relations officer at the Association of South African students in India (AASI), calls the recent attacks a shameful act. "Indians all over the world keep talking about racism and discrimination, but back home, they are doing the same thing. For me, it is hypocritical. When a little boy sees me on a street, he starts running, as if he is running for his life. It makes me think, ‘Does he think that I am going to kill him or eat him up?’ I don’t blame the kid, I blame the people who have told him all of this. It is time India wakes up to the reality," says Okuguni.
 
 
 
 'We have good and bad people everywhere. If people want to judge us, they should be able to do that according to their own perception and not by the assumptions made by others. The need of the hour is to learn to live in peace. I don’t see Indians asking questions, and clearing their perceptions about us. We will be happy to clear doubts they have," says Rotrigue Kazanba from the Congo, a student of Information Technology at Stratford University. Another student and Nigerian national, Michael Kemya, adds, "Indians need to accept that there are other people in this world as well. They are not the only ones living in this world because when they see us walking on the streets – they think ‘what’s this?’. Not even, ‘who is this?’. They look at us as ‘something’ which is not a human being."
 
