AURANGABAD:   of Osmanabad district has been actively participating in the development of her village since August last year.

 And the reason for the change in her outlook is the little master Sachin Tendulkar, who adopted the village with an aim to develop it. “He agreed to adopt our village with a condition-local women should actively participate in the proposed development. It is a golden opportunity for us and we cannot let it go,” said the 30-year-old who dreams of becoming teacher some day. 
 
 Just like the paddle sweep and straight-drive that bore his trademark on the field, Master Blaster Tendulkar has also left his hallmark while executing the   
 
 Tendulkar has envisioned   falling in the drought-prone area with construction of school, water supply project and cement roads getting top priority.
 
 All these works have a proposed financial outlay of nearly Rs 4.04 crore and will be completed under Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS).
 
 Speaking with ToI, Ayush Prasad, Osmanabad district assistant collector, said that earlier, participation of women was missing while charting out development plan for Donja. 
 
 “Tendulkar and his team were not happy with this particular fact and told us that they could contemplate pulling out from the village if it continues to be missing. Followed by this, local women were sensitised using different means and made part of decision process in proposed development work,” he said. 
 
 Donja, which is located nearly 105km from Osmanabad and around 25am from Paranda taluka, has a population of over 4,000. Inadequate water supply has been a perennial issue in the area.
 
 Jumman Mujawar, a 28-year driver, said, “We have high hopes for the improvement in water supply due to the adoption of the village by Tendulkar.”
 
 “The entire village has only one overhead tank, which is in a bad shape. The pipeline supplying water to our village has become too old to ensure smooth supply and half of the village does not get water properly. We hope all these ordeals will come to an end soon,” he said. 
 
 Authorities said that tenders for infrastructural works proposed by Tendulkar under the central scheme would be floated at national-level on February 17.
 
 “We were waiting for the elections to end for floating tenders. We expect actual work on these projects will begin as early as March,” the authorities said. 
 
 A series of special village-level meetings have taken place since the village was adopted by Tendulkar last year in August. A team of TATA Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai had also camped in Donja for 27 days to interact with all localites and identify areas of development.
 
 “New school building will replace existing building that is over 70-years-old. Seeing the plight of children studying in classroom without fans, Tendulkar has already sent 16 ceiling fans for the school,” Prasad said, adding that proposed water supply scheme aims to provide potable water round-the-clock to each household.
 
 Osmanabad district collector Prashant Narnaware and chief executive officer of Osmanabad zilla parishad Anand Rayate have been also associated with the planning and execution of Sansad Aadarsh Gram Yojna.
 
 Tendulkar has also adopted Puttamraju Kandriga village in Andhra Pradesh. He could not be reached for his comments. An email and SMS sent to his personal team members remained unanswered.
 
