HOWRAH: The last morning of the Bengali calender saw state-of-the-art technology bond with centuries-old tradition, when 500-plus engineers and workers used the most modern machinery to bore under the Hooghly but only after paying obeisance to the river and earth in the form of   and   at   on Friday. Shortly after, the TBMs moved into a layer of soil 13m below the river bed. 

 Seven Pandits led by Acharya Surendra Pathak from Varanasi offered the puja followed by a grand Ganga aarti. However,   (KMRC) officials were conspicuously absent at the festivity.
 
 “It is an important day after a very long period of lull and despondence. This is, significantly, the nation’s first  . It was both a celebration of our collective efforts, a salute to thousands of workers who are unsung heroes and a prayer for successful completion of the tunnel. This river is revered as a goddess and so the puja is to offer prayer as we would be working below the river bed,” said Virender Kaul, the project manager of Transtonnelstroy Afcons.
 
 The puja began sharp at 7am. During the rituals, the priests gave floral and sweets as offerings (argha) to the river. Then there were elaborate ‘aarti’ and the Ramkrishnapur Ghat nearly resembled the famous Dashswamedh Ghat in Varanasi. 
 
 “Even our colleagues from abroad took part in the puja with equal fervor. Barren Paul, who is a TBM expert, paid obeisance and chanted mantras,” said an Afcon official.
 
 After the puja, engineers took the shanti jal (holy water) in a ghot (copper pot) inside the tunnel to sprinkle it on the TBM.
 
 “The worship of Maa Ganga is one of the most important rituals before any great work. It assumes greater importance since it will be a tunnel under the river. Ganga aarti is to pay homage to the greatness of this river,” said Acharya Surendra Pathak. The waters of the Ganga, it is said, is magical and can even cure diseases, ailments and mental illness and this puja is performed by millions worldwide who seek Devi Ganga’s blessings, he added.
 
 “Significantly, after an intermittent halt due to some issues safeguarding DRM building at Howrah Station, the TBM started rolling again on the day of Christmas and now we are entering the river bed on Poila Baishakh, another auspicious day,” pointed out Kaul.
 
 Afcons Engineers, however, prayed harder for the rest of the project length after reaching Strand Road. Uncertainty looms large for the stretch between Strand Road and Mahakaran. The stretch requires clearance from the National Monuments Authority. But that is yet to come to KMRC. “A lot of time was wasted over the alignment and land acquisition. TBM cannot stand still after reaching the east bank of the river. If the clearance does not come, stopping the TBM will assume catastrophic proportion,” said engineers.
 
