The BMC is planning a helicopter service a first for the country--for airlifting seriously injured accident victims to select hospitals. It is also considering to use the air ambulance service for organ transport. The BMC has started identifying possible landing points and says it will soon invite an expression of interest (IOE) from helicopter operators. The service will be free, though experts have raised doubts on the project's feasibility.

 Recently, three firefighters suffered severe burns while rescuing a bird near   railway station. Their journey to the National Burns Centre, Airoli, was hindered by heavy traffic, which delayed treatment, perhaps resulting in the eventual death of one. This prompted the civic administration to go to the drawing board to plan the helicopter service.
 
 Helicopter landing and take-off spots being looked at are mainly open grounds like  , an open plot adjoining the Bandra-end of the Sea Link, and a ground at BKC. Hospital rooftops are also being looked at.
 
 Experts call the plan ambiguous, and say it can materialise only if the BMC examines “all factors“, especially costs. Capt  , president (western region),  , said, “Who will pay for the air ambulance services?
 
 The fire brigade may foot the bill for its personnel, but if the helicopter has to be used to airlift other patients, how will payments be settled? A pre-booked twin-engine helicopter charter flight will cost approximately Rs 1.25 lakh per hour and a single-engine flight Rs 80,000 an hour. Even if the flight lasts only a few minutes, the operator will charge for one hour, which is the minimum payment. So, who will foot the bill?“ The BMC's plan was prompted by additional municipal commissioner I A Kundan and chief fire officer P   visiting the injured firefighters in hospital. There they were told that in such cases survival chances are good only if specialized treatment is given in the first couple of hours. This led to a discussion with civic chief  , who asked Kundan to make a plan.Kundan gave the particulars of the plan during a discussion on the deceased firefighter in the civic standing committee's meeting on Tuesday.
 
