HYDERABAD: Which is the  ?

 Is it the traditional ghee with its sweet aroma, the 'tasty' Vanaspati, the 'sticky' palm oil supplied by fair price shops or the 'healthy' rice bran oil? The answer is none.
 
 The latest data on nutritional composition of Indian foods published by the city-based   (NIN) shows that the `humble' safflower oil has the   and the second lowest content of bad fat. This makes safflower oil the best bet in Indian kitchens.
 
 The `Indian Food Composition Tables', which was released in Hyderabad on Friday by  , lists as many as 13 edible oils with their fatty acid profiles. The NIN has profiled 526 Indian foods including oils with minute details like vitamin D content. The latest work is an update of a similar but limited exercise carried out in 1989. The oils analysed by the NIN are coconut oil, corn oil, cotton seed oil, gingelly oil, mustard oil, palm oil, rice bran oil, safflower oil, safflower oil (blended), soya bean oil, sunflower oil, ghee and Vanaspati.
 
 Though the NIN did not give ranking for oils, safflower oil emerges as the best cooking medium if the total polyunsaturated fatty acids (TPFA), total mono-saturated fatty acids (TMFA) and total saturated fatty acids (TSFA) are taken into account. Ex perts have classified TPFA and TMFA as good fats and TSFA as bad fat. Safflower oil contains the highest TMFA content (76.78%) among all oils analysed. It has a TMFA content of 14.04 per cent and a very low level (9.19 per cent) of TSFA. The higher the content of TPFA and TMFA, the better the quality of the oil from the health perspective. The lower the content of saturated fat, the healthier the oil. Safflower oil passes all these parameters. The second best oil is the sunflower oil, followed by mustard oil and soya bean oil. The popular rice bran oil stands at the eighth position while the all-time favourite ghee at the 11th position. Vanaspati and coconut oil occupy the lowest 12th and 13th slots based on their good and bad fat content.
 
 The World Health Organisation (WHO) warns that the “risk of developing non-communicable diseases can be lowered by reducing saturated fats to less than 10 per cent of total energy intake.
 
