BATHINDA: Congress candidate   in Bathinda got lifted after his  , Rhea Badal and niece   are in the city upon getting break from their respective universities in US, UK and are sweating it out in bone chilling weather for actively campaigning for Manpreet for the upcoming elections.
The trio are treading the arduous paths in SUVs and reaching out to  .They are also embracing even the poor illiterate persons and encouraging them to vote in the elections.
 
 Arjun is pursuing graduation coursed in political science and history from New York University (NYU) and is preparing to start course in laws at Cambridge University in UK after completing his graduation in August. Rhea is pursuing media, culture and communications course at New York University whereas Mannat is doing course in international relations and Persian from University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
 
 Arjun (21) and Rhea (20) have earlier too have campaigned for their father in 2014 parliament elections from Bathinda constituency but Mannat is new entrant. Though avid English speakers,they interacts in chaste Punjabi and starts the talk with `Sat Sri Akal' (mode of greeting in Punjabi) and thus immediately makes connection with people.
 
 “Pursuing rough and tumble course of electioneering apart from our own courses at NYU are not easy but we enjoy meeting people of various hues and try to understand the problems of people.“ said Arjun and Rhea.Being student of pol science I am keen to draw differences between electoral scenes in US and in India and learning about intricacies of electoral politics.“ added Arjun.
 
 The trio also takes pot shots at members of their extended family especially estranged uncle Sukhbir Badal and accuses him of not providing avenues to youth to shape up their future.
 
 “The election campaigning is more concentrated on personal issues rather than focusing on issues like lack of education, healthcare facilities, eradication of drug addiction“, Rhea said.
 
 “Politics is not all about staying in power but it is about framing people oriented policies and help out the needy. People need the rule of law to prevail but these things are being relegated to the backburner and personal agenda is being more pursued“, said Rhea and Mannat. “ As we go through the statistics, Punjab used to be better place to live but now it is becoming a den of anti-social elements and the state is in complete mess with people suffering on many counts.“, says Arjun pointing towards ruling of Badal family failing in providing good governance.
 
