BENGALURU: In a renewed attempt to   at source and mitigate the city's  , the BBMP is set to penalize residents for not segregating their garbage while handing it to  

 While the move was welcomed wholeheartedly by residents across the city, many are cynical about the success of the new system, considering that it's been a failure in the past.
 
 D S Rajshekar, president of Citizens' Action Forum, said the BBMP cannot continue to blame the citizens for all the city's garbage problems, without first ensuring that it has in place proper infrastructure to make the system a success.
 
 “They have been enacting this drama of announcing fines for years now. This time, they are saying it will be linked to property identification (PID) details to ensure fine collection, but the million-dollar question is: how has BBMP bettered infrastructure to demand such stringent fines? They have said what action will be taken against residents but what will they do if contractors err? They need to empower RWAs and push for ward committees so that a system of checks and balances can be in place,“ said the resident of Kalyan Nagar.
 
 Hari Narayana, a resident of Lavelle Road, said while residents have been segregating waste, commercial establishments are breaking the rules. “Offices and restaurants simply pack their waste in black plastic bags, which are picked up by private players who don't really care if the waste is segregated or not,“ he said.
 
 Other residents raised similar concerns about what happens to their carefully segregated waste once it's been picked up by sanitation workers.
 
 In Whitefield, contractors are the ones who seem to be causing problems, said Devyani Trivedi, a resident and member of Whitefield Rising. “While a majority of the residents segregate their waste, the contractors ultimately mix it up again. In fact, the contractors don't even come to the houses every day,“ she said.
 
 But residents like Sneha Nandihal are not convinced that anything will actually materialize. “I will believe it only when I see it happening.From our side, we have been doing it all this while and it is the BBMP which hasn't taken any proactive measures. Since there is a separate solid waste management cell for about a month now, we need to wait and see how it functions, how well staffed it is and how much longer the engineering department will have to do both jobs,“ said the resident of Indiranagar.
 
 Kala Seetharam Sridhar, a professor at the Centre for Research in Urban Affairs, Institute for Social and Economic Change, said awareness drives for both residents and sanitation workers were a must for successful implementation.
 
 “This is one of the best initiatives. However, it has to be accompanied with several drives and public meetings to teach people how to segregate. For the public, the impulse to segregate should come from within. Pamphlets should be issued, sensitizing the public to the cons of not separating their waste as well as the pros. Wet waste can and should be used in composting, that many organic composting companies in the city are already doing for a fee. Even dry waste can be collected by a vendor who will pay you for it. The BBMP should follow international standards and protocol in these matters and follow the example of other countries,“ she said.
 
