BENGALURU: As investigation into multiple incidents of alleged molestation that marred  's heart -MG Road and Brigade Road -inches ahead, questions such as what went wrong, how should it have been handled and could it have been handled at all rent the air.

 IT firm CEOs have resigned over allegations of molestation and harassment of subordinates, top cops have indulged in unacceptable behaviour, politicians, religious heads and criminals have all figured in cases of molesting women, and not any of these incidents can be condoned or used to term Saturday's events as alright.
 
 But sociologists and psychiatrists say these examples point to two things: One, that almost anyone could have intentions of hurting a woman or taking advantage of her when she is most vulnerable. Two, the tendency to carry out such actions is more when one feels he can get away with it. And a crowd gives people wanting to carry out such actions a perfect opportunity -if the anonymity convinces them that they can get away ,a diverse set of vulnerable women appear as easy targets.
 
 Bengaluru police are yet to ascertain the exact number of people present during the revelry on Saturday . The estimates range from 20,000 to 50,000, while some said it could have been more than 30,000.
 
 The exact figures are not relevant here. Irrespective of which one of this is accurate, the cops -only 1,500 -were outnumbered. There would have been one cop for every 13 revellers if the number was 20,000 and one for every 33 if it was 50,000.
 
 “One must also understand that even if we were 1,500 cops, the situation wasn't routine.One cop per 13 people, or even 20 is a good ratio under normal circumstances, but not when such a huge crowd gathers at one place,“ a senior police officer said, adding that a crowd is unpredictable, and often uncontrollable.
 
 Dr  , president,  , who lived in Bengaluru for five years, says: “In case of any gathering for celebrations, whether it is Connaught Place in Delhi or Brigade Road in Bengaluru, a section of the crowd always goes berserk, doing things it shouldn't. A good 15% of any crowd exhibits such tendency. And, alcohol just makes things worse.“
 
 Saturday's incident may have held a mirror to the horrific times we live in, but revelry and indulgence in alcohol are not the only motivators for such behaviour as   (name changed), 33, told TOI. Now an adult, Karen recollected a horrific incident that happened to her as a school kid that has forced her to refrain from attending the  's Feast, an annual 11-day religious festival.
 
 “I wasn't wearing a short skirt, I wasn't sending out any signals after getting drunk and neither were the men drunk. We were all heading to pray when I was groped and molested. I think such men are everywhere.It has been many years since the incident but I still don't attend the procession during the feast,“ she said. There are also anecdotal evidence to prove such incidents at other gatherings.
 
 “Sociologically , we can view this from two perspectives.First, where people are underexposed or not exposed to certain aspects at all. Like sex, for example, is seldom discussed and people who are underexposed or not exposed at all have a greater tendency to behave in ways they should not when they are put in alien situations. The second one is over exposure to things, which makes people who see, read and hear about things want to do it. Easy availability of pornography , for instance, could be one factor. But nothing can be said conclusively about a crowd,“ said sociologist Samata Deshmane.
 
 Every New Year eve, people from various parts of the state, including from remote north Karnataka taluks come to Bengaluru, some out of sheer excitement and others out of compulsive want to witness the celebrations.
 
 “A crowd, especially in the night, turns into a fertile ground for such behaviour. Also, it is proven that the biological rhythm is different at night for all of us that makes certain inhibitions go away ,“ said Nimhans director B N Gangadhar.
 
