

 An accused arrested by the Mumbai Police Crime Branch in a car theft case has confessed to the shooting of Bahujan   (BSP) leader   (60) from Allahabad, UP. The Crime Branch arrested   (40) – a seasoned car thief from Kurla on charges of stealing vehicles. During the course of his interrogation, Qureshi admitted to the murder. He, allegedly, had political ambitions and wanted to start contest elections from the same constituency in UP as Shami.
 
 On March 18, Shami was shot dead by unknown assailants in an industrial locality in Allahabad while he was entering his house.
 
 Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked the then newly-appointed Police Commissioner   to look into the case and a reward of Rs 5000 was announced.
 
 On Monday, Sanjay Bhapkar, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Crime Branch got a tip-off about Qureshi hiding near Christian village in Kurla and he immediately informed his superior Additional Commissioner of Police, K MM Prasanna who formed a team to nab Qureshi.
 
 Bhapkar managed to intercept and detain Qureshi from Kurla. “He is a record vehicle and car tape thief and has several cases registered against him in the city. He had political ambitions in Uttar Pradesh but Shami was coming in his way and so he along with his friends Abhishek Yadav and Dinesh Mourya decided to murder him,” said Bhapkar.
 
 The Mumbai Police has informed the UP police about the arrest and a team from UP has left for Mumbai to take custody of Qureshi.
 
 Officers said Mohammed Shami too had a criminal background. He was known as Dabbang in Mau Aima, in Allahabad and had several cases registered against him including that of murder, attempt to murder and robbery. He had defeated Qureshi’s partner-in-crime Abhishek Yadav to become president of BSP. Shami retained the post for five consecutive terms and this had angered Qureshi since he wanted to replace him.
 
 Qureshi then along with Yadav and another friend Dinesh Mourya, hatched the plan to eliminate the BSP leader to further his political aspirations.
 
 The cops said several criminals from the city have become small-time politicians in UP and Qureshi wanted to be one of them.
 
