CHENNAI: Making a potent statement about the   is the second most tenacious thing   loves doing on a  .The first one, for the 23-yearold, is racing like a tornado.

 He demonstrates this wherever necessary -at railway stations that have to be highlighted for their lack of ramps; in rehabilitation centres for spinal cord injured patients, and at his native village near Gaya,  , where he champions every cause from education to electricity .
 
 Kumar's life took a tragic turn in June 2011 when he suffered a fall and injured the spinal cord. From regularly playing games like kabaddi, competitively , and cricket, he was abruptly pushed into being attended for every task -from going to the toilet to standing up on his own.
 
 Six years on, he is looking to raise `4.25 lakh for a worldclass racing wheelchair to compete in the 2020 Paralympics.
 
 Helping him do this is Ganga Trust, a Chennai-based NGO that is leading the campaign on crowdfunding platform FuelADream.
 
 “I can't walk, but I have proven to myself that I can do everything a person with no injuries can -if not better. I have spent years training to participate in wheelchair marathons, and the Paralympics will demonstrate what I spend my life preaching to so many people -it's your body , you can make it do what you want,“ said Kumar in a phone call from Chandigarh, where he's stationed as a living skills trainer at a rehabilitation centre for the Ganga Trust. Besides suffering from a lack of bladder and bowel control, an impaired sexual functioning and fluctuating body temperatures, people with spinal cord injuries have negligible medical treatment to look forward.
 
 “Shailesh is easily the most independent person with a spinal cord injury in India. He has ascertained his potential by travelling alone to different parts of the country and empowering people with spinal cord injuries,“ said Vaidyanathan, co-founder of Ganga Trust and a spinal cord injured person himself.
 
 Kumar has also been a half marathoner on a wheelchair, a full marathoner on a tricycle, and finished a 10 km backto-back wheelchair run for the Swachh Ability Run The new wheelchair will come with an advanced mechanism and can be propelled to move much faster with every push than a regular wheelchair. As of this moment, Shailesh's campaign has raised `63,152 on FuelADream.
 
 “Shailesh is displaying amazing progress. We've been told that he could easily represent India in the Paralympics if he has the right equipment,“ said Ranganath Thota founder of FuelADream.
 
 
