 Prime Minister   today flags off the country's third   from his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, he said in a tweet last night.

  
  
 
 
  The deluxe train, which will connect Varanasi with Surat and Vadodara in  , will be launched at 3.30 pm by the Prime Minister using a remote control via videoconferencing.
 
 
  In its maiden journey, the train will be run as a special train departing from Vadodara on Friday and reaching Varanasi on Saturday. Union Railways minister   would be present in Vadodara and Minister of State for Railways Manoj Sinha would be there at Surat.
 
 
 The new weekly train will start from Varanasi every Friday and from Vadodara every Wednesday. The 1,531-km journey between the two cities will take 27 hours and 30 minutes.
 
 
 The Mahamana Express will have 18 coaches - one AC 1st Class coach, two Second AC, eight sleeper and four general coaches, one pantry car and two guard brake vans. There is no AC-3 tier coach in the train.
 
 
  With plush interiors, the Mahamana Express includes ergonomically designed ladders for climbing to upper berths, snack tables for side berths, windows with powered venetian blinds and roller blinds, LED lights as berth indicators and LED reading lights. It also comes with fire extinguishers in all coaches and an electrically operated chimney in the pantry car.
 
 
  Offering passengers the best sanitation facilities, the train's toilets have platform washbasins, bigger mirrors, an odour control system, exhaust fans and dustbins.
 
 
  The train will traverse four states and has scheduled stops at Bharuch and Surat in Gujarat; Amalner and Bhusawal in Maharashtra; Itarsi, Jabalpur, Katni and Satna in Madhya Pradesh; and Chheoki in Uttar Pradesh, before terminating at Varanasi.
 
 
 Built under the   initiative, the Mahamana Express currently runs on the Varanasi-New Delhi and Bhopal-Khajuraho routes.
 
 
 The train is named after former Hindu Mahasabha president Madan Mohan Malviya, who was also addressed as 'Mahamana'.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
