Television has great potential to change people’s mindsets and the four female lead characters on Star Plus Dopahar — Kanak, Deepika,   and   — are examples of that. 
Refreshing with their young and spunky attitude, these leading ladies stand tall without trying to blend in, flaunt their distinct identities by shedding labels and role definitions. They drive their choices with a strong conviction in marriage, beauty and womanhood, at the same time having an equal voice in every decision.
 One of the most loved shows on TV, Diya Aur Baati Hum returns with a second season, titled Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaji. It introduces Kanak Rathi, Sooraj and Sandhya Rathi’s daughter, who questions archaic gender roles in a marriage.  , who plays Kanak, says, “The show has been an integral part of the viewer’s life since its first season and proven to be a catalyst of social change. Today’s women are looking for true partnership in marriage and Kanak’s journey is about laying a fresh foundation for her marriage where the man and woman are on an equal platform.”
  Dhhai Kilo Prem brings a fat and fabulous love story. It revolves around Deepika, a perfect girl who is confident and comfortable in her own skin. She doesn’t measure her worth on the 
 weighing scale and brings a brazen attitude, which every girl will love matching. Anjali Anand, who plays Deepika, says, “Beauty comes in various sizes and Dhhai Kilo Prem has a plus-sized heroine, who is strong and has inspiring qualities. 
 An adaptation of Turkish show Fatmagul, Kya Qusoor Hai Amala Ka? tackles the sensitive subject of violating the innocence of a woman. 
 Pankhuri Awasthy, who plays Amala, says that it is one of the most challenging roles of her career. “The show is a huge responsibility as it reflects the biggest fear of every woman. I am moved by Amala’s sheer strength and conviction to live through the trauma and fight for justice. The portrayal of her character as a woman of substance, is what sets the show apart from any other.” 
 Ek Aastha Aisi Bhee introduces Aastha, a woman who has a ‘Nayi Soch’ on faith. She believes in serving God by serving humanity. The story etches her journey when she is married into a religious, traditional household. Tina Ann Philip, who is making her debut with the show, says, “I’m playing the character of Aastha whose ideologies resonate with today’s youth. She questions the norm and breaks the traditional way of practising faith.” 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
