PANAJI: The postmortem examination of 27-year-old murder accused   revealed that he died of “haemorrhage and shock” as a result of combined multiple body injuries caused by a blunt object, hinting at use of a stick.

 Karbotkar was killed in the sub-jail at Sada after chaos broke out on the night of January 25, soon on his return from Oras, Maharashtra, where he is facing trial in another case. The autopsy also disclosed that Karbotkar’s stomach was full, and his death occurred within six hours of consumption of food. “His viscera has been preserved to be sent for forensic examination to find out if the deceased had taken any narcotics in jail,” an official said.
 
 While the cause of death of Karbotkar it yet to be investigated, acting inspector general of prison (IPG) Siddhivinayak Naik, in his preliminary report to the chief secretary, had claimed that Karbotkar had instigated other inmates to break open the jail. The jail inmates had also assaulted jail staff. One jail staffer was severely injured and was admitted to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim.
 
 The violent prisoners destructed jail property including computers and other items including lights and bulbs, and also made an attempt to flee. The situation was brought under control after over 200 police personnel including CRPF personnel were deployed to help contain violent jail inmates. Some jail inmates were also injured in the incident. Subsequently, all inmates were shifted to the Central jail, Colvale.
 
 An official said only thorough investigation will reveal what exactly happened on that night, and what triggered the violence. “If sticks were used in the assault, than it needs to be found out how they came in possession of those sticks,” said the official.
 
 Karbotkar was facing trial in over 10 criminal cases. Six months ago, Karbotkar was slapped with a murder charge for killing history sheeter Ashpak Bengre, while both were lodged at Central jail, Colvale. After the murder, Karbotkar was shifted to Sada sub-jail.
 
