NEW DELHI: Upset over the frequent suspensions of business of   because of the absence of  , Prime Minister   on Tuesday cautioned them against skipping proceedings, saying that he would personally monitor their presence.

 PM sounded the warning at the meeting of the   when he interrupted parliamentary affairs minister Ananth Kumar to say that he will not tolerate absenteeism any more.
 
 The parliamentary affairs minister started off the meeting by requesting members to attend the proceedings. "'I humbly request members to attend the House...”, when the PM interrupted him. He said: "There is no need to make humble requests any more, as the basic reason for which members get elected is to attend Parliament.”
 
 PM further said that while he can do a lot of things, he cannot file in for each of the absent BJP MPs, adding that he will be randomly checking on them by sending for five or six members daily during sessions. Modi said he will send in chits with the names of MPs he intended to call into his office any time when the House was on.
 
 The PM’s stern visage left the audience in little doubt that he meant business.
 
 Lack of enough numbers on the treasury benches has been a concern for the government. Many a time proceedings have been suspended because of lack of quorum when one-tenth of the total strength of the House is absent - a requirement which can easily be met considering that BJP has a majority of its own.
 
 After warning MPs, Modi kept the command with himself to brief MPs on what they needed to do to celebrate BJP's foundation day on April 6 and B R Ambedkar's birth anniversary on April 14: two big programmes on BJP’s calendar for next month.
 
 It was Kumar who had started out on telling MPs about the April 6 and 14 programmes, when the PM decided to take charge. "I will tell them about it and what has to be done,” party MPs quoted him as telling them.
 
 Some BJP members said Modi told them that it did not matter to him if they were in the Central Hall, but what is important is that they should be inside the House. Modi had in the past also asked members to ensure their presence but this is the first time he has spoken about it in such detail and talked tough.
 
