WASHINGTON: Adam Purinton was reportedly drinking hard and hurling racial slurs at two Indians after an argument with them over their working in America when a regular patron at the Austin Bar and Grill in Olathe, Kansas, asked him to stop, and the manager had him evicted. The 51-year-old American military vet-turned-infotech worker left, only to return with a gun.

 Yelling ''get out of my country!,'' he 
  and Alok Reddy Madasani, both in their early 30s and both engineers from India, who worked for the locally-based tech company  , famed for its GPS technology.
 
 Kuchibhotla succumbed to injuries while Purinton fled the scene. Madasani and a third person,  , who heroically tackled the gunman, were hurt in the shooting. Purinton was arrested several hours later at an Applebee’s in Clinton, Missouri, about 90 miles away, where he told the bartender ''he had killed two Middle Eastern men'' and sought a place to hide.
 
 The bartender called the police, who took Purinton into custody without incident. He was charged with premeditated murder and two counts of attempted murder, and is currently in prison. 
 
 The incident, coming amid months of politically-charged rage against immigrants and foreigners in parts of the US, shook the small town of Olathe, which means ''beautiful'' in the Native American Shawnee Algonquian language. Local reports said the engineers had arrived there less than three years ago to work at Garmin, two among more than a million Indian professionals who work in the US.
 
 It is not clear what prompted Purinton to lose it. Kansas media described him as a Navy veteran, IT specialist, former pilot and air traffic controller who lives in a comfortable suburban home. Some accounts said he had accosted the Indian duo at the bar, where they were regulars, and had been haranguing them about working in the US illegally, although both had graduated from US universities and conformed to the well-chronicled stereotype of skilled Indian professionals on work visas.
 
 Garmin told employees in an email that it was saddened by the incident and would have grief counselors on site for co-workers, even as their associates praised their skills and work ethic. Kuchibhotla, who is survived by his wife Sunayana Dumala, was the kind of job candidate that every hiring manager wanted on his team, Rod Larson, his first boss at Garmin told the Kansas City Star.
 
 ''He was very sharp. A top-of-his-class kind of guy,'' Larson said. ''His personality was exceptional. He was the kind of employee every manager would want.''
 
 The incident also dismayed both New Delhi and the Indian IT establishment, which only this week has sent an industry delegation to present India’s views on the issue of skilled guest worker visas, the kind used by Kuchibhotla and Madasani after they graduated from US colleges to find work in America. The team is scheduled to make presentations to the Republican-majority US Congress and the Trump establishment -- both wanting to cut down such visas -- starting Monday.
 
 External Affairs Minister 
  to the bereaved family, and the government directed consular officials in Houston and Dallas to go to Kansas to 
  .
 
 
 
 
 
