VELLORE: The   government, violating the riparian rights of the   farmers, has raised the   of a   across the tributary of the   river at Somapallam in Chittoor district.

 Sources in the public works department in Tamil Nadu said the AP government had renovated one of stone masonry check dams constructed across the Chinna Eru, a tributary of the Palar river.
 
 The China Eru runs for 16km from its origin to the confluence point with the Palar. The AP government had constructed 12 stone masonry check dams 15 to 20 years ago across the tributary. 
 
 “Now, they have taken up renovation work and turned it into a concrete structure. The height has also been raised to about eight feet. It is located about 7km in the upstream of the Palar from the inter-state border (Pullur) of Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh,” said a senior official of the PWD.
 
 In fact, minister for environment and forests of AP B Gopala Krishna Reddy during his recent visit to Vellore said small check dams were being constructed in the tributary of the Palar in a deep forest area.
 
 Calling the construction work across the tributary as violation of the   1892, the PWD official said they would submit a report before the state government regarding the check dam issue.
 
 According to the agreement, any construction across the river and its tributary without a prior consent of the lower riparian state is prohibited. The agreement is still in force under Interstate River Water Disputes Act 1956.
 
 Farmers along the border villagers in Vellore claimed that that the AP government had completed the check dam construction work one and half months ago.
 
 It has laid a credential to the claims of the farmers in Vellore that the AP government had floated tenders to construct five check dams across two tributaries of the Palar river. 
 
 “The AP government raised the check dams in Perumpallam and Paluru villages in Kangundi panchayat of Chittoor district in mid of 2016. However, the Tamil Nadu government failed to protect the riparian right of our farmers,” said Vellore district Reversal of Ecology Committee’s member A Ashokan.
 
 He further said the AP government had floated a tender to take up a massive construction work across the tributary of the Palar at Pokkilrev and a few other spots in deep forest area to double up the water storage capacity. 
 
 District revenue officer (in-charge district collector) of Vellore K Manivannan said they had sought a report from the PWD officials regarding the construction activities across the Palar and its tributary. “As soon as we receive the report, we will write to the state government to draw its attention towards the issue,” he said.
 
