VISHAKHAPATNAM: Palmyra, once considered one of the most useful trees in north coastal  , is today only valued for its fruit and toddy. 

 The timber of this tall and majestic palm tree was once used to build huts, animal shelters and even flat roofs known as Middi-Paikappu. These houses comprised clay wedged between palmyra poles to provide proper roofing for residents of thatched huts during the rainy season and protect them from the heat during the winter season. Palmyra wood was also used to bake bricks in traditional brick manufacturing units and in furnaces in wood-based power plants. Palmyra is also a major source of toddy in the region and its fruit Thati Munju is much sought during the summer season. 
 
 P S Murthy, a former SCI feild scientist, said, “Palmyra was once known as the most valuable tree in drought hit areas of east coast and had been promoted by the forest department both for its timber as well as toddy and fruit. The timber and leaves were used for construction of houses, the fruit was used to quench thirst in the summer, the fresh toddy was considered an extremely rich source of vitamins and minerals. The Palmyra fruit was also used to make pancakes whenever drought conditions prevailed.” 
 
 It was probably the only palm tree that could be grown even in the driest of areas and was also considered as useful in soil conservation, Murthy added. 
 
 Regarding the sudden paradigm shift, Murthy said, “The main culprit is the change in architectural styles and construction materials used in rural areas. Today, most of the buildings are RCC structures and palmyra timber is no longer needed. More importantly, even animal shelters are using modern roofing sheets and hollow fly ash bricks. This has made huge dent in the palmyra market.”
 
 P   of Salur mandal, who formerly owned a brick manufacturing unit, said, “We used palmyra wood for fire wood. Today most of the traditional brick manufacturing units use easily combustible timber and wood chips instead of palmyra logs. Due to this there has been a substantial increase in the by-product known as charcoal.” 
 
 Agriculturist from   in   district E Raman said, “The problem with palmyra wood is that charcoal briquettes can be produced only from the chips (edges) of the logs, while the core is extremely fibrous and as a result has high calorific value. Hence it is considered unsuitable for fire wood purposes.” Raman added that the entire district is dotted with palmyra trees which are a naturally invasive species.
 
 Regarding the economic value of the tree today, PS Murthy said, “The average yield per tree is about four to five litres of palm wine (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic) per day. However, much of it is sold in the form of toddy (alcoholic beverage) and toddy tappers and vendors charge as much as Rs 150 per litre of diluted toddy. The season lasts for approximately 50 days from February to May, after which the summer fruit is sold for the rest of the summer.” 
 
 Regarding the timber value, Raman said, “It is absolutely zero. Chopping down the tall gigantic palm tree is a huge problem and more importantly with no takers for the wood except in the form of chips, trees are being given away for free by farmers.”
 
 
