NEW DEHI: The   incidents in   have prompted   ( ) to carry out a detailed inspection to check the structural safety of the buildings in   as the structures there are also quite old.

 NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said that as of now the council is inspecting two major markets — Connaught Place and Khan Market — and, if required, the inspection will be expanded to other markets as well. “Apart from the inspection, we will ensure that no construction takes place beyond the permissible limits. Such works will be stopped immediately,” he said.
 
 Khan Market traders claim that they had approached NDMC several times in the past few years regarding the same issue, but no heed was paid to their requests.
 
 Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ Association, said, “The Connaught Place incidents are very unfortunate. Both the markets are quite old and, though the foundation is strong, the load on rooftops is increasing due to mushrooming of restaurants. Moreover, there is a need to revamp the sewage system as seepage may make the foundation weak.”
 
 Mehra pointed out that in the year 2000, residential flats on the first floor were converted into commercial complexes. In the past few years, most restaurants have come up on the first and above floors. There are 156 shops and 35 restaurants in Khan Market. “Out of 74 residential flats, 44 were converted into commercial spaces and 35 of them are running restaurants there,” he said.
 
 “Most of these restaurants do not have clearances from the fire department. There is no provision for fire exits and the roofs house generators, water tankers and mobile towers. If the council doesn’t initiate any action, soon incidents like Connaught Place may also occur here,” said Mehra.
 
 However, senior NDMC officials said, “Restaurants with a seating capacity of 50 or below do not need clearance from the fire department. That is why most restaurants at Khan Market don’t have the clearance. The high court, however, has ordered to make some changes in the policy and we are working on it. We will soon make fire clearance mandatory for the eateries.”
 
 
