Panaji: Goa’s senior police officer, Sammy Tavares, is taking ‘Police Officer’ to the world, quite literally. 

 The deputy superintendent of police (Quepem) is a well-known name around the state for his exploits with the   Police. When he is not policing the state, Sammy can be seen directing his other passion: Tiatr. ‘Police Officer’ is Sammy’s third   after ‘Aplea Bhurgeam Sangata’ (2012) and ‘Tim Thikam Sanddlelim’ (2014). But unlike his first two tiatrs, ‘Police Officer’ is set to traverse the world and conquer new frontiers.
 
 “For a start, we will be travelling to UK later this month. This is a wonderful tiatr and must be showcased around the world,” Sammy told TOI on Thursday.
 
 In England, ‘Police Officer’ is set to have five shows, with two shows each in Swindon and Southall, after an opening show in Wembley, all areas with huge Goan population.
 
 Once the England assignment is done and dusted, Sammy will take his tiatr to the Gulf with shows planned in Bahrain, Muscat, Dubai and Kuwait, and when they return, there will be hardly any time to rest as they pack their bags for the US.
 
 “We already have visas for the US. The entire cast will be travelling. It will be quite something to stage this tiatr in front of   enthusiasts in the US,” said Sammy, whose father, Theodorio Tavares, a freedom fighter, took to the stage even before Goa could be liberated and criticised the Portuguese regime with a song that reverberated all through the rebellious village of Cuncolim.
 
 Sammy is the only director to know what it means to have a show in the US.
 
  In 2014, he became the first Goan director to showcase a tiatr there when ‘Aplea Bhurgeam Sangata’ – revolving around an orphan – won everyone’s hearts. Tiatr aficionados even travelled from Canada – a road journey of eight to nine hours - to sample the thrill and excitement that tiatr can provide.
 
 “It’s not easy for anyone to stage shows in the US. My sister-in-law (Elfie Tavares) is the one who is managing everything,” said Sammy, whose late brother Max was a pioneer in promoting tiatrs in Bahrain, before the family migrated to the United States. 
 
 Besides the US assignment with confirmed shows in New York and Texas, Sammy is awaiting visas to travel to Canada, completing a circle that even top-notch directors can only dream of.
 
 “I had invitations to stage the tiatr elsewhere in the world too, but there are time constraints. The organizers are ready but there are too many logistics involved,” said Sammy.
 
 Tiatrs are organised locally in countries like US and even Canada, but there have never been high-profile troupes moving from Goa to these parts of the world.
 
 Sammy’s high-profile cast includes huge stars like Ulhas Tari, Franky Gonsalves, Justin and Janice Cardozo. The comedy – powerful, in the words of the director – has been powered by Sally, Joanna, Richard, Caetan and Desmond, while songs from Sonia Shirsat, Marcus Vaz, Lawry Travasso, Saby de Divar, Benny de Aldona, Aniceto and Sammy himself ensures there is never quite a dull moment in this three-hour entertainer.
 
 In Goa, ‘Police Officer’ has been running to packed houses everywhere, including the last show in Mapusa. He has completed 20 shows so far, with the last two shows – at least in its first leg – scheduled for Sunday (Mapusa) and Monday (Margao). The silver jubilee show will be staged in the UK, fittingly for a tiatr and director with global ambitions.
 
 
