JAIPUR:   called on the police to find  , the JNU student missing since October last year, at the earliest. 

 At a press conference in Jaipur to mark 120 days since his disappearance after first being assaulted on campus on October 14 last year, student leaders said police were able to act with alacrity and bring back the buffaloes missing from UP MLA Azam Khan’s farm. They also managed, in just a few hours, to locate the pet dog of Agra MP Ram Shankar Katheria. Why then are they taking so long to trace a student missing from one of the nation’s most prestigious institutes of higher education?
 
 Sadiq Chauhan, a member of MSO, said people of this country are faced with a strange dilemma. “The very people we have elected, our lawmakers, think little of our Constitution. There are among the ranks of the ruling party people who think Nathuram Godse, Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin, was a hero. However, those who believe in the Constitution and wish our nation to be one where all people find justice have no option but to keep coming together to demand justice.” He said it was no coincidence that members of the ABVP, the student wing of the RSS, were behind both the harassment of Dalit student   in Hyderabad and Ahmed in JNU.
 
 Activist Panchsheel Jain said, “We have to be extremely careful who we cast our votes for – we cannot have criminals as lawmakers. In the UP elections, it was heart-rending to see one mother plead with voters not to vote for a candidate responsible for the murder of her daughter. We can only expect a mango tree to bear mango fruit – we cannot hope for a babool to bear mangoes. If we vote people who care little for the Constitution or justice to power, we will have to put up with the consequences.”
 
 Sadiq Chauhan said the Muslim students’ struggle is for justice not only for members of their own community but for Dalits and adivasis too. “We have taken up the cause of Rohit Vemula. We cannot afford complacency – what happened to Najeeb might happen to any of us.” 
 
