MUMBAI: The   for which Mumbai votes today could, apart from unveiling a new regime in the iconic City Hall later this week, likely cast a shadow on Maharashtra’s politics and compel major players to work out fresh strategies to keep the wolf of mid-term assembly elections at bay, said observers. 

 With a hung House a possibility, whether the   and   team up again in the civic body, even after much mud-slinging during the poll campaign, is a question which will determine the trajectory of Maharashtra politics.
 
 If neither Sena nor BJP touches the magic mark of 114 in a House of 227 and if they decide not to join hands, they may have to knock at the doors of the Congress or NCP for the mayoral election. If Sena emerges the single largest party, it can stake a claim for the mayor’s post and manage to win the polls, sources said. “Like a minority government, Sena can manage the situation,” sources added.
 
 The Sena has the most at stake in these polls as Mumbai is its heartland and the party has been the dominant partner in the ruling Sena-BJP combine for the past 20 years.
 
 For the BJP, the election is an instrument to clip the Sena’s wings in BMC, which is Matoshree’s powerhouse. The BJP’s prestige as the new senior partner in the state government and as the party that has PM Narendra Modi’s appeal behind it is also at stake, as is CM Devendra Fadnavis’s image as CM and leading poll campaigner.To what extent the BJP can cut the Sena to size depends largely on the percentage of voting. “We can put up a good performance if the polling exceeds 55% across the city,” said a BJP strategist.
 
 Fadnavis on Monday told a TV channel that “they (the Sena) are not our enemies...We consider them our political opponents”. He, however, made it clear that transparency in the civic administration alone will be the basis of reconciliation talks, if any, with the Sena. Transparency was a contentious issue which led to the BJP-Sena severing poll ties.
 
 Senior BJP functionaries rule out the possibility of the Sena rejecting the BJP’s post-poll overtures. “If the Sena chooses not to be our partner in the BMC, it will have to walk out of the Fadnavis government too,” said a BJP corporator.
 
 On the other hand, a section in the Sena feels breaking bread with BJP after the civic election will make a big dent in the party’s popularity. “Also, Uddhavji will lose his moral authority. He has repeatedly said the Sena will hereafter have no alliance with any party. He should remain firm on his stand," said a Sena MLA.
 
 Whether the Sena acts on its threat that the Fadnavis government is on notice depends on its numbers, sources said. While some sources said “the Sena president is said to be gung-ho about winning over 100 assembly seats and finding new friends if fresh polls are held,” several Sena legislators told Thackeray recently that they lacked funds to contest assembly elections, it is learnt. This has triggered worry in the Sena rank and file that there could be a split in the legislature party if the party pulls out of the government.
 
 Senior cabinet minister and RSS veteran Chandrakant Patil on Monday said the state government would survive with the support of 20 MLAs from different parties if Sena withdrew support. Patil told reporters at Miraj (Sangli), “As many as 20 MLAs from the Sena, NCP and Congress will come forward to support the government.”
 
 A Sena veteran said, “Pragmatism will stop Uddhavji from taking any extreme step. He has the larger interest of Maharashtra close to his heart.”
 
 Sena leader Anil Parab said the party is all set to cross the 114 mark. “We will secure a clear majority and will not require BJP’s support in the mayoral elections. There is no question of a post-poll alliance with BJP,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis has claimed the BJP will get a clear mandate from Mumbaikars and there will be no need for a post-poll alliance. 
 
 Insiders peg the BJP’s share at 60-65 seats which, they point out, will strengthen Fadnavis’ resolve to act tough with Sena during post-poll talks for sharing of power. “Even if win 45, we will be in a position to state our conditions,” said a state BJP functionary. 
 
 Many in the BJP are of the view that if the party gets less than 50 seats, the CM could be on a wet wicket.
 
 Some senior leaders of Sena and BJP admitted off the record on Monday that despite their stands during the poll drive, the two parties would have no option but to go in for a post-poll alliance if neither gets the required numbers.
 
 Meanwhile, both Congress and NCP need to revise their strategies in the wake of the Mumbai elections. “We’ve had a tough time as Sena plays the opposition's role while being part of the state government,” said a Congress leader.
 
 The MNS, down and out since the 2014 elections, will have to reaffirm its ties with Mumbaikars, said experts.
 
 Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam, however, while predicting a hung House, said, “Don’t be surprised if Congress secures between 70 to 80 seats and BJP and Sena win fewer seats than Congress.” Nirupam said these polls were the first time in the recent past that Sena and BJP had not made any emotional appeal, so most communities had distanced themselves from both parties. “Members of the minority community will vote in favour of Congress,” Nirupam said.
 
 An NCP leader said, “We feel the Sena will not cross the 80 mark, BJP may get 50-55 seats, while Congress-NCP will together secure 70. If we decide to keep BJP out of power, the only option before us is to support the Sena as it has taken a firm stand against BJP,” he said. 
 
