HYDERABAD: After mowing down the 72-year-old war veteran,  , at   on the   on December 10, M Tech student G Prashant Kumar had removed registration plates of his Ford Figo and parked the car far away from his house on Prenderghast Road in Secunderabad. Incidentally, police discovered that the car went to service centres 60 times in four years, which means more than once a month on some occasions. 

  The Raidurgam police were gathering foolproof evidence against Prashnath, who was driving under the influence of alcohol, so that he would get punishment for killing the war veteran. As of now, police have the broken fender liner piece of his Ford Figo. 
 
 The damaged car was also seized from his possession. "The accused has hidden the registration plates of the car and we have to recover them," an investigating official said. Police have also found out that the car involved in the accident had gone to the servicing centres in the city 60 times in a span of four years. 
 
 "The car was manufactured in August, 2012, and registered at RTA office, Trimulgherry, on January 9, 2013 in the name of Prashant's father G Ramesh Kumar. The 60 visits to servicing centres in a span of four years indicate that the accused or his family members has history of bad driving," a police source said . Cops came to know that Prashant's brother had also met with a serious accident a year ago while driving back from Goa. Based on the piece of the car's fender liner found at the crime scene, police contacted four Ford service centres in the city and found the car at the Bowenpally service centre. 
 
 "Prashant wanted to get his car repaired by claiming insurance. He lied to the insurance agent and the service centre staff saying that his car got damaged when it bumpbed into a crater at Kukatpally. He removed the number plates and made the service centre staff park the car in a corner so that it will not be easily visible," a Raidurgam police official said
 
 . Police were gathering details from the insurance firm and service centre staff and their statements would also be recorded. A few hours before the mishap, Prashant had consumed liquor at two different pubs in   on December 9 night and police have already gathered CCTV camera footages as well as bill particulars from these places. Prashant used his grandfather's credit card to pay the bill at one of the two pubs and cops have to record the statements of the pub staff. 
 
  The seized vehicle has been sent to the forensic lab for extraction of the victim's DNA samples and the lab would also confirm the fender liner matching. Police were also planning to record statements of the witnesses before a magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC.Police on Tuesday filed a petition in a local court seeking five-day custody of Prashant for gathering evidence. 
 
