KOLKATA: For the last few days, IT executive Subhajit Mitra has been finding it difficult to complete a phone call at one go on his way to office — be it on voice or video. He noticed that a call drops or a video link gets blurry at the same four spots on his home-to-office stretch. In   experts’ parlance, these   are ‘blind zones’. 

 Mitra’s is not a one-off case. With the constant addition of subscribers, introduction of cheaper call rates and a barrage of virtual communication, not every nook and corner of the city remains a signal hotspot. Avijit Patra of Behala, Mandira Singh of Belgachhia and Moni Rosario of Elgin Road are fellow sufferers. 
 
 Call drops or video link failure, according to experts, occur due to various reasons — change in patterns of customer and traffic movements, loss of coverage, lack of frequency or low capacity demand during peak loads. However, no cellular operator would like to acknowledge this as a problem since they claim that it is “well within the prescribed limits for the industry”.
 
 Disgusted with a continuous voice breaks during calls, Bijoygarh homemaker Shikha Palit has visited service centres to check whether her handset is to be blamed for the glitch. As the company-authorised repair shop found the cellphone fit, Palit now wants to change her cellular operator.
 
 “Whichever network you subscribe to and whatever price you pay,   or data failure is not going to end. I don’t waste my time these days. I consider it a regular bad expense,” said Angshuk Chaudhury, a third-year engineering student from Beniatola.
 
 Most subscribers are tired of calling up customer care. “This is a futile exercise. They will note down your area of commutation, nature of problems and call frequency. But the next day, you will face the same experience,” said Rosario, a travel agent. 
 
 GSM cellular operators’ body COAI blames it on paucity of cellular towers and hurdles to set up these signal-emission sites in the city. “Blind zones have become a problem in every city. Cellular firms can’t put up a tower anywhere and everywhere, especially near schools, hospitals and congested places, according to court order. Even if an operator finds one right place, locals and the civic body cry foul. But very few people understand that no cellular operator wants to lose business because of an erratic signal.” 
 
 Service providers, however, said there was no surge in call drops or link failure within their respective networks.   didn’t find any anomaly in their network strength in Kolkata. CEO (West Bengal & Odisha) Vir Inder Nath told TOI: “We invest aggressively in our network quality and hunt for new sites to enhance our network presence..”
 
 A source in  , too, said there has been no big fluctuation in their city network transmission. “We have spoken to our network and customer care departments. But none of them gave us any indication of surge in call drops or link failure. Normally, in such cases, our customer care executives get a lot of complaint calls,” he added.
 
 Following a check with his technical officers, Anil Gupta, regional manager (East), Aircel, also clarified that there was no glitch in their network.
 
 Telecom expert professor Sudarshan Niyogi of IIT-Kharagpur, however, rubbished the claims made by COAI and cellular operators. He said, “Telecom bodies’ reasoning for call drops is baseless. Installation of more towers cannot be a solution. It will only add to our health hazards. They need to put up one or two big units, like the TV towers. There aren’t many towers dotting the city skyscapes in developed countries.” With the entry of a major player like Reliance Jio and the subsequent tariff war followed by a industry consolidation, it seems all telecom operators in the city need to pull up their socks to ensure seamless services.
 
 
