MUMBAI: Disgruntled by “apathetic” political parties, two residents’ groups from Chembur have fielded candidates, Ganesh Awasthi (39) and Sanjay Kokane (52), who are members of their associations. Awasthi and Kokane will contest against incumbent   in the M West ward. 

 Pestom Sagar Citizens’ Forum candidate, Awasthi, will contest against corporator Deepa Parab. 
 
 N K Pratapan, general secretary of the Pestom Sagar Citizens’ Forum, said they have observed that the corporator comes from another area due to which not enough attention is being paid to their locality. “Our electoral ward includes Tilak Nagar, Chheda Nagar, Munjal Nagar, Shrinagar as well and therefore with the corporator belonging to other localities does not concentrate much on the development work in Pestom Sagar, which by itself is a large locality,” said Pratapan. 
 
 “We had a full-fledged interview process and had kept candidates ready from every category namely Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes as we were not sure about the reservation status. However, we finally decided to field Ganesh Awasthi when we learned that the seat in our ward had come under the open category,” said Pratapan. Their forum along with the local traders’ association has also formed a civic team which will be working towards identifying problems of the ward and finding solutions. Awasthi’s family owns a unit making potato chips in Pestom Sagar. 
 
 “A candidate is on many occasions given a ticket either based on how influential he/she is or how much of money they are willing to pump in. I was clear that I did not want to do anything on those lines and hence I am glad to be contesting as a citizens’ candidate,” said Awasthi, who plans to soon release a manifesto for the electoral ward. 
 
 “I believe that the problems of one locality are different from another and hence I will be releasing a local manifesto for each locality in the electoral ward,” he added. If elected, Awasthi promises to spruce up internal roads within the ward, improve sewerage facilities and safety in the area. The Diamond Garden Citizens Forum and other activists plan to field Sanjay Kokane (52). “Having worked with the citizens in the past, Kokane is aware about local issues,” said Rajkumar Sharma, president of the Diamond Garden Residents Forum. 
 
 Kokane, who is contesting as a Scheduled Caste candidate, said, “Chembur has many chemical units, refineries and the dumping ground too not very far. If any disaster occurs there would be no chance for the residents to escape. I am keen on taking up this issue,” said Kokane.
 
