CHANDIGARH: Punjab was the only state which gave AAP its four MPs in the 2014 parliamentary election. The state is now the most crucial and immediate hurdle for the party to cross before supremo  's national ambitions for the 2019 parliamentary elections are fulfilled. Later this year, Gujarat polls are going to be a stopover for him. Just like AAP's performance in 2014, its fortunes in the state remain unpredictable.Just a year ago, AAP seemed unbeatable, but now appears on a sticky wicket. More than the opposition, the party suffered due to blows from within.

 What's more, most of the prominent faces it fielded in 2014, or those who joined it then, have either been kicked out or pushed to fringe. Many leaders from other parties have been welcomed and quite a few fielded as candidates.The party's strong image against corruption that was there two-anda-half years ago, has now given way to other things which happen in traditional parties. Allegations of corruption in ticket allocation, infighting, and stings by party activists on each other are some of the hurdles it faces.
 
 For Congress, a crucible for revival
 
 Punjab is vital for the party to stage a comeback at the national level, especially because its campaign is UP has gone cold. In the 2014 elections, Punjab was the only state where the Congress could inflict a wound on the BJP , as Punjab Congress chief   beat now Union finance minister Arun Jaitley from Amritsar.This revived the former CM's political prospects, and has now snowballed into his biggest strength to stake claim to head the party in the state. In a first for Congress, the party's campaign in the state is woven around the name of a leader -Amarinder.
 
 If Punjab was a national outlier in 2014 in ducking the Modi wave and giving a life to AAP , in 2017 it holds a chance to infuse fresh life in the oldest party . Ironically, Punjab is one state where Congress suffered the most due to Operation Bluestar and the 1984 antiSikh massacre in Delhi.
 
 Though chances of the party appear to have improved in public perception -mostly due to the anti-incumbency faced by the ruling SAD-BJP combine and the follies of AAP , but the biggest challenge remains infighting at local levels.
 
 SAD to be 3rd time lucky? Hope floats...
 
 The second oldest party of India set a record in 2012 by retaining power.It was the first time in the state that a party was given a consecutive term. Now, its leaders are claiming to form a government for the third time in a row. However, unlike 2012, Akalis are facing rebellion at many places in spite of the Badal family's iron grip on the party . Though battling a 10-year anti-incumbency, SAD chief   is putting up a brave face. This despite the fact that even as the BJP won most of North India in 2014 rising the Modi wave, the SAD-BJP alliance suffered major losses and lost face in Arun Jaitley's defeat due to the anti-incumbency against the state government.Sukhbir Badal's micro-management skills .are already at play A year ago, the popularity of the party appeared to be at its lowest after the Bargari sacrilege incident and subsequent firing at Sikh protestors in Behbal Kalan. But, with its aggression in doling out sops -from free pilgrimage trains to several social welfare steps -appears to have helped. SAD is going to polls with Parkash Singh Badal 足 the oldest CM in the country 足 as its CM face for a sixth time, along with decision making and their execution largely by son Sukhbir.
 
 
 
 With two back to back victories in 2014 足 first in parliamentary elections and then in Haryana polls 足 BJP appeared to be riding high on popularity. Its leaders were blowing hot and cold about the alliance with SAD, quite a few times raising issues which were uncomfortable for senior alliance partner SAD. They went to the extent of demanding resignations of SAD leaders grilled by ED.Former MP   also attacked SAD. BJP may be junior partner in Punjab, but this assembly election is important to check the rise of AAP, as it can be a serious challenge for it in PM Modi's home state Gujarat.
 
