Gandhinagar: National   president   had a four-hour long meeting on Thursday with the state BJP’s core team for ‘micro-planning’ for the state assembly elections scheduled at the end of this year. Incidentally, two days earlier PM Narendra Modi had a meeting with chief minister Vijay Rupani; deputy CM Nitin Patel; state BJP president Jitu Vaghani; all Ministers, MLAs and MPs on the state assembly elections

 Shah also reviewed the state’s government various works as wells as the outcome of the recently concluded Adivasi Yatra. He took reviewed the activities of the state social media cell in the presence of the chief minister, Dy CM and other top party office-bearers. 
 
 He instructed them to be more aggressive and innovative in their campaign to counter all political adversaries as well as the challenge posed by Patider leader Hardik Patel, OBC leader Alpesh Thakor and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani. Though all the BJP leaders are claiming it was a routine organizational meeting, sources privy to the meeting said that all relevatnt issues were discussed.
 
 “He (Shah) first reviewed the party and government’s activities in the past two months,” a source said. “He focussed on the Adivasi Yatra, the ongoing assembly session, budget proposals, Naliya sex scandal involving BJP leaders, regrouping of Patidar reservation stir leaders, and the likely impact of the results of Uttar Pradesh and other assembly elections. 
 
 Shah had a separate meeting with the social media team and instructed them to involve more professional personnel for aggressive and innovative campaigns in the coming days. 
 
 “He asked the CM, DyCM and the state party president to give a status report on the detailed seat-wise ‘micro-planning’ to achive the PM’s target of breaking the Congress record of winning 149 seats,” the source said. 
 
 “He also asked to give Page Pramukh (voter list page incharge) and Shakti Kendra-wise position of the party and asked for details of the major government and party’s combined campaign plan,” the source said. “Shah also asked for an aggressive campaign instead of defensive campgain again the opposition, especially the Congress and emerging AAP.”
 
 Weighs pros and cons of early elections 
 
 Shah, amid, much speculations of early elections in the state in case of favourable results in Uttar Pradesh and other states, also discussed the issue with top BJP leaders. However, he only took a sense of the reception and did not clearly speak his mind on the subject, key sources said. 
 
 
