PANAJI: A senior police officer has said that BJP South Goa MP   allegedly restrained attempts by the police to investigate into the allegation that Cumbharjua BJP candidate Pandurang Madkaikar tried to lure voters by distributing gift coupons of a retail outlet, headed by Sawaikar.

 Speaking to STOI, Sawaikar said that he has not restrained anyone from investigating the case. While confirming that Madkaikar’s trust has purchased gift coupons worth Rs 20 lakh, Sawaikar said that “anybody can come to Goa Bagayatdar Sahakari Kharedi Vikri Saunstha Maryadit (GBSVSM) and purchase the gift coupon”.
 
 “Police have now also started making political allegations. I am an ordinary person and I will never stop anyone from conducting the investigation,” Sawaikar added.
 
 The senior police officer pointed out that Madkaikar distributed GBSVSM gift coupons worth Rs 500 each. The retail outlet is headed by Sawaikar, who allegedly restrained the police from accessing the documents at the outlet’s headquarter at Ponda, while they were investigating the case.
 
 During the election campaign, Old Goa police had registered the first information report (FIR) against Madkaikar for distributing the gift coupons of GBSVSM, Ponda, along with the BJP manifesto.
 
 Old Goa police has registered the case under Sections 171 (B), 171 (E) and 188 IPC and 123 (1) of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951.
 
 Police said that the complaint was lodged by a   election agent to the Election Commission, who directed the returning officer to take further necessary action. Police said that after the flying squad verified that a trust run by Madkaikar had purchased coupons worth Rs 20 lakh from the retail outlet, they lodged the complaint before the Old Goa police.
 
 Police said as they began to investigate the case, they went to GBSVSM’s main office at Ponda to verify its purchase records and account books. Police said GBSVSM chairman Sawaikar prevented them from viewing the documents and forced them to return without conducting the investigation.
 
 When contacted, North Goa superintendent of police (SP) Karthik Kashyap, said that the investigation is in progress. On the eve of the assembly election in the state, Madkaikar quit Congress and joined BJP to contest the polls in Cumbharjua constituency.
 
 
