JAIPUR: The sleuths of   are being trained in   to help them converse with villagers who live alongside the international border and regularly visit Sindh province in Pakistan.
A senior intelligence official of the state police said that a tutor has been giving lessons in basic Sindhi language to cops. “Many people who live alongside the border villages speak Sindhi.They also frequently visit Pakistan to attend weddings and other functions, therefore, we need to know their language to be able to communicate with them better,“ the official said.
 
 The official sources told TOI that language plays a crucial role when it comes to `interviews' or debriefing of suspected people who return to the state after completing their trips in Pakistan.
 
 “Only suspicious people are interviewed by the border intelligence,“ the official said, adding that women, elderly people and children are exempted from these interviews. “We ask them which place they visited, people they met and if anyone from ISI tried to lure them into espionage. This helps us to keep a tab on the activities of Pakistani ISI,“ the official added.
 
 The official said these interviews have often fetched them crucial details, and therefore it became imperative to get basic grip on the language.
 
 Deputy IG (Security) R Suhasa told TOI that basic training is being given to cops in order to help them in counter intelligence operations.
 
 “We have had major successes in last six months where we nabbed nine people who were involved in spying for their handlers across the border.
 
 Hence, with an aim to maintain the momentum, we are encouraging our men-in-khaki to take up language courses,“ he said.
 
 The sleuths of Border Intelligence (BI) have caught nine Pakistani spies in last six months.
 
 “The arrest of Nand Lal, Beriyam Khan,   etc helped cops get a complete picture of Pakistani intelligence agencies.Therefore, we too are training ourselves in new skills like learning languages and keeping a close eye on these vistors,“ the official said.
 
