NEW DELHI: Concerned over increasing crime against women, the   hoped on Friday that the 
  would be “an eye-opener for a mass movement” to end such violence and sensitise people on gender equality and justice.

 Justice R Banumathi, who was part of the bench, said stringent laws and punishment alone might not be sufficient to fight the increasing crimes against women as attitudinal change and change in the mind-set was needed to respect women and ensure gender justice in the country.
 
 “Public at large, in particular men, are to be sensitised on gender justice. The battle for gender justice can be won only with strict implementation of legislative provisions, sensitisation of public, taking other pro-active steps at all levels for combating violence against women and ensuring widespread attitudinal changes and comprehensive change in the existing mind-set. We hope that this incident will pave the way for the same,” she said.
 
 Referring to statistics of National Crime Records Bureau, she noted that a total of 3,27,394 cases of crime against women were reported in 2015, an increase of over 43% in such crimes since 2011 and 110.5% over the past decade. 
 
 “Offences against women are not a women’s issue alone but, human rights issue. Increased rate of crime against women is an area of concern for the law-makers and it points out an emergent need to study in depth the root of the problem and remedy the same through a strict law and order regime. There are a number of legislations and numerous penal provisions to punish the offenders of violence against women. However, it becomes important to ensure that gender justice does not remain only on paper,” she said.
 
 She said that every individual, irrespective of his/her gender must be willing to take up the responsibility in fight for gender justice.“Children ought to be sensitised to respect women. A child should be taught to respect women in the society in the same way as he is taught to respect men. Gender equality should be made a part of the school curriculum,” she said.
 
 “Banners and placards in the public transport vehicles like 320 autos, taxis and buses etc must be ensured. Use of street lights, illuminated bus stops and extra police patrol during odd hours must be ensured. Police/security guards must be posted at dark and lonely places like parks, streets etc. Mobile apps for immediate assistance of women should be introduced and effectively maintained,” she said.
 
 
