The pretty actress   has been roped in as the brand ambassador for the talented designer   Khan’s fashion label.
 
  When asked,   confirmed the development and said, “Yes, you’ve heard it right. I have recently been announced as brand ambassador for the   Fashion label. It's an amazing brand catering to exclusive western wear for women which can be purchased or even rented I love the concept and the collections which are truly unique and stylish as well. We also did a fashion campaign shoot for website as well as hoardings with photographer   The hoardings have been up all over Mumbai and the response to the pictures has been fabulous as we did an international style shoot with some unique concepts”
  
  Aanushka even walked the ramp for the brand where she was the show stopper. About the experience, she says, “Walking on the ramp was a fabulous experience The label was recently launched with a fashion preview at Drinking Kulture where I walked as a showstopper The gown I was wearing was truly beautiful and I literally felt like a princess!”
  
  Talking about her own fashion icons, Aanushka says, “I don't really have any fashion icons as such, because I believe everyone has their own individual style. But I like of  ,   and   --- they’re quite stylish.”
  
  A true fashionista, Aanushka says she never follows trend. Talking about her own sense of style, she says, “I believe in creating my own fashion. I keep updated with trends but don't follow them blindly. I believe fashion is about being comfortable in your own skin and the best thing you wear is your attitude and self-confidence. If you are confident even a simple jeans and t-shirt looks gr8 and if you're not even the most beautiful dress can look out of place.”
  
  So, any other brands she’d like to endorse in the future? “I would like to endorse products that I truly believe in When you get associated with a brand as an Ambassador it is almost like having a relationship with that brand, which is beyond the money you are paid or the fact that you are doing commercials or hoardings for it You have to truly connect with the brand as people associate your personality and it becomes an extension of the brand I would like to endorse any sports or wellness products, colas, cosmetics or even jewelry as these have a large audience connect as well.”
  
  On a parting note, Aanushka took time to thank Sanaa Khan for the experience she had. She says, “I would like to say that I had a truly fabulous experience working with the entire team - Sanaa Khan, Vishal Saxena and the make-up and hair team of   and   and our hospitality partner Drinking Kulture It was almost like working with family and will truly be one of my most memorable experiences!” Spoken like a true Diva, Aanushka! We're sure you will rock your new avatar as a brand ambassador.
