LUDHIANA: A goof-up by the district   reportedly led to delay in announcement of the result of around 4,000 students of   school, Sector 32. The education department wrote to government and aided schools, asking them to declare results on March 31. But the letter was also sent to private schools, including BCM school, which is already in the centre of a controversy over delayed results.

 Parents of BCM school students have been accusing the school of withholding results demanding payment of the entire fee, violating the orders of the fee committee. They said the letter by the education department has given school authorities a shot in the arm.
 
 Despite the education department issuing a clarification saying that the instructions were only meant for government schools, school authorities scheduled the release date for March 31, citing the letter from the district education officer (DEO) office, said parents.
 
 However, school authorities denied charges and said result has been delayed due to some administrative reason. Parents said the school earlier scheduled dates for results of different sections.According to the schedule, result of the kindergarten section was to be announced on March 14, result of students up to Class V was to be declared on March 18 and result of students from Class VI was declared on March 22. However, school authorities did not declare the result on March 14, after which parents staged a protest and met deputy commissioner Ravi Bhagat.
 
 Parents said the school released the result of the kindergarten section after the DEO office wrote a letter asking them not to withhold results, result of other classes was not declared on the grounds of the letter from the education department.
 
 Parents said school authorities asked them to get books of private publishers available at one shop, for which they submitted a complaint with assistant commissioner Swati Tiwana. Despite repeated attempts, Tiwana could not be reached for comments.
 
 Meanwhile, district education officer (secondary) Sarabjit Singh admitted the letter was sent by mistake and was later withdrawn. A corrigendum was also sent to the school. He clarified that the letter wherein schools were asked to release results on March 31 was for government and aided schools and not for private schools.
 
 School principal D P Gu leria said result has been delayed due to administrative reasons and it has nothing to do with the letter. He said it will be declared on March 31. He also refuted other allegations.
 
 “The new session will start on April 3 and result is being declared on March 31.Parents will be left with only two days to make arrangements, including books and uniforms. Parents also complained to the fee committee of the high court against the school after officials asked them to submit hiked fees, which is against the orders of fee committee,“ said Sandeep Singh, vice-president, of parents association.
 
 “After schools postponed the result, parents showed a copy of the corrigendum sent by the education department wherein the department said the letter was not meant for private schools. But school authorities said they have shifted the date and cannot do it again,“ said Sanjeev Jain, media coordinator, Parents' Association.
 
