GURUGRAM: The state’s   is ailing from severe manpower crunch, among other factors, but there are apparently a few   who are willing to take up government jobs there.

 Against 662 posts of doctors — both   and   — advertised in the beginning of November last year, the state   department has received only 178 applications so far — in sharp contrast to long queues of   who turn up for jobs in police, education and other government departments. And this, even after extending the deadline for submission of applications from December-end to January 31.
 
 Confirming the situation, district child urban nodal officer, Haryana civil services, Dr M P Singh said: “Applications were invited for 662  . Due to lack of response, the deadline was extended by a month. Yet, not enough candidates have come forward.”
 
 Sources said the lack of interest among doctors to work in government hospitals has been badly affecting the state’s   system. 
 
 Currently, against a sanctioned strength of 3,250 posts, only around 1,700 doctors are taking care of a population of 2.25 crore in the state. The numbers include both general physicians and specialists. In Gurgaon, out of 160 sanctioned posts at General Hospital, 45 are vacant. 
 
 Officials at the department revealed only 15 specialists had joined the state health services in the past 10 years or so. In an ideal scenario, they added, there should be at least 6,000 doctors in Haryana. But, probably due to lack of interest among doctors, the government has not revised (increased) the number of sanctioned posts in over a decade now.
 
 Experts blame the fixed promotion policy, which is not based on merit, illogical salary scales and lack of benefits, for doctors’ aversion towards government jobs.
 
 For example, payscales for MBBS-degree holding general physicians and MD-degree holding specialists vary only by Rs 4,000. While a general physician get Rs 52,000, a specialist is offered Rs 56,000 per month. “There is no separate cadre for specialists,” said a health official. On the other hand, private hospitals not only pay better, they also provide additional perks. Naturally, doctors prefer private sector jobs over government posts. 
 
 Further, there are only six residences for the 115 doctors working at Gurgaon Civil Hospital. Also, there is no provision for government vehicles for doctors, who live in rented flats outside the hospital complex. 
 
 
