Chennai: Suryoday Small Finance Bank Ltd, which recently raised Rs 158 crore, is looking at making "convenience banking" its forte as it transitions from a MFI-NBFC. Currently valued at Rs 512 crore, CEO R Bhaskar Babu tells TOI the differences Suryoday will be bringing to the market. Excerpts

 How was the recent funding and how will you be deploying capital?
 
 "We want to focus on key growth markets like Mumbai, Chennai and other existing markets. Rather than be in 25 states in India, we want to be in a few states and expand from our core centres in a hub and spoke approach. Our recent funding saw interest from investors as varied as HDFC Holdings, HDFC Life, ASK Pravi Group, IFC (of the World Bank Group) . The foreign shareholding post the issuance stands reduced to 46.3% as compared to the 49% FDI permissible under extant regulations for small finance banks."
 
 With so many other players in the field, how does Suryoday plan to standout from the compeition?
 
 "For one, we have decided to go for attractive interest rates on deposits up to 9-9.75% for senior citizens for a tenure of 1-2 years. For savings account deposits of up to Rs 1 lakh, the interest rate would be 6.25% , for deposits above Rs 1 lakh and up to Rs 10 lakhs the interest will be 7.25 % and for above Rs 10 lakh, the interest is fixed at 7%. We aim at attracting more senior citizens and women customers with such schemes."
 
 "We are also looking at ‘Convenience Banking’. Instead of the vendor or small businessman going to the bank branch, our bank representative will visit and transact with him at his home or shop."
 
 Would personalised banking mean higher costs? Because of the manpower involved?
 
 "We already had the concept, as an MFI where our field officers go for collection of EMI on our loans. We are now expanding the concept to include deposits. We may charge about Rs. 50 per month to cover our costs. We believe there is a real need for this kind of a service. 
 
 Your local grocer or tea shop or fast food joint owner does not have the time to go to a bank branch to deposit money every day. But he is earning sizeable sums of money - sometimes upwards of Rs 50,000 a month. Many of our MSME customers have said they are open to saving money, provided someone else handles the paperwork for them. So that's how we came up with our concept of "convenience banking." 
 
 There is a charge that MFI activity has not really converted into an entrepreneurial drive. Your take?
 
 "Critics of MFI are quick to point out we aren't churning out women entrepreneurs by the dozen. While I'd admit that only 10% of our women loanees are starting a new venture, more than 50% are trying to upscale an existing business. The output of the MFI industry should be measured in terms of total increase in productivity in a district or taluk, rather than how many new businesses."
 
 And by increase in productivity?
 
 "Let me put it like this - if a woman, who sells dosas on a pushcart, takes a loan from us, she might not start a new venture. But she will upscale her existing business into a brick and mortar shop. People need to stop thinking of women SHGs purely in terms of making candles, pickles, bags or phenol. 
 
 There are even women who take aspirational loans. Say a woman wants a smartphone for Rs 6,500, an upgrade on her basic Rs 3,000 phone. There are women who take loans for their sons, who might need margin money for a bike or a car, because they want to work with Ola, Swiggy or Flipkart. Ultimately, we are seeing productive activity because of our loans."
 
 
