PUNE: A convict in a   case was bludgeoned to death by a   in the Yerawada central jail around 10.45am on Saturday. 

 The murder convict, Dinesh Suresh Dabhade (32), murdered Sukhdeo Meghraj Mehkarkar (32) at room number five on the second lane of B-Yard over a dispute of sprinkling water on him inside the jail kitchen around eight days ago, said Yerawada police inspector Ashok Kadam. "Mehkarkar was busy writing a letter when Dabhade came from the rear and hit him with a stone on his head twice. The victim succumbed to severe head injuries before he could be administered medical treatment," said Kadam.
 
 Additional director-general of police (prisons) Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay said, "There was some minor verbal duel between the accused and the victim. It seems the incident happened due to a sudden provocation. The police are investigating." 
 
 This is the second case of murder in a state jail within a fortnight. On June 23, the officials of Byculla jail allegedly killed woman murder convict Manjula Shetye. The Yerawada jail murder came to light after an inmate, Pravin Pawar, alerted jail guards   and his colleague, Sandeep Borate, patrolling outside B-Yard that Dabhade had killed Mehkarkar.
 
 Pawar and two other jail inmates - Balu Dilip Bansode (23) and Sachin   (35) - told the jail officials that a dispute had taken place between Dabade and Mehkarkar in the kitchen a few days ago. The witnesses said Dabhade had bludgeoned Mehkarkar to death in a fit of rage. The jail guard, Toke, registered a complaint against Dabhade under Section 302 (murder) of IPC with the Yerawada police station.
 
 Inspector Kadam said, "Investigations revealed that the convicts lodged in the cells of B-Yard were released in the morning for some time for walking in an open space when Dabhade picked up a stone and bludgeoned Mehkarkar."
 
 Inspector Kadam said, "We have prepared panchanama of the murder spot and in the process of recording the statement of the eyewitnesses. Dabhade will be arrested after seeking permission from the competent authority. He will be interrogated to find out if there was any other motive behind the murder. A chargesheet will be filed against him within 90 days after seeking his custody."
 
