Kolkata: The city has received more than double the rain it gets during the first eleven days of July. It could continue to be lashed by heavy showers if a low-pressure trough — that has been triggering rain since Monday evening — continues to remain active.

 According to the Met office, the continuing precipitation has made this fortnight the wettest since July 2015. So far this month, Kolkata has received 261.6mm of rain, which is 101% more than normal. Almost half the amount, or 123.2mm, was recorded from Monday morning till Tuesday evening. On Monday night, the city received 107.3mm, the season’s highest so far. This, despite the fact that big systems are yet to hit  . The city has already received 69% of the total rain due this month. On an average, Kolkata receives 376mm rain in July. 
 
 The city had received 319.7mm during the first 11 days of July that year, which was 146% above normal.
 
  “A low-pressure trough that stretches between east Uttar Pradesh and   passes through Gangetic Bengal. This trough has been active since last week and has led to heavy rain. It exists at a height of about 1.5 km and if it climbs down further, the rain could get heavier from Wednesday,” said GK Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Alipore.
 
 But a wet fortnight is not unusual in July, pointed out weathermen. “What is slightly unusual, though, is the heavy rain despite the absence of big systems. This time, an active low-pressure trough has been triggering rain. If it continues to remain active or climbs down, we could be heading for an even more wet period,” added Das. If that doesn’t happen, showers will remain ‘light to moderate’.
 
 While on Monday evening, it was Kolkata that received heavy showers even as the adjoining districts remained relatively dry, Tuesday’s showers left Howrah, Hoogly, South and North 24 Parganas and Burdwan drenched as well. It was the same trough that caused a heavy downpour last Friday when Kolkata received 66.8 mm of rain.
 
 The rany beginning to the month, however, didn’t guarantee that July will end on a wet mote as well. “It often happens that the rainfall slows down considerably in the absence of low-pressure systems that drive monsoon precipitation. This year, for instance, June was relatively dry in the absence of big systems. But low-pressure troughs across south Bengal and over   have revived the monsoon currents. Even if the existing troughs lose steam, it is likely that new systems will form and take over,” explained a Met officer. July and August are the wettest monsoon months in south Bengal and Kolkata.
 
