NAGPUR: His Holiness  , spiritual head of the   community, on Monday stressed the importance of education and cleanliness and asked citizens to be more environment-conscious and encouraged them to strive for excellence in their respective career.

 More than 10,000 people from all over the country had gathered at the newly inaugurated Sadar mosque to listen to the Syedna to mark the death anniversary of Maulatena Fatema, daughter of Prophet Mohammad. 
 
 Tears welled up in eyes and chests were beaten as the Syedna recounted the difficulties faced by Maulatena Fatema. His Holiness also recounted the martyrdom of Imam Hussain who was assassinated after being kept hungry and thirsty for 30 days in the historic city of Karbala in Iraq. 
 
 He called Nagpur as one of the ‘cleanest and greenest’ cities of the country. He ended the sermon with the tale of Maulatena Fatema which was followed by afternoon prayers. 
 
 Hasnain Shakir, public relations representative for Nagpur Dawoodi Bohra community, said, “This is a momentous occasion for us as we have been waiting for many years for His Holiness to come here. The entire Vidarbha region is geared up to play host and receive the blessings of the Syedna.”
 
 “It is an auspicious occasion as the Syedna has come to visit us after four years. It is our good fortune that he inaugurated this new mosque. It is a great moment for us Nagpurians. 
 
 “This moment will always stay in our minds and we will forever cherish it,” said 45-year-old Durriya Lal, member of the Dawoodi Bohra community. 
 
 “During Syedna’s stay at Nagpur, various community programmes will be held. This includes conducting business trade fairs, visit to   and a ceremony of   (mass marriage). 
 
 Around 1,400 Bohra families who live in Nagpur are expected to welcome Syedna to the city and partake in the programmes. Senior government officials of the state are also expected to meet the spiritual head and discuss various issues for betterment of the city and its inhabitants,” quoted the Dawoodi Bohra website.
 
 
