NAGPUR: “Every artist working in a society must take   on issues affecting the common people of society. They must share their views without hesitation, as it will be the steps in the right decision,” said Shripad Aparajit senior journalist on Sunday. He was speaking as a key note speaker in a seminar organized by Maharashtra Gandhi Smarak Nidhi on the topic ‘Role of artist and literary in current scenario’. The lecture was organized at Kasturba Bhavan, Bajaj Nagar. “Criticism in a society is important and even necessary but criticizing the family of the person with whom your ideology do not meet is inhumanly,” Aparajit added.

 He also praised the stand taken by Sonu   on his current tweet which sparked controversy and fight on social media on Nigam’s tweet but he also did not agreed the way Nigam behaved and tonsured his head. “As a society people must take a stand and every idea or view must be given equal respect,” he added.
 
 Ashok Rana well known history researcher was the chief guest at the programme, in his address he said, “In a democratic country which runs on constitution every individual has a right a expressing his views, but since ancient times people silenced on the basic of their casts. So, it is the job of an artist or writer to stand against such behaviour and present the truth”. “Governments will change but the work of artist stays, which will create our future,” he added.
 
 Social activist Anwar Rajan was another key note speaker at the lecture in his address he said, “From Stone Age to current age, it is art and literature which has preserved our culture. Changing the rotten traditions in the society is the job of an artist and creating equality by the literary work”. Taking about incidents caused by self-proclaimed Gau Rakshaks the social activist said, “ The people in government has always carried out conspiracy of silence to keep the ideas of people under control, but artist must stand against such suppression and present what is truth,” he added.
 
 Suniti Deo former HOD of Technical Department Nagpur University was the president at the programme. Arun Morghade well known artist and Sunil Patil was also present at the event.
 
