Kolkata: Moving a step closer to seeking legal action against Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Bill, the   has convened a meeting of its senior office-bearers in the country on Thursday. 

 The headquarters at Delhi will hold a teleconference with the state unit presidents and secretaries to decide on the approach, and a meeting will be organized on March 11. IMA sources indicated the decks had been cleared for a lawsuit against the contentious bill that aimed to make hospitals and doctors accountable for every medicine prescribed and test recommended.
 
 “We are in favour of accountability. But the proposed law requires doctors to seek patients’ consent for every drug they prescribe, which will be time-consuming. Then, doctors will attend to fewer patients every day, and hence charge more. This will make consultation more expensive even as it puts every clinical move under the scanner,” said  ,  .
 
 The bill, which has already been tabled, could also lead hospitals to charge a hefty advance to skirt the allegation of extortion at the time of release, said Aggarwal. “The new law now forbids hospitals from recovering money if a patient fails to pay the bill. Even though it allows hospitals to recover dues, the provision is vague. So, most hospitals will now be inclined to charge a bigger amount at the time of admission as a kind of security deposit to ensure no dues are left at the time of discharge. This is not going to help most patients. It will take private healthcare beyond the reach of the majority,” Aggarwal added. At least two private hospitals in Kolkata said they were contemplating restructuring their bill pattern to recover dues within the framework of the new rules.
 
 Though the IMA opposed the bill at the national level and declared its intention to move court against it, the state unit supported it. To secure support for the IMA legal action, some doctors in Kolkata will meet on March 10. It could even form a body and initiate the legal action in Kolkata. But the IMA chose to keep its plans under wraps. “We are now preparing the ground. Consultations are on with various bodies and fora. Our office-bearers across the country are putting their heads together as well,” Aggarwal added.
 
 While the bill needed amendment, taking the matter to court could unnecessarily escalate the crisis, said cardiac surgeon  . “More than legal action, we need a consultation between interested parties. The bill unfairly exposes doctors to liabilities for which they can’t be held accountable. We need to review the provisions and arrive at acceptable rules. It can’t be denied the existing laws have to be upgraded. But the purpose will be lost if we encourage a conflict,” he said.
 
 
