RAMANATHAPURAM: More than 300kg of sea cucumbers meant to be smuggled for   was seized by the   police station on Tuesday. Police are now looking out for a 10-member gang involved in the incident. Meanwhile, wildlife officials from Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park (GoMMNP) convened a meeting with fishermen leaders of Mandapam after frequent incidents of sea cucumber smuggling were reported in the region recently. The forest department sought their cooperation in curbing sea cucumber smuggling turning rampant along the coast. 

 On Tuesday morning, Rameswaram Temple inspector, Jayanthi received a tip-off that sea cucumbers are being smuggled from a coconut grove in Rameswaram – Dhanushkodi Road. Based on the information, she raided a farm of one Villayutham from the locality. After seeing the police team, the gang, approximately 10 of them fled the spot. Police found that more than 300kg of sea cucumbers in the coconut grove were processed and kept ready for shipping. The seized consignment has been handed over to wildlife officials from GoMMNP. 
 
 As police were busting the smuggling, wildlife warden of GoMMNP,   convened a meeting with fishermen leaders from Mandapam on Tuesday afternoon. On Sunday alone, three incidents were reported in   where forest and marine police arrested three people and seized 380kg of sea cucumbers including 100kg live sea cucumbers which were released in the sea later. 
 
 Bilgi said that many smugglers, who are caught are found to be fish workers working in the country and trawl boats. “We sought the cooperation of fishermen leaders to dissuade their fishermen indulging in smuggling. We also sensitised the leaders that when the fish workers utilise the fishing boats, the crafts will be confiscated by the forest department, thereby they would lose their means of livelihood,” he said. 
 
 Since recent incidents have occurred in Mandapam, the department convened the meeting with Mandapam fishermen to create awareness among fisher folk, forest department sources said. 
 
