NAGPUR: Justa Causa, the annual festival of   Of Law, kicked off on Friday, which will see participation from various colleges across the country.

 Speaking at the inaugural function, Mahendra Bhandari, director (law) of SVKM’s Narsee Monjee Institute of   in Mumbai, said, “Human beings are gifted with intellectual prowess and have a tendency to accumulate property. That is why it’s called intellectual property.”
 
 A national seminar and various competitions such national moot court, legal drafting, quiz, turncoat debate, legal essay writing and crossword will be held over the next few days. 
 
 The theme of this year’s Justa Causa is ‘Intellectual Property Rights: Issues and Challenges’.
 
 Bhandari said, “Technology is making a lot of disruptions in the society. We need to sensitize ourselves on how we can use technology to the advancement of our country.”
 
 He also talked about the theme of the festival. “India is the fourth largest biodiversity in the world. Its judicial wisdom and traditional knowledge is immense. Therefore, the Biodversity Act needs to be implemented to strengthen our cause of Intellectual Property Rights.”
 
 “The hospitality industry misuses our traditions, symbols, rituals, etc. We need to sensitize students that this is rich knowledge and that it needs to be protected,” Bhandari said. He gave the example of Amazon selling footwear with the tri-colour flag on it and how it was refuted.
 
 “There is a dearth of good IP lawyers in the country. Proper training on IPR should be administered to lawyers and judges, particularly of the lower judiciary. They should be taught about the nuances and technical dimensions of IP,” he added.
 
 Justice Prasanna Varale of Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench was the chief guest of the event, while Virendra Kumar, vice-chancellor of   was the guest of honour.
 
 SP Kane, vice-chancellor of  , was the chairperson of the programme, while Mahendra Bhandari was the keynote speaker.
 
 College principal Shrikant Komawar was also present at the event. Mrunmayi Kukde and Chinmayee Nimkhedkar compered the programme, while professor Adhara Deshpande proposed the vote of thanks.
 
 In his introductory address, Kumar said, “Lawyer does not know what the next challenge will be. For him/her, every case is a challenge.”
 
 He then elaborated the role played by lawyers in society and their importance.
 
