It all came into focus in 2015 when Hollywood star   kickstarted the debate for equal pay in the film industry. Soon thereafter, some of the leading women in Bollywood, including Priyanka Chopra and  , addressed the issue, while South actress Aindrita Ray’s comments on the disparity in pay last year even had many pointing fingers at her for speaking out aloud. We get two feisty actresses in South cinema, both known to speak their mind out, to debate on this topic...

 Be the change by producing your films
 One of the coolest thing for me was that I was a share holder in my first film, Lucia. This made me understand the process of filmmaking better and enjoy it. When it comes to debating the idea of equal pay, one needs to address two points: do you carry with you a market for audience and if the film weighs on your shoulders. It is tough to quantify these. If one can look closely, there are very few like a Ramya, who have that perfect mix of demand and crowd pull. Most of the films deal with heroism and cater to the patriarchal system, and the heroine just has to look pretty. I think that one doesn’t have the right to demand equal pay there. But, there is a shift towards a change with heroines taking a step towards creating content that has focus on them away from the usual commercial fare. Anushka Sharma is one of the few who has managed to successfully create content and partner and claim stake over a new market. I feel one can be the change by producing your films, which also ensures creative satisfaction. 
 —  , actress
 
 Cinema is intrinsically male-dominated
 To be honest, I don’t know if this is ever going to work. From time immemorial, we have seen how the film industry is intrinsically male dominated. This debate on equal pay might work better in the IT sector and MNCs, where the situation is different and more conducive to this debate, as opposed to the film industry. The problem lies with the fact that the audience still wants to see a hero beat 10-20 villains and cheer for him. There are just one or two actresses, like  , who command that kind of following. But, in the South, it is a tough ask to change this. The situation is slightly better in the North, where a   or a Priyanka Chopra are commanding the space and following, though it will take a long time to get towards equal pay. While Deepika might have a Piku which won over audience with its content, a Happy New Year with its star casting frontlined by   still makes for quicker returns. 
 —  , actress
 
 
