NEW DELHI: Snuffing out her chances to succeed her “friend and sister” J   as chief minister of Tamil Nadu, the Supreme Court convicted   general secretary   in a 21-year-old disproportionate assets case on Tuesday and ordered her to be jailed forthwith to serve out a four-year jail term.

 In a unanimous judgment, a bench of Justices   and Amitava Roy “unhesitatingly” set aside Karnataka High Court’s judgment “erroneously” acquitting Jayalalithaa,   and two others in May 2015.
 
 The conviction means Sasikala cannot contest elections for 10 years: a ban which will extend beyond the next two assembly polls. Under Section 8 of the Representation of the People Act, a mere conviction without sentence under Prevention of Corruption Act disqualifies a person from contesting elections for six years. This section also disqualifies any person, who has been convicted and sentenced to “not less than two years” imprisonment for any offence, for six years after serving out the jail term.
 
 The order eliminated Sasikala as a possible successor of Jayalalithaa and strengthened the hands of her challenger, acting chief minister  .
 
 The Sasikala camp swiftly reacted to the setback by electing   as leader of the legislature party and staking claim to form the government under his leadership.
 
 While there was no clarity on who might prevail in the numbers game, the apex court was unequivocal in determining the guilt of Sasikala and her co-accused.
 
 The bench restored in totality the September 27, 2014 verdict of a Bengaluru trial court convicting Jayalalithaa, Sasikala, VN Sudhakaran and J Elavarasi in the DA case under Prevention of Corruption Act and sentenced each of them to four years imprisonment. The case was registered by a Chennai trial court in 1996 on a complaint filed by  .
 
 Although the case against Jayalalithaa has abated following her death, the court has ordered that the Rs 100 crore fine slapped on the former CM be realised.
 
 The SC said, “In our comprehension, the course adopted by the trial court cannot be faulted with.” The trial court had convicted all four, holding Jayalalithaa to be the kingpin and the three others to be willing accomplices in amassing disproportionate wealth of over Rs 53.60 crore. 
 
 It had sentenced each to four years imprisonment. It had also imposed a Rs 10 crore fine each on Sasikala and the two others.
 
 The convictions were, however, upturned by the HC which held that the mismatch between the assets of the quartet and their legal sources of income was less than 10% allowed under the law.
 
 Sasikala had spent 13 days in prison after she had surrendered before the trial court on January 31, 1997 till she was granted bail on February 12, 1997. She was taken back to jail along with Jayalalithaa on September 27, 2014 after the trial court convicted her. With Jayalalithaa, she was released after 20 days when the SC granted bail to them on October 17, 2014.
 
 Thus, she has undergone 33 days imprisonment. This means, she will have to be in jail for a further period of three years, 10 months and 27 days.
 
 The razor sharp main judgment, running into 563 pages and authored by Justice Ghose, shredded the defence of Jayalalithaa and Sasikala in the DA case. The bench found the trial court verdict to be flawless. 
 
 It said, “Sasikala, Sudhakaran and Elavarasi would surrender before the trial court forthwith.
 
 The trial court is ordered to take immediate steps to ensure that Sasikala, Sudhakaran and Elavarasi serve out the remainder sentence awarded to them and take further steps in compliance with the SC’s judgment...”
 
 Referring to the May 11, 2015 HC judgment by Justice C R Kumaraswamy acquitting Jayalalithaa, Sasikala and others, the bench said, “We are of the unhesitant opinion that the impugned judgment and order of the HC suffers from manifest errors.”
 
 It praised trial court judge Michael D’Cunha’s meticulous scrutiny of evidence, wisdom in discarding evidence that was immaterial and leniency in giving benefit of doubt on documents to allow the accused to narrow the gap between income and expenditure.
 
 The SC said the trial court was meticulous, sensitive, vigilant and judicious in appraisal. In valuing assets, it excluded a Rs 32 lakh towards price of sarees and further reduced the value of gold and diamond to the extent of Rs 2 crore, the SC said.
 
