AHMEDABAD: A   located on   has allegedly duped consumers in a land deal, according to a complaint received by Consumer Education & Research Centre (CERC). So far, around 20   were registered with CERC’s complaints department in connection with the case.

 According to CERC officials, the real estate firm announced the sale of plots near Bagodra Highway in 2015, under the ‘Good Luck Motel and Plot Scheme.’ As part of the scheme, one can purchase plots by making full payment and would get possession after three years. Meanwhile, the real estate firm promised to pay 3% of the consideration money as monthly rent for 36 months, till the plot was handed over to the purchaser.
 
 “I purchased two plots, one in my name and the other in joint ownership with my sister in September 2015. According to the terms of the scheme, I paid Rs4.11 lakh for one of the plots and Rs3.75 lakh for the other one,” said 37-year-old Suryakant Shah, who is yet to receive any monthly rent as promised by the real estate firm owners.
 
 “The firm owes me a monthly rent of Rs14,663. I was given 36 post-dated cheques at the time of signing the rent agreement and the ownership papers, promising possession after three years from the date of purchase. However, the first cheque itself bounced,” he added.
 
 Despite repeated follow-ups, Shah is yet to receive the money. CERC officials confirmed that there are several other cases including senior citizens, each of whom have invested an average of Rs 5 lakh in the scheme. Neither do they have the possession of the land nor the rent.
 
 Complainants who faced the issue claim that they have registered an FIR against the firm with Satellite police station and even had a legal notice issued to the firm.
 
  “All the post-dated cheques have bounced and bank officials told me that the account from which the cheques were issued has been closed. I don’t want the plot any more and want a refund,” said 74-year-old, Vithaldas Himjiyani, who invested Rs 9 lakh to purchase two plots in the scheme.
 
 “We have taken up the case for mediation and will ensure that the complainants get due compensation. In fact, in the past we had received similar complaints against another builder whose case is being heard at the consumer court,” said an official. Despite repeated attempts, officials of the real-estate firm could not be reached for comments.
 
 
