AURANGABAD: Maharashtra director general of police (DGP)   has stressed on   at the grass-roots level while speaking to superintendents of police, police commissioners, IGs and additional director generals from across the state during the   that concluded on Thursday in the city.

 In the meeting that lasted for three hours each on Wednesday and Thursday, Mathur asked the officers to ensure that the response of the police should be professional and without any discrimination in any given situation. He also discussed issues including  , prevention, detection of offences, conviction rate, housing, establishment, training and CCTNS and reviewed the situation.
 
 The state police chief also reviewed the preparations for the elections scheduled for this year, as in all  , 197 Panchayat Samitis, including the nine from Aurangabad district and 18 municipal corporations from across the state are going for polls this year.
 
 An officer attending the conference told TOI that the top cop had categorically asked the unit commanders to ensure that in situations demanding use of force, the men in khaki should use lathi as taught to them during the drills and training period. “He expressed concern over the blatant and irresponsible use of the stick, at times injuring people seriously,” he said.
 
 The state police chief, after reviewing the conviction rate which has reached an all-time high of 32%, has asked the unit commanders to ensure that the given standard operating procedures (SOPs) are followed. This would ensure the conviction rate touches an average of 50% in the state. He also categorically asked the officers to ensure that the incidents turning into serious law and order situations are prevented and nipped in the bud.
 
 Attending the crime conference for the first time, newly-appointed additional chief secretary (home) Sudhir Kumar Srivastav asked the DGP to initiate “Security Perception Index” for evaluating the performance of the department. 
 
 He suggested that there should be SOPs at the police station level to deal with each and every situation. In cases of handling complaints, there has to be an SOP for handling a non-cognizable offence to serious property and body offences and also in law and order situation.
 
 “The job of police is diverse in nature and government is there to back you. The police are the most important department in the state and play a key role in creating the government’s image and perception in the mind of the citizens,” he said. 
 
 During the conference, Srivastav informed the officers that after the elections scheduled in February, the state will fill all the 7,400 vacant posts of constables across the state. In addition to this, vacant posts of PSI would be filled through promotions and recruitment would be carried out for the remaining 840 posts of PSIs in the state.
 
 The senior bureaucrat informed that the state intends to construct over one lakh homes for the policemen across the state and funds are being released at frequent intervals.
 
