CHANDIGARH: The   has launched a probe to look into the alleged   for non-existent four lakh students in the  . Officials of the school education department have been deputed to examine the  .

 The inquiry has been conducted in pursuance to the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, which on November 18, 2016, had asked the department to conduct a probe into the allegations from an IAS officer.
 
 Additional chief secretary, department of school education, P K Dass confirmed that he had been assigned the task to examine the record of various schools to found any misappropriation of funds though fake admissions.
 
 “We have devised a formula to find ghost admissions in schools. All admissions cannot be termed as fake or ghosts. For example, a student can study privately but his admission can be on rolls of a government school. In such a case, we will try to get the information if any scholarship amount or subsidy in the name of such a student has been withdrawn or not. Our aim is to find if any misappropriation or siphoning of government funds has been done or not. All admissions where student were admitted but not attended, cannot be termed as ghost or fake admission,” Dass explained.
 
 He also confirmed that section officers of the department had been deployed to collect data and the entire exercise has been done under the supervision of the director of the department. According to him, the probe would be completed by March.
 
 The matter related to alleged fake admissions in the state run schools was first discussed in May 2016 before the high court during the hearing of a case related to surplus teachers. 
 
 Certain reports emerged that as against enrolment of 22 lakh students in government schools, only 18 lakh students were found by the department. The remaining four lakh admissions were claimed to be fake. It has also been alleged that these four lakh admissions were shown in the record to get funds received under various schemes of the government.
 
 The alleged scam had surfaced in March 2016 during computerization and verification of entire data of the students of government schools in the state education department.
 
 On hearing about the alleged irregularities, the HC on May 13, 2016, had asked the state to conduct inquiry headed by a senior officer. “Responsibility should be fixed and action taken commensurate to the guilty so that the same has deterrent effect on others. We hope that the state will be serious in the present matter and set an example so that none dares to think of these kinds of designs of corruption,” the bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal had ordered. The HC again on November 18 had asked the government to probe the issue.
 
