(Cleared/ Gopa)

 The murder of a class XII student on a busy city road on Sunday evening is the seventh killing to rock the city this year since January. While  , previous enmity and provocative behaviour have been cited as motives for the murders, police have also been facing charges of dereliction of duty by way of not registering complaints in many instances of robbery. This alleged reluctance to file complaints has been giving criminals a free run, say residents. 
 
 In a daylight robbery, K Arul, a lawyer from Villapuram, was allegedly robbed of his gold chain when he was walking past river Vaigai from Arapalayam bus terminal on his way to his friend’s house on Sunday evening. He managed to catch one of the robbers while two others escaped. But Karimedu police, under whose jurisdiction the spot falls, refused to register a case. 
 
 Arul says “The Karimedu police started asking irrelevant questions like who purchased the chain and wanted to see its bill. When I said it was my wife who bought it, they wanted my wife to come to the station and lodge complaint. On being informed, a group of lawyer friends thronged the station and pressured the police to register a complaint. But even that didn’t work and I had to leave the place.”
 
 Arul sent a complaint over registered post on Monday and is waiting for a communication from the station. In another recent instance, R Gokul, a native of Madurai working in corporate company, lost his laptop with bag in the Mattuthavani bus terminal. When he approached the concerned Anna Nagar police, they refused to lodge a complaint. The policemen in the station agreed to register a complaint only after he spoke to a top police officer. 
 
 Data shows that robbery has come down in Madurai city limits in 2016, when compared to the previous year. However, the robberies that do take place have only created more panic among the city residents. R Vijayarajan, Madurai district secretary of CPI(M), says that police stations have been discouraging registration of complainants. “This has forced many to think twice before going to the station with complaints of thefts and robberies. They should register complaints and give receipts for the same,”he said. 
 
 When contacted, Madurai city police commissioner Shailesh Kumar Yadav said that people could contact him through facebook and WhatsApp to bring up the issue. “We have been widely publicising the numbers,” he said. He also took up the lawyer’s issue and immediately sought explanation from the officer concerned. However, Karimedu inspector T Murugan claimed that they had not turned down any such complaint. “In fact, the lawyer was been creating issues under the influence of alcohol,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, police are yet to make any headway in the investigation into the boy's murder. Shailesh Kumar Yadav said that they had got some clues and were working on them. They were yet to ascertain whether it was a robbery attempt or were there any other motive. 
 
 Robberies & Murder Unlimited 
 
 March 11: A 48-year-old man from K Pudur robbed of gold ornaments and cash at knife point 
 
 February 18: Mobile stolen from G Manikandan, an engineering student; 3 arrested immediately.
 
 February 1: Alagar, 21, from Anupanadi robbed of his two-wheeler in Avaniyapuram police limit 
 
 January 25 : Stalin, an engineering student, and his uncle, attacked, robbed of cash and mobile phone 
 
 December 2016: C Chinnapandi, 32, from Tallakulam murdered, robbed of mobile phone, Rs 18, 000 cash
 
 
