After pulling the strings behind the scene to consolidate his position in the party and government, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy has started hitting hard and direct at T T V   by booking a slew of police cases.

 The first to face police action was Nanjil Sampath, the most vocal and vociferous supporter of Dhinakaran. A slew of cases have been slapped on him based on complaints from BJP cadres accusing him of slandering their state president  .
 
 Subsequently, a case was registered against Dhinakaran and his supporter, actor Senthil, based on a complaint from AIADMK Trichy MP P Kumar that the duo made derogatory remarks about him. What came as a shock even for Dhinakaran supporters is when the TN cops knocked at the doors of their Coorg resort searching for   in connection with a 4-month-old case of abetment to suicide of a Namakkal-based contractor. “We followed all rules,” said a CB-CID officer.
 
 But   is cautious enough not to go after all rebel MLAs backing Dhinakaran; instead he wants to isolate the Sasikala family members alone. He hopes that once the MLAs backing Dhinakaran get the message, they would no longer support him and instead fall in line.
 
 Given the emerging pattern, it appears that this is only the beginning and EPS would harden his stand in the coming days.
 
 EPS supporters say all MLAs and party functionaries backing Dhinakaran will return to their fold once the party symbol and name are won back. “Then Dhinakaran will be completely isolated and taking action against him would be easier,’’ said an MLA from the western region. Sources said the intelligence wing of the state police have been asked to monitor the activities, business transactions of Dhinakaran supporters and their family members.
 
 On the other hand, EPS is also not against talks. “He actually wants to play the carrot and stick card. The recent measures are only to coerce and make the rebel MLAs fall in line rather than hound them with punitive action,” said another functionary.
 
 Dhinakaran alleged on Wednesday that the EPS government was threatening to file false cases against his loyalist MLAs who are camping in Karnataka if they did not support the chief minister.
 
 “They (MLAs) are being intimidated by police personnel... They are being asked to support chief minister Palaniswami,” he alleged.
 
 The MLAs would file a complaint with the Karnataka police and “we will move court seeking action against (Tamil Nadu) police and the chief minister,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, former minister V Senthil Balaji told reporters in Coorg that Tamil Nadu police personnel came to his room in the resort and asked him “to talk to the chief minister or face police action.”
 
 Political analyst Ramu Manivann said these actions however would only harden Dhinakaran. “He has no choice and nothing more to lose. So he would toughen his stand and continue to fight EPS and OPS,” he said. 
 
