NEW DELHI:   member Naresh   surprised many with his remark on Monday in the  , calling his party's defeat in the UP elections a “big jolt“ while at tributing BJP's historic win in the state to Prime Minister Narendra  .

 Agrawal's comments came even as the opposition targeted the government over demonetisation, farm distress and rising non-performing assets (NPAs) during a discussion on the Budget.
 
 “I want to congratulate Modiji.It's his win, not BJP's. People have voted for PM Modi, not BJP as a party. Jhatka laga hai...abhi hamein flow me aane me time lagega. (It's a big jolt. It will take time for us to be back in the flow),“ Agrawal said.
 
 “We are political people. Winning or losing is not permanent for us. We have seen a lot of waves (referring to Modi wave). We have seen the wave of 1971, wave of 1977, 1980, 1984 and 1989.A lot of waves came in this country .This BJP only , in one of the waves once, was restricted to only two seats in Parliament. Nothing is permanent in politics, it is temporary. Only permanent word in politics is `bhootpoorv' (former). We should keep that in mind,“ Agrawal said while looking at the treasury benches.
 
 On Aditya Nath Yogi, he said, they had all seen his political image and now his administrative acumen will be on test. “We have given 6 months to this government,“ Agrawal said.
 
 He said that BJP had promised waiver of farmers' loans in UP in first state cabinet meet, which didn't happen on Sunday . He also questioned the government on the issue of farm loan waiver, asking how the loans of nationalised banks can be waived off by the state government.
 
 
 
 
 At the swearing-in ceremony of the new government in UP,   poured his heart out to BJP members, bitterly blaming his party's debacle on son  's decision to align with Congress in disregard of the   founder's known opposition to the Gandhi-Nehru dynasty. He is learnt to have told top BJP functionaries that he was “not in favour“ of the alliance between SP and Congress in UP and hence barely campaigned for the party.
 
 
