KOLKATA: With three of its students making it to the top 10 — including one in the top five — in  ,   performed best among the schools of Kolkata. What’s more, over 75% of its students scored more than 80% — a first for the school.

 Aritra Kumar Mondal, Satyam Kar and Soumyajit Basak ranked fifth, sixth and ninth respectively. Of the 151 students who appeared for the board exams from Jadavpur Vidyapith this year, 58 scored more than 90%, 53 got more than 80% and 31 received between 60% to 79%. Only 9 students missed the first division by a whisker.
 
 “This is a proud moment for our school and technically this is the best performance in the last 10 years. I took over as the headmaster of the school in August 2014 and last year, though there was none in first 10, there were six students in first 20. This year, we have performed best in Kolkata. The systematic and methodical way of teaching in our school and a strict discipline has led to this success,” headmaster Parimal Bhattacharyay said.
 
 This 60-year-old school previously also had the record of performing well in Madhyamik. “In 2008 Ranita Jana stood first but that was a one off incident but for the last three four year we have been maintaining a consistency. This year our performance is worth mentioning,” said geography teacher Mohua Bose.
 
 Aritra who ranked fifth and stood first from Kolkata said, “I owe it to my parents and my teachers. I always had a dream to become a doctor and this is my first step towards it.” Son of schoolteacher Arun Kumar Mondal, Aritra is not only a good student but is a singer and a cricket player as well.
 
 Satyam Kar, whose father Goutam is a retired government employee, received just one mark less than Aritra and ranked sixth. He also bagged the second position in Kolkata. The avid reader wants to be a doctor. “I like listening to music, but I don’t get too much time to play.”
 
 Soumyajit, too, wants to be a doctor. “I like listening to music and reading story books. At present, I want to concentrate on my studies and do equally good in the high-er secondary.”
 
 Besides aspiring to become doctors, all three have another thing in common — they don’t want to change their school for the higher secondary.
 
