BHOPAL: Telegram smartphone and web app has become favourite tool of Jihadis to direct their men to carry out attacks, as it is a big challenge for the investigative agencies to crack its communication code, said a source working with NTRO (National Technical Research Organisation) and other agencies.

 The smartphone and web app is widely used by ISIS, Al-Qaeda and other Jihadi groups, including Taliban and Hezbollah, for recruiting people across the continent and directing them to carry out attacks. The central agencies are unable to crack communication of encrypted app, which provided end to end description in which the keys are negotiated by the two communicating parties and no one in between can capture and decipher the content.
 
 The suspects who carried out the IED blast in Bhopal-Ujjain train at Jabdi station of Shajapur district were said to be self-motivated and were directed by their handlers to carry out the attack through Telegram. Sources said, “The conspirators were in communication with the international terror module through Telegram. The app has become a trouble for agencies as it is impossible to decrypt it. We don’t even know whom to approach in Telegram with our requests, as they don’t have any legal or judicial cell like other providers.”
 
 The instant messenger, which is free to download, is capable to send messages, photos, videos and files of any type (doc, zip, mp3, etc.). A Telegram user can create groups for up to 5000 people or channels for broadcasting to unlimited audiences. The app has more than 100 million users. The app got popular with Jihadi groups because of its distinctive features of secret chats, which have end to end encryption. It is significant to note that Islamic State’s “Lone Mujahid” channel on Telegram posts a series of videos supporting violence.
 
 Moreover, by using the option of secret chat in Telegram one can order her/his messages, photos, videos and files to self-destruct in a fixed period of time after they have been read or opened by the recipient. The message will then disappear from the devices of both the users. “The distinctive feature of self-destruct washes away every communication from the devices, which later becomes impossible for the investigators to recover,” said a source in the leading investigation agency.
 
 Paris attack carried out in November 2015 was coordinated using Telegram. The planning of terrorist attack at   in Dhaka in July 2016 was also done on Telegram.
 
