VARANASI: The   has been ranked 14 among 75 busiest A1 category stations on  . The station ranks 30 in overall ranking with a total score of 763. Varanasi was 63rd in cleanliness last year. 

 The station records about 84,000 passengers everyday with a daily earning of approximately Rs 45 lakh, chief area manager Ravi Prakash Chaturvedi said. "We are happy to improve our ranking from 63rd to 14th this year and hope to improve it further in future. A total cleaning staff of 160 has been engaged to keep the station and circulating area clean.
 
 Railway stations are categorised A1, A, B, C, D, E and F based on the baisi of annual passenger revenue. The stations that contribute over Rs 50 crore annually are in the A1 category while those contributing between Rs 6 crore and Rs 50 crore come under A category. All suburban stations are in C category while all halts are in F category. The survey was carried out by the Quality Council of India at 407 stations, of which 75 are in the A1 category or busiest stations and 332 are in the A category.
 
 Varanasi station handles large number of passengers, with more than 250 trains daily. The station falls under the purview of Varanasi division of North Eastern Railway zone and Lucknow division of Northern Railway Zone. Varanasi, which is one of the popular pilgrimage locations in India, attracts thousands of visitors daily. 
 
 Minister of railways Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu released the audit report on station cleanliness at New Delhi on Wednesday. 
 
 The Indian Railways started third party Cleanliness Index of Stations since last year. This year, Vishakhapatnam has emerged as the winner on cleanliness index by securing first position in A1 category.
 
 The parameters adopted for conducting the survey are evaluation of process of cleanliness in parking, main entry area, main platform, waiting room, (33.33%), direct observation by Quality Council of India (QCI) assessors of cleanliness in these areas (33.33%) and passenger feedback (33.33%). 
 
 Consequent to the launch of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan on October 2, 2014 by the PM, the Indian Railways had also launched Swachh Rail Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to achieve the vision of Clean India by October 2, 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 
