Sometime in the 1840s, Pancham Das Sharma of Agra's   donned a fresh dhoti and hopped on a bullock cart to make his slow way to Bombay. The details of that long journey are now hazy but Sharma's legacy, roughly 160-odd years later, is still edible. The deep-fried pooris that the UP villager served up in a corner of 19th-century Fort still form the daily bread for the sixth generation of his descendants.

 Pancham Puriwala, the famous puri-bhaji cafe on Perin Neriman street, near the GPO, traces its origins to the humble diner that Sharma set up in the late 1840s. Now managed by brothers Sandeep, Anupam, and Akshay , the restaurant retains a lowkey ambience, with its marble tiles and perforated steel seats. There is still no air-conditioning. “ ACs would invite taxes,“ says Anupam Sharma. Worse, it might encourage customers to linger. “Ours is a khao-aur-khisko joint.“
 
 Amid an explosion of new cafes, the eatery's cheap and filling traditional fare continues to pack the tables, drawing both taxi driver and bank manager. A plate of five thick pooris (pancham means five in Hindi) and dry potato sabzi that used to cost four annas in the late 1800s today costs Rs 35. For Rs 60 to Rs 140 a thali, you can also sample modern takes such as masala pooris (infused with urad dal), green pooris (made of spinach) and the popular potato-pumpkin sabzi. “Our USP is our authentic North Indian taste,“ says Anupam, who eats at the restaurant most nights.
 
 Anupam recalls the stories told by his grandfather  , whose garlanded portrait hangs in the restaurant. When Pancham Sharma first came to the city , Perin Nariman street was known as Bazar Gate Street or simply `Bazar Gate' and had no street lights. Pointing to the office of DCP Zone I opposite the eatery, Anupam says the building “was where petty criminals like ticketless travellers and drunkards used to be locked up.“ Nearby is a peepal tree that Anupam says was planted by his great-grandfather, Mangal Singh Sharma.
 
 In fact, city historian Deepak Rao says that before 1857, there was a pond facing Pancham Puriwala called Gibbet's pond -locally known as Phansi Talao — which was a popular spot for public executions. In the Sharma household, legend has it that “large crowds would gather to witness executions and afterwards they would drop in to eat puri-bhaji,“ says Anupam.
 
 In the 1960s and '70s, famous folks like music director Khayyam, actor Rajesh Khanna and former politician George Fernandes would grab a bite here. In those years, the Sharmas also briefly ran a sweet shop called Pancham Dugdhalay nearby .
 
 Lately there have been some nostalgic visitors. An old customer who moved to Seattle brought his son to the eatery just as his father did before him. And a British couple who were regulars before Independence revisited the restaurant recently . No wonder the late columnist Busybee, aka Behram Contractor once wrote that the eatery should be put on the heritage list.
 
 Still, the restaurant is slowly adapting to changing times (with annual margins as high as 30 percent, there seems to be no rush.) In recent years, the menu has been expanded, the interiors revamped, and deliveries started in the Fort area. And now   -which ate into 15 per cent of business — might force Pancham Puriwala into a revolutionary upgrade. “We are planning to get a card swipe machine,“ says Anupam.
 
