VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Bukka Veedhi falling under 24th ward of the Greater   ( ) have many civic issues that need to be addressed immediately. 

 All residents complain of the unhygienic condition of the roads,   and drainage canals.
 
 Resident P Harathi said as a result of the unsanitary conditions, rodents have made Bukka Veedhi their home and that these creatures invade homes in the area and can cause outbreak of diseases. “Sometimes, the rodents spoil the food at home. And we are unable to kill the rodents as they are resistant to the poisons available in the market,” Harathi said.
 
 P  , a businessman and resident of Bukka Veedhi, said the rodent menace is because waste lies dumped on the road for weeks and the authorities don’t clean it. 
 
 “Our local MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar is also not doing his job. The   in our area is always filled with solid waste. It is not properly covered. As a result, we have had several incidents of small children falling into the canal,” Srinivas said.
 
 Resident S Suryanarayana said the drinking water supply lines pass through the drainage canals in the area. “Due to leakages in the drinking water supply lines, canal or drainage water seeps into the tap water. Sometimes, we get odoured water. This needs to be addressed by the GVMC on a priority basis,” Suryanarayana added. Nearly 100 families reside in the area, which is close to the Vizag Fishing Harbour road and Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta. Most of the residents in the locality are in service.
 
 A senior GVMC official said, “We are doing all our regular works without miss. But as Bukka Veedhi is an old area, there cannot be widening or improving of the existing drainage or road connectivity.” 
 
 Taking note of the problems of Bukka Veedhi, GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan visited the area last week. He found waste dumped on the road and immediately took a decision to cut the salary of the ward’s sanitation inspector. The civic chief inspected the conditions of various civic services including drainage canals and streetlights in ward number 24.
 
