 may have a million match-faces, but he doesn't give much away by way of expression during media interactions. A blank face, a flat pitch. Until you introduce the subject of his knighthood.The World No.1's eyes light up, a hint of colour, a twitch of the lips. And a smile surfaces, even if reluctantly .

 He stresses, though, that he only wants to be addressed as Andy Murray . “That would do,“ he insists.
 
 As the 29-year-old Scot, who has fought off a painful bout of shingles following his disappointing outing at the Australian Open, prepares to get back to winning ways, he spoke to TOI on the sidelines of the Dubai Duty Free   Championships on being No.1, coaching equations, knighthood and fatherhood.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No, not really. I've been at home after the Australian Open, I have been training with Jamie (Jamie Delgado, second coach) and my fitness trainer.I took a break immediately after. I think that's what I needed after Australia. Obviously , there has been some stuff I've had to work on and get better at, I've been doing some good work on the practice court since then. I'm hoping that translates into the matches.Back in this period last year, Indian Wells, Miami and the clay season, I didn't do much. It was maybe understandable because I had a tough Davis Cup match on a Sunday before heading to Indian Wells, where the conditions were completely different. Maybe a bit understandable that I didn't play so well there, but Miami there was no reason for not playing well. I want to avoid that this year.
 
 
 
 
 It's just another year on the Tour.Obviously with Roger and Rafa coming back, it's more exciting for everyone, all tennis fans enjoy watching them play. For me, it makes tennis events tougher, when they are playing and playing well. Personally, I'm not looking at it as a year. I'm looking at it as a week-to-week thing.
 
 This event is important for me here. Obviously, I was disappointed with what happened in Australia and I haven't played now for five weeks, so getting back to playing tennis -and hopefully I can play good tennis -is what I am looking at.
 
 
 
 
 A lot of players work hard. I won't say that I'm the only one who works hard or that I am the player who works the hardest. Everybody works as hard as he or she can. Definitely , getting to No.1 at my age, for me personally, it took a lot of time, a lot of energy and focus. A lot of perseverance, a lot of tough losses, a lot of time learning from people around me.
 
 It's not something that just happened, it's taken a long time... A lot of players are playing older now as well.It seems like players are getting to their peak at a slightly later age. So maybe this will become more normal.
 
 
 
 I am still very motivated. The last six months of last year showed me what I'm capable of if I focus on every event and what I can achieve if I give my best every time. It showed me. I want to build on that, I want to get back to winning ways. I want to start playing good tennis again. I played some good tennis against Tomas Berdych and Djokovic in Doha (first tournament of the year), but the rest of the time, the first few matches I played in Doha and throughout Australia, I didn't feel like I was playing really good tennis. I want to get back to playing well and if I do that, hopefully the results will come.
 
 
 
 
 If I had to stop tomorrow, I would be happy . I have given my best effort through pretty much all of my career.I have tried different coaches, spent my time training at different locales, I have tried to improve. Maybe there are things I regret doing when I was younger and I wish I could take that back, but I'm happy with what I have done in my career so far. I'm still fit and healthy , I want to do more. I am 29 years old and I'm not putting pressure on myself to do more than what I've done, just enjoy what I have done.
 
 I don't need to stay at No. 1. I mean, nothing bad happens if I become the No. 2. My life is okay , no one dies if I lose the No. 1 ranking. I want to try to stay there. At the end of last season, where I played so much tennis, I don't think that was necessarily a positive thing. If you go back to the last year, I do think if I played better at the beginning of the year, in Indian Wells and Miami, that could help you for the latter part of the season. I want to try and play good tennis in all of the events and not have any drop off, which I had last year. That was between the Aussie Open and Monte Carlo. I won two matches on the Tour, that wasn't a good two-and-a-half month period.
 
 
 
 
 Everyone was surprised. They've always been together. But it's not easy travelling on tour for so many years. I know he (Toni) hates flying. I know he doesn't enjoy the travelling. Rafa is 31 this year and he has been on the tour for the last 15-16 years. And a lot of time before that as well. It's quite understandable that he wants to do something else, there are great people working with him. I'm sure Rafa would be fine. But everyone obviously was a bit surprised by the news. They have always been together.
 
 
 
 
 I expect a coach to be honest. I think that is extremely important in tennis. It's not always easy because it's the player who employs the coach, it's the player who pays the coach. In other sports, like team events, maybe like in football, it's the club who pay the coach and the coach is then handling the players. That's a whole different dynamic that you have, but it is really important that coaches are honest with you all the time and they must keep wanting you to improve.
 
 When I got to No.1 in the world last year, it was the best six months of my career. But if I want to get better, I can't just keep doing what I have already done. I have to raise the bar, have to learn to do things differently , keep learning. Coaches are an important part of that journey . They have to be as motivated as you are.
 
 
