COIMBATORE:   general secretary   on Sunday alleged that former chief minister   was a product of DMK, even as war of words between the latter and M K   continued over the DMK working president’s demand to remove Jayalalithaa’s portraits from government offices.

 “Stalin’s demand and OPS’ reaction are all part of well scripted drama,” Vaiko, who was in the city to attend MDMK’s 25th general body meeting, said.
 
 Addressing the reporters here on Sunday, Vaiko said chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had not only claimed that AIADMK members were by his side but also proved his majority in the assembly. “Now, how can OPS and his supporters claim that the party is with them,” Vaiko wondered.
 
 DMK had staged a drama in the assembly during the floor test. DMK MLAs also disrespected the assembly speaker, Dhanapal, and also created commotion in the House. “DMK demanded for secret ballot to prove the majority. The secret ballot would have resulted in horse trading. DMK had been trying to dissolve the present government for the past three months to grab power in the state,” the MDMK general secretary said.
 
 Vaiko also made it clear that his party won’t support Edappadi Palaniswami. “We are not supporters of Palaniswami. We also distance ourselves from OPS as he is the product of DMK. Only DMK MLAs welcomed OPS while entering in the assembly for floor test,” he said.
 
 Taking up the issue of hydrocarbon project at Neduvasal in Pudukkottai, Vaiko said, “The state government should not give permission to the project. Former chief minister the late J   did not allow the project in Tamil Nadu. Palaniswami should take the same decision for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu.” 
 
 He said his party would on February 28 stage a protest against the hydrocarbon project at Neduvasal in Pudukottai. “The Centre should understand that Tamil Nadu is not a guinea pig for hydrocarbon and neutrino projects. We won’t allow the project in Neduvasal. The Centre first planned the neutrino project in the Western Ghats in Kerala, but shifted the project to Theni in Tamil Nadu. Why the central government is particular about bringing hazardous projects to Tamil Nadu? It shows that the Centre has no regards for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu,” he added.
 
 Asked about the local body election, Vaiko said his party won’t strike any alliance and would contest the poll independently.
 
 MDMK’s 25th general body meeting was held at Varadharajapuram near Singanallur. As many as 1,312 party cadres participated in the meeting, where former MP Ganeshamurthy was elected the party treasurer, while A K Mani was named party’s deputy general secretary. 
 
 
