BENGALURU: Three years after the government formed the Justice   Commission to probe allegations of   denotification done by former and present chief ministers, the panel's report is finally ready.

 According to sources in the commission, the voluminous report has now been sent for printing and binding.Confirming this, commission secretary N Srivatsa Kedilaya said the report will be submitted to the government before August 31.
 
 However, the report will not indict anyone for the alleged illegalities in denotifying Arkavathy Layout land.“While the committee has compiled facts of the illegal denotification cases, holding any person accountable is out of our purview. We will only table a factual report,“ said a person associated with the commission.
 
 The government has asked the one-man commission to identify whether denotification in the layout was done in accordance with the   guidelines or not. It had also given a direction to the committee to record facts on whether the denotification was done to “favour“ someone. “While we could and should hold people accountable in our report, unfortunately the mandate does not permit us. The commission will only submitting the facts found during our hearings and evidence collected,“ sources said.
 
 While the report will be submitted to either the chief secretary or in-charge of the urban development department, the government has at least six months to present it before the legislature and make it public. It is claimed that the report will have a particular chapter on CM  , against whom three petitions of illegal denotification had been filed with the commission by various lawyers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Arkavathy Layout denotification scam raised in assembly by BJP. Chief minister Siddaramaiah accused of denotifying large tracts of Arkavathy Layout land, in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines. Siddaramaiah promises a judicial probe into the matter
 
 
 
 Government appoints retired high court judge, Justice H S Kempanna, to head oneman commission. Calls it a fact-finding commission.
 
 
 
 
 Terms of reference given to the commission; told to look into denotification of land after final notification of Arkavathy Layout was issued on February 23, 2004 till the “remodification“ order was passed in June 2014.
 
 
 
 
 Three complaints filed against Siddaramaiah for deleting large parcels from land meant for Arkavathy Layout under the final notification, including one in favour of a tech park honcho February
 
 
 
 Commission starts hearing cases and complaints, scans documents and faces undue delays from BDA in supplying documents related to layout. Seeks two terms of extensions of six months each.
 
