GURUGRAM:  , the private school embroiled in a bitter row with parents on   for nearly two months, shut down on Thursday, without specifying when it would reopen, after protests outside and on its campus. 

 The school, which has 3,000 students, did not directly link its decision to close for an indefinite period with the protests but the announcement came after it had to call police to the campus. Anshul Pathak, vice-chairman of the  , said parents had resorted to vandalism. “Their behaviour was unruly. They broke down the school gate and also pushed the staff,” Pathak said. 
 
 Earlier this week, the school was barred from increasing fees by divisional commissioner D Suresh. The order came after it was found that the school had not submitted Form VI, a document that lists details of investment, expenditure, infrastructure and staff strength of a school, and forms the basis of a decision to hike fee. However, only recognised institutions can submit Form VI and DPSG Palam Vihar cannot do so because it’s still waiting for its government recognition to come through. 
 
 Its principal, Deepika Sharma, told TOI the school had sent files requesting recognition eight months ago but the education department was taking its time. “We sent them to Panchkula. But somehow, it is we who are being cast as villains,” she said on Thursday, after the school announced temporary  . “So, we have decided to be on the right side of the law. I don’t think we should be harmed for that. Our recognition process should have come through long back so that we could have submitted Form VI and hiked the fee accordingly. The ball is now in the government’s court.” 
 
 The Palam Vihar school changed from Chiranjeev Bharti to DPSG last year, necessitating a fresh recognition. But it also hiked fees under the new branding, which triggered protests. Parents said the new fee structure was 400% higher than the earlier one.
 
 The school management also told TOI it will challenge Suresh’s directive, barring it from increasing the fee, in court. “There is no question of rolling back the hike. We will challenge divisional commissioner’s directive in court if required,” Pathak said. “We haven’t done anything wrong. We are fully entitled to generate enough surplus so that we can invest it in our infrastructure.” 
 
 With the school refusing to blink, parents had started fresh protests at the school on Thursday morning. “We assembled outside the school at 9.30 am. We held protests for two hours. We shouted slogans only. There was no violence on our part,” said Yashesh Yadav, a parent who is leading the campaign against fee hike. “Later, mothers of some students decided to enter the school premises to ask the principal why they had suddenly closed the school without notice. Police also came in the meantime and barred the women from the school premises. Parents then went in through the parking gate and met the principal. It was through her that they learned that school was closing down indefinitely till the recognition came through,” Yadav added. 
 
 Suresh told TOI it wasn’t for the school to unilaterally take such a decision. Describing the move as arbitrary and unfortunate, Suresh said he will write to the Registrar of Firms and Societies as well as to deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh on Friday. “There are certain responsibilities and formalities to be fulfilled before taking any such move,” he said.
 
