   2 

 
 
 When the music of the first film in a franchise is a superhit, expectations are bound to go up for the sequel. And when it is a new composer, the challenge becomes even more. Does Velayilla Pattadhari 2 live up to listeners’ expectations? The album starts with the song that appeared in the teaser, Life Of Raghuvaran — Nada Da Raja, by   and Yogi B. This new sound might not be as powerful as what we heard in VIP, but it does have the necessary punch that is required for a commercial movie. Yogi B is back in the game, giving his usual best for the song, while Dhanush is at ease with his portions. The guitar works is what brings in the much-needed adrenaline rush for this hero-intro song. 
 
 This is followed by Angel Of Raghuvaran — Iraivanai Thandha Iraiviye by Sean Roldan and MM Manasi, which takes you back to the sweet-sounding Pa. Paandi album. There is an undeniable Ilaiyaraaja flavour in this song, what with intricate flute and strings in the BGM. Sean breezes through this one, while Manasi does exactly what is required for this composition. Be it the interludes, the rendition or the free-flowing flute portions that elevate the romantic mood, this song is a winner. Torture Of Raghuvaran — Ucchathula seems like a Udhungada Sangu/ What A Karuvvad for the sequel. But, this time, the reason is different — the problems that Raghu faces in his marriage. It starts like an ad-lib of 80s style songs, but quickly transforms into a mass number. It has a typical gaana rhythm and some interesting chorus portions, too. Dhanush rightly emotes with his vocals, making it a decent listen. 
 
 This is followed by the Raghuvaran Vs Vasundhara — Dooram Nillu, the video of which is doing the rounds online. Sung by Dhanush and Shakthisree Gopalan, this song is stylish, and the impressive synth portions bring out the competitive mood. But this one’s for the theatres, though. Vasundhara — The Empress Arrives is better than Life Of Raghuvaran, adding the right oomph to Vasundhara’s character. The tune is a mix of class and style — all that the character portrays in the film. Velayilla Pattadhari 2 is undeniably a good attempt by Sean, but somewhere, the punch is missing.
 
