JAIPUR: The   in the state turned into   for some of the families as four people were killed while nearly 300 were injured during the festival. 

 Youngsters driving bikes fearlessly without helmet was a common scene in the city while many were seen having booze on the road. Over 150 cases of injuries, including grave and minor, were reported in the SMS Hospital apart from four deaths. Many injured also approached the nearby private hospitals while they were hit by the rashly driven vehicles or got skidded by the bike while driving under the influence of alcohol. 
 
 According to datas available with the SMS Hospital, nearly 156 persons were admitted during Holi celebrations while four persons succumbed to their injuries they got during celebrations in separate road accidents in the state. 
 
 “Those who succumbed to the injuries, including a youth identified as Vinod, who was brought from Sawai Madhopur, while three other unidentified persons were killed during the celebrations,” said a senior health officer of the SMS Hospital. 
 
 Ambulance services remained busy throughout the day due to the number of accident cases. “The cases started coming post afternoon while the revellers were returning home,” said a health officer at the SMS Hospital. 
 
 According to sources, at least 1,000 cases were attended by the 108 emergency services during the celebrations. 
 
 Similarly, at least 100 people were admitted at the Kanwatia and other government hospitals in the city. 
 
 Meanwhile, a day after Holi, Jaipur police also celebrated the festival on Tuesday when everyone, including Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police to a lower rank constable was seen with colourful faces and in Holi fervour. Policemen were seen dancing on various Bollywood and non-film songs at the police stations and were seen offering people sweets. 
 
 “We try to make every festival happy and smooth for people. Only Holi is the festival which we celebrate together away from our families. It becomes an important thing as it is a fine stress buster,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police commissionerate. 
 
 
