GURUGRAM: After a trial that ran for nearly five years, Gurgaon’s district court will pronounce its judgment on March 10 on the violence that broke at automobile major Maruti’s Manesar plant in 2012.

 A total of 148 workers of the company are being prosecuted for the July 18, 2012 incident in which Maruti’s general manager (HR)   was burned to death during the violence at the plant. Dev was burnt beyond recognition while 100 people were injured.
 
 In its final arguments before additional and sessions judge   on Saturday, public prosecutor  , who is also deputy district attorney (Gurgaon), gave an overview of the case, including the circumstances that led to the violence and large-scale vandalism at the plant, emphasising that a senior company employee had died. “The court should not show any mercy to the accused,” said Hooda, demanding stringent punishment.
 
 Senior advocates like RS Cheema, Rebeca John and   appeared on behalf of the accused employees in the case. They had argued that there was no evidence to support the allegation against employees of unlawful assembly with a common objective to kill or set the office on fire. Pointing to loopholes in the investigation, the defence had argued that employees were falsely implicated in the case as there was no evidence to support their involvement.
 
 Of the 148 workers accused in the case, 138 are out on bail. Grover also pointed that 112 of the accused had not been identified by any of the prosecution witnesses. “The prosecution had 102 witnesses, which included many from the management of the Maruti plant. However, none of the witnesses from the management identified any of the 112 accused. Therefore, insofar as the 112 accused are concerned, there is absolutely not an iota of evidence to implicate them in the case,” said Grover.
 
 She also said none of the accused were arrested from the spot despite the presence of a large number of police personnel.
 
 “It was not proved who set the office on fire and what the cause of fire was. Postpartum report says that the manager died due to suffocation, all other employees sustained minor injuries,” said  , counsel for the workers.
 
 
