BHOPAL: “I am a saint and I have no grudges against anyone. Truth prevails. That’s what I have been saying,” this is how   reacted to her acquittal in RSS pracharak Sunil Joshi murder case on Thursday.

 Her brother-in-law  , who met her at a hospital in Bhopal on Thursday, told TOI that she was very happy with the judgment but her health has worsened. “She can’t move at all,” said Jha, adding that she has vowed not to talk to the media “till she gets out in the Malegaon blasts case”. Her bail plea is up for hearing on February 7.
 
 “One nationalist can’t kill another. It was a conspiracy hatched by four-five leaders to defame the nationalists and saffronites,” she told TOI via Jha.
 
 Home minister Rajnath Singh had publicly promised to fight for her cause when he was in Opposition. Asked about it, Thakur told Jha that she was a saint and “has no problem with anyone”. Two years ago she had a different version. “There are many who keep saying things, but I don’t really care,” she had said when asked if she was hopeful Rajnath Singh would get her “justice”. 
 
 The prosecution, smarting after the acquittal of all eight accused, on Thursday said there was little evidence left in the case when it was taken over by NIA. “We will decide whether to go for an appeal only after getting the order sheet. All I’d say is that MP Police had already filed a closure report in the case and it was too late when NIA was handed this case. Evidence was weak,” government prosecutor Girish Kumar Mungi told TOI.
 
 While acquitting Thakur and the seven others — Harshad Solanki, Vasudev Parmar, Ramcharan Patel, Anandraj Kataria, Lokesh Sharma, Rajendra Choudhary and Jitendra Sharma — on Wednesday, judge Rajiv Madhusudan Apte had said that police and NIA conducted “biased” investigations and produced weak and contradictory evidence. “Self-contradictory evidences from two separate investigation units raised serious doubts in the case,” he ruled.
 
 Joshi, who was named in the 2007 Malegaon and   blasts, was murdered in Dewas in 2007. In June 2011, NIA took over the case to probe whether Joshi’s murder was part of larger conspiracy. The agency claimed that   and Joshi had close relations and mentioned in the chargesheet that Joshi kept a personal phone diary with him in which Aseemanand’s number was listed under the ‘Emergency’ head. NIA mentioned call details of telephones used by Joshi and Aseemanand during February and March 2007. 
 
 
