MADURAI: The state government is taking measures to ensure permanent storage of water in   in the city, said state cooperatives minister   on Saturday after inspecting   carried out under the  . 

 The minister said that a check dam will be constructed on the Vaigai reservoir at a cost of 22 crore to direct water to the tank. 
 
 In 2016 - 2017, a total of village tanks have been selected for de-silting work at a cost of 86 lakh under the scheme.   tank is one among them. Located on the outskirts of the city, Madakulam is one of the oldest waterbodies in the region. Early Pandya kings had constructed a channel from the Vaigai to provide water to this tank. The channel, called 'Peria Kalvai' (Big Channel), runs from Kuruvithurai to Thenkarai, feeding Madakulam, Nilayoor and Koothiyargundu village tanks enroute. 
 
 Addressing reporters after inspection, Sellur K Raju said that Madakulam tank has been cleaned and bunds strengthened under the first phase of work. He said that a sum of 36 lakh has been set aside to repair three regulators and one sluice under the second phase. The tank will be deepened further. There is a proposal under consideration to construct a check dam across the Vaigai at Kodimangalam village at a cost of 22 crore. 
 
 Once the proposal is implemented, Madakulam tank will have water round-the-year thereby catering to the drinking water needs of SS Colony, Palanganatham, TVS Nagar, Achampathu and Ponmeni areas surrounding Madakulam tank, said the minister. This scheme will also ensure water supply to Keelamathur and Thuvariman village tanks which have not received water in the past 40 years, he added.
 
 Raju said that another proposal has been prepared to de-silt waterbodies within city limits like S Alankulam, Parasurampatti, Kannanenthal, Thirupalai, Sellur and Semandankulam near Tiruparankundram. These waterbodies will be deepened one metre below sluice level to enable storage of adequate water. The proposal for the cost of 2.83 crore has been sent for government approval. 
 
 With the city's population exceeding 17 lakh there is an urgent need to improve drinking water sources and reviving village tanks surrounding the city limits is one such measure. 
 
 There is a proposal under the consideration of chief minister to construct four check dams across the Vaigai inside city limits at a cost of 40 crore. Once the proposal is realised, it will contribute greatly to improve the ground water level in more than 50,000 bore wells within city limits, according to officials. 
 
 District revenue officer K Velusamy and other officials accompanied the minister during inspection. 
 
 
