LUCKNOW: The Centre on Friday sanctioned Rs 1,263 crore for Uttar Pradesh in a bid to include the state in the all-India development agenda.

 Setting a new trend by visiting the state to review its requirements, Union urban development and I&B minister   said that the sanctioned amount included the first instalment of funds to cities under Smart Cities scheme.
 
 “Since the Modi government is determined to make the country developed, development of the state is essential,“ Naidu said, adding that unfortunately, the previous government didn't cooperate with the Centre as was required. “I am not making allegations as people of the state have already replied through their mandate,“ Naidu said. He though added that the Yogi government was moving in right direction. “Our priority is to remove UP from the list of Bimaru states,“ Naidu said, adding that while reviewing the schemes, efforts were also made to resolve the issues. The Union minister said that the funds released on Friday included Rs 119 crore for Lucknow, Rs 107 crore each for Agra, Kanpur and Varanasi as first instalment under the Smart City scheme, while Rs 2 crore each had been sanctioned for Meerut and   to prepare a proposal to become part of the scheme.
 
 Naidu said that the amount would also fund the Amrut scheme named after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “While the first and second instalments have already been released, the third instalment of Rs 300 crore was sanctioned today,“ Naidu said. He said that Ayodhya has also been added under the Amrut scheme, taking the total to 61 cities.Similarly, under the Urban Transport scheme, Rs 446 crore in total had been given for   as part of Centre's equity.
 
 “The CM has also given assurance that RERA, which has been passed by the Parliament, will be implemented and has also given a commit ment to appoint a  ,“ Naidu said, adding that the issues highlighted by the CM pertaining to builders in Noida and Greater Noida would be sorted out after the regulatory authority is formed in UP.
 
 Naidu said that it is Prime Minister  's wish to provide houses to all by 2022, but the state is lagging in construction of houses under the  . “Despite writing 11 letters to state governments, only proposals for only 11,000 houses were received from UP, as compared to proposals for 1.9 lakh units from Andhra Pradesh and 2.3 lakh units from Tamil Nadu,“ he claimed.
 
 “It is because of this that I have asked the chief minister to send more proposals for 2017-18,“ Naidu said, adding that proposals for at least five to six lakh units are expected for this fiscal from UP . Elaborating, Naidu said that besides the interest rebate of 6.5 per cent for the poor, the Centre would give an aid of Rs 2.3 lakh for construction of houses to women. Similarly , as per the Prime Minister's announcement of 'Sabka Sapna Ghar Ho Apna', a four per cent rebate would be given to middle class families earning between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 12 lakh. Similarly, a three per cent rebate in interest would be given (up to Rs 12 lakh) for those who are earning between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 18 lakh. Hitting out at the previ ous UPA government, Naidu said: “Picchhli sarkar mein ghosna hoti thi, poshna nahin hoti thi, Modi government mein ghosna ke saath saath poshna bhi hoti hai“ (The previous government made announcements, but did not deliver, while the Modi government is delivering too).
 
 He said that the Centre has also started credit rating system to rate cities, which would help in promoting investment. Under the Amrut scheme, ESL organisation would be roped in, Naidu said, adding that the organisation would help in replacing street lights with LED and pump sets which are power friendly . Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi added that at some places the organisation has already been directed to begin the process.
 
 Referring to the 73rd and 74th amendment of the Constitution, Naidu said that the funds meant for the projects from the Centre should go directly to local bodies, which has not been the case until now. He said that the CM has given an assurance that a decision would be taken in this regard after the issue is reviewed. “A decision has also been taken to regularise all the unauthorised water connections under Amrut scheme. The amount for regularisation has to be taken in instalment,“ Naidu said.
 
