NAGPUR: The central government has linked Aadhaar — the 12-digit unique biometric identification number — with almost all services especially with   return (ITR) and students’ grants. At the same time, the government has closed down Aadhaar enrolment centres causing nightmare for taxpayers and students.

 Two counters of Aadhaar enrolment centre at the   (NMC) head office are not functioning since July 1. The centre used to enrol 50 persons a day.
 
 An NMC official told TOI that the state government directed to close down the centre citing up-gradation of the software. “We received a letter from  , deputy director general of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), Mumbai, asking the NMC to start Aadhaar enrolment centres. We have proposed to continue the centre at head office and open three new centres at zone offices of Dharampeth, Lakadganj and Ashi Nagar. A letter has been sent to UIDAI and approval is awaited. It will take at least a month to start the centres. Machine will be provided by the UIDAI. We will appoint private agencies to operate the centres,” he said.
 
 In the letter to the NMC, Chahande stated, “At present, Aadhaar services are being provided by appointed agencies and operators in the NMC area. However, there are many complaints about these agencies. Hence, we want to provide all services in institutionalized, streamlined and corruption-free environment. Thus, we feel it would be better if services are provided through the NMC’s civic facilitation centres (CFCs),” he said.
 
 Similarly, three centres — two at   and one at Tehsil office — in district administration premises have been closed down.
 
 Resident deputy collector KNK Rao said the government has appointed Mahaonline as Aadhaar enrolment agency in the state. “Mahaonline will take decision to allot new centres in coming days. Private centres operated through the district administration have been closed down in the city,” he said.
 
 One centre is being operated at GPO but the facility of new enrolment is not available. The centre is providing facility to change address, mobile number etc.
 
 However, 5-6 of total 50 private operators who were appointed by UIDAI directly in the city are claiming that new enrolment is going on at the centres. “We have been asked to move into government department premises. Also, we received a message of system up-gradation but nothing happened. New enrolment is going on as of now,” he said.
 
 The government has planned to shift private operators to government premises by August 31, 2017.
 
 An NMC official from the education department said Aadhaar registration of around 10,000 students is yet to complete due to which they are unable to transfer grants of school uniforms. “The government asked NMC to facilitate space at 50 schools for opening centres. We provided space at 50 schools in November last year. The centres were opened and operated for 10-15 days and closed down. We cannot transfer grants to students without Aadhaar number as made mandatory from this academic session,” the official said.
 
 Chartered accountant Neeraj Gangwani said e-filing of ITR has become very difficult since Aadhaar linking was made mandatory. “First, we have to link Aadhaar with PAN card on the website of Income Tax Department. Then we have to file ITR after authentication from UIDAI. ITR of many persons could not be possible due to failure of authentication for simple reasons like change in spelling, date of birth or mobile number etc. Some do not have Aadhaar cards. Now, ITR filing final date for unaudit sector is July 31, which is likely to create panic,” he said.
 
