MUMBAI: The City   Scheme that was announced on Saturday by the state transport department, which is headed by   minister Diwakar Raote, has prescribed a common colour code for all app-based cabs. The policy states the colour as daffodil yellow, but the prototype presented was closer to saffron, a colour associated with the Sena. Raote has sanctioned similar coloured autos for women in the state.

 Though   and surge pricing were issues that led to the formation of the new rules, the scheme has dodged the two points. Raote said that a four-member committee, headed by retired IAS officer B C Khatua, will be formed to decide on the fare structure. A lawyer, a CA and a former transport commissioner will be on the panel. “They will study all pricing models and suggest minimum and maximum fares that aggregators can levy. There will also be a cap on surge pricing. We will not allow cabs to charge whatever they feel like. The report should be out in a month,” he said.
 
 Now, kaali-peelis can join the scheme and operate as aggregators but they can opt for any one platform—meter-based or app-based services. It has also been made mandatory for all aggregators to have 24X7 control rooms, a display board inside the cabs to show the route and fares and panic buttons.
 
 Black-and-yellow taxis will be allowed to migrate to app-based networks on the permits that they currently have and no additional fee will be charged. 
 
 However, a clause that may not find favour with aggregators is the one that mandates drivers of app-based taxis to obtain special permits. Under the new rules, drivers will have to pay different rates for permits of small, medium and large taxis. At present, all drivers of app-based cabs procure only a commercial driving licence. 
 
 The new rules also mandate each aggregator firm to have 30% taxis whose engine capacity is above 1400 CC and the permit for these vehicles has been finalized at Rs 2.61 lakh.
 
 A source in an aggregator firm said: “Kaali-peeli drivers are feeling the heat due to aggregator cabs. But the answer is to level the playing field by reducing regulations, not introducing rules that will be bad for riders and drivers. The policy’s push for bigger and premium cars will mean economical and fuel-efficient taxis being pushed out. It will also take away the freedom and flexibility of drivers to chose their vehicles.”
 
 App-based cab drivers of aggregator cabs like Ola and Uber also opposed Rs 2.61 lakh permit fee. “This will make it unviable for driver partners to operate,” another source pointed out.
 
 But the implementation of the scheme would be dealyed due to a clause that says all taxis have to run on clean fuel. “The switch may take nearly six months,” added the source.
 
 “The rules are commuter-friendly and guarantee safety and security, especially for women. Since aggregator firms will have to take a licences, the government can keep a check on each driver. The licensing authority can suspend or cancel licences of drivers found guilty of misbehaviour or misconduct,” said an official.
 
 Citizens who spoke to this newspaper said they preferred the present aggregator cab model. “The fare is as low as Rs 8 per km. Now with government regulating fare, it could rise,” feared Anjali Joshi, a regular commuter. According to Uber sources, surge pricing was an “effective algorithm” to ensure more cabs are on roads.
 
 Sources in the transport department said the new scheme will come into effect after a detailed notification is published in a few days.
 
 
