NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has decided to withhold funds to 28   over their failure to form governing bodies (GB). 

 In a series of tweets on Monday, education minister   said the government had been asking   (DU) to form governing bodies in these colleges for the past 10 months, but no action had been taken yet. However, Devesh Sinha, dean of colleges, told TOI that the administration had finalised the list and it would be sent to the government in a week.
 
 The government asked the colleges in June not to make any faculty recruitment until the GBs are formed. It had also threatened to withhold the funds in case of non-compliance. While 12 DU colleges are fully funded by the government, 16 get 5% funding.
 
 “Have ordered the finance department to stop funding for Delhi government-funded 28 DU colleges as DU not willing to form governing bodies for last 10 months. I cannot allow unchecked corruption and irregularities to be sustained on Delhi government funds in the name of education,” Sisodia tweeted.
 
 Members of the DU executive council (EC) said that after several rounds of communications between the university and the government, a list of names has been finalised. The members of a governing body are shortlisted by the executive council and sent to the government. After the government chooses its nominees for the GBs of the colleges funded by it, the list is sent back to EC for final approval.
 
 A list that was earlier sent back by the government had certain names that failed to get EC’s nod. Some members had alleged that these names were not discussed at EC before being forwarded to the government. The governing bodies of certain colleges also didn’t have any variation in the qualifications of the selected members, they had said. 
 
 DU then decided to set up a five-member committee under dean of college Sinha to look into the names and draft a list that could be sent to the government. EC member Rajesh Jha claimed the committee had sent the list to the administration in due time, but university officials delayed the process.
 
 A government official said funds would be released as soon as EC cleared the list. “Technically, no work can take place in these colleges without governing bodies. So any hiring that has taken place has been done illegally.” He added, “The colleges had a problem with the names the government had selected from DU’s list. This is ridiculous. We cannot allow Rs 360 crore of taxpayers’ money to be used for corruption.” 
 
 Although Sinha assured working of colleges won’t be hampered, the fully funded institutes said their functioning would stop if the government funds were cut. “We pay salaries with the government funds. We also depend on the funds for daily expenditures. Without it, we will be nearing a total shutdown,” said a principal.
 
 S K Garg, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyay College, however, said the last installment of funds was released recently. “We have funds for the next two months, and the next installment is due by October. The matter will be resolved by then,” he said. 
 
