NAGPUR: Lok Sabha   from Raiganj ( ) Mohammad  , on Saturday said the government is working for ‘self’ and ‘reliance’ in a veiled reference to the corporat house. 

 He was speaking during the international conference on ‘Public policy and administration: Issues and concerns’ organized by the department of public administration and local self government, Nagpur University, at Guru Nanak Bhavan. 
 
 Former planning commission chief Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who was the main speaker at the event, didn’t attend the inaugural ceremony. Former minster Satish Chaturvedi, HoD Nirmal Singh and Ugandan diplomat John Mary Kauzya, who is chief of public administration (DESA), United Nations, were present.
 
 Salim said when a government policy is finalized without any debate or discussion, it becomes a threat for public. “Planning commission was set up to make policies, but it was scrapped by the government. Then   was set up. They decided to work for self-reliance by mobilizing our natural resources. However, this policy failed. So, then the government decided to work only for self and reliance,” he said.
 
 Salim added that to conceal this, the government put on the masks of dharma (religion), jati (caste) and   (God). “For us communist, Bhagwan means bhoomi (ground), gagan (sky), water and fire. But, the government has sold the all these to corporates, leaving only fire for the public,” he said, calling for a review of public policies.
 
 He also said that in the last 15 years, several neo-liberal policies were adopted like ‘Enlightened India’ during   government and now ‘New India’ but these policies lacked real enlightenment. “When we speak of globalization we use terms like creativity-infused, technology-driven and knowledge society. But in bureaucracy, creativity gets killed. Similarly, they talk about knowledge-ecomony but it is being confused with information,” Salim said.
 
 Kauzya spoke about the 23rd Sustainable Development Goals with reference to public administration. He called for leaving no nation behind in implementing the agenda.
 
