PATNA: The Danapur division of   (ECR) has decided to do away with all   in the division by 2019   on tracks. Of the 62 unmanned level crossings in the division, 61 will be converted into limited high subways (LHS) by 2019 to ensure   on the tracks, said Danapur DRM R K Jha.

 “The Railway Board has sanctioned this ambitious project of the division and allocated adequate funds too.   has started eliminating unmanned level crossing gates by constructing LHS at all vulnerable places in different sections of the division. About 15 unmanned level crossing gates would be eliminated in the current fiscal by constructing LHS,” Jha said, adding three unmanned crossings have already been eliminated on the Kiul-Gaya section of the division.
 
 The DRM said there are eight unmanned level crossing gates in Kiul-Gaya section, 21 in Fatuha-Islampur section, 12 in Bakhtiarpur-Rajgir section and 10 each in Rajgir-Tilaiya and Daniyawan-Biharsharif sections.
 
 Jha said each LHS will be constructed with an expenditure of Rs 1.25 crore. “Thanks to modern technology, train movement is not affected due to LHS construction work. Railways is constructing LHS with the help of two cranes of 100 tonne each so that the cranes could dig soil and make a box-typed shape of five metre width and four metre height. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Railways has also decided to run a special train between Patna and Gaya daily to clear rush of passengers during the holy month of Shrawan. The special train (03297-03298) will run every day from Patna Junction and Gaya Junction till August 8. The train will leave Patna Junction at 10am and reach Gaya at 12.30pm the same day. On its return journey, the train will depart from Gaya at 2pm and reach Patna at 4.30pm. The special train has the load combination of three AC 2 , four sleeper and six general coaches apart from two brake vans, ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar said, adding Railways has restored the run of weekly Ahmedabad-Kolkata Express (19413-19414 ) following several requests by passengers. 
 
 
