LUDHIANA: The city cops seems to be least bothered about   lying unclaimed in a Haibowal police station. The vehicles are mostly four-wheelers lying outside the police stations and the security zone for the past five years. Seized, unclaimed, stolen, and disputed vehicles have become a burden not just on the police department, but also on Haibowal residents, as they are parked in playgrounds and parks in front of the police station.
 
 Badi Haibowal resident Navtej Grewal said many vehicles are parked in playgrounds, footpaths, and parks. "The park has become a permanent parking spot for unclaimed and seized vehicles. We have told the police department several times to sell the vehicles if they remain unclaimed for a year."
 
 Another resident, Hardeep Saini, said the park was a junkyard and vehicles were gathering dust. He said the problem of parking seized vehicles was affecting children and youth who come to play in the ground. He alleged: "We cannot play properly, as our balls get stuck in these vehicles. At time, we have contributed and cleaned up this park. We have approached councillor Maharaj Singh Raji, but he claimed that they did not have any separate grant to maintain the park. He said the vehicles taken in custody were the property of the police station Malkhana, and needed to be kept at a secure place."
 
 Vicky Aeri, another Badi Haibowal resident, said: "If any vehicles are lying abandoned outside police stations, this might be due to shortage of space. The police station sites should be inspected and police officials concerned should be asked to keep the vehicles in proper, secure conditions under vigil, so that there is no possibility of theft. We do not have another park in our area. So, this should be taken care off." Varinder Grewal (30), who walks regularly in the park, said: "Trollies of sand being impounded by police officials are discarded in the street. That sand creates a lot of dust pollution in the area, forcing us to stay at home."
 
 Haibowal police station SHO   said it had become a ‘serious concern' for the police too. "We do not have space. We cannot send them to the Police Lines, as nobody will be accountable, and we also cannot just sell the vehicles, as we require the court's permission to do so. Some vehicles were used by people who committed crimes such as murder and rape, and some were involved in accidents." Police commisioner Kunwar Vijay Pratap said they would look into the matter and solve the issue as early as possible. 
 
