BHOPAL: In a shocking revelation, it has come to light that more than 85% of elected representatives of 57 village panchayats in   district of   resort to   free (ODF).

 These facts were disclosed in a survey conducted by government officials in Gopahru janpad panchayat of the district. The survey comes at a time when the Swachh Bharat Mission is one of the flagship programmes of the Union and state governments. There are a total of 57 village panchayats in the Gopahru block of the district. This block was selected by the officials for the survey because it is the smallest block of the district and has significant tribal population.
 
 The survey was conducted by the district panchayat, which is the nodal agency for implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission in the districts, with the help of village panchayat secretaries and ‘rojgar sahayaks’ who are posted in the village. It took more than two months to complete this survey. “The exercise has been conducted for our own internal assessment so that we could implement Swachh Bharat Mission in a better way,” district co-ordinator of SBM, Archana Gurjar, told TOI.
 
 “We only assessed the status of the toilets in the houses of the elected representatives because it came to our notice that though most of these sarpanchs and other panchs try and contribute in spreading awareness among the villagers, but hardly anyone takes their advice seriously because they know that their leaders themselves are not having toilets and resort to open defecation,” said Gurjar.
 
 “Making the district open defecation free is an issue of behavioural change and it needs efforts from all sections of the society. The elected representatives are leaders and the people follow them. Without their help, it is not possible to change the mindset of the people,” she said.
 
 The survey results that they received last week reveal that out of 58 sarpanchs of Gopahru block, 27 do not have toilets at their houses. Similarly, 22 vice sarpanchs also do not have the facility at their homes. Among the 902 panchs, a whopping 826 do not have toilets at their houses. “Even the members of janpad panchayat who represent a large population are no different, as 8 out of 19 members of the janpad panchayat do not have toilets at their houses,” she said. The findings have been shared with senior officials and they will chalk out a strategy accordingly, she added.
 
 It is noteworthy that this is the condition despite the fact that during the panchayat elections last year, state election commission had made it mandatory for elected representatives to have toilets at their houses. Though the commission later granted a time of one month after the election to get the toilets constructed, but it has not been done in majority of the rural areas, said sources.
 
