GOA: Santannichea dongrar pakle apoita; tamddem kapod neslear rupia dakoita; ani edea, edea, edea vhodlem khaddache...’ The all-time immortal ‘dulpod’ (dance song with fast beat and melodies from everyday Goan life) mentions   hill as being an ideal paradise for lovers. It describes the ‘pakle’ (Portuguese military men) and native young girls attired in red dress.

  This   called Santana, Santan or Santan de  , presently houses a population of 1,800 persons of which 1,150 are electorates. It is also renowned for the Touxeachem Fest (Cucumber Feast) dedicated to its patroness, St Anne, and is celebrated annually on July 26 or the following Sunday.
  “The contribution of Talaulim in the development of Goa’s culture is second to none. In particular, the unforgettable ‘dulpod’, Santannichea Dongrar, and the Touxeachem Fest has immortalized the village globally,” says Shaina de Melo, a resident and student.
  
 Talaulim is surrounded by the villages of Gaulim Moula, Old Goa, Chimbel, Panelim, Morombi O Grande, Curca and Batim. The word Talaulim is derived from its original name ‘Tallavi’ and it means low or flat land, sandwiched between a hill on one side and the rivulet on the other. This village, which is a serene abode of cultural repository, comprises 'vadde' (traditional wards) such as Corpir, Portal or Portas, Church, etc.
  The village of Santana-Talaulim was the main focus of the 2016 book ‘A peep into Santana’ by Fr John D’Silva, a priest affiliated to the archdiocese of Goa.
  
  
 
  
 
  One of the biggest parish churches of Goa, it has a height of 110 feet, is 147 feet long and 105 feet broad. It was constructed in 1695. Before the grand structure came into being, there existed a chapel in 1577, which was dedicated to Jesus’ grandmother St Anne.
  
  
 
  From 1764 to 1774, Sovay Imody Sadassiv, king of a vassal state, owing allegiance to Goa, also known as the Rei de Sundem in Portuguese, had a hideout on the hill which apart from the royal bath and changing rooms, comprised a huge well with a diameter of 12m. The water body served a dual purpose as a source of water as well as a hideout from the enemy, as it had a secret window at the water level that would lead to a tunnel opening at Santa Monica convent in Old Goa. Unfortunately, like all the structures that have crumbled, even the well lies in a ruinous state.
  
  
 
  The tiny chapel in Moula exists in the same place where once another village parish church existed.
  
  
 
  Every year in the month of February or March, devotees celebrate the four-day festivity encompassing puja, natak, orchestra show, etc, in the 15-year-old temple situated at Guzra Bhat. The other place of worship for Hindus is Shree Diteshwar Maharudra Prasanna at Moula.
  
  
 
  The only club in the village was established in 1977 and is currently featuring in the under-18 category of Goa’s 2nd division football league.
  
  
 
  
  Our village is blessed with rich natural vegetation including teak, fruits like cashew, jackfruit, mango, guava, chikoo, pineapple, tamarind, etc and vegetables like bhendde (ladyfinger) gonsalim, and cucumber. We also have supari (betel nut) farms and the ‘niro’ (cashew apple juice) extracted at Guzra Bhat is famous in Goa.
  
 
  
  
  The plague of 1783 that struck Santana reduced its population from 12,000 to 400. None of the surviving inhabitants stayed back, they fled to places near and far like Batim, St Estevam, Divar, Arpora, Margao, etc. Though the present residents of Talaulim are not original gaunkars they are proud of its rich heritage.
  
 
  For development of the village, support from the MLA is imperative. Since I was elected sarpanch, three-and-a-half years ago, Talaulim has seen an infrastructure upgrade like construction of a new road to Old Goa. The road starts from St Ana’s Church and connects to the Kadamba road. It has reduced the distance of travel from the previous route of 18km to 2km.
  Approval from the collector’s office is awaited for construction of a community house. Beautification of various parts of the village is being worked out.
  
 
  
  
 served as labour commissioner in the government of Goa. She says she is the first woman to hold this post in India
  
 was a regedor (administrator) of the village during the Portuguese era
  
 of Pilar Sisters Association
  
 of the Salesian Sisters of Don Bosco
  
 was a government servant. After retirement, the Corpir vaddo resident became noted for her machine and handmade embroidered work which is recognized by the department of handicrafts, government of Goa
  
 was an illustrious exponent of the harmonium and a bhajan singer too. Govind’s son Devidas Gauns is also an accomplished musician
  
 was a freedom fighter
  
 and 
 both violin players
  
 specialized in alternative medicine and had healed many ailments
  
 is a utility man, most sought after by residents for feasts and weddings in the village 
