BHUBANESWAR: The 2019 election is still two years away, but the BJP seems to have already started campaigning for it. Trying to draw maximum political mileage out of the Rs 5,750 crore City Gas Distribution (CGD) project, the Dharmendra Pradhan-led oil ministry plans a mega public meeting here on March 18 followed by an exhibition hockey match and a music programme.

 "Did you hear? The Modi government has taken historic initiative for the women of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar? Like water, cooking gas will now reach homes by pipes. The oil and natural gas ministry is dedicated to serve you. It is committed to invest Rs 1.25 lakh crore for development of Odisha."
 
  People in the twin cities are getting this recorded voice message just like promotional campaigns ahead of elections. The message requests people to attend in large numbers the inaugural event to be addressed by Dharmendra at Baramunda ground and a music event besides an exhibition hockey match (between   and the  ) the next day at Kalinga Stadium. Giant hoardings promoting the CGD project with photographs of Prime Minister   have dotted the capital skyline. 
 
 While TV channels are filled with an advertisement blitzkrieg, four mobile vans started moving around the twin cities for the event on Wednesday. The oil ministry has announced hosts of projects in past two years with a total investment promise of Rs 1.25 lakh crore.
 
 Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra expressed surprise with the scale of the propaganda by the BJP government for a future promise. "The BJP is making publicity using oil PSUs' money. Here is a project which may take five years or even more to complete. But the BJP is selling it as if the kitchens will start getting the PNG (piped natural gas) from tomorrow," Narasingha said. The BJP said the government is right in creating publicity because people must know benefits of the PNG and CNG (compressed natural gas) before they use them. "There is no politics in the move. However, all such pro-people initiatives of the Modi government will naturally benefit the BJP politically," said BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma.
 
 The CGD project under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga is likely to benefit 5 lakh families in Cuttack-Bhubaneswar from direct PNG through Jagdishpur - Haldia & Bokaro   in five years. This apart there would be 24 CNG fuel stations in Bhubaneswar and 20 in Cuttack for vehicles.
 
 An officer of the Gas Authority of India Limited, the PSU implementing the project, said it is promoting the event to spread awareness about how natural gas will transform the lives of the people in the cities as it will be supplied directly to domestic kitchens and used in vehicles and for industrial sector as well. "There is no politics involved in it," he said.
 
