THANE: City police have picked up a close aide of one of the accused who is said to be on the run after his name came up in the extortion case involving  , brother of Dawood Ibrahim. This person, whose identity has not been revealed, was picked up from Teli Mohalla in the jurisdiction of   police and detained for inquiry , a police officer probing the extortion syndicate told TOI.“We were searching for one of the accused and chanced upon this person who possibly knows the whereabouts of the wanted accused, a key person whose interrogation will provide further leads in the case,“ the senior officer said.

 Investigators have reportedly found the involvement of some old timers of the Dawood gang, whom the crime branch is looking for. Three teams have fanned out to track them. Police said they shall ascertain if they still work for the Dawood gang or not, which shall be confirmed after their arrest. “Their role in running the extortion racket with Kaskar in the name of Dawood Ibrahim is proved beyond doubt,“ added the officer.
 
 On closer inspection of Kaskar's cell phone, police found he would communicate on mail and have written to   Inc. seeking details of the email id they found on his smartphone, said a senior officer. “An official letter has been written to  's nodal officer, from where we are likely to get details of the data synced with the phone, to get more clues in the case,“ said the officer.
 
 “Kaskar claims the email address was created by his son, but he does not remember the password. It is likely some of the contacts as well as other data may be retrieved to get further clues,“ added the officer.
 
 Police have also seized three mobile phones and found few Dubai-based numbers in the contact lists of the phones, which are presently being probed to know the identities of the persons.
 
 Investigators also found that Iqbal Kaskar has not moved out of his house in   for fear of getting attacked. “Most of the visitors would come to meet him at his house, including the two accused,“ said a senior officer privy to the investigations.
 
