MUMBAI: What began as a big bang for   during the early phase of vote counting on Thursday ended in a whimper with the BJP surging ahead at a furious pace and winning 82 seats in the 227-strong BMC -only two seats less than the Sena's total tally of 84 seats.

 In the first four phases of vote counting, the BJP lagged behind the Sena by a margin of nearly 30 seats. This lulled   into believing that the continued rate of seat-winning may enable the Sena to form its rule in the civic body with help from new friends--the MNS, NCP and Independents, for instance.
 
 However, the BJP soon made rapid strides and covered the yawning seat difference to stand perilously close to the Sena with only a two-seat gap, thus dashing the latter's hopes to strike out on its own in the corporation.
 
 With a sizeable number of Sainiks stridently opposed to any alliance with the BJP, Uddhav Thackeray, who planned and fought the poll battle with elan, may find it difficult to translate his party's harvest of seats into a Sena rule in the BMC, said party watchers.
 
 Matoshree will have to finetune a sound strategy in the next 48 hours to keep the BJP at bay while making new allies in the civic corporation, said Sena watchers. “We know BJP will play all kinds of tricks to stop us from assuming office in the BMC. We are prepared for everything, including a legal battle,“ said a key Sena leader, indicating that BJP may try to engineer a divide in the Sena civic party.
 
 Thackeray too seemed miffed over BJP's rapid strides in the city. “The Sena helped them (BJP) to grow and prosper in Mumbai for 25 years. We will need some more time to finish them politically,“ he said while addressing a presser at Sena Bhavan on Thursday.
 
 “We were expecting a few seats more. In fact, we lost many seats by a very narrow margin,“ he said. “Considering the fact that they have power and all its trappings, their seat share is not exceptionally impressive,“ he said.
 
 “The next mayor of Mumbai will belong to the Sena and the next chief minister too will be from our party,“ he remarked and set aside questions on teaming up with BJP to assume office in BMC. “I am not in a hurry,“ he said.
 
 Uddhav's political moves and his aggressive speeches helped the Sena garner votes in the Mumbai civic election -his first after  's death in 2012. “Uddhavji displayed a good measure of political savvy by severing poll ties with BJP at the right time. Second, he led a high-decibel campaign tearing into the BJP's tall claims of development and transparent administration. Uddhavji's speeches reminded Shiv Sainiks of the magical era of Balasaheb,“ said Anil Parab, senior functionary and party strategist. “He kept it simple, yet effective,“ Parab added.
 
 Thackeray chose party candidates with care, discussing the list of nominees with grass root shakha-pramukhs and senior-level functionaries as well. “He would go through the candidates' list with a fine-tooth comb, weighing all factors, including the demographic composition of the ward, the strength of other political parties and so forth,“ Parab added.
 
 Also, Uddhav was quick to quell rebellion in the party with iron hand, although in some cases he wore velvet gloves to pacify dissidents. For instance, in a suburban ward where Sainiks were upset that the local Sena nominee was 'imported' from NCP, Thackeray personally rang up the irate party workers and cajoled them into joining the campaign, it is said.
 
 It was during the election campaign that Uddhav came into his own, said analysts. His smartest move was to consolidate his party's Marathi base. “He touched a chord among Marathis by talking about the Samyukta Maharashtra movement and its martyrs. He riled the BJP for trying to cut Maharashtra into pieces in the name of smaller states,“ said Vilas Potnis, in charge of the party's Mumbai north district.
 
