BHAGALPUR: Nursing homes, private clinics and medical service providers in the town might be in trouble for dumping   or garbage at roadside or public places as Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) and   (BMC) have decided to take legal action against the erring establishments under the Biomedical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 and of 2016 besides   Rules 2016 and under other laws to check pollution. The punishment for violating the pollution laws include Rs 1 lakh fine besides five years of imprisonment.

 The BSPCB organized a workshop here on Thursday to create awareness among people as well as officials of different departments in the backdrop of reports about the nursing homes and clinics dumping biomedical waste at public places without considering its hazardous effect on people.
 
 Sources said a joint team of BSPCB and BMC is likely to make a survey of nursing homes and medical establishments and will ask them to install incinerators for disposing medical wastes or make use of common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs) being outsourced by the BMC besides collection of garbage and handing over to the BMC’s garbage collection staff.
 
 BSPCB officials at the workshop said biomedical wastes are garbage generated during the diagnosis, treatment, hospitalization or immunization of human beings and pets besides in research activities. Referring to national statistics, BSPCB officials said the quantum of waste generated is estimated to be around 1-2kg per bed each day in a hospital and 600gm daily per bed in a general practitioner’s clinic.
 
 According to sources, there are more than 400 private clinics, nursing homes and medical establishments besides pathological test laboratories and X-Ray centres in the town area only. Only few of the establishments use CBWTFs facilities. Incinerator is installed at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH).
 
 Improper disposal can result in health hazard and injuries to common man as well as healthcare personnel and waste handlers besides risk of infection to medical, nursing and hospital staff, said the BSPCB officials, adding that poor control can lead to serious infections like HIV, Hepatitis and other communicable diseases.
 
 Urging the medical professionals and common people to cooperate in disposing biomedical wastes and household garbage properly, the BSPCB officials said people should also inform the BSPCB and BMC about dumping of biomedical wastes and other hazardous garbage at public places.
 
 The BSPCB officials who spoke at the workshop included Dr Navin Kumar, S Chandrashekhar, SN Jaiswal, Arun Kumar, Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar and others. 
 
 
