How do I single out my most dangerous stunts when nothing I've ever done is boring and ordinary, regular or mundane? Everything has to be new and daringly different. I won't punch or kick like I've seen another guy doing. When you are not from the industry, you have to prove yourself every time by doing something that will shock and silence everyone. For me, the silent treatment from the industry is amazing because it means there's been a blast!

  
  
 ' ' (2017)
 
 There are 25 big stunts in the film. We had planned to do 38 but ran out of space. We'll up the numbers in Part 3. The biggest of them, and my favourite so far, is the one where I climb three floors of a building.
 
 Normally, action heroes across the world climb up one floor and jump down. I climbed up three flights, using a regular ladder to haul myself to the first floor, then pulling it up with all my strength to place it against the wall and climb the second and then the third floor before leaping back to terra firma. It took me three months of rehearsals to pull this off and it's the scariest thing anyone can attempt. After seeing it, I'm sure the whole world is going to ask, "How did he do it?" In the earlier film, I had jumped over a moving car coming straight at me with a flying front somersault. I've done this stunt live at stage shows without cables and got plenty of claps. Four years later, you will see me slide below a moving car. Thanks to all those years of practising yoga, I did a full back bend and went under. I could see the engine... Every nut, bolt and wire... The first time I went through very slowly and just scraped through. The second time, I went faster and the third time I zipped through!
 
 'Commando' (2013)
 
 I had squeezed through the window of a car in 'Commando: A One Man Army'. It was important to squeeze through at the right time so I didn't hit my head on the bar. Given my size, it was near impossible but I made it possible through timing, flexibility and conviction.
 
 In the sequel, we've taken it a notch higher. I squeeze through the small window of a real building. We had rehearsed the stunt in Mumbai but when we reached the location, I realised that the window was too small. But I was still convinced I could do it, and I did. The mind went through the window first, and then the body.
 
 What made it all the more difficult for me is that I'm taller than most actors. I've seen   and   do it, but Jackie is fivefoot-five-inches and Tony an inch taller while I'm five-foot-eleven-and a-half inches, besides being a big muscular boy. I had to squeeze all my muscles through that small space without hitting my chin. It was all about timing! I've often been asked how I get into small spaces and have pointed out that being a non-filmi kid, I have to be able to grab every opportunity that comes my way. Give me an opening -a small window -and I'll get in.
 
 ' ' (2013)
 
 I didn't have much to do in this Tigmanshu Dhulia-directed film but there was one particular stunt that caught the eye. I was supposed to climb on to this guy's shoulder and decapitate him. Instead of choking him with my hands, I used my legs to bring him to his feet.
 
 ' ' (2011)
 
 Nishikant Kamat's action-thriller was a remake of Gautham Menon's 2003 Tamil hit, 'Kaakha Kaakha'. It was my first Hindi film and I caught the eye with my individualistic, distinctive style of fighting.
 
 The stunts I did then no longer seem so difficult in retrospect but I remember the body roll I introduced in the film when I take on these huge black guys. One of them was six-feet-six-inch tall. I got on him, rotated around his body and brought him to the floor.
 
 Since it was well appreciated, I repeated it in 'Commando', doing the body roll twice. In Part 2, I not only rolled but rotated around the guy before bringing him down. There's a natural progression even in the action sequences. I also took the 'wall back' to another level of difficulty in an attempt to make it more visually challenging in my upcoming espionage thriller. In 'Force', I had climbed a wall, done a back somersault and landed on the floor. I repeated it in 'Commando' and then in the sequel, I climbed the chest of a guy standing in front of me instead of an immobile wall, and then got the guy behind me with my leg.
 
 What made the stunt two times more difficult was that I had to be careful not to injure the guy whose chest I climbed in the ribs and not kick the one behind me in the head. I had to be careful of other people's lives while pushing the benchmark.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
