MARGAO: The South   Authority has miserably missed its goal of making the district “disaster resilient” by 2015. What’s even more ironic is that while the goal was set in 2011, six years down the line, there has been   in the preparedness levels of the first respondents in  , admit official sources. 

 Steps proposed to be taken by the authorities towards making   “disaster resilient” were outlined in the five-year annual work plans from 2010-11 to 2014-15 which were submitted to the Centre to receive funding from the 13th  . 
 
 A proposal of the authority which had mooted formation of a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) with a view to strengthening capacity building measures in disaster management of the state, has also been lying backburner over the years, sources said.
 
 The authority had, in January 2011, suggested that personnel from Indian Reserve Batallion (IRB), fire and emergency services, civil defence and home guards be identified for constituting the SDRF. A suggestion to constitute civil defence by roping in NCC and NSS volunteers was also mooted by the authority.
 
 “The idea was that two units of SDRF, one each in North and South Goa having a strength of 30 personnel, would enable the first respondents to reach the disaster site within the shortest possible time,” an official source closely associated with drafting the plan, told TOI. 
 
 The issue has come to the fore in the wake of the recent disaster at Sanvordem following the collapse of a footbridge. While it was sheer providence that the fire brigade personnel were present at the site which helped save maximum lives, the toll would have been much higher had there been any delay by the emergency services in responding to the disaster. 
 
 “We have disaster management plans on paper, but nobody ever tests it nor is the protocol followed. Else, the disaster management control room at the district headquarters ought to have triggered the disaster response mechanism in the Sanvordem disaster, which never happened. The response should have been on the basis of the taluka level disaster management plan, so that locally available resources and manpower could be mobilized immediately. Local fishermen, local divers, fishing canoes, fishing nets could have been mobilised for rescue operations had the plan been in place. Who knows, even those two lives may have been saved,” a senior official previously involved in disaster management tasks, told TOI. 
 
 The South Goa Disaster Management Authority had, in its comprehensive perspective plan on capacity building for disaster response submitted to the centre in 2011, had proposed setting up of a state-of-the-art Emergency Operating Centre (EOC) at the Matanhy Saldanha Administrative Complex in Margao.
 
 The EOC was to have provision for communication facility in terms of Last Mile Connectivity, a vehicle mounted with HF (high frequency), VHF (very high frequency) and satellite telephone for deployment in the affected site to provide immediate connectivity with the headquarters and incident command post (ICP). This proposal was a part of one of the annual work plans submitted by the state to the Centre for the years 2010-11 to 2014-15. It was proposed to earmark Rs 1 cr for training and capacity building, Rs 50 lakh for procuring of essential equipments, Rs 50 lakh for various disaster management plans and Rs 50 lakh for setting up of EOC, taking the total estimated cost to Rs 2.5 cr.
 
 Sources revealed none of the proposals have materialized so far, as they failed to find favour with the centre for “technical reasons.”
 
