While Kollywood boasts of bus-conductor-turned Superstar Rajinikanth, here comes Coimbatore’s own ‘superstar’ conductor,  . The 47-year-old  , who covers the ‘70’route from Gandhipuram to Marudhamalai is a passionate   and environmentalist, who has planted more than 3, 00,000 saplings till date. The   doesn’t hesitate to travel the length and breadth of the state, when it comes to addressing school students on eco-conservation or planting a sapling. According to Yoganathan, planting saplings and educating the future generations on the same is the only way forward. 

 It all began in school when a young Yoganathan took on the timber mafia in Kotagiri. “I had just moved from Mayiladuthurai (Nagapattinam district) and was living in my sister’s house. I loved the hills and admired their beauty. But, one day I saw trees being smuggled out from the town. I protested against them and even erected flex boards & banners against the wood smugglers. Jayachandran of the Tamil Nadu Green Movement was a major pillar of support then and I soon started planting saplings along with their members. After completing 12th standard, I began working as a sales representative at a tea estate in Kodanad. Once, I got confirmed for the bus conductor job, I moved to Coimbatore. But, I continued my mission of planting saplings."
 
 So, when does he find time to do eco-conservation work? “I take leaves quite often, but only for environment-related activities. You won’t believe I have been transferred so many times that I have lost the count. I take my weekly offs on Monday, which helps me address students at educational institutions. Due to frequent absence at work, I haven’t got any great increments. I still live in a rented house and have no property in my name. I use my bonus and a part of my salary to buy saplings. My wife isn’t very happy about it, but I can’t let go off my mission. I don’t make any money out of my passion, but, have received many awards for the same.”
 
 Yoganathan has many awards in his kitty, including the Eco Warrior Award from the Government of India and state award. Interestingly, Yoganathan hasn’t planted any trees in his house. “I live in a rented house and I cannot plant saplings unless the house owner allows me to. I cannot even hang my awards on the wall as I am not allowed to hammer nails on the wall. I keep shifting houses. It’s only because of my family’s support that I have been able to carry out the work. I haven’t received any support from the government so far.” Yoganathan lives with his wife and two daughters in New Sidhapudur.
 
 Yoganathan follows a unique strategy while planting a sapling. “I name every sapling after a person and ask them to treat it as their sibling. For instance, if a Senthil is planting a pungai tree, I name the plant Senthil pungai tree. I also ask children to bring two bottles of water to school- one for the child and one for the sapling. I also teach them various techniques of tree planting that will help them in the long run. I have conducted plantation drives across TamilNadu and Karnataka. I even planted many saplings in Chennai after the Vardah cyclone uprooted many trees in the city. I always opt for indigenous plants as they adapt to the environment easily, require less maintenance and last longer.”
 
 The eco-warrior adds that the mindsets of the people have to change to create a better environment. “One of the reasons I moved to Coimbatore was for its clement weather. But, now the average temperature in Coimbatore is only rising every year. Everyone wants to buy an air-conditioner, but no one wants to plant a tree, which in fact, will be beneficial in the long run. The children of this generation are so unattached to nature that some of them have not even touched soil. Pollution is on an all-time high and we might soon start buying air masks. I have even advised children to opt for smoke-free Deepavali. But, what are we doing to address the issue?”
 
 Yoganathan is a sharp critic of NGOs as well. “NGOs have targets- to plant a certain number of saplings within a certain time to receive funds. I doubt if they even follow up on the plants. There have been instances where I have found saplings still inside their polyethene bags after tree plantation drives conducted by NGOs. All one needs to do is, tend the plants for a year, after which they grow on their own. We are littering and destroying our water sources, building concrete structures on elephant corridors and destroying forests. Human-animal conflict is on all-time high and it’s a shame that Coimbatore is continuing to witness elephant deaths in the region. Is anyone questioning the offenders?”
 
