BENGALURU: Lakhs of students who appeared for the II PU examination on Thursday heaved a sigh of relief as the history and biology question papers turned out to be rather simple. The   Secure Examination System introduced this year ensured there were no glitches. Two question paper leaks in 2016 prompted the department to take high-tech measures.

 Most of the students breezed through the papers. They also welcomed with open arms the new system of random seating at centres outside their own colleges.
 
 Walking out of the NMKRV College exam centre with a wide smile, Sheetal Siddesh, a student of  , said, “The biology paper was very easy as most questions were from previous years’ papers, making it predictable.”   student Aruna Poojari, who wrote the history exam at Government PU College, Malleswaram said, “Most questions came from the handbook provided by the PU board so it was easy for me to crack the paper.” 
 
 Subash BN, a student of Sri Chaitanya PU College, said, “One-mark questions in the biology paper were a bit difficult but the rest of it was pretty simple.”
 
 Travelling from Kanakapura to Jayanagar to write her board exams, Sushma Shree, a student of Siddaganga PU College in Doddakallasandra, said, “I like the idea of random seating because it gives me a lot of time to prepare en route to the centre. It helps with last-minute revisions.”
 
 Kalpaka Kalsapura, a student of Sri Chaitanya PU College, said, “The system is important to eradicate malpractices. There is no doubt about its effectiveness.” Her college had provided transportation to all students writing the exams.
 
 Teachers visited various centres to wish students good luck. A faculty member from a south Bengaluru college said, “If students see a familiar face at a new campus, it will boost their confidence. We have prepared them mentally and helped them locate the centre in advance. The board had made all the arrangements well in time.” 
 
 However, the practice was not supported by officials at the PU department who had directed teachers not to visit their students’ centres during the course of the exam. “We were not aware that teachers had visited students. This is not allowed and must not be repeated,” said C Shikha, director, department of pre-university education.
 
 
 
 
 This year, the department has allowed transgender students to cite their gender status while enrolling for the exam. While the department has still not collated information on their demographics, Shikha said: “There are about nine such students who are taking the exam from across the state.”
 
 Hailing the move, Akkai Padmashali, co-founder of NGOs Ondede and Swatantra said, “The community heartily welcomes the decision. Karnataka is becoming quite sensitive to transgender issues. We would like to thank the education department and the government for its support.”
 
 “We demand safe zones and anti-ragging committees across institutions, and provision of free education loans so that more students from the community can pursue education,” Akkai added. 
 
 
 
 
 A Davanagere student took his own answer sheets and ran away from the centre, said an official. The student was debarred from entering the exam hall and writing any paper for the next three years. Another student from Davanagere and three from Kalaburagi were suspended from writing the exams on account of malpractices.
 
 
 
 
 Problems unfolded at Seshadripuram PU College when over 150 students with no hall tickets barged into the principal’s chamber. The students were denied their hall tickets because of attendance shortage (below 75%). “The Karnataka Education Act clearly says any student with shortage of attendance will not be given a hall ticket,” said Shikha.
 
 
 
 
 For smooth conduct of the exams this year, the PU department had mandated that photocopy shops within 200 metres of exam centres would have to remain shut. However, shops outside PES College in Hanumanthnagar and MPL Sastry PU College in Rajajinagar remained ppen even after the exam started. “As soon as we saw media reports on these shops, our officials immediately rushed to the spots and shut them down,” Shikha said.
 
 
 
 
 There were many cases of students forgetting to carry their ID cards. “Students who didn’t have ID cards were allowed to take the exam only after teachers recognized and confirmed their identities. However, the process will not be repeated again. So I request all the students to carry their ID cards for all the exams,” said Shikha.
 
