MYSURU: Although he affirmed that the BJP would fight the   in Karnataka under the leadership of the party's state president  ,   and senior BJP leader  , however, said that the former chief minister should take everybody along. 

  "Party activities must not get affected on account of any individual leader's behavior," Naidu said, while addressing party workers at the President Hotel in Mysuru. Dubbing the Congress a "sinking ship", Naidu said, "A senior leader like SM Krishna joined the BJP. Everybody is leaving the Congress." 
 
  Exuding confidence of the BJP sweeping the state in the 2018 assembly polls, Naidu added, "BJP will wrest power from the Congress, and form the government under the leadership of Yeddyurappa. BJP is not just the biggest party in India, we are the largest party in the world, with a membership of 11 crore. BJP has the highest number of SC, ST, OBC and women MPs. Across the country, BJP has 1,502 MLAs and 366 MPs, both in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha." 
 
  Naidu further said that everyone in the country had accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi as their leader. Highlighting the democratic setup within the BJP, Naidu said, "We are winning elections at all levels - from municipal polls to Parliament elections. An ordinary party worker can become the chief minister, BJP president." 
 
  While the UPA regime was marred by various scams such as the Commonwealth Games scam, 2G scam and Coalgate, the NDA government's greatest achievement is that there have been no allegations or scams in the last three years, Naidu said. 
 
  "All opposition leaders, including Arvind Kejriwal are getting frustrated, and hence finding faults with the electronic voter machines. Kejriwal won the assembly elections in Delhi when the same EVMs were used, and Congress won the recently held bypolls in Karnataka. They are losing elections because of their attitude. Instead of introspecting, they are hurling baseless allegations," he added. 
 
  Refuting charges made by the opposition against demonetisation, Naidu said that the move had brought more people under the tax net. 
 
  "Following demonetisation, opposition parties said that along with the notes, even the votes will get exchanged. But that did not happen. We registered a historic win in Uttar Pradesh, bagging 325 seats, while Congress managed to win just seven seats," he said. 
 
  Naidu was in Mysuru to attend the 75th birthday celebrations of Sri Ganapathy Sachidananda Swamiji . 
 
