PUNE: Guardian minister Girish Bapat has advised the National Highway Authority of India ( ) and the district administration to speed up all the pending and delayed works for widening the highways passing through Pune district.
Thousands of vehicles using these crucial highway stretches every day and have been facing many hurdles because of unfinished works and bottlenecks.
 
 Bapat on Saturday held a first meeting of the newly constituted district level coordination committee of national highways to review the status of ongoing and proposed projects.
 
 The meeting was attended by top officials of NHAI, revenue department and officials of public works department.The minister after assessing the existing status of the road projects told authorities to prepare phase-wise plans for each project and ensure completion of pending works at the earliest.
 
 Bapat also instructed offi cials to initiate strict action against those contractors who have failed to maintain the expected pace at the works.
 
 If required, the district administration and the authorities can consider termination of contracts of errant contractors, Bapat said during the meeting.
 
 “The minister's instructions have come at a crucial time as regular users have been complaining of haphazard works leading to traffic jams,“ sources in the administration said after the meeting.
 
 Expansion works of PuneSatara-Kolhapur and PuneNashik highways have been pending for long which are leading to traffic jams while the road widening proposals from   to Tamhini ghat road and Talegaon to Shikrapur stretch were still to gain momentum, they said.
 
 Officials in the administration pointed that road works have been stuck because of non-availability of land and delays by the contractors. The minister during the meeting instructed the district collector to provide adequate police security to push ahead the works especially on PuneSatara and Pune-Nashik stretches, officials said.
 
 Regular travellers on   highway are miffed at the slow pace of work.  , a regular traveller said flyovers between   and Bhor are still pending and commuters are forced to pay toll when the road condition is pathetic and traffic is slow moving.
 
