VISAKHAPATNAM: The   is a major Shaktha festival conducted in north coastal AP. It was observed on the eve of Ugadi during the advent of the new Moon.

 The festival is also celebrated as   throughout the country to seek the blessings of Goddess Kali. Nookalamma is one of the many forms of the Goddess. As per the Shaktha school, Nookalamma ( meaning the Mother of Seed), gave birth to the Triumverate — Brahma, Vishnu and Maheswara.
 
 The local Shaktha myths say Nookalamma is the creator of the Triumverate and also the custodian of the life and death cycle. She has to be worshipped and revered only in villages as a  .
 
 M Pothuraju, a priest at the  , said, “Pothuraju is considered the brother of Nookalamma. However, he needs to punish himself to please the Mother Goddess who gave birth to the Triumverate and yet cannot claim them as her sons.” Regarding the festival, the locals of   said she has been their village goddess for over a thousand years and legends say the temple has been in existence since the Eastern Chalukyan period.
 
 History buff BS Mahesh said, “The festival can be traced back to its origins when the Tantric cult of Buddhism was influential in the particular region. This is one of the reasons why Buddhist monuments were referred to as Bonku Dibbalu in this part of the country. The whole myth associated with Nookalamma also relates the predominance of Shaivism.”
 
 Mahesh further added that the festival also predates the Buddhist era and has its roots in the Shaktha School.
 
 R Veerappa Raju, one of the temple board members, explained, “ The sacrifice offered to the Mother Goddess also has a significant bearing. The sacrifice is non-vegetarian and this was allowed by the Triumverate. More importantly, the offering is made during the Chaitra Masa.” He further added, “ As per tradition, non-vegetarian food is supposed to be avoided during Chaitra and hence any such item if offered as sacrifice is accepted by the Mother Goddess.”
 
 Mahesh pointed out that the Neem tree plays a significant role in the festival. “ The Neem tree is associated with curing of diseases and rejuvenation of life. During most of the rituals involved in the worship of Nookalamma, Neem plays an important and inseparable role.”
 
