JAIPUR:   has summoned   over his failure to constitute the   in the city despite   on March 3.

 The single bench of justice MN Bhandari’s order followed on a petition by Bharat Vikas Samiti.
 
 Vimal Chaudhary, counsel for Sanjay Vyapar Mandal Samiti, which later joined as a party to the petition said, as per the Rajasthan Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act 2014, the local administration had to constitute a street vending committee under the chairmanship of district collector and earmark areas for vending. This would help the street vendors as wells as other shop owners. At present mandis are being held at various places on different days encroaching on streets. This is also harming the local business.
 
 Chaudhary said, Sanjay Bazar was to be developed on the model of Connaught Place in Delhi and shops in the area were sold at exorbitant prices but the project has not taken off. Compounding the problem of the shop owners is the weekly markets held there. 
 
 The high court has given the district administration a last opportunity on January 31 this year but JMC not even bothered to reply. 
 
 
 
 The Rajasthan High Court has asked Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) and commissioner of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to be present in the court on Thursday to explain the status of 382 bigha of land adjoining the Hingonia Goshala.
 
 The single bench of Justice MC Sharma gave the order during the hearing on Wednesday. JDC Vaibhav Galria and CEO, JMC, Hemant Gere and commissioner of local bodies Pawan Arora were among the officials present in the court on Wednesday and the court pulled up them over the constructions carried out in the Goshala in contravention of the court order.
 
 After the death of hundreds of cows in last monsoon season, the government has handed over the Goshla to the Akshay Patra from JMC following court intervention.
 
 
 
 
 The Rajasthan High Court has issued notice to principal secretary of medical education, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) and Medical Council of India (MCI) over reservation given by RUHS in admission to in-service candidates for PG courses.
 
 The petitioner Vijay Kachava and others argued that as per the MCI notification weightage is given to the candidates up to a maximum of 30 marks while RUHS grants reservation to the in-service candidates. The petitioners argued that in higher medical education only the Centre could frame rules and RUHS action is illegal.
 
 
