LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has announced a budget session of the assembly from July 11 to 28, which effectively translates into 12 working days. 

 During the 17 days of the session, there would be four Saturdays and Sundays, which would reduce the working days to 13 and then July 17 would be declared a holiday for voting for the Presidential election. This would minimise the working days of the   to just 12 days.
 
 The last budget of the Akhilesh Yadav government was of around Rs 3.47 lakh crore. When the   government tables its first budget for the financial year of 2017-18, it would be increased by at least Rs 3.5 lakh crore. So, the expenditure of Rs 3.5 lakh crore would be finalised in just 12 working days and that too if the Opposition allows the House to function smoothly. If there are disruptions and adjournments, the working time would be curtailed further.
 
 In the previous assembly session in June, Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit had saved the House from any adjournments during the seven days and even the Opposition had welcomed his skills in running the House peacefully. This time, his abilities would be under the test again.
 
 "Certainly 12 days of the session of the Assembly for the important budget session would be contradictory to the claims of chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, who had promised longer sessions in his regime," said former minister  .
 
 Though this is not the first assembly session for the new BJP government as earlier it had called the special session for the passage of the GST Bill in June, but the forthcoming session is for tabling of the first budget of the Yogi government.
 
 "Just 12 days for the session means that the budget of many departments would be passed without any debate or discussions," says a political observer. 
 
 Unlike in the past, this time the budget would be tabled by finance minister   and not the CM, who has handed over the finance portfolio to Agarwal. 
 
 However, in order to compensate, the Speaker has already announced that if required the House can opt for late night sittings. 
 
