MADURAI:   apprehended 10   and two mechanized trawlers in two different incidents on Saturday evening. A fishing trawler suffered severe damage after colliding with a Lankan navy vessel on Saturday morning. One crew member was injured in the incident and he is being treated at the Ramanathapuram government hospital. 

 According to the Sri Lankan navy website, six Indian fishermen and their fishing trawlers were held 5.4 nautical miles North off Delft Island. The Lankan navy seized two unauthorized fishing nets and loads of fish from them. They were taken to the Sri Lankan naval station, Elara in Karainagar. The detained fishermen have been handed over to Jaffna fisheries for onward action. 
 
 In another incident, 4 Indian fishermen and a fishing trawler were apprehended 3 nautical miles North off Talaimannar. They were taken to Sri Lankan naval station, Thammanna in Talaimannar and were later handed over to the directorate of fisheries at Mannar for onward action. 
 
 Activist for fishermen, U Arulanandam from Pamban said that the six fishermen and their fishing trawler TN06/MM/27 belonged to N Sakthivel from Jegathapattinam in Pudukottai district while four fishermen and their trawler TN10/MM/131 are from Rameswaram. The fishermen from Pudukottai were produced before Kytes court and were remanded in judicial custody till January 19 and lodged in Jaffna prison. The   were produced before Mannar court and were remanded in judicial custody till January 20th. They have been lodged in Vavuniya prison, he said. 
 
 As of now, 20 fishermen are in Sri Lankan custody. This includes 10 fishermen from Pudukottai held on January 4th. 
 
 There was much action at sea on Saturday after a fishing trawler from Mandapam that had sailed from   on Saturday morning suffered severe damage in the hull when it rammed a  . Crippled, the fishing trawler managed to return to shore by Saturday evening to conduct repair works. Boat owner, A Ditto Raj, 27, suffered severe injuries in this accident and was shifted to Ramanathapuram government hospital after he was treated at the Rameswaram government hospital.
 
