UJJAIN: Solving the mystery behind the   of a man in Garha village of Ujjain district, police have stumbled onto gang members, who committed robberies in various states and killed its leader following dispute over distribution of the booty.

 Bhairavgarh police arrested six people for murder of Dheeraj, whose mutilated body was found on September 11. It was during investigation the police learnt that the deceased was kingpin of a gang and was wanted for several crimes in cities like Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai, Ujjain, SP   told reporters.
 
 The accused had changed his name to Akram while staying in Mumbai and procured identity documents in Mumbai. Since he was identified as Akram when he committed crimes with his gang in Mumbai, he was never traced to Ujjain, police said.
 
 He was caught by Delhi police with his Mumbai-based gang members and was sent to jail for 10 years. After he was released from jail, he returned Ujjain, where his father and brother were staying.
 
 Investigation revealed that Dheeraj had married one Tarannum of Hyderabad, while posing as a taxi driver. He stayed with her in Mumbai and has a 10-year-old son from her. Suspicious of his activities, Tarannum traced Dheeraj’s family and revealed his activities.
 
 Dheeraj and his brother Ashok fought over the issue, following which the deceased started staying at Nimanwasa. Dheeraj later formed his gang in Ujjain and recruited Sagar alias   of Nimanwasa, Ravi Chouhan of Padyakhedi village, Anand Rathore of Panwasa, Ravi Mental of Maksi Road, Ajay Kaushal of Aadchha and Dinesh Meena of Chimanganj.
 
 Police said that Dheeraj led the gang on a SUV to various cities, committing robberies. Major portion of the loot was kept by Dheeraj, while others got small shares. This had led to a dissent in the gang.
 
 On September 11, Dheeraj was taking the gang members to Delhi for another round of robberies when they picked up a fight, while drinking liquor. When the gang members boarded the SUV, Dheeraj was slumping on the cleaner seat. Taking advantage of the situation, the gang members stabbed him to death and threw his body on the roadside.
 
 Acting on a tip off, the police caught the six gang members while they were attempting to flee the city. Weapons used in the crime were also recovered from their possession.
 
