One of Kollywood's well-known filmi families, known for being deeply rooted in everything that defines Tamil culture, is  's family. And just like him, his sons   and his brother   Amaren have made a multifaceted mark in the industry as director, actor, music composer... 
Which is why we couldn't think of two people more apt for our   special shoot. Quintessentially Tamizh, they not only blend elements of our culture into their films, but they follow the same in real life, too. Every Pongal, the brothers ensure that they are in town to celebrate. And from recollecting their fond memories of celebrating the festival in all its glory when they were kids, to ringing in the festivities, albeit city-style ' the duo gets chatty about all things Pongal'
 
 
 
 
  The fondest Pongal memories I have are of when we were kids. We would wake up to see our mother preparing Pongal and other special dishes. When the Pongal boils and spills over, we used to beat the drums and shout 'Pongalo Pongal'. Though it is celebrated with a lot of fervour in our hometown, Pannaipuram, we have not been there for Pongal much. I was born and brought up here. So, mostly we have been here for Pongal. Appa's friends and relatives used to come home. We even used to get Pongal greeting cards, a concept that no longer exists. I still remember the time when my mother used to wake us up for Bhogi. We used to be sad when our toys also went in that list of things that were burnt. But now, not many people celebrate Bhogi, being environmental-conscious and all. When I was young, we even had a cow at our home. Later, it was only about spotting painted cows during Maattu Pongal. But the memories didn't last long as I moved to London for seven or eight years. Once I got back, when I was in my early 20s, it was all about throwing the youth swag and watching new releases with my family and friends.
 
 Oh yes, I loved beating the drum whenever the Pongal spilled over the pot. We'd get those drums in the market during Pongal, somewhere in Mylapore. We even used to tap our plates with a spoon to make some noise. Also, at that time, periappa (Ilaiyaraaja) used to do the music for all the movies. So, we used to watch all films a day before the release, at the preview theatre. There used to be a theatre called Mena, which was used for preview shows. Yuvan (Shankar Raja) and I were kids back then, and we'd watch the films with all the top heroes. It was such fun!
 
  The whole family used to get together during festivals. Karthik Raja used to shoot us using a video camera. This means we can even brag that we made short films way back in the 80s. 
 
 And for most of the films, anna was the hero! We have shot so many films ' I guess Karthik still has those video tapes.
 
 
 
 
  There were times when we cooked Pongal outside our house, in the backyard ' began the process before sunrise. Now there's not much space to do it outside. So, we keep it on our gas stove, inside our kitchen. My children enjoy Pongal ' my daughter Shivani, who is 14, wants to celebrate Pongal in a village. I don't remember making such demands from my parents' but it's nice how they want to get the feel of the festivity in a village. She's keen on seeing how the farmers and villagers celebrate Pongal. We just went to Japan for our Christmas holiday. Maybe, next year, I would take them to our village for Pongal.
 
 It will be the usual routine with my parents ' make Pongal and watch the latest releases!
 
 
 
 
  The Central Government announced restricted holiday for Pongal quite a while ago. The debate has resurfaced again. Whatever said and done, this is a regional festival, which is why they didn't want to give a compulsory holiday. My daughter was a bit taken aback wondering if she would get days off or not. But now, the issue is sorted. Tamilians will take off to celebrate Pongal anyway. 
 
 
 
 
  I don't understand the need for the debate now. It has been happening for so many years, why stop it now? Jallikattu is part of Tamil culture and tradition, why make a big fuss to ban it? While the SC has put a ban, I know for a fact there will be people in the village, who might just conduct the event.
 Venkat: I have heard of people breeding bulls for the event. I have read about the Spanish bull festival, where they actually end up poking the bulls with blood oozing out. But here, it is not like that. Only in cinema it is exaggerated ' komba murukki, maatai attaki and all that!
 
  Idhu oru veera vilyattu' there will be a chain on the bull, and the person has to go and take it. I hope there is a solution to this issue. 
 
