CHENNAI: It is tough to be a student these days — more so if courses you are eyeing or examinations you had written have come under court scanner. And the predicament escalates further if petitions related to a single case are heard by multiple benches. 

 At the height of the NEET-PG litigation last month, three different benches of Madras high court were hearing petitions on different problems arising out of the same examination. While one bench was handling the case related to the conduct of PG medical admissions by two deemed universities without the state government’s assistance, another was hearing about the surrender of PG medical seats by unaided institutions. The third bench was hearing a case dealing with the award of incentive marks for government doctors aspiring for PG medical courses.
 
 At present, again, at least three different benches of the high court’s principal seat in Chennai as well as its Madurai bench are hearing petitions that allege an unfair conduct of   examination for admission into MBBS/BDS courses. While two benches issued only notices, one judge stayed all proceedings related to NEET, sending the evaluation and results declaration schedules for a toss.
 
 If a single or special bench is entrusted with specific genres of cases or at least particular set of cases arising out of NEET-like development, there would be wholesome and uniform approach to issues, feel jurists.
 
 "The chief justice should have anticipated different kind of attacks on NEET and posted all related cases only before a designated bench. For instance former Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, who is now a judge of the Supreme Court, used to post all Bar Council-related matters only before specific benches," pointed out Justice K Chandru, retired judge of Madras high court.
 
 "The season of cases relating to academic issues begins in April every year, and it would be advisable for the high court administration to establish either a special bench for education-related cases, or at least club cases of similar nature as one bunch," said senior advocate S Prabakaran.
 
 The anxiety caused by different approach of different benches/judges to issues before them is not totally unjustified. The NEET-PG batch of cases which triggered massive and prolonged protests by government doctors has resulted in more than 80% of available post-graduate medical seats going to in-service candidates. Wednesday’s single judge order staying all further proceedings in NEET-2017 for MBBS/BDS admissions too will have a cascading effect, as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or Medical Council of India (MCI) could not either release answer keys or go ahead with evaluation.
 
 "It will ultimately have an impact on the date of results and further delay admission to graduation courses. Many parents are awaiting NEET-2017 results to finalise admissions in other courses," said  , a parent.
 
 The impact of the Delhi high court order mandating that the CBSE should continue its norms on awarding ‘moderation’ marks to students this year as well, and that it should not change the rule after the game had begun, is sure to delay the CBSE results. "Already CBSE has been keeping us in suspense with regard to the date of results. This will add to the agony, irrespective of whether it would be beneficial or detriment to students. By the time the delayed results are out, all options in top arts, science and business courses will be over," said Rohini Mozhi, a parent. Professional course admissions are in sync with CBSE schedule, but it is not so in the case of other courses, she said.
 
 Unless special benches are created to handle seasonal cases holistic understanding and approach to disputes would not be possible, said M  , national chairman of All India Association of Jurists (AIAJ). "Educational institutions too prefer to have cases pending before different benches, as their fortunes would not depend on the opinion of one bench. Confusion created by different, if not conflicting, views would offer them just enough time to squeeze through a couple of admissions and then argue fait accompli," Selvaraj said.
 
 This is neither the first nor last time courts will be grappling with eleventh hour education-related cases, and passing orders piece-meal. With the high court scheduled to reopen in a week’s time, jurists feel a couple of education benches should be created to handle the rush of education cases at least for the sake of continuity, if not for anything else.
 
