NEW DELHI: Calcutta high court judge C S Karnan, who was 
  by the  , has defied the order by refusing to appear before the apex court on Monday.

 At its previous hearing, the Supreme Court had directed Karnan to appear before the court in person in connection with suo motu contempt proceedings. But on Monday, neither he nor his lawyer presented themselves before it.
 
 Contempt proceedings were initiated by the CJI J S Khehar-led bench against 
  after he continuously levelled allegations against the Madras high court chief justice and other judges.
 
 After Karnan failed to show up for the proceedings, Madras high court counsel K K Venugopal underscored the severity of the charges against Justice Karnan. He said the Calcutta high court judge had levelled malicious rape charges against a Madras high court judge.
 
 Venugopal then told the Supreme Court that Madras high court judges need protection from Justice Karnan's verbal abuse and wild charges.
 
 The seven-judge bench conferred and decided to grant Justice Karnan more time to show cause why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him. 
 
 "We are not aware of the reasons for his non-appearance. We, therefore, refrain from proceeding with the matter," it said. The apex court has given Karnan until March 10 to respond to the  .
 
 At Monday's hearing, the bench also took on record the recent controversial letter written by Justice 
  to the Registrar General of the Supreme Court on February 10.
 
 Justice 
  has purportedly said in the letter that he has been victimised for being a 'Dalit' and this matter be referred to Parliament.
 
 Last week, the Supreme Court initiated contempt of court proceedings against sitting Calcutta high court judge C S Karnan for allegedly writing contemptuous letters to the   chief justice and other judges. This is the first time that a constitutional court has initiated contempt of court proceedings against a judge of the Supreme Court or high court.
 
 Karnan reacted sharply to the apex court's notice and accused it of harbouring a caste bias against him. 
 
