BHOPAL: At an age when Veeru (name changed), 16, a Class 10 student should be in   on studies, he is being forced to tie the nuptial knot.

 Under pressure from his parents and would be in-laws, the boy from  , about 141 kms from state capital has approached Bhopal-based NGO   Child Rights Observatory’s for help.
 
 The marriage has been scheduled for May, 1. Now, state government officials are assuring the   would not be allowed.
 
 He is not alone. There are many like him, who have been forced into marriage in a menace of child marriage.
 
 Veeru belongs to a village called Chattu Kheda in Rampuria block in Rajgarh while the girl to whom he is getting married is a minor living in Badagaon near Peplikala village.
 
 In his complaint, Veeru has said that he is forced to marry a minor “by would be in-laws and parents.”
 
 “He reported to one of our field workers that he is being forcefully married,” said Nilesh Dubey advocacy officer of the NGO.
 
 He said, the matter was immediately reported to officials.
 
 “We will will send our team for inquiry and won’t let the marriage happen,” said district women empowerment officer (DWE) Rajgarh Shyam Babu.
 
 After receiving inputs, the district women and child development with the help of district administration on April 21 stopped a mass marriage ceremony of 36 children, who were forced into child marriage, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, to a survey conducted by Child Rights Observatory on married women (18-35 age group) in 23 districts across the state this year, it has been found that out of 720 married women, 13% were married before they attained the legal age of marriage.
 
 “Out of this 13%, urban woman accounted for 9%,” said Nirmala Buch president of the NGO.
 
 She said caste wise analysis reveals that most of the child marriages took place in schedule caste community followed by OBC community.
 
 It was also found that child marriage rate was comparatively higher among illiterate or comparatively less educated women compared to educated women.
 
 Michael Juma, chief UNICEF Madhya Pradesh said, “Child marriage is a violation of child rights and more investments are required to stem the vice. State needs to put in more efforts in this area, and work out to have a year-long action plan to combat the same. The plan needs to include engagement with community, parents and adolescents themselves.   with the state in this endeavour.”
 
