MANGALURU: Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS) will soon go mass in nature. With four to five banks on board, this system thus far, and more in the offing to join it, the process of rolling out this on a larger scale will be a reality soon, noted Ravi Shankar Prasad, union minister for electronics and  . AePS will be linked to banks as part of the mass roll out making it easier for merchants to carry out such transactions on a larger scale, he noted.

 Inaugurating the  , an awareness camp for promoting and publicizing various methods of digital payments here on Wednesday, Ravi Shankar said with 35 crore smart phones in operation in India, AePS will ensure that transactions are truly cashless. A person just needs an Aadhar number and a biometric reading devise which will help merchants carry out the transaction through Aadhar seeded bank account of the customer, he explained.
 
 This is in addition to the Rupay, UPI and *99# modes of payment already rolled out to promote cashless transactions after demonetization, he said. With 108 mobile phones across India, that is more than population of France and Italy and 110 crore Aadhars in place, 50 crore internet access points – both landline and wireless based – India will strive to become a digitally empowered nation at the earliest, he said.
 
 Describing the village level entrepreneurs (VLEs) of common service centres as digital soldiers of digital India, the minister presented laptops to five such VLEs of CSC in Karnataka for their commendable job in creating awareness about digital payment. They are Umar Farookh from Hassan, Ravi Shankar from Bidar, Kailash from Davangere, Shivu from Dharwad and Garima from Bengaluru Urban. There are nearly 2.4-lakh VLEs across India as on December 31, 2016.
 
 The minister and guests also conducted the lucky grahak yojana that saw 14,357 customers who used Rupay card, 410 customers who transacted using AePS, 222 who used UPI and 11 who used *99# modes to transact in a cashless manner, win prizes. Thus far, 9.67 crore transactions have been carried out using Rupay cards, 35.76 lakh through AePS, 34.65-lakh through UPI and 86,630 using *99# mode. Union minister Ramesh Jigaginagi, and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, spoke.
 
 
