AHMEDABAD: A fire on the third floor of SAL Hospital at   created panic among patients and their relatives on Thursday evening. 

  The   (AFES) controlled the flames and smoke after a two-and-a-half hour operation.   officials said that the probable reason for the incident is short-circuit in a biomedical equipment store room. About 100 persons trapped on the floor were evacuated by AFES using snorkels. 
 
 The relatives of patients on higher floors prayed for their safety as the entrance was blocked for the AFES operation for over two hours. Officials said that none of the patients were affected in the incident. 
 
  For  , this was an inferno that will take time to subside from his mind. Jain was among the first persons to see the flames and inform the authorities, when he saw the fire in the third-floor windows. 
 
 “My mother is in the ICU. There was initial panic about her safety, but I could not go up as the stairs and the elevators shut down. There was no way to communicate either. Eventually, my sister reached the ICU and told me that everything was okay. My mother had no idea about what was going on,” Jain said.
 
 He was among the many who prayed for the safety of their loved ones when SAL Hospital near   reported a major fire on Thursday, at about 7pm.
 
 Dhaval Prajapati, whose father was admitted in the hospital, said he rushed into the foyer after finding out about the blaze and tried to start the hospital’s fire fighting system, by using the firehoses and fire extinguishers. However, by that time a Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) team had arrived and started their operations.
 
 “There was confusion about what was going on. I am happy that the fire didn’t spread to other parts of the hospital,” he said.
 
  
  Another person, who did not want to be named, got emotional outside the hospital when the operation was under way. “We were exhausted and had just gone to a nearby lodge to get some rest, before the night shift next to my father. We saw smoke from the lodge window and rushed to the spot. We were told that everything is under control,” he said.
 
 For AFES, the operation started with four fire-fighting vehicles a total of 27 vehicles were ultimately employed.
 
 Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, said that they suspect the fire started after a short-circuit in the biomedical equipment store, on the corner of the third floor.
 
 “There was no escape for the smoke and we had to use heavy-duty blowers to disperse the smoke and improve visibility. As this was a hospital, we operated with caution and first evacuated persons on the affected floor using a snorkel and then contained the flames. The smoke had reached the upper floors as well. We also had to smash some glass panes, to release the smoke. No one was hurt in the incident,” he said.
 
 
