From Elvis Presley’s iconic jumpsuit in the 60s to Victoria Beckham’s slouchy trousers in 2017, white coloured pants have been sported by celebrities over the decades whenever they’ve wanted to make a solid style statement. But despite the versatility of the   — it can be worn for casual as well as semi-formal outings — most of us are wary of flaunting the pristine colour on our pants.
 
 Says designer Sayantan Sarkar, “Since it is the onset of spring, white is a great colour to incorporate in your wardrobe. But due to its reflective quality, it tends to highlight the contours of the body, so women who are conscious of the shape of their thighs, don’t want to wear the shade. Another common reason why white is so sparingly worn is because it can easily get decolourised, which looks bad.” This season, it’s time to give your trusted blue and black   a break and go for white lowers.
 
 
  are a great base for florals and pastel colours. A lot depends on how and what colour tops or accessories one teams it with. Designer Shruti Sancheti suggests, “White looks great with tops in colours like azure, powder pink, canary yellow or beige. When it comes to belts, shoes and bags, go for neutral colours that will complement the white instead of stark contrasts.” Sakar adds, “High contrast for tops should be avoided, else the white denims look too jarring by themselves.” 
 
 
 White isn’t a colour associated with slim silhouettes, but there are hacks you can use to avoid looking bottom-heavy. Designer Surily Goel shares, “Choose a style/cut that is flattering. For instance, if you have big hips, wear a pair of pants, which has a flare at the hem. If you are skinny, go for something fitted.” Sancheti adds, “White lowers are tricky, especially for pear-shaped women because they amplify the hip and thigh area in a non-flattering way. Also, if you are not careful about the fabric and undergarments, it can look tacky.” If you have heavy hips, be careful about the construction and fit. Choose the top carefully and always wear skin coloured undergarments which are seamless. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : Wearing stilettos in shades like nude, metallic or white will make your legs appear longer. If you wear dark or bright-coloured shoes with white pants, you break that long, lean line, and look shorter and heavier.
 
 
