I always loved pets and wanted one but owing to my hectic job in a bank I couldn’t keep one, especially after my marriage. 

 After a few years I quit my job to make more time for my son. However, once my husband left for office and my son for school, I would feel a kind of emptiness, sitting alone at home. I was not interested in TV and was getting resigned to loneliness. It was at that point that I chanced across Fluffy, totally out of the blue. We were at my family home in Thrissur when we spotted a tiny black cat in the road, getting almost run over by vehicles. We took him in, thinking we will give him away to be adopted by someone. But once he stepped into our flat in Kochi, it was like he belonged there, as if he knew us for long. It was a mutual feeling, and in that very night, we decided to keep him. So it was like him adopting us than we adopting him. He was a little fluffier than ordinary cats and so we named him Fluffy.
 
 After he entered my life, I no longer felt the loneliness, or the feeling of coming back to an empty home. It was like I had another member in the family who would always be with me. He follows me around the house to every room and would wait for me outside the door when I go out shopping. Earlier I used to go out as much as possible but now I want to come back as soon as possible because Fluffy would be waiting for me. When we go on long trips we put him up for boarding but when we return he would not only express his joy at our coming back but also his complaints at leaving him. As far as possible I try to take him with me in the car, in his little carrier which he loves.
 
 But the biggest change was in my husband Prakash and my son Pranaiy. Prakash used to just tolerate animals and initially used to get irritated with Fluffy since he would spoil the sofa upholstery. But gradually he started to like him, and he now pets him often. He takes care of him when I’m away. He also lets Fluffy sleep in his favourite position at night — on the bed between our pillows, his head on my pillow. My son too used to be scared of dogs and cats but Fluffy is his sibling now. They have a special bond and play together just like siblings. I’ve noticed that he has become kinder towards all animals; even on the streets he would go and pet stray animals, now.
 
 A cat can never be trained like a dog but it is not selfish as it is made out to be and just wants our presence. It can be very affectionate, and will show its affection in different ways. We don’t know cats really, I always feel. In many flats dogs are not allowed and a cat is a good option for such people. People told us a black cat brings bad luck but for us, Fluffy has only brought love and happiness. A pet can make all the difference in your life.
 
 
 Sanal Kumar Sasidharan's film Sexy Durga had made news when it was selected for the competition section of the International Film Festival of Rotterdam (IFFR). The film has now won the prestigious Hivor Tiger Award, the first Indian film to win the honour. According to the jury, the film won for “its daring and resourceful approach in creating a mood of constant tension. The particular use of camera and acting give a sense of immediacy and momentum, while providing an insight into multi-layered power dynamics of gender, class and authority.”
 The movie’s director, who had ealier helmed Ozhivudivasathe Kali, said, “This is for the team Sexy Durga. This is for Malayalam independent cinema.” 
 The film, a road movie starring Kannan Nayar and Rajshri Deshpande in the lead roles, is yet to release in a mainstream theatre in Kerala.
 Set up in 1995 with the aim of discovering, promoting and distinguishing up-and-coming international film talent, the award is accompanied by a €40,000 cash prize (`29 lakh) to be divided between director and producer. 
 
