NAGPUR: Sitting through the multilingual play ‘Chehal Pehal’, a Stagecraft theatre production, is easy on the mind and nourishes the soul. The lighthearted play is a delight to watch and that’s perhaps what has made it one of the most successful production of this theatre group.

 The eleventh show of the play, which debuted last year, was held at   on Sunday and it once again made its mark. Loosely adapted from William Shakespeare’s comic English play ‘Much Ado about nothing’ which he penned in 1599, ‘Chehal Pehal’ was a perfect fit even in a setting of New Delhi in seventies and once again got a full house. “I think it’s probably because the play is fun, joyous and entertaining,” says the director  . “It rejoices in the quirks of ordinary people. The characters are alive with a basic human warmth,” he says comparing it to Hrishikesh Mukherjee films which were so popular during the seventies and adds that the adaptation is very close to the original-over the top yet full of relatable warmth of everyday life.
 
 The romcom has had a smooth ride across the eight shows held in the city and two in Mumbai. “The play is a throwback on the mushy seventies when love stories and emotions had a lingering sweetness,” says   who plays the gregarious Leena auntie with aplomb and has been with the show all through. Underlining the crackling chemistry between the actors which has improved with every show, Leonardo Leo who plays the cynical Bansi says, “We have taken the play a notch higher with every performance. The light hearted banter of characters, the happy ending and perfect comic timing makes it so endearing to the audience,” he says.
 
 The team aspires to hold at least 25 shows of the play. “Since it is set in the seventies people love to relive the mood and music of that era,” feels Nitish Chandra, who plays the conniving Jagdish. “The play is in Indian context and a very intriguing environment is created through conversations which are in Hindi, English and Punjabi. The audience find it very enjoyable and so we have been picking this whenever we are required to do a show,” he adds.
 
 
