PUDUCHERRY: The territorial police busted yet another child prostitution racket and rescued four girls, all aged between 15 and 17 and a one-year-old baby of one of the rescued   Police have launched a hunt for a gang of more than 15 members, comprising mostly   involved in the crime.

 Three girls were sent to observation home in Puducherry while one is undergoing psychiatric treatment in a government hospital. The case was transferred to   wing following complaints of tardy investigation. CID sources said the department had identified the key accused, who ran the prostitution racket. In May 2014, police busted a child prostitution racket, rescued four minor girls and booked 18 people, including eight policemen and a retired police official.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was to target runaway girls and entice them promising money and lavish life and force them into prostitution. The gang members mostly auto drivers spot minor girls loitering at the bus stand and offer them free ride to the beach where other members of the gang take control over the girls. The gang members initially offer them food and accommodation. Later, they force the girls into prostitution. The gang used guest houses in Puducherry and Cuddalore district for their criminal activities.
 
 Police said of the four girls rescued in the latest case, two hail from Puducherry, one each from Karaikal and Cuddalore district. All the four girls are runaway children. Three of them are orphans. One of the girls from Puducherry had eloped with her lover. 
 
 But she separated from her husband after giving birth to a baby girl. She married another man but left her second husband also after her mother-in-law aborted her fetus by offering her milk mixed with abortion pills. She befriended another man, a member of the prostitution gang. The man offered accommodation to her and three other girls at his relative’s house at Vambakeerapalayam. 
 
 Finding four minor girls staying at a house under suspicious circumstances in their locality, local residents alerted the Odiansalai police station. 
 
 A police team rescued them with the help of the child welfare committee. Police booked cases against unidentified accused under sections 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of children from sexual offences act, 2012 besides different sections of  
 
