He is the quintessential Sooraj Barjatya’s Prem on TV, but in films,   has always played a casanova. This time, though, he is doing a family entertainer — ' ' — purely for his fans. Ahead of the film’s release, BT catches up with the actor for a candid chat about breaking away from the erotic hero image in  , working with star kids and fatherhood. Excerpts...

 
 On television, people pictured me as Prem, which Salman Khan has been known as. Whenever people met me, they'd say that they wanted a husband like me for their daughter. But in movies, you don’t have a choice. 'Wajah Tum Ho' and 'Khamoshiyan' weren’t the kind of films my fans would have liked to see me in. Many said that they couldn’t watch those films with their families. They wanted to see me romancing and dancing. So, when I heard 'Laali Ki Shaadi’s script, I knew it’s a character my fans would love and it is impactful as well. 
 
 
 
 Not at all. Where I am today is a dream for so many people. When you don’t have a filmi background, you can't be choosy. But yes, in the process, I declined some movies, too. I believe you get work because of your previous projects. If I sit back thinking that I want to do only a big-banner film, I would just be waiting.
 
 
 
 I have worked too much on TV and have also done a couple of films to be intimidated by star kids. I am a silent person on the set; there will be respect, but not inhibition. Akshara (Haasan) and Vivaan (Shah) are simple and good actors. They were very grounded and we had fun on the sets. I used to tell Akshara that I am a great fan of   since 'Chachi 420'. Similarly, I would talk about   with Vivaan.
 
 
 
 The industry is ready to help if you are talented and hard-working. I agree that it’s easier for a star kid to enter Bollywood, but that brings along with it a huge responsibility. They have to meet the standards set by their family. As an outsider, I don't have to face that pressure.
 
 
 I am a big fan of Superman; he has the power to do nice things for human beings. We can also do the same using our power as a celebrity. Debina and I were thinking about adoption since a long time. It finally happened last year after we discussed it with our parents. We have planned everything for them very carefully. I think it's just a start because people keep talking about women empowerment, but nobody takes any steps. I think I have done the right thing and hope people will follow it.
 
 
 
 That will need planning as such decisions can't be taken overnight. The girls come from a rural background, so bringing them here immediately will be a cultural shock for them. We are focussing on their studies right now. We will do everything according to their comfort. We have not set a specific time frame because that will be put pressure on them. Similarly, there is no pressure on them to take my surname either. They call us Gurmeet and Debina, so we are friends. In today's time, the relationship between parents and kids should be that of friends. So, I don't mind them addressing me by my name. Debina and I talk to them every day. My life has changed after adopting them. I have the responsibility of looking after them.
 
 
 
 We haven't thought about it because we are busy in our careers. We haven't done any family planning and will take the step when we are ready. 
 
  
  
 
 
