MUMBAI:   line services were disrupted after commuters staged a   to protest against   of the 9.11am Chembur-CST local for the second consecutive day. Around 15 locals were held up due to the protest.

 The train is much in demand as commuters between Govandi and Kurla are able to get space as trains originating from Navi Mumbai and beyond are overcrowded even before they reach  .
 
 A railway official said, “The 9.54am CST-Belapur local was held up by angry commuters to protest against cancellation of the Chembur-CST local.” Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel rushed to the site to maintain law and order after around 50 commuters came on the tracks by 9.30am.
 
 RPF and GRP personnel requested the agitators to vacate the tracks as it had led to a breakdown in services on the entire corridor. But the protesters demanded that an empty rake be arranged from Chembur. A decision to arrange for one pacified the protesters, who vacated the tracks. But some others tried to block the tracks and created a ruckus. 
 
 An RPF official said, “Two protesters were arrested by Mankhurd RPF. They were produced before court at CSMT, and were convicted and fined Rs4,000 each.” 
 
 Vashi resident Amit Jain said, “My train took almost 20 minutes from Govandi to Chembur. I alighted and took a taxi to Sewri.”
 
 Chembur resident Sumit Rao said, “Harbour line is getting step-motherly treatment. Rakes rake on the corridor are old and trains are frequently cancelled.”
 
 CR chief public relations officer Sunil Udasi said, “We appeal to commuters not to hold up trains as it aggravates the problem.” He said the train had been cancelled due to a technical problem. Another rake was arranged for Chembur commuters, he added.
 
 Another senior CR official said, “We were running 20% fewer trains as there were few passengers due to rain on Wednesday. We usually cancel short distance trains like Chembur or Kurla locals instead of Panvel or Belapur ones as passengers of more destinations can use the service if the train runs long distance.”
 
 
 
 Rail commuters are already under tremendous stress because of over-crowding in local trains and shoddy infrastructure and facilities at railway stations. This stress unfortunately spills into uncontrolled rage when trains are suddenly cancelled during peak hours, leaving thousands stranded and frustrated. Many times the blame lies with the railway administration for failing to make timely announcements about services. These spontaneous agitations must be condemned as they end up disrupting the entire train schedule but the railways needs to be more sensitive to the plight of harried commuters.
 
