CHANDIGARH: Major Satish Dahiya, who died while fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, was cremated with full military honours at Banhari village near Narnaul on Wednesday evening. His father lit the pyre in the presence of senior officers of Army, police and district administration, and a large number of local residents. 

 Major Dahiya, 31, had returned to duty on January 27, after spensing his vacation with his family at the village. He died on Tuesday, while leading the Army operation in Handwara, in which three terrorists were killed.
 
 His two-and-a-half-year-old Priya, who fondly called him “Army man”, barely understood the funeral arrangements but she clung to her grandfather. She spent the day either staring blankly at the walls or keeping her eyes tightly shut.
 
  had completed his primary schooling from village school, matriculation from Modi Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, where his father   had once started his business. After graduation and post-graduation in English, Dahiya was commissioned in Army Service Corps (ASC) in 2008. At present, he was attached with the Rashtriya Rifles and posted in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Dahiya is survived by his parents, wife and a daughter.
 
 According to his uncle Satpal Dahiya, Satish was also selected as assistant commandant in BSF, but he preferred to join the Army. 
 
 Earlier, the body of Major Satish was brought to Delhi on Wednesday afternoon in a special aircraft of   along with other soldiers who had also attained martyrdom in the operation. At Delhi, Prime Minister  , Army chief General Bipin Rawat and other senior defence officers also paid homage to the deceased soldiers.
 
 Thereafter, Dahiya’s body was brought to Narnaul in a special helicopter from where it was taken via road to his native village. Major Dahiya had led the operation launched by Army in Handwara on Wednesday which eventually resulted in the elimination of three terrorists delivering a major blow to the terror network in North Kashmir. The officer had been part of several counter-terrorist operations and was also awarded for gallantry earlier.
 
 Major will live in hearts: CM
 
 In a condolence message, Haryana chief minister   said Major Satish Dahiya would continue to live in the hearts of the people of the state through his brave deeds. The supreme sacrifice made by him has brought pride to the entire state and the country, he added.
 
 
