CHANDIGARH: Lack of cleanliness, wild growth of bushes around the houses and choked drainage has turned the life of   residents into a daily struggle. The house owners claimed the team from sanitation department hardly visits the area and hence the locality never gets cleaned.

 The people have also started dumping their garbage in the green belt. During the rains, when the winds blow towards the houses, foul smell makes the area residents uncomfortable.
 
 The green belt adjacent to the houses has wild growth of bushes which has extended upto the footpath where garbage remains scattered from the household. Due to bushes around the area, snakes and rats sneak inside the houses, which is a risk to the life of residents. 
 
  a resident said, “The snakes have become a regular guests in our houses, while we literally run in panic to save our lives. The bushes must be removed from time to time so that residents do not have to risk their lives.”
 
 The residents further claimed the wild growth in the green belt has become a hideout for addicts who consume liquor and drugs during the day with no one to check on them. Even if the residents complain or try to stop the addicts, they get into an argument with people.
 
 The bushes also block the flow of water which gets collected after rain and have become a breeding ground for the mosquitoes. 
 
 Advocate G D   who is also a resident of Sector 40D said, “The situation has become worse for us. We can feel the presence of a huge number of mosquitoes in the locality, due to which many people fall ill. He mentioned that his son too is suffering from dengue for a couple of days. “Authorities should take preventive measures to avoid such incidents,” he said.
 
 The bushes have also covered the drainage meant at the corner of the houses because of which the rain water collected takes several days to dry out. The natural flow of water has been blocked by thick bushes.  , another resident said, “How can the city become smart when the basic facilities are missing. At least the drains must be cleaned on a regular basis.
 
 Moreover, the streetlights in the area have not been working for past several months as a result of which the area sinks into darkness after sundown giving a shield to criminal activities.
 
 Another resident of Sector 40D   said, “Thieves managed to sneak inside my house while I was sleeping at night and made off with valuables and cash. The lights should be put to order as soon as possible so that people feel safe at night and such criminal activities can be curtailed."
 
