AHMEDABAD: In the changing family structure, dog has moved up from being ' ' to a family's child. In fact, family court granted divorce to a childless couple recently after the wife reluctantly handed over custody of their children -two dogs named Langdi and Angel — to her estranged husband.

 According to case details,   Brahmanand and Meena got married in 2003. Marital discord cropped up in 2010 and peaked in 2015 following which the couple began living separately. The wife lodged a complaint of cruelty, beating and issuing threats against her husband and in-laws. Family members intervened and pacified the couple to file for divorce on condition that the husband would give Rs 30 lakh towards permanent alimony and wife would withdraw the police complaint.
 
 Accordingly, the husband and his family members approached the HC for quashing of the FIR wherein Meena gave her consent for quashing as both of them had decided to get separated formally. In 2015, the couple filed a divorce petition before the city family court stating they both had a consent to separate under section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act.
 
 The couple was qualified for the divorce decree as they passed the six-month cooling period in separation after filing for the divorce. But, the case did not move further. The husband had a condition for giving a final nod for the divorce. He wanted custody of 'Langdi' and 'Angel' — two dogs who were retained by the wife during their separation in 2015. The wife was adamant not to part with the canines.
 
 With custody of dogs becoming the bone of contention, the divorce case remained pending for almost a year. On the family court's order, the dogs were brought be fore the court as the dispute was not resolved.
 
 Finally, the wife approached the high court and requested to cancel its order by which the FIR against the husband was quashed. She argued that though the husband had consented for divorce, he was not cooperating. The husband too spelt out his problem that without custody of the dogs, he would not give final consent. On November 11 last year, the HC ordered them to sort out their problems and directed the family court to take a final decision on the divorce petition.
 
 Desperate to end the tumultuous relationship by obtaining divorce decree, the wife brought both the dogs to family court and handed over them to the husband and obtained the divorce decree.
 
 (Names changed)
 
