BENGALURU: Once again,   crippled normal life in the city, leaving residents high and dry . Two citizens lost their lives, taking the total number of rain-related deaths in September to six.

 Beginning late on Tuesday night, the downpour continued till Wednesday morning. Meteorological Centre, Bengaluru, recorded a total rainfall of 55.8mm till 8.30am on Wednesday, which was enough to inundate the ill-equipped city. Several localities in east, south and north Bengaluru were inundated, inconveniencing residents and dampening the Dasara spirit.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Fire and emergency services staff and members of civil defence has to press boats into action at HSR Layout, JP Nagar, Koramangala, Whitefield and Kodichikkanahalli to evacuate residents from houses.Heavy showers also resulted in breaching of Dod dabidarakallu lake in north Bengaluru.
 
 The chaos dealt another blow to citizens, who were yet to recover from the havoc wreaked on Sunday night (the city had received 54mm of rain). According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) data, Hemmigepura recorded the highest rainfall of 139.5mm within BBMP limits and Avalahalli in Bengaluru East taluk saw 196mm.
 
 After inspecting rain affected areas,   said the city has been receiving abundant rain, which is what is causing the problem. “The problem earlier seen in Madivala has now been replicated in HSR Layout. The city needs Rs 300 crore to tide over the crisis. The government has granted the amount and the work will begin soon,“ he said.
 
 GOPALAN MALL WALL COMES CRASHING DOWN
 
 Residents of a building adjacent to Gopalan Signature Mall, Byap panahalli were in for a sudden wake-up call when the security guard began knocking on each door. When they rushed to the car parking lot of the building, the wall separating them from the mall had collapsed and water gushed into the apartment basement. “By the time we came down, the water had entered the building. Most of us are elderly people and there was no way we could run to our cars and take them out,“ said Meena Basu (name changed), a resident of the building.
 
 DAILY-WAGE WORKER KILLED IN WALL COLLAPSE AT HOME
 
 A 48-year-old daily-wage worker succumbed to injuries after a portion of the wall at his residence in Alur village near Dobbespet collapsed during late-night rain.
 
 Narayanappa alias Narayanaswamy was fast asleep when rain pounded the village around 2am. The village is about 40km from central Bengaluru. There were five others in the house, including Narayanappa's wife, son and mother.
 
 “Narayanappa was sleeping near the main entrance when the dilapidated wall fell on him. His son and wife, who were sleeping in other room, rushed to the hall and heard Narayanappa's plea for help.Though they tried their best to get him out of the debris, they couldn't succeed,“ said Madanayakanahalli police, under whose limits the area falls.
 
 Narayanappa's mother ran out and shouted for help.“Unfortunately, her voice could not be heard due to the heavy showers. After a while, neighbours woke up to the commotion and rushed to the spot and cleared the debris.By then, Narayanappa had lost consciousness. He was shifted to hospital but was declared dead on arrival,“ a police officer said.
 
 WOMAN ELECTROCUTED IN KR PURAM
 
 A 60-year-old woman was electrocuted when she tried to switch on the UPS at her K R Puram residence late on Tuesday night. There was no power due to the downpour, and preliminary investigation revealed blamed a short circuit.
 
 Joshna Meenamma was a homemaker. “We have asked her sons to file a police complaint. We will wait till Friday and then register a suo motu complaint,“ KR Puram police said.
 
