 Hi, I am a 24-year-old guy. I live a normal life but I have a dark side. I masturbate a lot. I have a habit of collecting celeb   from Hollywood movies and TV series. I collect videos of Indians celebs as well. I lost my interest in porn but watching   stirs something inside me. No matter how many times I try to distract my thoughts I end up masturbating. If I stay self controlled for a month without masturbating, then I would masturbate the next month more than five to six times. I don't see women in a wrong way, I just watch them in movies. How can I overcome this disturbing habit? - By Anonymous

 
  There are a million misconceptions regarding masturbation and porn. Down the ages, it has been passed on by our narrow minded ancestors that masturbation is a sin and extremely harmful to our health and reproductive ability in future. And that it will render a person impotent and finish of all his sperms, and that a single ml of semen is equivalent to 100 drops of blood. Nothing could be farther from the truth than that.
  
 The urge to masturbate or have sex is one of the primal desires of humans and suppressing it will lead to unnatural consequences like frustration, irritability and even "night fall". Coming back to the query, masturbating 2-3 times per week at 24 years of age in an unmarried or sexually inactive male is the norm. The arousal could be from any source including porn or "celeb videos". The problem arises if the urge to masturbate overcomes and supersedes all other daily activities and routines. When the priority changes to just procuring videos and masturbating at all costs at the expense of our job, family or friends, then it is a problem. A person would be liable to legal problems if there is some voyeuristic behaviour or stalking of the celebrity. Other than that it is all fine.
  
 The more you try to suppress the natural urge to masturbate, the more it will manifest latently or later on. Therefore, we should embrace and enjoy certain pleasures that have been bestowed upon us without hesitation or guilt as long as it is in our limits and control. And you certainly are, if you do it 5-6 times a month. So cheer up and don't worry. Focus on your work but this is also important. 
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
