HYDERABAD: The seventh edition of the annual Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF 2017) drew to a close at the Hyderabad Public School on Sunday. A host of authors, poets, artistes as well as literature enthusiasts from the city gathered at the venue to listen to a series of stage talks and watch cultural performances, on the final day of the event.

 While the first half of the day was spent in discussing issues such as the importance of preserving endangered Indian languages and human trafficking, the latter half was peppered with film screenings and performances. Oggudolu, Telangana’s traditional folk theatre form, for instance, found many takers.
 
 Speaking at a session titled ‘Endangered languages of Tamil Nadu’, panellist and linguist M Ganesan said, “From a pool of 37 tribal languages in Tamil Nadu, a whopping 13 are endangered. The main threat to such languages is the non-functionality in an urban scenario.” Meanwhile, Rangan K, a professor of linguistics, asserted that the best way to preserve endangered languages was to introduce them as the medium of instruction in schools. One of the key highlights of the day was a stage talk featuring human rights activist and author Harsh Mander, who kicked off the session by reading the preface of his latest book ‘Fatal Accidents of Birth’. The book is dedicated to Dalit scholar   Vemula, whose birthday falls on January 30. The book features a series of 17 stories of ‘suffering, oppression and resistance’ from across the country including Vemula’s, said Mander. The title has been drawn from Vemula’s suicide note in which he had written - “My birth is my fatal accident’.
 
 “Rohith’s suicide note moved millions of people. He was a bright, young student who had many dreams, but could not escape the fatal accident of his birth. His letters and death laid bare the truth about the plight of the oppressed people across the country. This book is hence dedicated in atonement and love to Rohith Vemula,” he added.
 
 The book also features the stories of Ashok Mochi, whose iconic photograph earned the dubious distinction of being the face of the 2002 Gujarat massacre; Ishrat Jahan, who was killed in an alleged fake encounter in 2004 and the youngest convict in the fatal Nirbhaya gang rape case of 2012.
 
 Artists, academicians, writers and culture enthusiasts thronged the venue from January 27 to January 29, where the seventh edition of the literary festival kicked off with film screenings, art shows and talks, which left the literati spoilt for choice. 
 
 Meanwhile, students of University Of Hyderabad have planned to conduct a string of events, including protests to mark Rohith’s birthday on Monday. 
 
 Angry students at the university said that the government has done little to provide solutions for problems on campus, including improving the condition of   on campus.
 
