BENGALURU: At a time when the city's realty sector is facing a dip in sales, though   remain stable, the  's (BDA) first luxury villa project has received a good response. It is the first BDA project which has been well received in several years.

 Officials said it has already received 500 applications and roughly over 1,000 queries from prospective buyers, more than double the number of units up for sale. The BDA had invited applications two months ago. Encouraged by the response, it has now extended the last date to file applications to Feb 28.
 
 The BDA's first luxury freehold villa project has a starting price of Rs 45 lakh, with hand over scheduled for the last quarter of 2017. Compared with its sites and other low-cost housing schemes, which many found to be beyond the reach of a certain section of the salaried class, their latest villa project is bound to be a success, officials said, adding the initial response was a pointer to this.
 
 “The project's pricing is its biggest strength. A 3BHK villa of 1,800 square feet will cost about Rs 50 lakh, almost 40% to 50% less than in projects by private developers in the same location,“ said PN Nayak, engineer member, BDA. The BDA is citing the project's prox imity to Golden Palms resort, be sides connectivity to   and   to market it. “In comparison with villas of private developers, this not only costs less than half but has a marginally higher plinth area,“ N G Gowdaiah, engineer officer of BDA,said.
 
 Established in 1976, the BDA is foraying into gated community segment with villa-styled homes for the first time after its pricey sites in Kempegowda Layout and boxy flats failed to evoke a good response. The BDA started the project in September 2015 and is in the process of building 104 two BHK villas and 252 three BHK villas spread over a 25-acre land.There will be six semi-detached villas in each block. The project with high-income groups on its radar will have a clubhouse, tennis court, swimming pool and roundthe-clock security with   camera surveillance for the first time.
 
 “We have decided to cut our profit margin from the project, but have not compromised on quality or amenities that come along with any other highrise residential project,“ he said.
 
 The BDA had, initially , planned to develop apartments at the site but the zoning rules don't allow construction of highrises. Allur and its surroundings fall under   reservoir catchment area special zone 3.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The Bengaluru Development Authority seems to be going off its beaten track in choosing to develop luxury villas over providing affordable housing, a problem the authority was envisioned to solve.Several of its projects not seeing light of day, the BDA should also focus on taking these to their completion. Although the prospect of owning a luxury villa at a modest price will be welcomed by many, the authority must ensure that quality concerns are not overlooked. The authority should also show the same initiative and zeal in putting an end to the woes of Arkavathy Layout owners.
 
