Chandrapur: Forest minister Sudhir   claimed that Chandrapur is blessed with natural wealth in the form of Tadoba and the forest department is keen on making it a destination of international attraction. The department has also developed a modern training centre in the newly built camping site at  , where local youths will be trained in the art of publicity, protection and conservation of tigers and forest, thus to make them tiger ambassadors of Tadoba. 

 Mungantiwar dedicated the camping site at Agarzari, along with incense stick projects at Agarzari, Devada and Junona and Adegaon and Bamboo artefact making centre at Adegaon villages located in buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) on the occasion.
 
 The minister maintained that this project will provide regular employment to 500 youths in the villages of Tadoba. He maintained that these projects will strengthen women’s self-help groups. He said that the training centre built at camping site in Agarzari is equipped with a digital workshop.
 
 Students from fringe forest villages will be imparted with knowledge of forest wealth, wild animals and their protection and conservation at the workshop through three-day resident training programmes.
 
 Mungantiwar maintained that this project will also help in building up the membership of   (Harit Sena) raised by the forest department. Mungantiwar said schemes for farm fencing, hike in compensation against the cattle kills in wild animal attacks, distribution of LPG connection, establishment of forest academy, and bamboo training and research centers are the few initiatives which is minimise the dependence of forest dwellers on forest produce. 
 
 He directed the officers to ensure that all the buffer villages are equipped with the free LPG connection by this Diwali. 
 
 Mungantiwar was accompanied by CCF and field director, TATR, GP Garad, deputy director (buffer) Gajendra Narwane, deputy director (core), KS Mankar, probationary ACF Rahul Patil and others during the programme.
 
 Photo The newly built camping site at Agarzari was dedicated to public at the hands of forest minister
 
 
