BHOPAL: Unnerved by mandatory two-child norm to keep the job, state government employees have demanded to implement the same rule for politicians. Employee unions, which were opposed to disciplinary action and termination of some employees on the basis of the rule, cited the state like Kerala. The union said Kerala implemented the rule for local representatives, but, the state government appeared to be sitting on it.

 “The state government recently sacked some employees after complaints of two-child norm violation against them had proved true. In Damoh and Indore districts, employees were terminated from the job. But, in case of politicians, it was not implemented though a similar rule was formed for public representatives,” said employees union convener Laxminarayan Sharma.
 
 As per the section 6(6) of MP Civil Services Rules, 1961 referring to the two-child norm, government employees cannot have more than two children after 2001 census results. In case of violation, employees can lose job. The rule was amended in 2000 when the sub-section (6) of two-child norm was added. 
 
 In 2006, a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister   had reconsidered the 2000 amendment— made during the   regime — changing it to two deliveries and not two children as the eligibility criterion in view of the possibility of twins.
 
 In a statement, MP Class III government employees’ union said the government must make it compulsory for politicians and debar them from contesting elections or accepting any constitutional position. A memorandum was also submitted to the prime minister, chief minister, chief election commissioner and chief election officer (CEO), they said.
 
 The union also referred to a decision of January 31 in 2014 in which the then district judge (DJ) V P Shrivastava had directed all government employees to submit details of their family members. The directives had also sought details of children born after January 26, 2011. Some employees, who were found in violation of the norm, were served show-cause notices on December 19, 2015.
 
 Reacting to employees’ demand, minister of state (MoS) for general administration department (GAD) Lal Singh Arya said the rule was framed for employees and the government was bound to follow the rule. 
 
 “Those who violate the rule, then law will take its own course,” said Arya.
 
 The union members are now approaching the chief election commissioner and the high court to demand a similar rule for politicians, sources in the secretariat said.
 
