HYDERABAD: Conviction for road accidents is abysmally low in Hyderabad. On an average, six road mishaps occur in the city every day, resulting in injuries to seven persons and death of one or two people.

 The police make arrests in 60-65% of the cases, but offenders get convicted only in 3% of them.
 
 In 2012, as many as 464 incidents of fatal road accidents were reported in Hyderabad, out of which only 301 cases were under detection. But only 11 cases are under investigation.
 
 Out of the 301 chargesheeted cases, only in 14 cases have the guilty been convicted, while in 171 cases the accused were acquitted. The rest of the cases are still in court, at various stages of investigation.
 
 The police say that lack of sufficient evidence to nail the accused is also the main reason for the acquittals.
 
 “If an accused is caught on the spot, it becomes easy to link him or her and the vehicle to the crime scene.In hit-and-run cases, it becomes difficult to identify the offender. Even when we identify the guilty, it is a cumbersome task to prove the offender's guilt in court,“ said   inspector  , who recently booked road accident accused under stringent sections like the IPC's section 304 (ii; culpable homicide not amounting to murder).
 
 Another reason for the low conviction rate can be attributed to out-of-court settlements. “The anger of losing a family member vanishes from memory eventually and often the victim's family members are willing to take compensation from the accused, and witnesses also follow the line,“ said an inspector from the Hyderabad commissionerate.
 
 “The accused, who may be from other states, often jump bail and change their residence, making the issuing of non-bailable warrants difficult. Such cases remain pending in courts for a long time,“ Goud said.
 
 While the lack of witnesses is a key problem in cases where arrests are made, city-based legal experts say improper investigation is also a major reason for a low conviction rate.
 
 “The conviction rate in cases of fatal road accidents is low as the police are happy with arrests and do not focus on subsequent legal procedure. It is noticed that lack of interest in ensuring proper investigation also contributes to a low conviction rate,“ senior advocate L Ravichander told TOI. 
 
 Pointing to long pendency in courts, he said, “An accident case appeal which came to the high court in 2008 is still under trial. That means the offence might have occurred 15 to 20 years ago.“
 
 There are also a huge number of cases where the accused is yet to be identi fied. Such cases are known as hit-and-run cases. They are reported mainly during odd hours where there is not much traf fic on road. “The key to solve hit-andrun cases is installing   cameras, which we are doing now. Several accident cases were solved due to CCTV cameras,“ said   police inspector K Srinivas.
 
