

 
 The key issue in the MSME sector is that of compliance. There have been initial hiccups due to new technology and new type of returns, something they were not used to. The new tax presents a new learning for tax practitioners as well, which is posing difficulty. I would think much of these are initial hiccups that would soon get addressed. The GST Council would be looking at what can be done to give them some relief.
 
 
 It may be discussed because when we are looking at the problems of the small-scale industry and how to find a solution, then this may come up as one of the options. But, ultimately, the Council will decide.
 
 
 We should do it, but only after seeing revenue trends. Rationalisation leading to gravitation to standard rate of 18% can result into less classification disputes.
 
 
 We are learning from experience. We would also like to carry out an indepth survey to identify the difficulties and pain points on the compliance side, which are seen as a burden by the industry. The government and the GST Council would be   to the idea of reconsidering some decisions. But when people talk about ease of doing business, one must not forget that prior to GST, industry had to comply with 10 different taxes and a separate tax authority for all those taxes. But, nevertheless, if we find any practice that is obnoxious and not exactly taxpayer friendly, we would be willing to relook at them. We should make them taxpayer friendly, online and simple.
 
 
 Every single law, rule has been debated in GST Council meetings. But some things are known only once they are put to practice. There can be issues, but at that time, correcting them is more important than blaming anyone. As long as the government and the GST Council are open to changes, one should not worry. Everyone had expected some discomfort in transition. It happened when VAT was implemented. We have responded to those challenges.
 
 
 That must be the fear. GST is a selfpolicing system. Unless you report your transactions, your subsequent buyer also cannot.
 
 
 If such a feedback has come, we can look at it. But I am not sure if such an assurance can be given legally.
 
 
 …much of the cash collection is in form of Integrated GST. IGST has to be apportioned. We are hopeful that over a period, this trend will change and more of cash payment will happen in CGST and SGST rather than IGST. Moreover, July and August are some of the lowest months in terms of sales —something that has been observed in VAT as well as excise duty collections. As festival months come, things will improve.
 
 
 It is too early for me to say we are going to lose. Compared to SGST, the revenue in CGST is less, but that is partly because people have used the transitional credit, which was larger for the Central government. For example, last month some `60-65,000 crore was claimed by way of transition credit, then again, next month about `18,000 crore was claimed.
 
 
 It has begun to come down. For states, the transitional credit, it is much less. That is why states are more comfortable in terms of SGST income.
 
 
 We will have to see at least four-five months cycle because the trend is changing now. For example, in the first month, more of payment was in IGST as goods are taken inter-state, but when the goods are sold again the CGST/SGST liability comes. And now in October, more payment is coming in CGST and SGST than IGST. The IGST credit will now be used and that is how it will happen. Also, right now we are only depending on the taxpayers – 3B is a self-assessment. We are believing the sales and credit number but subsequently when GSTR - one, two and three forms are matched, this may change and we may get some more revenue.
 
 
 We want to find a way to remove the issue of blockage of funds. We have found some options. We will go with all the options to the council and it will take a call on whichever is best.
 
 
 It appears to us that there is some amount of normalcy because destocking had happened on the manufacturer side but now restocking has started. 
 
 There is some concern on the reverse-charge mechanism of levying GST... this is the main clause under which people will not be able to hide turnover. It is the crux of GST- Section 9 (4). GST Council will have to take a view. There is misunderstanding as well. 
 
 Some people believe they have to pay tax immediately, but credit will come later. This is not the case. You get the credit in the same monthly return in which your output tax liability under reverse-charge mechanism arises.
 
