LUCKNOW: Giving a fresh impetus to the possibility of formation of an anti-BJP front ahead of 2019   elections, BSP chief   and SP president   Yadav will come together to attend the   hosted by Congress president   on Friday. The coming together of the UP's two regional satraps also holds significance in the wake of upcoming Presidential elections scheduled in July.

 This is the first time that   and Akhilesh will come together at any event of political relevance. In fact, Mayawati, who is not known to attend any political function hosted by other parties, had even stayed away from Congress-led protest in the past. A top BSP functionary confirmed to TOI that Mayawati will attend the lunch hosted by Sonia. The BSP chief will be accompanied by her close aide and BSP RS MP, Satish Chandra Mishra.
 
 Akhilesh will also be part of the political congregation at Sonia's residence in Delhi. SP chief spokesperson, Rajendra Chaudhary confirmed to TOI that SP chief will surely attend the event. The coming together of Akhilesh and Mayawati, political experts said, could potentially open the larger possibility of a grand alliance taking shape ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Both the leaders know the importance of an alliance in the present political scenario to take on a surging BJP,”' said a senior SP leader.
 
 Just before the UP assembly elections results, Akhilesh had said that his party was open to an alliance with “all secular parties” to stop the BJP from coming to power, in an apparent indication of joining hands with Mayawati’s BSP. Mayawati, though, had then kept silent but the poor election results forced her to give a rethink. 
 
 It was subsequently on April 14 this year on Ambedkar Jayanti, Mayawati, while addressing party workers in Lucknow, said that she was ready for alliance with any party to counter BJP. RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and TMC president Mamta Banerjee are learnt to have played the role of a peace maker between the two arch-rival in UP politics.
 
 In a series of internal meetings with the party cadre, Mayawati has been saying that she would review the ‘janadhaar' (vote base) of the SP and Congress before taking a call on any alliance. Political experts said that the Friday event will also give the Congress a chance to amalgamate regional outfits into a one big political force to counter the BJP in Presidential elections.
 
