Patiala: Claiming that the clampdown on drug peddlers has been a huge success, director general of police (DGP) Suresh Arora said on Thursday there was no ‘big fish’ to catch in the state. While launching the crackdown on drug trade, chief minister Amarinder Singh had stated that they were not targetting small peddlers, but the bigger offenders.

 “For the police department, anyone involved in selling drugs is a big fish. It is not that Punjab police have failed to catch the big fish, but there aren’t any. I spoke to the central agency and sought information in this regard. But they also don’t have any clue about any big fish active in the state,” said the DGP during his visit to the Commando Training Centre at Bahadurgarh near here.
 
 “Drugs were being pushed into the state by foreign nationals, who were operating small drug cartels from outside the state. Several arrests were made and the entire supply chain has been cut off. Now we have seized properties worth over Rs 225 crore,” he said.
 
 Arora said the anti-drug special task force (STF) was working 24x7 to further throttle the narcotics trade. Officers are also working in close association with the health department for rehabilitation of drug addicts, he said.
 
 Talking about some of the high-profile cases, which are yet to be cracked, the DGP admitted that there were delays in solving such cases. “Even the CBI has not yet solved the cases that were referred to it. But it does not mean that the Punjab Police and the CBI are not competent enough to dig out the truth. It only means that these crimes could have been committed by some new group, which is still eluding the police radar,” he said.
 
 Arora said after some terror modules were busted in various parts of the state, he had interacted with the arrested men. “I was surprised to note that while these men had no criminal past, they somehow got misled by anti-national forces, which exploited the social media to encash their religious sentiments,” he said, And he added, “The police are working out a strategy to immunise the youth against such influences. We will increase our presence on the social media to generate a strong public opinion against those operating from abroad to lure youth into terrorism.”
 
 
