Abhimanyu Singh, who has essayed several negative characters in Bollywood and south industries, comes across as a calm and composed person. CT caught up with the actor in Chennai, who was busy shooting for stunt sequences for the Karthi-starrer   (TAO). The actor who has done films with the likes of   and   in Tamil, talks about his experiences working in this cop flick, juggling between different industries and more...

 
 
 My role is a unique one – I play the main antagonist in the film — which is based on a real-life character that has different shades to it. The character I play is a hero to those who are my friends in it. Working in Theeran Adhigaram Ondru has been a great experience. In fact, it has been a learning experience for me altogether as I have done so many new things in the movie.
 
 
 
 TAO is based on a true incident — a case that was cracked by Chennai cops. The screenplay of the film is quite thrilling and unpredictable. The team has done quite a lot of research before scripting — it’s a perfect blend of commercial and artistic cinema. 
 
 
 
 I found Karthi to be a very grounded and honest actor to work with. He always tries to improvise and works towards the betterment of the film. He helps all his co-actors and makes them feel comfortable. 
 
 
 
 I was first approached by director M Raja for my first Tamil film Velayudham. Raja’s father was impressed by my work in Raktha Charitra and I was roped in to play the villain in it. I was signed for the film even before they saw me in person. I didn’t find any difference between the two industries as all I could see in myself was the passion for acting. I feel that Tamil filmmakers are good at creating strong and unique villain characters, which I was very much impressed with. It gives me an adrenaline rush.
 
 
 
 Working with Vijay has been a pleasing experience for me. Though he is not someone who speaks a lot on the set, I personally share a great rapport with him. He puts his hundred per cent in whatever he does. He is a big entertainer.
 
 
 
 I am currently shooting on the outskirts of Chennai. The most memorable moment for me was a horse riding scene. I didn’t know horse riding, and I have never done that before. While filming the scene, the horse took me and ran away for about three kms and I couldn’t control it. I was all alone with the horse in a desert for some time. Somehow I managed without tripping off and returned to the shooting spot. It was quite scary, but was exciting at the same time. By the end of the day, I was happy that I got acquainted with the horse and learnt horse riding, too
 
 
 
 I’m glad that I’m sharing screen space with Sridevi in the film. I play the main antagonist in this one, too. My character is someone who does anything for his friends. I play a Delhiite with a criminal background. 
 
 
 
 Working in different industries for different films is a little tiring, but worth it. You grow more as an actor and get familiar with many talented technicians, directors and actors. It is all about coming out of your comfort zone and delivering what you are destined for. All these things will definitely make one confident and popular. 
 
 
 
 I have quite a few good friends in the industry. Vikram, Vijay, Vijay Milton, Gopichand and Pawan Kalyan — all of them got along well with me. 
 
 
