BENGALURU: A day after rain wreaked havoc in some parts of the city, life limped back to normalcy on Thursday. Even as residents struggled to come to the terms with their  , filthy sumps --the fear of impending showers loomed large.

 Sapna Tony, a  , said though the water outside her house had been drained out by Wednesday evening, the weatherman's prediction of more rain on Thursday and Friday was worrisome. “Since morning, people have been pumping out rainwater and cleaning sumps. The road outside our homes has been severely damaged.“
 
 On the night of the downpour, residents of   woke up to a nightmare when a wall separating the enclave from a residential apartment collapsed, flooding two roads of the enclave. While they were asked by the MLA and BBMP officials to vacate their homes (even those on the first floor), it has been a rather difficult time for them.
 
 Velu P, a resident, said: “There hasn't been much  .We were asked to leave the enclave and have no idea when we will be able to return.“
 
 
 
 
 Two primary roads in Chickpet which connect the entire marketplace were rendered inaccessible. Festive sales have dropped as not many are willing to negotiate the roads, said traders. Sajjan Raj Mehta, trade activist, said, “The roads are dotted with potholes, and nothing is visible when it rains, resulting in a number of accidents.“
 
 
 
 Residents of Tony Villa Complex, Prestige Ozone, in Varthur Kodi are staring at an impending crisis. Water from the rajakaluve has begun flooding areas surrounding the residential complex.Although the water hasn't entered the locality yet, residents fear it may happen soon. “Water is already flowing into our compound and we are worried that just like everyone around the complex, we would also have to vacate our homes,“ said Iruvanti Padma, committee member of the complex.
 
 
 
 
 In HSR Layout too, residents are finding it difficult to cope with the rain aftermath. “Although there isn't any flooding, the roads are in a pretty bad shape. There are a few manholes from which water is flowing out,“ said Vasanthi Rajesh, a resident of Sector 3.
 
