CHENNAI: The state government's proposal to convert the   into a four-lane stretch, announced in the   on March 16, has gladdened both residents and shop owners. 

 Abdul Khader, an autorickshaw driver who lives in a neighbourhood located along the stretch, said it would be big boon for road-users if the highways department widened the stretch. "During early mornings and evenings, dozens of buses belonging to educational institutions virtually take over the entire stretch. There are a number of professional colleges on the stretch extending up to   and   and this has become a major hassle," he added. The stretch from Tambaram to Mudichur included a lot of dangerous curves and these should be straightened as part of the widening, he said.
 
 M Saravanan, a resident of  , said the road should be widened till Manivakkam and the large-scale encroachments should be removed immediately. "We are aware that those who encroached upon the land are mostly shop-keepers who will move the courts to get a stay, but authorities should ensure that the road is widened at the earliest. During weekends the traffic on this stretch is unbelievably chaotic."
 
 Widening of the road connecting Kancheepuram, Vandavasi and Vellore with the city had remained in cold storage for many years due to lack of funds and problems with land acquisition. Trucks carrying sand and bricks from Kancheepuram to construction sites in the city make it worse for road users, creating pot holes all along the stretch.
 
 Many residents complained that the authorities had not relaid the road for many years, while traffic police personnel said at least 15 accidents, some fatal, occurred each month along the numerous hairpain bends on the stretch. R Suresh, who commutes to his work place in Manivakkam from Chromepet, said he was forced to leave home by 7am to reach his work place by 8.30am due to the chaotic traffic. "Both sides are virtually taken over by buses of private colleges, slowing down the traffic," he said.
 
