NEW DELHI: The   slammed the Centre on Monday for not taking any decision to ban polluting fuels like furnace oil and pet coke in the NCR and directed it to chalk out a comprehensive plan in a month in consultation with governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana to tackle air pollution in the capital.

 Pointing out that an estimated eight people die every day in the capital due to pollution-related diseases, a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Prafulla C Pant said the governments should take immediate steps to deal with the situation. 
 
 It asked the Centre to hold consultations with the parties concerned to ban the polluting fuels used by industries and explore alternatives. The bench said sulphur content in furnace oil and pet coke is too high to be allowed to be used as fuel.
 
 As the pollution level in Delhi has reached alarming levels, the Environment Pollution Control and Prevention Authority (EPCA) has recommended to the Supreme Court to ban the polluting fuels. Although the   had declared then unacceptable fuel in the capital way back in 1996, they are not banned outside Delhi borders and are being increasingly used by industries in the NCR, contributing to the pollution levels in the city.
 
 Advocate Aprajita Singh, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, told the bench that quality of fuel played a critical role in quantum of pollution generated and sulphur level in furnace oil and pet coke was multiple times higher than in other acceptable fuels.
 
 “Samples of pet coke used in NCR contains sulphur level between 69,000 ppm to 74,000 ppm and the level of sulphur in furnace oil is between 15,000 to 20,000 ppm. It is higher in comparison to petrol/diesel with 50 ppm,” she said.
 
 The court asked Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar to ask the Centre to take a call on banning these fuels. It also suggested that a comprehensive plan should be prepared to control pollution level in the city as various authorities were having different plans and there was lack of a holistic approach. 
 
 It asked EPCA, Central Pollution Control Board, the ministry of environment and forests, Delhi and its neighbouring states to have a joint meeting to chalk out an acceptable comprehensive plan. 
 
 Pleading for blanket ban on polluting fuels, EPCA in its recommendation to SC said furnace oil, being the last grade produced by refineries is extremely polluting and pet coke, a by-product, is even more polluting.
 
 “There is no doubt that the use of such high sulphur fuel is greatly contributing to pollution in the region ... The use of furnace oil and pet coke should be strictly banned in NCR. Pet coke will be allowed only in cement plants, where combustion and emissions are controlled. However, if any cement plant requires the use of pet coke, it will have to seek permission from CPCB and EPCA,” it said.
 
 EPCA said its investigation had revealed that large quantities of furnace oil are sold in Delhi and NCR by oil companies and the sale has gone up this year with 30,000 metric tonnes being sold every month. 
 
 
