KOCHI: It is said that the game of football is not only about goals and victories, but is also about inspiration, style and struggle. On Monday, when players of  , formerly SBT, Thiruvananthapuram, strode out onto the pitch to take on   in the final of the 43rd State Club Football Championship at Nadakkavu Synthetic Ground, Trikarippur, Kasaragod, they knew they are in the midst of a struggle, a struggle for survival.

 They had an uphill task ahead of them, as the bankmen were pitted against a far superior Gokulam FC side, comprising former ISL and I-League players. But SBI players threw their heart and soul into the contest. And the result was a stunning 5-4 victory in a tie-breaker after scores were tied 2-2 against their highly fancied opponents.
 
 And it was their never-say-die attitude that saw them prevail over Gokulam. Former Kerala Blasters star   gave Gokulam an early lead through a penalty in the 9th minute while former   striker VP Suhair doubled their lead in the 42nd minute. But SBI came back strongly in the second half with   and Eldho scoring the goals in the 70th and 80th minute. And once match went into the tie-break, fortune favoured SBI.
 
 It was a much-needed victory for the SBI players as the team which had registered for the championship as SBT, Thiruvananthapuram had to change their name to SBI Kerala during the course of the tournament as all associate banks of SBI, including State Bank of Travancore, merged with their parent bank on April 1.
 
 With doubts still persisting over SBI top management's approach towards the sporting clubs run by SBT, Thiruvananthapuram, the title triumph at Trikarippur has given them renewed hope. "This win was essential for us as a team. We are fighting for our existence in Kerala football for the past one week and I'm glad that my boys showed a lot of grit," a relieved coach VP Shaji said.
 
 Though SBI Kerala are the present club champions of the state, their participation in the  , which started last Saturday, is not yet confirmed as the team is waiting for the approval from their head office in Mumbai. "We are hoping for a positive reply from our head office in Mumbai. I hope the tag of state champions will come in handy when we present our case before out superiors," said a player who was part of the winning team.
 
 Top-ranked officials of the SBI are likely to take a call on the future of the side soon but till then the players, as well as the passionate supporters of Kerala football, will have their fingers crossed.
 
 
