KOLKATA: A   four years from  , who spent three weeks in hospital after taking a bullet during a   on the day of the civic polls in 2015, has -by a strange quirk of fate -become the investigating officer of the most politically sensitive case in Bengal.

 Jagannath Mondal has always believed in destiny but even he could not envisage that at the fag end of his career, he would be summoning a singerturned-MP-turned-Union minister to appear before him. The last time he was in the news, he was being wheeled into an operating theatre while several ministers and IPS officers waited outside the hospital anxiously .
 
 Mondal is one of the 8,000odd faceless sub-inspectors in the ranks of Kolkata Police, but his life, or at least the last two years of his career, has been anything but commonplace.
 
 The latest twist of fate has placed Mondal in a rather sticky wicket of being the investigating officer in a case filed by Trinamool MLA Mahua Moit ra against Union minister Babul Supriyo. She has alleged that Supriyo used words and gestures to insult her modesty on a television show. On Tuesday , Mondal sent a notice to Supriyo under Section 41A of the CrPC (it empowers a cop to instruct an individual to appear before him if there is credible evidence against the accused) requesting him to appear before him on Thursday afternoon.
 
 Responsibility of such a high-profile case -with TMC and   at loggerheads -has made Mondal a talking point among his colleagues. On the day of civic polls in 2015, Mondal, then an SI of Girish Park police station, was shot at in the abdomen while trying to disperse a group that had attacked a political leader's house and regrouped for another strike.
 
 He underwent multiple surgeries over three weeks.Later, he was given the option to join the reserve force, which would have been less strenuous, but Mondal opted for police station duty and was assigned Alipore PS.
 
 “Jagannathda has been on several law and order duties in the past one year since joining this police station.He never shies away from tackling volatile situations.He keeps his cool and does not get influenced by what happened to him,“ said a colleague.
 
 When TOI contacted Mondal, he refused to comment on the Babul Supriyo case but his colleagues said he will play by the book. “He knows that he will be walking down a political trapeze and a single wrong move will result in a nasty fall. But Jagannathda, we know, will do the balancing act well,“ said another colleague.
 
 From collecting evidence to preparing the case diary to filing the chargesheet, an investigating officer looks into every aspect to help the justice system to deliver a fair verdict.
 
 But being an investigating officer can be a doubleedged sword as some cops in the past have found out. The sleuth in a land-grab case in Kolkata's upmarket Short Street landed in prison himself over allegations of malpractices.
 
