CHANDIGARH: On the last day of the budget session, Haryana chief minister   announced to order a probe into land controversies, including Gwal Pahari. Khattar made the annoucement as opposition Congress and INLD continued to blame the BJP government in the state while referring to the controversy allegedly due to the bureaucrat-politician-builder nexus.

 As arguments continued amid the chaos in the House, Congress and INLD MLAs staged a walkout when the state government did not accept their demand for CBI probe into the Gwal Pahari scam. The issue has been raised even by the Khattar’s own party MLAs. 
 
 Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal also endorsed the opposition’s allegations that the government was trying to shield the officers and politicians behind the controversy. He said Khattar did not reply specifically to the questions raised on the matter. To add to the state government’s embarrassment, cabinet minister Anil Vij too posted a tweet, favouring a CBI probe in the Gwal Pahari land row.
 
 On March 2, Congress   (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry and other MLAs had sought a call attention motion over the issue. “The land (in Gwal Pahari) belonging to municipal corporation of Gurugram was given to private persons, and instead of probing into the issue, facts are being concealed by the bureaucrats. Since the scam involves land worth more than Rs 4,000 crore, the state government, especially the chief minister, should come clean on this issue. The scam smacks of nexus among political leaders, bureaucrats and builders. Even the MLA of the ruling party has raised a question on this,” Choudhry stated in the assembly on Friday.
 
 She also named senior bureaucrat Yudhvir Malik and accused him of crossing his jurisdiction. She also questioned the CM, asking him to clarify as whether he or his office had issued directives related to the said issue.
 
 The dissidents initially kept mum on the Gwal Pahari issue, when the opposition leaders sorrounded the CM, they too endorsed the demand for a CBI probe into it.
 
 “The issue of Gwal Pahari land, which is almost three-decade old, involves property worth thousand crores of rupees and could be resolved with the intervention of the  . The Gwal Pahari land is a public property and would not be allowed to be transferred to private parties. No decision has been taken for change in the mutation of that land,” said Khattar.
 
 “We will not just get the Gwal Pahari incident probed, but all such issues. One thing is for sure that we will not harass the officials,” added Khattar.
 
 Jain, Bhukkal at it again
 
 Two days after the spat between urban local bodies minister Kavita Jain and former minister and Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal, the two were at loggerheads again on Friday. Both blamed each other for their conduct on International Women’s Day. “I had broken down after seeing the conduct of a woman towards another woman. Otherwise, I am strong enough to handle such issues,” said Jain. “I was also shocked to see a woman crying on International Women’s Day. What shocked me more was the way in which the House had brought a condemn motion against me,” Bhukkal retorted.
 
