He had graduated from drama school when he got his multi-million movie break in 2014. At 25, this British actor leapt to fame when he was picked by   to play the lead in 'Kingsman: The Secret Service'.   has always been on the move since then. And now that the second film in the series, ' ', releases in India today, Taron tells us about the transition of his character from the first film to the second and the fun he had on set with his American counterparts while shooting for the Bond-meets-Kickass film.

 
  
  
 
 The first film has Taron playing the can't-stay-out-of-trouble Eggsy, a baseball-cap-and-sneakers guy, while the second sees him settle into his 'gentleman spy' job in perfectly-tailored suits. Which Eggsy did Taron have more fun playing? "Playing Eggsy was fun in every situation. It was nice when I got back to the street gear (in the film), the baseball cap, or went back to scenes of my homeland or my friends. It's like he goes to his roots in London (the way he used to be) before he became this crazy superspy. But equally, I loved wearing suits and do the superhero, superspy sort of things. That's what I liked in the first film. Eggsy almost played two characters there," says the actor. But in real life, he does admit he wears a baseball cap "an awful lot."
 
 The film has some fun with taking British and American cultural stereotypes to extremes, where the gentlemanliness of the British Kingsman agents is hilariously contrasted with the much informal American agency Statesman. But once the camera stopped rolling, Taron says that "There's not that amount of a difference really. All the British actors have spent quite a lot of time in America and vice-versa. The culture clash shown in the film is pretty superficial."
 
  Superficial allright, but what is it with British spies and sharp suits? Since the spy films of old, it has been their 'uniform', hasn't it? Taron replies, "Ah, I guess. Yes, I think, yes, I think so! It’s more like the film pays homage to other spy films, the James Bonds and films similar to them, and basically draws inspiration from that genre. And yes, I agree that the Kingsman spies have their specific 'uniform'. The double-breasted suits, the striped tie - it's like a superhero costume, something recognizable and symbolic. In the film, the suit is like armour, it’s protected too.” So how many suits did he destroy while filming those crazy stunts? "Ah well, the suits, they did get scuffed up (laughs). We had so many suits for one scene. We had like 15 versions of the same suit for different things. Some of them had holes for the ropes, some of them had extra rooms for the arms. But they did get very dirty when we were being thrown into the ground, but you know, that's what they're made for," he replies.
 
 
  
  Taron Egerton
 
 His first big movie had   for a co-star, and the sequel adds biggies like Julianne Moore, Elton John, Jeff Bridges and  . Was it intimidating? "I think yes. To a certain extent, it was intimidating. The personality I carry is that I'm not, umm, not turbulent, I’m pleasant. So it’s been quite manning so far. But in this film, I just feel very, very lucky to work with people of that calibre. Halle and Julianne are enormous stars so there was some intimidation there, but apart from being brilliant actors, they are such sweet and lovely people. Kingsman has been a very sudden and a quick platform. I also absolutely love the work I’m involved in, I love travelling, seeing the world and I just hope it continues for years to come," Taron signs off. 
 
 -- Shambhavi.Modgill@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
