For The Dwindling Community of   Living In Pune, Their Ways Of A Quaint World Help Them Live, Love & Laugh Together.

 In a rose-tinted photograph that   pulls out of an old album at his Wa nowrie home, women in dresses and pantsuits, their hair typical of the Sixties are jiving with bell-bottomed blokes with long sideburns. An old gramophone peeks out from the corner, presumably playing Engelbert Humperdinck or Cliff Richard.
 
 One rarely meets Anglo-In dians of this ilk anymore in Pune where this feisty community is fast dwindling result of mixed marriages and emigration. TOI revisited the few that remain, estimated at around 1200, and their quaint ways of life -jitterbug jigs and pound parties, ginger wine and ball curry ,   -some of them mere reminiscences for this mixed breed of British and Indian descent rooted in the country's colonial past.
 
 “You can sum us up in one word, `fun-loving'. Our lives were and still is about work, a few laughs and dance nights,“ says Byrd, 68, a retired accountant who teaches English to foreigners in Pune. “It's our mother tongue and we have good command over it.“ Something that held the community in good stead and fetched them teaching and secretarial jobs in post-Independent India.
 
 Even as the sun set on  , Anglo-Indians with their mix of customs and complexions remained caught in its own challenges. “Until the 40s, there was a colour di vide among us too ­ darkies and fairies,“ remembers BW Roberts, 88, who belonged to the first batch of college-going Anglo-Indians in free India and former principal of the 153year-old Bishop's School, a minority-run Anglo-Indian School in the lush green cantonment area of Pune that has been the scene for all their community celebrations ­ Tambola, May Queen Ball, barbeque and Elvis impersonator nights. The easy-going Anglo-Indi an loved his peg and his party.
 
 Doing the waltz, jive and foxtrot came easy to their nimble toes especially at pound parties, a potluck gathering where everyone brought a pound of chops, chips and cutlets for sharing. 
 
 It was common to find strains of Jim Reeves, Tony Bennett and Elvis Presley wafting around areas like Fatimanagar, Wanowrie, Kondhwa, Camp, Kalyani Nagar and Khadki which housed most of Pune's Anglo Indians. “The gramophone was usually our first indulgent buy ,“ says Byrd. Not surprising that most of Pune's original rock-n-rollers were “bugger“ and “men“ spouting Anglo-Indians. “We had an inherent ear for music. 
 
 There was always music and guitars in the house with people breaking into impromptu jams. My dad too was a musician,“ says Chris Fonseca, a guitarist with some of the country's top bands. Football, basketball and athletics were Anglo-Indian sports staples.Not so much now. “Perhaps because children are so busy with academics,“ Roberts reasons.
 
 Their love for the good life involved good food even as the beef ban in Maharashtra hurt their palate. Food habits they cultivated could be hard to define but not for an Anglo-Indian. “A bit of this and a bit of that -essentially European food with Indian flavours,“ explains Victoria Robins. The names often explain the confluence 'jalfrezi', a curry to use up leftover roast lamb or beef; 'Mulligatawny', a rich soup with black pepper; 'salt meat', a big lump of beef marinated in salt and lime for weeks; and the yellow rice and ball curry , a must at Sunday lunch.
 
 But whether one was lunching with friends or family , dining etiquette was essential.There was no getting the cutlery wrong. “Our parents made sure we came to the dining table properly dressed, not in nighties. Tables had to be laid with fork, knives and serviette.No elbows on the table, no talking while eating and waiting till everyone finished,“ recalls Venetia, a school teacher comfortable in her salwar kurta unlike the 1920s to the 70s when women wore fluffy skirts and dresses in lace and taffeta. “Gradually we adopted the attire of the region. But on Christmas and New Year's Eve, the older ladies still dress up in gowns with their hair in ringlets.“
 
 Beer and Beatles-loving  , 78, is the oldest serving Anglo-Indian nurse in Pune. “Seventy-five per cent of Pune's nurses in the 60s were Anglo-Indians. Now, barely ,“ she rues.
 
 The community may be in the twilight zone but Darryl Pounde, of Pune's Anglo-Indian Association refutes it.“We're spread far and wide but people often return to connect with their roots because without India there would be no Anglo-Indians,“ he says.
 
