NEW DELHI: On September 30, around 100 days before he orchestrated a bloodbath, 38-year-old   Matta had uploaded a picture status on Facebook. It read: “Dear haters, I have so much more for you to be mad at. Just be patient.” The hatred he displayed on Sunday matched what he had posted on the social networking site.

 Rahul’s Facebook profile gives an insight into his dangerous mind. It shows he studied at “University of life” and that was what he snuffed out of his   on Sunday.
 
 He also “got married” last year on September 10, when he updated his relationship status. Ironically, his father,   Matta, ‘liked’ it. Relatives, however, said on Sunday that he was unmarried. They recalled an incident when he had brought a woman home a few months ago claiming he would marry her.
 
 The pictures he uploaded on his social networking profile and his status messages talked about enemies, hatred, jealousies and lies.
 
 The hatred with which Rahul confronted the policemen and hurled abuses at them also reflects in his status messages. On November 5, 2016, Rahul’s status read: “Cops n judges r parasites incubating terrorism, crime for salary, benefits, power, control... pension (sic).” He often posted online articles about wrongful conviction, US inmates on death row and how wrong prosecution can ruin someone’s life.
 
 For resident of Ajanta apartments, Rahul was always a weird man. “He would often wear his uniform and roam around the colony. At times, he would hoist flags and sing the national anthem in the middle of the colony,” said a neighbour.
 
 Life was always a rollercoaster ride for Rahul. He had a successful career working in the merchant navy in Canada before he got embroiled in a molestation case. Subsequently, he was sacked and jailed, said his relatives.
 
 However, he clearly did not learn a lesson from this when he returned to India two years ago and began to live with his mother. Neighbours said he was arrested by Delhi Police for harassing a woman. His father evicting him from the house and getting it published in a newspaper left him seething in anger.
 
 Mental health experts told TOI that such people create a world of illusion around them and when this gets disturbed, they react. At times, the reaction may be as explosive as what Rahul displayed.
 
 For example, Rahul’s Facebook timeline photo album is titled: “Rahul with Carlos Slim, richest man alive.” Doctors said that Rahul, who lived with his parents till a fortnight ago, may have experienced a major cash crunch after being ousted from home and lost his mind in rage. His “favourite quote” on his profile is a dialogue from Salman Khan starrer ‘Sultan’: “Maine pehlwani jaroor chhodi hai, par ladna nahi bhoola (I may have quit wrestling, but I haven’t forgotten how to fight).”
 
 The day he had updated the status talking about giving people more reasons to hate, he had uploaded another picture that read: “Make your parents proud, your enemies jealous and yourself happy.” The police are planning to approach psychiatrists for counselling him.
 
