Visakhapatnam: The   derailment in Kuneru falling under the Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) is the biggest rail mishap of the zone since its inception on April 1, 2003.

 ECoR’s jurisdiction spreads over three states of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. 
 
 Until the accident, the biggest mishap in ECoR was the Coromandel Express’s (Howrah-Chennai)   near Jaipur road in Odisha in February 2009. As many as 14 coaches of the train derailed in the accident, killing 15 passengers on the spot. 
 
 In the Hirakhand Express mishap, 39 passengers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh died and more than 50 passengers were injured when nine coaches and the loco derailed near a level-crossing in Kuneru village. 
 
 According to ECoR railway officials, a total 18 such derailments occurred in the history of the railway zone from April 2014 till date including eight in Vizag-based Waltair division.
 
 A senior railway official from the ECoR wing said, “Most of the derailments occurred due to various reasons including Maoist attack, particularly in the case of the Waltair division where more than 70% of the derailments occurred in isolated places like the Kotthavalasa-Kirandul railway line. The fault of the railway staff is minimal.”
 
 However, when TOI visited the Rammurthipanthulapeta Railway Gate at Kancharapalem on Monday, it found fish-plates missing from the track on the Chennai-Howrah Main Railway Line. The dismantled fish-plates were found lying nearly two feet away from the railway track. A fish-plate joins two rail logs. Each rail log is 13 metres of length. 
 
 When TOI brought the fish-plate issue to the notice of the railway officials at Waltair division, an official admitted, “If the fish-plate is not fixed at the joint, it should be taken seriously. Fish-plates can prevent the intensity of the mishaps in case the joint gets damaged.”
 
 A resident of Kancharapalem said, “If the railways are not able to maintain the tracks within the city limits, how can they do it in isolated places and forest cover like the KK line.”
 
 
