Observing that it is prima facie "probably a contract killing" as he "nurtured a grudge and had mentioned in a diary of wanting to eliminate her", the   on Thursday rejected a bail plea filed by artist   in the case of double murder of his artist wife Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani.

 "It is a contract probably given by applicant (Chintan) to Vidyadhar Rajbhar," said Justice Sadhana Jadhav after prosecutor Veera Shinde strongly opposed the bail plea saying it was a case of criminal conspiracy hatched in Chembur. The court observed that there are prima facie "independent evidence against the applicant". For instance, a statement of absconding accused Vidyadhar’s mother and those of the domestic staffer Lalit Mandal and Hema’s colleague. "Going by the conduct of the applicant before and after the incident, this court feels that it is not a fit case to grant bail at this stage."
 
 The arguments made by Chintan’s counsel Raja Thakare that there was no direct evidence against the artist and that the confession of co-accused was ‘weak evidence’ failed to impress the judge. "Matrimonial dispute cannot be a motive because the judgment of the family court was in Chintan’s favour," Thakare argued. Justice Jadhav asked him not to argue on the motive of the case at this stage. 
 
 Justice Jadhav also said that Vidhyadhar is "known to both Hema and Chintan" and was aware of their dispute. 
 
 On December 12, 2015, the bodies of Hema and Bhambani were found in a Kandivli drain. The bodies were wrapped in plastic sheets and stuffed in cardboard boxes. Later the police arrested Chintan and two others.
 
 Thakare argued, "The case is based on circumstantial evidence and that the confession of co-accused is weakest type of evidence which was belatedly recorded and retracted too.’’ 
 
 He said the call data records shows that the mobile phone locations of those alleged to be present at the conspiracy meeting in Chembur was instead at Kandivli. Hence the conspiracy allegations do not stand fortified." Besides, he added, the extrajudicial confession of Vidyadhar to his mother cannot be considered at this stage as he is not arrested and his confession that he had executed the killing at his (Chintan’s) behest is "hard to believe".
 
 Shinde said that Mandal’s statement of Chintan calling him after the murder and asking about Hema’s whereabouts and also calling Bhambani’s daughter point to his involvement. 
 
 When the court asked Chintan’s lawyer about the call made to Bhambani’s house and how could he have known Hema was with her lawyer, the defence said it was Mandal who said so. But the prosecutor said his statement makes no mention of that. 
 
 She said there was a colleague to whom Hema had confided her apprehensions and a diary that showed pictures by Chintan and his handwritten statement that he would "destroy" her. The judge recorded this argument. The court also rapped the cops and asked the police why it had not issued any proclamation against Vidyadhar yet. 
 
 
