RANCHI: The   is all set to start post office   in 13 districts of the state in different phases.

 The districts where post office sewa kendra will be opened are Dhanbad, Chailbasa, Dumka, Giridih, Ramgarh, Gumla, Bokaro, Deoghar among others.
 
 The objective is to ease the burden of the Regional   Office (RPO), Ranchi which receives more than 500 applications every day from across the state. 
 
 It will be easier for people living in these districts to apply for passports, as the new offices will start in the head offices of the postal department. 
 
 “It is a year of smart citizen service delivery. We will start the post office   and Deoghar on March 19 and March 25 respectively, followed by other districts of the state," informed chief postmaster-general of Jharkhand Postal Circle, Anil Kumar.
 
 He further added the postal department in HOs of selected districts will start processing passport applications, thereby reducing the workload of RPO which is grappling with pending applications. 
 
 The first Regional Passport office was started in the state capital in 2002 while residents who used to travel all the way from various districts of the state to apply for passports had to re-visit to seek information but due to large volume of applications pending, they were asked to report after few days.
 
 " You will no longer find people standing in a long queue to apply for passports. Jharkhand postal circle has inked MoU with Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for starting passport sewa office in the state few days ago," CPMG said.
 
 Kumar added that the external affairs ministry which issues passports are making all necessary preparations to initiate this scheme across the selected cities of India. “We are lucky that two cities in our state have been selected, to start the passport sewa kendras in the first phase," he said
 
 Regional Passport Officer Sanatan said , “The present scheme of MEA is to extend help to citizens residing in far flung areas, away from the RPO office. It will be convenient for residents of the state."
 
 
