AHMEDABAD: The state government may have enacted a new law to cap school fees charged by private schools but it is unlikely that the new fee structure will be finalised before June.

 The state has over 15,000 private schools affiliated to various boards, including Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB),   ( ), Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and International Baccalaureate (IB). 
 
 Out of these schools, nearly 9,000 are charging fees lower than the limit introduced by the state government and the rest 6,000 are yet to decide on their fee structure according to the new bill.
 
  in the state believe that framing of rules and regulations under the Gujarat Self-Financed School (Regulation of Fees) Act-2017 will take at least three to four months. The reason is that the state education department is yet to take any step to constitute a fee regulatory committee propsed by the new law. The rules and regulations can be drawn up only after the regulatory committee has been costituted. 
 
 Moreover, the education department has to conduct a hearing for all the 6,000 schools which are yet to decide the fee structure. 
 
 The state government has to scrutinize the bank accounts of the school managements and the statements of their chartered accountants to ascertain the exact fee amount being charged by them. The state education department also has to conduct scrutiny in four zones including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat. All these tasks cannot be completed in three to four months. Hence, it is unlikely that the new fee structure will be enforced in all schools before June, the observers said.
 
 Gujarat seventh state to have fee cap law
 
 Ahmedabad: After Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra, Gujarat is the seventh state to introduce a law putting a limit on the fees that private schools can charge from students.
 
 The Union government and the Uttar Pradesh state government are likely to introduce Gujarat-like fee cap rules at the Centre and in UP. On Friday, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasma said that the Centre and the UP government had sought a copy of the draft bill of the Gujarat Self-Financed School (Regulation of Fees) Act-2017 as they wanted to consider it for implementation. “We will also send the rules and regulations once they are finalized here,” Chudasma said.
 
 Chudasma said officials of the state education department officials were sent to all those states where a similar law was in force. They were asked to study their bills and the ground situation after their implementation. “This had equipped the state government to come up with an effective bill,” Chudasama said.
 
 
