AMRITSAR: Despite ten years of anti-incumbency staring at him, SAD supremo   is not unnerved as he hops off his chopper near Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar. He is minutes away from his first joint address with BJP leader and Union finance minister  .

 The setting is a throwback to 2014 Lok Sabha elections when the two campaigned heavily here and SAD barely maintained the previous tally of four out of 10 seats they contested.But this time, the man who once represented   seat,  , is debuting on a Congress ticket as an MLA aspirant and is no longer in their camp.
 
 Before Jatiley's arrival, Sukhbir parries queries from TV reporters on drug patronage, mining mafia, AAP's growing popularity in the Badal bastions and challenge from Captain Amarinder against his father, Punjab CM  . “If Air India is in losses and Jet is in profit, government television channels are in losses and private entertainment channels are making profits, I can't be held responsible. If state-owned companies run in losses, there can be various reasons," says Sukhbir.
 
 “As far as Sidhu is concerned, he had first said BJP is mother, then he flirted with AAP. The man who's changing his parents so frequently needs to tell us how many mothers and fathers he has. He has been absent from this place for seven months and must answer these questions,“ insists Sukhbir.
 
 He dismisses AAP's charge of collusion between Amarinder and his family. “What family ties? It was just a few wedding or events we attended. And Amarinder is lying if he says he sent me diet cola whenhe jailed us."
 
 The SAD says he doesn't even want to spend time in his own constituency ­Jalalabad ­ as he is confident of winning it.This despite the fact that he is facing a challenge from AAP's star campaigner Bhagwant Mann. “It's AAP's Jarnail (Singh) and Bhagwant who are spending more time in Lambi and Jalalabad. Besides, they are agenda-less people. They just keep telling people that they want to put us behind bars, but not what they want to develop in Punjab,“ he points out and looks at his brother-in-law Bikram Majithia.
 
 As the clock ticks 5:30 pm, Sukhbir, who is a Z-plus protectee, leaves in an SUV with a cavalcade of nearly 32 cars. “Jalandhar and Doaba tomorrow," he says, making a victory sign.
 
