BHUBANESWAR: The   (EOW) of the   is pinning its hopes on   chief   to identify those investors who have been genuinely duped in   so that they could get compensation from the state government. 

 The EOW, which on Wednesday took Kundu on four more days of remand, said he assured to furnish a list of around 4 lakh investors in Odisha within a week.
 
  On May 6, the EOW had taken Kundu on a four-day remand, which has now been extended to another four days. 
 
 The company is accused of cheating investors of nearly Rs 17,000 crore across the country, with the volume of fraud in Odisha around Rs 500 crore. While the CBI is currently probing one of the 25 cases registered against Rose Valley in the state, the EOW has been investigating the remaining cases. 
 
 "We will further interrogate Kundu in our custody and get details about the investors. Later, physical verification of the genuine investors will be made by the revenue and police officials in the districts. Kundu told us that he has already asked his chartered accountant to prepare a list of duped depositors in Odisha. This will expedite the restitution process," special director general (crime) B K Sharma told TOI. 
 
 The EOW said it already has possession of Rose Valley properties, worth over Rs 78.18 crore, including Rs 55 crore in bank deposits. "Once the genuine investors are identified, the government can disburse around Rs 10,000 each to at least 78000 of those duped," another officer said. 
 
 The identification of genuine investors of Rose Valley and other chit fund companies has been in limbo ever since the state government started the process in July-August 2013. 
 
 A judicial commission was especially set up to identify the investors. Official sources said the commission has so far identified nearly 21,000 Rose Valley depositors. But restitution of money is yet to start though the government had announced a Rs 300 crore corpus for the purpose in July 2013.
 
 Besides, the state government has been facing difficulty in auctioning the assets of chit fund companies, including Rose Valley's due to poor participation of bidders. Sources said three small chit fund companies have so far voluntarily returned money to the tune of nearly Rs 2 crore to about 10,000 people in the state. 
 
 
