BENGALURU: One of the creations of Sir M Visvesvaraya-the Century Club in the heart of   will turn 100 on January 31 this year. He founded the club in 1917 as a centre for learning and leisure for bureaucrats and government officers. But very little is known about this heritage centres of Bengaluru and perhaps a drawback of the story of this city.

 It was   who granted seven and a half acres to Sir  , the then Diwan of the princely state of Mysore to build a place to strengthen social networking. After him, four Diwans of Mysore state M Kantharaj Urs, Albio Banerji, Pradhana Siromani were presidents of the club and Diwan of Travancore M A Srinivasan was the president in 1952.
 
 Although it has shrunk to nearly five acres, the club still boasts of two lush tennis courts and a badminton court, a swimming pool and table tennis court for sporting activities. Century Club's library named after after Seshdri Iyer, the Diwan of the princely state of Mysore who was succeeded by Vivesvaraya is one worth the mention. It has rich collection of English and Kannada literature and lexicographer G Venkatasubbaiah and Bharat Ratna CNR Rao who are also members of the club.
 
 It has about 6400 members currently. Some of the other eminent members include Professor U R Rao, actors Ambareesh and Bharati Vishnuvardhan, sportspersons including  ,   and   among others. The royal family members including the new Maharaja Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar are patron members of the club.
 
 The club added another peacock feather to its hat in 2016, when it voted a woman for the first time in the history of social clubs in Bengaluru or Karnataka. Shobha Neelakantappa, a member for 28 years will be presiding the events in the centenary celebrations. "It is the first club that has always allowed independent women to be members and vote as well. We also have four women in the executive committee of the club who take up many works like creating awareness on women's rights, conducting lectures in schools and the club on issues and screening for cancer etc," she said.
 
 The centenary celebrations kick starts from Saturday, January 28 till Tuesday and will showcase the culture of the royal family. On Saturday, the fashion show is the main event which showcases the wardrobes of the Wadiyars, that still inspires the fashion industry. And the Sunday evening will see the melodious all-women Pancha Veena players along with dance recitals. This team from Shimoga headed by musician Vijaya Lakshmi are among the few who still play the instrument, which was played in the times of the royal family.
 
