KOCHI: Almost 12% of the 29,988 students who were admitted in the   in the state in 2015-16, were given ‘year out’ in the first year, according to statistics. Being thus unable to attend classes for a year, nearly 452 of the students took TC and, if the private managements are to be believed, majority have taken admission in second year BTech courses in private engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.

 The newly-constituted APJ   Technological University ( ), under which all the engineering colleges in Kerala come, had started admitting students from academic year 2015.
 
 And this could be the tip of the iceberg as private engineering colleges claim that many more students would have taken TC, however, they are forced to stay back as the private colleges struggling to get students ask them to pay liquidated damages (in other words students will have to pay the tuition fees for the full course even if they leave midway). This is as per agreement between the state government and private engineering managements.
 
 Worried that this will further affect admissions next year, Kerala Self Financing Engineering College Management’s Association has submitted a request to KTU officials to do away with ‘year out’ system in the first year and introduce it from second year. Besides, a request to reduce the number of credits has also been submitted.
 
 “There has been no response from KTU officials. I will again raise the issue in the board of governors meeting this month. We need to bring in changes to ensure that we don’t loose engineering students to private colleges in other states,” said former president of the association K Sasikumar.
 
 Data accessed from KTU states that in the academic year 2015-16, private engineering colleges admitted 29,988 in first year BTech. Of these, 3,806 students got ‘year out’ and 529 took TC from the private engineering college after first year.
 
 Sources said that in each private college, on an average, about five students drop out after the first year. The majority of them drop out because they got ‘year out’.
 
 “Since school exams are liberal, many students are unable to handle the sudden pressure to perform and score in BTech. The first semester exam is conducted in November, just three months after they join the course. Ideally, first and second semester exams should be conducted together to give students some time to prepare,” said Jory Mathai, president of the association.
 
 Meanwhile, the KTU students are also required to get 45% marks in individual papers to pass the exam. Also, the syllabus has increased from four modules to six and emphasis on practical has reduced.
 
 “The plus point with KTU so far was that they declared the results soon after the exams. But that’s not the case now,” added Mathai. However, KTU dean (academics) S Sreekumar said, “We strictly follow the university regulation. If there is any change in regulation, then the same will be announced through our website”.
 
 
