PUNE: The Bombay high court has directed an interim stay on the no-objection certificate ( ) issued on January 12, 2016 by the Air Headquarters, Ministry of Defence (MoD) to the   (SRA), Pune, for a housing project being developed by a prominent realtor allegedly within 100m from the crest of the outer parapet of the Lohegaon Air Force station. 

 The buildings have raised security concerns because of their closeness to the Air Force station. “The NOC was granted barely 10 days after the terror attack on IAF’s Pathankot air base,” Vimannagar resident   said.
 
 Surapaneni and former IAF warrant officer Shankarrao G Shinde had filed a petition in the high court last year. The petitioners claimed, among other things, that the NOC was issued in violation of MoD’s own notification (SRO-12) published on March 3, 2007 and other MoD circulars prohibiting constructions within 100m from the crest of outer parapet of Air Force station. They claimed the NOC was issued without seeking recommendations from Air Force station, Lohegaon, and the headquarters of the  .
 
 Admitting the petition, the high court bench of justices A S Oka and A K Menon, in an order on April 25, observed, “Prima facie, it appears to us that the impugned (under challenge) NOC is illegal as the Union of India (MoD) is not able to justify the grant of NOC based on any specific statutory provision.”
 
 In justification of the NOC, the counsel for MoD had cited provisions under Section 9A of the Aircraft Act, 1934; IAF procedure for issue of NoC for construction of aerodromes; the rules relating to regulation of building and development activities in the vicinity of aerodromes and air force stations; and the ministry of civil aviation (height and restriction for safeguarding of aircraft operation) Rules, 2015. 
 
 The bench observed that none of these provisions empowered the MoD to issue the NOC. More so, when the issue was of air safety and safety of defence operations. 
 
 The bench said, the SRA could not have applied on August 7, 2015 for an NOC under the civil aviation ministry’s rules of 2015 which were notified and published on September 30, 2015. 
 
 The bench, however, clarified, “We have made no adjudication on the issue whether the project of SRA undertaken by the respondent no. 9 (developer) can be implemented without grant of any such NOC. All contentions of the parties on merits are kept open. If there is any statutory provision under which such NOC is required and such NOC can be issued, notwithstanding grant of interim relief, it will be open for the respondent nos 7 (SRA) and 9 (developer) to apply such NOC to the competent authority. It will be open for the competent authority to decide the application for NOC which may be made by the respondent nos 7 and 9 in accordance with law.”
 
 Surapaneni said, “For now, the HC’s interim stay means the realtor cannot proceed with the construction work till a fresh NOC is obtained.”
 
