NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   on Tuesday paid surprise visits to two Delhi government-run hospitals and took stock of the situation there, officials said.

 Health minister Satyendar Jain and senior officials of the health department accompanied the CM during the inspection at Lok Nayak Hospital and  . 
 
 The CM summoned the director of GB Pant Hospital to his office after learning about a shortage of some medicines, officials added. Kejriwal interacted with people lined up to get medicines at both the facilities and asked them whether they were getting all the prescribed drugs. “Some medicines were unavailable at the GB Pant Hospital. The chief minister himself checked the records...on learning about the shortage of some medicines, he summoned the director of GB Pant Hospital immediately to his office at the Delhi Secretariat,” the government said in a statement.
 
 At the Lok Nayak Hospital, the patients told Kejriwal that they were getting the medicines prescribed at the hospital counter. “However, the CM told the medical superintendent/director of both the hospitals to ensure the waiting time at the medicine counter is cut short as much as possible,” the statement said.
 
 On the need for more pharmacists at hospitals, Kejriwal said he will appeal to the lieutenant governor to give a nod for hiring pharmacists. “Increasing the number of pharmacists will make the queues at the hospital shorter, and save the time and energy of the patients and their attendants,” the Delhi government said.
 
 On May 25, Kejriwal had paid a   to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital in north Delhi’s Mangolpuri area and expressed his displeasure over the policy of ‘free medicine and diagnostic tests’ “not being properly implemented” there.
 
 A few days after that visit, the medical superintendent of the hospital was replaced. Kejriwal and Jain had also paid a visit to the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital at Dilshad Garden on May 30, and interacted with patients and their family members.
 
 On June 2, Kejriwal and the health minister had inspected several wards of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar. He had also inspected Maharishi Valmiki Hospital in the Bawana area On June 16.
 
 
