VISAKHAPATNAM: Elections for the   (VBA) is to be held on April 7, but despite Vizag having the largest  , VBA did not have a woman lawyer as its president after 1993. Also, Vizag still does not have a  , which is one of the major demands of city lawyers.

 It was in 1993 that P Uma Bala was elected as the president of VBA. But in the last 23 years, though women had contested for the coveted VBA post, none were elected. VBA has a long legacy of women advocates since the 1950s. Vizag district has around 800 women lawyers (both practising and non-practising), the highest number in the state. But surprisingly none were considered qualified enough to head the VBA.
 
 A senior lady advocate, who did not want to be named, said, “It is gender discrimination and women advocates will not be allowed to head the VBA. She will eventually be voted out in the elections.” Another senior lady advocate said, “May be the ladies who contest are not capable enough, so they could not win.”
 
 This year, the candidates for the president’s post include B Ramakrishna, a public prosecutor, and P Balakrishna, who was an assistant government pleader. For the post of vice-president there is however a lady advocate by name Uma Rani contesting besides Madhava Rao while advocates IM Ahmed, J Satyasaibaba and K Jagdishwar Rao are contesting for the post of VBA general secretary. The current VBA president NV Suman’s term will get over on March 31. 
 
 President of Forum of Legal Professionals Kuppili Muralidhar, who has opted out of the elections this time, said, “The junior advocates including non-practising ones are going to play a crucial role in deciding the fate of the contestants. Around 1,800 advocates are expected to cast their votes and more than 50 per cent of them comprise junior advocates, who enrol as bar members by paying a paltry subscription fee. Even if they don’t have much experience or understanding about the unresolved issues affecting Vizag court and VBA or about the deserving candidates, their votes would be vital in the election. ”
 
 One of the main unresolved issues include High Court Bench for port city. Also, despite sanction of Rs 30 crore, the criminal court complex has not been constructed for the past four years. Some key vacancies in the courts are also to be filled up.
 
