LUCKNOW: In a sudden move,   chief   expelled close aide and general secretary   and his son Afzal on Wednesday for “anti-party activities”. Siddiqui was the party’s Muslim face and in charge of west UP during the assembly elections.

 BSP’s Satish Chandra Mishra said Siddiqui was accused of extorting money from party workers and setting up illegal slaughterhouses in west UP.
 
 Siddiqui, also the leader of the party in the legislative council and a powerful BSP manager, was also charged with having amassed illegal wealth when he was cabinet minister in the BSP government, Mishra added. He denied the charges, countering them with the claim that he faced harassment from Mayawati, her brother  , and Mishra. He said he would prove similar charges against Mayawati. Siddiqui also accused the BSP chief of criticising upper castes, backwards and Muslims after BSP’s defeat in the UP polls. “Two generations of my family have served the party. This is highly unfortunate,” he added.
 
 Siddiqui controlled the party’s organisational structure. Mayawati had appointed him as her representative in announcing tickets to candidates during UP polls. He was also instrumental in orchestrating defections from SP and Congress in favour of the BSP. Not surprisingly, Siddiqui’s expulsion triggered a spate of resignations from party workers. Within an hour of his expulsion, former BSP MP Salim Ansari, former MLC and member of party’s Kshatriya brotherhood committee Pradeep Singh, former MLA Irshad Khan and Lucknow division secretary Laxman Bharti resigned from the party’s primary membership.
 
 Sources said more BSP functionaries are likely to resign in protest. Party sources said the decision to expel Siddiqui was taken in the aftermath of BSP’s poor performance in UP elections. Mayawati had relied on Siddiqui while giving nearly 100 tickets to Muslim candidates in assembly elections as part of her Dalit-Muslim consolidation plan to take on the  . But only five Muslim candidates won, leaving Mayawati red-faced.
 
 
