BATHINDA: On the occasion of their 86th martyrdom day, tributes were paid to Bhagat Singh, Raujguru and Sukhdev in Pakistan on Thursday. Followers of   went to his village Chak Bangay (Chak 105) in   district to remember the revolutionary.

 Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were hanged in Lahore central jail on March 23, 1931. Not fearing the threats of religious groups, people in large numbers descended at Shadman Chowk in Lahore, which came up in post-colonial era at the site of the jail, to pay tributes to the trio.
 
 Hundreds of others landed at the birthplace of Bhagat Singh and remembered the supreme sacrifices made by him and his comrades in the pre-partition India. Revolutionary songs were sung by Aslam Lohar and Sanwal Dhillon at Chak Bangay.
 
 Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation, which had earlier approached Lahore high court this week for directing the police to provide security to those who want to observe martyrdom day of the revolutionary at Shadman Chowk, organised the commemoration day.
 
 Foundation’s chief patron and Pakistan’s   lawyer Abdul Rashid Qureshi and his son Imtiaz Rashid Qureshi termed Bhagat Singh not only a martyr of India but of the whole Indian sub-continent. 
 
 “We too have the same right over the memory of Bhagat Singh as that of his admirers in India. He made the supreme sacrifice when we were not divided on social, religious lines or political lines. We see him as an idol of selfless living and nobody has the right to snatch our rich heritage,” said Abdul.
 
 Imtiaz told TOI over phone from Lahore that they wanted Bhagat Singh to be treated as freedom fighter in Pakistan and for that Shadman Chowk should be named after him. He said founder of Pakistan Quaid-e-Azam had paid tributes to Bhagat Singh in Delhi assembly on September 4, 1929 and the revolutionary was a hero to many Pakistanis.
 
 He told that Bhagat Singh’s nephew Hakumat Malhi, who lives in Canada and other relatives of the martyr living in India, addressed his admirers in Pakistan over telephone.
 
 Cultural NGOs Punjab Lok Sujag, Kuknas and Punjabi Wave and members of civil society assembled at Bhagat Singh’s birth place, which has been refurbished by the provincial government and remembered their hero. “Admirers of the martyr also visited the government school at Chak 105 where Bhagat Singh studied,” said Punjab Lok Sujag coordinator of Faisalabad Tauheed Chatha.
 
 
