AURANGABAD: The issue of alleged diversion of water from dams in upstream areas of Jayakwadi major   and non-operational of gates on water weirs has now reached the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) following alleged inaction on the part of Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC).

 Alleging that the irrigation department authorities have no intent to put a check on water theft in upstream areas, water activists said that they have high hopes from MWRRA as it underwent an overhaul recently. 
 
 In a memorandum submitted to the water   on Saturday, advocacy groups have highlighted that the illegal diversion of monsoon flows in Ahmednagar and Nashik districts and non-discharge of water into Jayakwadi was a violation of orders from high court and MWRRA.
 
 ”The Ozar weir for instance has been witnessing a release of water at a speed of 703 cusec from left bank canal system and a separate discharge of 249 cusec from right bank canal system. Also, gates of a total 16 and 14 water-weirs built on   and   have not been lifted yet. These are blatant violations of orders from the court and MWRRA,” water activist  , in a memorandum submitted before the water regulator, has stated.
 
 The Bombay high court, in its order dated September 23, 2016 in the matter of equitable water distribution, had specifically asked for implementation of MWRRA decisions, regarding diversion of monsoon flows.
 
 As per the concerned order by water regulator, the diversion of monsoon flows through canals, flood canals, rivers and streams for Kharif use outside the project command, or for filling tanks and farm ponds is to be allowed on the upstream projects in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts, only after the Paithan (Jayakwadi) reservoir reaches its full-design capacity.
 
 In another important directive, the MWRRA had also asked that KT weir needles which obstruct the flow of water should not be placed in position (in upstream areas) until an equitable distribution is achieved by October end. 
 
 “Annoyed with the apathy on the part of irrigation department officials, we decided to seek justice from the water regulator,” Dhanorkar said. 
 
 The live storage in Jayakwadi has reduced to 17% in the last few days. The gap in rainfall coupled with non-release of water from upstream areas has resulted in terms of stagnant water level in the dam. 
 
