Pune: A diverse flock of first timers emerged victorious in this civic election in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The first-time winners ranged from the richest to the marginalised.

 Incidentally, most of those who contested election for the first time and emerged winners were from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
 
 Congress’ Anand Chhajed, son of senior congress leader and former state minister Chandrakant Chhajed, lost to BJP’s Vijay Shewale from Aundh-Bopodi area that comes under panel number eight. Anand Chhajed is also vice-president of the city unit of Congress.
 
 Shewale, the 62-year-old developer who now owns the famous German Bakery, was the richest candidate in this civic election with a declared asset of Rs 157.29 crore.
 
 Hailing from Aundh, the Shewale family has been politically active for many years. Shewale's brother Suresh is a former mayor and his sister-in-law is a former corporator.
 
 Shewale said, “People knew about the various developmental work initiated and supported by my family members in the past which helped me to win. My foremost priority will be to consolidate efforts to ease traffic woes in Pune.”
 
 Rajashree Kale, a first-time contestant who won from the BJP seat in the panel number seven, has become the first corporator from nomadic community. A resident of Wakadewadi, Kale works as a peon at Garware College.
 
 Siddharth Shirole, the 38-year old son of Pune Lok Sabha MP Anil Shirole, who is also the Maharashtra general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), won against sitting deputy mayor Mukari Algude (Congress), Balasaheb Bodke (NCP) and Raju Pawar(Sena) from Deccan-Model Colony area under panel number 14.
 
 BJP won all the four seats from the Kothrud depot- Bavdhan area in the panel number 10. Interestingly, BJP’s all four candidates are first-time winners.
 
 BJP’s Kiran Dagade emerged a giant killer by defeating Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) heavyweight Shankar alias Bandu Kemse.
 
 Besides, Dilip Vede-Patil another first-time contestant from the panel number 10 also won by 12,530 votes over NCP's Kunal Vede-Patil. Dilip Vede-Patil received 18,493 votes, while Kunal Vede-Patil got 5,962 votes. “This is the victory of the BJP and its ideology,” Vede-Patil told TOI. Vede-Patil said, “I will try my best to implement the party plans for the city.”
 
 BJP's Shradha Prabhune-Pathak, a practising dentist who defeated MNS's sitting corporator Jayashri Marne with the margin of 10,854 votes, became the first timer from the panel number 10. Prabhune-Pathak got 18,080 votes while Marne got 7,226 votes.
 
 “Being a medical professional, my work will mainly focus on public health issues in the ward. The credit for my victory goes to the party as well as to the MLA Medha Kulkarni,” Prabhune-Pathak said.
 
 BJP's first-time winner Alpana Varpe defeated NCP's Sadhana Dakle by 11,233 votes. Varpe got 17,568 votes, while Dakale got 6,335 votes. Sitting corporator MNS's Pushpa Kanojiya was at the third place with only 4.739 votes. “We will all work together for the people in our ward,” Varpe told TOI.
 
 BJP’s Disha Rahul Mane defeated Subhash Jagtap’s daughter-in-law Medha Bhise (NCP) from panel 35 (A ) “The focus of my work will be more on senior citizens, poor and deprived class in my area among other issues,” Mane said.
 
 
