
There is a great momentum in the country at present to recognise and celebrate entrepreneurship. So it is a pleasure and honour to receive the Best Incubator award as its first ever recipient. It energises the incubation community members and motivates them towards better performance. In fact we had bagged the first ever International Champion for Business Incubation Award in 2007 too from the  , an apex global incubation association. 
 
 
 TREC-STEP has worked in three distinct eras since its inception in 1986. Pre and post liberalisation eras and Neo information & globalization era in 2000s. These are different paradigms altogether for entrepreneurship. Manufacturing capacities were the key success factors for entrepreneurship with limited technology choices in the pre-liberalisation era. The post-liberalisation era broke that barrier and gave access not only to many tech choices to youth but also opened up new global business opportunities for them, including in the more demanding manufacturing space. Neo information and gloalisation era has enabled their capacities and horizons so much so that today the youth do not know anything about barriers at all. They have great models before them like   in any sector. They are less afraid to take risk.
 
 
 
 That may be true. It depends on what you aspire for. As one of the fastest growing economies in the world entrepreneurial aspirations are also high here. I would put agro-based incubation and entrepreneurship promotion on top of the agenda considering rural distress in our nation. Manufacturing is another space where more attention is needed. We have not even scratched the surface of incubation in the country. 
 
 
 Tremendous opportunities are available today for any one. Even a graduate student can do big tech projects if he plans clearly. Youth know it. 
 
 
 Manufacturing and all tech areas are unique strengths of Trichy eco system.
 
 
 SMEs are fatally hurt by demonetisation as per AIMO report. They need immense support. This support of 5% tax saving is not at all enough. 
 
 
 NITI Aayog under its new   has come forward to provide scale-up support for select incubators to become world class. In all, 232 applications were received of which the top17 shortlisted were invited to make presentations before the selection committee of experts. Finally, six incubators were selected for scale-up support of Rs 10 crores. TREC STEP is the No 1 incubator selected. 
 
 Trichy regional engineering college – science and technology entrepreneurs’ park (TREC-STEP) received the first National Entrepreneurship Award 2016 of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship recently. The award, under the category of organisations providing incubation, mentorship and handholding support, was for excellence in technology business incubation over three decades. The award included a trophy, certificate and a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh. TREC-STEP executive director   talked to K Sambath Kumar about the park’s role in the development of entrepreneurship and the opportunities available for budding entrepreneurs
