DARJEELING: Violence and arson spiralled in the Hills again on Wednesday with protesters setting public and private property on fire in four pockets.Worse, miscreants set afire the nearly 100-year-old community auditorium -Raj Rajeswari Hall-in   where Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had been a guest to a programme.

 The community hall that stood as a symbol of bonhomie between the Hills and the plains was gutted allegedly by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) supporters late on Tuesday night, though GJM leaders denied the charge. Miscreants also tried to set the government tourist lodge on fire but it was only partially gutted.
 
 The instances of arson continued on Wednesday when a group of Morcha supporters whose faces were covered set ablaze a police jeep that was carrying food for cops a few metres away from Sadar police station.
 
 Raj Rajeswari Hall, situated on   in Kurse ong and a favourite venue to celebrate both Bengali and Nepali festivals, remained untouched during the 1986 Gorkhaland agitation even though Kurseong was hit by violence.
 
 The incident took place at around 12.30am on Wednesday .The wife of the caretaker, who passed away a month ago, was inside the hall along with her son. She rushed out when she heard sounds of somebody smashing the window panes and vandalizing the place. She told police that the faces of the men were covered with black cloth. “ After vandalizing the place, they poured fuel and set it on fire.The local people were too scared to go to the spot till the police arrived,“ a senior officer said. The awe-inspiring hall was built by Ray Bahadur Sashi Bhushan Dey in memory of his late wife Raj Rajeswari Devi. Since then, the hall has been the epicentre of all cultural activities in the tourist town.
 
 “Durga pujas started hundred years ago at the same venue. In 1930, when the hall was built, the puja was shifted the re. The fire has erased a slice of history in the Hills,“ said Chandan Karmakar, trustee member of the  .
 
 The entire Kurseong town was plunged into shock at the loss of one of their most iconic structures. Former CPM MLA from Kurseong Tulsi Bhattarai condemned the attack saying that the movement in the Hills is taking a dangerous turn, driving a wedge between the Hill people and the Bengaliadivasi population in the Dooars and the plains.
 
 “This hall was the favourite destination to celebrate every festival. It is very sad that such an iconic place has been targeted,“ said Arunmoy Mondal, secretary of the   in Kurseong.
 
 In Darjeeling, the Morcha workers set on fire a police jeep that was carrying `khichdi' and `aloo dom' for the security personnel in broad daylight.
 
 Protesters also set ablaze the garage of the Trinamool councillor at ward 2 in Mirik.
 
 “GJM is an advocate of peaceful protests. Our workers are not involved in any such incident. But people are infuriated at how the police have been targeting unarmed protesters,“ said Susma Rai, central committee member of the GJM.
 
 Shahid Diwas by GJM
 
 The women's wing of the GJM will observe Shahid Diwas on July 21to pay homage to eight people who lost lives in alleged police firing since the Gorkhaland agitation re-erupted last month. It will coincide with the Shahid Diwas observed by the Trinamool Congress every year on this day. 
 
