KOLKATA: Nobel laureate  , a 1953-batch alumnus of  , on Thursday set the ball rolling on the institutes’s   with an address that harped on the university’s  , a day before the ceremonial inauguration by chief minister  .

 Speaking on the evolution of the university 200 years ago at the introduction to the Dipak Banerjee Memorial Lecture delivered by another Nobel Laureate, John Tirole, Sen said Presidency University can celebrate the fact that it was not only a very old institution but that it reflected changes that were taking place in society at the time. 
 
 “India was privileged to have Nalanda, the oldest university in the world (5th century) that attracted students from abroad. There were other universities that died slowly and were replaced by other traditions. By the time Presidency College was being founded, the country did not really have a major institution. It is very important to recognise the institute was born out of a civil society initiative and is probably the oldest institution in the world which has no religious connection,” Sen told the august gathering in the newly spruced-up Derozio Hall.
 
 Pointing to Henry Louis Vivian Derozio’s heretical thoughts and his contribution to introducing a culture of heterodoxy in the institute before it subsequently evolved elsewhere across the world, Sen felt this great elemental heritage of Presidency deserved to be celebrated. “Presidency was then called Hindoo College but that was a term used to refer to Indians. It did not have the denominational feature. By the time it was taken over by the government in the 1850s, that total non-denominational nature was more emphasised,” he said. 
 
 Recounting some famous alumni like scientists Jagadish Chandra Bose, Satyendra Nath Bose and Meghnad Saha, statistician P C Mahalanobis, film director Satyajit Ray and freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Sen recalled how thrilled he was on arriving at the illustrious institution as a student in 1951 and discovering a culture of conversation on really difficult issues that the world faces: at times academic, at others non-academic, often political and nearly always social. 
 
 “I remember particularly my classmate Sukumar Chakraborty as being a companion to some of the finest arguments that engaged me and continued to engage me for the rest of my life. In that culture, there was a kind of easy transition from what was happening in the classes to what was happening across the street in Coffee House. And if I can think of a practitioner of excellent teaching and great conversation, it is hard to think of anyone that could come close to Dipak Banerjee,” he said.
 
 
