Mumbai: Expect a smooth drive on the   of the damaged   by December as the bid to rebuild the bridge over the   has finally been awarded to a firm more than a month after it was closed for traffic. The south-bound arm of the flyover is expected to be ready by April 2018. 

 The winning bidder,   (NCC), will replace the super-structure (bridge or viaduct) that is made of steel-frame and concrete slab with iron beams and a new concrete viaduct (see graphic) at a cost of Rs 61.58 crore. The pillars and the ramps of the existing flyover will not be altered.
 
 NCC bagged the project by making the lowest bid compared to other firms, including J Kumar (Rs 66 crore) and L&T (Rs 89 crore). “NCC has started investigations and work on the design and is likely to get the work order in the first week of June. It will then start dismantling the five-spanned viaduct. National codes will be followed to maintain quality of work,” said a senior public works department (PWD) engineer monitoring the project. A traffic management plan is also being finalized. 
 
 A state official said IIT-B experts will check the NCC designs for the new  . “Only after their approval, the work order will be issued. The state approval to the tendering process has already been obtained,” he added. The agency that will make and instal the girders atop the pillars has also been finalized by NCC. “We will try to complete the work before the 11-month deadline,” the state official added.
 
 An unexpected high grow-th in the number of heavy vehicles over the last two decades is reported to have made the spans of Amar Mahal flyover—a unique concrete bridge mounted on steel structure—more ‘distressed’ and ‘overloaded’. The Thane-bound arm of has been shut for traffic since April 8 after the first damage was detected during the six-monthly inspection by PWD engineers. The collapse of Mahad bridge on Savitri River last August, in which 30 people lost their lives, had triggered a periodic check-up of bridges in the state. 
 
 A PWD engineer said the damage to the steel frame was not due to breaking of steel rods or concrete spans but owing to opening of one of the steel locks which bind the ‘V’ structures of the steel frame that has been laid between the concrete bridge and the pillars of the flyover. 
 
 
