KULLU: The historic week-long Dussehra of Kullu started on Saturday after pulling the chariot of Lord   in presence of palanquins of over 250 deities and thousands of people.

 Kullu Dussehra, which is over 350-year-old and has become an international festival, is being celebrated at the historic Dhalpur Maidan of Kullu. Meanwhile, Kullu has also become the home to thousands of people, including tourists who are witnessing the ancient tradition that has been preserved by its residents.
 
 Every year, the entire valley echoes with music of drums and trumpets and this continues for the next seven days. The colourful decorated palanquins carrying the idols and ornaments of deities throng Dussehra venue to pay their obeisance to Lord Raghunath (Rama), the presiding deity of the festival.
 
 The rituals start after arrival of palanquin of Devi Hidimba in the morning and many other deities also come to Raghunath temple to pay their obeisance. The processions then come to Dhalpur maidan to start the rath yatra. The royal family of Kullu, dressed up in traditional attire, perform the rituals and rath yatra starts amidst a sea of crowd.
 
 This year, the   committee has invited 305 deities to attend the festivities, while many other deities also attend the event without invitation. Following the century-old tradition, some deities come to the festival venue, while dozens of deities stay at a certain distance.
 
 Scion of erstwhile Kullu state Maheshwar Singh, who is the chhadivardar (prime servant) of Lord Raghunath said, “Dussehra gives us an opportunity to see hundreds of deities gathering at one place and celebrate festivity together. This is a perfect example that how we have preserved our culture, traditions and art.”
 
 Kullu Dussehra committee chairman Yunus said strict security arrangements have been made for smooth conduct of the festivity.
 
 “We have marked special places for parking and vehicles entering district are being checked. All arrangements have been made for the comfortable stay of the followers of the deities. Cultural programmes will simultaneously run at Lal Chand Prarthi Kala Kendra,” he said.
 
 Himachal governor Acharya Devvrat, who also witnessed the rath yatra inaugurated International Folk Dance Festival at Kala Kendra by lighting the lamps. Cultural troops from many countries and several states have come to perform here. A large number of tourists, including foreigners, have come to research on the unique Kullu Dussehra.
 
 According to historians, the idol of Lord Raghunath was brought from Ayodhya in 1651 when Raja Jagat Singh was the ruler of Kullu state. Dussehra celebrations here started in 1660 when Jagat Singh invited all deities before Lord Raghunath. Since then this festivity is being celebrated by people every year.
 
 There is no tradition of burning effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and   in Kullu Dussehra but the festivities only get concluded after pulling the chariot of Lord Raghunath and performing simple rituals. This year Dussehra will end on October 6 and all deities will be taken back to their temples. Till then, all the deities will be kept in their respective camps, and all arrangements have been made by administration.
 
