MEERUT: While the BJP was all set to paint the city saffron, its National president   gave a strong message on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state by calling off the proposed padyatra in  . 

 After a brief speech, Shah initiated a 2-minute silence on the death of a city trader,   Verma, who among five were shot at by fleeing robbers the previous night. 
 
 “It is a matter of grave concern and sadness that a young man’s life was shortened by the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. I am wondering what his mother must be going through. We condole the family of the deceased and call of the padyatra right now", said Shah.
 
 "But before that, I seek an answer from the two Shehzadas (  and Akhilesh Yadav) on this murder when they sit for a joint press conference today.” 
 
 However, the party workers seemed quite disappointed as elaborate arrangements with a fully-decked vehicle was in place for the much awaited yatra that was supposed to pass through some of the most communally sensitive areas of the city. BJP's ex-state president   is fighting from city constituency. 
 
 Nevertheless, in his 15-minute speech, Shah voraciously attacked SP government on deteriorating law and order situation and urged voters not to vote for the Shehzadas. 
 
 “Just look into the backgrounds of these two Shehzadas. Ek ki party ne desh ko loota to doosre ki party ne Pradesh ko loota. They are not here for development of the state but to fool masses.” 
 
 He further stated, “Where the state could have been number one in agriculture , they made it number one in dacoities and robberies. Where the state could have been number one in generating employment, they made it number one in murders. Everyday this state witnesses 24 rapes while there are 21 attempt to rape. The state has seen 161% rise in crime. More than 200 communal clashes have taken place here and when a lopsided inquiry is instituted on those clashes they are done with an intention to keep its votebank intact. Do you want to vote for these kinds of people again.” 
 
 Shah said, “Once we are in power in UP, we will waive off the loans of the farmers and also provide interest-free loans to them in future. Besides, we will ensure cane farmer is given his due within 15 days of providing his crop to the mills.” 
 
 After calling off the padyatra, Shah visited the victims’ home but before that he said, “Bhare bazaar mein 25 goliyan chalti hain paanch log shikaar hote hain aur Akhilesh Yadav ke sar pe joon bhee nahi rengti.”
 
 On Thursday night, a dozen robbers targeted a gutka trader Sushil Verma at his godown situated on Sharda Road. At that moment, Verma and his son Abhishek, 21, were receiving payments from collection agents. After conducting the loot when the robbers tried to flee they were trapped by the locals after which they opened fire. 
 
 One bullet hit Abhishek in the chest. Besides, four were injured. Abhishek succumbed to injury in the hospital.
 
