NAGPUR: With the implementation of new the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, two new posts of director have been introduced across the state, including Nagpur University (NU), while four other top posts have been renamed.

 The roles and responsibilities of the renamed posts would remain the same and the incumbents are likely to continue till the completion of their term.
 
 NU vice-chancellor SP Kane told TOI , “The state government will soon issue a circular regarding redesignation. For new appointments, the government will notify the requirements, qualifications and pay scale after which the university will publish advertisement for filling up the posts.”
 
 Besides the new directors, the Act also provides for appointment of more university officers. Giving an example, Kane said, “Associates dean may be appointed if the dean recommends it considering the work load. It is an option for the university.”
 
 The renamed posts are currently held by CoE Neeraj Khaty, librarian Kishor Kale, Mohan Kashikar (CAE) and Dilip Kawadkar (SW).
 
 The two new posts introduced are director of sub-campus of the university and director of innovation, incubation and linkages. While the former is an addition, the latter replaces director,   (BCUD).
 
 On March 2, TOI had reported that there was confusion regarding some provisions and appointments to be made. Kane, pro-VC Pramod Yeole and registrar Puran Meshram had attended an orientation programme organized by the   for all VCs, pro-VCs, registrars, BCUD directors, and directors and joint directors of higher and technical education.
 
 They were apprised of implementation of the new Act at Sahayadri Guest House at   in Mumbai.
 
 As per the Act, the director of sub-campus would be a full-time officer. He/she will function as the link between the university, colleges and recognized institutions in the district. The director would oversee and monitor the administration of academic programmes of colleges. The director would also co-ordinate evaluation, academic training workshops and ensure that expenses of the campus are within the budgetary provisions.
 
 Similarly, the director of innovation, incubation and linkages would be a full-time officer. The director would be responsible for encouraging innovation and converting ideas into working models. The Act further states that the ideas must lead to creation of an enterprise to help the university develop a link with premier national and international universities.
 
