ALLAHABAD: Alarmed over government schools in 72 districts not providing seasonal fruits to students as part of mid-day meal despite availability of funds, the   has ordered an inquiry into the discrepancy that threatens to derail the scheme started to check  .

 “It is surprising that fruits are not being distributed by schools in 72 districts despite availability of funds.The district magistrates of these districts have been asked to conduct inquiry into the issue and ensure distribution of fruits as per norms,“ said state's  . He has also sent a circular (numbered C-J1787) to the DMs of all the 72 districts directing them to look into the issue.
 
 Lucknow ranks first with 874 schools on the Authority's list of defaulters, followed by Sitapur (770 schools) and Ba rabanki (689 schools) occupying the second and third positions. Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi's home district, Gorakhpur, has been ranked 4th with 553 schools while Prime Minister Narendra Modi's parliamentary constituency Varanasi finds place among the top 10 defaulters with 329 schools.
 
 These facts came to light after the   related to the meal given to students through interactive voice response system (IVRS).
 
 Officials said the callous attitude of the education department could deal a blow to the UP government's `Khoob Padho, Khoob Badho' campaign launched on July 1 to en sure 100% enrollment in schools. As per the 2011 Census, 40 UP districts find place in the list of worst 100 districts nationwide on the Child Nutritional Deprivation Index.
 
 Keeping in view the low nutrient level in the diet of children, it was decided to give them seasonal fruits.
 
 The Yogi government had allocated Rs 200 crores for distribution of fruits in May while Rs 66.05 crores were released for July-August to ensure the kids get fruits with the opening of new session on July 1.
 
 Jaunpur (444 schools), Ghaziabad (432 schools), Deoria (419 schools) and Chandauli (364 schools) are among the top 10 defaulting districts.
 
