JAIPUR: The   (RERA) has received 276   from developers for registering their ongoing projects till July 31 which was the   given as per the   Act. 

 Developers, projects and agents were provided 90 days to register after the RERA Act came into effect on May 1 in the state. 
 
 According to RERA official, out of received applications from developers, 20 projects were approved and provided with registration number. Similarly, registration number to 158 real estate agents was also given by the authority. It was informed, government agencies also registered their ongoing projects with (RERA).
 
 “Two ongoing projects by Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) and six projects by Kota Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) were registered. The JDA also registered itself as a auction agent under RERA.” said senior UDH official 
 
 The state government has made it clear that no extension will be given to developers or real estate agents for registering with the RERA website in the state. RERA official claims, from August 1, the authority will also take note of unregistered projects and issue notices for registration if required. 
 
 It is believed, there are more than 300 under constructed projects in the state and 50 projects in the Jaipur. However, not many developers have shown interest in registering their projects online.
 
 Sources in the department said, “Out of 33, there are 27 districts headquarters from where not a single developer has registered.”
 
 After RERA act came into force, chief minister Vasundhara Raje launched the RERA website on June 1. It became mandatory for all the builders and real estate agents to register on the website.
 
 “As the deadline is finished, the builders cannot start advertising, marketing, booking and selling of any new projects without getting them registered. If authority finds any developer violating the norms, as per the rules it can impose the penalty, 10percent of the total project cost.” 
 
 Gopal Das Gupta, chairman, CREDAI Rajasthan said, “We had a meeting scheduled with additional chief secretary (UDH) on Monday. We requested for the extension as RERA website was launched one month late in the state.” 
 
 The developers in the state also alleged that time was wasted as the UDH department launched a faulty website. “The department had adopted Maharashtra provisions earlier, which was not feasible for Rajasthan. It took 15 days to rectify the process after we made a demand. Moreover, RERA staff was not appointed on time,” added developer.
 
 
