Mumbai: The   (FSL) test report ruled out the   challenge as the reason why the Class IX student from   (E) ended his life on July 29. It submitted its findings to deputy commissioner of police (zone X)   on Monday after going through his phone. Investigations showed he jumped off the sixth floor terrace following depression for personal reasons or a “failed one-sided love affair”. 

 Police had found a four-page suicide note that he had saved on his mobile phone. “The FSL submitted its findings on Monday. It does not find concrete details to show he ended his life playing the online suicide challenge. The report said there was no evidence nor was there any trail of the challenge the   played using his phone,” Reddy said.
 
 Police had submitted a questionnaire to FSL and told told it to do a detailed forensic test of the boy’s phone. “The questions included whether the Blue Whale challenge was accessed, and whether a link, files or images pertaining to it were deleted. On the first day itself, we found the suicide note which he had saved around 25 days before. The file was opened in front of the family and his sister read it out. He was depressed as a girl studying in his school was avoiding him,” said an officer of Meghwadi police station.
 
 Police suspect he showed signs of depression which the family did not notice. “The note pointed out that he was planning to end his life. But we are not sure if the failed love affair was the only reason,” the officer said. 
 
 He said schoolmates had made up the story of the challenge but it was learnt from friends that he had informed them in the last week of July that he would not be attending school from July 31. Police also did not find inflicted marks of a whale on him, which is part of the challenge. 
 
 Police recorded the statement of a person who saw the boy on the edge of the terrace wall around 5.30pm. The man from the opposite building shouted at him to get back. “The boy jumped before the witness could reach him,” said the police.
 
 
