GURUGRAM: Two   and a woman have been   for allegedly duping a Rajendra Park resident of  . The woman was arrested on Monday from Tughlakabad extension and sent to judicial custody while the Nigerians were arrested on Tuesday night from the same area. 

 The duo was produced in a city court on Wednesday that sent them to two days police custody. A laptop and a pen drive was recovered from their possession. 
 
 According to the police, Hitesh Vyas had filed a complaint with the Rajendra Park police station in December alleging that a woman had duped him of Rs 1 lakh. In his complaint, Vyas said that he had got in touch with the woman through a social networking site, Facebook, in November. The woman had told Vyas that she was a resident of London. After chatting with him on FB for a few days, she promised to bring a laptop and a wrist watch for him when she visited India next. 
 
 “On November 13, she informed me that she had sent the laptop and wrist watch but due to some issues it was not cleared by the customs. The accused asked me to deposit Rs 1 lakh in two of her accounts that would help her in getting the customs’ clearance. I got suspicious when she asked me for more money after a few days,” Vyas said. 
 
 Following the complaint, the case was assigned to the cyber crime cell and an FIR was registered under section 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (used as genuine a forged document), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and sections 66-D, 66-D of IT act at Rajendra Park police station.
 
 The cyber cell team traced and nabbed the woman on Monday from Tughlakabad extension. The woman was identified as 27-year-old Seema alias Hasan babu. During interrogation, she named two Nigerians, Ibrahim Onogiede and Keneth Chika Osuji, who were involved in the crime. The duo were arrested on Tuesday. 
 
 “We have informed the Nigerian embassy about Onogiede and Osuji’s arrest. Though the money was transferred to Seema’s account, the entire plan was hatched by the duo,” said inspector  , head of cyber crime cell. 
 
 
