These are the ladies who make the streets safer for you. They are vigilant day and night to keep the city’s safe for its women. Just a phone call away they don’t shy away from scaring the hell out of lawbreakers. However, when it comes to helping women in distress, they are gentle in their demeanour. For the officers of the  , #NoConditionsApply when it comes to protecting city women.

 The officers of the Nirbhaya Squad, which was formed during Simhastha Kumbha Mela two year ago, have gone beyond the regular definition of   squad, protecting women. “Women don’t need protection only during the dark hours of the night,” expresses  , an assistant police inspector. A stern police officer and mother of three, Sarika says that the squad’s duties lie way beyond the distress call. “There are cases of domestic violence in broad daylight. Girls are deceived, neglected, left out every single day. Who will hear them out? There are incidences which might not amount to severe crimes but they might have a grave impact on the girl’s life. That’s why we are here, not only as protectors but also as a shoulder to cry one when you need a sympathetic ear,” she adds.
 
 
 
 
  When there is any incident of violence against women, we lay much stress on catching the culprit than supporting the victim. Of course, punishing the victim is important, but so is building a support system for victims, so that they can move on in lives. “It’s not your fault! That’s what we tell any victim of sexual abuse or domestic violence,” says police inspector Namrata Desai, adding, “I believe that women officers can help female victims in a better way because victims never feel alienated from  .”
 
 
 
 
  Every woman wants to look good. Dressing up, adorning oneself with jewellery has become a routine for every working woman. However, female officers of security forces have professional constraints on how should they dress. 
 “Other women have to dress-up very carefully to stand out in the crowd. For us, our uniforms do the job. Uniform gives us confidence, respect and glamour too. What more can a woman expect?” adds  , another police constable. 
 
 
