PUNE: For the last month, Archana and her friends, who work as domestic help, regularly hit the  . From 8am to 10pm, they accompanied candidates, holding placards and shouting slogans. 

 For their services, they are paid Rs 500 a day apart from breakfast, lunch and a non-vegetarian meal for dinner. While grateful for the extra income, they still swish they were paid as much as men, who earn Rs1,000-1,200 for the same work. 
 
 "Just a few days are left in the campaign. Soon, I will have double shift," said Archana, who added, "I'm campaigning for a party in my locality, but I got assigned to another party in a different ward. I will have to juggle my duties." Her husband is a painter, who campaigns Archana's party. 
 
 Rekha, on the other hand, has split her time between three parties and also registered her availability to attend public meetings. She will be paid Rs150 for every public meeting she attends, and also gets a food packet. 
 
 Interestingly, but perhaps not surprisingly, neither Archana nor Rekha are concerned with anything beyond their daily survival. They don't have any idea of what happens in political circles, nor do they know anything about parties or campaigns they are campaigning for. 
 
 But they will tell you that elections are the best part of a democracy as the poor get such opportunities to make handsome wages. 
 
 A 'majoor adda' at Dhankwadi and  , which was replete with gloomy countenances and despair just after demonetisation, is now bustling with activity - political workers 'hire' daily wage campaigners here. "Elections must take place regularly. It solves our 'roji-roti' problem," said  , who had migrated to Pune from   during the recent drought. He has no plans of returning, and says he has been keeping busy since the day elections were announced, and is earning good money. "This will help me and my family survive for at least 4-5 months," he said. 
 
 A few professional agencies are also helping candidates and parties acquire help. 
 
 The city unit head of a party said, "My party has a separate budget to hire workers. We pay more for skilled workers who know computers and have good communication skills, so that we can use them for multiple tasks." 
 
 Their employers are making an effort to keep them happy. In the Sahakarnagar area, a candidate gave his workers restaurant passes which could be redeemed for breakfast, lunch and dinner. On  , a corporator hired a cook to prepare non-vegetarian food for the campaigners. 
 
 In some localities, corporators who run educational institutes, credit societies or banks have pressed their employees into service. 
 
 "This year our salary increment depends on whether our boss wins polls," said a schoolteacher, who has had to distribute pamphlets and went door-to-door. She added cynically, "Neither the politicians nor the campaigners are genuine. Also, I suspect the motives of even the voters in today's fake world." 
 
