Chandigarh: Escalating tussle between Haryana Congress MLA Jai Tirath Dahiya and IPS officer Bharti Arora, director-principal of Motilal Nehru Sports School (MNSS) at Rai (Sonipat), over the alleged irregularities in the purchase of sports items, is likely to land the issue in the Punjab and Haryana high court.

 After failing to get a favourable decision from Haryana assembly speaker Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Dahiya has now decided to approach the High Court ‘to protect rights of a public representative to raise public issues.’ Dahiya had moved an application before the speaker on July 12 seeking reconsideration of his privilege notice against Arora, which was dismissed by the speaker.
 
 The speaker had reasoned that he had already disposed of Dahiya’s earlier privilege notice against Arora on July 5 and that he did not think the issue needed reconsideration.
 
 Speaking to TOI Dahiya said, “Speaker is the custodian of the House. If he is not protecting my rights as member of the House then I am forced to approach the court of law. Raising issues of misuse of public funds’ publicly or in the House is my right being a public representative and no officer can challenge it.” An advocate himself, Dahiya added that he had discussed the issue with a senior High Court advocate and would be filing a petition later this week.
 
 The conflict started after Dahiya’s allegations of irregularities in purchase of sports items in the Rai sports school infuriated Arora and she served a legal notice on him on June 15 levelling counter allegations that he had been leading a “vilification and slander” campaign against her.
 
 The IPS officer had asked Dahiya to apologise within a week or that she would sue him in the court seeking Rs 4 crore in damages besides starting criminal proceedings against him.
 
 On receipt of the legal notice, Dahiya had approached the Haryana assembly speaker by issuing breach of privilege notice against Arora stating that he had the right to highlight government fund misuse in sports schools which had already been brought in the light of audit team. Dahiya further alleged, “Being the head of the institute, she (Arora) is solely responsible of the mismanagement of the school.”
 
 The issue had even prompted a war of words between Haryana health, sports and youth affairs minister Anil Vij and the finance minister Captain Abhimanyu. After the finance department had carried out an audit of the sports schools and found irregularities, Vij had moved a letter to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking probe from a senior IAS officer, stating "interference of unconcerned ministry may be stopped immediately.”
 
 
