AURANGABAD: The police units, conducting   across the state, have started recording   of every participating candidate.

 In order to check occurrence of impersonation in tests that are being conducted — as it happened in the past — the police officials have been directed to be extra vigilant while conducting physical fitness and written exams. This is probably the first time in the history of police recruitment that biometric details of the candidates are being recorded.
 
 The   police were left stunned, when a constable serving with the rural police was caught in April 2016 by the Ratnagiri police for helping the candidates clear recruitment tests through various unethical means. Later, it turned out that the constable took a long leave for 15 days to Ratnagiri.
 
 As the vigilance was increased, the city police during a recruitment drive carried out in June 2016, caught dummy candidates while they were impersonating during physical as well as written tests.
 
 Taking serious cognizance of the incidents wherein the policemen were found actively involved in unethical practices during the recruitment drive, the DGP office — ahead of the ongoing recruitment drive — ordered for the recording and cross-checking of biometric details of the candidates.
 
 A senior officer with state police administration said, “Our earlier decision to video record the entire recruitment process helped us in detecting cheating, which already had been committed.”
 
 Additional director general of police (provisions)   said, “Prevention of an offence is always better than its detection and the latest move is in the same direction. The recording of biometric details followed by video recording the entire recruitment process is all set to put a serious check to unethical practices.”
 
 The police units across the state are carrying out the recruitment process for filling up of about 6,000 posts for the rank of constabulary. As per the latest move, in addition to collection of AADHAR card details of the candidate, the police are scanning retinas and fingerprints of the candidates.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, “Apart from following the directives, the candidates are being appealed to raise a flag immediately if they find something suspicious. Our senior officers are acting as appellant authorities on the ground.”
 
 Senior police officers maintained that so as to remain doubly sure, the biometric details of the candidates are being checked at every stage.
 
 Jalna superintendent of police Jyoti Priya Singh said, “We are checking and cross-checking the biometric details of every candidate at each stage. In case the candidates have any objections, we have also made arrangements to go through the recorded videos.”
 
