Harsheen Juneja | tnn

 Ludhiana: Almost two weeks after Saholi village of Sudhar Block in Ludhiana district came under the grip of diarrhoea and gastroenteritis due to water contamination, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the department concerned to ensure supply of safe drinking water in the affected area.
 
 The directive was issued on Thursday by the chief minister to the secretary, rural development & panchayats, and secretary, water supply & sanitation, said an official spokesperson.
 
 Captain Amarinder has asked both the secretaries to take up the issue on top priority and make arrangements to provide potable water to the residents of the village.
 
 The chief minister has also asked the health department to play a proactive role in creating awareness among the people about the ill-effects of drinking contaminated water. People should be made aware of the preventive measures to be taken to avert any outbreak of water-borne diseases, the chief minister has directed the department. 
 
 The commissioner of Ludhiana MC has also been asked to keep tabs on the situation and take all possible steps to ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply in the areas where cases of contaminated water causing health hazards have been reported, the spokesperson added
 
 Two people had died of gastroenteritis and hundreds were taken ill with diarrhoea since the outbreak happened on July 12. Later, a few cases of cholera were reported from the area too.
 
 All water samples collected from Saholi village were found contaminated with the bacteria E-Coli and highly chlorinated. The level of the EColi bacteria was found to be high in three samples (More than 1,000 organisms per 1,000 ml), making it life threatening for residents. The other four samples showed high level of chlorination.
 
 Health minister Brahm Mohindra said, “ The health department is fully prepared to tackle any kind of situation. We are in regular contact with the civil surgeon, Ludhiana, for the same.
 
 Regarding the control of such outbreaks, “Water sampling will be done and the local departments will be asked to supply potable water.” 
 
 Dr Rajiv Bhalla, director, health, Punjab, said, “A notice has been issued to departments concerned do regular water sampling especially in the vulnerable areas.” 
 
 Executive engineer water and sanitation J S chahal said, “Routine water sampling will be done. All the private connections would be checked too.”
 
 
