AURANGABAD: The district and sessions court has   three persons, who were arrested on the   for   with one of the accused, after the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt.

 In a judgement delivered last week, additional sessions judge P P Karnik has acquitted farmer Sanjay Raghunath Gade (31), his wife Sunita (25) and his his friend Nagesh Ramnath Lande (30). The trio was arrested by the Paithan police on the charges of murdering Balaji Gadhe. 
 
 The accused and the deceased belong to Dadegaon village in Paithan tehsil.
 
 As per a complaint lodged by Balaji’s brother Sudam Sonaji, his brother had left home on October 12, 2012, saying that he would be going to Gade’s house to collect Rs 50,000 he had lent him, before going to the village market in Paithan.
 
 But Balaji did not return home and the family launched a search for him. After four days, some villagers informed Sudam that Balaji was having an illicit relation with Sunita.
 
 Some villagers also told Sudam that when Balaji went to collect the money, the accused couple had a heated argument with him.
 
 Nine days later, on October 21, Sudam received a call, informing him that the body of a man was lying near a bridge in Pategaon Shivar on the road to Dadegaon. Sudam rushed to the spot and identified the body as that of Balaji. 
 
 Investigations have revealed that Gade had decided to teach Balaji a lesson after he learnt about his wife’s affair with Balaji, her distant brother in law.
 
 Lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar, who represented the accused, said, “Police stated that Sunita called Balaji to her home on the fateful day and the trio assaulted him brutally, resulting in his death. Police further stated that after killing him, Gade and his friend Lande carried the body on a bike to Pategaon village, about 6km from Dadegaon, dumped the body and also burnt his cellphone.”
 
 During the trial, the prosecution examined seven witnesses in the case, which was based upon circumstantial evidence such as evidence of motive that the deceased was having an affair with Sunita, he had lent Rs 50,000 to Gade which he was demanding, and recovery of money and weapons from the accused. 
 
 Ghanekar contested that the allegations of illicit relation and Rs Rs 50,000 debt were too feeble to rely upon. “The seized weapons had no connection with the alleged incident. Moreover, the prosecution could not establish the chain of circumstances to bring guilt to the accused. Also, there was no ‘last seen’ evidence,” Ghanekar argued.
 
