PANAJI: The much-awaited bypolls for Panaji and Valpoi assembly constituencies in the state will be held on August 23, just two days before Ganesh Chaturthi, with   already making the first mover advantage with its candidates—chief minister Manohar   and health minister Vishwajit Rane—already hitting the campaign trail. While the festive season may be a dampener, for the opposition, the immediate worry is its choice of candidates.

 Congress, which managed to be the single largest party in February polls with 17 seats, has lost one of its key members from Valpoi—Vishwajit—to BJP, while its intent to take on Parrikar in Panaji by putting up Atanasio Monserrate came a cropper with Monserrate deciding to join ruling ally Goa Forward Party.
 
 That BJP has a headstart was evident when Parrikar told TOI on Thursday after the poll schedule was announced: “I’ve already started meeting people, visiting my voters. In view of the monsoon season, we are having indoor meetings.” Parrikar said he intends to meet the 22,000-odd voters before the polls.
 
  is still “weighing the merits of its probable candidates” for Panaji, while sources said it may field Ponda MLA Ravi Naik’s son Roy Naik from Valpoi. 
 
 “We’ll declare our candidates within three-four days,” Goa Congress unit president Shantaram Naik said. The last day for filing of nominations is August 5.
 
 Though BJP state core committee has already finalised Parrikar and Rane’s names, the chief minister told TOI: “BJP’s parliamentary board will meet in Delhi on Monday to declare the names for the bypolls.”
 
 The Panaji seat fell vacant in May when incumbent Sidharth Kuncalienker, who had proved to be a giant killer in the last assembly polls defeating Monserrate of United Goans party, resigned to make way for Parrikar. The vacany in Valpoi was created when Rane junior quit Congress to join BJP in March this year.
 
 Political analysts say that with Monserrate joining GFP, an important ally of BJP in the four-month old coalition government, the ruling side seems to have taken the wind out of the sails of the opposition in the capital city.
 
 “Inclination and affinity towards the party will be our criteria to decide on the candidate,” Congress state chief Shantaram Naik said.
 
 Sources in the party said two lawyers are on the list of the party. One is senior counsel in the high court, Surendra Desai, and the other is Yatish Naik. “We have more probable names,” a party functionary said.
 
 While some AAP members are keen to field Valmiki Naik for Panaji, a few others seem to be in favor of pitching a candidate who has the support of all the political rivals of BJP.
 
 “With Monserrate joining hands with Goa Forward and not in the fray, we believe that all political parties should come together and stop Parrikar from winning Panaji. Gauging the public opinion, we have approached some parties and talks are going on but nothing is definitive right now,” a senior member from AAP’s state unit said, adding the party has started its ground exercises to connect to the public.
 
 Shantaram Naik said no one had approached him for putting up a united front candidate. Sources said Congress would definitely put up a candidate.
 
 As for Valpoi, Vishwajit started holding workers’ meeting earlier this month. He has been visiting houses and seeking their vote in a bid to win by a huge margin. But Congress has been trying to put up a brave front. “We are getting a good response in Valpoi constituency,” said All India Congress Committee incharge of Goa desk, A Chellakumar.
 
 Usgao had been part of Ponda constituency till 2012 elections and Ravi Naik had a good hold there, a Congress functionary said. It’s for this reason that Vishwajit Rane has been devoting lot of time there, a poll watcher said.
 
 Sources said Valpoi and Poriem constituencies have been a Rane bastion for a long time. BJP had been ineffective in making any breakthrough over the years in the two segments. It was Vishwajit Rane, the sources said, who with his popularity would get the two seats in favour of the Congress.
 
 Now with him in BJP, the ruling party is confident of the seat with a good margin.
 
