BHOPAL: State Congress came down heavily on Prime Minister   for attending the valedictory function of the   at   on Monday. This, especially after the Prime Minister acknowledged that Narmada river is being looted. 

 PCC chief Arun Yadav claimed, "We learnt that the Prime Minister said Narmada river is being plundered and looted. And those engaged in the plundering are now talking of its protection. This is exactly what the Congress party has been repeatedly saying since the Narmada Seva Yatra started. The Congress party had written three letters to the Prime Minister to update him on how the Narmada is being plundered."
 
 Since the past eight years, the Congress has been alleging illegal sand mining from the Narmada and involvement of chief minister  's family in it.
 
 Yadav said if the Prime Minister has knowledge of the plundering of Narmada, then he should not have come for the programme. "Since he knew of the pillage of the Narmada and the illegal sand mining activities, then he should have ordered a probe into it and not become part of the celebrations," the PCC president said.
 
 Congress party reminded that PM Modi stood on the Red Fort and promised to the nation a clean, corruption free country. "He said, 'Na khaunga naa khane dunga (won't be corrupt and won't tolerate corruption)'. But today to host his function, the BJP state government has spent Rs 100 crore just for the valedictory function. The administration has been asked by the chief secretary to divert funds from various welfare schemes and pay Rs 500 to every person who attended this function. Tourism department has funded the food for people being brought from across the state," Yadav alleged.
 
 "We also know that district administration offices have been told to show this expenditure as for training. Question is, has the Prime Minister been brought here to train those who attended the valedictory function of the 'yatra' in oratory skills and speech delivery?
 
 What training has been imparted? The hard-earned tax paid by citizens have been misused," Yadav asked. 
 
 
