MUMBAI: The state government has suspended a former chief executive officer (CEO) of the   board for wrongly certifying a large plot in Nashik as non-Wakf land.

 The order to suspend  , currently superintendent of land records in Aurangabad, was issued by the revenue department on Friday after a departmental inquiry conducted by the minorities department under principal secretary Shyam Tagade found that she had illegally passed an order in February 2016 declaring a 55-acre plot in Nashik donated to a mosque as non-wakf, thus benefitting private persons who sold the land to a developer who has begun construction at the site. The price of the land has been estimated by the department to be close to Rs 2,500 crore. Patel had been appointed as temporary CEO of the board in 2015 when she was already holding charge as superintendent of land records in Aurangabad.
 
 Wakf land is an inalienab le religious endowment in Islamic law and is donated for religious or charitable purposes with no intention to reclaim it.
 
 This, in particular, is not just any piece of land. It (survey number 980 and 981) was donated to a mosque called Masjid Dudadhari in Borwadi in Nashik by   in the 17th century. The state has a copy of the revenue document which bears the royal stamp of Shah Jahan and his revenue officer for that area, Murad Baksh. The government also has documents from the Maratha era, when the plot was renewed.
 
 “The biggest proof is a government gazette dated 1927, signed by British officials, that had marked the plot numbers as wakf properties.Despite having all this documentary evidence, Patel passed the order declaring the plot as non-wakf,“ said an official from the minorities department.
 
 Patel could not be reached for comment.
 
 Officials said that Patel in her order had mentioned that there had been some months that the plot had not been under the Wakf board, and that she had based her ruling on that. “But according to the rules, once a property has been donated to the board, it cannot be reversed or transferred and not even sold,“ said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, the department may not just stop at suspension, they are also contemplating filing of a criminal complaint against Patel.A township is coming up on the plot after a builder got its possession on paying compensation to the encroachers who proved themselves to be legal heirs of the land after the former CEO declared the land as non-wakf. The matter is now in court.
 
 There are 97,000 acres of land under Wakf board, of which close to 70% of plots have been encroached upon or illegally sold, said a 2007 report of a panel formed to study condition of wakf land.
 
