NEW DELHI: The board of   ( ) is caught in a not-so-becoming row. Trouble is brewing in the board of governors of the premier fashion institute with one board member shooting off a defamation notice against another — and a political twist also at play.
 
  NIFT board member   — a former national co-convenor of BJP's Good Governance Cell member and currently a consultant with Gadkari’s ministry — has sent a defamation notice to to fellow board member  , a UPA appointee and president of the Fashion Design Council of India.
  
  Tyagi alleges inappropriate and defamatory allegations made against her by Sethi in communications to all board members.
  
  She has sent a legal notice to Sethi seeking Rs 1 crore in damages. Tyagi has alleged that Sethi has in emails alleged that she has been “'flaunting connections with powerful individuals'”. Tyagi is also learnt to have taken the matter to the textiles ministry. NIFT is established under the aegis of the Textile ministry.
  
  “Yes, I have sent a legal notice to Mr Sunil Sethi due to some derogatory comments he made on me. I had to send him a notice as no body in the board spoke up against this. I have also brought this to the notice of the Textile ministry”, Tyagi told ET.
  
  Tyagi has further filed a police complaint against Sethi in Delhi police’s cyber cell.
  
  Sunil Sethi when contacted said the matter is easily resolvable within the board by the DG and the chairperson.
  
  “There may have been some differences of opinion in the board. Every member has a right to opinion and sometime another may not take kindly to it. This is my third term on the NIFT board and I have enough experience as a board member to understand that. The issue is strictly between the board. It is also a small and in fact a non-issue which the DG and chairperson can resolve. I am a non-political person and have served under ministers from various dispensations. I am confident the board will do the right thing,” Sethi told ET.
  
  NIFT Director General Sarada Muralidharan declined to comment on the matter. NIFT chairman and BJP MP Chetan Chauhan said he had no knowledge of the matter as he was busy with  .
