AGRA: Ten people including five former district social welfare officers (DSWOs), a former deputy director of social welfare for Agra division, a former director of Dr B R Ambedkar   Coaching Centre and three private coaching institute owners have been booked under sections related to cheating and fraud of the IPC. According to   officials, they have been accused of misusing government funds allocated for free civil service coaching for   students. Nearly Rs 50 lakh was shared among the accused, who instead of deploying government teachers and professors for Dalit students, hired staff from three private coaching centres for the task.

 The matter came to light when one of the private coaching centres went to   against the district social welfare department, who had allegedly refused to pay for their services. Till date no Dalit student has cleared the civil service entrance exams from the government centre. Police officials said that not a single student was taught, nor were the coaching classes ever held.
 
 The ten accused have been identified as Anchit Mani Bharti, Soveran Singh Yadav, Umesh Dwivedi, Gautam Kumar, Saroj Kumar (all DSWOs); Rajesh Kumar, deputy director of social welfare for Agra division; Layak Singh, former director of Dr B R Ambedkar Civil Service Coaching Centre and the managing directors of private institutes Centre of Ambition, Career Revenue Educational Society and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Siksha Samiti.
 
 Assistant superintendent of police and circle officer of Hariparvat, Shlok Kumar said, “Based on the written complaint of DSWO Sanjeev Nayan Mishra, we have booked ten people under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC.”
 
 Mishra added, “The ten have been accused of diverting government funds, between 2009 and 2014, for their personal benefit by hiring private teachers, instead of lecturers from government-aided colleges.”
 
 On Saturday police raided the private coaching centres to arrest the three accused men, but they were not found.
 
 According to a government source, in 2006, the district social welfare department opened a coaching centre for Dalit students under Dr B R Ambedkar University. The department was supposed to hire government college teachers, but they hired teachers from private coaching centres instead.
 
