JAIPUR: The police on Saturday identified 13 minors from 77 video clips which were recovered from the mobile phone and pen drive of   who   for over five years.

 Deputy commissioner of police (North)   said, most of the victims were between the age of 6 and 15 years. “Primary investigation reveals that all videos were shot between 2011 to 2015. There are multiple videos of one kid. After examination of these videos, we were able to zero down on 13 minors,” added Bhomia.
 
 So far, two victims have filed criminal cases against Rameez, a private tutor who gave English lessons at his home located near Ramganj. However, Bhomia said that number of victims could be as high as 21.
 
 “There are multiple clips of one minor. We have seen several kids in these clips and we believe that there could be 21 victims as some boys have yet to be identified. We have sent these videos to forensic lab to get details about the kids involved,” he added.
 
 Rameez, a 27-year-old teacher, shot these videos in the bedroom of his house where he lived along with his nine siblings. “He raped and molested minors on regular basis and then asked kids to steal money from their parent’s house,” a senior official said.
 
 The paedophile teacher was arrested on Thursday after a 14-year-old boy alleged that he was raped and blackmailed for money by Rameez for four years.
 
 The teacher was shunted out of three schools for his homosexual habits. “Despite having prior information about Rameez’s unnatural acts, the school management failed to report the crime to local police. Action will be initiated against the school management too,” police official said. 
 
 While the police are probing the role of school, the cops also suspect the involvement of one more person who helped Rameez in recording the unnatural acts. “We suspect that Rameez used one of his victims to shoot these videos,” Bhomia said. 
 
 While the cops are clamming that there are no girls in these video clips, the parents of victims suspect that he may have targeted minor girls too. “Several students attended his classes, including girls, therefore, we suspect that he may have also abused girls,” added Fatima, (name changed) aunt of a 14-year-old who filed case against Rameez.
 
 Bhomia said, the case is under investigation by the senior officials of the   and assured of speedy investigation. However, the relatives of the victims alleged that initially Ramganj police was reluctant to register the matter. 
 
