Panaji: With just three days left for the state excise department to enforce the  's judgment banning the sale of alcohol along national highways, liquor distributors and retailers are running confused and scared. Alcohol retailers and stores across Goa, especially those along the national and state highways, have pressed the brakes on stocking of liquor brands out of fear that they will look foolish on April 1 with unsold inventory.

 Given the uncertainty surrounding the Supreme Court’s judgment, alcohol distributors have also stopped selling alcohol on credit.
 
 Alcohol distributors used to offer a 21-day credit mechanism to retailers but with the excise department yet to renew the licenses for 2017-18 for outlets operating within 500 meters of the highways, distributors have either stopped supplying fresh stock or are supplying purely on cash purchases.
 
 “Nobody is supplying to those stores that are less than 500 meters from the highway. Stores themselves have stopped buying because who wants their investment to be stuck in liquid? This is obviously going to affect sales,” a distributor for   said.
 
 Uncertainty on whether the judgment applies to bars and restaurants has also dampened sentiment and these outlets, which fall along the highways, have also reduced their stock of alcohol, especially imported, as well as premium Indian-made foreign brands. These outlets are also in discussions to offload slow moving stock.
 
 Chief minister   on Monday issued directions stating that the apex court’s judgment did not apply to bars and restaurants.
 
 Many of these stores have been operating with low inventories as distributors tighten the leash on supply and credit ahead of April 1. For retailers, the bigger worry is the reluctance of distributors to supply on credit. The demand for cash on delivery has put a strain on working capital in most stores, making it difficult for them to maintain adequate stocks of even popular brands, a retailer said.
 
 “Some distributors have adopted the strategy of offering no credit at all. There are others who have reduced credit to seven days. It all depends on location of the outlet and varies from brand to brand,” said  , sales and marketing manager for an alcohol brand.
 
 An owner of a prominent liquor store in Panaji said the industry was unnerved by the Supreme Court’s judgment and the state government’s lack of interest. TOI visited several stores and found their stocks were 30-50% lower than usual.
 
 “I have slowed down on stocking a bit but not to the extent as the others. I am still stocking because I can shift it to my store at Candolim,” owner of a Porvorim-based supermarket   said.
 
 
