MUMBAI: For a city that is already witnessing depletion of  , here's some not-so-good news. Those living along Linking Road in   were shocked last week to find branches of more than a dozen trees hacked. A police complaint has been lodged. 

 Trees that stood as high as signboards of shops lining the popular shopping hub stand out like sore thumbs, propped up against the backdrop of a grey sky. Branches, which seemed to have been freshly hacked in a random manner, were stacked at the base of the trees.
 
 Businesswoman Minal Punjabi (36), who had, along with the municipality, got around 15 trees planted and fenced, said the incident "came as a huge blow". For an entire year after planting those trees, Punjabi said she used to come there only to water them. 
 
 "It had taken me months to get the   on board to plant these trees. Each one had been planted with much effort and care..." said the tree lover.
 
 Khar resident Sabishi Shankar said the trees have been haphazardly cut. In a post put up on social media, Shankar blamed shops along the road which could have got the trees hacked for better visibility of their window displays.
 
 Another local, Aditi Kane, said Linking Road is devoid of any green cover. "These trees were growing so well," said Kane, a member of a group called Tree Lovers of  .
 
 Municipal officials have lodged a criminal complaint against unknown persons at Khar police station. A civic official said that they noticed the hacked branches about three days ago, during a routine inspection along Linking Road. "A case has been registered under the Tree act," said an official. "It appears that only branches of some trees have been trimmed. But then, even that calls for permission from the BMC. Without that, trimming branches is illegal."
 
 Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of H-west civic ward (Bandra to Santacruz), confirmed that a police case has been lodged.
 
 Meanwhile, Punjabi said she's a tad pessimistic despite the complaint. "My experience has shown how little, or rather nothing, happens even when a case is filed. I don't not expect much to come out of it."
 
