When the   registration window opens on June 1, Molu Ram, a Mother Dairy milk vend operator, may be among those who seek registration. Like the ex-serviceman, there will be a few thousand other Safal and Mother Dairy booth operators who need to register.

 “Most of our products such as fruits, vegetables and milk will be exempted from GST but all our booths will have to be fully compliant since some products like ice cream and edible oil will be in the net,“ said Mother Dairy CFO Meghnad Mitra.
 
 Clearly, most booth operators, a large part being ex-servicemen, are not in a position to comply with the electronic registration and filing requirements that will come with GST. So, Mother Dairy is creating a panel of 5-6 consultants to help them. But GST compliance will come at a cost ­ between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 each ­ with the company yet to decide who will foot the bill.
 
 Luckily for Mother Dairy, a bulk of the registration requirement will be limited to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since its booths operate in the National Capital Region. For the railways, the registration requirement will be in every state since its stations sell tickets to passengers and transport goods.
 
 Individual railway zones will also have to register in each state through which their trains pass. If Northern Railways runs a train from, say, Delhi to Mumbai, it will need registration in Ma harashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh as well as Delhi since it will sell tickets in each state, explained tax lawyer RS Sharma.
 
 The same will apply to a bus that runs from Delhi to Jammu, boarding passengers in Delhi, Karnal and Chandigarh, and also from Jammu on the return journey. “If there is centralised ticketing there is no need for separate registration in each state,“ explained an officer.
 
 For the bus operator there is the additional complication of getting a tax credit from the Jammu & Kashmir government, which is yet to enact a GST law.
 
 For goods transporters with a national permit, even if they pick up goods from multiple states so long as the billing is from a centralised location the registration requirement will not extend to more than one state.
 
 But banks, insurance companies and other service providers with multiple points of sale and billing centres will have to register separately in every state. Although the Centre was keen on centralised registration to ensure the promised ease of doing business under the GST regime, states have insisted on diluting the norms and making registration mandatory with them.
 
 Banks, telecom companies and other financial services companies had petitioned the GST Council to allow for centralised registration but states had their way.
 
 With the registration requirement comes the compliance burden too. “If there is a dispute with a state government, you will need to have people there to deal with the case,“ said a company executive.
 
 Consultants said they are facing practical problems. For instance, currently there is no provision to change the name of the authorised signatory of the company. “What if the employee who is the authorised signatory leaves between the time you register and GST kicks in?“ said a tax consultant.
  
 
