NAGPUR: City police are set to conduct a security audit of financial institutions, including banks, ATMs,   traders in Sarafa Oli at Itwari and elsewhere, in the backdrop of the armed robbery at   in  , where miscreants decamped with valuables worth Rs21.42 lakh on Sunday. The exercise, conducted earlier too, is being revived to beef up security under the guidance of city police.

 The security audit, following instructions from city police top brass, would be coordinated by the crime branch for statistics and logistics support. The audit would be conducted at the field level by respective police station staffers under the supervision of senior officials. The crime branch would conduct meetings of sarafa businessmen, and bank and other financial institution heads, to ensure they step up security measures and also remove shortcomings in the coming days.
 
 Around a week ago, city police chief K Venkatesh, Addl CP (in-charge), crime, Sambhaji   and other officers had convened a meeting of bank officials to exchange concepts and draw up strategy to thwart online frauds and such crimes. A similar meeting may be convened soon to discuss security-related issues.
 
 Kadam said the main objective of the audit is to ensure that existing systems are made full proof and minimum required security is maintained. “Our unit is also working on drawing up a list of thieves, robbers, dacoits and burglars with previous records. We will sure such thieves are rounded up and slapped with preventive actions,” he said.
 
 Kadam also said several institutions have already installed CCTVs, which would be made mandatory for others too. “We would ensure CCTVs are not only installed but kept in functioning condition by sensitive establishments,” he said. “Police stations would very soon start summoning representatives of banks, jewellers and such establishments dealing in substantial cash or valuables to review their security systems,” said the IPS officer.
 
 Joint CP Shivaji Bodkhe has instructed crime branch to ensure that all vulnerable financial institutions, whether banks or ATMs, jewellery shops etc are covered by patrolling. He has instructed the crime branch to coordinate with police stations for meetings at their level, before zonal level meets under DCPs and the top brass are convened.
 
 
