After showing off her daredevil side on   Season 8,   is now up for another challenge as she enters the   house. In an exclusive chat with the TimesOfIndia.com, the actress revealed the reason why she chose to be a part of the show. She also spoke about what will be her way of dealing with fights inside the house and how her her boyfriend   played an important part in convincing her parents for the show!

 “Rocky played an important role in convincing my parents to let me do the show. They are pretty happy now that I am doing Bigg Boss. He managed everything and also looked after all the other details that are involved behind taking up the show,” said the actress. 
 
 Hina, who shot to popularity after playing the role of Akshara in  , says even she is human and can make mistakes inside the house. "I am not God. I am a human, so even I can make mistakes and get into fights. So, don’t be surprised if you see me shouting. But I will try and sort out things in a most dignified way.”
 
 
 
 
 The actress, who played the role of Akshara for eight long years, feels that she is going to be the most adjustable contestant of the house and is a pro at all household chores. 
 
 “I know cooking, I can do all the household chores. Be it washing, cleaning dishes or anything else. In fact, I feel I will be more adjustable than any of the commners,” explained Hina. 
 
 Hina has no qualms sharing her things with any of the housemates and is even ready to clean toilet pots.
 
 
 
 
 
 “I am open to share everything. During Khatron Ke Khiladi also I was very helpful to everyone. All the contestants used to say that if you need anything be it medicine or any other stuff, you should go to   as she would definitely help you. The only problem is I am a very hygienic person and I also have OCD problem. So I can’t share stuff which needs hygene. I would rather give away the entire thing. I am even ready to clean toilet pots, I’ve no qualms.” concludes Hina. 
 
 Bigg Boss 11 will air from October 1.
 
