JAIPUR: Addressing a meeting of state-level tax advisory committee for the preparation of the state budget, chief minister   on Tuesday said Goods and Services Tax (GST) will not only simplify taxation for trade and industries but also enhance the revenue collection of the state.

 She also held discussions with representatives of trade and industry bodies, tax experts and sought suggestions for the state budget for which no date has been fixed so far.
 
 In their pre-budget memorandum which focused on MSMEs, agro processing industries, automatic land conversions as per master plan, pollution control board parameters, etc, CII-Rajasthan said, the system of single window approval for investments less than Rs 10 crore is not working properly as district magistrates do not find time. “This should be controlled and monitored by commissioner industries through GM, DICs,” it added.
 
 CII also recommended a council on the lines of   like   has done to channelize the government incentives to the bureau but not to industries directly.
 
 Similarly, FICCI-Rajasthan also said the commercial taxes department charges 12% interest on delayed payments but provides for only 6% interest in case of refunds. “This should be at the same rate or with a narrow differential,” it added. It also urged the chief minister to withdraw entry tax on polyester filament yarn, industrial fuels. There is no policy on software product development in the country. PHD CCI said   should take lead in this like it has done for framing labour reforms. “We develop products for foreign multi-national companies like Windows, Linux etc but we don’t have our own operating system. Rajasthan may take lead under the guidance of our visionary chief minister,” it added.
 
  also pitched for the traders urging the government to set up a committee which can address the difficulties faced by them. “Haryana has already done this to the great benefit of the traders there. We would like to have a similar one in Rajasthan,” a FORTI statement said.
 
 
