Pooja Hegde (Miss Universe India 2010 2nd Runner-Up) made a dream debut in Bollywood — as Hrithik Roshan’s heroine in an   directorial. But after that ecstatic high came an agonising low — ' ' failed commercially and was panned critically. Most newcomers would have crumbled under the pressure and dejection, but Pooja is made of tougher stuff. In an exclusive interview with BT, the stunning model-turned-actress talks about films, failure and future plans. Excerpts...

 
 It was a great debut. My priority was to be appreciated in the film, and I passed that test. The audience liked me and felt that I have good screen presence. You can’t do anything about a film’s fate at the box office. 
 
 
 That’s true, but that mindset is changing. Women-centric films are being made and they are doing well. A few years down the line, this won’t even be a topic of discussion because people are appreciating Deepika Padukone,   and Priyanka Chopra — they add value to the films they do. It’s become more script-centric; as long as we are making good films, it doesn’t matter whether they are hero-centric or heroine-centric.
 
 
 I have never looked at it that way. Films are films, whether it’s down South or here; only the language is different. The fact that I have done films down South didn’t boost or hamper my chances here. In fact, I was still shooting for both my Telugu films when I met Ashu sir for 'Mohenjo Daro'. During the audition, he gave me five scenes with lengthy dialogues. Once I cleared them, he gave me a song to dance to. So, my Bollywood entry was no cakewalk. I went through a series of auditions to get the part.
 
 
 Yes. He messaged me the other day, saying that he loves my photographs online. Even when the pictures from our shoot came out, he had told me that I was looking good and had done a fab job.
 
 
 Ashu sir did his research well and had also hired a team of archaeologists. His office was full of books on the subject; he was like a walking encyclopedia on Mohenjo Daro. As far as my preparations were concerned, when I entered the set and slipped into that attire, I was immediately transported into that era. The only thing I had to work on was to remain fit so that I could carry off those clothes and the headgear. My main prep for the film was practising dance because when you are dancing next to Hrithik Roshan, you have to get your steps right. 
 
 
 No, but now that you have reminded me, I will message Ashu sir to send me the statue of the dancing girl. He has four of them in his office.
 
 
 I have been offered a couple of scripts and I am going through them. I am waiting for the right opportunity and script. As far as the type of movies I am offered is concerned, it’s a mix. I have been offered both period films and the regular fare.
 
 
 It is very difficult. I love watching rom coms and hence, would love to be part of one. I haven’t done anything like that till date. I would love to be part of a young love story. In fact, I have a long list of what I want to do. 
  
  
