NAGPUR: Sixty days after  , a TOI random survey covering nearly 50 ATMs showed that more than 40% were without cash in the first half of the day itself. This comes despite claims by the government and banks that the cash situation has improved considerably.

 Recently, minister of state for finance Santoshkumar Gangwar had said no limits on withdrawals may be needed after January 1. However, he backtracked last week during his visit to Nagpur for a function at   (NADT), saying the ball is in RBI’s court.
 
 Bankers say at least half the ATMs working is the new normal now. Given the present level of cash supply through RBI, the situation may worsen if the limits are lifted. Though the supply of cash has eased, and several ATMs which had remained closed till December have reopened too, they said.
 
 “We have been filling up every ATM but many are running dry before the day ends. The circumstances were different before demonetisation. Now, the banks have to manage with limited cash. So the chances of ATMs running dry cannot be ruled out. The refilling is done only once a day,” said an official in a leading PSU bank of the region.
 
 TOI checked ATMs from Jafar Nagar, Chhaoni, Sadar, West High Court Road, Bharat Nagar, Kamptee Road and Civil Lines. Almost every bank’s ATM, including those of PSU behemoth   (SBI), were among those without money. Among the exceptions were those of private banks HDFC Bank and Yes Bank.
 
 A regional manager of a PSU bank told TOI that some weeks back ATMs used to fast run out of cash very fast. The situation has improved to a considerable extent. At least, the bank is able to replenish machines on a daily basis. In most cases, ATMs are refilled in evenings.
 
 “Out of 85 ATMs of the bank in the region, 77 are working. Those dry are only due to logistical reasons, since the outsourced agencies are not able to cover all the machines,” said an official of a government bank ranked at mid-level in terms of presence in the state.
 
 Last week, RBI had called for details on the banks’ cash requirement. As against 40% of the indent being remitted by RBI, as much as 75% came last week. The supplies will have to be further scaled up if the limits are removed. 
 
 A source in State Bank of India said they are preferring to give fewer notes of Rs500 over the counters, so that the currency can be spared for filling up ATMs. “We get alerts whenever ATMs run dry or is out of order. The issue has to be attended at the earliest,” said the official.
 
 An official in Union Bank of India said it is preferred that ATMs are refilled in the evening since over the counter payments are encouraged during the day time. 
 
 
