NEW DELHI: A cabbie ran over a four-year-old boy in northwest Delhi's Mukherjee Nagar and then allegedly spent the next five hours driving the dying victim and his mother around the city, trying to convince the mom not to report the accident while telling her that none of the hospitals they visited were willing to admit the boy. Having received no medical attention for five precious hours, the boy,  , died inside the cab. The driver, Rahul, 32, was later arrested.

 “Those were five hours of horror. I have three more children who have constantly been asking me where Rohit is. How do I tell them they will never see their brother again?“ Vasanti Kumari, the distressed mother who works as a maid, told TOI.
 
 Police said the incident was reported on Friday evening. They said Rohit was playing outside his Indira Vikas Colony home when the Eeco cab hit him while reversing. As a crowd gathered, the cabbie, Rahul, 32, offered to take the boy and his mom to hospital. But once inside the car, Rahul kept trying to negotiate with Vasanti and even allegedly threatened her. Vasanti said she initially thanked Rahul for offering to take her child to hospital.
 
 “I was carrying no phone, because of which I couldn't inform anyone about the incident. He began to speed and as soon as we were away from the area where the accident took place, he stopped his vehicle and asked me not to tell anyone about the incident. I was puzzled. I didn't know how to react, but soon enough I told him that I would report this to the cops,“ said the mother.
 
 Vasanti said the man then took the car to a private hospital, went inside and came out saying that they would not admit the child.
 
 “He drove us around for five hours and took us to four other hospitals including the AIIMS Trauma Center and Hindu Rao hospital. Each time, he went in and returned with the same answer,“ she said.
 
 “At 5.30pm, Rohit opened his eyes one last time, only to shut it forever,“ she said.
 
 The boy's father, Bhavesh Kumar, who works as a carpenter, said he was informed about the incident at 6pm, when his wife called him up from a local booth. The couple then rushed their son to a hospital, but the doctors declared him brought dead on arrival.
 
 Police said they received a call about the incident at 9pm, after which they formed a team to nab the accused. “We immediately registered a case and efforts were made to nab the accused. He was later arrested from his house,“ said Milind Dumbere, DCP (north west).
 
 The boy's mother added that the driver had also been threatening to kill her after the boy died, saying that he will lock her inside the car and set it on fire. Police however, have not confirmed this.
 
 
 
 
