NEW DELHI: The Samajwadi Party-Congress tie up in Uttar Pradesh could result in a 30% vote share for the duo in the state polls, and if pollsters are to be believed, that may be more than enough for Akhilesh Yadav to remain in Lucknow's  . 

 As part of the alliance, the   will get to contest 105 seats, while the SP will contest all the other 298 seats. Formidable as this alliance looks and sounds, the   doesn't seem overly bothered. 
 
 The party's state unit president Keshav Prasad   told timesofindia.com that the "lotus will bloom in Uttar Pradesh again".
 
  "I want to advise Akhilesh Yadav to not only tie up with the Congress but to also try his luck with the BSP. The BJP will still be able to win 300 (of the 403 seats) in Uttar Pradesh," Maurya said.
 
 "The Congress-SP tie up is no cause for worry. One of them is a protector of the 'gundas' and the other protects the corrupt," Maurya added. 
 
 The BJP Uttar Pradesh unit president and MP from Phulpur said these alliances are in reality targeted at the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
  "Everyone is aiming to stop the BJP and Modiji. Everyone knows that if BJP wins in UP, then no one will be able to stop Modiji from returning to power in 2019. These alliances are being formed to stop Modij from winning a second term in 2019. But I believe that the people are with PM Modi and the BJP and they will not be successful." Maurya said.
 
 The BJP MP said that all efforts to prop Akhilesh as a chief minister with a clean image will fail. As for the internal SP bickerings, those are nothing but 'family drama', he said. 
 
 "I've been continuously saying that this was planned to make Akhilesh Yadav look good. The truth is that he is amongst the most ineffective chief ministers of this country. In his tenure, the blood of innocent people has been shed in Uttar Pradesh and there is no detergent that can help clean those stains."
  
 Uttar Pradesh will vote in a seven-phase election for its 403 seats, on February 11, 15, 19, 23 and 27, and on March 4 and 8. Votes will be counted for the state and four others - Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa - on March 11. 
 
