VARANASI: Though the Congress is yet to announce its list of candidates for  , the party is going ahead with ‘anti-demonetisation’ weapon to draw people’s support in the poll. The   seat  , who had begun his political journey on Bharatiya Janata Party ticket with three wins in a row in UP assembly elections from 1996 to 2007, is today spearheading a war against his ‘alma mater’ on the issue of demonetisation. 

 “We will keep raising our voice against demonetisation and continue our agitation in a democratic way on this issue,” said Rai, who had destroyed the red bastion of CPI in erstwhile Kolasla constituency by defeating nine time winner of CPI MLA Udal in 1996. After three successive wins for BJP he continued to represent Kolasla as an independent MLA in 2009 by poll, and later as Congress MLA in 2012 from Pindra seat that came into existence after Kolasla constituency ceased to exist post-delimitation.
 
 After delimitation in 2008 major portion of Kalasla was merged with newly created Pindra constituency. Rai maintained his influence in Pindra even fter quitting BJP. In 2009, he resigned from legislative assembly and contested Lok Sabha elections from Varanasi on Samajwadi Party ticket against BJP's Murli Manohar Joshi. But, he lost getting the third position after Joshi and Mukhtar Ansari. After defeat in parliamentary election he contested the bypoll from Kolasla as an independent, and won. After the Kolasla constituency ceased to exist post-delimitation, Rai won the Pindra seat in 2012 UP election on Congress ticket by defeating Jai Prakash of Bahujan Samaj Party. The Congress also fielded him against BJP's prime-ministerial nominee Narendra Modi in 2014 Lok Sabha election, but he lost the battle. 
 
 Today, Rai is one of the most vocal critics of the PM Modi. “His promises like cleaning the holy Ganga and making Varanasi a Kyoto were nothing but an eyewash," he said adding the demonetisation is the most irresponsible and anti-people decision taken by the PM. It is not only badly affecting common man’s living but also country’s economy. The PM misled the nation in the name of putting a check on black money and corruption, he added.
  
 With the ‘anti-demonnetisation tool’ the Congress is looking forward to expand its base in the district by stirring people’s sentiment. Presently, out of eight assembly constituencies the Congress has only one seat. Congress insiders believe that even a slight increase in party’s base in Varanasi will be a moral defeat to the PM, who represents this seat in parliament. 
 
