BHUBANESWAR: The smartest city of the country will introduce   (PBS) system for its residents to fulfil its commitment towards  . According to the plan, 1,200 cycles will be kept at 120 cycle docking stations across the city. 

 The Bhubaneswar Development Authority, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and   (BSCL) will implement the project. "The   (WRI) and Bhubaneswar Urban Knowledge Centre (BUKC) will be knowledge partners for the project to make the city greener," said city mayor Anant Narayan Jena. 
 
 He said city will be divided into four major zones- educational institution, heritage, central business district and residential colonies - for PBS implementation. Minimum distance between two docking stations has been kept as 500 metres. There will be eight stations in one square km area and coverage area of a zone will be 15 square km, he added.
 
 Jena said a third party will operate the cycle stations. "We will float a tender for the project soon. Then we will finalize cost structure and other components," he added. 
 
 A presentation was made on Thursday in this regard.   of the WRI, a global research organization, said the docking stations will be developed next to existing bus stops. 
 
 She said the operating cost, incurred by the service provider, will be partly subsidised by the state government. The operating revenue, however, will come from users, advertisement revenue from the rented space at the docking stations and annual cycle events by the operator. However, the sponsorship rights will be with the government, she added.
 
 Bankim Kalra, project director of BUKC, said the proposed common payment card under the smart city proposal can be used along with the conventional cash-based transactions for the sharing of the cycles. One need not come back to the starting point to return the cycle. A user can submit it at the nearest docking station, he added.
 
 Cities like Paris have PBS system with 4,000 cycles, London has 8,300 and Montreal 5,120. Similarly, Indian cities like Karnal (200), Bhopal (500), Mysore (550) and Ahmedabad (200) have such system. 
 
