Aurangabad: The civic body on Tuesday decided to cross check all the bills raised by the solid waste management and health department in the last three years after the two recent cases of fake bills was brought to their notice recently. 

 Raising doubts about the bills issued by these department in last three years, Om Prakash Bakoria municipal commissioner, said that the possibility of more fake bills cannot be ruled out. 
 
 “I will look into the matter and examine the entire procedure of clearing bills of these two departments. Recently, a private contractor had submitted a   and made a futile attempt to collect the payment,” he said. 
 
 Apart from this, Bakoria said that a departmental enquiry has been set up to find out whether the civic body employees or officers were party to the fake bill cases. “A committee conducting the enquiry in this regard is expected to submit its report within a day or two,” he said adding that he would initiate strict action against those involved. 
 
 When asked whether he has fixed the responsibility of fake bills on any officer or clerk, Bakoria said he is waiting for the committee report. “If it is found that someone is involved in the case, he/she will face tough action. We will not tolerate anybody’s negligence,” he said. 
 
 Bakoria had convened a special meeting of the civic body’s   department here on Tuesday. In the closed door meeting, the civic chief took all the senior officers in the department to task for the alleged loop holes in the billing and accounts section. 
 
 The accounts department on Friday foiled an attempt of a contractor who was trying to get the payment released by producing fake bill. The contractor had submitted the bill with forged signatures of municipal commissioner and medical helath officer Suhas Jagtap. 
 
 Doubting the bills and its contents, Sanjay Pawar, chief account officer in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ) on Friday brought the matter to the notice of the municipal chief, who cross-checked the bills and found it to be fake. According to the municipal authorities, the contractor has created a file in the name of Ajanta Pest Control and raised a bill of Rs 9.97 lakh. Apart from this, the authorities have also come across another forged bill raised by the same contractor on Monday.
 
 The members who attended the meeting also looked into other issues including budget preparation and open spaces that are owned by AMC but not in their name. Bakoria called upon the officials from the city survey office to speed up on the required formalities to change the registered name on the civic body owned open spaces. He has also instructed the accounts department to allot funds for select DP approved roads, so that the project can move ahead. 
 
 
