NEW DELHI: After getting repeated complaints about water shortage across the city, deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Monday blamed   government for the crisis.

 “Haryana has reduced the water supply to Delhi. I have asked the chief secretary to speak with Haryana’s chief secretary to ensure water supply is restored,” Sisodia tweeted on Monday evening.
 
 Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials said that Haryana releases close to 1,190 cusecs of water in the Wazirabad pond daily, but Since May 8 it has been releasing around 1,000 cusecs. The pond’s water level, which is maintained at 672.4 feet, has dropped by two feet. The utility supplies close to 900 million gallons water per day (MGD) to the city’s residents, but has been receiving close to 50 MGD less resulting in the crisis.
 
 Reaching out to the public on Twitter, DJB said: “Due to acute drop of pond level in   and reduced supply of water in CLC, the production of water from 3rd 40 MGD plant at Wazirabad has been curtailed up to 30%.”
 
 Anurag Rastogi, Haryana’s irrigation department principal secretary, said, “We have not stopped supply of water to Delhi and there have been no instructions from the government or any other authority in this regard. I would be able to comment after taking stock of the situation on Tuesday.”
 
 The shortfall in supply has resulted in low water pressure in areas like Walled City, NDMC, Mukherjee Nagar, Model Town, Rajouri Garden, Adarsh Nagar, Timarpur, Kingsway Camp, Azadpur, among other places in north Delhi.
 
 In Model Town, Mukherjee Nagar and neighbouring areas, water supply has been erratic. People here have been ordering water from vendors. “The demanded for potable water has gone up due to acute shortage of regular supply,” said a resident of Model Town. DJB officials said that low pressure in water supply will remain till Tuesday.
 
 DJB officials said that they met their counterparts in Haryana government last week to discuss the issue. “We have spoken to Haryana officials about the problem. The supply has reduced as the water level in Hathnikund Barrage has dropped. This is a recurring problem every year during summers. We hope to resolve the situation within a couple of days,” said a senior DJB official.
 
 
