Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: A glum combination of factors, including demonetization and crop failure, has cast a pall of gloom on the   celebrations this year. With just two days to go for the festival, bustling shopping destinations like Poomarket and Ramanathapuram still wore a deserted look. The situation is more pronounced in rural areas, where many farmers prefer a low-key celebration just to maintain the traditions.
 
 While large stocks of Poolaippoo, Avarampoo and sugarcane arrived at Poomarket on Mettupalayam Road through Wednesday night and Thursday morning, the number of shoppers remained thin. Many shopkeepers were in downbeat even as stocks brought all the way from Anaikatti, Mettupalayam and Dharmapuri were being unloaded. 
 
 “I brought five tonnes of sugarcane on Tuesday to set up shop here,” said G Govindarajan from Dharmapuri. “But only half a tonne has been sold till Thursday,” Govindarajan said. Though he is charging Rs 100 for two sticks, he is willing to reduce the price to Rs 70 for four sticks. “It is a very average year in terms of business,” said another sugarcane dealer, G Murugesh. Turmeric stocks, required for Kaapu Katu, from Erode were yet to arrive.
 
 The situation is same with the sales of flowers and clay pots. “Business during Pongal is down by at least 50% this year,” says the owner of Prabhakaran Flower Stall on the road. 
 
 “Despite us charging only Rs 5 for a roll of Avarampoo and Rs 10 for a roll of Poolaipoo, almost Rs 4 lesser than last year, we are left with unsold stocks. I brought 50 rolls last night, and I’m still left with 25 rolls of Avarampoo and five rolls of Poolaipoo,” says Rathina Raja, who brought in stocks from Mettupalayam. “I was expecting to bring fresh stocks by Thursday evening, if everything got sold out,” she says. 
 
 A group of women from Anaikatti say they usually make around Rs 6,000 by the day before Bhogi, but their earnings have hardly crossed Rs 2,000 as off Thursday afternoon.
 
 The shop-keepers say the difference is more marked in rural areas and farming belts. “In Mettupalayam, it looks like people have not begun their Pongal celebrations,” says Raja.
 
 Farmers say they can’t be blamed in the current situation. “Honestly, I have nothing much to harvest. I will be surprised if I get back the money I have invested,” says T Sampath, a banana farmer from Karamadai. “I am going to incur loss. So, I will do the basic celebrations for tradition and to thank God and at least pray for more rains next year,” he said. 
 
 
