HYDERABAD: SHE Shuttle, a bus service for women employees of IT firms, has less takers in the city with only 30 per cent of women currently using it.   have blamed the lack of regularity and availability of the buses in the  as the reason. Many IT professionals in Hi-Tec City area have said that,   is of little use to them, as most of the time, the buses are irregular. “Initially the service was good.

  However, currently the buses are very irregular that I have ended up using cab. The application is also not showing the schedule chart of buses,” said M Susmitha, an IT professional from Hi-Tec City. The bus service was launched by the Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) in association with the   and the Telangana government in 2015. However, the application of the bus service can only be accessible for employees of 150 firms registered with SCSC, but the service is open to use by all the women employees in the city. “In rare cases women are using the service, as the bus timings are very irregular.
 
  None of the buses are on time. A few of my friends who were using the service had also complained about the same irregularity. The initiative was good, however, the number of buses are so less, that most of the women in the IT corridor have to end up using cabs or auto-rickshaws as the timing does not match or the bus do not arrive on time,” said A Pravallika, a member of IT professional forum of Hyderabad. 
 
 Currently only four 'She Shuttle' bus services are available in the city, which can accommodate nearly 50 women in each bus. However, there are over 10,000 women working in the IT corridor. “Nearly 30 per cent employees of about150 firms under SCSC are presently using the service. Though the bus gives application access to only employees of those 150 firms, the bus provides service to all the women in the IT corridor.
 
  Any woman can use the service,” said SCSC secretary Bharani Kumar Aroll. However, IT professionals have claimed the number to be far lesser than what the SCSC has claimed, as several women have stopped using it. “Even though I registered with the application, every time I try to log the app stops responding. This application is useless,” said Sarika N, another user of the application. The users have said that, there have been cases when the application has shown incorrect   of buses.
 
