MEERUT: In November last year,   Qureshi, owner of a slaughterhouse in Bulandshahr was forced to shut shop and send his 400-odd employees to their native villages for 55 days after demonetisation. Unable to buy buffaloes due to notebandi, Qureshi was forced to down shutters for the first time. He reportedly suffered losses worth Rs 30 lakh. “We buy buffaloes from the local markets in rural areas. Sellers there do not use credit cards and we did not have cash,” he said.

 Qureshi reopened the abattoir on January 8, only to shut the legal slaughterhouse again two and a half months later. CM Aditya Nath Yogi’s crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses and curbs on mechanised abattoirs has led to an unprecedented closure of several units in the state.
 
 “There has been no supply of buffaloes. Earlier, there would be around 3,000 of these animals. Now, there are only 30. Farmers are not bringing the buffaloes to the markets because they are worried of being targeted by organisations such as the  . I have been forced to shut the slaughterhouse again,” said the 44-year-old owner.
 
 Though cow slaughter is banned in UP, there is no prohibition in slaughtering buffaloes. But sources said that even those who are slaughtering buffalos on their own are not able to sell the meat because authorities enquire about the source of any consignment of meat being transported anywhere.
 
 There are 179 slaughterhouses in UP, of which 134 are run by the government. However, 113 of them were closed much before the crackdown started. Of the 45 in the private sector, 36 were operational. In 2014-15, 60 million tonnes of meat were exported from India, of which UP’s contribution alone was 11 million tonnes.
 
 Two major meat export units here, belonging to (former MP) Shahid Akhlaq and (BSP leader) Yakub Qureshi have also been shut down.
 
 “Suppliers are scared of action by vigilantes,”he added. He also claimed that government agencies were responsible in building fear among those involved in the industry. “They visit slaughterhouses almost on a daily basis. They have checked my license multiple times. They are only creating fear,” he said.
 
 
