BATHINDA: The   (PSPCL) is showing extra zeal in recovering dues from defaulters after the assembly elections. The corporation has started disconnecting power supply in Lambi assembly constituency, which is represented by Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, and at some places in Muktsar district. 

 Sources said influential defaulters in Lambi and Muktsar have assured the PSPCL of clearing the dues in the next few days. There are reportedly over 5,000 defaulters in Lambi area alone.
 
 Sources said the PSPCL's Muktsar distribution circle avoided disconnecting power supply as the area was being represented by the CM. But after the elections, the corporation officials have gone into an overdrive to recover the outstanding amount.
 
 A couple of days ago, power connection of Parminder Singh Kolianwali, who is SAD's Muktsar unit chief Dyal Singh Koliawali's son, was cut for not paying nearly Rs 23 lakh for over two years. Power supply of Mahal Singh of Kolianwali village was also disconnected on February 17 for not paying Rs 1.1 lakh to the PSPCL. Mahal had offered his land to AAP to hold a rally in December 2016, where former Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh's candidature from Lambi assembly constituency was announced by the party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal.
 
 Parminder, however, disputed the PSPCL claim. He said, "We are to pay around Rs 4 lakh while the corporation is showing Rs 23 lakh as dues. We will check the details."
 
 In her affidavit submitted while filing the nomination papers, Muktsar MLA Karan Kaur Brar of the   had shown dues payable to the PSPCL at Rs 7.62 lakh in the name of her late husband. Officials said the family contested the dues, but later assured to pay this. 
 
 A PSPCL officer said an Akali leader from Lambi, Mandeep Singh Tarmala, avoided disconnection by paying dues of Rs 1 lakh on February 16. Late Akali leader Iqbal Singh Tarmala's family, which owed nearly Rs 4 lakh to the PSPCL, has assured to pay the dues on Monday or Tuesday. The office of a political party in Muktsar also has dues totallig nearly Rs 3 lakh and has assured the authorities about paying it soon. 
 
 Deputy chief engineer (Muktsar distribution circle) of the PSPCL G C Singla said, "It is not a special drive as such instructions are issued from time to time."
 
 
