Twenty-three-odd taxis, polished to a sheen, stand ready for the day at their designated parking spot near Lohia Maidan in Margao. These black and yellow cabs are a legacy of a simpler time, when commuters didn’t think twice to share a vehicle with a complete stranger, to make it to their common destination on time. The route and the fare is fixedfrom the now defunct monetary system of ‘anna’ to three ‘escudos’ (during the Portuguese regime) to Rs 1 and now Rs 20. 

 These taxis traverse directly to Colva beach from Margao city and back, ferrying up to eight passengers per trip. Although   operators insist they take ‘only six passengers per trip’. Their clientèle are local residents as well as tourists.
 
 Senior taxi driver Antonio Falcao told TOI, “Sharing-taxis have been plying since the Portuguese regime with around 10 taxis operating then. During that era, Morris cars ruled the scene, followed by Volkswagen and Fiats. Now only Ambassadors have survived and, after Goa was liberated, the Indian government directed that we paint the vehicles yellow-black so as to notify them as government-approved cabs.”
 
 Another taxi operator, Ajit Kenkre, said his relative, late Jaganath Kenkre, along with late Roque de Mello, late Roque Aguiar, late Washington Ferrao of Chinchinim and others were the founders of this unique taxi service that always plied along the Margao-Colva route.
 
 Cab driver Robert Dias said that sharing-cabs using Tata vehicles is prevalent along the Usgao route in Ponda taluka. But the drawback of these taxis is that they do not leave promptly with one or two passengers since these drivers always wait for their vehicle to be filled to full capacity of eight passengers.
 
 Moreover, stiff opposition by taxi operators who enjoy monopoly along the Margao-Colva route have led to many transport operators putting off plans to start a direct bus service to Colva. This has forced many daily commuters to now purchase their own vehicle as private buses ply to Colva via Benaulim although the KTC has recently commenced their service on this route mainly for the benefit of school students around 2pm.
 
 
