BHUBANESWAR: The Railways will redevelop Puri and   stations under the   (ECoR) zone in   (PPP) mode. Proposals for the projects will be invited by this month-end,   said. 

 These two stations are among 33 in the country selected by the Railway Board for redevelopment. The Visakhapatnam railway station, also under ECoR, has been shortlisted for redevelopment in phase-I about three months ago. The Bhubaneswar railway station does not figure in the list because the state government will develop it, official sources said. 
 
 The two stations will have food courts, malls, multiplexes and other commercial establishments besides beautiful buildings, parking lot and lawns. According to procedures, the Railways will invite development proposals for the stations from any individual or company. Later a committee appointed by the Railways will select the best proposal and ask bidders to submit their detailed project reports keeping the best proposal in mind. The lowest bidder will get the project, said a senior officer. 
 
 In their proposal, they will give preliminary designs, drawings for railway station, detailed bill of quantities, pricing and costing for undertaking the project. Altogether 6.42 acre of land is available in Puri and 1.62 acre at Cuttack station for the project. 
 
 The private party will develop the vacant land and space of stations at their own cost. The firm would be given rights for commercial exploitation of the station land for a period of 45 years, while the ownership of the land will remain with the railways. They may build business establishments like hotels, multiplexes and shopping malls on the station land by paying a premium to the railways, official sources said. 
 
 "We have model papers and bid documents ready with us as we have done preparatory work for Visakhapatnam station already. Process for initiating bidding proposals and holding consultation with stakeholders will start soon. We are hopeful of getting favourable response," said ECoR chief public relations officer J P Mishra. 
 
 
