What’s the fun in saying ‘I do,’ just the way everyone has been doing it for decades?

 Kerala has become the melting pot of novel wedding ideas of late, going by the numerous unconventional weddings that are happening in the State. On   today, Kochi Times gives a low down on a few quirky weddings that caught our attention in the recent past:
 
 
 
 
 A few years ago Nikil Pawar from Maharashtra and Eunika Pogran from Slovakia met on the beaches of Kovalam. Their bond grew stronger overtime and they decided to finally ‘take the plunge’ in an  , the first of its kind in the country!
 On Republic Day this year, a one-hour ceremony saw them exchanging wedding vows through sign language, on a podium under the sea. And thus, one of the most romantic locations in the world also witnessed a water wedding! 
 
 
 
 
 After businessman Ravi Pillai’s daughter’s pompous wedding made headlines across the country last year, the State witnessed yet another big fat wedding a few months back. Hotelier Biju Ramesh’s daughter Megha tied the knot with veteran politician Adoor Prakash’s son Ajaykrishnan in a lavishly decorated venue in Trivandrum, resembling Delhi’s Akshardham temple. The wedding feast had about 100 dishes and the eight-acre venue had about 2,000 guests including politicians, actors, religious leaders and more, complete with cultural programmes by renowned artistes.
 
 
 
 
 For over a century, these banyan and mango trees have been ‘living together’ in a school compound and finally, everyone around them realised their love and decided to get the ‘couple’ married! And not in any symbolic, simple ceremony, but in a full-fledged wedding function complete with a printed invite, musical instruments, rituals, wedding attires, thali and flower garlands, and what’s more, a sumptuous sadya!
  The one-of-a-kind wedding ceremony, organised by nature lovers and a school management took place in Kottayam district a couple of days ago and about 300 people attended the function. While the banyan wore a Kerala mundu the mango tree looked pretty in a dark green silk sari!
  Well, the ceremony has a history behind it. In the past, such acts were apparently conducted to honour trees — which are also living beings. Villagers believed that two trees combined would invite a lot of birds and thus would rid the fields of insects on the fields, thus improving the yield. 
 
 
 
 When Sruthi Krishna from Wayanad and Ramnath from Alappuzha got married in May last year, they decided to forgo some boring and dated conventions of usual weddings. Not only did they ditch gold ornaments and embraced those made of grain and cereal, they also did away with an extravagant ‘fat’ wedding. The highlight of the event was a wedding witness with a difference! Probably for the first time in the State, a transgender served as the witness for the wedding of this couple. Activist Sheetal Shyam was the primary witness of the ceremony in a register office and what’s more, all the other official witnesses too were women. 
 
 
 
 What do you do when you fail to get leave to attend your own wedding? Harris, an NRI marketing manager from Kollam, decided to get married virtually rather than change the date. Harris works in Saudi Arabia and was to marry Shamla Makkayil, a nurse, in December. Their D-date was fixed well in advance but due to the prevailing unfavourable job situation in Saudi Arabia, he couldn’t get leave on time for his wedding. However, that didn’t stop the families from conducting the ceremony. His sister tied the thali for the bride on his behalf, while Harris watched the wedding ceremony, online. And that’s how technology bridges distances, for real!
 
