An estimated one in seven couples in India have fertility issues and sadly, more often than not, there is no known medical explanation, say doctors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “It has been found that around 10 per cent of the general population suffers from some form of  . Researchers say that   who are undergoing high levels of stress are 29 per cent less likely to get pregnant each month, than those women with lower stress levels,” says fertility specialist Dr  . Experts reiterate that the physiological effects of stress cannot be ignored and might play a relatively big role in conception. 
 Stress is one of the most overused words among the urban population world over. And it’s not just the case with women. Gynaecologist and IVF specialist Dr  , says, “Men who work in night shifts are more affected when it comes to fertility issues as compared to men working in regular shifts since their biological clock is badly disturbed. They sleep during the day and to keep themselves awake during the night, they often smoke, which damages the system further. Stress at the work place and sitting for long hours at work stations is also found to reduce sperm count.” 
 Gynaecologist and IVF specialist Dr  , says, “Stress puts the body in ‘fight or flight’ mode from an evolutionary perspective and activates the sympathetic nervous system.” This leads to the production of fat promoting hormones cortisol and insulin that cause weight gain. It also disrupts the body’s hunger regulating hormones causing one to eat more.”
 
 
 Women are often found to be more stressed than men. “Repeated failure to conceive puts more pressure on already stressed women. But thanks to technology, today, we have treatment for infertility through IVF or IUI. But it is advisable that women as well as men also try stress management techniques to overcome this problem because natural conception is always the preferred method,” adds Dr Anubha.
 
 
 
 Young working women experience prolonged periods of frustration due to unsuccessful attempts at conception. Clinical psychologist   says, “Often, this leads to marital stress further translating into personal sense of loss or failure. Infertility is often accompanied by psychological and emotional distress, frustration, sense of incompetency, jealousy, trauma and even depression.” 
 Most women with infertility report symptoms of heightened anxiety, depression, fear that they will never have children. Infertility is associated with negative feeling of helplessness leading to chronic stress. These symptoms and negative beliefs actually hamper fertility in women.
 
 
 
 Experts say that there is a difference between constant stress and sudden stress, and it affects fertility in very different ways. Ovulation might still occur despite constant high stress because bodies are likely to acclimatise. However, sudden stress, like a death in the family, might interfere with the ovulation cycle. Doctors add that this may vary from one individual to another — for some women a simple weekend trip can hamper ovulation while a traumatic incident might not affect it at all. Also, negative stress is not the sole bad guy here. In fact, bridal jitters can also interfere with ovulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Of every 100 couples reporting to fertility clinics, 40 per cent are cases of male infertility, 50 per cent are of women, and the remaining 10 per cent of both partners being infertile. India has a population of over 1.2 billion; the number of Indians suffering from infertility is huge.
 
