Despite several protests and legal arguments, homosexuality in India continues to be much talked about. And what better way to stand up to the issue than have a live performance involving two men portraying the physical intimacy between them?  , dancer and choreographer, says that   aims to challenge the socio-political context of homosexuality in the country. BT caught up with Mandeep and discussed the performance and the idea of homosexuality in India. Excerpts:

 
 
 I came across an article by (activist) Nishit Saran titled Why My Bedroom Habits Are Your Business and this made me realize that we don’t have a more responsive dance form challenging the argument of homosexuality, which is usually debated through protests or legal arguments. Currently we are surrounded by a cloud of censorship and I wanted to challenge that through dance. I wanted to challenge the socio-political context surrounding homosexuality. There hasn’t been a bodily argument for bodily desire. Queen Size is about performing intimacy on a charpoy and about giving perspective to queer activism in the country.
 
 
 
 It is a sensitive topic and that is exactly why I wanted to take it up. I wanted to have a conversation on homosexuality through dance. I did have fears, like if it was the right thing to do, but I went ahead with it. We have had 37 performances in 17 cities, but not once have we been disrupted.
 
 
 
 We leave the doors open while performing. People are free to walk out anytime they want or are welcome to sit and watch the performance at any point. We have had varied reactions. We have seen audience members walking out, people crying and several of them gushing about it. I have had people come to me after the performance, talking about their sexual orientation.
 
 
 
 The LGBT community has been immensely supportive. They feel that they have been represented. They have helped us set up in many cities and spread the word. As a growing and strengthening community, we have received positive feedback from them.
 
 
 
 We have received all kinds of reactions. We underestimate people from smaller towns; I was surprised that Queen Size was received well in smaller cities. It is a wrong notion that people from smaller towns are conservative, but such reactions have come out of bigger cities. When we first performed in Bengaluru, it was during a dance festival and Queen Size was perceived as a dance performance. This time, however, it’s going to be different, so I am eager to see the reactions.
 
 — Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
