The statewide resident   started petering out by Friday midnight, following an eventful day of negotiations between senior doctors and CM  , and the Bombay high court's intervention.

 “The doctors, on strike for five days, have agreed to join work. PG students of BJ Medical College in Pune, JJ in Byculla and KEM in Parel resumed duty at 12am,“ said Dr Yadh wardhan Kabra, president, Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD).“Everyone is joining. Medical services will normalise as Saturday progresses.“ KEM Hospital's dean Dr Avinash Supe said, “Our resident doctors have started signing the muster.“
 
 It was unclear till very late on Friday if the strike would be called off. For one, it had become evident during the week that MARD is a fractured organisation. Despite an ultima tum by the Bom bay high court and tough talk by the chief minister, it wasn't quite clear till very late on Friday if the state-wide resident doctors' strike would end.
 
 It had become evident during the week that the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), the main representative of the state's PG medical students for over 35 years, is a fractured organisation and there were several power centres among the mass of the doctors on strike. MARD said in the evening that it had “failed to convince“ most colleagues to rejoin. Also, a majority of the 3,400 PG students on strike had not joined till very late despite chief minister De vendra Fadnavis appealing to them with folded hands to resume work. The CM's request and later an outburst were followed by the high court giving an ultimatum: resume work by 8am, Saturday , or risk punitive measures, including termination, by the state and civic bodies. An upset Fadnavis even warned of legal action.
 
 KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe said he hopes doctors understand their demands have been met. He said security at hospitals has been tightened. There are visible changes on all campuses. Gates are manned by private guards, who have started screening patients' belongings.“Patients are not being allowed entry without a pass,“ Dr Supe said. But resident doctors feel the measures may disappear as soon as they return to work.
 
 A new set of doctors' representatives met medical education minister Girish Mahajan late on Friday and assured him they would consider calling off the strike after going through a signed copy of the minutes of the meeting. During the day , the Indian Medical Association (IMA) called off its one-day protest after discussions with Fad navis, where resident doctors were not allowed to be present.This angered the students, who thought their plight was lost in the bargain. “It was not the IMA 's strike to begin with. They are free to support and leave us,“ a resident doctor said.
 
 By Friday , services at all public medical colleges in the state, including five in Mumbai, had come to a standstill, with only emergency services being offered. KEM, which treats 7,000 OPD patients per day , attended to just 800 on Friday .
 
 Addressing the assembly , the CM said doctors could not leave patients to die. “For common people, a doctor is like god.If you leave patients to die, people will consider you as the devil. What if people lose their control? How many days can the government can bear this?“ he said. In an outburst of sorts, he said, “Enough is enough. If doctors keep agitating and leaving patients to die, what would be the difference between them and patients' relatives who beat up doctors? Why should negligence cases not be filed against doctors?“ He promised that if doctors are attacked on duty , they will be treated as government servants. “Their medical and legal expenses will be borne by the state,“ he said.
 
