BHOPAL: In a belated, but welcome move,   ( ) is set to introduce automated synchronised traffic lights in the state capital. The step is likely to cut travel time on major routes, going by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) and traffic police preparations. This apart, two other circular intersections in the city – Lal Ghati and JP hospital intersection are set to give way to signalised junctions.

 Simply put,   are synchronised for a timed passing through two intersections. For instance, vehicles coming straight from on Link Road 1 pass through Vyapam square would also get a green light on Board Office intersection, saving time and easing traffic congestion.
 
 “The signals would be timed, calculating the average speed. Our aim is to make for less stoppage between signals for smooth flow of traffic,” said a BMC official.
 
 Indications are road intersection with 3,000 or more passenger car unit (PCU) per hour will have to do away with rotaries. A proposal to remove some 10 more rotaries is likely to be introduced in BMC budget.
 
 “Currently, traffic signals do not have a backup of their synchronisation. Every time, there is a power outage or a traffic light is switched off, setting has to be reconfigured,” said ASP (traffic) Sameer Yadav. The traffic police is planning real-time monitoring of traffic flow and synchronisation of traffic lights, he says.
 
 If all goes as per plan, Bhopal’s traffic may also get an intelligent traffic signal system, a key component of   development plan.
 
 Bhopal has about 50 major traffic intersections and most of them are not just of sync, but many are without functional traffic lights.
 
 “Once signals are automated to manage traffic flow, it would lead to better monitoring and less congestion on roads,” he says.
 
 Traffic department and the BMC have also placed two new signals along Link Road 1. “These sections of Link Road 1 have witnessed major accidents. Our aim is to reduce speed of vehicles on the road and make road safer,” he says.
 
 Some experts have been critical of the move to introduce more signals along Link road 1. “The planning flaws of the BRTS wherein some place bus stop is along central verge and other places like Link Road 1 where bus stop is on the left, have led to the situation. We need a re-look at the BRT system,” said a retired urban planning expert.
 
 A phased roll-out of traffic signals was planned in BRT corridor. It required coordination with traffic police. A strict implementation of traffic rules was cited as a primary requirement in initial phase under the BRT scheme. Poor execution of BRT corridor along Sadar Manzil to Peer Gate has led to two-way plying in that area.
 
 
