HYDERABAD: Hours after midnight, police swooped in on outsourced nurses protesting at   for the second day and detained 90 of them. The nurses, who were demanding regularisation of their servies, were detained around 2am on Sunday, but were later let off around 6pm.

 The protesting nurses, who were on hunger strike on the eighth floor of Gandhi Hospital, were arrested by the police and taken to Bolarum police station, around 10 kilometres away from Gandhi Hospital. Chilakalguda police station is nearest to the Hospital. The move to take them away from the hospital was to ensure they did not create a scene when Telangana health minister Dr C Laxma Reddy visited the hospital on Sunday morning to inaugurate a dialysis centre donated by  .
 
 “Without food and water for more than 24 hours, four nurses fell unconscious as they were feeling giddy at Bolarum police station. They were shifted to a private hospital nearby for treatment,“ said V  , a nursing staff member, also the working president of Telangana medical contract employees and workers' union. The detained nurses were let off around 6pm from the Bolarum police station.
 
 The remaining 120 other outsourcing nurses, who were not arrested by the police, stayed back at the Gandhi Hospital to represent their case before the health minister, but could not get any positive assurance on their demands. “Our primary demand is regularisation of all the 210 outsourced nurses working at Gandhi Hospital. If this is not possible, we requested the government to give them appointment on direct contract instead of using them as outsourced staff,“ said M Narasimha, Hyderabad general secretary of the  , which is spearheading the current protest.
 
 Outsourced nursing staff leaders expressed fears that even 10 years of experience at Gandhi Hospital would not be taken into account. Worse, there is no word yet from the government on the matter of their salary hike. “We want equal pay for equal work as per the   judgment. We are now getting `17,500 but we are actually entitled to receive `28,000,“ said Meghamala.
 
 The agitating nurses have not yet taken a decision on whether they will extend their stir beyond two days after Sunday's detention of their members.
 
