
I want to tell you about a unique flowering plant which has played a life changing role for me.
 
 I got a sapling of this plant last year quite by chance when I was in Jeti tea garden in the foothills of  . It was growing outside my bedroom and had an irresistible scent which ambushed me and pulled me outdoors. That is how I chanced upon this exquisite plant early one morning. To my surprise and awe, I saw delicate jasmine like, though somewhat larger, flowers in three vibrant colours on it. I realized as I watched it for the next few days that they were not flowers of three different grafting on the plant but a flower which changed colour over time. A vibrant purple at first bloom, it turned mauve first, then cream. That made it truly entrancing and unique. It was like seeing life unfold before me. A ravishing young girl grown mellow with years then serene in her prime; each stage marked by a distinctive colour and fragrance. As the flower changed colour, its fragrance did not abate but grew more piquant. Like life lived to the brim.
 
 I asked the numerous gardeners of the estate for its name but the only reply I got was, oh you mean the fragrant plant. That imbued it with a mystical quality. The nameless one! My hosts gave me a sapling as a parting gift. I hugged it to my heart with a gnawing suspicion that it would not thrive in the extreme climate of Delhi, the opposite of the moist cool clime of Jeti in the Bhutan foot hills, with a rainfall in close competition with Cherapunji. 
 
 And sure enough the whole of last year it lay dormant except for two flowers, which tantalized me like a remembered melody, which rings like a refrain in your head but eludes you when you try to hang on to it. 
 
 But this year in March as I lay seriously ill, with thoughts only of death in my mind, the plant decided to teach me about life. It first sprouted purplish green foliage then innumerable blossoms burst forth. It just bloomed and bloomed and so quickly did the fresh flowers emerge and the older ones change colour that I always saw the flowers in three colours. The sudden bounty of colour and the exhilarating fragrance made my illness more bearable. As my thoughts turned from death to life, I became obsessed with the desire to know its name.
 
 I put its picture on Facebook and other websites asking if anybody knew its name. I struck gold on the Women Writers Website. A wonderful and gracious writer, Mamta Chaudhery Fryer wrote from Paris, “Hi Mridula, it's definitely a Brunfelsia. We have several blooming in our garden right now. And you're very lucky that you got one of the fragrant varieties - we're still trying to find one of those." Brunfelsia? The name did not evoke the multi- hued melody I had heard in Jeti. Then I read the next line. Its popular name is Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow. Ah that was it! That was what had tantalized me as I lay ill, as I caught the glimpse of chance flowers before the year of bounty. 
 
 A flood of memories from way back swamps me; the name rings like a refrain... sometime... I had heard it somewhere pronounced again and again. I can't recall when or where but it doesn't matter... It is another name for life buzzing around me.
 
