 Patna: The ruling JD(U) statement on Sunday that it would continue supporting the Centre's demonetisation till the party reviews its stand in the last week of this month fuelled speculations in political circles again. The JD(U)'s extended deadline to review the Centre's decision came only three days after PM   praised   CM   for taking the "courageous step" to enforce prohibition in state. Nitish had also praised the PM for strongly implementing liquor ban in Gujarat during his 12 years' stint as the state CM. The two leaders had patted each other at function to celebrate the Prakashotsava of Guru Gobind Singh at Gandhi Maidan here on January 5.
  
  "Our party will remain engaged in forming the world's longest human chain on January 21 for highlighting the benefits of prohibition in the state and the birth anniversary celebrations of veteran socialist leader Karpoori Thakur on January 24. We have decided to postpone the JD(U) review on note ban till January 24. We will now review the issue in the last week of this month," JD(U) state president and   member Bashishtha Narayan Singh said, adding that things were coming back to normal and the difficulties faced by the people due to notebandi were diminishing.
  
  Reacting over Singh's statement, BJP's chief spokesperson Vinod Narayan Jha assertively said Nitish and his party would keep supporting the demonetisation, adding more fuel to the speculations about the growing bonhomie between   and Nitish.
  
  It is not for the first time that the JD(U) has extended the date to review its stand on note ban. Earlier, it had categorically announced to review its stand after December 30 or on completion of the 50-day period sought by the PM to set things right. Later, JD(U) national spokesperson K C Tyagi said since Bihar CM was deeply involved in organizing the Prakashotsava in Patna and Kalchakra Puja at  , the party would review its stand on note ban only after January 15.
  
  People will teach BJP a lesson: Bihar Cong chief
  
  Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president   on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP MPs would be taught a lesson by the people for facing the difficulties due to the note ban. "The BJP men will know the impact only when they visit the poor families, especially in rural areas," he said. Choudhary also said majority of the state population was still suffering due to the note ban. "Farmers are not able to sell their produce or buy fertilizers. Wherever the Union ministers or BJP leaders are going, they are feeling the heat of people's anger caused by note ban."
  
