Telugu janapada sahityamu is rich and diverse, and interspersed with folk tales, legends, songs and stories the oral tradition of Telangana is even richer. It is a storehouse of wisdom accumulated over hundreds and thousands of years. “There are more than 160 folk art forms in Telugu land. Telangana has larger number of art forms performed by traditional artist communities. Most of them have "Tyaagam" tradition, that is a right to get cash and kind from respective communities,” says NB Reddy, the director of Institute for Indian Folklore of Folklore Society of South Indian Languages. “Until the encroachment of electronic media these narratives and arts were the only source of recreation and education for the village folks. Each community had its own sub-community to narrate the stories or genealogies of the dominant community or caste. The sub-caste storytellers visit villages and narrate their stories. These stories tellers were dependent on the dominant communities for survival,” he adds.
Some of the important narrative communities are Addamsingvallu, Chinduvallu, Budige Jangaalu, Veedhi Bhagavatulu, Ganjikootivallu, Gondaleelu, Dasarivallu, Gollasuddulavallu, Ogguvallu, Mandechulu, Pichukakuntlu, Maladasarulu, Pondavulavallu, Sharadagallu and Matlevallu. These storytellers are spread across the Telangana mostly in Nizamabad, Medak, Karimnagar, Warangal, Khammam Nalgonda and Mahabubnagar districts.
  
 
 
 The study of the oral tradition is essential to be au fait with the life and philosophy of the rural masses. Dr  , an assistant professor and a visiting scholar of University of California Berkeley, USA, who recently completed an ICSSR-sponsored major research project on Lambada Bhat oral narratives observes, “In order to fully understand the community and its history, a detailed study of the songs or stories of that community is important. These oral narratives, of both individuals and community, are considered as genealogy. They are important resources to re-write history. The oral stories open up new possibilities of understanding the life and world of marginal communities, mostly neglected by the mainstream humanities and social sciences. They can’t technically be called history, they are basically imaginative negotiations with their past relevant to their contemporary lives and identities. Nevertheless, there is some truth in them. Even today these oral stories of these marginal communities remind them of their past, though they have no concept of history per se. Due to this ambiguous relationship with their past, we can say that these storytellers are genealogists, rather than simply storytellers; and that their preoccupation is with collective memory, rather than formal history.”
  
 
 
 These oral traditions are not just mere narratives. They served a greater purpose of uniting people for the cause of Telangana during the peasant movement of 1948 and the Telangana movement. “The oral tradition of Telangana helped in shaping up of the ideas influencing the ideologies of the people. During the first of its kind peasant movement in 1948 where the peasants rebelled against the Nizam, numerous folk songs inspired from the oral tradition were composed. After that in 1969, these songs were the uniting factor during the first phase of Telangana movement. By 2000 these songs became an essence of the movement. The oral tradition transformed from time to time as per the requirements and needs of the hour. They woke the Telangana people from slumber and made them aware of their rights. And now these folk songs have become an integral part of the state,” says  , director of Department of Language and Culture.
  
 
 
 “A quick examination of this oral literature gives an immense pride to the patrons and to the storytellers. But in the modern era, it has been seen as ‘primitive’ traditions. However, these stories emerge as a new area of knowledge in the twentieth century as embodying the entire panorama of traditional cultures, often carried through oral transmission, through performance and through material artifacts by the so-called ‘primitive people.’ But given the situation, due modernisation and globalisation oral literature and oral stories of these communities are disappearing. The oral stories are not alive because the listeners are dead. These storytellers are hardly seen in this modern era,” says Dr Vislavath Rajunayak.
 However, Harikrishna Mamidi has a different story to tell. “These oral traditions were neglected, side-lined and oppressed for the last six decades till 2000 because the rulers could not identify themselves with these rural art forms and appreciate the culture and sensibility of Telanganites. But during the Telangana movement and after emergence of the state, the greatest revival of these art forms have taken place. There was and is a cultural renaissance. Perini,  ,  , Hari Katha, Burra Katha, Sharda Kathalu have gained prominence again,” he says.
  
 
 
 Endangered or not, these oral traditions are in dire need to be compiled, recorded and archived in the wake of being lost forever. Researchers and scholars are doing their best to revive its former glory. “Telugu University, Warangal and few other universities in Telangana made an attempt to video record and tried to digitise some of the stories from these storytelling communities. Still, there is much more need to be done to compile these stories. State, researchers, and universities should also encourage storytellers to safeguard the richness of the oral traditions. The state must use the information technology to record in audio and video forms to preserve the dying down oral traditions to make it available to one’s dying day,” says Dr Vislavath Rajunayak.
 The government is doing its bit too, as Harikrishna Mamidi informs, “After the formation of Telangana state, the department of Language and Culture took the initiative to preserve, protect, promote and popularise these traditions. We have four ‘R’ strategies – Redefinition of the art forms, Restructuring of the system, Re-exploration and Rejuvenation. Endangered art forms are being revived. Documentaries are being made. We are organising training camps for Oggu Katha, Chindi Yakshagaanam, Jangaalu and other rural art forms to draw the attention of younger generation.”
 
 
 
 
 Patam katha
 Patam means paintings. Patam katha are scroll narratives narrating stories of the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the Puranas. Sometimes contemporary issues are also incorporated with mythological stories. There are around 12 forms of Patam katha.
 
 Hari katha 
 Literally meaning the stories of Lord Vishnu, the art form composed of storytelling and poetry narrates the stories of Narayana and Puranic stories.
 
 Oggu Katha
 With its roots set way back in history, it is generally performed by the Kuruma and the Yadava communities of Telangana who moved from place to place, narrating the stories of their caste gods. They tell the stories of Renuka Yellamma, Beerappa, Mallana and other rural deities. The tradition is also supported with certain dance moves, patnam (floor paintings) and is culminated with certain fetes or vinyasams.
 
 Burra katha
 Unlike   that is a tradition of the elite and educated, Buraktha is common people’s art form. It is known by different name in different regions; in Telangana, it is known as tamboorakatha, tandana katha and saradakatha. Most of the stories are kind of tributary to the freedom fighters. Bura is a musical instrument, a primitive form of mrudangam. The narratives, mostly derived from Ramayan and Mahabharat are told using the instrument.
 
 Gurram Vallu
 Attached to the Malas and the narratives recite the gotras and genealogy of the Malas.
 
 Chiruthala Ramayanam
 They recite episodes of the Ramayana while playing Chirutha
 
 Gaurajetty puranam
 It is a community related oral tradition related to Gaura community
 
 
 
 
 
