THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On a   5.2 bicycle with panniers to hold luggage and a board that reads‘#stepout: for a gender neutral India’,   reached the capital city on Thursday, after covering more than 4,000km.

 A software engineer by profession, Shruthi is on a mission to spread the message of gender neutrality.
 
 Hailing from Mysuru, she is a freelance consultant for adolescent education who began her cycle ride from Kashmir on February 8. She had been training and preparing for the ride from January and collected Rs 90,000 via crowd funding on social media.
 
 There is no hint of tiredness in her eyes, though she reached the city after a seven hour-long journey from Kollam. “I am passionate about cycling and wanted to convey the message of stepping out of your comfort zone and follow your heart. Not just women, but men are also prone to ‘stereotyping’ by the society,” said Shruthi.
 
 She has conducted sessions on   and adolescent education in government schools during the course of her journey, which would conclude on Friday. 
 
 Travelling through ten states, she has covered around fifteen schools. However, by the time she reached Kerala, schools in the state have been closed for year-end examination.
 
 Shruthi developed an interest in adventurous cycling while working with an IT firm in Bengaluru. Later, she was selected for Gandhi Fellowship offered by   in Rajasthan, following which she quit her job.
 
 This is the third time Shruthi has set out on a journey like this. She was part of Great Malnad Challenge and Himalayan ride (from Manali to Leh). Though she was accompanied by two friends, Anagha Balakrishnan and Rupert Fernandes till Goa, due to some technical issues she had to continue the journey alone.
 
 “The people here are quite friendly. Language was never a barrier as one word conversations and gestures helped convey the message. I also enjoyed the ride through the costal belt. Apart from the weather, there were no issues so far,” said Shruthi.
 
 So what next? Shruthi has a ready-made answer: “I wish to consolidate the data collected during the journey to launch a startup for adolescence education in my hometown.”
 
 
