MANALI: Like every winter, three   nestled near the   have turned into ghost towns yet again. Nearly 300 people from 47 families of Koksar, Dimpuk, and Ramthang villages in Lahaul have migrated to   of the state to escape the constant threat of avalanches, blizzards, and temperatures dipping to -20°C. 

 The villages, located at an altitude of 10,300 feet, experience lowest temperatures and highest snowfall in the state. In a cold year, snow can accumulate up to more than 10 feet. Because of the tough terrain and harsh weather, the villages remain cut off during winter. 
 
 For medical care, there's an ayurvedic health centre in Koksar, but it does not have a doctor. In case of an emergency, evacuation is a challenge and takes up to days at times. Telecom and electricity lines remain snapped for months. "Koksar was sanctioned a helipad many years ago, but it is yet to be built,"  , a resident of Koksar, said. At present in Koksar, the village is under 100cm of snow. "This can go up to 300cm by March," Kumar added. The nearest helipad is at Sissu, which is 14km from Koksar. However, walking is tough when there's 10 feet of snow over avalanche-prone portions.
 
 The residents say the government has deprived of basic facilities, and they have to move to other regions because of this. "Nobody is looking after our houses. We don't think that even a thief will dare to reach our village in winter," said Dorje, who has also migrated to Kullu with his family. "Who wants to leave his house without any serious reason? Our people say nobody will spend winter at home until Rohtang tunnel is built. We are hoping it will provide us all-weather connectivity. Some people have now built their second houses in Kullu to spend winter, while others stay here in rented rooms," he said.
 
 Talking about threats in their villages, Raju said the region had a lot of sliding points. "We are locked inside our houses because of the snow. A resident of Koksar cannot meet someone from neighbouring Dimpuk village unless the weather is favourable. The thundering sound of avalanches sends shiver down our spines every time," he said.
 
 Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner   has issued an advisory to the residents to stay indoors as there is forecast for heavy snowfall in next 48 hours. "People are advised to stock enough essentials like LPG, ration, firewood and medicines. In case of emergency, anybody can call on toll free number 1077 which connects them to district emergency operations centre," he said.
 
