THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The bribery allegations against   leaders in the state have punctured the corruption-free image projected by the   in the national political arena. It also proved wrong the central leadership’s efforts to silence the warring groups in the party state unit by anointing   as the state president Kerala.

 It was at the height of the factional feud between two groups — led by former state presidents V Muraleedharan and P K Krishnadas — that the central leadership brought in Rajasekharan, considered an RSS man, to the helm of BJP in Kerala, almost two years ago. 
 
 The entry of Kummanam to the top post in the party was seen as a prelude to RSS tightening its grip over the party affairs in Kerala. Though the emergence of Narendra Modi-Amit Shah rule in the BJP gave little scope for the factions to wage war against each other in open, the leak of the party inquiry committee report straight to the media rooms proved that the iron hands of the BJP national leadership had failed to control the bickering instincts of the party leaders in Kerala.
 
 Close on the heels of allegations of graft with regard to obtaining Medical Council of India nod for medical colleges several other scams have started surfacing. According to sources, BJP leaders in several districts are facing graft allegations. While a district general secretary of the party in Malappuram is accused of accepting Rs 10 lakh as bribe by promising bank job to a person, several corporation councillors of the party are under scanner for their undesirable camaraderie with business houses and middlemen.
 
 According to sources, the central leadership wants to completely overhaul the party machinery in the state. But they are unlikely to begin such a drive at this point. Since the opposition is trying to blow up the medical bribery allegations into a major   of national magnitude, the central leadership is unlikely to carry out drastic changes in the state leadership.
 
 “Drastic action against any prominent leaders would backfire on the central leadership. Hence, they might wait for the current furore to die down. But, the overhaul is certainly in the pipeline and many more heads will roll in the near future,’’ said sources.
 
 
