NAGPUR: As production of coal in the country has surpassed the demand, government is searching for new consumers for the surplus output. This was announced by Union minister of power, coal and renewable energy Piyush Goyal at a press meet on Friday. 

 Goyal was in the city along with Prime Minister  , who dedicated the 1980 MW unit of   super-critical thermal power project of Mahagenco to the nation. 
 
 Union minister of road transport, highways and shipping  , Union HRD minister   and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also attended the function.
 
 Though there was a plan to double the coal production by 2020 after the   government took over the charge in 2014, it is now observed that coal offtake is much lower that actual production, Goyal said and added that production by Coal India Ltd has gone up by 92 million tonne touching 554 million tonne. 
 
 “The government is now looking for new consumers for the surplus coal. We are open to the idea of exporting coal. However, there is also an issue related to the quality of coal as pollution generated from Indian coal is higher,” the minister said.
 
 In the domestic market, the surplus coal is being planned to be sold to such plants which are basically running on imported coal.
 
 Due to shortage of coal earlier, a number of power plants were set up to be run on the imported fuel, which can be now converted into using domestic coal, he said.
 
 The minister further said that the ministry of coal is planning to come up with a policy on commercial use of coal blocks by private parties. The draft has been put up on the ministry’s website for seeking public comments. 
 
 “So far, out of the 67 coal blocks whose allocation was cancelled by the government, 29 have been auctioned. Once the policy on commercial use is cleared, more blocks will be put up for auction too,” he said. 
 
 Goyal said so far captive use of coal blocks is allowed to the private entities. “This means it is only for self-consumption, like a power company can use the block it has acquired only in its own plant,” he said. Commenting on power cuts in UP continuing despite the overall generation having gone up, he said that the new government has just taken over there.
 
 
