CUTTACK: In a huge respite to former IIC of Pipili police station Amulya Champatiray,   (HC) has upheld the order of state administrative tribunal (SAT) quashing his dismissal in connection with   case in 2011. 

 The high court's order has paved way for reinstatement of Champatiray in police service.
 
 Champatiray was suspended on January 13, 2012, and later dismissed from service on January 24, 2012, for allegedly not registering or probing the case of a 19-year-old dalit girl, who was allegedly gang-raped and strangulated in November 2011 at Pipili in Puri district. 
 
 After remaining in coma for six months, the victim had succumbed in June 2012 at   in Cuttack. The incident had created a furore in the state then. Director general of police (DGP) had dismissed Champatiray from service on charges of dereliction of duty. 
 
 Challenging the dismissal, Champatiray had moved the tribunal and subsequently the tribunal had granted him relief by quashing the dismissal order. But challenging the SAT's order, the state government had moved Orissa high court in 2013. A division bench of Justices   and S N Prasad has upheld the verdict of SAT and observed that the dismissal was unconstitutional and illegal, Champatiray's counsel   told to TOI. Dash alleged that his client was not issued any show-cause notice neither was he given a reasonable opportunity to defend himself. Even no departmental proceeding was initiated against him. Violating all the norms, the government dismissed him from service, said Dash. 
 
 "Taking note of our contentions, the court observed that any government servant before dismissal should be given a fair and reasonable opportunity to defend himself or herself. The departmental proceedings should be initiated and only if she or he is proved guilty then only punishment should be given," said Dash quoting the court's order. The high court had given the verdict on January 3 but the parties received the order copy on Tuesday.
 
 Champatiray has expressed his happiness with the order. "I am satisfied as the high court has given me justice," Champatiray told mediapersons.
 
