Bindu and  , chil dren of music maestro   and singer-mother  , carry forward their big music legacy. But both of them do not show any sign of nervousness to handle the pressure. Being part of the band `SubraMania', handling the Subramaniam Academy of Performing Arts (SaPa), performing with their father and touring the world -they both literally live outside a suitcase, earnestly managing their own family and work.The duo, who was in Chennai, gets chatty with us about all things music...

 
 
 Chennai has been the hub of Carnatic music.Whenever you come here, you get these memories of so many great artistes who have lived and performed here. And the audiences, too, are great.When I say this, I mean that they view music or dance in a different perspective, which even we don't see. For one of my concerts here, I had someone come to me analysing it, and almost said what I had in my mind when I moved from the first to the second piece.Sometimes, I wonder if I really had that in my mind, but then it is interesting to get a different perspective. When you have an audience who are so much interested in your music, you only try to perform in a better way. The margazhi season is simply fantas tic for audiences. I was here for two concerts. When I stepped out from where I was staying, I had sabhas having some great concerts.
 
 
 Chennai, for me, is a city with different layers.Twenty years ago, I used to feel that it is a traditional and conservative city. But as I grew older, I got to see different aspects of Chennai. The city has become a happening place, yet has its cultural roots intact -both the aspects coexist peacefully. Unlike other cities, here for the people, they are comfortable in being traditional and I respect that a lot.It is important to embrace where you come from and what your identity is.
 
 
 
 
 I am little careful about over exposure. No offence, but sometimes, when you have artistes performing 20 concerts in a period of one month, I feel it tends to be awkward for the audience, too. They might just miss your concert thinking that they will watch it another day. For me, it doesn't sound right. If you come once or twice, I feel it becomes an event that people do not want to miss.
 
  We live in Bangalore, but we hardly do one or two performances there.
 
 The hope is that people should wait for your concert.
 
 
 
 
  We have ridiculous amount of fun. All the rehearsals, hardwork, writing the material, etc, happen much before the concert.Right before we go on stage, we just go with a flow. We don't care what happens on stage and let it go. We do post mortem the next day. We analyse what went right and wrong.It is important to evaluate yourself post the concert, but you shouldn't go to the extent of tearing yourself down.
 
  It is more about having a clear state of mind. When you are doing improvised music, it is important to be able to think to give something interesting.
 
  When you are younger, you have something to prove.Instead of worrying about the performance or carrying the pressure of being able to perform like your parents, one should understand that audiences just want to hear your music. 
 
  Yes. You can't expect the whole act to be perfect. You can play the same song in 10 different ways. Remember that you are working with other  , who are in their own bubble, wanting to interpret in their own ways.
 
 
 
 
 I think that pressure is something anyone has to deal with. We are grateful for the legacy that we come from. But we have realised it in our own way that it is our responsibility to respect our tradition, and at the same time, see how we can take it forward. If I am singing with the anticipation of what people expect, then I am wrong. You need to feel music for it to reach.
 
  Your expectations of yourself should be much more than anyone else's. So, living up to your standards is important.
 
  Our band, `SubraMania' is a space for us to do something creatively. We started this band to pay tribute to that legacy. It is okay to be different as long as you are fine with it. I have a daughter, who is five, and already wants to start a band of her own. She calls it `Matha' (Mahati and thatha) and has already stolen our guitarist and drummer (smiles).
 
 
 
 
 We are fortunate to be doing things we love. When he's busy with something, I take care of our music school, and when I am not there, we have someone else who oversees it. It takes a great level of multitasking.
 
 
 
 
  I wish I could say that I threw a drum kit, but no, that didn't happen (laughs). We respect each other's opinions.Ambi: When you are collaborating in music, there will be differences.
 
  With family these differences tend to get emotional. But we work as friends and not as siblings.We are doing so many things together. When one of us really doesn't like what the other has done, we sort it out.Ambi: Oh yes, she really disliked a song that I wrote. She doesn't perform the song, taken it out of our song list since she dislikes it.
 
 
 
 
  The whole idea for us is to teach music to two or three year olds. We do workshops with kids and include it in school curriculum, too. We want to make it acces sible, simple, and aesthetic. The less elitist you are, the more people you have to support. It is not that people don't want to understand classical music, but they are apprehensive to ask questions about it.
 
 Also, presentation of a concert is very important. If you look at a rock or pop festival, even before the music starts, the experience is a lot better for the audience. The stage is set, lights are good and sound is much better.Unfortunately , in classical music, the first two songs that you perform is the sound check. Even though some things are not related to music, the presentation of our concerts tend to put off the audience.
 
 
 
 
 I have to protect him sometimes... but more from the mothers than from the girls.Ambi: Oh yes, I do, especially from the mothers. Girls, I don't mind (laughs).
 
 You're sounding cool and all. He's actually a thayir sadham (laughs). But with social media, many people have immediate access to you.
 
  People know you a lot more as a person because of social media. I once went to Kochi for a concert. I spotted an `Ambi Dosa' at a restaurant and posted it on my page. Months later, I had people asking me about the dosa and I was lost for a moment. They get to have intimate knowledge, which is strange. 
 
