UDAIPUR: Four persons including three   died after they were exposed to toxic gases inside the   of a house in Ashok Vihar of   in Udaipur on Sunday night. Two others were reported to be ill after coming in contact with the dangerous fumes. One of the workers had gone down to clean the tank but when he didn’t come out, two fellow workers got inside one after the other and lost consciousness.

 Later the house owner’s son too went inside the tank and choked. The rescue team pulled down the tank walls and drew out the victims who were rushed to a hospital, however, all of them were declared dead by midnight.
 
 The death of fourth class employees raised questions about not only proper training of the workers but also the provision or lack of safety equipment. The tragedy infuriated the Valmiki community. Aggrieved family members of the victims protested outside the morgue on Monday morning and refused to give the bodies for autopsy. They demanded ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh each.
 
 Sensing the situation, Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC) and district administration authorities gave a written assurance to extend all support to the aggrieved families.
 
 According to the police, the incident took place around 11pm on Sunday. Sanitation workers of the UMC were at Shyamlal Chittora’s house to clean the septic tank. Chittora had called for mechanized cleaning two days ago, however, the machine couldn’t clear the silt deposited at the tank’s bottom hence requiring the need of manual labour.
 
 One after the other three men who entered the tank fell unconscious due to dangerous gases. The house owner’s son Vipin too lowered himself into the tank looking for the workers and was trapped.
 
 Panic gripped the area and rescue team was called which arrived after an hour. The tank walls were broken with the help of an excavator and the men were pulled out. The victims, Vipin, Gopal, Rajkumar and Narendra were declared brought dead in hospital. Collector Rohit Gupta, SP Rajendra Prasad Goyal and officers consoled the aggrieved family members and assured support to them.
 
 
