NAVI MUMBAI: An animal rights   ( ) has complained to the forest authorities and to the civic body in Navi Mumbai about the illegal use of an elephant at a wedding procession in Koparkhairane on Friday night.

 The NGO, Plant and Animals Welfare Society (PAWSMumbai), has also sought an inquiry into the issue. According to rules, elephants are not allowed for any private or religious purpose in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai.
 
 Sunish Subramanian of PAWS-Mumbai said that some local citizens had informed him that an elephant was used at a wedding procession at sector 23 near the Gurudwara on Friday night. “We managed to get some photos clicked (see inset) by the pub lic at the time. These photos have been forwarded to forest department officials so that they can inquire as to whose elephant was illegally used at the wedding,“ said Subrama nian.
 
 He added that while some volunteers of PAWS-Mumbai rushed to the site in Koparkhairane at night to check out the pachyderm, they reached a bit late. The wedding procession had reached the reception venue and, by then, the elephant had been taken somewhere else by its mahouts.
 
 “It is clearly a violation of circulars issued by the chief conservator of forests (Thane) on July 24, 2007 and the additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the western region on October 28, 2013, about the ban on the use of elephants, which are schedule-1 protected species under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Act, 2002,“ said Subramanian.
 
 Another city activist who got to know about the elephant at the wedding told TOI: “I immediately called up the veterinary officer of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation regarding the elephant being brought in at the wedding. But by the time some of the activists had reached the site, the elephant was not seen. Also, considering that it is a large animal we were dealing with here, there should be a proper elephant shelter at hand in case it is to be seized and rescued from further exploitation.“
 
 Besides writing to forest department officials of the Thane range, PAWS-Mumbai has decided to write to the authorities of municipal corporations of Navi Mumbai and Thane. The idea behind informing the civic bodies is to check on any presence of elephants in their jurisdictions.
 
 Officials from the state forest department said they are currently inquiring into the matter.
 
 
