NEW DELHI: A 65-year-old   shot and injured a man in an apparent case of road rage in Saket. People informed police about the shooting around 5.45pm on Sunday. The bleeding man was taken to hospital and discharged after treatment.

 Amit Baliyan, the victim, drove up to a food stall in Khoka Market in Saket and he and his friend sat in the car to eat. An Isuzu car arrived and started honking at them. 
 
 Baliyan, 38, asked the Isuzu driver to give them a minute to pay the owner of the food stall. But when the honking did not cease, he rolled down the window only to find Rahul Rai, the occupant of the other car, and his driver, Khushvinder Singh, launching a verbal assault.
 
 When they sped away, Baliyan gave chase and caught up with the Isuzu at Saket. He drove parallel to the Isuzu and demanded to know why the duo had abused him. When both the cars slowed down to a halt, Rai pulled out a revolver. According to police, Rai then pointed the weapon at Baliyan’s head. In an attempt to save himself, the man tried to snatch the revolver from Rai, but the gun went off and hit Baliyan on his hand.
 
 Seeing the bleeding man, the Isuzu drove away. Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP (South), said police later arrested Rai from his DLF Chhatarpur house. The cops registered a case under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code for attempt to murder and under Section 30 of the Arms Act for contravention of gun licence rules.
 
 Rai had represented India in international shooting events between 1997 and 2002, including the World Championships in 1999 and the 1998 and 2002 Asian Games. He is an alumnus of BITS Pilani and MIT, US, and owns a printing business.
 
 That same evening, there was another incident of road rage in Govindpuri, in which a 94-year-old woman and her son were beaten by an intoxicated man outside their house. 
 
 The victim, who was taking his mother to hospital, said the accused, a property dealer, asked them to move their car and then rushed at them with an iron rod. Police have arrested the assaulter. 
 
 
