MADURAI: The Madras high court   on Thursday conducted in-camera proceedings on   against a couple’s parentage claim.

  conducted the in-camera proceedings. The hearing lasted an hour and 20 minutes, following which the judge adjourned the matter to March 20.
 
  filed the petition seeking to quash the proceedings initiated by the judicial magistrate court in Melur based on a case filed by a couple - R Kathiresan, 65, of Madurai and his wife Meenakshi, 53, -- seeking maintenance from the actor claiming that the actor was their son.
 
 The actor stated that he was not their son and also that somebody was behind the couple to extract money from him. 
 
 The court on February 28 conducted physical examination of the actor to ascertain the identification marks.
 
 On Thursday, when the case came up for hearing before Justice P N Prakash, the actor’s side said that after the court verified Dhanush’s identification mark, the couple filed a petition seeking a DNA test of the actor, which was not good in the eye of law.
 
 The court also expressed concern over spread of news on social media. The judge said, “Yes, this is giving so much publicity. We need to maintain privacy. Thus, we will hear the case through in-camera proceedings.”
 
 Meanwhile, the court’s decision came as a surprise to the public. However, advocates said the court has power to conduct in-camera hearings. 
 
 Initially, the single judge G Chockalingam heard the case in an open hall till his sitting in the high court bench. After a new judge (P N Prakash) came to his place, he wanted the case’s hearing to be heard inside his chamber.
 
 “The case relating to the actor has been in court for two months. Since then, the hearing was held in an open court. Now, the court has suddenly changed its approach in hearing the case, which is shocking,” said Dhana Raj, a resident of Karuppayurani who has been eagerly following the updates in the case. 
 
 However, advocate K Samidurai said, “Normally, in-camera proceedings are done to hide the identity of the victims. In-camera proceedings is a must for cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Apart from these, the court would order hearing of cases through in-camera proceedings in cases relating to crime against women.”
 
 Above all, the court has enormous powers under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code and Article 226 of the Indian Constitution. It can do whatever it thinks fit to do justice, he said.
 
