KOLKATA: Several communities — for whom Kolkata is their home — are gearing up to turn to a   this weekend. New clothes, a fresh coat of paint on the walls, a family lunch and an outing with friends top the wish list for most. Some will be welcoming the   by lighting fireworks while others would sing and dance. The city’s Malayalis and Assamese will be celebrating   and  , respectively, on Saturday — the  .

 The Punjabi community in the city celebrated Baisakhi, the spring harvest festival, on Thursday. Close to 10,000 people turned up for the celebrations at the Shahid Minar ground. “We had special guests from Punjab who recited the Gurbani and sand kirtans. We had a day-long langar where anybody irrespective of their cast or community could come and eat,” said Bachan Singh Saral, president of the Howrah Gurdwara. Members of Punjab Club celebrated Baisakhi with traditional dance forms and exchanging greetings.
 
 Women in Malayali homes in Kolkata are getting ready to wake up in the wee hours of Saturday to make Vishu Kani, an arrangement of flowers and lamps with the image of Krishna at the centre. “We are also putting boxes of fireworks in the sun so that they are ready for use on Saturday. The offering to the deity is yellow cucumber and rice. The head of the family gives money — Vishukayineettam — to all members. On this auspicious day, all of us have vegetarian food. On Sunday afternoon, the Kairali Samajam has organised a community feast. The Puvogamana Kala Sahitya Sangam will hold a cultural event at National Girls’ High School in the evening,” said TK Gopalan, a prominent member of the 10,000-strong Malayali community in Kolkata and CEO of Garden High School.
 
 Members of the Assamese community will be gathering at the Assam House early on Saturday morning for the traditional Bihu song-and-dance ritual. It will be followed by a traditional lunch. “This year, we are celebrating the 150th year of the Assam Literary Club in Kolkata. So, apart from the regular events, we have a special programme lined up on Sunday. More than 300 members of the community are expected to take part,”said Joydeep Phukan, secretary, Tea Research Association.
 
 The Bangladesh deputy high commission in Kolkata, too, will be joining the ‘Pahela Boisakh’ celebrations. A colourful procession will be taken out on April 14, the day Bangladesh celebrates its New Year. It will be followed by a cultural event at the deputy high commission premises.
 
