GOA: Some came in their traditional outfits. Some came in leather biker jackets. A few came dressed as their favourite superheroes (or ‘she’roes). Some came in support of their favourite causes. However, the one common thread linking them all was the celebration of womanhood. 

  from all walks of life thronged in large numbers to the Times All Women Bike Rally on March 5. The All Women Bike Rally is an annual event conducted by the BCCL Language Publications group to commemorate Women’s Day and has, over the years, evolved into a strong symbol of women’s freedom and liberation. This concept was seeded in March 2013 in the aftermath of the horrific Nirbhaya incident, with an objective to encourage women to reclaim their cities without any fear. 
 
 Conducted jointly by Navbharat Times, Maharashtra Times and Ei Samay across Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Lucknow, Pune, Nashik, Kolhapur and Aurangabad, this programme has attained the form of a national movement. Besides empowering women and giving them a tangible and constructive symbol through which they assert themselves with pride and confidence, the rally has also developed into a ‘must go’ event for women to express solidarity with the cause and celebrate womanhood in a fun, informal setting.
 
 The All Women Bike Rally has been recognized globally and was awarded a gold at the most prestigious marketing awards, INMA, in its first year. In 2016, with a then record participation of 9,612 women bikers, it also made it to the Limca Book of Records under the category, ‘Largest all women bike rally’. 
 
 This year, with a participation of 10,195 women, the rally surpassed its own record. With the theme ‘Kabhi Rukna Nahi’ (Never stop), it celebrated success stories of women who have defied every boundary and emerged victorious through the sheer dint of their hard work and perseverance. 
 
 The event was graced by celebrities such as Bollywood stars Abhay Deol, Sania Malhotra and Bhumi Pednekar, Olympics medal winner and wrestler Sushil Kumar, as well as leading politicians, IAS officers and police brass.
 
 
