They came, they conquered, and they put Chennai on the map, having excelled in their careers. We choose nine game-changers from varied walks of life — people who have turned the tables when it comes to their careers, not just for themselves, but in a way, for many others, too. As we celebrate the 9th anniversary of Chennai  , today, nine stars, all semma famous in their respective fields, tell us how they made it all so cutting-edge

 
  is the game-changer in Kollywood these days. Whether it is a small budget film or mass movies, he rocks with his inimitable style. He attributes his success to taking up projects that he connects to. “There’s a connect that should happen between one’s soul and their profession, and if that happens, one will be able to take the right decisions in life. I am able to pick my films by following what my heart tells me. There were times when I was mired in financial troubles, but even at that time, I did not want to accept films that would fetch me great money… Because, I felt that it would not be the right thing to do professionally. And I want to be true to my profession. I wait for the right films and right characters that will convince me first. I really don’t know if I am a trendsetter or not, but this is how I decide my films.”
  
  
 
 Originally from Udumalaipettai, Mahadevan came to Chennai several years ago as a lecturer. Today, he has several franchises, bakeries and restaurants abroad as well. “I am good with numbers and have this love for meeting people, that’s why I became a restaurateur. I have people walking in all the time and I make sure we are also making the money. But things have changed a lot from what Chennai was 30 years ago,” recollects Mahadevan, who started out with a modest hotel in Ispahani. “There used to be a tree there and I used to teach at the college. It was a modest Chinese joint and now we have 452 units. Today, people are coming and asking me for flammkuchen. The millennials, who are our target audience are looking for healthier options. But all this has to be at a pocket-friendly price. Back then north Indians were the main customers. South Indians loved their Woodlands Drive-In. I had realised that the decor is important, but that doesn’t mean you can ignore the food,” he shares. But the focus has changed for Mahadevan, who is looking at doing socially relevant work. “We have taken a lot from the city and I think it is time we give it back. We have burn victims working at Writer’s Cafe; we will have a new unit that will have special kids and destitutes working there,” he signs off. 
  
  
 
 He’s a popular face in cinema as a supporting actor but more as a choreographer. He got all the actors groove to his tunes. And now Sathish is happy to see the change in the western dance scene. “The time I had started was when the city was seeing a lot of western dance and dancers. People like Michael Jackson and Prabhudheva brought in a huge change in the field of dance. I used to dance a lot in school, but it was a little flashy back then. Later, I used to watch   (Major Sundarrajan’s son) practise dance in his house. That sort of got me taking this up full-time. I joined Flyers, the same time when they had set it up. Started by Guna, I used that as a platform to hone my skills and later handle one of the centres to train students. Its been 17 years and it feels like home now. At that time, very few people came for classes, but today the scene has changed. The music of today has helped dancers to get to the floor and dance,” says Sathish, adding, “I was part of reality shows and later trained people who participated in reality shows. I was getting bored and eventually managed to find a place in the industry as a choreographer. Today I see so many dancers coming up with innovative stuff. Earlier, it was all about stage performances. Now, dancers have started doing dance covers, where they shoot a video of them dancing for a popular song. And this has been the best time for many people to step out from their rooms to show what they’ve got.”
  
  
 
 He entered the film industry as an assistant director. And today, S Aravind has given hope to many youngsters to get on to the stage and do stand-up comedy. “I took to stand-up comedy not because I was the class clown, as some think, but because I wanted to be heard. I was writing feature film scripts then, and stand-up comedy turned out to be a more personal medium to tell people my stories. I found huge crowds thronging such shows… to laugh along with those of us who were willing to laugh at ourselves. There is little doubt that stand-up comedy impacts people’s lives in tangible ways. Stress levels come down; people remember again to laugh; sometimes, even relationships get mended. Stand-up comedy has clearly come a long way from the tentative, unsure beginnings it had about five years back, when those like me broke through. Quite recently, it gave me great pleasure to spot some amateur comedians looking at serious topics — depression, suicidal tendencies, social stigmas, etc—through the lens of humour. It’s a great trend, and a reassuring sign that they are able to provoke thought and awareness about such serious issues in such a light-hearted way.”
  
  
 
 Born and brought up in Chennai, Sofia Ashraf always wanted to perform on stage and be different. But coming from an orthodox family, things were not easy. “I wanted to find a loophole via which I could perform and rapping seemed to be the answer. I somehow just took to it immediately. I have been writing since the age of 10 and I love poetry and lyrical prose. I started taking part in cultural programs and it was Siddharth Hande from Justice Rocks who spotted me. They asked me to rap a song addressing mercury pollution in Kodaikanal and they told me it could be uncensored, which excited me a lot. From hijab, Bhopal gas tragedy to anything. I started singing about things that mattered to me and that’s how my journey began,” shares Sofia who says rapping was always associated with misogynist views. “A few years ago, nobody wanted to listen to someone like me, a unconventional Muslim girl, rapping about social issues. But now I use rapping as a method to break gender stereotypes. A lot of people also accuse me for being urban modern with my lyrics, but that is how I relate to things,” she signs off.
  
  
 
 If you are thinking of contemporary Indian publishing houses, you cannot miss the name Gita Wolf. She started Tara Books, a publishing house almost 20 years ago and has written over 20 books for children and adults. Quirky concepts, content that ropes in the Indian culture and working with folk artistes, Gita Wolf has done all this and more. She might have started out without a business plan or a strategy, but Gita always had the right focus. She even mentioned in an interview that the idea was to widen the scope of what we think of as children’s literature, particularly in India. At the publishing unit, there are writers, designers and book artisans who favour a non-hierarchical mode of functioning, informed by feminism and other movements for social justice. It was Gita’s aim to introduce the rich diversity of Indian folk and tribal art into books for children. What makes their books interesting is the mix of pictures, text, quirky designs and experimentation with content as a whole. Their books are primarily in English. But they’d also like to publish in Tamil and are currently growing a German list. 
  
  
 
 A group of four working professionals is investing as much time in Tamil theatre as their counterparts. And their aim is to make youngsters watch Tamil plays. Kaushik Ramesh, one of the founders of Chennai Drama House says, “Vivek Rajagopal was my senior in school. We used to participate in skits and plays. However, we lost touch afterwards. We later connected via Orkut and realised that we have the same passion for dramatics. Along with my schoolmates, Karthik Bhatt and Vikram Manakal, we started this group. We began staging comedy shows and earned a name for producing clean and original humour. And that became the game-changer for us. We brought in relatable content and included the current trends. We were able to tap the younger crowd. We do a two-minute snippet of our play and target the young crowd through social media. This video becomes a trigger to get young crowd for Tamil plays. ”
 
  
 
 Chennai has never been the fashion capital of the country. However, for Jean-François Lesage, the city seemed to be the apt option to open his own embroidery unit. Son of the legendary French haute couture embroiderer François Lesage, Jean came to Chennai for the first time when he was 19 and moved in when he was 27. His unit, Vastrakala, based in Adyar is well-known for their embroidery that they do using zardosi and zari in 17th and 18th century designs. According to a recent interview, Jean has mentioned how he has always loved the city for the low-key, laid-back attitude of the people. Jean has been a main hand in putting Chennai on the fashion map of the world. Thanks to his association with fashion houses like Chanel, Lanvin, Balmain, Givenchy and Christian Lacroix. With major focus on home furnishings, Jean has also collaborated with fashion stalwarts like luminaries as Jacques Grange, Alberto Pinto and Peter Marino. But his association with Christian Louboutin has been the one most talked about.
 
 
