KOZHIKODE: State's first   started functioning at Perambra in the district on Saturday. Such centres will be opened in all districts to help youngsters, said minister   while inaugurating the centre. Perambra block panchayat president   presided over the function.

 The guidelines and regulations set by the United Nations regarding career guidance and development to meet international standards will be followed strictly by the centre. The centre will focus on giving career information, career guidance and counselling to individuals.
 
 Besides, the centre will also offer group guidance, career consultation, career interest test, goal setting, motivational classes, pre-interview training, and personality development training programmes. The programme also include motivation classes, training for competitive examination and other programmes.
 
 "People are highly educated in our state, however they fail to get job, as they are rightly employable," said  , regional deputy director of employment. The centre will assist people in chosing the right course and help enter right career by conducting an aptitude test, he added.
 
 The centre has been started as part of the move to open one career development centre each in all 14 districts to help educated youths to become more employable. The centre has been started at Perambra on pilot basis and more centres will be started only after reviewing the success of the Perambra centre.
 
 The centre is arranged with state of art facilities and the training is offered free of cost. Career counselling will be offered by a qualified trainer. 
 
 Online tests will be used to identify the aptitude of the candidates and to impart from proper training, said the official. The centre will help the candidates identify what to study and why to study that particular subject, he added.
 
 Educated youths as well as student can register their names for career development after visiting the centre. Later they can interact and undergo training online.
 
 The centre function at 1500-square feet area on the first floor of Perambra mini civil station. The centre has training hall, internet library and career library to help the candidates. The centre will also offer skill development courses including soft skill development training, computer skill enhancement programme and English language training.
 
 The training programme will be followed by strict assessment by an expert team.
 
 Perambra Development Mission general convener M Kunhammad, perambra grama panchayat president   and others also attended the inauguration programme.
 
