PATNA: The state education department has decided to prepare a draft on service conditions of contractual teachers by July 27 and table the same in the Bihar assembly during monsoon session beginning July 28.

 A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting between the education department officials and members of the Bihar Secondary School Teachers’ Association (BSSTA) here on Friday. The meeting was chaired by state education minister Ashok Choudhary.
 
 BSSTA president Kedarnath Pandey said the government had announced in July 2015 that the contractual teachers would get all the benefits, such as hike in pay, transfer, continuity of service, maternal leave, medical leave and promotion, which regular government teachers enjoy. “The education department has finally agreed to table the proposal in the upcoming monsoon session of the assembly,” he added.
 
 The minister announced at the meeting that the salary of peons and night guards in government schools would be increased from Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,000 per month. “The minister also announced that the pending salary (from 2015 to 2017) of Madarsa teachers will also be cleared within a month. There are around 150 Madarsas across the state.
 
 BSSTA sources said the minister also promised that recruitment of headmasters in secondary and senior secondary schools across the state for 795 vacant posts would be filled by October this year. “The education department is likely to hold a meeting with Departmental Promotion Committee on July 27 to discuss the issue. Bihar Public Service Commission has so far received more than 1,000 applications from senior teachers across the state. The recruitment process would be completed by September 28,” the sources said, adding more than 2,000 posts of headmasters are vacant in government schools.
 
 BSSTA general secretary Shatrughan Prasad said several contractual teachers, who were appointed before 2012-13, are yet to receive training. “We request the education department to sanction them leave with pay so that they can undergo training in BEd colleges.”
 
 “We have taken note of the requests made by the association and would discuss the same with the officials concerned,” the education minister said.
 
 
