PATNA: The state would soon get a fleet of six new   to be used by CM   and other VVIPs visiting Bihar. These vehicles would cost around Rs 3 crore.

 The decision was taken in November last year as the government had planned to buy these vehicles for use during the Prakashotsava, but the delivery was delayed by the manufacturers. The sources said a proposal has also been made to the state police headquarters for purchasing five armoured Toyota Fortuners, which would also cost around Rs3 crore.
 
 “As there was delay in the arrival of the six SUVs, the firm provided to the state government two high-end bulletproof vehicles for Prakashotsava. Both the vehicles will be taken back as soon as the Tata provides the six vehicles to the state government. The state had failed to provide a bulletproof   to the then Gujarat CM   during his Patna rally in October 2013 because it had none,” the source said.
 
 IG (Provision)   said, “Two new bulletproof SUVs will be used by the CM. The other four will be kept for emergency situation.” He said only two old bulletproof Safaris and two Ambassador cars are in proper condition while the rest are in bad shape.
 
 He said all these SUVs would be factory-fitted because, compared to retrofitted, they are considered more efficient as their engines and suspension are modified by the manufacturing firm to bear the extra load without compromising with speed. 
 
 “Each SUV costs around Rs12 lakh. After being made bulletproof, its cost goes up to Rs50 lakh,” Darad said, adding that looking at the VVIP movement and security aspect, it had become necessary to have such vehicles.
 
 Darad, however, did not disclose the technical specifications of the SUVs, citing security reasons. “The police headquarters has sent another proposal for purchasing five additional bulletproof vehicles generally used by defence personnel. Each vehicle would cost Rs61 lakh. We are waiting for the government’s clearance,” Darad said.
 
 He said each Fortuner would have double steel plates to bear the impact of two simultaneous grenade blasts. In addition, these vehicles would also have additional air bags for the occupants while Safaris have only two air bags.
 
 Darad also said the Fortuner would be able to bear the impact of AK-47 rifle assault in ten metres range.
 
 Sources said the state’s bulletproof vehicle fleet consists of 25 Ambassadors of 2005, 2009 and 2013 model and five Safaris but hardly six of them are in proper condition.
 
