 
You have probably driven past it on numerous occasions without casting a second look at it. That’s the current state of Bandra’s pond or 
 . But that’s going to change soon, courtesy a proposal to beautify the water body. As per plans, you will be able to get an underwater view of the 
 from a glass-walled tunnel on the SV Road part of the promenade just like in parks abroad. Here’s what the   2.0 is all about…
 
 The water body — a grade II heritage structure — will be the first in the country, say sources, to have such a transparent faced walkway that allow you to get a view of life underwater. It comes under phase II of the 
 ’s   and includes several other plans — another glass flooring bridge (which may be fixed or buoyant) at the north side, a reading area, open-air space for art and more.  , local MLA, who presented a proposal for the revamp to BMC chief  , says the plans came about after talking to local Bandra-ites who had felt that it was high time his happened. “They were excited over the walkway. We are awaiting the BMC budget and hoping that the work starts after that. It won’t disrupt traffic as it’s off the road,” he says. 
 Sharad Ughade, assistant  , H-West Ward, reveals how for the first time city students got involved in the project design. “The proposal was initiated by the ward and this time, we thought why not involve students for a change instead of consultants? This would also give them a hands-on field experience. We discussed several design aspects — such as an underlined walkway, glass-faced on one side and a transparent floored boardwalk on the other,” he says. 
  Considering that the water is not clear there are plans for de-silting work to be carried out by the BMC to clean it. A tender has been floated by for water purification by the Garden Silt Department. “We also proposed complete walkway along periphery of the lake as well as an open art gallery and an upgraded amphitheatre. A café can also be implemented there. Presently, there is less illumination here, so we decided to 
 have a special laser sound and light show, will which be exciting. Soon Bandra’s talao is going to be the new place to hang out,” he says. 
 
 
 For architects Karan Ruparel and Sagar Jhanglani and students of the nearby   who designed the revamp, the days have been filled with site visits to the area at different times of day and night to observe the traffic footfalls, understand the area’s traffic management system, nighttime effect on the lighting, etc. Says Karan, “We wanted to make this a place that provides activities to all ages of people.” The highlight is no doubt the ‘Datum Walk’, a 40-metre glass walk — that takes you below water level so you can see the aquatic life. But what about the clarity of the water? Explains Sagar, “A bio-diversity study for this has been started and only after we ascertain things like the water’s PH level and what kind of fish exist in it, will we start the cleaning process. The lake is rich in aquatic life and has various species of fishes, migratory birds and turtles.” The Guru Nanak Road side will see skipping stones path with water flowing below it and a community slide seating arrangement. There are also plans to have a space 
 for art and yoga. “Beautifying a place is one thing, but our aim was to make it place of recreation as well,” says Sagar. Gaurish Chandawarkar, the college’s principal-in charge and director informs that the students have been working on this project for the last six months. “We feel great to give back to Bandra. These concepts for the 
 will no doubt brighten the place and add charm to it. Mumbai certainly needs more spaces such as these.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 At present, the 
 has an open stretch. According to the new design, there will be a glass walkway called a  , which offers an underwater view. The space will also have shades and a space to display art.
 
  
  
  
  
 The north side currently has only a graffiti wall and is littered along the boundary wall. The plan is to have a reader zone and transparent-floored walkway that connects it to the station side of the promenade.
  
  
  
  
 
 The south side has an iron railing and a few benches. It is proposed to have a katta (parapet) seating, which offers are more view of the talao as well art display panels all along the wall.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 Estimated cost for the phase II revamp is `8.81 crore 
 
 
 The talao view will be free to all. “We have also submitted a proposal to the BMC for a sound and light show. We also hope to take a corporate entity into the loop so as to upkeep standards,” informs Shelar. 
 
 
 
 
