KOLKATA: Brabourne Road flyover was closed to traffic but vehicles from Howrah faced no major hurdle to reach the central business district on the first working day of the week, thanks to strict enforcement of ban on parking in and around the area. A well-coordinated effort by cops from Kolkata and Howrah saved the day. The flyover will be thrown open to traffic on Tuesday morning.

 The deployment of a retinue of traffic sergeants at the Strand Road-Brabourne Road intersection turned out to be a masterstroke. They made sure cars were diverted to Strand Road for faster dispersal. Not allowing buses to make unscheduled stops also worked wonders.
 
 But the most notable of the restrictions was no parking in the area, according to sergeants. “Parking on one side of the road straightaway takes away 30% of road space. On a road like Canning Street, cars are parked on either side, leaving just a single lane for vehicular movement. A car then jostles for space with pedestrians, porters and hawkers,” said an officer.
 
 The vehicles moved somewhat slower at the   crossing because of two-way traffic movement. But the situation never went out of hand. “It took 15 minutes from Howrah station to reach Canning Street. It takes much longer on any other day,” said Atri Dasgupta, a banker who travels daily from from Howrah station to his Dalhousie office.
 
 With a sudden influx of south Kolkata-bound vehicles, many expected   to get choked on Monday. But traffic movement remained smooth throughout the day on the bridge. Cars and taxis from Howrah took two different routes to move on to   Setu. While traffic from south Howrah took Drainage Canal Road and then Kona Expressway to reach the bridge, those from central Howrah were channelized into Foreshore Road from two points — from Howrah station to Grand Foreshore Road to reach Foreshore Road and those from the heart of the city took Bankim Setu, went past the Howrah Court and District Hospital to reach Foreshore Road. 
 
 Manpower at the Vidyasagar Setu was doubled to keep the traffic moving smoothly. “We had kept people ready with manual tickets and a lot of change to prevent cars getting stuck at the toll. We kept all the nine lanes running throughout the day and there was no traffic snarl at all, even during peak hours,” said Sunil Pawar, spokesperson of MEP Infrastructure, which collects toll for the state government. Moreover, at least 35 cops were posted at the toll plaza, covering both the ends throughout the day.
 
