Rajkot: The Amreli district collector has stayed the work on the windmill farm project proposed by two companies in the vicinity of the reserved forest in   taluka. 

  and  , the Indian subsidiary of London-headquartered Mytrah Group, were allotted lakhs of sq m land to set up the project which entailed making windmills. GFL was given 3,80,000 sq m in 2010 while Mytrah Energy was allotted 80,000 sq m land in 2015. The land allotted to GFL was spread across 10 villages of the taluka and Mytra was given land in two villages.
 
 Wildlife activists claim that the area where windmills are proposed to be installed is dangerously close to the lions’ habitat and their corridor in greater Gir area of Amreli. There are at least 45 Asiatic lions that are often spotted in these villages.
 
 Collector  , in his stay order, said that the land allotted for the windmill farm project has violated the conditions as they were supposed to start the project within three years of land allotment. “We have received a representation that the work has not been completed. GKL had to apply afresh to extend the period for construction, which they have not done. Moreover, provisions of forest and environment also need to be taken into consideration before any further development.” 
 
 “There would be no further construction of windmill projects on land given on lease to them until further written order,’’ Rana stated.
 
 The order also mentioned that a meeting has been called on March 30 for concerned parties over this issue and they have been asked to remain present with relevant documents. 
 
 Earlier, wildlife activist   had filed the PIL seeking high court’s intervention in the issue. He submitted that the forest department and residents of Bhekhra and Senjal villages near Savarkundla have time and again informed the district collector as well as the company that installs windmills —   — to stop work. The district authority did not respond to the requests to save wildlife in the area, which has got sizeable number of Asiatic lions, leopards and other wild animals which fall under schedule 1 category of Wildlife Protection Act-1972. HC had issued notices to the concerned authority to file replies. 
 
 
