JALANDHAR: Power supply to the   of nearly 650 villages in   region has been disconnected due to piling up of bills worth several crores. Left with no option but to pay up to ensure the supply of water, defaulting villagers and panchayats have now started paying their bills in instalments.

 Enquiries from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials revealed that in Hoshiarpur circle, power supply has been cut to waterworks handling about 250 villages in the last couple of days. Most of the defaulting villages are in the Kandi area, which is solely dependent on the supply system for water as the groundwater table here is low. When contacted, PSPCL’s Hoshiarpur circle superintending engineer (SE) H S Saini said bills worth around Rs 49 crore were pending in sub-divisions of Hoshiarpur, Dasuya, Mukerian, Talwara, Mahilpur and Tanda.
 
 In Nawanshahr circle, power supply to 300 waterworks has been disconnected. Sources said most of the pending bills were in Garshahnkar and Balachaur areas of the Nawansahhr circle. PSPCL Nawanshahr circle SE Sanjeev Kumar said bills worth around Rs 11 crore were pending towards these villages.
 
 In   circle, 119 villages are facing a water crisis after power supply to waterworks was discontinued. Sources said most villages in the circle were in the Shahkot sub-division. When contacted, Kapurthala circle SE Y P S Bath said villages facing disconnection had outstanding bills of around Rs 7 crore.
 
 Powercom officials said they disconnected electricity supply because they had failed to elicit a response from defaulters even after sending them reminders for depositing bills. “The defaulting villagers are now rushing to deposit bills with the public health department or to panhchayats. These villagers now also have to hear bitter things from those who have paid their bills,” said a village sarpanch in Nawanshahr.
 
 PSPCL officials said they were restoring power connections even if villagers were paying dues in instalments.
 
