HYDERABAD: Washing clothes in the murky waters of   and other polluted water bodies in Telangana will soon be a thing of the past. What’s more, you don’t need to go to the laundry located on the street corner as door-to-door collection of your dirty clothes is also on the anvil. The state government is making all arrangements for mechanised washing of your dirty linen. 

 To begin with, the government is setting up mechanised laundry at   and Sikh Village in Greater Hyderabad. The pilot project will also cover setting up of mechanised laundries at 10 other dhobi ghats and various vantage spots in the state capital in addition to one each in Siddipet, Adilabad,   and two other districts. Each mechanised unit that will have washers, dryers and other components will cost anywhere between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 1.4 crore depending on the number of clothes it can wash.
 
  For example, a machine having a capacity to wash 1,000 clothes per hour will cost around Rs 1crore. These mechanised laundries will be handed over to ‘washermen societies’ after they are trained in its operation and maintenance. Borewells will be drilled and other arrangements would be made to supply clean water to these laundries. 
 
 The idea is to throw open these laundries for people to come and drop their clothes and also door-to-door collection of clothes, in addition to washing dirty linen from government institutions. When contacted, Backward Classes welfare department principal secretary G Asok Kumar confirmed to TOI that they want to make mechanised laundries operational by August-end. “These mechanised laundries will also bring down the usage of water by over 50 per cent compared to the traditional way of washing clothes.
 
  Gloves, shoes and other equipment would also be given to the trained washermen operating these laundries,” he said. Officials said that the tariff for washing and ironing will be finalised soon but exuded confidence that it would be much less than the prevailing market prices. Tenders have already been invited. 
 
 The latest laundry machinery by nearly a dozen reputed companies with over Rs 75 crore annual turnover will be displayed at Ravindra Bharathi on July 31. Telangana Rajaka Sanghala State Committee convenor   thanked chief minister   for allocating Rs 250 crore for the welfare of the washermen community. “The Rajakas involved in playing musical instruments in marriages (mangala vaidyalu) will be given training and financial assistance to purchase the latest equipment and modernise their band,” he said.
 
