CHENNAI: AIADMK founding leader   dropped a bombshell on Tuesday, raising suspicions over former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's death, hinting it did not occur under natural circumstances.

 He also questioned the elevation of Sasikala as the party general secretary and the legislature party leader. Pandian’s is the first strong and serious note of dissent in AIADMK.
 
 
  
  "Sasikala cheated us and wants to be the chief minister,"   said at a press conference at his home here. "We oppose it," he said.
 
 The press conference was held two days after Sasikala was elected as the legislature party leader. It came a day after the state government facilitated a press conference for doctors who treated late party leader and chief minister J Jayalalithaa to dispel rumours surrounding her death.
 
 Pandian questioned the secrecy surrounding the death of Jayalalithaa. He pointed out the role played by Sasikala's family when Jayalalithaa was in hospital.
 
 Pandian said events that took place ahead of Jayalalithaa's hospitalisation should be probed involving those at home. "The hospital may cite patient's right of privacy, but no one at home can take this defence," the leader said.
  
 "There is no need for a postmortem. Even circumstantial evidence is enough," he said.
 
 “When Jayalalithaa didn't make her even councillor in her life time, how could Sasikala become general secretary of the party,” Pandian asked.
  
 "Only the cadre could elect a general secretary of the party as per bylaws framed in 1972 when the party was floated. Sasikala is unfit to become the general secretary and has no authority to appoint functionaries or allot two leaves symbol," he said.
 
 Pandian said Jayalalithaa, on her return from jail in 1996, declared to the party functionaries that all her belongings should go to the people.
  
 "She told me that I must see to it. I have a duty to fulfill her wish after her demise," he said.
  
 The former legal adviser of Jayalalithaa said that he was breaking his silence now after the recent developments, involving Sasikala being done in "haste."
 
 
