WASHINGTON: The   administration has been forced to back down from the presidential order selectively restricting entry into the US, setting up a potential confrontation between the executive and the judiciary , and pitting liberal, immigrant-welcoming states against a federal government accused of shutting doors.

 A George Bush-appointed federal district judge in Seattle in the Pacific Northwest state of Washington on Friday echoed rulings in New York, California, and Massachusetts (all liberal, Democrat-leaning states) while temporarily blocking President Trump's executive order from being enforced nationwide.
 
 The ruling immediately reopened US doors to travellers from seven Muslim-majority countries who were barred by the Trump executive order.
 
 The government is comp lying with the court ruling for now, communicating to airlines that they could let passengers with valid travel documents board, even as the President himself railed against it.
 
 The State Department announced it was reversing the cancellation of visas for nearly 60,000 travellers from seven Muslim-majority countries who had had their visas “provisionally revoked“ to comply with Trump's order blocking them from travelling to the US. US President   took to Twitter and blasted on Saturday a Seattle court's ruling that blocked the executive order on travel restrictions. “The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country , is ridiculous and will be overturned!“ Trump tweeted after administration officials had said they would challenge the ruling.
 
 An earlier   statement said the justice department would file for an emergency stay of the “outrageous“ ruling from the judge at the earliest. “The president's order is intended to protect the homeland and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to protect the American people,“ the statement said.
 
 A revised statement issued later omitted the word “outrageous“ for fear of pro voking the court, but Trump was blunt in calling the ruling “ridiculous“.
 
 Some of the earlier rulings had selectively allowed stranded passengers to return to their resident states, but the Washington judge went further than other rulings by ordering a nationwide injunction of the Trump order. The court ruling came from Judge James Ro bart after the state had challenged the executive order arguing it was separating families, damaging the states' economies, and undermining their “sovereign interest in re maining a welcoming place for immigrants and refugees“.
 
 States that have won injunction against the Presidential order are all typically bettereducated, higher-income, more open to immigrants, and have a more diverse population.
 
 Justifying his broad ruling, the judge cited the precedent of a federal district court in Texas that had blocked President  's plan to shield some undocumented immigrants from deportation nationwide and allow them to legally work in the US.
 
 Even as the US reversed the restrictions there was confusion at airports around the world as the White House vowed to quickly seek an emergency stay of the ruling.Etihad Airways, the UAE's national carrier, said in a statement: “Following advice received today from the US Customs and   unit at Abu Dhabi Airport, the airline will again be accepting nationals from the seven nations named last week.“ Other Arab carriers, including Qatar Airways, issued similar statements.
 
 But elsewhere, officials were being more cautious, advising travellers to wait for further clarity. The American Embassy in Baghdad said it was waiting for additional guidance from Washington.
 
 (With agency inputs)
 
