VARANASI: On the Congress-SP, alliance senior   leader and former Union minister of state for urban development Deepa Dasmunsi said that ‘nothing is impossible in politics, and the art of possibilities is politics’, while   vice president Kiranmoy Nanda said that the two parties joined hands to maintain ‘bhai-chara’ in the country. 

 Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Dasmunsi said that the two parties have come close to ‘save the UP’ and people should support ‘dono bhai’ (Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi). Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said demonetisation scared the foreign tourists from visiting India and also affected the common man adversely. 
 
 She furtehr aded that Modi’s ‘Swachha Bharat’ campaign is good for nothing. “Under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Mission (JNNURM) lots of funds were given by the UPA government for development of Varanasi, and many projects were started,” she added.
 
 However, she found it difficult to answer when asked as to why she being the minister did not come to Varanasi to take stock of the work being done under JNNURM. “I was not called. If the mayor was of the Congress, and I was called I would have definitely come to the city,” she said. On delay in implementation of JNNURM projects, she said that the matters like land acquisition are under the state government. When asked why Congress aligned with the SP whose government caused delay in projects, she tried to justify that the work dealyed were started during the BSP government. 
 
 SP vice president Kiranmoy Nanda also targeted the BJP and said that the PM failed to fulfill his promises. “The PM is holding 5-6 meeting in UP election campaign. It seems that he himself wants to become the chief minister of UP,” he said claiming that the SP-Congress alliance is going to form the next government in the state. 
 
 “The BJP has no CM face while SP has a popular CM face of Akhilesh Yadav, who is the favourite of 51% youth”, he said adding that all the four poll issues of the BJP including law and order, development, corruption and farmer are publicity stunt only. 
 
 “The BJP should see the track records of its own ruled states on these issues,” he added.
 
 
