Hubballi: The public hearing on  , organized by the district administration, received a huge response from students, farmers, seers,  ,   and social organizations in   village,   district, on Monday.

 Though 68 people had requested time to share their opinion, the administration could allow only 35. Except one, all the respondents favoured continuation of   tag to Kappatagudda hills. As many as 164 memoranda were submitted at the counter opened for the specific purpose on the occasion. Those demanding reinstatement of the conservation tag that was revoked by the state government in September 2016, included district in-charge minister H K Patil.
 
 Shivakumar Swami of Nandiveri Mutt, who is involved in protecting the forest in Kappatagudda, said that if the government cannot preserve hills, it should provide cyanide to people of the district. “We will not let anti-environment activities in this hilly region,” he said.
 
  of  , Gadag, said that the government should respect the opinion of 25 villages from 15 gram panchayat who are opposing mining activities in the hills. “The government should reinstate the conservation reserve tag immediately,” he said.
 
 Initiating the debate, Deputy commissioner   said that the public meeting was called as per direction of the forest department. “We will collect all opinions and submit a report to the government,” he said.
 
 Chief conservator of forests, Krishna Udapudi said that Kappatagudda is spread over 33,000 hectares of area. “Out of this area, 17,872 hectares was identified by the government as conservation reserve area on December 19, 2015. But it was cancelled without considering public opinion,” he said.
 
 There was exchange of words when principle chief conservator of forests (wildlife) B G Hosmath asked activists not to mention the issue of mining. People expressed their ire while officials of Baldota company, which has got the nod to take up mining activities in the region, tried to convince that there will be no harm to the environment. When officials opined that Kappatagudda has no eligibility of getting conservation reserve tag, the crowd demanded an apology from the company. Jain tried pacifying the situation in vain. As a result, officials of Baldota were sent to safer places under police security.
 
 MLC S V Sankanur, former MLA Chandrakant Bellad, CPM leader Siddanagouda Patil, ayurveda expert Dr G B Patil, activist Y N Gowdar and Congress leader T Ishwar were present on the occasion.
 
 MLAs break silence
 
 After the cancellation of conservation reserve tag to Kappatagudda, MLAs of the district, including the district in charge H K Patil, broke their silence over the issue and stood by the people. Patil said that he favours protecting hills as a citizen and environment enthusiast. “If Kappatagudda is destroyed, it will definitely cause a natural disaster to the region,” he said. Shirahatti MLA Ramakrishna Doddamani and Ron MLA GS Patil seconded Patil’s stand.
 
 
