GURGAON: Where is  ? 

 This was a strange disappearance even for a city that is no stranger to snatchings. You hear of cars and bikes stolen at gunpoint, chains and jewellery pinched by bikers every day. But a dog snatched from the hands of its master, right outside a gated society, during a leisurely afternoon stroll? 
 
 The disappearance of Hobbes is now the subject of a full-fledged police investigation. Police said dog theft cases were not unheard of in Gurgaon but they hadn’t come across a snatching of this kind before. 
 
 A golden-haired  , Hobbes had been taken for his usual walk outside his home, Vatika City on  , on Tuesday afternoon. He was ambling alongside his 80-year-old master, Wing Commander B R Mehta (retd), when a youth walked up to Mehta and pleaded that he be allowed to walk the dog. When Mehta refused, the youth pushed him, grabbed the leash and ran away with his pet. Hobbes, who had been with Mehta for nine years, was gone in an instant. 
 
 Understandably, the Mehta family is distraught. For them, the nine-year-old Hobbes was a family member. All through Wednesday, they put up posters of their missing pet in nearby areas, and also announced a reward for anyone who helps find Hobbes. Mehta’s daughter-in-law Supriya lodged a complaint at Sadar police station. An FIR was filed against the unidentified snatcher. What section to invoke, though, was the next question. Eventually, police decided on the regular chain-snatching section, 379A of the IPC. 
 
 Police said Hobbes was snatched from Mehta around 4pm from the green belt outside Vatika City. The snatcher is believed to be a young man in his mid-20s. “The youth introduced himself to my father-in-law as a neighbour and claimed he was known to the family,” said Supriya. “The youth first begged him to hand him the dog’s leash. But when my father-in-law said he wouldn’t, he pushed him. My father-in-law fell to ground, but luckily wasn’t injured. The youth, in the meantime, fled with Hobbes,” Supriya added. 
 
 A shaken Mehta was escorted back to his house by his family members, who he called from his cellphone after Hobbes was stolen from him. 
 
 “This is not a case of snatching alone, but also an assault on a senior citizen,” Supriya said. “Hobbes was like family. He’s been with us for nine years. The price is irrelevant in this case, even though a Labrador costs around Rs 25,000 in the market these days. We are appealing to citizens through our posters and also demand police action against the snatcher.” 
 
 Dogs of good pedigree, particularly imported breeds, are targeted by thieves for breeding. And while the snatching of Hobbes has surprised cops in Gurgaon, similar instances have been reported from Delhi. It’s a lucrative trade as the puppies fetch high prices. Animal rights activists have raised concerns about this with the police before. 
 
 The hunt for Hobbes has so far drawn a blank. “We visited the spot on Wednesday and went through CCTV footage of the area, but the incident was not captured on camera,” said Surender Singh, the investigating officer. 
 
 
