In the gathering dusk, with a winter mist creeping in, Babu Khan’s faded coat and tattered muffler tell a cold tale of misery. He is a raj mistri (mason), a respected elder in the predominantly Muslim village of Khanpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district. Two months of unbroken joblessness has broken him.

 “I used to earn up to Rs 10,000 a month when the going was good. After the note ban, I haven’t got a single day’s work,” he tells TOI. Many others with him — mostly workers in the rural construction sector — vehemently agree.
 
 Sentiments such as these find echo through a 400km swathe in southern  , from the districts of Mathura to Auraiya. Sand mining, road work and activities linked with construction have juddered to a halt following demonetisation, with ripple effects touching all aspects of the rural economy.
 
 “People don’t have cash to get a house built or even to get repairs done. They have postponed this work to later when cash becomes available,” explains  , another mistri.
 
 Related activities like sand mining from the three rivers nearby — Yamuna, Chambal and Kunwari — has also stopped. A damaged bridge across the Chambal has also contributed to this.
 
 In Uttar Pradesh, an estimated 29.7 million cubic metres of sand worth about Rs 534 crore was mined from riverbeds in 2014-15, according to the state’s geology and mining directorate, providing work to thousands. Many poor people from   and Auraiya districts find employment loading and unloading trucks with sand. Brick kilns or bhattas too have not reopened after  , as they customarily do. Bhatta workers TOI spoke to said that because of cash shortage, bhatta owners told them not to come. “I used to work at a bhatta nearby, earning about Rs 250 daily.
 
 But it has not opened since Diwali. Before that it was closed for the rains. So, actually I am unemployed for five months,” said Ashish Kumar, a Dalit resident of Ankodiya village in Etawah. Majority of bhatta workers are Jatavs (a dalit community).
 
 In Khanpur, many owners of horse-carts and bullock carts — the poor man’s transport and widely used for carrying stuff like construction material, garbage, offal etc — have been sitting idle. Dependent on cash transactions, they too sank with the sinking construction economy.
 
 Raj Kumar, an agricultural laborer-cum-vegetable vendor, complained that his income had dropped in both of his vocations. “Casual labour work is nowadays not available and when it is, I get paid only Rs 150 compared to Rs 250 earlier. And profit margin in vegetables is also down,” he said. In   and   villages in Mathura district, many labourers said that they are facing difficulty because of lack of work.
 
 
 
 
