LUCKNOW: Was the IAS officer murdered hours before his body was found? The first photograph of the crime scene—in TOI’s possession—shows heavy bleeding from Anurag Tewari’s nose and chin. The blood on officer’s face, according to medico-legal experts, was not fresh. They also maintained that the way it clotted suggests the body had remained in one position for more than an hour.

 Police records show first information reached the local policemen around 5.45am and officer’s body had been noticed around 15 minutes before. By the time policeman   responded to the call, three to four persons had gathered around the body.
 
 Medico-legal experts, who examined the first photographs taken at the crime scene and the post mortem report told TOI that Anurag seemed to have been killed between 2am and 3am. Apart from relying on the pattern of blood found on the face, experts also observed stages of digestion.
 
 After dinner, Anurag left a restaurant in Hazratganj along with his batch mate — LDA vice-chairman PN Singh — at 10.10pm. Police found Anurag was a strict vegetarian and ate   at the restaurant. After a while, Anurag and Singh reached the guest house .
 
 “Postmortem report says 520ml of semi-digested food was found in Anurag’s body. His gall bladder was also half full. Digested food, gases and faecal material were noted in his intestines. Normally, stomach empties within two hours. Even if Anurag had oily food comprising maida, which takes longer to digest, it would not take more than four hours for it to get digested. But in this case there was 520 ml material in the system, which indicates death sometime between 2am and 3am,” said head of forensic medicine at a private university, Dr Abhas Kumar Singh.
 
 P N Singh said he went to sleep by 11.10pm and Anurag was with him. Police have not been able to establish if Anurag ate something later on. Former director of UP’s medico-legal cell, doctor YK Pathak said in case he had eaten last at 10pm, Anurag must have been killed between 2am and 3am. 
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said he would take opinion of doctors posted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and forward postmortem report, CD of videography of   and photographs to them. “Viscera samples will also be sent to central laboratories,” he added.
 
