NEW DELHI: The Centre is considering proposals that may significantly increase wages under  , with a panel of secretaries likely to start consultations with states next month. 

 At a press conference addressed by Union rural development minister  , it was revealed that the government was looking into the recommendation that wages under the job guarantee scheme be higher or on a par with the minimum wages notified by states.
 
  It is also considering a proposal for annual revision of   based on consumer price index (CPI)-rural, as against the present review based on CPI-agriculture labour. CPI-rural is higher since it factors in expenditure on a bigger basket of products. 
 
  If approved, the twin initiatives will increase wages under the job scheme, though experts don't yet have figures on its ultimate effect on finances. 
 
 "We are looking into the suggestion of the S   to change the baseline for revision of wages paid under   to CPI-rural from CPI-AL, but the final call will be taken after consultation with all state governments," rural develoment secretary Amarjeet Sinha said.
 
 After the finance ministry recently sought more consultations on the proposal, drafted as a follow-up to the Mahendra Dev panel's recommendations, the rural development ministry formed a secretarial panel to confer with states.
 
 The wider discussion is necessitated by the fact that every state has a different minimum wage. The minimum wage in half the states is less than that under MGNREGS, but higher in the other half.
 
 Meanwhile, rural development minister Tomar said the Centre was set to launch a sub-mission to provide safe drinking water to 28,000 habitations affected by arsenic and fluoride.
 
  The programme, to be carried out over the next four years, will provide funding only to the arsenic- and fluoride-affected population, with the Centre and states sharing the expenditure equally, except for the north-eastern and Himalayan region, where states will provide only 10% of the funds. 
 
  Tomar said the total expenditure on the sub-mission would be an estimated Rs 25,000 crore. 
 
 
