CHENNAI: Breaking a decadeslong tradition, the   on Thursday announced that it would do away with the ranking system for Class X and XII   in an attempt to promote  . The announcement came a day ahead of the Class XII state board results.
School education minister K A Sengottaiyan made the announcement soon after a high level panel meeting with education department officials on Thursday afternoon. 
 
 “Ranking is a way of discriminating among students and causes mental agony , not just for students but also for parents.Hence, we have abolished the system. A GO has been issued regarding the same,“ the minister said, expressing hope that students, parents and schools would welcome the move. This means that names of the first three rank holders at both state and district level will not be revealed on Friday when results are announced.The government is following in the footsteps of CBSE and a few other state education departments which do not announce ranks during results.
 
 The Tamil Nadu Students' Parents Welfare Association welcomed it saying this would help ease pressure on children. State president of the association, S Arumai nathan said “It will be a psychological relief for both parents and students. We are happy about this change in the ranking system and wanted it to happen earlier.“
 
 The government order is sued by the education department said the present system led to competition among schools, which used marks to promote their institutions. It further said that the department has come to know of instances where students faced discrimination, and difficulties in facing competition, due to the stress caused by the ranking system. “Education is not merely writing an exam. We don't want to encourage a system where students who get top marks alone are celebrated. The move will help treat all students, from both government and private schools, equally ,“ said education department officials.
 
 R Vishalakshi, president of Private Schools Association, said it was a good move for creating healthy competition. “In the past 10 years, there has been marketing based on ranking which is not right. This will lead schools towards healthy competition and delivery of quality education rather than mark-based education,“ she said. However, she acknowledged that children anticipating a state rank would be disappointed by the announcement.
 
 While students were taken aback by the timing of the announcement just ahead of the results, educationists said the bigger goal was more important and would allow children to enjoy learning and its outcomes. P B Prince Gajendrababu, general secretary of the State Platform for Common School System, pointed out that this change in the education system would not only reduce discrimination but also do away with the practice of commercial enterprises advertising about their rank holders.
 
 
 
 
 While the main agenda for the committee meeting on Thursday was to discuss the syllabus revision for state board schools, the minister said that many suggestions were given by the chief minister as well as committee members regarding the revision and the matter was under consideration. The minister also announced that it is working on a scholarship scheme for Tamil medium students.
 
