KOLKATA: Presidency University’s  , which will continue throughout the year, have already created an enviable asset that will be cherished by generations to come. From   worth a few crores to recordings of every lecture by guest speakers at the   will be available to every student in the future. 

 “We have increased the facilities to provide modern classrooms with audio visual and e-facilities. Every department has a seminar room with modern facilities to arrange international-level seminars,” said vice-chancellor Anur-adha Lohia. 
 
 For the mathematics department, it’s a time to rejoice. The department now has a full section in the iconic Baker building. 
 
 “The mathematics department has shifted to a new floor with 12 classrooms, a laboratory and faculty staff rooms,” said Lohia. The iconic Baker Laboratory has also received a facelift, including recasting of the floor and ceiling. All precautions have been taken to minimise further deterioration of the floors.
 
 The main campus now has more space than before. A mezzanine floor has been added to the physics department to accommodate research laboratories. 
 
 In the main building, the finance department and registrar’s office have also got mezzanine floors. 
 
 “A student zone has been created with an open-air stage. New space for offices, like the union room and activity rooms, have been added. Pramod-da’s canteen has also been renovated, keeping the old charm intact,” she said.
 
 Another addition to the institution is a state-of-the-art auditorium. The Derozio auditorium has been revamped, the foyer has been reconstructed, acoustic panelling, along with modern sound and light provisions have also been created.
 
 Even the surroundings of the university, including the ‘boi para’, has been rejuvenated with a touch of paint and restructuring. 
 
 Booksellers have been rehabilitated in new stalls, which are in tune with the Presidency structure and colours. “The boi para revamp will be completed over the next few months,” the vice-chancellor said.
 
 The first phase of the bicentenary celebrations being over, some changes in the academic structure are next in line. Lohia explained, “While the first part of the celebrations have focused on the improvement of existing infrastructure and creating new ones, the rest of the year will be dedicated to create new academic opportunities for the students.”
 
 The 200-year celebrations will end with the inauguration of the new campus in New Town.
 
 
