SURAT: Just two days after her husband embraced monkhood, 34-year-old  , who had postponed diksha, followed in her husband's footsteps to become a   at a brief ceremony here on Monday. It was earlier believed that Anamika had postponed taking   so that their three-year-old girl is not deprived of love.

 However, on Monday Anamika took vows of renouncing worldly pleasures after her family members began legal formalities for custody of her daughter in their home town Neemuch,  .
 
 Her husband, Sumit Rathore, 35, who owns Rs 100 crore business of manufacturing cement bags and import-export, had become Sumit Muni after receiving diksha from Sadhumargi Jain Samaj Acharya Ram Lalaji Maharaj at an event held in the presence of hundreds of people here on Saturday .
 
 Anamika was also given diksha by Sadhumargi Jain Samaj Acharya Ram Lalaji Maharaj. She became Sadhvi Anakar Shreeji after her initiation. “The legal formalities for adoption and custody of the child are being completed by family members in Neemuch. The child is being taken care of by the family,“ Jain community leader Indrachand Kher said.
 
 Earlier, a controversy over the future of the couple's three-year-old girl had delayed Anamika's diksha. The Gujarat State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (GSCPCR) and Gujarat State Commission for Women (GSCW) had sought reports from Surat district collector and police commissioner in the case. And only after meeting with Surat police commissioner Satish Sharma and child protection officer, Anamika had postponed the diksha.
 
 But Anamika was not disheartened after the controversy over her child and started living like a nun with Jain sadhvis soon after her husband's initiation into monkhood. The couple had made up their mind on becoming monks about two years ago.
 
 “We came to know from some Jain community leaders that Anamika took diksha on Monday . However, we were not informed officially . No documents have been produced to police about the guardianship of their child which was main contention of postponing the earlier event,“ said Satish Sharma.
 
 District collector M S Patel also said that he came to know about Anamika's diksha only through sources and was not informed officially . “We had received an RTI from one Chandravadan Dhruv seeking reply on future of the couple's three year old daughter. We forwarded the RTI application to Surat collector and police commissioner. We have learnt that the child will be brought up by the maternal family . As it is a religious matter, we cannot intervene beyond a point,“ said Jagruti Pandya, chairperson of GSCPCR.
 
