AGRA: The year old issue of an AMU   allegedly making " " statement and criticizing the government's handling of Kashmir issue has once again rocked the university with the ABVP demanding stern action against him.

 Though this controversy has been going on for the last one year, as no action was taken against the associate professor,  , despite an inquiry reportedly indicting him, allegations that he has been continuing with his tirade in classes have resurfaced. The ABVP has now submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate demanding registration of cases against Dr Khan for his "anti-national" activities and his removal from the university.
 
 When contacted AMU Registrar, Dr Javaid Akhter, said the earlier inquiry report was submitted a year ago to the Vice Chancellor, who had called Dr Khan and instructed him not to discuss anything other than his subject. He said that the inquiry report had stated that Dr Khan did discuss issues other than his subject during his classes. However, Dr Akhter claimed that there was nothing "anti-national" in Dr Khan's utterances.
 
 According to university sources, a complaint that Dr Khan had been making undesirable comments against Modi and on government's handling of Kashmir situation was submitted by 30 students, only 14 had confirmed their signatures on it.
 
 Interestingly, though AMU PRO, Omar Peerzada denied that any complaint was ever submitted against Dr Khan, the university's response to a RTI reveals that an inquiry was conducted. In a recent response to a RTI filed by   regarding this complaint, Chairman of department of Islamic studies, Prof Sayyid Ahsan has responded saying, "students had put up a complaint in February 2016 about Dr Abdul Majid Khan’s outburst in the class. I had sent the complaint to VC and no action was taken against the teacher as it is not the prerogative of the chairman". The response also states that an inquiry committee was formed and they had visited the department and the concerned class but what transpired after that was not known.
 
 In the complaint, filed by BA (Hons) IV semester (Subsidiary subject- Islamic studies) then, it was alleged that Dr Khan, in his classes, always criticized the working of the Modi government and questioned government's stand of Kashmir, accusing it of "destroying the state". It was also alleged that Dr Khan used abusive language and was extremely critical of army's role in Kashmir.
 
 The complaint also stated that Dr Khan used provocative language and claimed that if the community had shown guts the demolition of Babri Masjid wouldn't have happened.
 
 According to Yogendra Verma of ABVP, they had picked up this issue after the RTI response of Chairman of department of Islamic studies, Prof Sayyid Ahsan, surfaced, "we were not aware of this issue and it is clear that the university authorities are trying to push it under the carpet", he said adding they would now ensure that this issue is taken to its logical conclusion. 
 
