KOTA: Union minister of urban development, housing & urban poverty alleviation   said that with the aim to double the income of farmers by 2022, the Centre and the state government are focusing on four 'I' i.e. Irrigation, Infrastructure,   and Insurance.

 He said evergreen revolution has started in the country under the able leadership of Prime Minister   and in Rajasthan under the leadership of chief minister  .
 
 Naidu along with Raje inaugurated Global Rajasthan Agritech Meet (GRAM-2017) at RAC Ground in Kota on Wednesday. The organization of divisional-level GRAM in Kota is a step forward in this direction, he said.
 
 Naidu said, “The country is making progress in every sector but there is much needed to be done in agriculture sector. He said imparting latest technological knowledge, development of advanced markets, agro-processing facilities and development of basic infrastructure is necessary for farmers,” he said.
 
 He said, “We need to develop villages and cities simultaneously if we want to develop the nation. Keeping this in view, smart city and Adarsh Gram schemes have been launched by the Centre. The GRAM will help farmers to learn about new techniques, instruments, crop cycles, agro processing methods and other innovations in agriculture sector,” he said.
 
 While addressing the gathering at GRAM, Raje called upon farmers to adopt organic farming and said crops produced using organic farming fetch higher prices and are also good for health.
 
 She asked farmers to keep some part of their land separate for organic farming. To promote organic farming around 1150 clusters are being prepared, she said.
 
 The chief minister said, if any farmer is willing to set up agro-processing unit with the investment of Rs 40 lakh, the government will provide subsidy of up to Rs 20 lakh. It is the time for farmers to get involved in agro-processing and agro industries to increase their income, she said.
 
 She said, crop loan worth Rs 15, 000 crore has been distributed in the state which has benefited around 25 lakh farmers.
 
 
