MUMBAI: In a move that could have political repercussions, the state government proposes to permanently disband the board of directors of the   ( ) and appoint a senior IAS-rank officer to manage its day-to-day affairs.
 
    is considered the largest marketing yard for agriculture produce in India with an annual business worth Rs 10,000 crore and revenue of over Rs 150 crore that is generated by levy of various cess on farmers and traders.
  
  Considering the money involved, political parties would do all to have the committee in their control. For years, most directors nominated to the board of the committee have been from the NCP and the  . There have been several complaints that the board had become a hub of corruption.
  
  “The marketing department has asked the director’s (marketing) office to table a proposal seeking amendment of the APMC Act to disband the board of directors permanently,” said an official. The proposal has to come from the director of marketing as elections and formation of the board is under its jurisdiction.
  
  The panel has 26 directors; some of the ex-directors have been MLAs, MLCs and even ministers. The last board, after two extensions (see box), was dissolved by the BJP government following complaints of financial irregularities and mismanagement.
  
 It had appointed IAS officer   to oversee the working of the committee. Complaints of mismanagement have reduced and the revenue of the APMC has increased since.
  
  “The government will take these two years as the reference point to suggest that there is no need for a board. An administrator can run the committee effectively,” said another official.
  
  Besides introducing agriculture reforms by cleaning up the system and making it farmer-oriented, the move is also being seen as an attempt by the Devendra Fadnavis government to wrestle control of the committee from the opposition, said officials. The members to the board of this committee are elected indirectly from different district-level committees, and since the NCP and Congress have a tight grip on these committees in rural  , their members would eventually get nominated to the board of the Mumbai APMC.
  
  The APMC is not new to controversies. Former directors, including ministers, are being investigated in a multi-crore FSI scam. In 2013, the directors gave some 350 shop owners extra FSI. The rate charged was Rs 600 per sq ft, against the ready reckoner rate of Rs 4,000 per sq ft and market rate of Rs 10,000 per sq ft. This irregularity was brought to the government’s notice by some complainants and the Bombay high court’s had ordered a probe.
  
  
