MANALI: Government of India's hyped " " initiative has turned out to be a big joke in remote areas of Himachal. These areas are still deprived of   and even telephone connectivity is in a state of shambles. The entire Spiti valley has no internet service but only Kaza, Tabo, Sagnam and nearby places have limited connectivity. People of Kaza get 2G signals on a lucky day but downloading is a problem. Tabo and Sagnam enjoy BSNL network but no internet service.

 The areas near Nako, Chango and upper reaches of Kinnaur have no phone connection. The remote areas of Kullu, Mandi, Chamba, Kangra and many other districts have limited internet access. BSNL has recently introduced 3G in Lahaul but the connectivity is poor. 
 
 BSNL's landline services used to be a reliable source of broadband connectivity but cable theft has crippled the services. Most areas are devoid of landline facility. Many areas of Lahaul and Killar in Chamba have landline service, but no broadband facilities. BSNL is the main service provider in remote areas of Himachal. Only Kullu district had more than 25,000 landline connections few years back and now after frequent disconnections the number of connection in entire Kullu, Lahaul and Killar is less than 10,000.
 
 "Digital India is limited to certain areas. BSNL claims it's giving us 2G connectivity but a file of 50kb takes more than 10 minutes to download," rues  , a resident of Talangbe village of Lahaul. "We hardly get 2G signals. We don't have smooth phone connectivity. Our phones do not work in winter. Now the connectivity is inconsistent even in summer. Some areas which have 3G service too have no internet speed. While world is talking about 5G and 6G, we are dreaming about 3G."
 
 Surender Sharma, who works at Kaza, said, "Internet service here makes us fools. We cannot use it properly. If the government dreams of a cashless India, then it should realize that it may take at least 10 more years to connect us with proper phone and internet services." 
 
 Telecom district manager LD Negi said Jispa, Kardang, Udaipur, Gondla and Baring have now 3G connectivity and efforts are on to connect maximum areas with high speed internet. "Some areas of Lahaul have landline services, but our exchanges do not have capacity to provide broadband services. Damage in the optical fibre cable is a major problem of Lahaul valley which shuts down services until it is repaired," he said.
 
