Mumbai: Of the 2.4 crore   in the state,   of one crore users are being done through the   introduced six months ago, announced the state electricity distributor on Thursday. While this may bring some relief to officials, they still face the challenging task of recovering arrears from the ‘defaulters’ totalling to Rs 29,000 crore.

 “Over 10 lakh consumers have downloaded our mobile app in the past seven months. They send us a picture of their meter reading via the app and we then bill them accordingly,” said a senior official of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd ( ). Also, 20,000 new power connections were given based on applications made on the app, he added. 
 
 The app also tracks the distribution of electricity from transformers/substations to each household which helps detect any kind of power distribution loss or theft. 
 
 “We encourage more power consumers, especially from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, to connect with us through the app,” added the official. “Users can also lodge complaints for faulty billing or any other issue and get daily status of their complaints.” 
 
 On Thursday, MSEDCL managing director Sanjeev Kumar told TOI he conducted a review meeting of four regional directors, chief engineers of 16 zones and other senior officers, and issued directives to recover the dues. Sources said a warning has been given to officers who ‘deviate from the task of recovering the arrears’.
 
 Kumar said the power utility firm’s financial condition is ‘not very good’ at present and there’s no other option but to recover the billing arrears. “Regular recovery drive is necessary, along with the recovery of bill from permanent disconnection consumers,” he said, while instructing officials to cross-check whether consumers whose connections were disconnected were not using electricity from any illegal source. Sources said that of the defaulters who owed MSEDCL Rs 29,000 crore, the arrears from the farm sector alone aggregated to Rs 17,000 crore.
 
 
