CHENNAI: In a tragic incident, a 56-year-old man died after a pile of sand fell on him in the underground drainage trench he was digging at New Kumaran Nagar in Sholinganallur on Friday morning. Rescuers, however, managed to pull his co-worker out alive in an operation lasting nearly five hours.

 Police identified the deceased as M  , a native of Vandavasi, Tiruvannamalai, and the rescued man as P Balasubramani, 48, a native of Villupuram.
 
 A team of 15 workers from Panaiyur had been engaged in digging the trench from 9 am to 5pm. Work on the drain network in the area, that had come uner the city corpoartion in 2011, has been going on for the past one year, police said.
 
 Aroun 9.45am, witnesses later told police, four workers were in the 10-foot-deep trench when the sand caved in at the spot where the two Balasubramanis were working. Steel boards fixed to prevent such an eventuality gave way, trapping the two inside.
 
 The two workers who managed to come up alerted fire and rescue services personnel. Soon, fire tenders from Thuraipakkam, Guindy, and Adyar and arrived, but rescue personnel found it difficult as rods protruded out. Finally, around 2.30pm, they managed to pull M Balasubramani out. His colleague was brought up a short while later. While the first man died on the way to   (GRH), the other is recovering.
 
 The cave-in was very swift, said Manikandan, one of the 15 workers. “We tried to pull them out but in vain,” he said.
 
 The Sholinganallur police registered a case. The steel boards may have been of poor quality, a police officer said. “A detailed inquiry is on and the authorities responsible for it will be booked,” he said. 
 
 Murugan, a relative of the deceased man, said he had came from his village the previous night and joined the team of workers.
 
 Ravichandran, Sholinganallur station fire officer, team said, “We received the call at 10.15am and pressed 25 personnel into service. We wanted to bring out both workers alive fast as there were chances of more sand caving in”. 
 
 Residents of the area said that engineers had visited the site only during morning hours.
 
