KOCHI: Shortage of doctors and paramedical staff at   (EGH) has put patients in jeopardy. 

 Mini, a resident of Palluruthy, who came to the hospital for a   had to wait for hours to consult a doctor.
 
 “I took the test at   desk, and had to wait to meet the doctor for the results. I had to wait for hours just to talk to the doctor,” she said.
 
 Dr Cyriac PJ, RMO of the hospital, said only two physicians were available at the hospital. “We need the service of five physicians but three posts are vacant,” he said. 
 
 “On Monday alone, the hospital recorded 154 confirmed viral   cases and three dengue cases till 2pm. If the number of cases go up, it will be difficult for us to handle the situation,” said Dr Cyriac. 
 
 The hospitals witness rush at outpatient wing till noon every day. Sudheer, a resident of Chullikkal, said three weeks ago he went to consult a physician at the general hospital. He said as the doctor was not there a nurse prescribed him tablets. 
 
 “The medicines were prescribed without conducting blood tests. So I decided to consult a doctor at another hospital,” he said. Many patients depend on private hospital as they feel that they would get immediate help. “We have to mainly deal with viral fever and dengue cases,” said Ashok Kumar, junior health inspector. Meanwhile, DMO NK Kuttappan said they had given permission to block and grama panchayats to recruit paramedical staff. 
 
 He also said time schedule at outpatient counters had been extended, particularly at taluk hospitals.
 
 Meanwhile, both doctors and patients blame the local bodies, panchayats, municipalities and Kochi corporation for the present scenario. 
 
 The authorities have failed to prevent mosquito breeding. Improper waste disposal, open and clogged drains and unclean canals are the main reasons for the outbreak of vector-borne diseases.
 
 “The authorities should have a clear policy to prevent dumping of waste. They should keep a watch on people engaging in such acts and slap hefty fines,” said Sabu George, former deputy mayor of Kochi corporation.
 
