MUMBAI: Two convicts in terror cases, serving life imprisonment, have been granted seven-day parole by the   to participate in the   of their  . Mushtaque Tarani has been found guilty in the 1993 serial blasts case, while Wahid Ansari, a former medical practitioner, has been convicted in the 2003 Mulund train blast case. 

 In August last year, the state government issued a notification banning parole for convicts in rape, narcotics and terror cases and brought in the Maharashtra Prisons (Mumbai Furlough and Parole) Amendment Rules, 2016, after Sajjad Mughal, the convict in Wadala lawyer Pallavi Purkayastha’s murder case, jumped parole. The parole period for all categories of prisoners has been reduced from 90 to 45 days—it can be extended up to 60 days once in three years only in exceptional circumstances.
 
 Tarani, who was held guilty of all 12 charges including planting an RDX-filled suitcase at Juhu Centaur on March 12, 1993, in his petition before the HC said that his brother Hanif died on December 28, 2016, and he wanted to attend the rituals. Assistant public prosecutor informed the court that Tarani was earlier sentenced to death, which was later converted into life sentence, and hence, it was decided not to release him on parole for seven days. Instead, the prosecutor told the court that Tarani would be taken under police escort to attend the 40th day rituals. According to the new amendment,   can also be granted for seven days in case of death, the court was informed. Tarani was granted parole on January 19.
 
 In the second case, Ansari first filed an application for parole before the prison authorities, but it was rejected. Later, he approached the HC for a 10-day parole to attend the 40th day rituals of his mother Maimunnisa’s death. The jail granted only one day emergency parole. The high court said that emergency parole can be granted in case of death of parents/siblings, children or spouse and granted him parole for seven days and directed him to report to the BKC police station every day. 
 
 In 2016, Ansari was convicted for conspiracy, assembling bomb among other charges in the 2003 Mulund train blast case. Police had alleged that his clinic was as a meeting point for the accused.
 
 
