Kolkata: After Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Chandigarh and Patna, it’s now time for Kolkata to implement the Unit Area Assessment (UAA) method for determination of   tax. A proposal was passed in the   on Thursday, which will enable the civic top brass to roll out the new method from April 1. 

 Under the new system, a property owner can assess his/her own property online and determine the amount of tax payable using instructions given on the   website — https://www.kmcgov.in. A property owner can also visit the assessment-collection department of the KMC borough offices or e-governance centres of the civic body located across the city. 
 
 Mayor   on Thursday announced that though the UAA method will be operational from April 1, the assessment department will send tax bills to assesees under the current valuation process. “Property owners will be allowed to pay their outstanding bills under the current method (rental base). In the meantime, the tax payer can enroll for the UAA system. We will adjust the bills after the switch over is complete,” Chatterjee said.
 
 “However, any deviation from the declared statement will attract penalty,” warned the mayor. 
 
 Chatterjee added that under no circumstances would the tax increase by more than 20%. 
 
 “UAA has proved to be a scientific system of determining property tax in some Indian cities. We are set to experiment with this new system. At the same time, we have decided to put a 20% cap on either increase or decrease in the tax rate from the present annual rent-based valuation system,” a KMC official said.
 
 Under the new system, the entire city will be divided into seven zones depending on the location and civic amenities being enjoyed by a property owner in that area.
 
 Some of the areas which will fall in category A include Burrabazar, BBD Bag, JL Nehru Road, Park Street, Alipore, Minto Park, Mullick Bazar, Gokhale Road. Localities like Sealdah, Phoolbagan, Kankurgachi, Ultadanga, Harish Mukherjee Road, Gariahat, Rashbehari Avenue, New Alipore and Southern Avenue will fall in category B. Parts of Bagbazar, Shyambazar, Girish Park, College Street, Subhas Sarobar and adjacent areas, Bowbazar, Bhowanipore, Jodhpur Park, areas adjacent to South City Mall and Calcutta Golf Club will come under category C.
 
  Areas near Sinthee, Dum Dum, Belgachia, Beadon Street, Ahiritola, Kumartuli, Bosepukur, areas from Taratala to James Long Sarani in Behala and Bansdroni will come under category D. Chitpore, Bagmari, Watgunge, Garfa, Ekbalpore and   will come under group E. A part of Beliaghata, the rest of Behala and Metiabruz will come under category F. Dhapa and other fringe areas will be included in category G.
 
