CHANDIGARH: Former cricketer and three-time MP   on Friday launched the first volley of attacks on the ruling Badal clan, saying the first family from   (SAD) has bungled up revenues in excise, tourism and transport.

 Addressing mediapersons here, Sidhu, who joined the   last week, took swipes at SAD supremo Sukhbir Badal for promoting his business while keeping state-owned PSUs in losses.
 
 “This man Sukhbir Badal sold government-owned hotels and resorts to his business associates at throwaway prices. Instead, we have entry by Sukhbir in the periphery of Chandigarh with a hotel named after him that charges an astronomical Rs 5 lakh per night. Is this man the beneficiary of his government or was he supposed to make all of Punjab beneficiary? He and his family are looters of Punjab,” said Sidhu.
 
 The firebrand cricketer compared the excise collection figures of Punjab and Tamil Nadu and said that the southern state collected far more revenues despite having less liquor consumption than here.
 
 “Around 12,500 liquor vends and their annual revenue collection is a paltry Rs 5,610 crore while people consume liquor here more. In Tamil Tandu, the revenue is Rs 26,188 crore from 6,323 liquor vends. Punjab has the highest per capita alcohol consumption. But unfortunately, the trade has been monopolized and is being controlled by Sukhbir Badal or his family members for the past 10 years. Every bottle or pint sold in Punjab belongs to Badals, that’s the bitter truth of this state,” said Sidhu.
 
 “Before Akalis came to power in 2007, the Badal family owned 50 buses, but now their number stands at 650 and the number of transport companies owned by the family has risen from two to eight. It is because of these issues that the state’s debt rose from Rs 44,000 crore to Rs 2 lakh crore in a decade.”
 
 He said he would launch more disclosures in the coming days at his rallies. “My role is to do heavy campaigning to make the party win the polls, not negotiate on any position,” said Sidhu.
 
 He also defended criticism over his born Congressman remark and his earlier diatribes against the same party on 1984 riots. “Manmohan Singh in his tenure as the Prime Minister had already sought forgiveness," he said.
 
 He also insisted that he had met Aam Aadmi Party supremo   but his party didn’t want him to contest the polls. “I didn’t demand anything. Even Kejriwal tweeted this. But what I couldn’t understand was why he or his party didn’t want me to contest the polls,” said Sidhu.
 
 
