DEHRADUN: The   will approach the   to “put forth its view” on the Uttarakhand high court’s decision to grant living status to Ganga, citing “technical, geographical and administrative issues” with implementation of the order as the   through five states.
 
  Urban development minister and spokesperson of the state government Madan Kaushik told TOI that after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the Uttarakhand government has written a letter to the Centre to seek its permission to approach the Supreme Court. Kaushik said that Uttarakhand was asking the Union government’s permission since the latter has filed a Special Leave Petition in the apex court in this regard. “The Centre found that it was not under the jurisdiction of the Uttarakhand high court to give the judgment as Ganga passes through five states so it filed a Special Leave Petition in the Supreme court,” Kaushik said.
  
  In a landmark judgment on March 20 this year, the Uttarakhand high court accorded the status of “living human entities” to Ganga and Yamuna, two of India’s most sacred rivers. The court had also ordered that the director,   project for cleaning and rejuvenating the river, the chief secretary and the advocate general of Uttarakhand will act as the “legal parents” of the holy rivers and work as the human face to protect, conserve and preserve them and their tributaries.
  
  Talking to TOI, Kaushik said, “Let me be very clear that we are not against according of living entity status to the two holy rivers Ganga and Yamuna. But while according the legal status of living humans to Ganga and Yamuna, the high court has named chief secretary of Uttarakhand, Namami Gange Director and advocate general of the state the legal parents of the two rivers. But how can chief secretary here be held accountable if the river is polluted in West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand or Uttar Pradesh?”
  
  Kaushik added, “We just want an opportunity to put forth our views in the apex court.”
  
  The state government’s decision has drawn sharp reactions from many quarters. The opposition Congress was quick to point out that it was the BJP which has repeatedly said that well-being of Ganga was a priority but now it was planning to appeal against a move that was meant to ensure the river’s protection.
  
  Leader of Opposition in the assembly Indira Hridayesh, said, “On one hand, the BJP claims to have pumped in crores to clean Ganga and other rivers but on the other the party plans to approach the Supreme court against Ganga’s human status.”
  
  The seers in Haridwar also expressed surprise that of all political parties, it was the BJP that sought change in status of Ganga and Yamuna. Shankaracharya of Jyotish Dwarka Sharda peeth Swami Swaroopananda Saraswati said, “The BJP government vowed to save the Ganga but it is now exposed.”
  
  Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) general secretary   said, “The court order intends to make the government more responsible towards saving the river. The government should have welcomed it.”
  
  Nirwani Akhara seer Ravindra Puri, said, “Instead of wasting time over litigation, the government should focus on saving Ganga and keeping it unpolluted.”
