BHUBANESWAR:   has failed to attract foreign tourists over the years. Only 1% of the foreigners visiting India have come to the state in the last seven years, the tourism minister, Ashok Panda, told the assembly in a written on Friday. The minister also said the tourism sector has contributed only 10% to the state's gross domestic product during this time. 

 Stakeholders in the industry feel lack of infrastructure, non-involvement of community, poor branding of Odisha in the international market and communication gap are responsible for the poor footfall of foreign tourists. Leading tour operator Benjamin Simon said though Odisha has many tourist draws like monuments, beaches, wildlife, festivals and culture, ethnic and tribal communities to food, it has not been branded properly. "Since direct air connectivity to Kuala Lumpur would start shortly, the state government needs to brand the state in south-east Asia to attract tourists," said Simon.
 
 He said lack of international chain of hotel is another key reason behind low foreign tourist footfall. "In a small state like  , you would find a number of international chain hotels and four international airports. In Odisha, we don't have even one. The state government should offer land and other benefits to global players to set up their units in Odisha," he added.
 
 Srimanta Kumar Dash, president of   blamed the lackadaisical attitude of government officials. "Recently, the state government organised a carnival in Puri to promote beach festival. Though we have nearly 50 tourists from Japan in our centre, the administration did not feel it important to involve us. How can you promote tourism with such attitude?" he said.
 
 Most of the people associated with the tourism industry also want a dedicated department for the tourism sector and to ensure active involvement of the community as it could be a source of livelihood for them. Contacted, officials in the tourism department refused to comment on the matter as the assembly session is on. They, however, claim that nearly 10 leading hotel groups in India have evinced interest to set up their units in Odisha. 
 
 The state has 1,759 hotels, including 18 star hotels with 366,386 rooms to accommodate over 73,000 guests. Besides, the   (OTDC) has been operating 20 Pantha Niwas with 515 rooms.
 
