CHANDIGARH: Senior advocate   has been appointed as the Punjab advocate-general on Thursday by the newly-elected   government in Punjab led by Capt   Singh. A Supreme Court lawyer, Nanda took over the charge of the   office on Thursday afternoon, where he held a meeting to chalk out his plans and know status of important cases being faced by the state.

 The AG is the legal head of the state government and enjoys the perks and benefits of a cabinet minister. Nanda has replaced senior advocate Ashok Aggarwal, who had resigned after the change of guard in Punjab.
 
 A close confidant and long time legal adviser of Amarinder, advocate Nanda has also appeared for him in several cases before various courts. Jalandhar-born Nanda (51) is the son of the late Ravi Nanda, a prominent labour lawyer of his time, and school teacher Sudesh Nanda. He was the additional AG in Punjab from 2002-07 during the previous Congress regime. Nanda had also appeared in all crucial and sensitive matters for Punjab, including the reference of the President under Article 317(1) of the Constitution of India in the case of Ravinder Pal Singh Sidhu, chairman, PPSC, constitutional issues and those relating to the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act in the disproportionate assets case filed by revenue and other authorities against Parkash Singh Badal and several other matters.
 
 After demitting the office of the additional AG, he continued to represent Amarinder, ministers and MLAs of the Congress regime, against whom cases were filed by the ruling SAD-BJP combine. He also contested the expulsion of Amarinder from the previous house, securing for him a 5-0 majority judgement before a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court.
 
 Represented Union govt in several cases
 
 He was also appointed standing counsel for the Indian government in the Delhi high court from September 2009 to January 2011, during which he successfully appeared in several important litigations, including the 2G spectrum allotment matter, women Army officers case, Haj committee cases, defence-related tender matters and the Mayapuri radioactive leak case. At present also, he was special counsel for the government of India in the Supreme Court.
 
