PATNA: Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief   would launch his poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh with a rally at Sikandrabad assembly constituency in Bulandshahr district in support of his son-in-law Rahul Yadav in the second week of February.

 UP RJD state president Ashok Singh told TOI on Monday that CM   is expected to communicate his finalised campaign programme to Lalu within a couple of days as joint public meets of SP, Congress and RJD are also in the pipeline. Bihar deputy CM   is also being sought by the SP for the poll campaign. 
 
 “CM Akhilesh Yadav is expected to finalise the campaign programme of Lalu ji within a day or two and communicate it to him. As per tentative plans, Lalu ji is expected to come to UP in the second week of February as he is slated to campaign for his son-in-law Rahul Yadav, who is contesting from Sikandrabad assembly constituency, which would go to polls in the first phase on February 11,” said Singh.
 
 In January 2012, Lalu got his fourth daughter Ragini married to Rahul, son of the then SP MLA from Ghaziabad Jitendra Yadav, who later joined the Congress. RJD has not fielded any candidate in UP elections, but it is supporting the SP-Congress alliance to wage a fierce attack on BJP in battleground UP with demonetisation being one of the major poll issues.
 
 Lalu is seen as having played a pivotal role in strengthening the alliance between SP and Congress. “Lalu ji played a crucial role in ensuring a strong alliance between SP and Congress. He wanted a strong secular alliance against the communal forces,” said Singh.
 
 Singh added that RJD workers from Bihar have already started coming to UP as the first phase of the polls is slated to be held on February 11. Lalu had earlier said that he would hold around 100 rallies in UP for supporting the SP-Congress combine.
 
 Chittaranjan Gagan, RJD spokesperson in Patna, said a big contingent of senior leaders from Bihar, including Raghuvansh Prasad Singh,  , Ram Chandra Purbey and Jagdanand Singh would go to UP and hold public meets ahead of the polls.
 
 “Preparations are going on for the UP elections. Apart from senior leaders, hundreds of workers, especially from bordering districts, such as Gopalganj, Siwan, Bhojpur, Buxar and Kaimur would go to UP over the next couple of weeks,” said Gagan.
 
