THANE: In a   aimed at deterring violence against elderly citizens, the district   recently sentenced a 20-year-old youth to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment for stabbing and robbing a 65-year-old woman of her jewellery.

 Additional sessions Judge R N Bawankar convicted Krishna Chopade for a murderous assault on Sushma Nair when she was alone in her apartment at Shubharamb Society, Manpada, on September 14, 2015. Chopade, who worked as a courier boy, was familiar with the Nair family and took advantage of the fact that his elderly victim would be alone at home at the time after her husband left for work early in the day.
 
 Assistant public prosecutor P Buleshwar Hinge said the accused went to Nair’s home under the pretext of picking up a courier. When the woman informed him that the parcel had already been collected by another courier boy, Chopade asked for water and gained access inside the apartment.
 
 “He was armed with a pair of scissors and used it to stab her and then fled with her jewellery valued at over Rs 3.97 lakh,” Hinge said. Neighbours rushed the bleeding victim to a private hospital and the shocked senior citizen named the courier boy in her statement. The investigating officer, assistant police inspector Shivaji Chavan recovered the stolen jewellery and nabbed Chopade, a resident of Durganagar area in Manpada.
 
 The probe revealed Chopade was a habitual offender and was found guilty of misappropriating Rs 24,000 from the private company he worked for earlier.
 
 After a long trial and listening to arguments from both sides, the court found Chopade guilty and said there was irrefutable evidence to show the accused was well-acquainted not only with the financial status of Sushma, but also her daily routine because he often picked up couriers from her. The statement of the injured woman, naming him, was the clinching evidence in the case.
 
 The judge, while sentencing him to seven years’ RI, pointed out that the punishment does not serve the purpose of the trial, but gives a message to society at large.
 
 
