Opportunities have opened up and parents and their wards no longer limit their gaze to medicine and engineering. The   had tried to meet the aspirations of the new generation by unveiling an array of vocational subjects. The idea was to help students have a broader vision about life skills and not just acquire bookish knowledge. Among the interesting new subjects made available to students include merchant navy, mass communication/journalism, animation, ethical hacking, petrochemical engineering and fashion designing to name just a few.

 Unfortunately, how many are even aware that such options exist? The answer sadly is, not many. The problem is, even in our big cities, schools do not offer such offbeat subjects either because they don’t have trained teachers or because of the perception that there wouldn’t be enough takers for such subjects.
 Indu Panicker, principal of a   in Kochi, says that "While subjects like printing, e-publishing, home science and Foundations in Information Technology (FIT) are made available for Class 9 and 10 by the CBSE, we offer options like commercial arts and entrepreneurship for Class 11 and 12 in our school.”
 
 However, each school decides what they can offer, as it requires qualified staff and takers for it.”
 She points out that physical education and home science have been made the sixth subject, as in the worst case scenario, if children do not do well in one of the four subjects, the additional subject might help lift their academic result. 
 
 Such courses bring out the best in the students, she says. “Learning the subject of entrepreneurship has not been limited to only commerce students in our school, but is also open for students from the science stream. Same is the case for commercial arts, which had talented students taking it up.” 
 Indu says entrepreneurship is one subject that seems to have created a buzz. “Around 40 students are pursuing entrepreneurship, which is an unusually big number for an offbeat course. This would help them follow the careers they really want to pursue, other than the one we call mainstream. 
 A matter of concern is that for a class of three students, a period can be allotted to the teacher. However, what will she or he do the rest of the day, she asks. In fact, it was reported that around 37 vocational courses and 7 electives were shelved by the CBSE, because of lack of response from the student community.
 
 Another principal of a prominent school in Kochi says that they have not implemented any of the above mentioned ones. “Given that there are practical difficulties, there has not been much demand among students, we have not kick-started such courses. I guess students are not sure how far these will help them land jobs when compared with traditional subjects.” She says the only subject that they have got good response for is FIT. However, she wants to introduce book keeping and entrepreneurship, among a few others, which she has found interesting, if there is enough demand. 
 Sheeba Kiron, a mother of a Class 12 student and software engineer, says her son is learning Informatics Practices as an additional subject. “These optionals are really insightful and will help students chart a new path.”
 
 
 
