CHENNAI: The achievement of  's power utility, providing connections in a single day, seems to have become a big hit, with may discoms keen on replicating the scheme in their states. 

 The 16,000 connections, including domestic, provided by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Company Ltd ( ) so far figured prominently at the recent conference of chairmen of discoms in New Delhi.
 
 Under the scheme, consumers seeking a connection can apply and pay the required charges online and receive the new connection within 24 hours. Residents of Chennai region, which includes parts of   and   districts, have benefite the most, receiving 8,036 connections. 
 
 Only those consumers who are not part of any special or multi-storey buildings falling under the 'mere service connection category' are allowed to apply under the scheme. "The applicants of the LT domestic and commercial service connections can apply either through Tangedco's web portal (www.tangedco.gov.in) or in person at the section office concerned. In online mode, the applicant has to fill all the details in the application and upload the scanned copies of the supporting documents," a senior official told TOI. 
 
 The applicants have to ensure that valid documents being uploaded are in complete shape before making online payments. They can pay the charges at the time of registering the application either online or in person at the office concerned. 
 
 "We briefed the chairmen [of various discoms] about the scheme and immediately the Centre wanted states to implement it depending on their resources and availabilty of power," said the official. 
 
 At the meeting held on Saturday last in New Delhi, the financial turnaround that Tangedco had acheieved came up for discussion, with almost all the participating delegates expressing awe at the acheievement. The steps the discom had put in place to make itself financially viable even before it joined the Ujwal Discom Rejuvenation   (Uday) scheme of the central government came in for praise. 
 
 "A new domestic connection before the introduction of the scheme used to take 30 days and 60 days for new low tension industrial connection as it involved extension of the transformers or setting up new ones. 
 
 But the delay has now been avoided with the introduction of new schemes in both the sectors," said the official.
 
 All chief engineers of Tangedco have been asked to take necessary action to ensure that meters and other service connection material are available in the stores for effecting service connections without any delay. 
 
 "Once an application for a new LT connection is received, the officials are expected to monitor the progress in providing the connection. Superintending engineers will be taken to task if there is any delay in providing the connection," he said.
 
