IMPHAL: As the election season reaches its peak in the landlocked state of Manipur, an interesting phenomenon comes to the fore. 

 "In the rest of India, politicians pay people to attend their political rallies. In Manipur, it's just the opposite," Union human resource development minister   on Monday said, praising Manipur's unique tradition of 'Athenpot'. People bring fruits, vegetables, rice and sweetmeats to pledge support to and bless their candidate.
 
 Javadekar was addressing a BJP election rally in the Nambol constituency, where the saffron party is fielding  , a former Union minister.
 
 "The people of Manipur are very good, and your culture is so rich. In all the election meetings I have attended, I have seen this system of Athenpot. People came to the election meeting to give blessings to the candidate. This system is only found in Manipur, which I really cherish," said Javadekar.
 
 The tradition goes back a long way. Professor of economics at the  , Amar Yumnam, explains that Athenpot is practised in every social function held by Manipuris. People of a locality bring a variety of goods for offering prayers for and blessing the family which hosts the social function. "In olden days, people of a locality would share the burden of the one who organized the social function. Now, it is being extended to the election," he said. Yumnam added that it is a community tradition and a practice of social capital.
 
 N  , associate professor at the   of the Manipur University, said this is a special system where people "contribute their might" to an individual who is hosting a social function. "This way, the localities did not allow the individual to bear all the burden. The basic idea behind the system is the collective effort of a kinship network of a locality. In Manipur, localities are clan-based," she said. This social system is slowly being extended to the election, where a locality symbolically pledges its support to a candidate. "It is an attempt to establish a fictitious kinship system," she added.
 
