LUCKNOW: When he entered   after a break of three years after his class XII, his only wish was to complete graduation without any hurdle. Medal winner for his  ,   lost his parents before he turned 18. The responsibility of his 11-year-old brother motivated him to work hard round the clock and his studies had to take backseat after school. 

 “When I entered LU for admission, all students were excited about picking their favourite stream but my only wish was to get admission somehow and the cheapest course was BA. I realised I would be able to afford it and I applied,” said 25-year-old Gaurav. 
 
 “I may not be able to study my favourite subjects but that day I promised myself that my younger brother Vaibhav would not compromise with his dreams,” said the gutsy older brother. 
 
 Having studied commerce in class XII, Gaurav managed to get an accounts job in a private store after completing school in 2009. However, it was not enough to pay for his brother’s school fee and making both ends meet. Gaurav then began giving tuitions to children. 
 
 “I lost my mother in 2005 when I was in class X, my father in 2007 and my grandmother in 2009. Due to the causalities, I had to drop studies,” said Anand. 
 
 In post-graduation, Gaurav opted for linguistics as its fee was the lowest. 
 
 “I may not be able to study commerce but I am studying science. Linguistics is the study of language,” he added. 
 
 When the medals for PG courses were announced, Gaurav says he was happy and sad at the same time.
 
 “Like other students, I could not rush back home to tell my parents that I had won a gold medal for being the highest scorer in my department,” said Gaurav.
 
 He is quick to add though that his professors at LU are not just his ‘gurus’ but also supportive to him as parents.
 
 “The way Prof   has supported me has paved my path to success. She motivates me to become a professor, I am eagerly waiting for the PhD interview results so that I can enter the world of academia,” he said.
 
 
