Singles, pet owners, foreigners – it can be hard for anyone who’s not a ‘respectable’ person with a family to find accommodation in housing socieities in Noida, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad, some of the fastest growing areas in NCR, as reports have documented. But it’s especially difficult for single professionals to find homes on rent in Noida’s conservative societies, they tell us. And that’s hardly a secret, with some societies even having put up ‘bachelors not allowed’ boards on their gates, one of them next to a ‘dogs not allowed’ board! Singles say that landlords don’t want to rent apartments to them because of the ‘image’ that singles have as irresponsible young people who party all the time. Brokers say that landlords complain that keeping singles as tenants is a headache as they “drink, smoke and party all night”. However, societies tell us that despite the boards on the gates, the decision of whom to rent out – or not rent out – apartments to is the decision of individual flat owners.

 
 
 Reema*, a media professional who stays in Krishna Apara Society, Sector 61, with two more girls, says, “When I was searching for a flat with my friends in Noida, I found that people were reluctant to rent us apartments. I went to Prateek Wisteria, but flat owners there refused outright to rent their apartments to us, saying tension nahi chahiye bachelors ko rakh ke. We were shocked to hear this. People here have this perception that single boys and girls will bring their partners to the apartment, and they are not comfortable with this. Yeh bahut basic soch hai jiska humne saamna kiya.” 
 Reema* adds, “Finally, I managed to get a place in Krishna Apara, but here also, I faced the same stereotype. People here often pass comments like ‘yeh PG culture bahut kharab hai. Hona hi nahi chahiye society mein.’ It is frustrating at times. Noida itna posh hone ki bawajood logon ki perception nahi change hoti. They would always prefer to rent out homes to families. Single guys and girls come last on their list.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Deepika Choudhary*, who has rented an apartment in a society in Sector 41, says, “I went to 3C Lotus to look for a flat, but people there were not willing to have bachelors as tenants. Then I went to Lotus Panache, but there I saw this board saying ‘bachelors not allowed’ at the front gate of the society. I didn’t even bother to enter, I returned from the gate. I think landlords don’t want to rent their flats to bachelors because they think we are irresponsible. At my current apartment also, every time I go out with a guy, my landlady has a problem. If my male friends visit me, she will say ‘beta aise achha nahin lagta, don’t invite guys to the apartment’.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Archana*, a single working woman living in  , Sector 76, says that she had to register her flatmate as her cousin as no one was ready to rent out the apartment to two single girls. She explains, “It took a month for my roommate and me to find a place. When we were close to finalizing a deal, the landlady refused because she found out we were singles. When we started looking for other places, our broker named a few societies that he would not show us houses in because bachelors were not allowed in those societies. Since we were looking in the sectors closer to  , he said places like Prateek Wisteria, JM Aroma, JM Orchid etc did not allow bachelors. We finally got a place in   Silicon City, but here too, we were registered as two sisters sharing the apartment, not two bachelors! Our landlord knows the situation, but he wanted to rent out the place immediately and we wanted to shift, so went ahead with the deal. We shifted because there are more amenities here, but eventually we realised that the services are first extended to families living in the society, then to families living on rent and then to bachelors.”
 
 
 
 Shefali Sharma, who shares a flat with two other girls in Sector 22, says, “Landlords always have a problem with friends coming over to the apartment. Half the time, I have been denied accommodation because I told landlords that I would invite friends over sometimes. Landlords at colonies like   and Sector 12 refused to rent me their flats when I told them that my friends would occasionally come over. Landlords are quite suspicious – they presume that single girls or guys who stay on rent are bound to be of ‘loose character’. Such a perception comes as a big shock to us.” 
 
  
  Singles outside Gulshan Vivante society in Noida (photo Lokesh Kashyap (BCCL))
 
 
 
 Somnath Datta, a resident of Sector 22, who is a corporate professional, says, “When I went to Jalvayu Vihar and Sector 35, the guards at the door told me that people here don’t rent flats to bachelors. I still tried talking to the landlords, but they all refused. They told me that they don’t trust bachelors because of ‘late night outings’, bringing female friends home late at night and creating a mess. Finally, I got a house, but the landlord here has instructed me not to come late and has set a deadline of 10pm. He has also asked me not to bring any girls to the apartment. Also, I think that it is relatively easier for single girls to get flats in Noida as people think that they can be trusted, but with boys, they have the mindset that we will create a ruckus.”
 
 
 
  Even though boards, restricting bachelors from renting apartments have been put up, societies and RWA (Residential Welfare Association) maintain that the decision lies entirely with the individual landlords and that they don’t interfere in the matter of landlords and tenants until the situation gets serious. Brijesh Chauhan, general secretary, Sector 12 RWA, Noida, says, “Aisa koi rule nahi hai humare yahan ki bachelors allowed na ho. RWA (Residential Welfare Association) does not interfere much with the system of tenants and landlords. If something big or unique happens or we find something fishy, then obviously, the landlords can approach us and we will look into it.”
  Shiv Kumar Jha, a security officer from Prateek Wisteria society, says, “The owner only decides whether bachelors will be allowed in our societies or not. Humare yahan bachelors nahi aa skate aisa koi board nahi laga hua hai. Baaki jo rent pe lagaane wale hain, wahi decide karte hain ki bachelors ko ghar dena hai ya nahi.”
 
 
 
 Abhishek Anand, a broker in Noida says, “Single guys and girls always create a nuisance and that’s why most owners refuse to give them accommodation. They drink, invite their girlfriends and boyfriends and play loud music. So most of the landlords don’t prefer keeping them. I am not saying all of them are like that but landlords just don’t want to take a chance with singles.”
  Praveen Prakash, another broker, says, “While renting an apartment bachelors often promise that they won’t party but then they play loud music and party almost regularly. Some of them even introduce their partners as siblings so that they can live together. Agar unhe live-in mein rehna hai toh clearly batao taaki dono parties ko problem na ho. In high rise societies like Amrapali and Mahagun, where the landlord doesn’t stay in the flat, they bring their boyfriends and girlfriends later and they stay with them. Landlords ko kya pata kaun reh raha hai kaun nahi reh raha. Also, at times, people say that only two people will live in the apartment but then four or five people start living in the flat.”
 
  
  
 
 
  Gaurav Kumar, owner of a flat in Sector 45, says, “I rented my apartment to two single girls but I asked them to leave after some months as they would party all night and keep the place dirty. I have seen wine bottles, cigarette butts in their rooms. They also invited their partners often to the place. I warned them twice but when they didn't pay heed to my warnings, I asked them to leave. ”
 
 
 
 Sq Ldr. D P Goyal, chairman, Jalvayu Vihar, Sector 21-25, says, “Police verification is a must in our colony for tenants. Also, a security deposit also has to be made to the landlord. Though there is no restriction on the entry and living of bachelors here but we do have certain dos and don’ts that they have to follow. We don’t want loud music and parties regularly. Male friends are allowed but they shouldn’t stay for the night.”
 MP Singh, secretary, sector 35, RWA, Noida, says, “Bachelors are not prohibited in our sector. It is just that they need to submit an ID proof and bio-data. The landlords decide whether they have to keep those tenants. They have to get their police verification done so that later there is no issue.”
 
 (Names changed on request)
 
