NEW DELHI:   and   are at loggerheads over development work in slums ahead of the municipal polls. Days after Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari raised the concerns of people living in Inderpuri Gas Godown  , AAP has slammed the opposition for making it a political issue.

 BJP claims that Tiwari’s plan for night stay at slums in all parliamentary constituencies has got AAP nervous. It attacked chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for allegedly betraying the trust of people. 
 
 “People are forced to go to dirty toilets. The living conditions in the slum is pathetic. AAP has failed to fulfil its promises,” said Tiwari, who wrote to the CM highlighting these problems.
 
 AAP MLA Akhileshpati Tripathi accused BJP of playing   over slums, saying that if it was really so concerned about JJ colonies, the party should prevail on the Centre to clear Delhi government’s proposals that would really help people living in such areas.
 
 “Manoj Tiwari said that his party will do charity in slums. Why? Where are the legally provided funds, which can be used in these areas? BJP member Meenakshi Lekhi is an MP from this area. How much money has she ever sanctioned for improvement of slums? On record, not a single rupee has been spent,” Tripathi said.
 
 BJP also claimed that people were now disenchanted with the Kejriwal government as it had failed to fulfil promises. “He said water will be free. But these people don’t get water supply. Community toilets don’t have water. What kind of governance is this? I want Kejriwal to come with me and see the problems,” said Tiwari, who will visit Bhim camp in Nangloi on Tuesday night.
 
 AAP hit back, alleging that the NDA-led central government was sitting on the file related to development work in slums and unauthorised colonies. “If BJP is really interested in helping in the development of Delhi, then it should first clear all files,” said Tripathi, the MLA from Model Town.
 
 Refuting AAP’s allegations, Tiwari challenged the party to list at least 10 projects, which were yet to be cleared by the Centre.
 
