NEW DELHI: Union Minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday again scolded international human rights groups asking them to not spread "misinformation about India" with relation to the issue of   in the country.

 "(I) request international human rights' bodies to not spread misinformation about India and the Indian government, protecting the nation is our duty," said the minister of state for home.
 
 The   contends that the Rohingya are a "security threat" and "a drain on the country's resources". In an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Monday, the Centre said it has intelligence inputs about links of some Rohingya Muslims with Pakistan's ISI as well as the Islamic State. It added that militant elements among the Rohingya are active in Delhi, Hyderabad, Mewar and Jammu.
 
 "Our way forward will be based on nation's interest... It is a sensitive matter. Whatever the government of India will do, will be in the nation's interest," added Rijiju.
 
 Last month, Rijiju slammed these groups for criticising the Centre's move to deport the refugees, calling India "the most humane nation" in the world. He asked the rights groups not to "demonise" India as a country hostile to refugees and said New Delhi is not going to "throw" the Rohingya into the "ocean" or "shoot" them but will follow due process of law before their identification and deportation. 
 
 Still, it isn't just international rights bodies though who oppose the move to deport the Rohingya refugees who've fled extreme violence against them in  . India's   is also against the government's plans. The NHRC, in fact, plans to plead in the Supreme Court against Rohingya deportation.
 
 The NHRC said it will oppose the deportation on "humanitarian grounds' and will cite the fact that they fear the refuges will be persecuted if they are sent back.
 
 "We will intervene in the matter on human grounds. We are a human rights body and if these persons (Rohingya) are deported back to their country, we see it as a violation of human rights," said NHRC chairperson and former CJI Justice H L Dattu to TOI two days ago. 
 
 The NHRC is also likely to cite various orders of the SC in which it has held that fundamental right to life and liberty enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution applies to all, irrespective of whether they are Indian citizens or not, said sources. While issuing a notice to the home ministry last month criticising its decision to deport Rohingya, NHRC said, "India has been home to refugees for centuries. It has continued to receive a large number of refugees from different countries".
 
 
 
 
