NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party ( ) legislator   on Monday submitted documents to the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) to back his allegations that Delhi chief minister Arvind   had delayed the probe into a 
  .

 A day after he said he had witnessed Kejriwal take Rs 2 crore from health minister Satyendra Jain in another case, Mishra alleged that the investigation into the tanker scam that dated back to  's tenure as chief minister was repeatedly delayed and influenced by Kejriwal and "his two men".
 
 Mishra said he had shared all the evidence related to the tanker scam with the ACB. "I told the officials how chief minister   deliberately delayed the report and how public money was misused."
 
 "Also, I told them how Kejriwal along with his two men affected the tanker scam probe. The government also tried to shield Sheila Dikshit time and again. ACB will call me again for a detailed investigation," he told reporters after the meeting.
 
 Mishra, who was sacked as minister on Saturday, also demanded a lie detector on his allegations that he was an eyewitness to the Rs 2 crore exchanging hands between Kejriwal and Jain. He said that a lie detector test be conducted on all three.
 
 Mishra has claimed Jain had told him in a private conversation that he had "settled" a Rs 50 crore 
  of the chief minister.
 
 Mishra further said that he has 
  (CBI) in connection with the Rs 2 crore allegations.
 
 
 
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday alleged that a big conspiracy was being hatched against it by the BJP through sacked Delhi minister Kapil Mishra.
 
 The AAP said that Mishra was making "baseless" allegations against chief minister Arvind Kejriwal "out of desperation" 
  .
 
 The AAP remarks came after Mishra submitted documents to the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) to back his allegations that Kejriwal had delayed the probe into a Rs 400 crore tanker scam.
 
 Hitting out at the AAP legislator over his allegations of corruption against Kejriwal, AAP leader Sanjay Singh said Mishra had himself written to a letter to the ACB in September last year, saying that under pressure, the anti-graft body was trying to implicate the chief minister in the  .
 
 "A game of exploitation is being played against the AAP. The BJP is hatching a conspiracy against the AAP through Mishra," Singh told reporters here.
 
 Singh claimed that Mishra was repeating what the BJP had been trying to allege in connection with the water tanker scam.
 
 "Mishra's allegations are laughable. I want to ask him if Kejriwal had called him up before accepting the 'bribe'," he said referring to the sacked minister's claims that PWD Minister Satyendar Jain had allegedly handed over of Rs 2 crore to the AAP supremo.
 
 At the press conference, the AAP showed a letter written by Mishra to the ACB in 2016 saying the agency was trying to target Kejriwal in the alleged water tanker scam even when his name was not mentioned anywhere in the evidence.
 
 Singh accused Mishra speaking the BJP's language, adding that "AAP can never compromise with corruption. And now they are accusing us".
 
 "The BJP and the Congress are treating Mishra as Harishchandra...He is same the person who had called Modi an 'ISI agent'," Singh said. 
 
 
 
 
 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari on Monday asked chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to either resign or go to jail after a sacked minister hurled corruption charges at him.
 
 Tiwari referred to the Aam Aadmi Party leader's May 10, 2013 tweet: "Should people just resign for corruption or should they be sent to jail for corruption?"
 
 The BJP leader asked Kejriwal to decide his fate. "Either (go to) jail or resign. Please decide Arvind Kejriwalji as being (the) CM of Delhi you can decide for people of Delhi. Only you said it."
 
 
 
 The Congress on Monday wrote to Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to demand the prosecution of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his ministers on the basis of the Shunglu committee report.
 
 "We demand the sanction of prosecution of Kejriwal and his ministers under the Prevention of Corruption Act, based on the Shunglu committee report," Delhi Congress chief   said at a press conference today.
 
