GURUGRAM: The Gwalpahari   could soon be the subject of a   even as a court move seems increasingly likely to settle the   question of prime plots that collectively amount to 464 acres and have a market value of Rs 3,000 crore.

 According to sources in Chandigarh, the Centre has asked the   government to initiate a vigilance probe into the nearly four-decade-long ownership tussle over the   land, which recently flared up after   issued eviction notices to all 322 private entities in possession of the land. 
 
 “The Centre has started looking into this matter and, in all probability, will ask the Khattar government to order a vigilance inquiry,” said a senior official based in Chandigarh, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The official added that earlier, a senior Niti Aayog officer had urged the Khattar government to look into concerns raised by private entities who say they are the original owners of the land.
 
 The MCG, in the meantime, is planning to approach the civil court with a plea that the title and ownership of the 464 acres of disputed land be granted to it. Till recently, though, the MCG was not keen on approaching the court.
 
 “Senior bureaucrats in Chandigarh have advised the MCG commissioner to approach the civil court to settle the dispute regarding the ownership of land, keeping in view the fact that a majority of the 322 entities have already managed to obtain a stay from the high court against the eviction notice served to them by MCG,” the official said.
 
 The private parties, the official added, were likely to cite former financial commissioner (revenue) YS Malik’s 2014 observations when he probed the mutation of the Gwalpahari land in favour of MCG. Malik observed that “mutation records appear to have been manipulated, fabricated, forged and ante-dated”, and the “entire process stinks of connivance and conspiracy, perhaps up to the levels who are expected to be the guardians and watchdogs of the entire process”.
 
 “The MCG has, therefore, changed its mind and is likely to approach the civil court soon,” the official said.
 
 A few days ago, when asked about his government’s stand on the Gwalpahari issue, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said the issue could be resolved only with the help of legal experts and if need be, the matter would be referred to the Supreme Court.
 
 Located in the Aravali foothills, the disputed land shares its borders with Delhi and Faridabad and is in possession of several developers, realtors and VIPs, including retired judges and former Union ministers, who own farmhouses there. According to sources, this is the primary reason why the Centre is interested.
 
 The 464 acres, in official records, are referred to as Mutation No. 610. On July 2, 2012, a new mutation was done to recognise the MCG’s ownership over a significant portion of the land. This new mutation was referred to as 3110. Following Malik’s order, on December 1, 2015, mutation 3110 was cancelled and the land given back to private entities. Despite this, on December 18, 2015, mutation 3249 was once again entered in the name of MCG. 
 
 
