BENGALURU: A 32-year-old man who specialized in stealing   from   in the tech belt of   has been arrested. At least 151 laptops, 10 tablets and five cameras have been recovered from him.

 Police on Thursday announced the arrest of  , who came from   to study hotel management in 2009 and married a Honnavar girl training to become an air hostess.
 
 Sumeer and his wife Rajeshwari stayed in Ittamadu Layout, Banashankari III Stage, and opened a shop, SR Computers, in Hosakerehalli. While S stood for Sharma, R was for Rajeshwari, said police. With this ar rest, cops have cracked 101 theft cases.
 
 Accor ding to po lice, Su meer ra rely broke into any house.He'd inste ad use his English and Hindi language skills to gain access to apartments and PG accommodations in Madiwala, Mico Layout, Koramangala, HSR Layout and Adugodi, from where he would steal the gadgets.
 
 Following completion of his hotel management course, Sumeer did some jobs, but none clicked. He told police he learnt the basics of stealing from one Arun Pattak of Rajasthan in 2015, after which he took to gadget theft fulltime.
 
 “He used his language skills to gain entry into apartments and paying guest accommodations. Most of the stuff he stole were from houses where the doors would be open or where the gadgets would be easily reachable,“ a senior police officer said. All the laptops he stole were refurbished at his own store and sold. “His wife maintained a diary of the stolen and sold items. The laptops that couldn't be sold in Bengaluru were packed off to Tamil Nadu.We will take his wife into custody soon,“ the officer added.
 
 A special team was formed after cops saw a pattern in the robberies taking place in southeast Bengaluru. Though they managed to arrest Su meer and crack 101 theft cases, the tougher task was to track down the stolen properties.
 
 “We've seen large gangs stealing more than 100 computers, but one person stealing so many pieces is rare. From Bengaluru's SP Road to Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore, our teams visited many places to recover the stolen items,“ the officer said.
 
