MUMBAI: For the second time in three months, a part of South Mumbai’s   flyover has given way. Traffic on the bridge was briefly stopped on Monday morning after the rubber seal on an expansion joint on the flyover fell off. It was restored following a visual inspection by   ( ) officials. 

 Civic officials said the rubber seal fell off on Sunday night itself and a local resident who noticed it called up the police control room to inform them about it. As the bridge is no longer under the guarantee period, the contractor is not responsible for replacing the seal. “The southern arm of the flyover had to be shut down briefly for vehicle movement. We need to replace the seal between the expansion joints. We have already spoken to the MMRDA and will shortly decide on which agency will carry out the repairs,” said chief engineer S O Korri. 
 
 This is not the first time the rubber seal has fallen off. In November 2016, the rubber seal on another expansion joint had fallen off and the north-bound arm of the flyover had to be shut. A PIL was filed in the Bombay High Court In December 2016, seeking it to direct the BMC to carry out repairs on the flyover only after receiving a structural audit report. The HC stayed repairs on the 2.48km-long flyover pending the report. The BMC had then assured the court it would submit the report on January 31, 2017. However, Korri told TOI on Monday, “The structural audit is still under progress, it won’t be completed so soon.” 
 
 Expansion joints allow expansion and contraction of the stretch to which it is fixed without causing any vibration to the structure. They are also known to control the noise caused by movement of vehicles. 
 
 The Lalbaug flyover was inaugurated In June 2011, between   in Parel and   in Byculla, by the then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan. It replaced the old Lalbaug bridge, which was demolished and rebuilt in two years.
 
 Activist Rishi Agarwal said repeated problems on the new flyover are just a commentary on the state of affairs in the city. “We have British-era bridges over rail tracks which survive till today, be they at Elphinston or Currey Road, while this one opened in 2011 is giving way. I think a technical committee should be appointed to find out if we will see more such problems and are better off dismantling it. What if a major portion collapses during peak hour?,” questioned Agarwal. 
 
 Milind Panchal, general secretary of the road and infrastructure cell of the   (MNS)said, “The contractor who constructed the carriageway should be pulled up for it having given way in less than a decade.” 
 
 
