PUNE: A duo adopted a novel idea to rob people in these times of cash crunch.

 The two suspects, including a criminal on police records, would stop motorcyclists on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass accusing them of knocking down a person on the bypass. The duo would then forcefully take them to a petrol pump to swipe the latter's debit card for money to help the `accident victim' and would take cash from the motorist's wallet as well before fleeing.
 
 The Bharati Vidyapeeth police arrested the duo, Hasan Shaikh (25) of Narhe and Vishal Sakhare (24) of Lohegaon, on Friday . The police suspect their involvement in three-four similar cases of robberies.
 
 “An employee from the petrol pump was involved in the crime. We will arrest him after our probe,“ said  , senior inspector of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police.
 
 On Thursday around 8.30pm, 30-year-old Madhav  , a manager at a Talegaon-based private company , was driving to his home at Undri via Katraj-Dehu Ro ad bypass. As he neared a petrol pump near Narhe, two men riding on a motorcycle stopped him.
 
 “The duo told Ramchandran that his car had knocked down a youth on the bypass a while ago. They said the youth had sustained severe injuries and was rushed to the hospital. However, a mob had gathered at the spot,“ sub-inspector   said.
 
 The duo also told Ramchandran that the mob was very angry and wanted him to bear the expense for the youth's treatment.
 
 “Ramchandran was rattled after hearing the incident.They told him that they would manage the mob and asked him to give them the money ,“ Kadam said.
 
 Ramchandran had Rs 1,800 in his wallet. The duo forcibly took the amount from him. They then asked him to accompany them to a petrol pump to swipe his debit card for more money . “The duo took him to a worker at the petrol pump, who swiped his card for Rs 10,000. The duo then took the cash from the worker and told Ramchandran to flee before the mob arrived,“ Kadam said.
 
 According to Gaikwad, the petrol pump employee would get a `cut' for swiping the victim's card.
 
 A terrified Ramchandran immediately went home and informed his father about the incident. The next day , when he discussed the incident with his senior colleagues, they advised him to lodge a complaint, Kadam said.
 
 Nabbing the duo
 
 The Bharati Vidyapeeth police swung into action after receiving the complaint. Subinspector Samadhan Kadam got a tip-off that the suspects involved in road robberies would come to Katraj. “We laid a trap near a furniture shop.However, seeing the policemen, the duo fled, but were nabbed after a hot chase,“ Kadam said.
 
 During interrogation the duo admitted their involvement in robbing Ramchandran on January 5. “They also admitted to have committed three to four robberies on the bypass in the past few months,“ Kadam said. “Shaikh has cases of robberies registered against him with   and other police stations,“ he added.
 
 Kadam said so far only one person has lodged a complaint and other victims can contact Bharati Vidyapeeth police on 020-24365100.
 
