NAGPUR: Setting Ahmednagar as a benchmark for Yavatmal, CD Mayee, former chairman of   (ASRB) on Friday said that the   in Yavatmal cannot improve without making animal farming a secondary source of income.

 Mayee was speaking at a national symposium on ‘Challenges in animal health for higher productivity and income to farmers’, organized by the department of veterinary microbiology,   (NVC) and Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University. Mafsu vice-chancellor AK Mishra, Indian Association of Veterinary Microbiologists, Immunologists and Specialists in Infectious Diseases (IAVM) president Dr MP Yadav, IAVMI patron PK Uppal, NVC dean Dr   and organizing secretary Dr VC Ingle were present. 
 
 Mayee, who has an agricultural background, said for improving their income, farmers cannot be solely dependent on crop cultivation. By doing a classic comparison between Ahmednagar and Yavatmal which is considered as the suicide capital, he said, “Both the places have climatic similarity. Like Yavatmal, more than 50% of Ahmednagar get low rainfall. Despite that, total income of farmers in Ahmednagar is much bigger than Yavatmal.”
 
 He said, “Yavatmal farmers’ dependency on cotton and soyabean is 89%. Hence, when the crop fails, farmers develop suicidal tendency. On the other hand, Ahmednagar has a larger dependency on animal husbandry and even though a lot of them might not have the land to generate fodder, they will somehow manage it.”
 
 Dr Yadav pointed out lack of support by the state government in funding Foot and   (FMD-CP). He said, “Earlier, the Central government had been providing 100% funds to the programme. But since the change in policy last year, the state is to contribute 40% of funds while the rest will be from the Central government.”
 
 He said, “In the past also, there was a time the state had to contribute 40%, but due to their inefficiency in providing timely funds, 60% funds given by the Centre could not be touched which used to create hurdle for the programme. Hence, there was a change in policy after which the Centre started giving 100% funds to continue vaccination programme since it was a successful. Now, with another change in policy, we will again have to be dependent on the state for 40%. Now there a big question on how the programme will run.”
 
 He also pointed out lack of veterinary doctors in India by putting up statistics. There is only one veterinary doctor for 13,000 animals. As per norms, there should be one doctor for 5,000 animals. Ideally, one vet is required for 3,000 animals, he said.
 
