Nagpur/Bhandara: The midterm poll for   in 1998 was certainly not an easy win for   bigwig and three-time winner  . The rival was businessman Narayandas Saraf, with no track record in general elections. He had just joined the   after a long innings in  , decided to take on Patel, and lost by a small margin of 18,000 votes.

 Saraf, who forced Patel to pull up his socks and campaign harder, passed away on Monday. He was 78.
 
 A prominent industrialist from Vidarbha, Saraf was non-executive chairman of the steel division of FACOR Group — a conglomerate started by his father late Durgaprasad Saraf. In the political circles of his hometown Tumsar, in Bhandara district, however, he would be also remembered for the dramatic election of 1998.
 
 By that time, he had shifted to Delhi and was handling his business at Alwar, Rajasthan, from the capital. Saraf came back to Bhandara, especially for the elections and surprised poll pundits by losing by a small margin, remember his associates. He had BJP stalwarts like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and LK Advani canvassing for him in Bhandara.
 
 This was his first and last Lok Sabha election, though Saraf had earlier headed the Tumsar Municipal Council during his Congress days. After the defeat, he called it a day. There were re-elections the next year and Patel lost Bhandara to a BJP candidate.
 
 “By that time, Narayandasji had gone back to Delhi to focus on his business. He could have always asked for a ticket again, but preferred not to. Perhaps he was too simple to be successful in politics,” said a relative. “It was sheer hard luck as finally the seat went to the BJP. Later, Saraf returned to the Congress, though,” added an old associate. 
 
 Saraf was born in Tumsar, nearly 100km from Nagpur, on September 17, 1938. The Facor group founded by his father also has its headquarters in the town. Remembered as an amiable person by the business fraternity, he was one of the solid pillars of the group, say his associates. 
 
 Entrusted with the company’s management and handling government connections, Saraf had friends across political parties and family connections with some of the country’s most illustrious business families.
 
 The FACOR group started its journey with a ferro manganese plant at Shreeramnagar, Andhra Pradesh, and later diversified into ferro alloys. Over the years, it set up a chrome ore mining complex at Bhadrak in Orissa, followed by the first charge chrome plant in 1981. FACOR also diversified into alloys and steel production in Nagpur. FACOR exports products to several countries including China, Germany, Korea, Japan, Italy, the Netherlands, Taiwan, Turkey and the USA. Apart from being a businessman, Saraf was known for his jovial nature and charitable disposition.
 
 He lost his wife Urmila Saraf eight months ago, and had been in Nagpur a week before his death to condole a relative who passed away. “Sahab ko na kehne ki adat nahin thi” (he never turned down anyone), said one of the company’s employees.
 
 
