PUNE: Even as officials from the state government are asserting that the merger of 34 villages in the civic limits will begin next week, the state urban development department is not too keen about this unification.

 The department wants the authorities to look for alternatives like developing census towns in the Pune Metropolitan Region and allowing the PMRDA to develop these villages.
 
 This comes even as the   (BJP) leaders from Pune and the state are in two minds about the merger.   has already expressed his reservations about the merger and its financial implications on the   (PMC).
 
 On the other hand, MP Anil Shirole said the party’s decision will be based on the ‘sentiments’ of the people. “The party will take a united stand on the issue. There is no conflict and we will go by the state government’s decision. The chief minister has already discussed the issue with all the leaders concerned,” he added.
 
 Urban planners too are not keen on this unification. “Decentralization is the key in planned development. For this to happen, the state government must first develop villages and towns and improve their connectivity to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The PMC is already finding it difficult to meet the requirements of its present population and the merger will only lead to more chaos,” urban planner Aneeta Gokhale- Benninger said. 
 
 Interestingly, the Centre had asked the state to opt for decentralization policy to manage rapid urbanization. The Union urban development department had told the state to convert 19 census towns in the region into statutory urban local bodies.
 
 One of the senior state officials said the 34 villages proposed to merge in PMC limits fall under the PMRDA, which has to prepare a compensative Development Plan for this area. “This merger experiment has not worked anywhere in the country and has left civic bodies reeling under financial burden. The best way here is to develop these villages with the help of PMRDA and state funds and connect them to Pune by good public transport,” he said. 
 
