JODHPUR: It has been years since some much-hyped products claimed to have been developed or in pipeline at the   are being awaited by the forces and even the public in general, but the fate of the same seems to be hanging in balance now. 

  One such project is that of the Biological Bandages and Chitin-nanosilver Antimicrobial Wound Dressing for quick healing of burn injuries and wounds. Interestingly similar products are available over the counter across India and rest of the world. The lab has also been working upon Processed Bone Allograft for the forces. Just like other Collagen or Bio Dressings in the market and medical institutes, Chitin membranes containing silver nanoparticles are used for antimicrobial wound dressing. The Bone Allograft is useful in repairing fracture defects and fracture non-unions, filling in destroyed regions of bone due to disease or trauma, obliteration of cystic cavities and joint injuries. Special biological bandages (amniotic from placent) as claimed by Defence Lab of Defence Research and Development Organization are ideal radiation sterilized dressing for burn injuries, bedsores and leprosy wounds.
 
  It was almost five years back when the BSF showed interest after the initial trials of these Cool Vests to beat the high temperatures of deserts, but the same are yet to go into production line. Similar jackets are in use by forces of various countries across the world. Cool vests based on Phase Change Materials have packs which can run for 1000 cycles of 'getting cold and then warm to cold again' and are effective for a duration of 2-3 hours. This means that with the kind of long working hours in forces, one jacket costing nearly Rs 4000 as per these officials would last hardly upto an year or so.
 
  Rest of the products, the   has been harping since long including  , Water Purification systems and kits and the Fast Setting and High Strength Polymer Concrete Composites for rapid repair of runways without water.   is organizing the 25th Prof. Daulat Singh Kothari Memorial Oration on July 10, 2017. Renowned scientist and former Director, Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) would give the lecture on this occasion. 
 
