KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district has surpassed its target of planting 8.38 lakh saplings during this year’s week-long  

 “A total of 9.45 lakh saplings were planted across the district,” said deputy forest conservator   on Friday.
 
 Shukla added, “The week-long drive began on July 1 and by July 7, a total of 65,978 people participated for plantation at 4,102 sites across the district. They registered themselves online. The forest office has the offline data of around 4,000 people contributing in planting 56,522 saplings.”
 
 He said the district surpassed the target this year due to help and active participation from the citizens, employees of government and private organisations, school and college students, among others.
 
 “This year special Van Mahostsav centres were set up across the district from where saplings were kept on sale at very nominal rate. These centres got tremendous response from the citizens,” said Shukla.
 
 From Kolhapur as many as 5,554 people and 61 private organisations bought 21,634 saplings, from which the state government got Rs 1.83 lakh. “A plant count will be organised in October to check the   of the saplings,” he said.
 
 “Every year, we have to organise a plant count in October and May, to check on the survival rate of the saplings. Last year’s survival rate of the planted saplings was found to be around 88-92%, which is pretty good. This year as well we are trying to achieve a better survival rate of the saplings,” he added.
 
 The next year’s target has been aimed at 18 lakh saplings and for the year 2019 it has been kept at 36 lakh. Shukla said that in order to achieve next two year’s target the availability of space for plantation remains one of the major concerns for the department and private cooperation will be needed.
 
 It should be noted that as part of the mega drive initiated by the state government that saw plantation of four crore saplings in the state, the Kolhapur district was given a target of 8.38 lakh saplings all through the forest,   
 
