Chandigarh: Nearly 600   professionals from all across the country congregated at the PGIMER here on Friday to discuss psychiatric wellness among the  .

 The gathering was part of a one-and-a-half day conference of members of the Indian Association of Geriatric Mental Health (IAGMH). This year’s subject is mental health of seniors.
 
 The conference started with PGIMER director Prof Jagat Ram inaugurating the event. To start the meet, IAGMH president and PGIMER psychiatry head Professor Ajit Avasthi delivered a presidential address titled ‘Bringing Dementia Care Back into Psychiatry’. He emphasized in his speech that though, traditionally, dementia had been viewed as a neurological illness, the vast contribution of psychiatry in understanding the condition should not be ignored.
 
 The power-packed day on elderly mental health issues comprised many important topics delivered by eminent psychiatrists of the country. Some of these were topics related to hypertension and its role in dementia, depression in the elderly (vasular depression, distinguishing depression from dementia, and depression among terminally ill elderly individuals).
 
 Some special mental health concerns were also dealt in detail, like emergency care in elderly, life-threatening side effects of psychotropics in the elderly age group, and management of substance withdrawal in elderly.
 
 The day ended with a panel discussion held by eminent mental health professionals over the New Mental Health Care Act, 2017, and its relevance to the mental health care of the elderly at government and private health set-ups. The conference was also attended by psychiatry trainees and private practitioners from Tricity.
 
 Psychiatric disorders such as dementia and depression are most common psychiatric disorders in the elderly which decrease the quality of life of the aged individuals and decrease their capacity for selfcare, the ability to perform daily tasks of life, and impose significant emotional burden on their families. In a low-resource country like India, the care for elderly people with mental illness poses a great burden on the healthcare system and the economy, the experts said.
 
 
