Nagpur: One person succumbed to death while three others were injured after the car in which they were travelling in met with an accident on the Chinchbhuvan Bridge, considered a tricky stretch for motorists and bikers, in the early hours of Saturday.

 Ankush Mishra (22), an MBA aspirant, was declared dead at Orange City Hospital where three of his friends are fighting for their lives.
 
 The injured have been identified as Rohit Chaitnani, Raghav Pimplapure and Gautam Moundekar. The car, owned by Chaitnani, was damaged in the accident. While Moundekar is learnt to be out of danger, the condition of two others is still critical.
 
 The statements of the injured could not be recorded as the doctors have declared them unfit to furnish information to the police. Ankush recently shifted to Mumbai after graduating from a city college.
 
 The police said the friends had gone for the birthday bash of Chaitnani, who too had just passed out from an engineering college in city. The friends had partied till the wee hours before they set out for their residences in the city. It has come to the fore that the car in which they were travelling in was on high speed. However, the cops are still unsure about the fact as to who was driving it.
 
 As per police sources, the driver may have been left bamboozled by something in a fraction of second for which he had to drastically turn the car on the wrong side when it dashed against the parapet of the bridge. After hitting the parapet on the left side, the car moved across the road on the right to first hit a billboard which was uprooted and then rammed into the side wall.
 
 All of them were trapped inside the mangled car which was damaged. The passers-by helped them to get out but left the place without shifting the injured for medical assistance.
 
 Moundekar, who was least injured among the four, alerted one of his friends Harshad Parasgaonkar who rushed to help them. The cops from Sonegaon police station were alerted after they were shifted to the hospital by Parasgaonkar and others. “Only Moundekar could mumble something. Others were lying on the ground beside him,” he said.
 
 Senior PI of Sonegaon police station Sanjay Pande said an offence of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the driver who is yet to be identified.
 
 
