PATNA: Former deputy CM and senior BJP functionary   on Tuesday levelled serious allegations against  , his deputy   and the state government machinery for their callousness in handling   boat tragedy and the poor preparations for the kite festival due to which 24 people died.
 
  Nitish on Monday said that he had no proper information about the kite festival. However, Modi on Tuesday countered his claim by saying that CM had inaugurated the first kite festival at the sandbar five years ago.
  
  “It is not possible that Nitish was unaware about the kite festival as he only had inaugurated the first kite festival in Sabbalpur Diara in 2012. Besides, there was a half-page advertisement on the kite festival in most of the local newspapers on Saturday. The advertisements were issued by the information & public relations department and the CM himself is the minister of this department. And the CM reads the newspapers like textbooks, hence it is not possible that he did not know about the kite festival,” said Modi.
  
  SuMo also questioned the Nitish’s statement that he got to know about the accident 90 minutes after it happened. “If the CM says so, it proves the government’s failure,” he said.
  
  SuMo also claimed that the accident was result of complete callousness on the part of government machinery. “Even the deputy CM, who is the in-charge minister of Patna district, could have done proper monitoring of the preparations for the kite festival. Besides, Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor should have also looked after the preparations,” Modi said.
  
  The former deputy CM said the state government’s probe is an eyewash and an FIR has been lodged against  , even though it had not started yet.
  
  “It is quite disappointing that not a single official has been suspended or transferred even after 72 hours of the incident. Besides, neither the CM nor any minister has met the relatives of the victims after the accident. Besides, the inquiry team also has not submitted even a preliminary report on the incident,” said Modi.
