MELBOURNE:   leapt into the Melbourne night, punch ing the air before going down on his knees to celebrate his first semifinal appearance in a major since winning Roland Garros in 2014. It's been a long road for the Spaniard, who plays the waiting game better than anyone in the sport.

 Nadal, perhaps out of patience or spurred by the conditions, played the aggressor against Canada's heavyserving third-seed   in the serving third-seed Milos Rao   quarterfinals. The 14-time Grand Slam champion, stepping in and attacking the 6 ft 5 Canadian's serve, swinging and cr unching, came through 6-4, 7-6 (9-7), 6-4.
 
 Nadal will next face Bulgaria's   , who won the opening tournament of the year in Brisbane and extended his streak of match wins to 10. The other semifinal, an all-Swiss affair, pits strongman Stan Wawrinka opposite the fan favourite Roger Federer.
 
 Nadal, who struggled with injuries for much of the last three years, admitted that he wondered if he'd ever make it to the bigger stages of the sport again. “Even when I was winning I had doubts, so it was more when I wasn't no?“ he said. “I had a great career, but I also had tough moments, so when I have good moments like this again I enjoy it more.“
 
 Nadal said he changed tactics on his return this time after his loss to Raonic two weeks ago. “I was receiving from six-seven metres behind the baseline in Brisbane. I decided to go in.Before the match today we were talking about trying to combine, returning sometimes very close to the baseline and sometimes back,“ he said. “I felt well from inside, felt that I was putting some pressure on him, so I decided to stay in almost all the time. Even for moments he played so good from the baseline, I was there trying to stop his aggressive shots, not losing court.“
 
 Nadal took control of the opening set early, breaking in the seventh game and holding on to the advantage. The, towering Canadian, who looked increasingly suspect on his backhand side, moaned and groaned his way through much of the second set, taking a medical timeout after the fifth game.
 
 Raonic, who has beaten Nadal in two of their last three meetings, including a three-setter in the quarterfinals of Brisbane earlier this month, has been changing coaches with the regularity of an indecisive customer in a department store. While former No.1 Carlos Moya switched allegiance to the Nadal camp, the 26-year-old, who has been chasing American legend John McEnroe for a while, is being coached by Dutchman Richard Krajicek.
 
 Nadal, cheered on by Moya, who repeatedly pointed to his head, perhaps reminding the 2009 champion to stay on top, very nearly slipped in the tenth game. A double fault gave Raonic two set points, which the Spaniard saved but when he had an open court to play his forehand to and pull free, Nadal attempted a drop shot which found the bottom of the net, giving the Canadian his third set point. However, Raonic didn't shut the door and Nadal levelled, pushing the set to a tie-break.
 
 Raonic went ahead 5-3 and 6-4, throwing up a peach of a lob en route, perhaps his best shot of the match, giving himself two more set points. Nadal saved the first with a big serve and on the second the Canadian obliged with a double fault. Raonic then went ahead 7-6 (on his sixth set point) which the 30-year-old saved before closing out on his first set point opportunity .
 
 Nadal pushed as games went with serves in the third set. In the tenth, Raonic serving to stay in the match, was beaten by an inspired Nadal.
 
 
