MUMBAI: Resolution of bad debts, on the books of public sector banks, could get delayed following the CBI’s arrest of top   officials for sanctioning loans that went bad after a restructuring programme. Many public sector lenders are in a state of shock after   arrested, what was then the top rung of IDBI Bank, for sanctioning a loan of Rs 900 crore to   (KFA). Although IDBI Bank was one among the consortium of 17 lenders — which together advanced Rs 6,900 crore to KFA — bankers feel that IDBI was targeted because the institution breached internal norms.

 Most public sector bankers TOI spoke to, said that commercial decision-making would get hit because of the CBI action. But none were willing to speak on record. “Not just loan resolution but there might be an impact on PSUs’ sanctioning of new loans as well,” said Dipak Gupta, joint managing director,  . According to Gupta, lenders would be extremely cautious on new proposals.
 
 Another chief of a private bank said that this would be very untimely as credit growth is at its lowest in decades. At the same time bad loans are at an all-time high, and need to be resolved in order to free up bank balance sheets for lending.
 
 According to Karthik Srinivasan, senior vice-president at ratings agency  , the development could impact new loans and also decisions on resolution of bad loans. “It is human nature to be cautious under such circumstances. There would be concern on whether the haircut would be considered too low,” said Srinivasan.
 
 According to Srinivasan, bad loans in public sector banks have crossed Rs 6.3 lakh crore, which represents around 11% of their loan book. “If the restructured loans and other loans where borrowers have been given more time are taken into account, stressed assets would be around 17-18% of their portfolio.”
 
 Private banks have addressed bad loans by growing advances and doing one-time settlements with defaulters. PSBs have been able to do neither. This means PSUs would have to fall back on the government for capital. “The Rs 20,000 crore set aside under Indradhanush scheme is far too less and the government would have to set aside more,” said Srinivasan. But this could raise criticism from some quarters about throwing good money after bad, he added.
 
 Last year at the recent meeting of the Banks Board Bureau ( ), a new body constituted by the government to improve governance of public sector lenders, PSU banks sought immunity from “unnecessary oversight” from agencies such as the CBI and the Central Vigilance Commission ( ) on decisions related to loans that are taken collectively.
 
 
