PANCHKULA: Even as the   court in   heard arguments in the murder trial against   head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on Saturday, local police released photograp hs of 10 people who are absconding after allegedly incited the rioting that took place in the city on August 25. The rogues' gallery that Panchkula police has uploaded on its website includes Gurmeet's 'adopted' daughter Honeypreet Insan and the dera's spokesman Aditya Insan. Even as the CBI court in Panchkula heard arguments in the murder trial against   Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on Saturday, local police released photographs of 10 people who are absconding after they allegedly incited the rioting that took place in the city on August 25. As many as 38 people were shot and killed in police firing after dera followers had unleashed mayhem in Panchkula to protest against Gurmeet being convicted of rape. According to the cops, these 10 people triggered the violence and they were strategically placed in the mob for maximum impact.

 The rogues' gallery that police uploaded on its website includes Gurmeet 'adopted' daughter Honeypreet Insan and dera's spokesman Aditya Insan apart from eight other men who have not been identified by name. Police officials say these 10 people sent messages and signals to around 30 to 40 members of the dera 'sangat' at different locations to spread violence.
 
 The photos of the eight unknown persons have been sifted out from videos of violence that residents and journalists sent to cops as evidence against the rioters. The videos were submitted on a WhatsApp number after the police appealed to residents to help them identify the culprits.
 
 Panchkula commissioner of police A S Chawla tweeted the link with the photographs and said, "Link to those wanted in connection with violence in Panchkula on 25.08.2017 has been uploaded on   may Portal. Please help in arresting them."
 
 SP  , who is heading the special investigation team (SIT) to collect videos, told TOI, "Right now, 10 people have been identified through various videos collected from public and their sources."Dera's managers had strategically placed people in the crowd who were then given instructions to create violence." He added that they are studying all the videos and will soon identify more people who led mobs.Deputy superintendent of police Rahul Dev, who is also part of SIT, said the persons who headed the mobs fled soon after inciting other members and after providing them with petrol and sticks. "Some sangat members were not even aware of the violence as only a group of 30 to 40 people in the whole group headed by Honeypreet and Aditya Insan triggered the violence."
 
