Every year, thousands of Indian students aspire to study abroad in countries like the US, UK and Singapore. After multiple searches and expensive counselling sessions, a few find their way through to a college of their choice. For parents, there is the anxiety of financing a child's education and worrying about safety. To ease the path toward higher education for students and parents, husband wife duo Pavan and   set up Meritlane in 2015.

 “We want Meritlane to be the spot where India's smartest kids hang out,“ said Kachibhatla. Meritlane offers a digital platform for students to find the best universities suited to their interests, create a repository of achievements, climb up a leaderboard and bag a chance to win a scholarship.
 
 Before this, Kachibhatla was the founder and CEO of Bijlipay, an mPOS service provider. On exiting Bijlipay , Kachibhatla was on the lookout for a problem to solve. “My wife and I realised that students in India aspire to achieve great things, no holds barred. We wanted to find a way where children are not uni-dimensionally evaluated only based on their marks or grades,“ said Kachibhatla. Meritlane was set up in November 2015. Once a student signs up on Meritlane, they can enter nuggets of information and its proprietary algorithm Unimatch will present 12 courses universities (based on   ranking) that best match the child's profile. “When a parent prepares to send their child abroad, they look into aspects like if a relative is nearby . Our algorithm considers these aspects too,“ he adds. Students can upload videos, audio clips, certificates and other records and build a portfolio of their work. Points are awarded for each submission which puts each child on a scoreboard. Kachibatla plans to offer scholarships to the top 100 with the child who reaches the top of the leader board bagging a scholarship of Rs 30 lakh.
 
 For the past month, Tisha Ghosh from Delhi has been uploading certificates of accomplishments like a congratulatory letter from the education minister on her high scores, Silver medal in The Duke of Edinburgh's award, her wins at several model united nations. Ghosh intends to go to the   to pursue a pre-medical degree in psychology. “It means a lot to be shortlisted for the student accelerator program at Meritlane,“ said Ghosh. For Shankar Subramanian, Meritlane has given him a way to connect with his son Ashwin. Pursuing Grade 11 at Hiranandani Upscale School, Ashwin, like most kids his age, has a mind of his own.
 
 “As parents, we don't have enough clarity on what they aspire to. Meritlane has given me a window view into his preferences,“ said Subramanian. With over 5,000 registered users, Kachibhatla has received interest from several universities to source the best students from his platform.At a subscription of Rs 9,750 per annum, students get access to a free Skype counselling session, critique of their essays, chat with other students on the platform and access alumni of their desired colleges. The founders are in talks with US and UK lenders for loans for all users.
 
 (This series captures the startup ecosystem in the state)
 
