NEW DELHI: Days before the  , a panel of chief ministers has recommended a ban on cash transactions beyond a threshold and a tax on payments beyond Rs 50,000 as it sought to discourage the use of physical currency while suggesting a host of incentives for payments by card and other digital means.

 In its interim report submitted to PM   on Tuesday, the committee led by Andhra CM N Chandrababu   suggested a host of tools, including a subsidy of up to Rs 1,000 for smartphones purchased by those who do not pay income tax as well as small merchants in addition to lowering or doing away with the merchant discount rate or the fee paid on card and online transactions.
 
 Naidu said he was “very confident“ that some of the recommendations would be incorporated in the Budget, due to be presented on February 1.
 
 Some proposals related to disincentivising cash may find traction as the Supreme Court-appointed SIT on black money, too, had suggested a cap on cash transactions as well as a limit on how much an entity could hold in physical form. Although the proposal to levy a cash transaction tax has found support, a section within the government is not in favour of this as it believes incentives will yield better results. Even within the committee, there were backers of the incentivedriven model as opposed to disincentives but most members backed a carrot and stick policy as the government may not find adequate resources to fund the sops.
 
 The   government had imposed a bank cash transaction tax on cash withdrawals, but had to do away with it in 2009 after criticism. UPA's move was meant to be a revenue-generating exercise and not to boost digital payments, sources said.
 
 There is renewed focus on the need to root out black money and it has intensified after the note ban. The committee of CMs was set up post-demonetisation to suggest ways to boost the use of non-cash channels.
 
 The committee said there was a need to strengthen security , expand infrastructure and increase awareness for greater adoption of digital payments. The panel has also proposed tax sops for domestic production of micro ATMs and biometric sensors, along with a subsidy of 50% to merchant points using Aadhaar Pay , which will use fingerprint or iris scan. Further, the panel has suggested that all 1.5 lakh post offices should have infrastructure to deal with Aadhaar-enabled micro ATMs and there should be inter-operability for banking correspondent via Aadhaar-enabled payment system.
 
 Explaining the advantage of digital payments, Naidu said physical currency was costly because of its printing, movement and security while there was no such cost for digital currency .Visa had estimated the cost of cash handling at 1.7% of GDP. Naidu elaborated that with increase in volume of digital transitions, cost would reduce.
 
