Railway users’ body, experts and passengers have given a mixed reaction to the brief railway budget incorporated in the general budget.

 As reported by TOI on Wednesday, finance minister Arun Jaitley’s focus was on infrastructure and capex on upgrades. Railway analyst and expert Alok Patel hailed the move to do away with the service tax by IRCTC on e-tickets.
 
 Patel also welcomed the move to create a safety fund of Rs 1 lakh crore for five years. “Considering the spurt in recent derailments in which 200 passengers died, such a fund was need of the hour,” said Patel.
 
 ENT surgeon and regular traveller Dr Naresh Agrawal said, “I’m happy that IRCTC has withdrawn service tax on e-tickets. The new accounting reforms is expected to bring transparency in railways.”
 
  (BYK) general secretary   said, “The finance minister was not specific about announcements. The issues like cleanliness, bio-toilets in all coaches, customizing of rolling stock, promoting solar energy, reducing operating ratio are continued processes. However, I welcome move on safety fund.”
 
 Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) member   said no new significant policy measures were announced. The decision to do away with all unmanned railway crossings and laying of new lines is an old policy decision. 
 
 Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary of  , said there is no clarity about railway budget. However, there is no fare hike and no service charge on e-tickets is a good thing. 
 
 “Setting up of the safety fund is a good move,” he added.
 
 Regular traveller Ajay   says on most of the zonal railways, the operating ratio this year has been more than 100 (Re 1 spent for every rupee earned). “There are no major efforts to mop up net earnings. A major reason may be slump in industrial production, but railways need to change policy for coal linkages/imports, indifferent attitude and improve operational inefficiency. There is no policy to boost marketing effort at all,” said Gajbhiye.
 
 What’s good
 
 * No service tax on e-tickets
 
 * Safety fund of Rs 1 lakh crore for 5 years
 
 * Listing IRCTC and IRCOn
 
 What’s bad
 
 * Lack of effort to mop up net earnings
 
 
