MYSURU: Eminent   writer and rationalist Prof   (Champa) said that the chief minister Siddaramaiah-led government had fulfilled the need for a pro-Kannada government in the state.

 After inaugurating the social justice convention organised by the Karnataka Rajya Hindulida Vargagala Jagrutha Vedike to mark the first death anniversary of Rakesh   at Ranibahadur Auditorium on Sunday, Champa said, "We have seen Karnataka governments in the past, but wanted a Kannada government."
 
 Against the backdrop of the raging debate over the use of Hindi, Champa said, "The NDA government at the Centre is trying to impose Hindi on the states. There is no mention of Hindi being the national language in the Constitution. Just because people in the New Delhi speak the language, the Centre cannot impose the language on the states. Hindi is like any other regional language." Lauding Siddaramaiah’s instructions to have the Hindi signs removed at Namma Metro stations in Bengaluru, Champa added, "He has succeeded in protecting regional interests despite being from a national party."
 
 Appreciating the demand for a separate state flag made by the CM, Champa said, "The issue was first raised by BS   when he was CM. But DV Sadananda Gowda and Jagadish Shettar failed to follow it up. It's sad that the issue had become a topic of national debate with state and national television channels joining the cry of the BJP leaders, although Siddaramaiah formed an expert panel to study the issue."
 
 Debate for separate religion status On the demand for a separate religion for Veerashaiva and Lingayat communities, Champa said, "The two communities have been fighting since the 12th Century. It was not triggered by Siddaramaiah."
 
 He pointed out that there was a lot of confusion surrounding the issue. While the Rambhapuri Mutt seer Prasanna Renuka stated that Veerashaivas are Hindus,   has demanded a separate religion for the Lingayats. On the other hand, the Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha president Shamanur Shivashankarappa wants the Centre to declare Veerashaiva-Lingayat as a separate religion. However, some leaders in the Lingayat community do not want to go with the Veerashaivas. "When Yeddyurappa himself wrote to Centre seeking a separate religion for Veerashaiva-Lingayats, they cannot blame Siddaramaiah for the fight," Champa said.
 
 Meanwhile, Yathindra Siddaramaiah called on the people to support the party that promoted social justice. The convention was attended by deputy commissioner D Randeep, CM’s joint secretary M Ramaiah, zila panchayat CEO P Shivashankar, Bangalore University registrar BK Ravi and others.
 
