Chennai: When Bobby Garg decided to set up ‘Rummy Passion’, he thought it would be popular with the audience up north. With the trademark Diwali poker parties, North India has been considered the destination of card games for long. What took him by surprise was the soaring interest from cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Today, 80-90% of his marketing spend is targeted at the southern audience. Several card game startups including Khelo365, DeccanRummy too are tapping into the avid card gamers of the south. Industry estimates peg the skill-based online card game market in India at $100-120 million and some southern states, namely Karnataka, Telegana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu constitute 65% of it. “Within a few months, we realised that we must focus on these. We now offer customer support in Tamil and Telugu and this has been a gamechanger for us,” Garg said.  Players on RummyPassion range from 18 to 82 year olds. “We see high volume between 1 pm to 4pm with a lot of businessmen playing with each other. The second peak comes in betwen 8pm and 11pm,” said Garg.  A regular player on RummyPassion logs in for ateast 1.5 hours a day and avid gamers go on upto 12-14 hours.  29 year-old Parthiban Duraisamy hailing from Namakkal has been playing rummy online for the past 1 year.  “I tried various platforms before settling with Rummy Passion. I have my own business so I get atleast 3-4 hours a day to play,” he said.  “If you consider Hyderabad and Bengaluru which are as good as metros, we have 3 metros in the south which brings in the relatively well off primary population. Games like Rummy and Poker are games of skill and it is a fact that literacy rate is high in the southern states. So even among the tier 2 population, it is the south that is keen on these games,” said Amin Rozani at The Spartan Poker.  Over half their users are from the south and 80-90% of the startup’s marketing spend is directed towards cities down south.  This startup is focussing on Bengaluru which has a growing audience. “We go to colleges, malls and corporates to conduct events and spread the word. While the game is primarily in English, notifications, announcements and displays come in regional languages,” said Rozani.  When Vinod Senthil, Vinod Manoharan and Naresh Rajaram decided to set up Khelo365, a poker startup, south was the obvious choice. “Andhra Pradesh players have a big risk appetite. We keep seeing big stakes coming from these players. Chennai is our home market so we focus predominantly on the south,” said Manoharan, cofounder, Khelo365. The platform has over 200,000 users. While winnings depend entirely on the stakes made and one can make several lakhs in each game, these platforms offer varying range of tables right from Rs 8 upto Rs 10,000. Khelo365 has multiple offers running on their platform like winning gold coins and parties at exotic locations for leaderboard winners.  The trio have also set up DeccanRummy for those interested in rummy. RummyPassion has gone an extra length to identify southern festivals and make promotional offers. “For Onam, we had an offer where players deposit money would be doubled if they used the Onam coupon code. We want to reward loyalty and regionalise the flavour of the market,” said Garg.