KOLKATA: Days after the arrest of three “doctors“, who had allegedly faked their degrees and got appointed at government health centres and private hospitals, by the CID from north Bengal, the agency has revealed that one of them -Kaiser Alam -had been employed with the   for one and a half years.

 The hospital officials refused to comment on the issue, saying the matter was sub judice.
 
 According to CID sources, Kaiser had been employed with the hospital between March 2010 and September 2011 after which he opted to join government service. The sleuths visited Ruby hospital on Thursday to check the records. CID is hoping the hospital's biometric system was installed back then. “It will be easier to ascertain details if we have digital evidence,“ claimed an officer. DIG (operations)   refused to divulge if Ruby has been slapped a notice by CID.
 
 Police said Kaiser's questioning has led them to believe that his appointment was vetted by a board.“We wanted to know from Ruby the names of these board members so that we can ascertain if any background check was carried out,“ said an officer. Sources said Ruby ho spital claimed that another doctor, now employed with another hospital on Lenin Sarani, had issued a character certificate in Kaizer's name. CID sources said they would contact this doctor “at the earliest“.
 
 The CID had brought the two accused -Khusinath Halder and   -to Kolkata. The third accused -Snehashish Chakraborty -is also being brought to Kolkata.
 
 In a statement issued on Friday, Ruby hospital said since the matter is being “investigated by the appropriate authority and is sub judice“, they can't comment on it.
 
 CID sources said the ongoing probe is crucial as they believe other fake doctors are still employed even in this city .“At least one of the accused worked as one of the most important recruiters from Bengal for a Bihar-based gang,“ said a source.
 
 According to sources, a former senior official at Ruby   had a role to play in appointing Alam. He quit Ruby a few years ago and now heads another private city hospital.
 
