Lucknow: Nearly five months after he was appointed party vice-president,   chief Mayawati’s brother   is likely to make his first public appearance during a party rally in Meerut on Monday. Kumar, who has always preferred to stay away from public glare, is likely to be present at the rally along with his son, Akash. 

 Sources said Anand and Akash have both been attending most of the party meetings called by   in Lucknow as well as in Delhi in the recent past. “They are likely to be present at the   too,” said a senior BSP leader on condition of anonymity. Mayawati had announced appointment of Anand as party vice-president during birth anniversary celebrations of B R Ambedkar on April 14. She had, however, made it clear that Anand would only help in party activities and would not become a legislator or MP. Mayawati, during a closed-door meeting with her party leaders a day later, introduced her nephew Akash, a management post-graduate, as an ‘upcoming’ party functionary. 
 
 Ever since, the father-son duo has been taking keen interest in the party’s activities, mostly in western UP. Akash, in fact, had accompanied Mayawati when she visited the riot-hit Saharanpur in May. BSP sources said Mayawati may now seek to establish her brother and nephew through rallies which she has planned to hold after resigning from Rajya Sabha on July 18 in protest of not being allowed to speak on issues of Dalit atrocities.
 
 In all, Mayawati plans to hold six rallies, each covering three divisional headquarters across the state in a show of strength post her party’s humiliating defeat in the state assembly elections. The Meerut rally, which intends to bring in party supporters from as many as 60 assembly constituencies comprising Moradabad, Meerut and Saharanpur divisions, could thus set the tone for her plan for the party’s revival. “All preparations are made and we expect a massive turnout,” west UP zonal in charge Shamshuddin Rayin told TOI.
 
 Political experts said Mayawati propping her brother and nephew on a political stage could potentially bring the spotlight back on her strategy to consolidate the Dalit vote bank which has apparently drifted towards the BJP, first during the Lok Sabha elections and then in the UP Assembly elections. Anand has already been given a key position in the party and speculations are rife that Akash may soon be given a bigger role within the party structure.
 
 
