VIJAYAWADA: The   government has   with   which are expected to create over 12,000 jobs in the state in the next few years. Memoranda of understanding were signed with EVX Solutions Ltd, Innova Solutions and I-Bridge INC. 

 The MoUs were entered into on the second day of chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu-led a high-level delegation's visit on Saturday (IST) in San Francisco. While EVX Solutions Ltd is expected to create 10,000 jobs, Innova Solutions is planning to offer jobs to 2,000 people.
 
 The delegation later met chief operating officer (COO) of Apple Jeff Williams and invited the firm to invest in Andhra Pradesh. Naidu urged Apple to establish a manufacturing facility in the state. 
 
 Earlier in the day, the chief minister visited Google's X facility that developed Google's driver-less cars and glasses projects besides using balloons for spreading internet. He interacted with firm's CEO Astro Teller and discussed the latest technological and innovative advancements. On the occasion, Google X has agreed to collaborate with the state to enhance Internet penetration in AP. Google X gave a demonstration of driver-less car and use of drones to deliver various products to homes to the delegation.
 
 Naidu also met with vice-president of Qualcomm Technologies Inc Gopi Sirineni who expressed keenness to work within AP on the fibre grid project. The CM asked Gopi Sirineni to study the current status of the project and identify where his firm can contribute.
 
 Later, he interacted with NRIs and appealed to them to invest in AP. "Time has come for you to do your bit for your motherland. We are looking for partnerships for development of the state and I invite you to invest in your state which is rich in natural resources," he appealed and said that prospective investors should focus on investing in  
 
 Minister for finance Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, government advisor (communications) Parakala Prabhakar, CM secretary G Saiprasad, Economic Development Board CEO J Krishna Kishore, CRDA principal secretary Ajay Jain, IT principal secretary K Vijayanand and secretary of industries   were present.
 
 
