HYDERABAD: April heat seems to be ratcheting up the mercury in political arenas too, with the   deciding to launch its formal assault on Telangana politics. The party has selected the MIM fortress, the Hyderabad parliamentary constituency, to sound its bugle and announce its intention of fighting for supremacy in the state in the next assembly elections.

 Leaving no one in doubt about the BJP’s plans, its first parliamentary constituency-level meeting in Hyderabad is to be addressed by its national president  . The Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) has held the Hyderabad   seat since 1984, when it was first won by Sultan Salahuddin  . 
 
 The meeting on April 7 is one of the 17 gatherings in each Lok Sabha constituencies in Telangana. “This is the tentative date for the meeting where Amit Shah will speak to booth level in-charges of the party,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 Plans for these meetings were discussed at the three-day BJP training camp at Annojiguda on the city outskirts that concluded on Sunday. Several central leaders, including Union ministers  ,   and Rajiv Pratap Rudy, will address each of the 17 meetings.
 
 Part of the training was to prepare nearly 400 BJP leaders, including members of the state executive, district presidents and general secretaries and state-level office bearers, as well as its five MLAs and one MLC in the state. With elections in Telangana about two years away, the state is expected to get more attention from the Centre as well. 
 
 One of the focal points during the three-day event was how the central government has done a lot for Telangana but everything has been subverted by the TRS government. The immediate task, the party leaders were told, was to inform people about how the TRS government is ‘riding on central schemes and taking credit for them.’ 
 
 After decimating the Congress, the BJP sees itself as an alternative to regional parties. “TRS, by that token, is something the BJP will take on and expects to take down. We do not know when, it could be in 2019 or in 2018,” BJP spokesperson   said.
 
