HYDERABAD: Sri Lanka’s national carrier   on Wednesday said it will be adding the three south Indian cities of Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Coimbatore to its global network with effect from July 8, 2017, as part of its continuing strategic focus on India.

 The airline will offer four flights every week to each of these destinations. While it will fly from Hyderabad to Colombo on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays (departing at 9.50 am and arriving in Colombo at 11.45 am), it will connect Visakhapatnam to Colombo with flights on Mondays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays (departing at 10.10 am and arriving in Colombo at 12.15 pm). The new routes will be serviced by Airbus 320/321 aircraft. Interestingly, this will be SriLankan’s second attempt at catering to the Hyderabad market, from where it pulled out a few years ago.
 
 The new connections are expected to bridge the demand from both Indians and Sri Lankans for seamless connections across the region for work and leisure purposes, the airline said.
 
 “India has been a vital part of our strategic expansion, where we will continue to explore the potential to consolidate our presence. At a time the industry is consistently developing travel movements around tier-II cities as opposed to traditional hubs, it is timely to offer these connectivity options. The new routes also reinforce our commitment to strengthen the deep commercial and bilateral ties between India and Sri Lanka,” SriLankan Airlines chief commercial officer Siva Ramachandran said in a statement. SriLankan, which already caters to Indian cities such as New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Tiruchirappalli, Trivandrum, Cochin, Madurai, Varanasi and  , will also introduce four additional frequencies to its daily services from Delhi and Mumbai, taking SriLankan’s services to over 120 flights-a-week to 14 Indian cities.
 
 SriLankan joins other international carriers like Emirates, British Airways,  , Tiger Air, SilkAir, Qatar Airways, Saudi Arabian Airlines, Etihad Airways,  , Oman Air, Malaysian Airlines, Gulf Air, flydubai and Air Arabia that fly to various destinations across the globe from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, which is operated by GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL).
 
 Commenting on the development, a GHIAL spokesperson said: “RGIA has emerged as the gateway of choice for passengers to and from South-Central India with a 22% jump in total passenger traffic to 15.24 million per annum in 2016-17 and 23% growth in air traffic over 2015-16.”
 
