PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: After a lengthy gap, cheerful vigour returns to   on January 22 in the form of  , which offers a chance to enjoy over a dozen outdoor activities on vehicle-free roads.

 After engaging lakhs of citizens in Camp and Kothrud over the past six weeks, it’s now time for Pimpri Chinchwad residents to bask in the sun, feel the morning breeze and kick-start their Sunday morning with an engaging line-up of fun and fitness-based activities with Happy Streets, which returns to its original spot.
 
 For three hours starting 6.30am, the stretch from Kokane Chowk to   near Nashik Phata will turn into a community zone where participants will be able to enjoy a mix of sports and recreation. Leading the pack of activities will be Zumba and dance fitness that attract not just those looking to shed a few kilos, but just about anyone who can feel the beats of the music. 
 
 For those looking to work up a sweat, choose between aerobic workouts, street soccer and badminton. Participants can also skate and cycle around the venue, not just to burn calories, but to also enjoy the thrill of being on the road without the fear of being run over by a motor vehicle. Rent-free cycles will be made available at the venue.
 
 The meditation corner at the venue is sure to benefit those who seek peace and calm, while participants with a musical bent of mind can head straight to the VJ Live Stage to display their prowess or take part in the multiple sessions of drum circles that will be conducted at the event. A Game Zone and special corners dedicated to kids and chalk art will also be set up to ensure every member of the family has their share of fun. 
 
 The selfie-corner too must not be missed, especially for those who want to lock-in their memories of the fun time at the event.
 
 Happy Streets is organized by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police,   and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. 
 
 The event, powered by  , is aimed at popularizing the concept of vehicle-free roads for fun and engaging community activities.
 
 Happy Streets is expected to be conducted in Pimpri Chinchwad for three Sundays starting January 22, before it moves to its last location in Baner.
 
