HYDERABAD: A couple was swindled of gold and 2 lakh in cash after being caught in a 'tantra' trap of a yoga trainer. Not just this, the woman victim was stripped naked and thrashed with a leather belt to exorcise her of spirits amidst voodoo chants and wafting smoke. The couple from Hyderabad was rescued by police from a hellhole in Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu after the victim sent an SOS on Facebook. 

 The yoga trainer   and her brother Abhishek were arrested on charges of kidnap, extortion and assault. Usha lured the couple on the pretext of yogic healing and then forced them to believe the woman was afflicted by ghosts.
 
 Madhapur police said Kiranmai and her husband, Jagadeesh, were put under a hypnotic spell and kidnapped. They visited the Sshru Yoga Center, which was set up by the accused, Usha, with funds from her NRI friend,  .
 
 Speaking to reporters, assistant commissioner of police (Madhapurner of police (Madhapur division) M   said the victim, Kiranmai, was forced to go nude by Usha and her accomplice Abhishek and then beaten with a belt and `rudhraksh mala'.
 
 In April, Usha returned from US after parting with her husband and launched a yoga centre even as they trapped the gullible and practised witchcraft in the garb of healing.
 
 The victims, Kiranmai and her husband, joined   at the centre in June. Within days, Usha gained their confidence and convinced them they were under an evil influence. Usha promised to relieve her of spirits through witchcraft,'' said Ramana.
 
 Officials said the victims were told they would be taken to Srisailam for a special puja, but were whisked away to Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. “The woman surrendered all her gold ornaments and transferred Rs 2 lakh from their account to Usha's bank account. Kiranmai was told to take off her clothes and wear the ornaments during the voodoo session,“ said police.
 
 After being conned and traumatized, the woman left a message on her Facebook page, seeking help. Her family members in Hyderabad alerted police, who traced the accused and rescued them from Tamil Nadu.
 
