PUNE: Presuming the district will face water shortage in the summer months, collector   has granted permission only for ‘dry holi’ events. 

 As a result, no   events will be held in the city over the weekend and on Monday. 
 
 A review of the water levels will be taken up next week and Rao has directed the entertainment department not to give permission for rain dance events. The department has received 20 requests for Holi events to be held on March 11,12 and 13.
 
 Resident deputy collector   told TOI that due care will be taken to save water since summer has just started and the shortage is likely to intensify. “Presently we are comfortable with dam storage levels. However, we need to take all precautions. Although there are events lined up, we have issued specific instructions to the district entertainment department,” said Muthe.
 
 While there is no demand for tankers in Pune district yet, the summer months will require water conservation, Muthe added. At present, 21 tankers are in operation across the division, mainly for Satara and Sangli districts.
 
 District administration officials said that they will draw out a comprehensive plan as last year over 100 tankers were demanded. So, water conservation measures are being taken up at the start of the summer months itself.
 
 Sushma Chowdhury, head of the district entertainment department, said that they have told all applicants that they would not be allowed to organise a rain dance. “Our squad will conduct checks after we issue the permissions,” she stated.
 
 According to Muthe, the district administration has also issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to prevent revellers from entering the Khadakwasla dam on March 12 and 13. The orders are an effort to ensure that the water remains clean and devoid of pollutants.
 
 The four dams supplying water to Pune have 46.23% water storage. Temghar dam has very low storage as it is under repairs. Senior irrigation officials said that all precautionary measures need to be taken ahead of the summer months. “There is no point announcing severe water cuts later. Last year, dam levels had depleted to such an extent that even we even contemplated using dead stock,” stated another official.
 
