NEW DELHI: Within 24 hours of Bihar chief minister   reiterating the state’s demand for a national policy on desiltation of the Ganga, the Union water resources ministry made public the report of a high-level committee that seeks to address the problem and suggests multiple measures to ensure uninterrupted flow of the river.

 Aviral Dhara or uninterrupted flow of the holy river is in fact a key component of the Centre’s ambitious ‘Namami Gange’(Ganga rejuvenation) programme whose progress was reviewed by the Prime Minister   on Thursday—the day Nitish Kumar too flagged the issue.
 
 Though officials during their presentation to the PM claimed that the sewage treatment capacity in towns along the river is being enhanced substantially, figures shared by the water resources ministry with Parliament during the budget session present a poor record of progress on the ground. 
 
 During the review, the PM stressed the need to further increase public awareness and participation in the task of cleaning the Ganga — a point he underlined at Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh on the concluding day of the ‘Narmada Sewa Yatra’. “The biggest strength of democracy is ‘Jan Bhagidari’ (people’s participation)”, said Modi while addressing the gathering and appealing to states to emulate MP’s model of river rejuvenation.
 
 Though the PM had then not named any states, the plea was a clear message to states that have so far fallen short in carrying out the Centre’s Ganga rejuvenation project. The Bihar water resources department, meanwhile, earlier in the week organised a two-day conference in the capital on ‘De-siltation in the Ganga: problems and solutions’.
 
 On the occasion, Nitish Kumar stressed the need for concrete steps to ensure uninterrupted flow of the Ganga. “Otherwise, cleanliness of the river is not possible”, said the Bihar chief minister while noting that the silt in the state is not a “political issue”. The Centre promptly got back by releasing the Chitale committee for “wider consultations and action” on desiltation of Ganga which had been gathering dust for nearly three months. 
 
 The committee, which was constituted under water and river expert Madhav Chitale in July last year to prepare guidelines for desiltation of river Ganga from Bhimgauda (Uttarakhand) to Farakka (West Bengal), had submitted its report to the ministry in February.
 
 Nitish Kumar during the conference recalled the devastating flood that the state had witnessed in the Ganga basin last year and urged the Centre to frame a sound policy on silt management. He also referred to the Chitale panel report which has accepted the problem of siltation in the river Ganga and its adverse impact.
 
 The committee, on its part, has recommended a slew of measures which include study of reach wise sediment transport processes along with establishing annual sediment budgets to guide desilting activities, preparation of annual reports (sand registry) describing the previous desilting/dredging activity and study on sediment budget before going ahead with de-siltation in a particular stretch of the river.
 
 It, however, recommended a cautious approach to deal with the issue.
 
