Belagavi-based journalist Mahboob Makandar has a helpless drawl in his voice when he says, "Hamari group ki haalat to Munni Badnaam Hui jaisi ho gayi hai," referring both to a Bollywood item number and his own current situation. "This is the first time something like this has happened to us. I removed him immediately," he adds.

 Makandar is an admin for the ' ', a   in which   Mahantesh Kavatagimath posted a PDF file containing 56 screenshots of porn stars on Tuesday. The group has Belagavi-based electronic and print media journalists, along with politicians from JDS, Congress, BJP and top officials from the police and government departments.
 
 "We started the group four years ago and it was being used as a platform to share Belagavi-related information. Never before has this happened. Kavatagimath was there in this group from the beginning and has been an active participant. He always posts messages about his official functions, questions asked in the council, grants sanctioned, etc," he said.
 
 Makandar told BM that he had been a Belagavi-based Kannada journalist for the last 25 years and was presently running a news portal called Belagavisuddi.com. He also added that he tried reaching out to the two-time BJP MLC on his mobile phone but it was switched off.
 
 "One or two group members responded to the post saying it was shocking and quite a few posted emojis. Others chose to remain silent. It was an unexpected development," Makandar added
 
 BM tried to reach out to Kavatagimath, but he refused to accept calls and texted back saying he was on his way to Bengaluru by road. Despite text messages, he declined to comment.
 
 "I am travelling to Bgm by road and I will only call you in the morning," read one of his text messages.
 
 However, he did speak with a few other journalists, as reported by PTI: "The content was posted accidentally when my phone hanged while switching off, I guess. At that time, I was travelling by flight. I apologise for the incident. It was not intentional."
 
 Vishwanath Patil, legislator and BJP rural president for Belagavi, said he has not been able to speak with   after the WhatsApp fiasco but also added that it was very unbecoming of him to do something like that.
 
 BJP Belagavi Mahanagar unit president Rajendra Harkuni claimed he had not been able to contact Kavatagimath either, but suspected that there could be some mischief involved in the incident.
 
 "We have not received any complaint in connection with the incident. The group admin can always lodge a complaint," said BR Ravikanthe Goda, Police Superintendent, Belagavi district.
 
 "He is a very active and decent politician. WhatsApp is very scary. First of all, politicians like us get 200 messages per day and it drains our phone battery. Plus, 'yeh aaj kal lafdey waali cheez hai' (it's a trouble-maker these days. So I stopped using WhatsApp," he added.
 
 So far, there is no official complaint registered with Belagavi district police in connection with the incident. Belagavi Rural SP Ravindra Gadadi told BM that nobody has filed a complaint as on late Wednesday night. He also added that if someone files a complaint usually the provisions IT act and circulating objectionable material on public platform could be invoked against the sender. The IT state of Karnataka has a line of politicians who suffered public humiliation courtesy mistimed porn clips popping up on their social media accounts. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Tanveer Sait got into trouble after a TV channel camera caught him sifting through pictures of semi-clad women on his mobile phone during a government function in November 2016. In 2012, two BJP ministers — Laxman Savdi and CC Patil —were caught watching alleged porn clips on the floor of the legislative assembly.
 
