NAGPUR: National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) said on Wednesday that the name ‘Kishenji’ mentioned in social science textbook   for class X was not a reference to the Naxal leader but to Kishen Patnaik , former Praja Socialist Party (PSP) MP from the Sambalpur Lok Sabha seat.

  NCERT’s statement came a day after Nagpur-based Bhumkal Sanghatan, an anti-Naxalite organization which works with tribals in Gadchiroli district, had alleged that the book’s chapter six had an entire page dedicated to ‘Kishenji’, which amounted to glorifying the Naxal ideology. However, Naxal leader   was killed by a CoBRA battalion in an encounter near the Bengal-Jharkhand border on November 24, 2011 while the book was printed much before - in March 2007. The last reprint was in January this year and no changes were made since March 2007.
 
  NCERT has added that the content given on page 76 will be reviewed before the next reprint. Referring to the conversation in the chapter ‘A Moral Force in Politics’ between four women, the NCERT said the entire discussion takes place in the context of democratic reforms through constitutional means and added that no reference was made to any Naxal leader. NCERT said it appeared that the name Kishenji “created misunderstanding”.
 
  "Indeed, the inspiration behind this narrative was Shri Kishen Patnaik (1930-2004), who was elected as a Member of Parliament from Sambalpur, Odisha in 1962. However, the content given on page 76 will be reviewed before the next reprint edition," NCERT spokesperson Hemant Kumar said. He added that the reference to the former MP in the book was taken from an article by Anil Saari Arora,“In memoriam, Kishen Patnaik: protagonist of India’s alternate tradition."
 
  Bhumkal Sanghatan had assumed that the Kishenji mentioned in the book was a Naxalite as there were references to people’s movement and work in rural areas.
 
  The fictional characters of four women are identified as those working with the people’s movement in rural parts of the country and were assumed by the Sanghatan to be associated with Naxalites. Datta Shirke, secretary of the organisation, told TOI before NCERT issued the statement that such topics must not be allowed in school textbooks.
 
  Strangely, the particular page does not mention the full name of Patnaik nor does it identify him as a former MP.
 
