Mumbai: The   Trust on Thursday petitioned the  , seeking clarification on its July 11 order, on razing of   near   Dargah. On Thursday itself, the city collector’s office demolished 25 unauthorised stalls on the approach road of the dargah.

 “We have petitioned the   to seek clarification on its Tuesday order. Kinara Masjid is not illegal and if a part of the structure is extended, it is on reclaimed land which can be legalized. Our plea for seeking clarification will come up for hearing on Friday,” said Haji Ali Dargah’s trustee Sohail Khandwani. The trust claims even if a portion of the mosque extends to the approach road, it is on a reclaimed land which can be regularized as it is pre-2009 religious structure. 
 
 Meanwhile, the city collector’s office, with the help of the  , removed 25 illegal stalls from the approach road to the dargah on Thursday. “We have demolished around 25 stalls while remaining stalls will get demolished in a day or two. The action is yet to be completed. The collector’s office will submit its compliance report to the court once all the encroachments on the Haji Ali Dargah approach road have been cleared,” said a senior official from the collector’s office, requesting anonymity.
 
 A civic official said five teams of around 200 workers, three porcelain machines, five JCBs, 10 trucks, three breakers and gas cutters were used to demolish the illegal stalls. The demolition began at 7am and went on till 2.30pm. 
 
 On July 11 the state government, through additional advocate-general Nishant Katneswarkar, had requested a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice D Y Chandrachud to exempt Kinara Masjid from the demolition, as ordered by the SC on July 3. The Bombay High Court had ordered the removal of all encroachments on the approach road to the Haji Ali Dargah. 
 
 Upholding the HC order on demolition of all encroachments on the approach road, the SC had earlier directed the state and BMC to draw up a beautification plan for the Haji Ali Dargah approach road. "Get the encroachments removed. We will make a beautiful approach road to the holy shrine. We know what a sacred place it is. But, at present, it is surrounded by filth. The trust has to help in removing the encroachment,” the CJI-headed bench had said.
 
