Hyderabad: Students trudging to school, bent under the crushing burden of their   – this ubiquitous image is all set to be a thing of the past with the   government issuing a GO laying down stringent guidelines to considerably lighten the school bag load of kids in primary, upper primary and high schools under the state board.

 The result: The school bag of the average Class X kid, which currently weighs about 17 kg, will soon have to weigh not more than 5 kg.
 
 Clearly prescribing the maximum weight a student of a particular class in state board schools should carry, the GO MS No 22 issued by the department of school education on Tuesday, states that the weight of the bag, including textbooks, notebooks and the empty school bag, should not exceed 1.5 kg for class I and II students, must be below 3 kg for classes III to V, less than 4 kg for VI and VII classes, not more than 4.5kg for students of classes VIII and IX and a maximum of 5kg for Class X students.
 
 “The heavy load is caused by the fact that the children bring textbooks, guides, homework notebooks, rough work notebooks etc., to the classroom every day. Therefore, clear guidelines of what to bring to school is required. A survey on the school bag load was taken up in some of the districts and based on the survey, an exercise has been taken up to arrive at the proper load of the school bags and a policy on home work and assignments,” the GO read.
 
 “While the load of a school bag, as estimated in some of the districts, weighs about 6 to 12 kg at the primary level and 12 to 17 kg at the high school level, it has a severe, adverse physical effect on growing children. It can damage their vertebral column, knees and can also cause anxiety disorders,” the order said.
 
 The DSE has also directed schools to inform the students in advance about the books and notebooks to be brought to school on a particular day and asked them to educate students and parents regarding the appropriate school bags to be used.
 
 It has also asked schools to provide safe drinking water to relieve students of the extra burden of carrying water bottles.
 
 “Games and sports must be encouraged in the evenings rather than engaging children again only in tuitions and homework. Recreation and physical activity is a must for a growing child and it is the right of the children,” the government said.
 
 
