HYDERABAD: The number of women who succumb to   across Hyderabad and   is 60% more than men. 

 On an average, three women patients are admitted every day to hospitals across the city and districts for burns. While 80% of them die, the figure for men is much lower at 20%, according to a national study initiated by the deputy British High Commissioner in Chennai. 
 
 As many as 10,000 burn cases were registered in the state over the past decade and 7,000 people died, the report published on Wednesday said.
 
 Accident,   were the reasons (both among men and women) for burns accounting for 57%, 42% and 0.6% of all cases respectively. Reasons were not cited for 0.4% cases.
 
 In suicide cases, women account for 60% cases. Most women who succumbed to injury were in the age group of 15-35 and all of them were incidentally married. 
 
 The study also found that most district and area hospitals were not equipped to handle burn injuries. Most survivors lose the first six hours of treatment just in transit to Hyderabad. In a case that proves how hospitals, especially those outside the city, are not prepared to handle burns injuries, the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Warangal, despite having burns wards suffers from a lack of staff.
 
 The study also said that most private hospitals don’t have burn wards and are reluctant to take patients. 
 
 “It is sad that women are not be in a position to speak about their domestic condition. The support system is not enough in South Asia. Even though the United Nations Organisation (UNO) workforce is mostly filled with Indians, many experts tell us the support systems are weak in India,” Dr Mohan Krishna, former head of a plastic surgery department, Gandhi Hospital, said.
 
 Activists said that the problems of   can be addressed with better coordination. “Most women don’t know that they can avail some financial support from the compensation fund under GO No 9. There should be links established between organisations, private players and the government,” B Girija, who is part of the study team, said.
 
 The study says that a majority of burns cases are registered as ‘accidents’ in police records though the doctors are aware that it is an attempt at suicide or there is a homicide angle to the case.
 
 Experts say that while a large number of women are admitted every month with burn wounds, the state does not have a comprehensive programme to address their needs. Doctors too said there is a need for holistic burn case support services, including psychosocial intervention. They agreed that a lot of steps need to be taken in terms of post-discharge physiotherapy, wound care and reintegration into the society, the report said.
 
 Activists link the number of burns injuries to domestic violence and say many cases are undermined as women don’t speak up during interrogation.
 
 
