NEW DELHI: Banned insurgent group, United Liberation Front of   ( ), has presently a strength of 400 cadres most of whom have taken shelter in Myanmar, said a chargesheet filed by the   against the outfit.

 The chargesheet, filed to initiate extradition proceedings against the outfit’s chairman Dr   from the UK, also states that Ulfa is engaged in a “massive recruitment drive in the rural areas of Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Sivasagar, Lakhimpur and Nalbari districts of Assam”.
 
 The   has gathered strong evidence against Ulfa leaders, including Mukul Hazarika alias Abhijit Asom, who regularly travelled to camps in Myanmar from London. The evidence was gathered by questioning several cadres who have seen Hazarika and identifying him through the pictures and technical evidence collected from the US on the activities of its ‘commander-in-chief ’ Paresh Baruah.
 
 Sources said as soon as the chargesheet is taken into account by the court, a non-bailable warrant would be issued against Hazarika and Interpol would be approached for issuing a red corner notice against him before a formal extradition request is sent to the UK authorities. “We plan to complete all these activities in the next six months and hope to bring Hazarika to India soon,” said a source in NIA.
 
 The source said Hazarika, seen as an ideologue by Ulfa cadres, used to approach the United Nations in the past seeking a sovereign Assam state separate from India and he has also been in touch with organisations in China.
 
 NIA chargesheet says that Hazarika has been staying in London for the past 15 years and runs Ulfa’s operations from there.
 
 It says Hazarika holds a British passport (No 801253196) and is presently residing at Elton House, Stockton-On-Trees Cleveland, TS211AG. A request under the mutual legal assistance treaty with the UK is already being sent by the NIA.
 
 “Hazarika, Paresh Baruah and Ulfa cadres have been involved in terrorist activities and have killed several security personnel and innocent civilians over the years. They even created trouble in last two local elections in Assam by using force to intimidate activists and supporters of then ruling parties (Congress and Asom Gana Parishad),” said a senior NIA official, who has been tracking the activities of NE-based insurgent groups for past 20 years.
 
 Baruah has been convicted by the Bangladesh government but NIA chargesheet says Ulfa still maintains some camps there.
 
 NIA chargesheet says Ulfa maintains close ties with other insurgent groups like NDFB, KLO and NSCN (Khaplang).
 
