BHUBANESWAR: In another hi-tech move, the   (BPTSL) has decided to monitor the movement of city buses through   called   (VTS). 

 This will help both passengers and BPTSL, which runs the city buses to get real-time data of the buses itinerary. 
 
 BPTSL sources said a tender has been floated to hire a private party for installation of the devices.
 
  The GPS devices will have a sensor (chip) attached to it so that it transmits the data to the central server with exact location. The GPS will help send location inputs. 
 
 The GPS-enabled bus tracker has two-pronged use. One, it will help the agency to know the status of buses stoppages, speed at which it is moving, whether it stops at undesirable location other than that has been fed in the system and whether the bus plies on the planned routes or changes the routes. 
 
 This will help identify the grey areas and improve the bus service further, said a top officer of BPTSL.
 
 The second objective of installing the tracker device is to integrate it with an App that is being planned to help passengers know the running status of buses, time and schedule. 
 
 Like in the taxi-on-call service, the GPS-enabled location in android mobile phones help the commuters know the running status of the cab, the new app to be designed for city buses will help the citizens know which routes the bus is coming and when it will reach the pick-up location, said the officer.
 
 Another feature the GPS-enabled tracker will facilitate is alerting the control room in case of emergency situation like road blockade, traffic jam and bus catching fire. 
 
 The driver can press the red button, which will pass information to the control room alerting them of the emergency situation. The control room then will issue advisory to the drive for the next move. 
 
 BPTSL sources said after successful implementation of the tracker in 100 buses, the facility will be made available in other buses. 
 
 The city plans to have 500 more buses of different variants. 
 
 The BPTSL will start procuring the new buses from October. A transport consultant will be hired to conduct a survey to find out the routes and the type of buses. 
 
