Twenty-five years, 15 film albums, innumerable chartbusters...   and AR   are arguably the greatest director-composer duo of our time. Ahead of the release of their latest offering,  , produced by Madras Talkies and released by Sri Thenandal Films – Murali Ramasamy, the celebrated duo takes a walk down memory lane with Chennai Times, talking about everything… from the moment when Mani Ratnam heard Rahman’s music for the first time to how their composing sessions are today. Read on…

 
 : When you listen to music, you listen to music. You like it very much or not. For me, his music was just amazing. It took me out from where I was sitting and transported me to a different world.
 
 Not everyone gets a Mani Ratnam movie for their first film. So, imagine how cool it must have been for me!
 
  And not everyone gets AR Rahman’s first film, too! (laughs)
 
 
 I had a lot of pressure. He was very kind, but outside, they were all looking at me like, ‘What! You, composing for a Mani Ratnam film? What are you gonna do?’ I wouldn’t play the songs to everyone, but some people would come and listen. There was this gentleman who supplied music equipment. He had helped me get all my equipment. So, he came and listened, and he was silent. After a while, he asked, ‘What have you done? This is a disaster. Where’s the tabla? Where’s the violin? They are what make a song. Not this stuff.’ I was really concerned and told Mani Ratnam ‘I’m going to add tabla and violin’, and he told me, ‘Don’t do anything. This is perfect.’
 
 
  No. I looked at it as a director. And a director is a very selfish person. His first priority is his film. The film was called Roja, it was set in Kashmir and the music that he played had the feel of that winter — that cold of that place. So, I was not worried if somebody would get it. I was getting it. Also, I thought it was absolutely fantastic and it was just going to lift my visuals.
 
  I remember he came to my mother and said, ‘I’m doing a movie with your son now. If this doesn’t work out, I’ll do another movie with him.’ He didn’t really have to say that. 
 
 
  I think Roja’s success made us work really, really hard. We were kind of masochists, and we were destroying ourselves. Vairamuthu sir, in fact, said, ‘Anybody else would have died living up to what we did with Roja’. We were pushing ourselves and I think that’s why it still stands the test of time.
 
  It was an experimental album, but we didn’t think of it that way then. Still, Rahman was trying everything. The film was a wild film, so he could go that expansive in the music. It was just the chance for us to open up a lot more.
 
 
  I think it comes naturally from the script — the setting, the characters. So, that itself decides this. But of course, he has his unique vision, so he picks the right tune. This way, half my job is done. I’m a big fan of MGR and that era of music. So, I went into that zone a bit for Iruvar.
 
  We tried to do one kind of song for each of the decades in that film. What I felt was that the music should give a feel of that period and should not have only the same instruments or same voices or the same recording that were used then. It should evoke that period, but I should still be able to listen to it today. It should connect to me. The album was an interpretation of what people heard in those eras.
 
  Narumugaiye did that. It had some instruments that were not of that period.
 
 
  It is one of the most torturous things. He was already a celebrated director and had a fan following while we were doing Roja. I was new. We didn’t even know that the music was going to work in Hindi, but it was so big in Hindi as well. So, the next movie, Bombay was such a challenge. This is one of the reasons why we settle for phonetics … Humma Humma or Chaiyya Chaiyya, they are all phonetics in a way, and so we can get away with not being region-specific. It was a formal challenge.
 
 
 I like songs. It’s a weakness that I have. A song is a burden that you carry happily. When you have a song, it is like a mini-film within a film. It has a wholesomeness within itself. And sometimes, the song is so good that it stands out more than the film. You know that it is bigger than the film, but still you are greedy and try to fit it in as much as you can. It’s your love for it that matters.
 
  That’s true. If you don’t get a great song, your belief in the song is gone, and you try to cut it down. Unless you or the director believes in it, a song is not going to work. If he doesn’t completely like a song, he is not going to picturise it very well.
 
 
 For me, every film a new film; for him, it’s a fresh one. I struggle, but he is a master.
 
  Actually, after a while, we didn’t even realise the pressure at all. It was like, ‘We’re just doing a movie’. The pressure is from people who keep asking you questions like, ‘What are you going to do this time with Mani Ratnam?’, ‘What’s going to happen?’, ‘Who are all going to be in it?’ and so on. Even when we do a film in Hindi, there’s this pressure. But that’s good. When people expect something, you think, ‘Oh my god! This is so important’, and you also raise your level.
 
 
 : We don’t. We keep it mind, but it remains at the subconscious level. You know that when you watch films or listen to the music, you expect certain things. That’s how people are. So, use it your advantage. Whatever you have done, you have done your best. And do what is right. Luckily for us, in our work, we have the next story, which kind of dictates the requirements. So, within that, we try to do what we can do best — what is right for it. Still, you are aware of what people expect at a subconscious level in your mind. And you think of ways to go beyond that.
 
 
  Anywhere. Sometimes, he doesn’t even tell me the story.
 
  Yes, these days, I don’t.
 
  He will ask me to play the tunes and say, ‘I like this tune, this one, and this one’ and pick them up.
 
 
 : Not exactly. I have a melody element that reflects feelings… like love, passion and so on. I keep sending him ideas whenever I get them and ask him to check them out.
 Is there any song in Kaatru Veliyidai that happened this way… where he did not narrate the situation but just picked up the tune?
 
  Nallai Illai and Vaan Varuvaan were chosen like that.
 
 
 : It’s not about him liking a tune. When I compose something, I have to like it first. I have to be proud of it and feel, ‘Ah, this is beautiful’ or ‘This chord progression is nice’… If it emotionally moves me, then I’m sure that he will like it as well. Sometimes, he might not like it, too. For instance, my favourite was Nenjukkulle (Kadal) while his favourite was Moongil Thottam. Both the tunes had the same tempo and were on accordion. And the lyrics for both were extraordinary. Finally, we ended up using both.
 
 
  I think we used to hang out more. I miss going to Maldives or to Bangalore for such sessions.
 
 Today, Rahman travels all over the world, but that doesn’t stop us. He still sends me tunes whether he is here or abroad through Skype.
 
 
  I think music has a way of crossing everything.
 
  Yes, music is all about conveying something. But for background scores, we need to be face-to-face, as the momentum is much better then. For lyrics, again, we have to sit together and discuss, which is what is beautiful about the process.
 
 
  We will show it to you on Periscope once (laughs). Actually, it is both fun and stressful.
 
 
  With him, you know how it is… When he is doing a movie, and if you talk something other than the subject, he’ll just say, ‘I don’t care what you are talking about. Is it related to my movie?’ So, I wander around, but he is very focused.
 
 : I think that’s good to wander once in a while because Rahman gets some random ideas and they work very well. When the three of us sit together, you can really feel the synergy.
 
 
 : The two of you should want to reach for something higher. It is not about settling for the first thing that comes but finding what will be apt for a situation. I’m not saying that every song has to be an all-time hit or the greatest ever music. That’s not what you should set out to do. But you have to find out what will work best for a particular story or theme or backdrop, and discuss how not to make it a cliché or fall into such traps. That’s how we have make ourselves reinvent. Rahman does it all the time by taking a drastically different route, so it brings in freshness.
 
 
 There have always been such directors and composers from all over the world. KV Mahadevan and K Viswanath, that’s one combination. MSV-Balachander… Bharathirajaa-Ilaiyaraaja is a fantastic combination… Mahendran-Ilaiyaraaja, and even what Gulzar did with RD Burman.
 
 
  You have your movie to make. Why do you have to unnecessarily fight with them? That’s all the music that you have enjoyed, that you have grown up with… it’s all inside you. Don’t think about it and just do the best you can.
 
 Yes, the respect is already there inside you.
 
 
  I think it’s his aura. It forces you to push yourself. Suppose I’m in a room with four great musicians and I sit with my headphones to compose… My whole attitude will be like ‘Oh, they are watching me’. I feel the aura of them looking at me, their musicality… Even in a concert, we play better when we have an audience who are greatly educated in music. You start doing different things. The same way, when you are working with a director like Mani Ratnam who has such a legacy, you come up with some great ideas just to get his appreciation.
 
 
 By talking about it. It’s just that Rahman knows that it’s not about him and when I say something is not nice, he understands that what I’m talking about is that something will not work for the situation that I have in the film.
 
  He has been working only with me for 25 years. And I have been working with other people. So, if he doesn’t feel satisfied, it only means that I did not make him happy.
 
 
 
