CHENNAI:   interim general secretary VK   on Saturday hinted at a possible reprisal as she feels her efforts to 
  are being thwarted. 

 "We thought we will be fair and democratic. We have been patient. We can be patient only for a while. Otherwise, we will unite and do what we must," she said while addressing her supporters at the 
  of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, where she lives.
 
 Sasikala said it remained to be seen what tactics she would employ as her patience wears thin. "Amma has left 1.5 crore members with me. As long as they are there nothing can be done to me. You are everything to me. Amma has left us with the belief that I will protect the party."
 
 The leader also invoked the leader of the party's founder M G Ramachandran. "After our leader, Amma has run the party despite all the hurdles and difficulties she faced. Today, AIADMK is India’s third largest party. Amma is with us showing us the betrayers of our party. Like her, we are also facing trouble. I know I have the support of 1.5 crore people, nobody can separate us. Whoever tries to do that will be defeated. I have so many supporters I’m not scared of anything," she said.
 
 Apart from appealing to cadres, Sasikala has also sent a letter to Tamil Nadu Governor C Vidyasagar Rao, seeking an appointment with him on Saturday, along with all MLAs who have extended their support to her, regarding a future course of action to form the government.
  
 Sasikala said it had been seven long days since 
  and Rao accepted it. “Taking the urgency of the situation at hand, I would like to seek an appointment with you by today along with all MLAs who extended their support to me,” she said in a letter.
  
 “I believe you will act immediately to save the sovereignty of the constitution, democracy and the interest of the state,” she said.
  
 The close aide of Jayalalithaa recalled her previous letters on February 5 and 7, seeking the Governor’s appointment to hand over personally the letter regarding the legislature party electing her as their leader, along with a resolution passed in the party legislator’s meeting held on February 5.
  
  “You were pleased to meet myself along with senior ministers at about 7.30pm on February 9 and I submitted my elaborate presentation to invite me to form the government as I have absolute majority,” she said, adding that original letter and true copy of the resolution were also handed over to him (Governor).
 
 
