Panaji: The government on Monday ordered the   of 15 junior scale officers of the Goa Civil Service with immediate effect on the recommendations of the Goa Services Board. All officers are expected to complete the process of handing over and taking over their posts within three days from the issuance of the order.

 Deputy director of panchayats (South) Ajay Gaude, has been posted as deputy director II of Goa Medical College, relieving Triveni Velip of additional charge. Snehal Prabhu, deputy collector and sub-divisional officer (SDO) II, Salcete, will succeed Gaude as deputy director, panchayats (South). 
 
 Paresh Fal Desai, deputy collector and SDO, Ponda, will hold Prabhu’s post of deputy collector and SDO II, Salcete, and take additional charge of the post of SLAO, water resources department, Gogol, relieving Florina Colaco of additional charge. 
 
 Triveni Paik Velip, deputy director-II (administration), GMC, has been transferred as deputy collector (elections) North-I, and Sudhir Kerkar, deputy director of panchayats (North), as deputy collector and SDO Pernem. Kerkar will hold additional charge as SLAO, Tillari project. Harish Adconkar, deputy collector, Pernem, has been transferred as deputy collector-SDO, Bicholim, while Mahadev Araudekar, deputy collector, Bicholim has been transferred as deputy collector, SDO, Mormugao. He will hold additional charge as member secretary, Ravindra Bhavan, Baina, and secretary of the comunidade commission.
 
 Gaurish Shankwalkar, deputy collector, Mormugao, will hold the post of deputy collector-I and SDO, Bardez, replacing Chandrakant Shetkar.
 
 Shetkar will now hold the post of deputy director of panchayats (North) and additional charge as deputy registrar, polytechnic, relieving R K Harlarnkar of additional charge.
 
 Trupti Manerkar, undersecretary-l (law-estt and deputy collector, DRO (North), will now hold the post of undersecretary (health-I), with additional charge as undersecretary (handicrafts, textiles and coir).
 
 Sangeeta Naik, assistant chief electoral officer, has been transferred as undersecretary-II (personnel), replacing Shashank Thakur, who will now hold the post of undersecretary I, (personnel). Thakur will continue to hold additional charge of the post of member secretary, Goa Marathi Academy and deputy director (administration) DoIT.
 
 Smita Hede, undersecretary (HT & C) and undersecretary (health-I) has been transferred as deputy director, Apna Ghar, relieving Fransquinha Oliveira of additional charge. Anju Kerkar undersecretary (revenue II), will now hold the post of undersecretary (law-estt).
 
 Vishal Kundaikar, mamlatdar, Salcete, has been transferred as undersecretary, Goa State Information Commission, relieving Dashrath Redkar of additional charge. Kundaikar will continue to hold charge as mamlatdar, Salcete.
 
 Clen Madeira, chief officer, Mapusa Municipal Council, will hold additional charge as deputy collector-II, Mapusa, while Navnath Naik, chief officer, Ponda Municipal Council, who holds additional charge of Rajiv Gandhi Kala Mandir, Ponda, will hold additional charge as deputy collector and SDO, Ponda. 
 
 Sudin Natu, undersecretary (revenue-I) will hold additional charge as undersecretary (revenue-II). Shashikant Bhamaikar, deputy director (administration), women and child development, will hold additional charge as undersecretary, GSHRC, relieving Darshana Narulkar of additional charge. Sushma Kamat, undersecretary (finance, exp), will hold additional charge as undersecretary (finance, R&C), relieving Pawaskar of additional charge, from June 16. Geeta Nagvekar, undersecretary to minister of WRD, will hold additional charge as deputy director, WRD. Prasad Volvoikar, deputy registrar of cooperative societies, will hold additional charge as deputy director, DFDA, relieving Florina Colaco of additional charge. Gurudas Desai, deputy collector, revenue, will hold additional charge as deputy collector, relieving P D Halarnkar of additional charge.
 
 Roshell Fernandes, deputy collector (South), will hold additional charge as administrative officer, Hospicio, reliving Pandharinath Naik of additional charge. The appointment of Vishal Kundaikar will be governed by deputation.
 
 
