Everything that celebrity entrepreneur   is associated with, or even starts off, invariably ends up making the news — be it a worldwide online payments system, a futuristic rockets manufacturing company or a revolutionary electric car company. A similar venture that he proposed was the ambitious   project — a mode of passenger transportation that propels a pod-like vehicle through a near-vacuum tube at an average speed of 1,000 kmph. Since its announcement in August 2013, the open-source project has been put into action by a Los Angeles-based startup, has set up a test track six feet in diameter and one mile in length in Hawthorne, California and even completed test trials in Texas.

 But what’s interesting about the project, is that most of the proposed Hyperloop routes are being planned currently are outside of the US, and very recently the company have approached the   with a Letter of Intent for a proposed route between Chennai and Bengaluru — a distance of 345 km that could be covered in just 30 minutes!
 
 
 From the onset, the technology promises to transport people at a very affordable price, charging for the time taken instead. In addition to the new technology, the company also plans to install solar panels on top of the tubes and windmills on the pillars to make the most of natural, sustainable energy, in reduce operational cost. The pod will use magnetic levitation to move, with propulsion energy required only at the start of the journey, for it can glide for more than 300 kilometres once it touches top speed.
 
 
 
 While the project in India seems futuristic and lucrative, when it comes to actual implementation, it is going to be challenging, especially on three fronts — geography, cost and red tape. 
 
 For the pods to travel at such high speeds, the tubes require to be built in one straight line, and the Indian terrain poses a big problem in that regard. Given that the Indian cities such as Chennai, with its coastal plains, and Bengaluru, on the  , have diverse geographies, building a direct route will offer a variety of complex challenges.
 
 According to sources, building one kilometre of the line will cost the company a whopping `300 crore. While, the company says it can get it done in `72 crore for kilometer of the line, maintaining low cost and profitability in a country like ours will be a tall task
 
 To get many levels of governmental approvals for such a futuristic concept is bound to take time, considering there is no regulatory body for such a new technology. Also, the proposed routes are also the same that high-speed bullet trains are currently being considered.
 
 Hyperloop will definitely change the way travel, but will it become a reality in India? Only time will tell.
 
 
 
 
 * Average speed of 1,000 kmph, top speed of 1,200 kmph
 * Travel pods will ‘float’ using magnetic levitation 
 * Overhead metal tunnels to be fixed with solar panels for power
 
 
 
 Road: 5-6 hours
 Train: 5 hours
 Flight: 1 hour
 Hyperloop: 30 minutes
 
