BENGALURU: With demonetisation, drought and a general  ,   has decided not to revise   for the coming  .

 “As far as revision of guidance value is concerned, it's status quo this year,“ said Bhojya Naik, deputy inspector general of registration, the stamps and registration department. According to officials, there has been a 30% downfall in the registration of properties in the state after demonetisation. Other factors, too, are at play in the tardy registration of properties.
 
 The revenue target from stamps and registration had been fixed at Rs 9,100 crore for 2016-17, but the shortfall could be at least Rs 1,000 crore. To make good the loss in the next year, the government has decided against revision of guidance value. Last year, the government had increased the value by 10-40%.
 
 The unchanged guidance values are believed to prevent prices from rising, which might lead to increased interest from otherwise-wary homebuyers. The move has cheered all stakeholders as they anticipate a change in buyer sentiments.
 
 “Bengaluru has long been plagued by unsold inventory. It has close to a lakh housing units still unsold. Demonetisation, drought and acute water scarcity have resulted in weak consumer sentiments. Hence, a dip in sales. A hike in guidance value would further dampen the market,“ said a land developer who did not want to be identified.
 
 Bhojya Naik said the draft notification listing out the guidance values of properties in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagara districts for the year 2017-18 are ready and may be published by Monday. “As many as 15 days will be given to the public to file objections and suggestions. The guidance value in 95% of Bengaluru areas is likely to remain the same. The remaining 5% will be new pockets where guidance value has not been fixed," he added.
 
 With the government deciding not to change the guidance value, experts are anticipating an improvement in sale volumes. “We had urged the government to reduce the guidance value to boost the realty sector. But not hiking rates is a positive step since a majority of homebuyers are looking for affordable homes. Price stagnancy brought by unchanged guidance value would help instill confidence among investors. This could be a good time to buy property in Bengaluru, especially for end-users," said Suresh Hari, secretary, Credai.
 
