NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of   comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and AS Chandurkar on Thursday issued notices on a PIL to the state government against its decision to hand over 200 sq km rich tiger bearing forest to   (FDCM), which is engaged in commercial extraction of timber. 

  The PIL has been filed by Shahid Khan of Save Ecosystem & Tigers and Sustaining Environment (SEAT), a Bhandara-based NGO working for tiger conservation. An earlier writ petition filed by Bhandara Zilla Jangal Kamgar Sahakari Sanstha Sangh, on which a status quo was granted, has also been clubbed with the new PIL. Notices have also been issued to NTCA, MoEFCC, CCF (Nagpur), and Bhandara DyCF. 
 
 The government had on June 19, 2014, asked to hand over 200 sq km tiger rich area in Lendezari, Jamkandri and Nakadongri ranges of Bhandara to FDCM, to compensate loss of its forest area for new sanctuaries, which have been carved out as per Supreme Court orders.
 
 However, since there is stiff opposition from gram panchayats and wildlife conservationists, the area was not handed over to FDCM for last two years. Fresh move was initiated on November 9, 2016, when the government asked Bhandara DyCF to immediately transfer the said area to FDCM.
 
 TOI was the first to report repercussions of transfer of the said 200 sq km area, which falls in   tiger corridor. There is recorded presence of resident tigers in these ranges.
 
 The petitioners have claimed that the state has launched various eco-development schemes to protect forests with community participation. Many locals are getting self-employment by way of skill development initiatives. "Giving away forest to FDCM will spell doom as the corporation fells entire miscellaneous forest and plants teak. This will deprive locals of jobs and livelihood, and will also damage wildlife habitat," the PIL claims.
 
 The forest patches to be diverted to FDCM have also been included in the proposed tiger conservation plan (TCP) for corridors at Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR).
 
