NASHIK: A group of youngsters here has joined hands to take up the youth’s demands with the newly elected corporators. They want the elected representatives to meet the demands of the youngsters from across the city. 

 “Navi Mumbai organized entrepreneurship development camps and runs placement services for the youth. But there is no such activity here. Those who wish to enter business, there is no support from organisations or market forces. These and many other are the issues raised by the youngsters but remain unaddressed by the corporation. We have decided to come together and act as pressure group from Day One after the new corporators addume office,”  , general secretary of   and leader of the  , said.
 
 The group has decided to launch ‘an agenda of youth’, which will be presented to the elected representatives. Members of the group are meeting college students and catching up with friends and young businessmen, collecting their views and expectations from the civic body.
 
 “Once we prepare our agenda, we will hand it over to the elected representatives. The group will follow up the issue with the civic authorities. We will see that the house listens to us and initiates measures for the youth’s education, business opportunities and employment,” Kale added.
 
 Some of the major demands of the youngsters are better sports grounds and sports facilities. “Nashik has a big number of youngsters, but not much facilities to keep them healthy. The city should have a proper gymnasia, better playgrounds and cycle tracks,” Kale said.
 
 Another major demand if the group is libraries in the city. “Nashik has grown leaps and bounds, but the fact is that the libraries have not grown proportionately,” Kale said.
 
 The strategy of the organisation is to prepare a draft of the demands and submit it to the elected representatives in general and the young members in particular. The organisation will also present its copies to party presidents and seek solution from them.
 
 “This is being done so that the representatives and their parties would never have a chance to say that they did not have the list of demands,” Kale said.
 
