BATHINDA: The mother of murdered Dalit youth   has written to   and sessions judge S K Aggarwal to urge him to hand over the case of the killing of her son to another court and advise the court in which the   is going on to not fix any further date of hearing.

 In the letter sent on Monday, Kaushalya Devi said she was fearful that the court of additional sessions judge Lachhman Singh would not deliver justice in the case in which influential liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda and his nephew Amit Doda are key accused. Kaushalaya’s son Bhim Tank died after his legs and arms were chopped off at Shiv Lal’s farmhouse at Ramsara village near Abohar on December 11, 2015. Tank’s associate Gurjant Singh survived the attack allegedly carried out on Shiv Lal’s instructions by his “henchmen”, but lost a leg and an arm.
 
 Kaushalaya claimed that Shiv Lal was “highly influential” and alleged that his associates visited the court complex in Fazilka on the dates of hearing and would try to stop her from attending court. “Though I raised the matter before the court on February 9, my requests have gone unanswered. I want the case be transferred. Till then, no date of hearing should be fixed,” she said in the letter, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 The demand has come close on the heels of Gurjant’s brother Ranjit Rana, a key witness who took Bhim and Gurjant to the hospital on the day of the crime, turning hostile in the case during his appearance before the court on February 9. 
 
 Only on Sunday, Kaushalya had alleged that Shiv Lal and Amit were allowed to meet their associates in Fazilka sub-jail and able to influence witnesses in the case. After Bhim’s murder, the uncle-nephew duo surrendered before police in January 2016. She had claimed that Gurjant had turned hostile because of the Doda family’s influence.
 
 Shiv Lal and Amit are at present lodged in Amritsar jail. They were transferred to the jail after a raid on January 5 had found 25 of their associates illegally present on the premises of the prison and meeting the uncle-nephew duo. Their bail application is pending in the   for March 6.
 
 
