Just the other day, while parking his car outside Lake Mall,   grazed it. His friend,  , who was in a rush to catch Fast and Furious 8 at the plex, wrote on Twitter: #FastAndFurious8 but before we could even start watching the film @VikramChatterjee took it seriously'. Within minutes, Sonika Chauhan, a dear friend to both, shot back at them with `Not funny guys! Idiots, look after urselves'.Call this the grim irony of fate, but Sonika died in a car crash outside the same mall on Saturday morning in what primary reports suggest was a case of reckless driving. Behind the wheel was friend Vikram.

 Sonika's modelling career took off after she won a beauty pageant in 2010. Someone whose sole focus was work, it didn't take her long to make a name for herself. But Sonika wanted to explore her other talents and got into television anchoring for sports shows. A health freak, she was into sports, music, dance and travelling; she would even encourage everyone around her by posting dance and exercise photos/videos on social media. Those close to her knew her as a pet of her parents, Vijay and  .On a recent vacation in  , she wrote on social media: `Thank u mum & dad for yet another family holiday'.
 
  
  
 As Sonika shot to fame, her personal life too was speculated about. Until recently , she would openly profess her love for Shaheb Bhattacherjee. Though they were considered the `IT' couple of Kolkata, there were rumours of trouble in paradise in recent times. Sonika would often be photographed with Vikram and their friends suggest the two had grown close over the last couple of months.“Sonika used to inspire us to become health conscious. She used to set targets like 500 crunches a day on our WhatsApp group. I can't believe this,“ said Indrasish Roy . Years back, at a beauty pageant, Sonika was asked about a quote that left profound impact on her. “Nothing can stop what your destiny holds for you,“ she had said back then. No one had any idea that affirmation would come like it did.
 
 
 
 
 
