BAREILLY/PILIBHIT: Baba Brehspati Giri a priest at the famous Alakhnath temple here, filed his nomination on Friday as a candidate of Bharatiya Hind Ekta Party. He will contest polls from the   assembly seat. He had earlier contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2004 and lost. Friday was the last day for filing of papers for the second phase of the polls.
 
  Giri, who along with few other priests came to file his nomination, said he decided to contest due to pressure from his supporters. “After I had lost the Lok Sabha elections, I had no wish to enter election fray again. However, a large number of my followers who call on me every day at Alakhnath temple requested me numerous times to contest polls for their welfare. Due to their pressure, I decided to fight the polls again,” he told TOI.
  
  Asked why he chose to contest polls from Bithri Chainpur constituency rather than  , Giri said, “It was again the decision of my followers who are mostly based in Bithri. Though all politicians made tall claims before elections, none of them visited the constituency after winning the polls to see the deteriorating conditions. My priority will to provide good roads and will work for the development of the area.”
  
  Apart from Giri, a total of 81 nominations were filed in Bareilly on the last day of nomination. Sitting BJP MLA from Bareilly City seat Arun Kumar arrived at the collectorate on a scooter to file his nomination papers.
  
  A report from Pilibhit said as many as 25 candidates from various parties and independents filed their nominations on the closing day. Most of these candidates were of little known political parties. Notable among those who filed their papers are   from Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Usuf Malik from Rashtriya Kinas Majdoor Party (RKMP). They will be contesting from Pilibhit City seat. Three independent candidates also filed nominations for this seat. A total of 12 candidates are contesting from this seat.
  
  For Barkhera assembly seat in the district. a total of 15 candidates filed their nominations.   (SSP) candidate   and three independents candidates filed their nominations on Friday. A total of 15 nominations were filed at this seat.
  
  RLD’s Nagesh Pathak, SSP’s Dharmendra Kumar and Communist Party of India (CPI) candidate Bheem Sen filed their papers for Bisalpur assembly seat. The total figure of candidates has gone up to 10 here.
  
  For the fourth and last constituency in Pilibhit, Puranpur, a total of 10 candidates have filed nominations. These include two independents, a CPI (ML) candidate and an RLD candidate Aysha Begum who filed their nominations on Friday.
