NAGPUR: “Antonio Gramsci was an Italian Marxist theorist and politician, who attempted to break from the economic determinism of Marxist thought,” said Dilip Chavan, director of Marathwada University, Nanded, on Sunday.

 Chavan was speaking at the concluding function of a two-day talk on ‘Marxwadacha Bhashyakar — Antonio Gramsci’ during the Karl Marx memorial lecture series at Sevadal Mahila Mahavidyalaya Hall, Sakkardara Chowk. He said Gramsci’s ‘Prison Notebooks’ are considered a highly original contribution to 20th century political theory, and still relevant. Gramsci is popular for his theory of hegemony, which describes how the state and ruling capitalist class maintain dominance, added Chavan. He said the bourgeoisie, in Gramsci's view, develop a hegemonic culture using ideology rather than violence or economic force.
 
 Elaborating, Chavan said hegemony, domination by consent, was a concept used by Marxists such as Lenin to denote the political leadership of the working-class in a democratic revolution. 
 
 Gramsci has greatly expanded this concept, developing an acute analysis of how the ruling capitalist class, the bourgeoisie, establishes and maintains its control.
 
 Gramsci gave much thought to the role of intellectuals in society. In his pre-prison article entitled ‘The Revolution against Das Kapital’, Gramsci wrote that the October Revolution in Russia had revoked the idea that socialist revolution had to anticipate the development of capitalist forces, said Chavan. 
 
 Chavan also said that Gramsci’s ideology was organic, which means they come from the common people’s experience.
 
 Chavan added that people are not ready to understand the relevance of Gramsci’s thoughts. Civil society is the non-governmental organizations that manifest interests and will of citizens. It includes the family, referred to as the third sector of society, distinct from government and business, said Chavan. Gramsci drew insights from varying sources, not only other Marxists but also thinkers, Chavan added.
 
 Chavan emphasized mostly on Gramsci’s contribution towards cultural hegemony and his ideologies. Gramsci’s war of position and mobility was also discussed. Chavan also focused on Gramsci’s impact on academics and environmental movements.
 
