GURUGRAM: The health department on Saturday commenced this year’s last round of vaccination. The   aim to   and   against the eight deadly diseases in this round.
 
 The last round of phase IV of   started in Gurugram on Saturday. Chief medical officer Dr BK Rajora vaccinated a child at village Bhangrola. Under the drive, children, under the age of two years, will be vaccinated against eight deadly preventable diseases.
  
 Health department officials said they would conduct 103 sessions across the district during the  . Besides children, around 1,062 pregnant women too will be vaccinated in this round.
  
 The week-long immunization drive will cover vaccination against diseases like tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, hepatitis, diarrhoea due to rota virus, measles and haemophilus influenza type B.
  
 This year, the district officials faced challenges of vaccinating the children of the migrant population as they noticed that most of the labourers leave for work by 9am. As a result of which, their children were often either not or were partially vaccinated. 
 
 The slums were termed as high-risk areas and the vaccination drives were organised there from 7am to 9am. This was crucial in order to increase the number of fully immunized children in the district.
 
 Besides this, during the phase IV, voluneteer teams were involved who are conducting a survey of the areas where labourers and domestic maids live. These teams are conducting a physical verification of such people and conduct vaccination sessions there with the help of the health department.
  
 In the previous rounds this year, around 9,600 children, between the age of 0 to 2 years, have been vaccinated. Also, around 1,600 pregnant women have been vaccinated.
  
 "This year we were successful in spreading awareness among the educated class, including the uneducated one. However, we still feel challenges when it comes to the children in the migrant population. 
 
 There is no record of their immunization either as they are frequently on move to different destinations. As a result, they are unfortunate victims and   of these diseases and can circulate these in the other parts of society,” said Dr BK Rajora, chief medical officer, Gurugam.
 
