BAREILLY/AGRA: More than 2.6 crore electorates will seal the fate of as many as 839 candidates, including 77 women, contesting from 73 constituencies spread across 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh in the first phase of assembly elections on Saturday, the campaigning for which concluded Thursday evening.
 
  According to the   (EC) of 2.6 voters, nearly 1.43 crore are male, 1.18 crore female and 1,508 third gender, who will exercise their voting right at 26,823 polling stations.
  
  The Agra (south) seat has maximum 26 candidates, whereas there are only six candidates, the minimum, in the fray from Hastinapur (Meerut) reserved seat. Besides, on 21 seats more than one female contestants are trying their luck.
  
  In first phase, only Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have fielded their candidates on all the 73 seats, while alliance partners   (SP) and Congress have fielded 51 and 24 contestants, respectively. Interestingly, on two seats, including Gangoh (Saharanpur), SP and Congress candidates will have a face off.
  
  Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which is considered as strongly placed in western UP due to its stronghold over Jat voters, is contesting on 57 seats, while Left parties —   (CPI) and CPI (M) — have fielded five and four candidates, respectively.
  Moreover, there are 291 Independents and 261 candidates of registered but unrecognised political parties in the fray.
  
  Among 73 constituencies, Sahibabad (Ghaziabad) has maximum number of electorates, while Jalesar is the smallest constituency electorate wise.
  
  In western UP, over a dozen of constituencies have high profile candidates fielded by different parties. In riots-affected Muzaffarnagar, the fight is between Kapil Dev (BJP) and Gaurav Swarup (SP) on the City constituency seat. SP veteran Chittaranjan Swaroop had won the seat in 2012, but BJP’s Kapil Dev captured it in the bypoll following the former’s death.
  
  In neighbouring Saharanpur’s Nakud seat, two-time winner BJP’s Dharam Singh Saini, who won two elections in 2007 and 2012 on BSP tickets, will be defending his seat from his closest rival SP-Congress’ Imran Masood.
  
  The Kairana seat in Shamli district, the town which has been in news for alleged Hindu exodus, is witnessing a triangular contest between Mriganka Singh (BJP), daughter of seven-term MLA and incumbent BJP MP from Kairana Hukum Singh, her cousin Anil Chauhan (RLD) and Nahid Hasan (SP).
  
  Two another seats — Thana Bhawan and Sardhana — too are very crucial for BJP, where the saffron party has fielded riot-accused Suresh Rana and Sangeet Som, respectively. In Thana Bhawan, SP has fielded an academician, Lucknow University professor Sudhir Panwar, and Atul Pradhan in Sardhana, an Akhilesh Yadav loyalist.
  
  Meanwhile, the EC has made adequate arrangements to enforce complete ban on rallies and public meetings, and also constituted special teams for monitoring. However, polling parties will leave for election duty on Friday.
  
  In Agra district, there are 121 candidates, 16 female, in the fray, while maximum number of 26 candidates are contesting from the Agra (south) constituency, where the administration will be interconnecting   (EVM) to accommodate all the 26 options.
  
  The last day of campaigning before the first phase saw candidates going full throttle in their respective constituencies holding back to back roadshows, rallies and public meetings.
  However, as soon as the dead line ended, the district administration swung into action, and ordered surveillance teams to keep tabs on poll code violation. However, after the deadline and intense campaigning, candidates took no rest and started attending indoor meetings.
  
  District magistrate Gaurav Dayal said, “The campaign time is over. Now, no political activity will be allowed in public. Besides, following EC’s directions special monitoring teams have been constituted and placed.”
  
  Various teams of flying squads are looking out for misuse of alcohol and money to influence voters and intelligence department officials are keeping tabs on political movements.
  
  In the meantime, parties are hopeful of putting up a good show in the first phase.
  Congress district president Dushyant Sharma said, “The Congress-SP combine will be making a clean sweep in the first phase.”
  
  BJP district president Shyam Bhadoria said, “The party has a vision for Uttar Pradesh’s development and welfare of people. BJP workers and senior leaders have made voters aware of it during campaigning. People have made their mind to form a BJP government in the state.”
  
  BSP district president Pramod Raina said, “People in the past five years have realised that only BSP supremo Mayawati is capable of leading the state. We have received support of all castes and religions during our campaign. People are with BSP and this is going to translate into votes on February 11.”
