NEW DELHI: Trying to escape the dogged Special Cell team on their tail, two drug traffickers carrying heroin and methamphetamine tried to jump off a flyover. One of them succeeded, but suffered grievous injuries. The other was held before he could take a leap.

 Following his desperate vault, Swarn Singh alias Lalli, 33, had to be admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he is currently under observation. The other man,  , 30, was caught by police and interrogated. Alongside Nigerian Chukwama  , a drug supplier, was also arrested.
 
 Singh had returned from Italy after a decade to lead the drug cartel owned by his brother, Gurcharan Singh, who was arrested by Special Cell in 2016 and is incarcerated in Tihar Jail. Swarn Singh and Sukhjeevan were based in Punjab, but often travelled to Delhi to collect heroin consignments sent by Celestine. The Nigerian allegedly procured heroin from Afghan nationals and forwarded them to countries like England, France, Italy, Canada, South Africa and Nigeria through courier companies.
 
 Sanjeev Yadav, DCP (Special Cell) confirmed the event on Saturday and said it was on one such visit to collect heroin and meth that the two men were accosted by the   at Peeragarhi around 4am. They managed to escape in the dark, but were chased by the police team after being detected in an autorickshaw going to Uttam Nagar. On the way, the duo got off the auto and had tried to leap off the flyover.
 
 Announcing that his team had recovered 985 grams of methamphetamine and 2 kg of fine heroin worth Rs 8 crore from the traffickers, DCP Yadav disclosed that inspectors Attar Singh and Jeetendra Tiwari had received inputs that this Punjab-based drug cartel would procure heroin from people of African origin in Delhi and the information was further developed by sub-inspector Parveen Rathee. The cops were tipped off that two members of the syndicate would come to the capital in a truck via GT Karnal Road, and they had kept discreet watch on the moving truck as it entered Delhi.
 
 The recovery of meth has stumped police as the drug has been seized only once, in 2014, in the last five years. This is the second recovery of heroin within a week. DCP Yadav’s team had seized 5kg of heroin worth Rs 20 crore on Monday. The team has so far busted seven drug groups and confiscated 32kg of heroin worth over Rs 120 crore in the international market.
 
