KOLKATA: Just like rating app-cab drivers ensures better services from the aggregator, Kolkata Police’s Karma-Meter app promises better public transport services based on commuter ratings. Launched on Wednesday, the app allows users to rate auto or bus drivers based on their performance, behaviour and compliance to   rules.

 Additionally, the Karma app allows sergeants to rate drivers and any offences registered against them will be visible on the it. A unique ID displayed behind the driver’s seat will grant users access to his details. The drivers, in turn, will be ranked according to the scores. While those at the top will get rewards, those lagging behind will have to undergo training at traffic guards. This, in turn, will allow traffic police a reckoner of driver behaviour and driving in the city.
 
 Launching the app, police commissioner Rajeev Kumar said it was time we realized that mere criticisms is not enough to reduce accidents. “We need concrete steps to bridge the gap where we can make drivers accountable instead of merely criticizing them,” he said.
 
 The senior cop acknowledged that the police too need to be more responsible to check accidents. He introduced a monthly competition to allow sergeants to compete for the honour of best cop. 
 
 Attending the Kolkata Jaaago Safe Drive Save Life function at the police training school on Wednesday, transport minister Subhendu Adhikari said: “We are going to make the process of issuing fitness certificates and driving licences transparent. In Howrah, we are launching a programme to bring the process under   surveillance. Other districts will follow suit.
 
 Adhikari promised to provide all help to the city police in installing more CCTV cameras. “I had kept my last promise and sanctioned funds for the last round of CCTV installation. I am willing to do so again once a proper plan is received on behalf of  .” The minister also announced the launch of a new driving syllabus that will come into effect from April 1. 
 
 Kolkata traffic police said it has plans to bring about 1.5 lakh drivers under the Karma app programme and reach out to about 2.5 lakh school students to inculcate safe driving practices. 
 
 
