DHANBAD: In a picture of contrasts, a madrassa in   of   in Topchanchi block has been running without  , while  's only government   in Hirapur, barely 500 m from the district headquarters, has   but cannot run  . 

 On one hand, while the madrassa has proven to be a boon for girls of the minority committee, the Sanskrit school is in a shambles with not even a single classroom. 
 
 The madrassa established in 1996, accommodates about 675 girls from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Nepal and other places and has been maintaining a record of 100% result for the last nine years.
 
 The director of the madrassa, Aftab Alam, said lodging and boarding fees depend on the economic status of parents which ranges from Rs 200 to Rs 1,000. Students from very poor families get free education. He added that the school runs on donations and student fees. "We have never received any government aid," he said. 
 
 The school was affiliated to the Jharkhand Academic Council in 2006. Though the school is located in a zone frequented by extremist groups, the rebels have never disturbed the school, said the director. 
 
 Narrating many success stories of the madrassa alumni, Alam said that apart from education, the madrassa committee stresses on moral education. Apart from Urdu and Arabic languages, compulsory for the students, English is also taught so that students can cope with studies in public schools after passing out. Other activities like sewing and embroidery are also taught to the girls.
 
 A well-stocked library, laboratory and computers keep students engaged in constructive learning at the school and hostels. 
 
 Special emphasis has been given to sanitation and hygiene as the school has ample toilets and bathrooms. Aftab, however, admitted there is a scarcity of beds. While the number of students is 600, the school has only 450 beds. "We are waiting for funds. The purchase of 150 more beds is our priority," he added.
 
 In contrast, the Rajkiya Sanskrit High School on the HE School premises, does not have a single room. The 69 students, who are enrolled in classes 8, 9 and 10, do not attend classes owing to the absence of classrooms. A dilapidated room serves as the office of the school. Incidentally, the district education officer has advised the principal not to use the room as it may collapse any time. 
 
 The school was established in 1960, but closed down in 2010 owing to low turnout of students. The school reopened in February 2013 with four rooms. 
 
 Later, when the building started developing cracks, the four rooms were closed down in 2014. Since then, students have not been able to attend classes. 
 
 Former officer in the Indian Army and principal, Gopal Krishna Jha, said they have submitted an application for the repair of the building to the DEO and a response in this regard is awaited. 
 
 Admitting that the students do not attend classes owing to scarcity of space, he said when examinations draw near, the students seek their help.
 
 The principal is the only academic staff who runs the school with the help of a clerk. "We have about Rs 7 lakh in school account. That's enough to build two rooms, but without the approval of the authorities concerned, the construction of the building cannot be initiated," he said.
 
 DEO Madhuri Kumari said, "A letter requesting funds for the school has already been forwarded to the education department." 
 
 She also said the principal should use the funds available with him to construct the classrooms as studies are suffering.
 
 
