BHUBANESWAR: Linking outcome of   with the government's failure to ensure seamless paddy purchase from farmers, several BJD MLAs targeted food supplies and consumer welfare minister   in the assembly on Saturday. 

 Though inside the house, the MLAs did not directly mention rural poll results while throwing verbal volleys at the minister on the paddy issue, outside the assembly BJD lawmaker   said irregularities in paddy procurement was a major factor for the party's debacle in many areas. In Mishra's native district of Kalahandi,   swept the poll by bagging 33 out of 36 zilla parishad seats while BJD got only one. "Problems in paddy purchase was certainly a major reason for the party's defeat in Kalahandi," Mishra told reporters.
 
 During question hour, when Das Burma was replying to a question raised by Kailash Chandra Kulesika of the Congress, the ruling party members raised supplementary cornering the minister. Mishra asked the minister regarding inordinate delay in buying paddy in Kalahandi. Farmers have to wait for months before their paddy is lifted from the market yards, he said.
 
 Pratap Jena of the BJD asked Das Burma for ordering an inquiry into nexus of millers with officials in paddy procurement delaying lifting of paddy from farmers, particularly in Kalahandi district. Stating that there was no need for any probe, the minister said, "I understand what is causing the pain." Though he did not elaborate, many perceived the minister hinted at Jena's pain because Jena was BJD's observer in Kalahandi where the BJD miserably lost to the BJP.
 
 Jena said the minister should not take things personally and try to provide relief to the farmers. Another senior BJD legislator, Ranendra Pratap Swain, said the minister should visit the different areas to know the ground realities, which is different from what the government says. "Farmers are unable to sell their hard-earned produce," he saiD.
 
 The minister said instead of blaming the government, the MLAs should themselves come forward and be part of the decision-making process for procurement at the district level. 
 
 
