New Delhi: Post-operative complications of a patient who suffered a cardiac arrest during the operation cannot be ignored, observed the   ( ) while directing that Rs 10 lakh be paid to the woman’s parents as compensation.

 Shakila, who had to undergo the surgery in a Chennai hospital due to severe back pain, survived the cardiac arrest, but died a few years later due to complications she had allegedly developed after the surgery.
 
 “The fact remains that the patient had to undergo a lot of suffering, pain, disabilities and psychological and neurological problems subsequent to the surgery, which admittedly could have risen on account of the cardiac arrest,” said M Shreesha, presiding member of the apex body.
 
  was hospitalised on October 9, 2003, a day before the surgery, and discharged on October 19. Shakila’s mother alleged that after the surgery, her daughter suffered from serious health issues and became bed-ridden. She had to take at least 20 medicines daily.
 
 She was again admitted to the hospital on November 10, 2003 but discharged after 10 days without any improvement. The redressal commission was also told that doctors at another hospital said her back surgery had been carried out in a negligent manner. Shakila eventually died in 2007 at 24.
 
 The hospital, where the surgery was performed, argued that the doctor treating Shakila was an independent consultant and, hence, no deficiency could be attributed to the hospital.
 
 The doctor, on the other hand, contented that the pros and cons of the surgery was explained to the patient and her family. They were not given any assurance that the surgery would result in a complete cure and the consent form that the complainant signed also had all information about the complications and risks, he said.
 
 He also claimed that the patient had a cardiac arrest during the surgery and was saved only by a timely intervention.
 
 The defendant also argued that the issue of cardiac arrest was not mentioned in the main complaint filed by the woman’s family. However, the commission said, “If the complainant has not specifically used the word ‘cardiac arrest’ in the complaint, it does not mean that it should not be considered.” 
 
 Referring to the fact that Shakila was a 24-year-old woman who was non-diabetic and non-hypertensive, NCDRC noted, “The reason for cardiac arrest was not explained by the respondents.” 
 
 In the entire treatment record, it pointed out, there was “absolutely no nexus” that could be attributed to the patient’s condition prior to the surgery and the cardiac arrest that she suffered in the operation theatre.
 
 The commission also dismissed the hospital’s contention it could not be made liable as the patient herself had contacted the independent consultant. “All three respondents jointly need to pay a reasonable lumpsum amount of Rs 10 lakh towards medical expenses incurred, the mental agony suffered, loss of life of the patient and also towards the loss of love and affection on account of the patient’s death,” the commission said.
 
