The latest episode of  , was packed with everything that the audience expected, barring one thing — the eviction itself. Overloaded with drama and emotions, the episode that was aired 
  night had NTR Jr at his humorous best as he enquired about the 14 contestants, who have barely spent a week together. Getting to see Tarak after long put a smile on their faces.

  
 Sampoornesh Babu aka Sampoo, who was first to be elected captain of Bigg Boss Telugu season 1, put up a show of sorts. He was visibly upset over being isolated from the rest. He was given medical assistance, but with the help of Dhanraj, he expressed his wish to be eliminated from the house, at the end of the next week, given the first week's nominations were already fixed. Both Dhanraj and Sampoo were shown requesting Bigg Boss to ensure that the latter is allowed to leave, or else he would find his own means to escape.
 
  
 
 Whilst talking to everybody about their behaviour in the house, Tarak took a dig at Siva Balaji, who was seen ranting about not having access to cigars. The host, who seemed to be in top form yesterday, dug deep into the issues that Jyothi and Kartheeka, Archana and Madhu Priya, Prince and Hari Teja had during the past few days and tried to gain an insight into the happenings.
 
  
 Tarak assigned a quirky task to none other than Kathi Mahesh, who is nominated for eviction. He was asked to visit the store room and bring a tray, which was later revealed to hold a heap of laddoos. The seemingly sweet stuff was not made to satiate their sweet tooth but designed to shock — made to taste bitter.
 
  
 
 Tarak asked the contestants to come forward and feed the bitter tasting laddoo to whomever they wish [had a bone to pick with] and the task ended with four contestants feeding it to Jyothi, another nominated contestant for the first week's elimination process.
 
  
 When Tarak finally asked Kathi Mahesh to pack his bags, he took it in his stride, but expressed disappointment about leaving the house so soon. Mumaith Khan broke down, saying she had found a good friend in Mahesh. The rest of the contestants showered love and praises on him, causing the writer-director to well up. Amid the tearful goodbyes, Tarak then announced Hari Teja and Jyoti to pack their bags and be ready to walk out of the house. This twist shocked the contestants, who were later informed that the elimination would happen in 
  episode (July 23).
 
  
 
 Who do you think will leave the house? Stay tuned. 
 
 
 
