CHANDIGARH: Punjab government on Tuesday announced mulling a chargesheet against three IAS officers for alleged irregularities in awarding single-bid tenders for Rs 500-crore civil works. It was stated in an official statement issued by the local bodies department.

 The department has included comments by Punjab advocate general ( ) Atul Nanda on an inquiry commissioned by local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu while recommending the action against IAS officers as well as superintending engineers.
 
 The three IAS officers, under scrutiny, served as municipal commissioners during the last government. They are Sonali Giri, Ghanshyam Thori and G S Khera. While Giri was in Amritsar, Thori was in Ludhiana and Khera was in Jalandhar.
 
 An investigation into all the tenders allotted under the Urban Mission will also be undertaken, an official spokesman of the department said.
 
 The move came after the Punjab Advocate General (AG), Atul Nanda, opined that the awarding of work under a single tender was “not valid”. The department had sought an opinion of the   on whether the award of tender through a single bid was permissible under law and if so, under what circumstances. Nanda, in his opinion said, “Yes, under very rare and exceptional circumstances, after recording justification on file for this and pursuant to the permission from the competent authority.”
 
 The Punjab AG also opined that the procedure adopted, at present, for consideration and granting such tenders was not valid.
 
 According to a note by the AG attached in the government statement, the tenders were allotted violating the Punjab Municipal Corporation (PMC) Act, which mandate that funds allotted to the corporation from any source would be governed by municipal laws as well as conform to February 22, 2011 notification.
 
 “After examining 1,000 files pertaining to civil work, work orders, it has been observed that over half the work orders were placed based on a single bid and nearly 200 work orders were placed based on two bids. Total amount of such awarded contracts is approximately Rs 500 crore,” said the government.
 
 “The charge-sheet against Sonali Giri, G S Khera and Ghanshyam Thori may be framed and put up on a separate file, which is to be sent to CMO for sanction,” it added.
 
 The government also announced suspension of superintendent engineers P K Goel, Kulwinder Singh, Pawan Sharma and   following detailed investigation into all tenders allotted under Urban Mission.
 
