MUMBAI: A day after bodies of a 29-year-old   and her eight-year-old daughter were found in their fourth-floor flat in  , police on Sunday launched a hunt for her suspected boyfriend, who was caught on CCTV camera entering the building around 10 pm Wednesday and hurriedly leaving with his face covered around 7 am Thursday. 

 Police suspect  , a single mother, and her daughter, Hetavi, were killed in this period in Sonam Saraswati building, Golden Nest. Around 7.20 am Thursday, the youth was caught on a CCTV camera at Bhayander railway station boarding a train towards Mumbai.
 
 Three police teams have been formed to find the man, aged around 26, who used to often visit Deepika at her rented flat in the past two months. One of Deepika’s neighbours told police he had heard loud arguments in Deepika’s flat in the early hours of Thursday. He and the security guard of the building said the youth caught on CCTV visited Deepika’s flat often. 
 
 The youth’s cellphone is switched off and he is also suspected to have taken away one of Deepika’s cellphones. Police suspect the cellphone may have been used by them to communicate. 
 
 The police are also exploring whether Deepika was   as her nightgown was found pulled up to her chest. Deepika’s body was found in the living room with blood stains on the wall. After an half-an-hour search, police found Hetavi’s body inside the storage area of a bed. The bodies bore head injuries. 
 
 The CCTV camera in the building had captured the youth on the premises on three consecutive days —on two earlier occasions, he was accompanied by a couple of men. 
 
 Deepika’s estranged husband, Kartik Sanghvi, who was detained for questioning on Sunday, told police he had objected to the youth visiting her as Hetavi disliked him. He further said Deepika’s parents knew about the youth. 
 
 Police said Hetavi had last attended school on January 25. As Deepika’s mother did not hear from her on Republic Day, she went to Hetavi’s  ,  ,  , on Friday, where she was told about her absence. Deepika’s mother told police she did not go looking for them as she thought the duo may have gone out.
 
 By Friday night, when Deepika did not return the calls, her mother called up Kartik, who is a real estate agent and also deals in bank loans. Kartik visited the flat, rang the door-bell, even called on Deepika’s cellphone. As he got no response, he enquired with a few neighbours, who were unaware about the duo’s whereabouts. After the couple separated in February, Kartik used to give Rs 7,000 a month for Hetavi.
 
 EERIE MEMORY
 
 For the locals, the double murder brought back memories of the killing of French woman Madhuvanti Pathak (33) by her husband, Girish Pote, at Nakshatra Towers in December 2013. Sonam Saraswati building and Nakshatra Towers share the same compound wall. Pote, who had chopped the body and hid the parts in a refrigerator, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Thane court on January 5.
 
 
