Ramjas College’s sports ground echoed with the names of the two dhakad sisters, Geeta and  , who came to attend the college’s sports meet, on Thursday. The event, organized by the NSS and the sports department as part of the college’s centennial celebrations, also saw cricketer and an alumnus of the   Gautam Gambhir.

 
 Gautam reached the college on time and was seen posing for selfies and giving autographs to his fans. Though it was quite difficult to manage the crowd, the cricketer did not complain while communicating with his fans. "It feels great to come back to DU. I am from Hindu College and that was the best time of my life," he said.
 
  
  
 
 Gautam Gambhir, who also attended the sports meet with the Phogat sisters, was the centre of selfies for all his female fans. While some posed with him during his address, others came up on the stage with gifts and some more phone cameras. The good part is that he didn’t seem to have a problem(BCCL)
 
 
 He also encouraged the students to treat women equally, and said, "The Bangalore incident has frustrated me and has made me angry. I am ashamed of being called a man. We talk about Swachh Bharat, but sabse important baat hai ki jabtak aapki soch swachh nahi hogi, tab tak aapka desh aage nahin badhega."
 
 As Geeta entered, she was also greeted with loud cheers. Geeta thanked the college for inviting her, and said, "Jaise hi humein invite aaya, humne haan keh diya. Aur aap sab ka pyar dekh kar bohut khushi ho rahi hai. Mujhe apne school aur college ke din yaad aa gaye. Aap sab ne Dangal film toh dekhi hi hogi?" As the crowd shouted, “Yesss," she added, "Film ki real hero aapke samne hai, usme jo mehnat aur kahani dikhayi gayi hai, woh sach hai. Mere pita ne bohot sangharsh aur mehnat kiya hai." Babita, who came a bit late for the event gave the message, "Jo bhi dil se ladega, uski jeet hogi."
 
 
 
 
 The students who were overwhelmed to see the Phogat sisters told us that it was a dream come true to meet them after watching the movie. “Their words were inspiring and we were lucky to have them here," said Simran Walia, the student coordinator of NSS from the college. Meghna Gupta, a third year student, added, "Jaisi thinking Mahavir Phogat ki hai, vaisi toh aaj kal ke parents ki bhi nahin hoti. They are role models for all of us."
 
 
