COIMBATORE: The city crime branch has arrested a 35-year-old man who was impersonating as a project director of district rural development agency (DRDA) and cheated more than 80 people of Rs 1.5 crore by promising them to get jobs in the   and allot them flats belonging to the slum clearance board at Vellalore. The police also arrested two of his accomplices on Tuesday. 

 The arrested persons were identified as V   alias Raja, 35, of Chettipalayam road in Eachanari, S Mahaboob Ali, 39 of Sundarapuram and D Sudhakar, 37 of MGR Nagar at SIDCO near Sundarapuram. 
 
 The preliminary investigation revealed that one Ruban   is working as a project director of DRDA in Coimbatore district. 
 
 The mastermind, Shankar Raja, who holds a dipolma in Electrical and Electronics Engineering, impersonated as Ruban Sankar Raj and promised the victims to get jobs and allot flats. Many people who visited the district collectorate thought Ruban Sankar Raj is the Shankar Raja which helped him to continue his coning spree. 
 
 S Arulkumar, 33, from Netajipuram in  , is one of the trio’s victim. He worked as a manager in a private firm and approached Shankar Raja to get a government job and had given Rs 5 lakh to him last year for the same. He was given appointment order by Shankar Raja. Similar appointment orders for jobs and allotment deals for apartments with government seals were given to other victims too. The incidents came to light when the victims apporached the officials for jobs and apartments.
 
 The police arrested the trio and booked under Sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 170 (personating a public servant), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged (document or electronic record) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Police said Shankar Raja had spent most of the money for buying luxury cars and imported motorcycles. They have seized three cars and ten motorcycles from them. Police also identified a few properties belonging to Shankar Raja and plan to attach them to the case.
 
 
