His directorial debut, Kuttram Kadithal, won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil and   State Award for Best Film, among others. And now, after almost three years,   is back with the much-anticipated Jyotika-starrer,  . “I’m confident about the script, but I believe that art, too, lies in the eyes of the beholder. So, I’m eagerly waiting to find out how the audience likes the film. The tension, anxiety is still there,” says the director. Even as the film hits screens today, we catch up with Bramma...

 
 I didn’t do my first film for the awards. But since it was appreciated, I realised I had to rise above the challenge. There would be a comparison scale, but I feel I’ve done justice to an extent. I didn’t carry the weight of the awards when I made Magalir Mattum.
 
 
 No, not at all. But once she came onboard, I made a few changes keeping in mind her persona. Audience would want to see the Jo they have loved on the big screen too — her charm, expression and style of performance are a hit with them. So, I had to strike a balance between Jyotika the actress and Prabhavati, the character she was playing. And she has fit beautifully in the role.
 
 
 The three of them were so cooperative; like newcomers, they would eagerly wait for me to narrate their scenes. They didn’t have any ego or carry their experiences around on the set. I've been an ardent fan of theirs and I had to constantly shift between ‘fan mode’ and ‘director mode’. 
 
 
 I don’t believe in calling a film women-centric. When an actor plays the lead, we don’t call the film male-centric. So, what is with the ‘women-centric’ tag? There are just story-centric films. And mine will be a feel-good family entertainer. This film is a celebration of women; the intention is to not make them cry! And it’ll be the men and kids in the family who will find the film more appealing.
 
 
 He was confident of me and gave me a lot of space. Till the time I finished my final scene, he didn’t even watch the film. He listened to the songs and gave me suggestions, but never demanded I incorporate them. I’m thankful to him for letting me treat the film the way I visualised it.
 
 
