Edited

 Trichy: With an aim to achieve 100% door-to-door collection of segregated   by October 15, the civic body has intensified its campaign on creating awareness among residents on waste segregation at source. 
 
 Having Tamil music director James Vasanthan as its brand ambassador to promote cleanliness, the civic body is also reaching out to the residents by distributing pamphlets detailing their cooperation to keep the city clean.
 
 The entire city would have door-to-door collection of waste using mini trucks within a month, said city corporation commissioner N Ravichandran.
 
 While each vehicle on an average can cover a minimum of 1,500 households per day, the city would require 125 vehicles to cover all the 2.30 lakh households in the city.
 
 “As of now the work is carried out using 85 vehicles. With the addition of 70 more vehicles by mid-October, the civic body will have the required number of vehicles for door-to-door collection,” he said, adding that manual collection of waste by using tricycle or other vehicles would be completely shunned by mid-October. 
 
 The civic body had made it mandatory in June this year for households and commercial establishments to collect biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste generated at their place separately. 
 
 While disposal of unsegregated waste would invite fine from the civic body, plastic and other non-biodegradable waste will be collected once a week on Wednesday. 
 
 To ensure effective implementation of the project, residents must segregate wet and dry waste. 
 
 But the message is yet to reach a section of residents in the city. This has led the civic body to further intensify the campaign — spreading awareness about its initiative on solid waste management. 
 
 Over a lakh pamphlets detailing the initiatives of the civic body will be distributed among residents in all the four zones — right from gold coin scheme to households for effective dry waste collection to grievance redressal forum in the form of Swachhata mobile application. 
 
 “To take the message in an effective way we will have musician James Vasanthan as the brand ambassador of Trichy Corporation. A native of Trichy, James will address the residents in the coming days on the significance of maintaining the city clean,” said Ravichandran. 
 
 
