INDORE: A   broke out in a   in sector-1 of   early morning on Thursday and continued for several hours before it could be  . The fire reportedly destroyed  

 The blaze was triggered around 9:00 am at Vipin Foundation situated near Cee Cee power square in Pithampur industrial area after an alleged short circuit in the electrical panel.
 
 There were around 100 workers inside the factory when the fire broke out in the rear of the industry.
 
 As some of the workers noticed the fire, they raised an alarm, following which the electrical in-charge switched off the power supply but huge quantity of plastic balls kept in the factory took no time in catching the fire and very high flames started rising from the factory.
 
 One fire tender was rushed to the spot soon after the fire broke out. After a while, seven more fire tenders were rushed to the spot and were engaged in bringing the fire under control.
 
 In all, 12 fire tender vehicles of Pithampur municipal committee, police fire brigade, Mhow cantonment board and Indore reached the spot and started dousing the flames.
 
 A major incident was averted as an underground gas pipeline passes through the area which is merely 100 meters from the spot.
 
 The incident could have resulted in huge loss to the lives and property in about a dozen factories that are adjacent to the factory that was engulfed in the fire.
 
 It came to fore that there were around 1,000 bags full of plastic balls which are highly susceptible to the fire. This could be a reason why the fire spread in the entire area rapidly. It took more than four hours to bring the fire under control.
 
 As per Pithampur police, during preliminary investigation, it has been suspected that the fire was caused as a result of short circuit in the factory. The actual loss due to the fire is being assessed by the factory management. No casualty was reported but the owners have suffered losses, said police.
 
 The locals claimed that the smoke could be seen billowing from a long distance.
 
 “The fire could not be controlled for several hours. It took several tankers and foam of to douse the flames. The fire continued for several hours and gutted the shop. The high flames could be seen from a long distance,” said Anjana Tiwari, chief superintendent, fire department.
 
 Smoke continued to billow till evening on Thursday and fire fighters were engaged in checking the area to avoid any untoward incidents.
 
