MUMBAI: The state's finance minister, in the run up to   rollout, has announced various measures to enable the state to dispose of citizens' tax appeals and unlock revenue. He has also shifted the focus to earning non-tax revenue and revising fines, court charges and fees for various services. GST, or goods and ser vices tax, is a single indirect pan-India tax regime that is to be introduced on July 1.

 The state government will facilitate the move towards GST also by waiving off interest (to an extent) and penalty for those taxpayers who have not yet registered under VAT. Once they obtain   registration, they will be eligible for GST registration.
 
 In his budget speech, finance minister   said, “The number of appeals filed by taxpayers under value added tax (VAT) in Maharashtra is significant.“ To dispose of these appeals and unlock VAT revenue, which is held up under litigation, three more salestax tribunal benches will be set up. According to sources, 85,000 cases are in litigation.
 
 Some proposals are not taxpayer-friendly and will hamper business operations. “The current system of cancellation of ex-parte assessment orders, by the state's indirect tax authorities, has been repealed (exparte orders, in this context, are those passed without a taxpayer's presence). Thus, taxpayers will have to file an appeal with a mandatory pre-deposit of 10% of the disputed amount, resulting in undue hardship in case of high-pitched assessments,“ explains Sunil Gabhawalla, an expert on indirect taxation. The maximum amount required to be pre-deposited cannot exceed Rs 15 crore.
 
 If a company owes VAT dues to the government, the dues can be recovered by auctioning its assets. But because in many cases companies do not have adequate assets, Maharashtra's   proposes to make the directors of a private company “jointly and severally liable“. In other words, the personal property of the directors could be at risk of attachment for recovery of VAT.
 
 The silver lining is that taxpayers get more time to file appeals under VAT--the time limit has been in creased to 180 days from 120 days. Currently, in case of a delay in refund beyond 90 days from the date of the as sessment order, the tax payer is paid interest; this stands reduced to 60 days. In a case where e-payment of taxes is not possible owing to technical glitches in the automation system of the sales tax department, the state proposes to waive in terest for delayed tax pay ment.
 
