GURUGRAM: A 22-year-old man was burnt alive and two of his friends received burn injuries when an Alto they were travelling in collided with a mini truck on Sohna-Faridabad road and caught fire on Wednesday night. The two friends, who suffered over 50% burns, are being treated in a hospital, where their condition remains critical.

 The accident was so ghastly that both front tyres of the speeding mini truck were dislodged and flung far from the accident spot, while the car caught fire and was damaged beyond recovery. The mini truck driver managed to flee leaving his vehicle, so police lodged an FIR against the ‘unknown’ driver.
 
 The accident happened around 8.30pm on Wednesday near Nimoth village on Sohna-Faridabad road. Saurabh (22) and his friends Ankit (21) and Aakash (18), all from Parvatiya colony in Faridabad, were on their way to Saapki Nangli village to attend a friend’s wedding in Saurabh’s Alto and were travelling towards Sohna from Faridabad. Near Nimoth village, a speeding mini truck, also coming from Sohna side, tried to overtake the car but collided with it. 
 
 Hearing the loud noise, villagers quickly gathered at the accident spot and tried to extract the trio trapped in the car as the car burst into flames. They managed to pull out two from the rear seat, but were unable to extract the driver Saurabh before the fire engulfed him. “The mini truck was travelling in such speed that after it collided, its front tyres came out,” said Shamsuddin, an eyewitness. A police team and a fire tender reached the spot. The firefighters managed to bring the fire under control immediately, but by then the driver had died. The two injured friends were taken to a hospital in Sohna and later referred to   in Gurgaon. Cops said they are in ICU and not yet fit to give a statement.
 
 “Saurabh was a BA passout and working in his father’s small rubber factory in Faridabad. His friends are either students or dropouts. We are waiting to record their statements, but have already filed an FIR based on the statement of an eyewitness,” said ASI Narender Kumar, the investigating officer. The FIR was registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (negligence while driving) of the IPC at Sohna police station. 
 
 “We handed over Saurabh’s body to his kin after post-mortem, and have taken the mini truck in custody. We’re searching for the driver, who we hope be arrest soon,” said sub-inspector  , in-charge of Nimoth police chowki.
 
 
