JAIPUR: The Congress on Tuesday raised a protest alleging its members were not allowed to speak during the   which led to an uproar in the assembly as the Congress MLAs  

 The uproar was triggered after Speaker Kailash Meghwal did not allow Congress deputy whip   to speak on the issue related to restoration of mines the licenses of which were cancelled. The matter was raised by   Ramesh Meena. 
 
 Meena had sought details on the number of mining licenses of which were cancelled and demanded to know whether the government was planning on restoration of the cancelled mines. 
 
 Replying to the queries raised, mines minister Surendra Pal Singh said, none has been restored and any allotment of mines in future will be through e-auction.
 
 Meena asked the minister to inform the House about the government's stand before the Union ministry of mines over the cancellation of the mines but the minister said the matter is also in high court and assured the House that no mine will be restored by the government. The minister informed the House that the state government had approached the Centre for a review. He informed the house that the government will not revoke 740 mines, which were cancelled from November 2014 to January 2015. 
 
 As heated argument continued, parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore intervened, saying the matters which are in the court should not be discussed. Dotasara alleged that the state government was deliberately avoiding answers. “There has been a major scam in the department and all that the state government does is avoids giving answers on the argument that the matter is in the courts or being investigated by ACB or under the review of Lokayukt,’’ he alleged.
 
 The Speaker did not allow him to speak irking the Congress members who stormed to the well and accused the government of corruption. Amid the uproar, the minister alleged it was the former Congress government which encouraged corruption and that the former chief minister did not contain corrupt practices which led to scams.
 
 Prior to that, the government was cornered by its own MLA Prahlad Gunjal over seepage in the Chambal Right Bank Canal, which water resources minister Rampratrap admitted was a big problem. “It is ironical that on one hand, chief minister Vasundhara Raje is running the Jal Swavlamban Yojna and on the other, over 35% of the water in Kota Barrage is lost because of seepage,’’ he said.
 
 He demanded that immediate measures be taken for repairing the canal.
 
 
