CHANDIGARH: Olympian  , on Thursday, appeared before the local court to record his statement in the case of a fake website being run in his name.

 Milkha said before the court that the accused are young and should be given another chance. He said they, hopefully, would not repeat this crime. The accused, Atir Khan, Sanjeev Kumar Singh and   were booked on Milkha Singh's complaint. 
 
 The court of Imanbir Singh, civil judge, junior division recorded the statement and the case hearing has been scheduled for February 21. The accused, who created the fake website, told the prosecution they were ready to apologize for the mistake. A decision on the application of unconditional apology by the accused will be taken during the next hearing. 
 
 Sources said if the application is accepted, the FIR lodged against the accused would be quashed and a compromise will be struck. In 2014, the UT cyber wing booked two Delhi-based companies and their employees. A case was registered under sections 66, 66-A, C and E of the Information and Technology (IT) Act, section 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused.
 
 The complaint said the accused were well aware of the fact that the complainant was a renowned personality and for that reason, they created a website as a well-planned criminal conspiracy to use his name to achieve financial gains and benefits for themselves. 
 
 The accused developed the website and social networking accounts in the name of Milkha, which attracted advertisement, without prior permission from Milkha.
 
 The website was created in 2013 and Milkha came to know about it when a sponsor inquired about an advertisement in February, 2014, following which a complaint was made and an FIR was lodged.
 
 The accused, Afzar and Atir, were directors of two IT companies that operated from the same building in Delhi while the third accused, Sanjeev was an associate of both the directors. 
 
