NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday sought a report from the Centre on the effectiveness of alternatives to pellet guns, like laser dazzlers and spraying foul smelling water, in quelling violent protests in the Kashmir Valley. 

 Perusing the expert committee’s report on alternatives to pellet guns, which drew widespread criticism after it blinded many, a bench of CJI J S Khehar and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the panel had discussed many measures that would not harm protesters but would be effective in stopping them. The court said the alternative methods could be used in four or five places in the Valley which saw chronic violent protests to assess their efficacy. 
 
 “We recognise the right to peaceful protest of every one. But we cannot allow a crowd to indulge in violence, injure security personnel and damage public property,” it said. “There is no question of the court telling the government or police force which technology or measure they should adopt to control a violent protest. The court should not say what measure should be adopted. A welfare state should not injure its own people. But at the same time, it must protect its security personnel and its property,” the bench said while giving attorney general Mukul Rohatgi four weeks to file the report on alternatives to pellet guns. 
 
 Petitioner J&K Bar Association asked why J&K was the only state where pellet guns were used, even though more violent protests were staged in Haryana recently. “Is the use of pellet guns, given the kind of injuries it had caused to innocent bystanders including loss of eyesight, constitutional or a valid mechanism to control crowd?” it asked. 
 
 The association said the protests had spread across Kashmir after the killing of militant Burhan Wani and argued that police’s SOP did not permit use of pellet guns. When the body stressed that many minors were injured by pellet guns, the SC asked the AG if forces had thought of prosecuting parents of minors who take part in violent protests.
 
