Janki Devi Memorial College’s open-air theatre was jam-packed when Patola singer and songwriter   performed at its annual cultural fest. The second and final day of the college’s fest,  , was a big hit among the students who danced, cheered and sang along with the  . 

  
 
 
  The event that started almost an hour late kept students waiting, not only near the stage, but even outside the college. From 'Aunty, humein jane do, bas door se dekhenge,' to 'ab toh bahut der ho gayi khade khade, ab toh jaane do na andar', students from other colleges tried their best to convince the guards at the college. "This fest is only for   students. We do not allow others due to security issues," said Ishita, media head and third-year student from JDMC. 
 
  The singer, who performed his first show in DU last year, took to the stage and apologized to the crowd for being late. He said, "Mere saare gaanon ko aap logon ne itna pyaar diya hai, I am really thankful to you. JDMC rocks, tumhara college bhi badhia hai, aur principal bhi," he said.
 
 
 
  While most girls' colleges in DU have taken a conscious call to not invite singers whose lyrics they consider derogatory towards women, JDMC had no qualms in inviting Guru Randhawa for their fest. "We had called him a long time ago, and it was not possible to cancel things at the last moment," said a member of the students’ union. Before singing his popular track, Suit, he addressed the 'ban,' and JMC's students' union vice president voicing her opinion about his music (see pic on right), and said to the crowd, "Main toh keh raha hoon – suit suit karda. Maine kab bol diya ki skirt suit kardi? Nobody listens to the good music that we make. Bollywood ke saare gaane aap ko achhe lagenge, Murder film ke gaane achhe hain, par humare nahi. Ek artist ki life bahut mushkil hoti hai. Aap yeh baat ko samajha karo, ek artist ke liye paisa kamana bahut badi baat hai. Aap bina kisi baat ke usse news mein la rahe ho, ye bahut galat baat hai. JMC wali, tenu bhi suit suit karda."
 
 
 
 
  The singer danced, cheered and engaged with the crowd. “It is important to give your best, and become successful in whatever you pursue. If you are confident in a field, pursue that. I was good in music, I did that. Whatever I am today is because of you guys," he said, and added, "Live music ka matlab hota hai ki live gaana gaao. Ye nahi ki peechhe CD chala do, aur stage per ‘yeah, yeah’ kar do.”
 
 
 
 
  When the members of the students’ union of JDMC asked him to call them on stage for clicking photographs, he said, "Last year, Maitreyi College mein jab maine perform kiya, toh keh diya ki maine ramp walk kara di. Agar aap log kahoge, tab hi main inhe uppar aane dunga. Aur aap log selfie kar ke chale jaana."
 
  Evidently, Randhawa wasn’t done with JMC yet. He added, "Itna shor machao, ki JMC walion ko pata chale kahan ka shor hai! Jab unhe pata chalega ki JDMC mein itna achha show hua hai, woh kahengi – ‘nahi nahi, achha nahi hua'. But jab woh video dekhengi tab kahengi bahut achha hua." Here’s hoping!
 
 
