Chennai: State health minister C Vijayabaskar on Tuesday moved two bills in the state legislative assembly to exclude Tamil Nadu from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses.

 In 2016, the   mandated a uniform entrance test for admission to medical courses. This will be conducted by the Central Board of School Education for undergraduate courses and by the   for postgraduate courses. Although the state-run institutions were exempted from the examination last year, it has been made mandatory for 2017.
 
 The proposed pieces of legislation – the Tamil Nadu Admission to MBBS and BDS Courses Act, 2017 and the Tamil Nadu Admission to Post Graduate Courses in Medicine and Dentistry Act, 2017 – will need approvals from at least two Union ministries, health and law, before it is sent to the President for assent. Until now, admissions to undergraduate medical courses were done based on merit and rule of reservation as per the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Admission in Professional Courses Act, 2006, and the admission to PG courses was based on an executive order.
 
 On Tuesday, Vijaybaskar said, “the state government has taken a policy decision to continue the present procedure of admissions to MBBS and BDS courses on the basis of the marks obtained in the higher secondary examination (class XII)”. For students coming from other boards, the state government will use the “normalisation” procedure to ensure level playing, as prescribed in the 2006 legislation. For instance, if the highest mark scored in chemistry is 90 for CBSE and 100 in the state board, both will be taken as 100. After the normalisation, the state will prepare a common merit list and allot seats through centralised counselling by applying the rule of reservation. Counselling will be done for all seats in the state-run colleges, barring the 15% seats it surrenders to the Centre. In addition, the state will arrive at a consensus with self-financing colleges affiliated to the state university to surrender 65% of seats in case they are non-minority and 50% in case they are run by minorities.
 
 Most of the students who appear for the uniform examination come from rural areas who have little or no access to coaching classes to equip themselves for the examination, due to their economic conditions. “Uniform examinations have become traumatic for parents and students as it appears to determine at one stroke the future of the child,” he said.
 
 The class XII examination is a serious examination of merit, casting a burden on students and it obviates the need for a uniform examination. Moreover, the syllabus, methodology and content of the uniform examination are based on those prescribed by the CBSE.
 
 The minister said the state government’s objective to provide quality healthcare to rural and needy people would be thrown out of gear if it followed the common entrance for admission to PG courses.
 
 
