MUMBAI: Three decades after Amelia Earhart’s failed   flight around the world, Jerrie Mock, an Ohio housewife, became the first woman to circumnavigate the globe in 1964. In the later years, quite a few others repeated the feat to grab the title of  ,  , and so on. So when 29-year-old Shaesta Waiz took off from Daytona in Florida on May 13, it wasn’t particularly to break any records. It was rather to break or navigate past gender and cultural stereotypes.

 The first opportunity came hours after she left Halifax in Canada. About 540km into the Atlantic ocean, the pilot had to turn back after the antenna of a radio equipment used to communicate with air traffic controller when at sea came off. The Beechcraft Bonanza A36 aircraft was at 8,000 feet. “I looked down from the cockpit window to see the waves crashing,” said Waiz, who was in Mumbai on Wednesday. She turned back and landed at the first available airport. Even as she was wondering about the customs clearance and other hurdles that the unscheduled landing would bring about, the customs agent at the airport, on seeing her alone, quipped: “Hello, where is the pilot?”
 
 It was a coincidence that the agent’s question happened to be aimed at a woman pilot who had set to fly solo around the world to inspire the next generation, specifically women and minorities, to pursue STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) and aviation education.
 
 In countries like the US and the UK, only 5% airline pilots are women (in India, its about 11 %). Waiz’s 25,000 miles solo   around the world is scheduled to have more than 30 stops over five continents, in 18 countries, where she and the Dreams Soar (an NGO) team would interact with kids to raise awareness and funds to further STEM education across the world.
 
 So far she has interacted with more than 1,700 children, including those at a Mumbai orphanage she visited in the morning. In her interactions with kids, aged 7-15 years, in schools and orphanages, she found a common thread. Whenever she posed the question, “Who wants to work in STEM?”, only three-four boys put up their hands. Waiz and her Dreams Soar team then showed the kids videos and talked to them about the role that STEM education plays in various aspects of life. To inspire the kids, Waiz also shared her own stories. 
 
 Waiz was one-year old when her parents fled Kabul,  , after the Soviet invasion. She grew up in Richmond, California in an impoverished neighbourhood in a home where English was banned in favour of Pashto and Dari and in a family that knew nothing about Christmas or Thanksgiving. “I thought I would grow up and get married. It was not until I was in college that I got passionate about aviation,” said Waiz. 
 
 After she landed in Dubai on July 6, she visited Kabul on July 10, the first time since she left the country as a baby. “When I stepped out of Kabul airport, there were about 300 people, including, women and children, gathered to welcome me,’’ she said.
 
 She didn’t fly into Mumbai in her aircraft because of poor weather. She left it back in Dubai and will now return to take off the solo journey. She might have miles to go before the solo flight is completed, but she already has tasted victory. “When I was crossing Atlantic, I said to myself, who would have thought that the eighth woman to cross the Atlantic solo would be a refugee from Afghanistan?” 
 
 
