MANALI: While snow is important in Himachal Pradesh for fresh water and ecosystem, avalanches are the biggest threat to life and property during winter months. The state has hundreds of avalanche prone sites but these areas have not been protected. For the first time now,   project are constructing avalanche control structures on the roads with the help of Defence Research and Development Organization’s (DRDO) research body.

 Kinnaur, Kullu, Chamba, Lahaul-Spiti, and parts of Mandi, Sirmaur, Kangra and Shimla have avalanche risk zones. A large portion of Rampur-Spiti highway, which covers almost entire length of Kinnaur, is prone to avalanches. Entire length of Lahaul along Manali-Leh highway from Koksar till Darcha is risky. Keylong-Udaipur highway and its all-link roads witness dozens of avalanches every year. Kullu-Manali national highway has a very dangerous point near Kalath village which gets avalanche every year. Another such point is near Nehru Kund on Manali-Rohtang highway.
 
 Rohtang tunnel project engineers with the help of DRDO’s Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) are constructing snow galleries to protect the approach road to the tunnel from Manali. Sources said there are nearly 46 avalanche prone sites on tunnel’s approach. According to the project director, Colonel Sanjay Thaplial, one snow gallery is ready where avalanches will pass over the road and traffic will continue to move inside the gallery. “We are working on 13 such structures. It will protect the approach road till tunnel from damages and blockades,” he said.
 
 SASE of DRDO identifies avalanche prone areas using remote sensing and geographic information system (GIS). It has also developed a GPS-based real time avalanche path warning and navigation system. They have information about particular area, slope, aspect, ground cover, location of avalanche sites, track profile, cross-section profile and other information about the avalanches. SASE has even designed other avalanche control structures like snow bridges, nets and fences, wind baffles, jet roof, terrain modification and terrace cutting, but the government has no provision to install such techniques.
 
