NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   today said the poor are the focus of his government, and projected   as a long-term tool to improve their lives, and to fight black money and corruption.

 The PM's remarks came at the BJP's National Executive meeting in New Delhi, which concluded today. 
 
 He said serving the poor is like serving the Almighty, and invoked a Sanskrit shloka to say that he doesn't covet power, heaven or a second life, but longs to end the people's sufferings.
 
 In fact, the central theme of the PM's 50 minute long speech was the poor and his government's efforts to empower them.
 
 Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad - who summarized PM Modi's address in a press conference after the national executive meet - said he'd told BJP workers that the poor aren't a means for the BJP to win elections, and that the party doesn't see them through vote-bank glasses.
 
 The PM cited a string of government's measures, including Jan Dhan accounts, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Swachh Bharat, and said the poor have inner strength to overcome poverty.
 
 
 
 
 PM   today once again pitched for electoral reforms and sought a consensus among political parties. He asserted that the BJP will play a lead role in making political funding transparent, as demonetisation and digital economy have ushered in a more transparent era.
 
 "BJP will be at the forefront of pushing transparency in political funding. People have a right to know where our funds are coming from," he said.
 
 With opposition parties levelling corruption charges at BJP leadership following the note ban, he asked party leaders to welcome criticism but they should remain unfazed by accusations even as he underlined his humble origins and had lived poverty.
 
 Referring to coming assembly elections in five states, including the crucial Uttar Pradesh polls, PM Modi expressed confidence that the party will win there.
 
 Sources said he also asked party leaders to not seek poll tickets for their kin, saying the organisation will take care of the exercise.
 
 Ravi Shankar Prasad said the BJP will hold its next National Executive meeting on April 15-16.
 
 
 
 
 
