NASHIK: Once an institute that was bursting with students, B D   now wears a deserted look as most of the classes have been shifted to other areas of the city.

 In the last few years, the   in Shalimar area has lost many classes to other civic schools as the number of students enrolling trickled down.
 
 This situation is not for long though as the school premises witnessed a splash of colours on Saturday. In order to revive the enrolment of students, artists and art students came together to paint the walls of the premises in vibrant colours.
 
 The noble cause was held in the form of a painting competition. “The reason behind holding this competition is the fact that the school has nearly closed down,” said art teacher,  . 
 
 The competition was aimed at beautifying the school to attract more students, at least for the upcoming academic year. 
 
 “We want to save the school building from getting demolished due to non-availability of students. We will organize more such competitions to make Nashikites aware about the condition and the woes of the school,” Sonawane said. 
 
 Situated opposite the GPO near Shalimar, the school has come to a shut down point. “The education department of the civic body shifted all the students to their schools at Radhakrishnanagar and Vishwasnagar in Satpur. If this school fails to enrol students this academic session too, then the local body will either demolish the building or use it for another purpose,” Sonawane said. 
 
 For Sonawane, who joined the school as an art teacher two years back, needs the school to be saved from demolition. Committed to his goal, he arranged the sponsors for the wall painting and coordinated the entire competition. “The response for the first round was minimal as only 10 participants showed up. But, I am hopeful for more number of art students to join this mission in the future. The second competition will be held in the last week of February,” said Sonawane. 
 
 The school boundary now sports traditional Warli art forms in bright colours. “Painting the Warli art theme was very interesting. We were provided with all the colours and drawing material. We are waiting for the results now,” said  , one of the participants. Most of the participants of the competition were from fine arts colleges from the city. 
 
 The results of the competition will be declared on Monday after the school will reopens. 
 
 This is not the first time that a civic run school has faced the fortune of shut down. In 2014, B D Bhalekar school faced a similar situation, after which activists and NGOs raised a voice and managed to enrol 128 students. Currently, the school has less than 100 students between Std. V and VII. 
 
