BENGALURU:: “I want an answer as to what caused me to lose my child all of a sudden in the 15th week,” said Iffa, daughter of former  , on Thursday. 

 Speaking for the first time since her admission to   on Monday night, Iffa, 20, who had undergone an abortion on Tuesday, said: “I did not eat anything on my own that day. It was caused by something I was given to eat. I want to get to the bottom of what transpired.” 
 
 On Thursday, she filed a written statement with Cubbon Park police. Cops said they have summoned the doctors who treated Iffa and recorded their statements.
 
 A complaint was filed against Iffa’s husband  , who is Ibrahim’s nephew, for ransacking the hospital in Vasanthnagar. 
 
 On Monday, Iffa was rushed to the hospital around 9 pm after she started bleeding profusely at her parents’ residence. Contrary to claims that she reached her parents’ house complaining of stomach cramps, and was then taken to hospital, Iffa said she had been staying with her parents since December 22. Recounting the events, Iffa said she had dosa in the morning, juice at 9.30am and then lunch at 3pm, after her hospital visit. She felt nauseous after having lunch, her statement said.
 
 “I remember sending the orange juice back because it tasted bitter. I assumed that it had been kept out for too long and asked for another glass of juice. Then I went in my father’s car for a routine check-up to Vikram Hospital. The doctors said everything was normal and that the pregnancy was progressing well. Despite pressure from my parents and siblings, who wanted me to get an abortion, I had decided to keep the baby. I returned home and was feeling uneasy. I began getting cramps. I consulted my regular doctor who prescribed a tablet. But even before I could do anything, I had to be rushed to hospital as I began bleeding profusely,” said the statement, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 She said half of the foetus had been expelled from her body with the umbilical cord still intact. Her mother, brother and sister rushed her to the hospital.
 
 Faizal told TOI that he was in Mysuru when the incident happened. “I had no idea what had happened. My family got a call from the hospital. Her family got her admitted; they didn’t even stay back to check on her. There was nobody when I reached the hospital at 2 am. Now her family is not in the city,” he alleged. 
 
 “I had told my family members to inform my husband about my health status. He was travelling from Mysuru to Bengaluru that evening. He came to know that I was in hospital only when a nurse called his sister,’’ Iffa said.
 
 Her regular doctor at   told her that cramps of this kind were rare in four-and-a-half months of pregnancy. 
 
  
 
 The couple said the hospital had not handed over the foetus to them. “In our religion, we bury the dead. We wanted to do the last rites as soon as possible, but they (hospital authorities) say it was being withheld as it’s a medico-legal case,” she said.
 
 Faizal’s father Khader, who has filed a complaint against Iffa’s family, was summoned to the police station. 
 
 “They said the foetus will be sent to a lab for testing, though doctors have told us that nothing can be determined by investigating it. They are trying to delay things,” she alleged. 
 
