BENGALURU: One of the imminent dangers of increasing modernization and development has been the rampant disregard for wildlife.  , so crucial to the wellbeing and free movement of wild animals, are facing devastation.

 Paramesha, Sidappa Setty and Ganesan took up Edeyaralli corridor in Billigiriranga swamy temple wildlife sanctuary in Chamarajnagar for a community-based corridor restoration programme, with the coordinated assistance of locals, government bodies and the forest department.
 
 Paramesha M, a fellow with the   in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), undertook the project for his PhD thesis but it soon expanded to a real time investigation. He presented his work at the recently held two-day conference organized by ATREE to commemorate their 20 years of work in the field of conservational biology. About 700 people from various backgrounds across the country as well as international experts were in attendance at the J N   here on Tuesday.
 
 “Edeyaralli corridor is home to about 15 kinds of mammals including the Asian elephant, Indian leopard, sambar deers, besides ten native spices. Such biodiversity needs to be conserved. We found support among the native Soliga tribals who can be included in our programme to care for the corridor under the MNREGA scheme. Tibetan settlers who have been given land there are willing to participate,” Paramesha said, adding the project has been ongoing for the past 2 to 3 years.
 
 “The reserve had the unique characteristic of being a successful wildlife sanctuary subject to the Forest Act, where locals cannot be deprived of their rights and resources. However, the team’s findings reveal that all stakeholders involved were willing to participate and were given the responsibility of growing certain potted plants in the form of decentralized nurseries. Their work has shown that human intervention can make a difference to the biodiversity of environment zones at risk,” Paramesha said.
 
 Dr Kamal Bawa, president, ATREE, said that the conference marked a day of celebration and reflection on how environmental challenges in the future would be dealt with. “Climate change is not a new phenomenon. But a conference dedicated to the threats of climate change gives it its rightful place. Our strength lies in the fact that we are able to develop projects that help deal with climate change and at the same time better the living condition of humans,” Bawa said.
 
 Ranked among the world’s top 20 environmental think tanks, ATREE’s work spans the length and breadth of the country. The conference also had projects by ATREE fellows under the broader themes of biodiversity and ecosystem services, water, land and society, forest governance and livelihood and climate change and development.
 
