It’s that time of the year, when you put on your dancing shoes and match the steps with your partner at the dandiya and garba events in the city. Dandiya nights are a craze during these nine days. With   kicking off, we give you some tips that will help you stay fit and look your best as you celebrate the festivities in style.

 
 
 Both men and women put in a lot of work, and let’s not forget about the money they use to look their best. Apart from your outfits and accessories, your makeup needs to be on point too… Makeup expert   tells us how to look your best this season...
 
 
 
 
 Fashion consultant and celebrity stylist Tejaswini Kranthi says that for women, being trendy yet ethnic is equally important. She says, “You can quirk up your look by draping an old sari from your grandma’s wardrobe and wear it as a sari or a wraparound skirt and team it with a tank top. The flow of the skirt will give you the grace and joy while dancing. Though a lehenga-choli is a must, many don’t wear it anymore. Remember, wear bright colours this season, keeping in mind the ethnicity of the fabric. ” For those who are working, Tejaswini says that wearing a long kurta with a handlloom skirt with a mirror border, can also look great.
 You can accessorize your look with a kamarbandh, maang teeka or earrings along with a potli bag from your wardrobe. “A maang teeka with a jazzy dress is the perfect look for women,” she says.
 
 
 
 Tejaswini adds that men can carry of the look according to their attitude and body style. “A dhoti, Pathani pant or Jodhpuri pant, one of these three is a must. Team this with a coat or blazer and formal shirt,” says Tejaswini, adding, “If the person is not confident enough to carry off this look, a kurta pyjama should do, but not in the regular colours. Colours from the international palette — maroon, burgundy, a midnight blue, deep purple or red — are the ones for men. Accessorize this with wristbands, and a watch or keep it simple with an antique kada.” Footwear is also important, says Tejaswini. “Kolhapuris top the list with kurtas, gladiators with dhotis are a must,” she sums up.
 
 
 
 Yes, garba makes for an excellent workout for your body, but at the same time, it’s important to eat well and keep yourself hydrated at all times. Also, if you are fasting, it is important that you plan your meals well. Fasting is a great way to detox your body, provided you do it right. Failing to eat well can result in low blood sugar levels, lack of stamina and other health problems. Avoid indulging in high-calorie snacks like fried potato chips in the name of fasting. Instead, choose healthier options that are rich in vitamins A, B and C and fibre-rich foods like tomatoes, apples, bananas, carrots, papaya, oranges, guava, berries, pomegranate, cucumber, pumpkin, sweet potato and yam. These can give you instant energy and vegetable juices can keep you fuller for longer time. Consciously make an effort to sip on water, coconut water, buttermilk, and vegetable juices and fruits juices to keep your water level intact and give yourself enough energy to be able to dance and enjoy every single night.
 
 
 
 Over the years, garba has undergone a makeover with traditional numbers making way for remixes and   music. DJ Jasmeet says that this year, Bollywood songs along with some popular English numbers are hot favourites. “Udi Udi Jaye from Raees, Lagdi Hai Thaii from Simran, Nagada Sang Dhol from Goliyon ki Rasleela Ram-Leela, Shubhaarambh from Kai Po Che and Prem Leela from   are some of the most popular songs that will rule the charts this year at garba events,” says Jasmeet. In addition to this, he adds, “Desi remixes of Despacito and Shape of You are also hot this year and are likely to be a hit among youngsters.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
