Mumbai: Stock prices of Indian   plunged by up to 4% on Tuesday, eroding over Rs 33,000 crore in market valuation of the top five firms, after the Trump administration tabled   in the House of Representatives on Tuesday. Analysts feel given the high margins Indian IT firms realise from their workers in the US, a hike in costs for workers under H-1B visa will have significant impact on the financials of the companies.

 Sector leader   lost 4.5%, while   closed 2% lower and   ended 1.6% off. With most of the tech stocks down sharply, the   index closed 3% lower — the biggest loss among the sectoral indices on the BSE. 
 
 Sector analysts said if this bill is made into a law, it will lead to higher costs for Indian IT companies that use H-1B visas extensively. “It doesn’t mean loss of business, but surely this will dent their margins,” said Amar Ambani, head of research, IIFL Wealth & Asset Management. However, the silver lining is that “it will impact all the companies working in the US”, Ambani said.
 
 According to some estimates, Indian IT services companies use about 85% of the total allocated quota of H-1B visas and, on an average, pay about $80,000 per worker in the US. In comparison, the bill proposes to hike the minimum wage to $130,000 from $60,000, a number that has not been revised since 1989. A similar bill was introduced in the US a few years ago, but was not made into a law. “Depending upon the companies, they could easily witness a 60-70% rise in the salaries of the H-1B visa-dependent workforce, and hence have significant impact on the net profit of the companies,” said Sarabjit Kour Nangra, VP (research — IT),  .
 
 “However, currently the bill is yet to be passed and most of the companies are looking at mitigating the risk through increasing local recruitment, more offshoring and moving offices to low-cost states. Thus, the real impact will be difficult to pin down and would depend upon the time when it actually gets implemented, which according to us could take time,” Kour Nangra said. Ambani, however, feels that the negative impact of higher US visa costs could be somewhat neutralised if the rupee depreciates against the dollar. Also, it needs to be seen how forcefully Indian companies are able to negotiate their contracts in the US to lessen the impact of prospective higher visa costs, he said.
 
 Indian IT stocks have been witnessing bouts of selling since   was elected the US President in early November. However, the pace of the slide has been sharp since he took office on January 20. Since that day, the top five software services companies from India — TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra — have seen their market capitalisation go down by a combined Rs 26,600 crore to Rs 9.22 lakh crore with their stock prices down between 2% and 4.2%.
 
 
