NEW DELHI: Ten seasons of the   have ensured that chief mentors or coaches of various teams are laughing all the way to the bank. When the IPL started in 2008, the average salary of a coach was around Rs 40 lakh, which has seen exponential growth in 10 years.

 Former Indian captain and mentor of the Delhi Daredevils team   has probably the highest-paid coaching job in the IPL, making, as per estimates, Rs 4.5 crore per year.
 
 Sources said that former   coach and ex-Australia captain Ricky Ponting too got roughly the same amount two years ago when he was Mumbai coach. Sources added that Daniel Vettori (  Bangalore) and Jacques Kallis (Kolkata Knight Riders) are making somewhere around Rs 3.5 crore per year.   (Kings XI Punjab),   (Mumbai Indians), Tom Moody (Sunrisers Hyderabad) and Stephen Fleming (Pune Rising Supergiant) are said to be in the Rs 2.3 to Rs 3-crore category.
 
 "Fleming is paid around Rs 2.5 crore while Mahela and Moody too fall in the same bracket. Viru could be paid a little more because he was paid around Rs 3 crore during his playing days," a source said while adding that former stalwart  , who is the 'icon' for Mumbai Indians, gets a hefty paycheque, which could be higher than Dravid's salary, for donning the role.
 
 However, Tendulkar is only present with the Mumbai team when they are playing at home and doesn't travel with the team.
 
 It was learnt that Gujarat Lions' coach Brad Hodge was the lowest-paid coach in IPL-10, making around Rs 70 lakh. "No coach in IPL has broken the million-dollar barrier, but it could just be a matter of time," a source explained. Even the assistant coaches in the IPL teams are paid handsomely - up to Rs 1.4 crore a year.
 
 Source said India national coach Anil Kumble could become one of the highest-paid coaches in the world if BCCI agrees to his demand for a wage increase. "If Kumble gets his wish, his salary would reach the Rs 8-crore bracket," another source said.
 
 Coaches at the domestic level aren't paid so handsomely. A Ranji Trophy coach generally gets an annual contract of between Rs 20 to Rs 30 lakh. At the National Cricket Academy, a coach - if he is a former India player - gets Rs 8,000 per day while others make Rs 4,500 per day when they attend camps in Bengaluru. 
 
