MOODBIDRI: Raising the pitch of the protest to lift the ban on the traditional folk sport, kambala (buffalo racing), people from all walks of life descended on Moodbidri, known as Jain Kashi, to participate in a protest march. The kambla agitation comes close on the heels of the state-wide jalikattu protests that rocked Tamil Nadu. Actors and politicians added their voice to the clamour for legalising the sport.

 More than a 100 trained buffalo pairs were taken in a procession from Swaraj Maidan to the Koti-Chennaya Jodukare kambala track in  , as part of the protest march. Popular artists in the coastal region including Devadas Kapikad, Vijayakumar Kodialbail, Bojaraj Vamanjoor, Naveen D Padil, Arjun Kapikad participated in the protest. 
 
 The huge outpouring of support for the sport indicated the determination of the people of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts to keep their traditions, of which kambala is an integral part, alive. The District Kambala Samiti, Sampradaya Kambala Samiti, Kambala Academy were the organisations that assumed a central role in the protest march. Although all the necessary preparations have been made at the Koti-Chennaya Jodukare track to host kamabala, the organisers said that they would not conduct the sport when the case was still before the court.
 
 “We are confident of hosting the first kambala of 2017 at this track once all the hurdles have been cleared,” said former minister and   president K Abhayachandra Jain.
 
 He pointed out chief minister Siddaramaiah had held a meeting to discuss the issue. ‘We are sure that kambala will begin at this venue this February,” Jain added.
 
 Reiterating the traditional significance of the sport, kambala patron   said, “The sport unites people belonging to different castes, religions, et al. There is no cruelty involved in this sport, and no deaths have been reported. However, we do not want to hold kambala today, because that would amount to contempt of court.”
 
 K Gunapala Kadamba, who runs a kambala academy in Moodbidri, said that the player hardly has any time to strike the buffaloes during the race. “Animal activists say that the buffaloes are mistreated. But the buffaloes generally complete the race in 14 seconds, and the track is just 145m long. Kambala race is a part of our culture,” he added.
 
 Tulu actors lend support
 
 Tulu actors and directors said that they were willing to stop production of films to show their support for kambala. “We will stop acting in plays, and are ready to launch a hunger strike too,” said senior actor and director Devadas Kapikad.
 
 Naveen D Padil highlighted the role that kambala essayed in preserving communal harmony in what was a communally sensitive region. “Today, animal rights organisations are invoking the law to ban kambala. Tomorrow, they will demand a ban on Mysuru Dasara since it involves an elephant procession,” he added.
 
 Bojaraj Vamanjoor too reaffirmed the support of the Tulu film industry for the kambala protest.
 
 We have been advocating non-violence 17 years
 
 “Taking a leaf out of the pro-jallikattu protesters’ book, agitators in Karnataka are labelling the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PeTA) a ‘foreign’ body, and calling for its ban. PETA India is a law-abiding organisation, which has been advocating non-violence, promoting vegetarian food and facilitating free veterinary care for working animals, whose owners cannot afford it, for the past 17 years. The organisation has been rescuing dogs, monkeys and elephants too. Seeking a ban on PeTA India would be akin to calling for a ban on a child protection organisation that saves kids from illegal trafficking. We should be concerned that people are seeking such measures. It’s time to ask ourselves what kind of a country we want – one wherein the mob decides laws, and courts don’t matter; where bullies call for the dissolution of a lawful organisation with an impeccable record of good deeds?”
 
 - Poorva Joshipura | CEO, PeTA India
 
 Show of strength
 
 *Over 100 pairs of buffaloes brought for protest
 
 *Residents offer water, fruit juice and jiggery to protesters
 
 *Free food for thousands who participated in the protest
 
 
