BHUBANESWAR: At least two persons known to be “close“ to Trinamool's Lok Sabha leader   deposed before an Odisha court on Saturday that they have taken money on behalf of the leader from the   Group. Their statements were recorded in front of a magistrate.

 The admission came as a shot in the arm for investigating officers at a time when senior TMC leaders   and Subrata Bakshi are going to Bhubaneswar on Sunday to meet Bandyopadhyay in custody.
 
 Following the money trail in the Rs 17,000-crore scam, CBI officers had come across a few people who conceded that they used to take cash from the Rose Valley Group. Later, they cross-checked it with Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu. Kundu admitted that he used to send cash to politicians, including Bandyopadhyay. Sources in the court said two of these people who had been ferrying cash were brought to the Khurda court in Bhubaneswar. Sources said that one more person has admitted in court that he had taken money from Kundu on behalf of Bandyopadhyay .
 
 The deposition by the two persons substantiates the CBI claim in its remand prayer that the Trinamool Lok Sabha leader had received “huge pecuniary advantage from the Rose Valley Group“. According to CBI, Kundu kept on making such favours to the Trinamool MP because “he assured the agents to go ahead with the financial business carried by the Rose Valley Group and also that he is always behind them,“ said a CBI official.
 
 Bandyopadhyay's rapport with the Rose Valley boss came to surface when investigators started probing into Rose Valley boss's parole application.After his mother Bibha Kundu fell ill, Kundu got her admitted to a nursing home near the EM Bypass. She allegedly had some further complication soon after the hospital released her.However, the ailment was not sufficient for her son Gautam Kundu to be released on parole again. According to CBI, Sudip Bandyopadhyay got his mother admitted to a private nursing home at Park Circus, thus helping Kundu to make a parole application.
 
 CBI has   on hold that reveals that Gautam Kundu's mother left the nursing home soon after taking ad mission and boarded at the south Kolkata hotel owned by Kundu. Investigators are now probing whether Bandyoapdhyay was part of this conni vance.
 
 When contacted, Bandyopadhyay's lawyer Rajdeep Mazumdar said, “Anybody can take money from Kundu claiming that he came from Bandopadhyay . How does that prove Bandopadhyay's offence? CBI has to prove that the person had actually handed over the money with him.Otherwise it does not stand in the eyes of the law.“
 
 Commenting on getting Kundu's mother admitted to a city hospital he said that as a people's representative it is Bandyopadhyay's duty to refer and help anyone who seeks assistance. “As a public figure he has been helping people and there is nothing wrong in that,“ he said.
 
