Kolkata: In a rare judicial order, the Calcutta high court on Wednesday asked the Union law minister to expedite the process of appointing judges to the country’s oldest court. The   stressed that only immediate action can prevent the justice delivery system from collapsing. 

 The HC also said the continued silence of the Centre over the appointment “would certainly be viewed seriously as interference in the course of administration of justice and followed by appropriate action as authorised in law”. The HC added that its politeness may not be understood as weakness on its part to be firm.
 
 The sanctioned strength of all high courts was increased by 25% a few years back. “It is unfortunate that, so far as this court is concerned, even the sanctioned strength prior to such recommendation i.e. 58, was never achieved... The maximum number of judges this court had, in its more than 150 years of existence, was 50 on October 30, 2013. In between then and October 22, 2014, i.e. when the next appointment came, 12 judges retired and a chief justice was elevated to the SC. Thus, it is seen that the functional strength came down to 37 from 50 within a year,” a bench of Justice   and Justice D P Dey said in their 18-page order.
 
 The order said, “Judicial notice can be taken of appointment of judges in nearly 10 high courts over the past three to four months and presently no other high court in the country having sanctioned strength in excess of 60 has such a low percentage of judges as this court.” 
 
 The HC said information revealed that names of seven members of the Bar have been recommended by the   to the Centre for elevating them as judges. Such names were recommended along with others recommended for other high courts long time back, it said. “While the functional strength of the other high courts has increased by the day, filling up of vacancies in this court remains a distant dream... Courtesy demands that the chief justice is informed of what stalls appointment of judges in this court so that optimum utilization of available resources can be achieved, to the extent possible.”
 
 The HC also cited the impact of the vacancies on the existing judges. “Naturally, time management has now become a key factor in the process of judging,” the order said, adding that the large number of vacancies have even necessitated judges with nearly 11 years’ experience, who preside over division benches, to dispose of single-bench matters. 
 
 “Can the nation think of the   in a functional state with half of its elected members? This bench is thus left to wonder as to why only in respect to filling up of vacancies in the high courts there is such a brazen apathy and indifference of the political executive. ...The inexplicable continued attitude of apathy and indifference in appointment of judges is hardly tolerable,” it added.
 
 
