KOLKATA: A day after   claimed a life--that of model and   host   --Lalbazar has started rethinking steps to check such crashes.

 The police headquarters pointed out they planned to redraw the Safe Drive, Save Life campaign. “ As a first step, we have begun a campaign, making seatbelts compulsory,“ said a DC-level officer. According to investigators, Chauhan was not wearing a seatbelt and so, received the worst impact, being thrown about inside the car following the crash; actor Vikram Chatterjee, who was at the wheel, did suffer multiple serious injuries but was saved as he had strapped the belt on.
 
 Even as the police decided to reinforce their presence on the streets, even at night, senior officers pointed out it was high time motorists educated themselves about road rules and car features. “On one hand, modern vehicles can pick up pace within seconds, and on the other, they have features to help avert accidents. But only a handful of people seem aware of them. We plan to write to the central and state transport departments about it,“ said a top IPS officer.“Every driver in Europe has to take retests. There is nothing stopping the use of a similar model here.“
 
 Listing out the measures they have decided to implement, the police said they would instal speed guns across the city , in line with what is being followed on Maa Flyover, to keep an eye on motorists stepping on the accelerator. “We have installed the speed-check devices on BT Road, James Long Sarani and EM Bypass and will set it up on more stretches,“ said an officer.Secondly , in a departure from the practice of ending traffic ho urs at 10pm, the police will now carry out surprise-checks on roads after midnight. Realizing that merely having three cops from each traffic guard at night will not serve the purpose, joint raids by three traffic guards have been planned for night.
 
 Prosecution would also send out a strong message, said cops. “We have impressed upon courts to send six people to jail for drink driving. We will also prosecute those found racing.We have zeroed in on IPC and Motor Vehicles Act provisions to punish the offenders,“ said an officer. Among other measures, the police are redesigning road furniture, the focus being on EM Bypass, where dividers are being built. “We are writing to PWD and KMC to light up some stretches,“ said a top officer.
 
 Times View
 
 It is too early to tell what caused Saturday's early-morning fatal accident. But many of the other recent ones have been attributed to irresponsible driving. Two other accidents in the last 48 hours have claimed the lives of two children; neither was wearing a helmet. We need to understand that this is one problem that cannot be solved by only more stringent policing. We also need to be more responsible when we take the wheels.
 
