MUMBAI: Chawl redevelopment is the single biggest issue in F South ward that straddles  ,  , Naigaum and Sewri.While the   continues to dominate this largely  , there is resentment against party workers for allegedly selling out to unscrupulous builders.

 Civic activist Bhaskar Saw ant, a resident of the middle class enclave of Sahakar Nagar, points to the sorry state of the local ground. He says it is difficult to play on because of debris dumping. On redevelopment, he says, “Several chawls have gone in for redevelopment, but there is no sign of the projects being completed. Work, wherever finished, is of very poor quality . Naturally, there is anger amongst residents.“
 
 Sawant said the area was once home to mill workers, but over a couple of decades has become home to a more affluent class of people. Leadenhall Nunes, a resi dent of Bhoiwada village, says the area has many advantages: it is well connected with the railway network, several superspeciality hospitals are in the vicinity and, most importantly , the area lies at the heart of the city. “Most residents here or their parents worked in the erstwhile mills. They see highrises coming up around them and so demand better and bigger homes,“ Nunes says.
 
 Bhoiwada's redevelopment has been underway for several years. While one building has come up, it is nowhere near completion. There is litigation and residents are divided.Many say they are angry with the Sena as party leaders have gained at the cost of residents.
 
 Local Sena MLA Ajay Choudhari says redevelopment is a challenge. “We are working hard to facilitate redevelopment. Given the large number of cessed buildings in my area, I have spent all of my local area development fund for the repair and upkeep of old buildings.“
 
 Choudhari is confident that the Sena will retain its stronghold. “It is true that some families have chosen to sell their new dwelling units and moved elsewhere, but Gujarati and Marwari families, who are moving in, are still in small numbers. We are trying to dis suade old locals from selling and moving out,“ he says.
 
 Bakulbhai Thakkar, a resident of   and a real estate agent, says there is a huge demand for 1BHK flats.“These are few and far between.Most are 2 or 3BHK homes, which the locals are unable to afford,“ he says.
 
 Given their small numbers, the local Sena leadership is not worried about the newcomers.“The residents of high-rises tell me to stop loudspeakers as they cause noise pollution, but I tell them that while they have their pubs and clubs, for a poor man, the loudspeaker is the only way to tell everyone that he is celebrating. We want to ensure that noise is within limits, but we certainly cannot take enjoyment away from poor locals.“
 
