NEW DELHI: Can   be  ? Can car users be moved completely to buses? These were some major talking points at the ongoing   on sustainable transport and urban development organised by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India Ross Centre. 

 The quality and the number of buses available in the country are abysmal and inadequate. According to road transport ministry officials who attended the meeting, there are 12 lakh buses in the country, of which only 1.3 lakh are being operated by state transport undertakings. These vehicles cater to 2.8 crore passengers or make 7 crore trips daily. Only 70,000 buses out of the 1.3 lakh nationally are for city operations. 
 
 The international standard is to ensure at least 60 buses per lakh population in urban areas. The gap is huge but buses also face perception problem, experts argue. Durga Shanker Mishra, additional secretary, UD ministry, said cities didn’t even procure buses, which could be purchased with funds given under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. 
 
 “They were not ready to take buses because it would require a complete infrastructure development like depots, bus stands, planning of routes and others….buses are also facing a perception issue. Every city wants a Metro system because it is seen as a symbol of political and economic advancement,” Mishra said, adding that underground Metro can cost Rs 500-700 crore per km while a bus rapid transit system (BRTS) costs about Rs 40-50 crore per km. 
 
 “Are we willing to spend so much on Metro? We have also come with a transit oriented development (TOD) policy to address the issue of moving people,’’ he said. Amit Bhatt of WRI highlighted that buses, despite being the most important public transport mode, are saddled with 13 different taxes and these taxes contribute to nearly 20% of a state transport undertaking’s operational costs. He also said there is limited competition with only two major bus manufacturers occupying 75% of the market and there are no bus forums to push for improvement in the sector.
 
 There were discussions on whether the bus service has to be privatised to ensure quality. Peter Hilliges, director of KfW Development Bank, said public transport in Germany is expensive but of good quality. In  , it can cost 20mins of a minimum wager’s working time for a trip. Experts agreed that in India, it has to be affordable. 
 
 Said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE): “The privilege of the car has to go if bus needs to be prioritised. Europe is spending tax payers’ money to support public transport. London is using congestion tax to fund it while Seoul is using road tax. We have to work towards building the glamour of the bus service and how it can be sold as a comfortable mode of travel.” 
 
 
