MADURAI: Sporadic   erupted across the southern districts after the apex court pronounced the conviction of   in the disproportionate  . The celebrations were organised by AIADMK cadre supporting chief minister O Panneerselvam and groups supporting Deepa (Jayalalithaa’s niece) as well as DMK party workers. But the momentum did not last long since most of the MLAs/MPs from the region are away in Chennai and DMK was not keen to celebrate. 

 As soon as the verdict became known to party functionaries, some of them burst crackers and distributed sweets to the public. In Tuticorin, a section of advocates – of both DMK & AIADMK – burst crackers at the district court premises stating that Supreme Court had come out with the right judgment. OPS supporters celebrated at Vilathikulam, Srivaikundam and Kovilpatti. There were not much celebrations in Tuticorin city as such. 
 
 In Dindigul district, the weaving town of Chinnalapatti in Dindigul town was one of the few places in the district where a grand celebration was held with thousands of fireworks being burst at one go as soon as the judgment was delivered. Former AIADMK floor leader of the Chinnalapatti town panchayat and Chinnalapatti Deepa Peravai organizer K Sakkarapani distributed sweets. AIADMK members also distributed sweets at the local police station and to the public at many places in the town.
 
 In Tirunelveli district, various factions celebrated the verdict at Surandai area. Supporters of O Panneerselvam garlanded the statue of former chief minister, C N Annadurai and raised slogans supporting OPS. In Kanyakumari district, AIADMK party workers supporting OPS and DMK workers celebrated at Nagercoil town by distributing sweets to the public and bursting crackers. Spirited celebrations were held at Rameswaram island of Ramanathapuram district also where fishermen celebrated the verdict with crackers and sweets. 
 
 However, most AIADMK party workers kept away from any celebrations since the verdict involved their leader, former chief minister J  . There was tussle among AIADMK workers at Melur in Madurai district after one of the party functionaries started bursting crackers after the verdict came out. A car belonging to the party worker was damaged and one of the workers suffered injuries in the tussle. 
 
 
