BHOPAL: The first day of   Municipal Corporation’s ( ) scheduled water supply outage on Wednesday due to repair works in the Kolar pipeline left people harassed. With mercury soaring and touching 40 degrees Celsius mark, most areas in the state capital went without water. Taps and coolers ran dry and residents beat the the heat in fans and natural air.

 The water outage will continue to affect water supply in many parts of the city on Thursday, too. 
 
 Normal water supply is expected to resume in parts of Arera Colony, Char Imli and Tilajamalpura by Thursday night. BMC officials said that normal water supply would be restored by April 14.
 
 Two major leakages in Kolar and Narmada pipelines have been scheduled for repairs. It is the third such repair to Narmada pipeline in as many weeks. 
 
 According to BMC officials water supply will be affected on Thursday in Railway Colony Habibganj, Janata Quarters, Nehru Nagar, South TT Nagar and parts of Arera Colony in new Bhopal on Thursday. In Old city, water supply will be erratic at Jehangirabad, PGBT college, Qazi camp, Nishatpura, Ibrahimpura (and surrounding areas), Bal Vihar, Bus stand, Railway station and adjoining areas.
 
 It would be the first major disruption in water supply after BMC began repairs and shifting of water line near the under construction Habibganj-ROB in 2015. Then water supply was interrupted for about three days. 
 
 BMC officials said once the water supply for main control station is started it takes about 10 hours for water to reach the end consumer. Going by the indications to achieve full pressure in water supply it would not be until Friday that normal water supply would be restored in all parts of the city.
 
 On Wednesday, apartments and densely populated zones were most impacted by the outage in water supply. The scene at vegetable market near Habibganj police station summed up the crisis. Dozens of plastic water containers lay empty without water. Vegetable and fruit sellers found it tough to source water. Nearby a 3,000 litre tank installed by the corporation was empty before noon.
 
 Amit Sen, a barber whose shop is located near Arera Colony E-11 had to fetch water from location almost two kilometres away. “It would help me manage work for a day. Business cannot be shut down for two consecutive days,” said Sen, whose friend assisted him to carry the plastic containers on a two-wheeler. 
 
 Despite intense heat, many water coolers in apartments from Arera Colony to Tilajamalpura ran totally dry. “We are trying to conserve water in case the water outage lasts more than scheduled. Normally when BMC says water supply would be restored in two days, it always takes more than presumptive timeline,” said Shanti Yadav, a housewife.
 
 
