PATNA: Educational pavilions saw a large number of footfalls on the inaugural day of three-day   celebrations at   on Wednesday. 

 At least 100 students were seen glued to the screen to win prizes in a general knowledge quiz competition at one of the pavilions. Class IX student Sukhi Kumari from Baldev Inter High School-Danapur answered most of the questions and won a chocolate hamper as prize.
 
 Which is the biggest planetarium of India?   in Kolkata, replied Sukhi. Who is the father of Ghatotkacha in the Mahabharata? Pandava Bhima, answered Kaif, a Class VIII student from Parwaha School in Sitamarhi. 
 
 Another pavilion organised state-level word power, essay writing and poem-writing competitions for classes VI to IX students. Pavilion head Motiur Rahman said the first phase of the competitions were held at the school level, second at the interschool level and the third phase at the district level. 
 
 “Two winners from each district are competing at the state level. Today, we organised a poem-writing competition on ‘Patriotism’. All the state-level winners will be felicitated on the concluding day of Bihar Diwas celebrations,” Rahman said.
 
 A cinema hall in one of the pavilions drew a 500-strong crowd of students. It screened back-to-back animated movies, including Lion King, Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, Bolt, Wall-E, Peter Pan and The Illusionist on Wednesday.
 
 Gunjan Sinha, a Class VII student from Kishanganj, said, “I watched two animated movies and liked them. I also learned new dance steps at the Sanskritik pavilion.”
 
 Kids from   presented dance and skit items on social issues and exhibited handmade crafts. Diksha Kumari, a Class VII student from  , said she performed a dance highlighting women empowerment. 
 
 Sanitation and water, fire safety and equipment, traffic rules, world animal protection and safe building pavilions also beckoned a large number of students. The civil defence and fire department conducted a mock drill, showing how to escape from a building in case of fire or earthquake. 
 
 Uttam Kumar, a Class VIII student from Madhepura, said he learned what to do in case of an emergency like earthquake or floods.
 
