VIJAYAWADA: On the third day of his visit to the US to attract investors, Andhra Pradesh chief minister   invited American aircraft manufacturing giant Bell Helicopter to establish a manufacturing facility in the state. The high-level delegation headed by him discussed the plans with Bell Helicopter's project director Chad Sparks and said the state government will provide all the necessary support, from creating an attractive investment policy to infrastructure, if the firm agrees to set up its unit in AP.

 "My state has an attractive aviation policy. For those who come forward to invest more than $75 million, we will draft a tailor-made investment policy to facilitate easier entry ," Naidu said. He also invited Chad Spark to visit Andhra Pradesh as soon as possible to take the matter forward, to which the project director said that the feasibility of investment will be examined.
 
 Earlier in the day, 28 IT services firms expressed willingness to establish their offices in Amaravati and  .
 
 Naidu, along with finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and other officials, reached Dallas after concluding meetings in San Francisco where he interacted with potential investors. After explaining the resources and facilities available in Andhra Pradesh, IT firms like Global Outlook, Tekpros, Arcus Technologies and others expressed their interest to set up shop in the state.
 
 “The companies will establish their offices in Amaravati and Visakhapatnam, thus creating employment of 64 and 310 in both the cities respectively . Land will be given on lease basis for these firms,“ officials said in a communique from chief minister's office.
 
 Representative from Dell, Srikanth Satya, also met the CM and evinced interest to set up a data centre in Amaravati or any other location.
 
 Later, the delegation also visited the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Plaza in Dallas and paid tributes to the Father of the Nation. Communications advisor Parakala Prabhakar, secretary to CM G Sai Prasad, AP   Board CEO J Krishna Kishore, CRDA principal secretary Ajay Jain, IT principal secretary K Vijayanand and other officials were part of the delegation.
 CM announces Rs 6 cr to launch Telugu linguistics school at Silicon Andhra univ
 
 With the aim of preserving and promoting Telugu language, chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu announced `6 crore (about $1 million) to set up the 'Amaravati School of Telugu Linguistics' at  . After meeting NRI CEOs on Sunday, the high-level delegation led by Naidu visited the varsity campus in California state and interacted with the Telugu diaspora. He lauded the efforts of the management for promoting the cultural heritage of Andhra Pradesh in a faraway land. “Every household should have a computer literate, Kuchipudi artiste and an entrepreneur. We are working towards realisation of this goal through our initiatives,“ he said.
 
