HYDERABAD:   in Hyderabad of yore was marked by grand Langar parade that drew people from far and wide to the city. Initiated by queenmother Hayat Baksh Begum 400 years ago, the procession, which symbolized the might of Qutub Shahi rulers and Asaf Jahi Nizams, was the single largest annual event in Hyderabad state till it faded into history during the latter part of the regime of  , Mir Osman Ali Khan. The mighty Langar parade is now succeeded by the centralized Bibi-kaAlam procession taken out on the 10th of Muharram, the first month of Islamic calendar. 

 The old parade was held on the fifth day of Muharram. The royal pomp and show that accompanied the Langar parade is no longer witnessed in the city. Even the tradition of the ruler welcoming Bibi-kaAlam has been done away with after the death of Osman Ali Khan. He was the last ruler, who received the alams and paid respects to martyrs of Karbala in whose mourning Muharram is observed. 
 
 A perusal of chroniclers' accounts of Hyderabad of bygone era reveals that Langar parade had caparisoned elephants and decorated camels and horses with the nobles, officials and armed for ces in tow. It was a grand sight to behold and thousands of common people stood on either side of the processional route. The mourning observance would begin only after completion of the parade. Innumerable people were provided with free food. 
 
 After discontinuing the parade , Osman Ali Khan set up an exclusive trust to maintain the Bibi-ka-Alam. He donated a male elephant that was exclusively used for the Bibi-ka-Alam procession, said Osman Ali Khan's grandson Nawab Najaf Ali Khan. “Bibi-ka-Alam trust was set up in 50's to take care of the expenditure of the elephant and the procession on 10th Muharram. Those days an elephant, named Hydari, would lead the procession. The present elephant is Rajani," Najaf Ali said.
 
 Nizam's another grandson Nawab Mir Shahmat Ali Khan recalled that Mir Osman Ali Khan would visit the Ashoorkhana in   daily from first to 10th Muharram. “I was 16 years old and asked by my master, Janab Abbas Shah Masuri, to speak about Hazrat Ali in Persian.This had pleased my grandfather so much that he hugged me,“ he said. According to Qasim Raza, former secretary of  , there was a firman from the Nizam that only three persons should sit on the elephant -alambardar (who carry the alam), the caretaker and a security guard. “Kichadi and Khatta were served as Langar to thousands of people in evening at Ashoorkhanas,“ recalled Syed Abbas, assistant secretary of the Nizam Auqaf Committee.
 
