Aurangabad: The recent spurt in attack on doctors and medical staff at government hospitals and the administration’s inability to deal with the nuisance has not gone down well with the city-based doctors.

 An intern doctor, Vivek Badge, was allegedly manhandled by relatives of a patient at   (GMCH) on Sunday night, sparking angry reactions from the community of resident doctors. This incident forced the doctors to go on en masse leave beginning from Monday.
 
 The GMCH has around 280 resident doctors who will shun their work if the protest continues. Pranay Jambhulkar, Aurangabad president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), said protest in the form of en masse leave would be observed across all the state-run hospitals.
 
 “While the court has refrained resident doctors from observing any indefinite strike, the medicos have invoked weapon in the form of en masse leave,” MARD leaders said.
 
 The resident doctors have demanded armed security guards at casualty section and   (OPD) among other busy units of government-run hospitals to prevent attacks.
 
 Begampura police have booked   and four other persons in connection with the assault on the intern doctor.
 
 According to GMCH authorities, Musa had come to the hospital following a fracture on his hand. “After check-up, he (Musa) was asked to go home and take rest as the injury would take time for recovery. However, he came back to the hospital in the evening with some complaint. An intern and a resident doctor were looking after him when the latter got a medical call. This led to an argument between the intern and the patient’s relatives, leading to an assault,” said the authorities.
 
 The incident sparked a widespread protest as all the doctors and nursing staff assembled and demanded stern action in the incident.
 
 The GMCH OPD was closed on Monday due to public holiday. Therefore, there was not much impact on patients. If the en masse leave protest continues, patients visiting the GMCH could get affected.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by the GMCH, the police have booked Musa and his four relatives under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 143 (Unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt).
 
 No arrest was made by police till Monday night. Sudhir Chaudhari, GMCH superintendent, said security would be stepped up in the hospital premise. “We have already put a check on number of relatives accompanying the patients and only one relative is allowed. Security staff would be asked to ensure strict compliance with the latest directives,” he said.
 
 With regards to the demand for armed security guards, authorities said it was a policy decision to be taken by the government. The resident doctors at GMCH, Aurangabad carried out candle march as part of their ongoing protest on Monday evening.
 
 
