PUNE: The research and development (R&D)   in India has witnessed a quantum shift, powered by rapid strides in   technologies such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality, augmented reality, Internet of things and blockchain (an anonymous online ledger that uses data structure to simplify the way we transact).

 This technological change is driving organizations to design new solutions or business models. “As technologies make their way deeper into industries and products, tech firms are expanding into designing and manufacturing products. Leading companies are using R&D centres to develop innovations using insights from research,” says Sangeeta Gupta, vice-president, Nasscom.
 
 For example, the Indian R&D team at Samsung has developed ‘ultra data saving’ feature for the smartphone industry — a feature which compresses data across content such as images, video, web browsing and apps to save data consumption by up to 50 per cent. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) recently launched Ignio to help customers run their operations on SAP more efficiently and effectively. TCS has used blockchain technology for core banking to develop a solution that can help banks develop a customer-centric business model, simplify operations and manage risk and compliance effectively.
 
 Engineering R&D firms are setting up dedicated Centres of Excellence and labs to focus on developing intellectual property (products, tools and platforms). Dell EMC Corporation opened its second R&D centre in Pune to strengthen its innovation engine. Tech Mahindra (T&M) also set up a ‘makers lab’ in Pune to encourage innovation within the company and build experiment with new technology.
 
 “Through this lab we created our internal AI-powered assistant Entellio. We have a ‘Factory of the Future’ lab in Bangalore where we are researching IOT based tech. We also have ‘makers labs’ in Canada,” says Atul Kunwar, chief technology officer, Tech Mahindra. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) have several innovation labs across the country in places like Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Chennai and elsewhere.
 
 Interestingly, not all R&D activities are solo in nature. Companies have embarked on a collaborative model to remain competitive and relevant. For example, Tata Elxsi and Avaya have partnered together to develop an advanced network solution-based Software Designed Networking (SDN) architecture for the telecom sector. Other companies like T&M and Newtec have also partnered for satellite communications-related projects.
 
 “In addition to our own in-house effort, TCS leverages the innovation capabilities of our technology partners, start-ups, and academic alliances. Our Co-Innovation Network (COIN™) expanded in FY 2017 to cover over 150 ecosystem partners, 2,000 start-ups, and 27 partnerships in academia. Some of them are inside the IITs, for example, some re outside India, some of them are design-centric, some are technology-centric,” says K Anant Krishnan, chief technology officer at Tata Consultancy Services.
 
 With companies focusing on innovation and digital technologies, R&D spend is seeing a definitive shift, says Gupta of Nasscom. TCS spent around Rs1278 crore on R&D last fiscal, IBM invests over $6 billion a year in R & D. “In 2016 (Jan-Sep), globally 192 R&D centres were set up; of these, 32% were in India, which is 5 times the number of R&D centres set up in China. “In the future too, R&D spend is expected to grow from 0.9% of India’s GDP in 2014 to 2.4% in 2034. Over 1000 patents were filed by leading companies in 2016-17,” adds Gupta.
 
