KOHIMA: The   (NTAC) and the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC), the two bodies spearheading the protests against reservation for women, are planning to widen the ongoing partial bandh to a total one from Monday, leaving chief minister   just a day's window to accede to their demand for his resignation. 

 The Friday midnight deadline the protesters had set for Zeliang to resign passed without any result. On Saturday, Zeliang met governor PB Acharya and briefed him about the situation in the state. A source said the chief minister has refused to step down.
 
 The ongoing partial bandh by the protesters is clamped only on government offices and movement of government vehicles, completely paralysing administration in the state. "The upcoming bandh from Monday will bring railways, air services, business establishments, road transport and government offices under its purview," an NTAC source said.
 
 "He (Zeliang) claims he has met the demands made by the JCC and the NTAC. But how can he forget his barefaced betrayal of the JCC and the NBCC, and the loss of lives of three innocent Naga youths?" the NTAC and JCC said.
 
 In a late development on Friday night, the ruling Democratic Alliance of Nagaland (DAN) legislature party held an emergency meeting at the state banquet hall, attended by 53 legislators - including the speaker, DAN chairman and NPF party president Shurhozelie Liezietsu, DAN vice-chairman and BJP state president  , and   MP KG Kenye.
 
 The chief minister's office said the three-hour-long meeting resolved to appeal to the agitating groups to lift the bandh and accept the offer for talks extended by the state government, in the true spirit of the democratic process, to bring about an amicable resolution to the Urban Local Bodies (ULBS) issue in the state.
 
 The NTAC and JCC on Saturday slammed state legislators for their continued support to the chief minister. Being elected by the people and having taken a pledge to work for the welfare of the people, the legislators are duty-bound to listen to the voice of the people, they said.
 
