Vadodara: Residents of major parts of the city are spending sleepless nights due to strong stench only from Monday. But residents of a posh apartment scheme in Gorwa have been living in such atmosphere since two years.

 Every time there is a change in weather or wind direction, residents of Shangri La Co-operative Housing Service Society cringe – the source of which the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) – has consistently failed to identify. They are still struggling to identify the source of Monday and Tuesday’s leakage. Since 2014, over 300 families have taken occupancy in this scheme which boasts of all the facilities including green environs, lawn tennis, badminton, walking and jogging area and a club house which regularly holds yoga, skating, dance and drawing classes for kids. 
 
 “Two years back, when we had approached GPCB with similar complaints, they had put up a monitoring station at our society. They made the observations for a week but could not identify any source of this stench,” said Paparaju B, president of the housing society. “Unless, there is a proper sensory mechanism in place, the authorities will not be able to resolve this problem. GPCB too needs to be equipped technologically as it is short-staffed,” he said. 
 
 Bhupendra Shah, 66, a management committee member, added, “No one sleeps soundly in our society at night. The area is surrounded by Gorwa industrial estate and industries like Gujarat State Fertilizer Corporation and refineries. But, the authorities have failed to locate the actual source of this stench. There are times when they do not respond to our calls.
 
 A doctor living in the society said, “Except community like ours, which is proactive and health conscious, other areas of Gorwa are comparatively less elite. We have the means to approach authorities like GPCB whenever we face this problem. But those living in the surrounding areas have got habituated with this stench which comes whenever there is a change in wind direction. What would a layman, who does not even know what GPCB is all about, do? We are sitting on a chemical chair.”
 
 
