AURANGABAD: The state energy minister Chandrashekhar   is scheduled to attend the 4-day ‘janata darbar’ scheduled to start on May 18.

 Stringent action has been taken against errant power utility officials in such outreach programmes in other districts. Because of this, local   officials have been leaving no stone unturned to minimise the pendency of public grievances. On April 25, Bawankule had ordered the salary increment be withheld for six senior officials from the Buldhana district during a janata darbar.
 
 “As billing-related complaints are the biggest consumer grievance, we held a two-day bill correction camp across 27 branch offices in the Aurangabad circle to address issues. The message has been already out that minimum number of consumers felt the need to attend the janata darbar,” an MSEDCL official said.
 
 Power utility officials have also appealed for maximum use of the recently introduced smartphone application to ensure different work gets done easily. “The mobile application is a gateway designed keeping consumers in mind. It offers services right form new electricity connections to bill payments at your fingertips,” authorities said.
 
 All district headquarters across   are slated to witness the consumer interaction-cum-grievance redressal in the form of   in phases by March 2018 to address issues faced in presence of the state energy minister.
 
 Bawankule, who was in the city recently to address a public event, had categorically asked power utility staffers from the Aurangabad circle to resolve consumer issues at their level to avoid any stern action during the janata darbar.
 
 Arjun  , the former president of the Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture, stressed on the need to hold a janata darbar for the public benefit.
 
 “A section of officials and staffers from the power utility need a proper check as their uncontrolled and unaccountable style of functioning has made lives miserable for many. Several consumers run from pillar to post to address their issues and eventually end up paying undue money to errant staffers to get their work done. The janata darbar in presence of minister will rein in such tendencies in power utility machinery,” Gayke said.
 
 The alleged corruption on part of GTL Urja, the erstwhile power franchise for Aurangabad, could also raise the heat at the janata darbar as the minister had also announced that he ordered probe into the wrongdoings.
 
 The recent appointment of Sunil Kendrekar, hailed as an upright and honest IAS officer, as director of newly set up MSEDCL regional office for Aurangabad, is expected to help consumers. The MSEDCL Aurangabad circle, which covers Aurangabad and Jalna districts, has around 6.83 lakh residential consumers, 58,000 commercial consumers and around 16,000 industrial consumers.
 
