AURANGABAD:   chairman Mohan Meghawale’s act of picking up and holding a two-month old tiger cub in the city zoo on Thursday has attracted criticism from various sectors. Taking note of the outcry, municipal commissioner  , on Friday, promised to look into the matter and also seek clarification from Meghawale for  . 

 During the naming ceremony of the three newly born Royal Bengal   at Siddhartha Garden zoo on Thursday, Meghawale fondled and held the cubs violating the norms set by the zoo. 
 
 On the occasion, mayor Bapu Ghadamode, opposition leader in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation Ayub Jahagirdar, leader of house Gajanan Mangate and others were also present, but they maintained a safe distance from the cubs.
 
 As per section 38 (J) of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, no person shall tease, molest, injure or feed any animal or cause disturbance to the animals by noise or otherwise or litter the ground in a zoo. 
 
 At present the zoo authorities are keeping the two-month-old tiger cubs away from humans to avoid any kind of infection. Moreover, according to the zoo authorities human interference may distract the lactating tigress, which can have a negative impact on the cubs. 
 
 A senior forest officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that the central zoo authority (CZA) has specific guidelines which restrict entries of visitors inside the cages of wild animals. 
 
 But, Meghawale and other office-bearers entered the cages and spent about 10 minutes inside. When TOI tried to contact Meghawale, he was not available on his phone. 
 
 Last year, the general body meeting had unanimously passed a proposal to suspend Siddharatha garden zoo in-charge B S Naikwade holding him responsible for the death of three leopard cubs. 
 
 The zoo authorities had brought a leopardess from Gadchiroli in March 2016. After arriving in the city zoo, the leopardess gave birth to three cubs, but the mother was unable to feed the cubs and eventually health of all the three cubs started deteriorating gradually. Although the civic authorities immediately informed the doctors, who placed the cubs in an incubator, they died within 48-hours. To look into their death, an enquiry committe was set up by the civic body. The committee, in its report, statedhuman interference leading to infection, was one of the causes for their death. And since Naikwade was their zoo in-charge, he was suspended.
 
