To prepare for his role in the TV show ' ', actor   had to master many yoga asanas. The actor plays the character of  , who has a "traditional approach towards life" and to show him as a "sanskari beta," yoga was the way to go. "He is a Shiva bhakt and does Surya Namaskar every day, so I also made Surya Namaskar a part of my daily workout session. I was a student of   and before our dance practice we used to do Surya Namaskar a couple of times. But I had never done yoga this regularly. It also helped me get the lean look I needed for the show, since I was quite beefed up and needed to lose weight. I have also realised that yoga helps you become calm and patient, while working out in a gym is about aggression," says Avinesh.

  Sharing what else went into preparing for the role, Avinesh adds, "I also went on a special diet called the Keto diet to lose weight. It is all about managing your water, protein and fibre intake. It is a 10-day process where you begin with drinking 8-10 litres of water, and then you reduce the water intake each day. On the last day, you consume no water. It is really effective if one exercises regularly and has a controlled diet."
 
  
  Avinesh Rekhi posed for us in his sanskari avatar for his new TV show at  
 
 
  The actor says that he has always been fascinated with Lord Shiva and is happy that he is getting to learn a lot of shlokas and mantras because of the role. He says, "Shiva has been my hero since childhood. I have also been to Amarnath. Though I haven't read any religious texts about Shiva, I like how he is interpreted in books and on TV shows. I think Shiva is a superhero among gods, someone who is extremely powerful, yet loving. He dances and has his own style with the rudrakshas and saapon ki maala. Shiva can be presented as one of the glamourous gods on screen."
 
  
  
 
  Though Avinesh was born and brought up in Punjab, he has been visiting Delhi since childhood and has even worked here for a year before moving to Mumbai. "I have relatives staying all over Delhi and I have many friends here. After completing my education from Australia, I joined my uncle's company in Delhi. My office was in   and I was staying in a rented apartment in Saket. Life was very smooth and easy here, and I realised that once I moved to Mumbai. There, it is so tough to even find a decent place to live on your own. Delhi has always been like home to me and despite being from Punjab, I always tell people that Delhi has better Punjabi food than Punjab. There is something different about the dal makhani made here and you can’t find that taste even in Punjab," says Avinesh, and adds that only one thing that he misses in Delhi is Appu Ghar. "I am sure every person my age would have childhood memories of visiting Appu Ghar in Delhi. I really miss that," he adds.
 
  
  
 
 
