CHENNAI: If you plan to   in  , make sure the plot is not on a marshland. Recognising the need, albeit belatedly, to protect these  , the government on Friday declared that properties on such land across the state would not be registered.

 An official communication said: “It is brought to the notice of the government that marshlands are being encroached upon and alienated through fraudulent documents. In order to safeguard the marshlands and in the interest of the environment and the public, it is decided that registration of any documents of properties in marshlands will not be done by the registration department.“
 
 An official said many marshlands in TN were `kazhuveli' land under the control of the revenue department. A senior forest depart ment official said many marshland areas in the state were `kazhuveli' land under the control of the revenue department. With no protection accorded, these ecologically sensitive areas became a huge `no man's land', often in a city, and systematically encroached upon.
 
 Take the case of the Pallikaranai marsh in south Chennai. A vitally imporant wetland that is home to migratory birds, it also serves as a flood mitigation system. It was with the revenue department till 2007 when 317 hectares was transferred to the forest department. Five years later another 170.40 hectares was given. Two years later, after another 206.98 hectares was handed over, it was declared a reserved land. By then, incalculable damage had been done and many buildings, including large housing complexes, had come up, the official said.
 
 The government's announcement, which follows the Madras high court's stay on registration of unapproved layouts, is expected to ensure marshlands can no longer be occupied. Officials concerned will have to conduct periodical checks.
 
 The registration department will carry out thorough scrutiny at multiple levels to curb registration of such land using fraudulent documents. The mother document would be referred to if there is suspicion, sources said.
 
 If need arises, top officials will verify the document. “We can even ask the revenue divisional officer and collector to look into the details,“ the official said. Such measures were taken recently in Tiruvallur district after doubts over the said property.
 
 Jayashree Vencatesan, founder of city-based biodiversity research organization CareEarth, said it could be the beginning of a model which could effectively show that conserving natural and semi-natural habitats is very imporatnt for the state's growth and development.
 
 
