THANE:   Devendra   made a last-minute dash to Thane on Sunday to energize BJP functionaries who appeared to be a bit concerned about the outcome of the battle for TMC.

 At the party conclave, Fadnavis clarified that he chose to conclude his election   in Thane as a reassurance to many residents and citizens activists here who have been flooding him with messages appealing to end the ties with Shiv Sena and end their dominance in TMC.
 
 “Decades ago, we decided to team up with Shiv Sena in Thane, purely driven by larger national interest. But over the years, Sena has turned very selfish and now wants to grab our space to become a bigger party. I have been getting text messages from residents wanting a positive change and they see that capability in us,” he said, exhorting party functionaries to “fight with all your might”.
 
 The BJP leader likened the Sena rule in Thane to that of Ravana’s regime over Lanka and said the destruction was near and several of the Sena leaders had switched over to BJP, just as Vibhishana did ahead of Lanka’s destruction.
 
 “They (Shiv Sena) consider the municipal corporation as a hen, which continues to lay golden eggs, and each one of them is busy exploiting it. For us, on the other hand, the corporation as a micro level unit to bring about a change in the lives of the people here,” said Fadnavis.
 
 He said, “Thane was once the citadel of the Jan Sangh, but over the years we have given way to the Shiv Sena. But now it is time to take back what rightfully belonged to the BJP.”
 
 He also expressed surprise on how Shiv Sena could talk about democracy, when the party had supported the emergency imposed by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in the seventies, restricting the freedom of citizens.
 
 “My father was jailed for 19 months during the emergency. We have suffered in the most undemocratic era, while the Sena leadership happily supported the emergency,” he said, exhorting party functionaries to counter the propaganda over the Sena’s charge over the ban on its mouthpiece during the election period.
 
 The civic administration is undertaking development and pro-common man work in Thane by clearing encroachments and widening roads. “It seems to me that only the municipal commissioner is working for the development of the city while the netas here have precious little to talk about development. The corporators here seem to be busy increasing their respective fortunes while neglecting the city,” he said.
 
 
