BHOPAL:   for filling up   is likely to be postponed again, this time due to the delay by revenue department in providing details to the   aka Vyapam that is the agency conducting the test.

 It is learnt 1,728 vacancies of patwaris are to be filled. The exam is scheduled for March but it is unlikely to be held given the short time constraint, now.
 
 Incidentally, the exam was earlier scheduled to be conducted in December last year. Last year, examinations were to be held to fill 9,000 vacancies but authorities at Vyapam said details of the vacancies were not provided by the revenue department.
 
 When contacted, director of Vyapam,   said the vacancies have been reduced compared to that in December. "I do not know the reason why the vacancies were reduced. However, I am not sure whether the exam will be conducted this time also on the scheduled dates," he said.
 
 In 2016, Vyapam gave September 15 as the deadline to revenue department to provide information for conducting the exam. Around 2 lakh candidates were expected to appear for the examination.
 
 In August 2016,   had decided to create new 7,398 patwari vacancies in revenue department. All old (1,731 posts) and new (7,398 posts) vacancies were supposed to be filled through the patwari examination in scheduled for December. A large number of posts of tehsildars and patwaris are vacant in Madhya Pradesh affecting the revenue work. Last time, the MP Patwari exam was conducted through mponline.gov.in.
 Sources said the exam will have to be postponed as there is little time left to conduct exam.
 
 "Entire process of conducting exams is a 90-day process. Vyapam is left with hardly 60 days. In this situation, it would not be possible for the board to conduct exam," said a senior official of Vyapam without quoting his name.
 
 About process, senior officials said conducting exam is a lengthy process, which starts from requests by the department that wants to conduct exam for different vacancies.
 
 "Vyapam has to release the notification mentioning the qualification and other guidelines about the exam. These are based on the information provided by the concerned department. Without such information, Vyapam can't release exam notification," said the senior official. Since December 2015, Vyapam has stopped conducting offline exam.
 
