NEW DELHI: Pakistan's   has told syndicates dealing in fake Indian currency notes (FICN) to wait for a minimum two years before resuming business, as it may take that much time to copy the superior features of the new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 note.

 "Intel inputs reveal that post-demonetization, most Pakistani FICN syndicates have either closed shop or moved to narcotics business. Pakistan's ISI has told them to wait for 2-4 years, the time it will take to copy the superior features of the new notes," an officer of the Central intelligence establishment told TOI.
 
 The inputs, based on intercepts and chatter picked by Indian agencies, set to rest speculation and fears that the high-quality features of the new currency notes released post-demonetisation may have been counterfeited. It has in fact proven that the FICN seized over the past weeks is nothing but an inferior photocopy or scan of the original, mostly done by local criminals or small-time syndicates. 
 
 Putting an end to the FICN menace was stated by the Modi government as one of the prime objectives of  .
 
 On Thursday, the West Bengal police seized fake Rs 2,000 notes, with a face value of Rs 55 lakh, from Kolkata. A case was registered at Watgunge police station and five persons, all from West Bengal, arrested. An examination of the seized notes however found them to be mere photocopies of poor quality, said Central intelligence agencies. 
 
 "Just like the fake Rs 2,000 notes seized by West Bengal police from Murshidabad and Malda over the past weeks, the latest seizure by Crime Branch, Kolkata, comprises poor-quality fake Indian currency notes (FICN). A giveaway is that all the notes (2,750 in all) bear the same serial number," a intelligence official told TOI. 
 
 Photos of the wads of seized notes shared with TOI show all visible notes at the top of the pile bearing the number "2BG 460056".
 Incidentally, contrary to claims by West Bengal describing the Rs 2,000 fakes notes from the recent seizures as high-quality FICN, NIA and the Central intelligence agencies have assessed them as either photocopies or at best scanned copies, with a cheap metallic strip cut into pieces and pasted on the note, being passed for the security thread. 
 
 About 7-8 seizures of FICN have been made in the past few weeks. All of them have been found to be poor photocopies, with most notes from a single seizure bearing the same serial number.
 
 According to intelligence sources, local Indian criminals or small-time criminal syndicates are using one note and making multiple copies to pass them off as original. 
 
 In the pre-demonetisation FICN seizures, Pakistan-based syndicates had managed to visually imitate them up to 90% in design.
 
 
