Summer is the time for nature to put the brightly coloured   or bhirandam fruits on their trees, mainly in India’s Western Ghats region. Seven species of this garcinia indica are endemic to the Ghats, growing its dense canopy of leaves and yielding fruit even with little or no care.
 
  It is no wonder, then, that Goans, as in the rest of the Konkan, learnt to harvest this fruit in the summer and devised ways to use it year round. Just like the mango panh or panak, the fresh bhirandam fruit is also used to make a refreshing summer drink.
  
  The fruits are washed and broken open to separate the seed and outer rind. Adding water little by little, the pulp is extracted from the seed and skin of the fruit. As bhirandam are known for their sourness, one requires at least half a kilo of jaggery for the extract of every 15 medium-sized fruits. Dilute the mixture of the pulp and jaggery to a thin, transparent consistency and add salt and pepper and cardomom powder to taste.
  
  The skin of the fruit left behind can then be dried in the summer sun to get the blackish solam, which are preserved and used as a souring agent in  , in place of tamarind, round the year. Usually, the rind of bhirandam are dried without extracting the pulp and if you have made your solam after taking the pulp from it, you will need to add more of them to achieve the sourness you desire.
  
  To store the kokam extract like a squash, much after the summer is gone, add minimal water when extracting the pulp and add jaggery and salt to it and bring the mixture to a boil. Cool and store in a bottle in the refrigerator. This squash can be preserved for up to six months, if done right.
  
  If you are not a fan of sweet drinks, just soak the dried   into some water and squeeze the sourness out of them. Add salt, finely chopped green chillies, asafoetida and coriander and dilute with water to make a drink of thin consistency. This footi kodi is usually had following a meal and is believed to help digestion. But one may also gulp it down as a drink with a ting of jaggery for taste.
  
  Kokum also gives us the famous Goan sol kodi, with coconut milk, had as an accompaniment to a rice meal.
  
  Solam are also locally used to rub on insect bites for relief from the sting.
  
  They are especially useful when cooking local forest produce like aalloo, surran and maadi, which are rubbed with the sollam so that they do not irritate the mouth on eating. The solam are rubbed on the hand while cutting these foods too, to safeguard the hands from the itching sensation.
  
  Sollam are a key ingredient in tisreo sukhem, the vegetarian gravy tondak where sollam add the flavour in the absense of onion in the masala and in the mixed vegetable Goan khatkhatem. It goes with any fish curry too.
  
  If you have a kokum tree in your reach, the tender, reddish leaves of the tree are also edible and carry the same sourness as the fruit. Eating these leaves with salt is just a fun, childish thing to do, if you find yourself in the Western Ghats, near a kokum tree in the summer.
