NEW DELHI: More than 20,000 sanitation workers of east Delhi went on an indefinite strike from Friday, threatening to turn East Delhi into an eyesore of garbage-lined steets and overflowing dhalaos, much like June last year. The workers, mostly fourth-grade employees, say they have not been paid for the past two months. The BJP-ruled East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) says it won't be able to pay employees next month either and an uncooperative AAP government is to blame.

 By Friday afternoon, dhalaos were spilling over in West Vinod Nagar, Mandawali, Patparganj and Shakarpur while silt rom the drain on New Patparganj Road, cleaned by PWD, remained piled on the roadside near eateries. "Normally, the dhalao is cleared by 10-10.30am but today, it is already overflowing.
 
 If it goes on like this, the road will be blocked by tomorrow," said 21-year-old Babu, who collects garbage from apartment complexes in Patparganj.
 
 Safai karamchari unions held a dharna at the corporation headquarters in Patparganj Industrial Area while demonstrations were carried out at RR depot as well.
 
 Protesters also dumped garbage outside deputy CM Manish Sisodia's office.
 
 
 
 
 The stink has already started reaching the park," said R K Verma, 55, a resident of Vinod Nagar. "Today, the garbage has been dumped right at the front gate of the colony.
 
 Civic workers say they are on strike as they have not been paid salaries. As long as BJP and the Kejriwal government keep fighting, we will continue to suffer."
 
 Workers will protest outside the office of Krishna Nagar MLA S K Bagga on Saturday said  , leader of the Delhi unit of MCD Swachhata Karmchari Union. Anil Kumar, a nullah beldar who was on dharna outside the EDMC office, said, "The budget process is going on inside but no one thinks about us. Forget about arrears, which we have not received in the past 13 years, they have not paid our salaries for the past three months. We are being punished for others' mismanagement." Vinod Kumar, 29, another employee, said, "Thousands of employees have been reduced to taking loans and borrowing money on interest. Even shopkeepers have refused to give us credit.
 
 This is our last resort." EDMC mayor   said the Delhi government was to blame. "It is unlikely that we will be able to pay the salaries even for next month. We have sent our demands to the Delhi government. As soon as they are met, the crisis will be over. I have met the cabinet secretary and lieutenant governor today for releasing the fund," she said. 
 
 A finance department official said Rs 65 crore would be needed to pay all fourth-grade employees (around 20,000).
 
 The corporation's problems are not restricted to sanitation workers, though. Doctors and employees of the education department have not been paid since October. "If our salaries are not paid by January 16, when schools reopen, we will join the protest," said   of the Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh. Corporation officials said the government had failed to implement the Fourth   despite repeated reminders.
 
