He is the king of   in  , who has introduced   with   in the land of Sheiks.   is the brain behind `Kulcha King' and `China King' in Dubai.
 
 “I always wanted to do something through which I could relate to my native place, Amritsar. This sentiment resulted in the launch of Kulcha King in 2010. I introduced genuine dal makhani, lacha paratha and tandoori kulcha, all made of home-grown ingredients, to the food corridors of Dubai.With a very modest start, we have passed through various learning curves since then,“ Sethi, managing director of King Group Hospitality, a company that was started by his father Manjit Singh Sethi in 1972, said.
 
 “Initially it was only oneman show. We stared with a team of two with one 16-seater restaurant in 2010. I was doing everything myself, right from serving guests, delivering food, and handling outdoor catering. However, by the grace of God, we became a family of 300 with 11 outlets in 2016,“ he added.. However, it was not an easy run for Sethi (37). The concept emerged out of frustration and dejection stemming from his first career choice of real estate in Dubai.
 
 “I moved to Dubai in 2008 and started with real estate brokerage but very soon I realized that convincing people to buy and sell property was not my cup of tea. Therefore I decided to do something really creative and ventured into food business and started Kulcha King.However, we have sold this brand to a Saudi investor because now I am concentrating upon diversification of my food business in the whole GCC region and India,“ he pointed out. Recipient of the `Best Casual Dining Restaurant in UAE' award (2015), Sethi is settled in Dubai with his wife and five-year-old daughter.He has an extended family and friends based in Amritsar and he visits the holy city quite frequently.
 
 “Being a part of Punjabi community itself makes us feel proud especially when they recognize our good work. We always try to encourage and be a crucial element to support various community gatherings and d i a s p o r a a c t iv i t i e s i n Dubai,“ he added.
 
 In expansion mode
 
 It's true that hard work never goes unpaid and this is what happened in the case of Sethi.In January, Sethi has sold his chain of restaurants to a Saudi investor for AED28 million ( US$8 million). “In 2017, I will be expanding my food business in India and in other GCC nations.We are all set to go global,“ stated Sethi.
 
