Visakhapatnam: Even as the state government prepares to hold the next Partnership Summit to invite investments into AP in general and Visakhapatnam district in particular, three major   mooted before the previous year’s summit have hit roadblocks due to various reasons.

 The three major industrial projects are a thermal power plant at Pudimadaka, an electronics manufacturing cluster at Pendurthi and a logistics park at Anakapalli.
 
 NTPC (National Thermal Power Corporation) had proposed a 4,000 mw ultra mega power project at Pudimadaka, located about 60 kms south of Vizag, over an area of around 1,200 acres with an investment of nearly Rs 26,500 crore. The project was initially scheduled to be fully commissioned by 2019. However, NTPC sources said a decision on the coal linkage is yet to be taken up by the central government due to which the project is yet to take off.
 
 Incidentally, according to sources in the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC), while the public hearing for the project was already held in August 2015 and the compound wall also constructed as part of the process to earmark the land, the delay in decision on coal linkage has put the project in limbo.
 
 The second project is the electronics manufacturing cluster (EMC) spread over an area of more than 100 acres near Pendurthi on the outskirts of the city. According to APIIC sources, the lack of an anchor client is leading to the delays in setting up of a full-fledged cluster in the district. The APIIC sources observed that while the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) had given its nod for the project in June earlier last year, the project is yet to gain traction. “We are hoping that the project will take off as it is one of the key projects for attracting electronic manufacturers. We are working on bringing electronic manufacturers to the city,” said an APIIC official.
 
 At the same time, the third project which is yet to take off is the mega logistics park planned at Anakapalli over an area of nearly 400 acres. The project was planned to be taken up jointly by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) and the state government. However, with the feasibility study done by VPT indicating that cargo traffic may not be up to required levels, the project is expected to be delayed. “Unless there are some major industries that begin operations in and around Vizag or in the hinterland of north coastal AP in the near future, a new logistics park will not be viable as the existing multi-modal logistics park developed by Concor and Balmer Lawrie among others may be sufficient to meet the demand,” noted a VPT official.n
 
 
