Mumbai: With new-age companies such as Uber and Google challenging traditional automobile players with innovative technologies,   has shifted gears by setting up an incubation unit to design a new breed of cars as it aims a podium finish in the domestic passenger vehicle segment by 2019. The unit   is part of the company’s strategy to boost its passenger vehicle business that has been a drag on the company’s finances for some time now. TaMo is also the name stock market dealers and analysts use for   Motors. 

 Tamo will have strappings of a start-up, operating on lean business model. It will function as an open platform collaborating with global tech companies to access trends, designs and innovations of mobility products and services. It will roll out niche products sporting the Tamo brand, with first car set to debut at Geneva Motor Show in March .
 
 While Tamo is housed within Tata Motors, some auto companies have their marque as separate entities, for instance Infiniti of Nissan, Lexus of Toyota and Mini of BMW.
 
 “New players are entering the traditional car segment, causing disruption. Through Tamo, we intend to turn challenges into opportunities and secure our future,” said  , MD of Tata Motors. The initial plan for Tamo was seeded when   was the automaker’s chairman and in August 2016 its board had approved the move.
 
 Besides Tamo, Butschek has streamlined the organizational structure and cut costs to turn Tata Motors profitable. “We would like to make the passenger vehicle business financially self-sustaining,” Butschek said.
 
 The German national who will complete a year at Tata Motors on February 14, said that the company would gradually reduce the number of platforms from six to two to increase production efficiency. With the older platforms to be replaced, it raises uncertainty over the future of the company’s small car, Nano. “No decision has been taken with regard to the  ,” Butschek said.
 
 “If you would like to succeed in the entry-level hatchback segment, which we consider the most competitive one, you need to have a platform which is extremely made to the point to have huge volume leverage,” he said. 
 
 Nano was one of the bones of contention in the battle between Mistry, former chairman of Tata Sons, the holding company for Tata Motors, and  ,   interim chairman. Mistry had said that despite the Nano consistently losing money, it was not taken off production purely because of emotional reasons.
 
 
