JAIPUR: The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has on Thursday asked the police to   and offer   and   who have been receiving threats in the state. 

 The rights organization cited the case of 70-year-old subaltern historian Kusum Meghwal, who has received death threats allegedly from members of Rajput Karni Sena (RKS), infamous for attacks on filmmakers Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Ashutosh Gowariker for alleged distortions of history.
 
 Two years ago, Meghwal had published a book in which she had argued that far from being a Rajput, Maharana Pratap was actually a Bhil.
 
 But in recent months, the author started receiving obscene phone calls along with threats of death, allegedly from Sena members.
 
 According to media reports, last month, Meghwal informed the police at Ambamata police station, Udaipur, her native city, about calls from unfamiliar numbers by people who claimed to be either members of Karni Sena or the Thakur caste.
 
 She had said that the callers threatened her over the book. In February, the state government had courted controversy over school textbooks stating that the 1576 battle of Haldighati, between the forces of Maharana and Akbar, was won by the former.
 
 Following Meghwal’s complaint, SP Prasad had told PTI that they were looking into the threats.
 
 Neither historian Meghwal nor Udaipur superintendent of police Rajendra Prasad answered TOI’s calls.
 
 Lokendra Singh Kalvi, founder member of Karni Sena, denied that the organization was behind the threat calls. “If the police have phone numbers, they should track the callers and take action. How can all threat calls be attributed to us?” he asked.
 
 In the press release, PUCL also listed other instances of threats issued to authors, historians and Dalit activists and claimed that an undeclared censorship was being imposed. “In a democratic set up, those whose sensitivities are offended by works of literature are free to approach the courts for redress,” PUCL said.
 
 “It’s as if writers have to approach the police and ensure their own security. That is the responsibility of the state,” said PUCL’s Kavita Srivastava.
 
 
