It was with great excitement that Malayalis welcomed the news that   would be playing Madhavikutty in a biopic  , on the iconic writer and poet, to be directed by Kamal. 

 The jinx of Vidya Balan's Malayalam movies never taking off was finally broken, everyone thought. However, it looks like the jinx is still on, unfortunately. A spokesperson from Vidya Balan's team has confirmed to us that Vidya has indeed opted out of Aami! The reason, says the source, is 'creative differences' between Vidya and Kamal. 'Vidya liked the script and still would like to do the film. But something was added to the final script at the last moment which she didn't approve of. Also, she usually has extensive discussions with the writer and director of a film to get into the skin of a character. But in this case, she has not been able to be part of such discussions, which bothered her,' says the source.
 
 'Vidya is an actor who likes to be fully prepared before she steps on to the set. She goes that extra mile to own the character, and enjoys the process of film-making in its entirety; spending time with the director and writers and collaborating as a unit, which wasn't the scenario with this film.'
 There was a rumour doing the rounds earlier this week that Vidya had backed out of the project as she and Kamal had different views about PM Narendra Modi's stands, which Kamal opposed and Vidya was in favour of. Kamal had even been branded anti-national by a group of people while Vidya has been a regular presence in Government sponsored ads. However, the source pooh poohs the idea. 'Vidya has never had any political allegiances and political differences was not at all the reason why she opted out.' The source goes on to add, 'Vidya respects the director and the entire team working on the film. She opted out of the film in the most amicable and professional manner. Any other reason being cited is untrue.'
 
 Earlier, it was Vidya herself who announced at an award function in Kerala that she would be part of Kamal's Aami, something which even Kamal hadn't announced at that point. She had been looking forward to be part of the film and had told us that she was reading up on Madhavikutty and also learning Malayalam for the role. She had also expressed her happiness at having broken the 'jinx with Malayalam films.' It has to be recalled that the 2003 film Chakram was to be directed by Kamal and supposed to be the debut of Vidya Balan, with Mohanlal in the lead. Kamal later dropped the project and Lohithadas directed the movie, with Meera Jasmine and Prithviraj in lead roles. 
 
 It remains to be seen whether the project Aami will still be on without Vidya Balan. Despite repeated attempts, Kamal did not respond to calls or texts, and thus it remains unclear as of now.
 Vidya's upcoming film is Begum Jaan and she is also part of Tumhari Sulu, where she plays an RJ.
 
 
