KOLKATA: If you are finding it difficult to fix a hassle-free route for pandal-hopping, here is some good news for you. Apart from the interactive   Map, which is there for years now, over half-a-dozen mobile apps are up for downloads to provide a live Puja locator-cum-ready reckoner this year.

 Every year, in a bid to outdo each other, a section of big Puja committees influence the traffic movement around their pandals. “Some put up ‘no entry’ boards while others make stretches ‘one-way’. This is nothing but one Puja committee’s target to score over the other in terms of footfalls. Pandal-locator apps can provide a solution to this problem,” said Sweta Bhattacharya, who works in a private sector bank on Park Street. 
 
 Esri India, a GIS provider, has just launched its ‘Pandalhopper’ mobile app that provides a 360° view of a pandal along with the food and shopping stalls around it. The app provides information on the availability of car parking and traffic movement.
 
 “As a GIS major, the challenge was to come up with an app that locates zone-wise top 10 pandals in seconds. The roads with ‘no entry’ and ‘one-way’ signboards can easily be traced on our app, which follows an alphabetical order on the pandal list,” said  , president, Esri India.
 
 “Mobile apps have added flavour to this Puja. I find them to be an offshoot of the Google Map. These are pretty interactive and have an easy-to-use interface,” says  , an electrical engineering student from  .
 
 In 2016, Kolkata Police had come up with the ‘Utsav’ to fix the traffic menace. This year, the app has added new features for better performance. Kolkata Police deputy commissioner (traffic) V Solomon Nesakumar said, “UtsavApp comes with necessary services such as a SOS button, location of nearest police kiosk or hospitals. If one goes missing while pandal-hopping, his or her relatives can share details on the app.”
 
 Titan Sonata has clocked a perfect timing by launching ‘Sonata Sharodia Guide’ this Mahalaya. “The app aims at providing modern touch to the traditional festival,” said Titan CMO Suparna Mitra. 
 
 Keeping the tourist rush in mind, the state tourism department has also launched a navigation app — ‘Sharadotsav’ . The ‘zone-wise Puja’ section is divided into seven groups — North Central Kolkata, Port Area, South Suburban and South West, South and South East, Siliguri, and heritage Pujas in old zaminder houses along with pictures.
 
 “Many football lovers are coming down to Kolkata from different parts of the globe to watch witness Under-17   World Cup. We think the app will give them an idea of what Durga Puja is all about,” said Sekhar Seth, the app developer.
 
