BHOPAL: A day after the   of a student in a pond on  , the movement of students around the water body continued while there was neither any deployment of security personnel nor any fencing put up around it to curb the recurrence of such incidents.

 When the TOI team visited the pond on Sunday, it found students and people moving freely around the same spot where the incident took place. “The pond is close to Shabri Nagar where there is no wall and people can freely move in and out. At night, the area around the pond becomes a picnic spot for the students. Anti-social elements were also seen moving around several times,” said a resident, pleading anonymity.
 
 Incidentally, security personnel of   were keeping record of vehicular movement at the main gate. “This is just to show that security on the campus has been beefed up. There is no security around the pond. There is no light in this huge area. MANIT seems to be waiting for another tragedy like Saturday,” said a student without quoting his name. Round-the-clock patrolling and deployment of guards at an annual expenditure of Rs 1.8 crore has failed to prove its efficacy on MANIT campus. At least 140 ex-servicemen from a private security agency guard the campus, but they are missing in action whenever they are required the most. When contacted, MANIT authorities refused to comment on the issue.
 
 Meanwhile, MANIT has decided to strictly implement the bike ban on the campus with the immediate effect. Bike will be handed over to the traffic cops, if any student is found it plying on the campus. MANIT authorities called a meeting of head of the departments and deans, where it was decided that vehicular movement will be checked at both entry and exit points. “All cultural and technical events have been postponed till further notice,” said a MANIT official.
 
 MANIT has directed students to sign an undertaking that they will not keep bike with them. Sources said students who fail to sign the undertaking will not be allowed to write paper in the exam, which is scheduled to kick off from Monday.
 
 A get-together of final year MANIT students on campus took a tragic turn on Saturday evening when a 24-year-old student drowned in a pond. The deceased, Abhay Anand, was a native of Urai in Uttar Pradesh. Police had found beer bottles at the spot where the incident took place. Anand, the final year student of civil engineering, along with his batchmates reached the pond to celebrate passing-out day. 
 
 BOX: Digging work led to formation of pond
 
 Heavy digging was done for construction work on MANIT campus in 2014. However, the area turned into a pond following rainfall. In 2015, the then director Appu Kuttan had declared to convert the pond into a boat club. A couple of boats were also put in it, but the idea could not work. Since 2015, the area has turned into a haunted place with large bushes and a huge water body. No security personnel are deployed around the water body.
 
 Father claims Abhay didn’t know swimming
 
 Victim’s father   reached Bhopal on Sunday. He wondered why Abhay jumped in the pond when he did not know swimming. Police said they are recording the statements of all the students present during the celebration. Around 20 students were present there at the time of incident. 
 
 
