GURUGRAM: It took a shower that lasts barely 10 minutes on Monday for   and  , which water standing for hours afterwards.

 Residents of   got agitated as water on the street made its way into their homes and left behind  , which took hours to clean. “My first concern is: who will mop the floor? I’m quite old now. Last time, it was my daughter who washed all the dirt and mud that had entered the house,” said Amrita, a resident of Sector 14.
 
  TOI also received reports of waterlogging from  , DLF Phase 3 and Palam Vihar. “National media is today debating about potholes in Mumbai. But even Gurgaon is an important city. Does it auger well that our city should hit the headlines for potholed roads?” said Arvind, a resident of Sector 56.
 
  MCG said it had halted all construction work due to rains. “We’ll resume our work after monsoons. All roads will be repaired and reconstructed. We have installed water pumps in many areas that will suck out excess rainwater. In any special case, where MCG is unable to reach a spot, residents can call on our toll free number,” said S S Rohilla, MCG spokesperson.
 
 Traffic snarls were another major problem on a working Monday, as commuters had to face long jams on the expressway. Traffic on Old Delhi-Gurgaon road, Manesar toll and Hero Honda Chowk moved at snail’s pace.
 
 The problems were aggravated by long and frequent power cuts in DLF Phase 4.
 
 Discom officials said power cuts in DLF were a part of maintenance work and residents were already informed via their Urja Mitra app.
 
 “I have some 98 feeders in DLF and only two witnessed breakdowns due to rains, but they were rectified within 10 minutes,” said Kuldeep Nehra, sub-divisional officer, DLF (City).
 
 A sunny afternoon after the showers increased the humidity levels in the city. The maximum temperature reached 31 degrees Celsius, while minimum dropped to 26 degrees Celsius.
 
 The Indian meteorological department has predicted more rains on Tuesday as well. “We are expecting precipitation along with thunderstorms across NCR on July 25 as well,” said a senior weather official.
 
 
