NEW DELHI: With the civic elections just months away and memories of the recent   in east Delhi still fresh, deputy chief minister   on Friday okayed a loan of Rs 200 crore to the cash-strapped east corporation solely for payment of salaries and pensions till March 31.

 A senior government official said the amount had already been released. “This is over and above Rs 602 crore sanctioned earlier and the payment under the non-planned head. The corporation has said its monthly bill for salaries and pensions is Rs 133 crore while the annual revenue is Rs 800 crore,” he said. A senior official of the corporation’s finance department, however, said the civic body was yet to receive the amount.
 
 But the east corporation is not happy. “To pay 25,500 employees for January, February and March, we will require over Rs 400 crore. Many of our employees haven’t been paid since either October or November,” said mayor   while terming the step as an act of “dirty politics”.
 
 On January 8, the corporation was given an “advanced sum” of Rs 119 crore for paying sanitation workers who were on strike over non-payment of their dues. Sisodia then said the BJP-ruled civic body was “wasting” money. While the 18,000 sanitation workers were paid their dues of two months, 7,500 others remained unpaid. While Group A and B employees haven’t been paid since October 2016, Group C and D workers — other than safai karmacharis — have been facing the same situation since November. 
 
 For paying pension, salary and arrear dues of all employees from October 2016 to January 2017, the civic body will require almost Rs 270 crore. The total bill, till March 31, will be around Rs 538 crore. 
 
 The mayor said the amount was far from what the corporation required. “We have repeatedly mentioned it in our demand notes. Instead of our rightful share, they have released a measly amount of Rs 200 crore with which we will only be able to pay the sanitation workers.” Calling it a ploy to only stop sanitation workers from striking until the civic elections are over, she said, “This will reduce the civic body to shambles.” 
 
 Sharma further alleged that the amount released last time were actually under various non-plan heads such as primary education and maintenance of resettlement colonies. “But they asked us to use that money for paying salaries instead. We also need to spend money for these critical functions.” 
 
 
