PUNE: A man posing as an inspector from the Mumbai police’s crime branch duped a jeweller of Rs 1.5 lakh after threatening the latter with police action for purchasing stolen articles.

 The man told the jeweller that a criminal case would be registered against the latter if he did not pay him.
 
 Fearing police action the Gultekdi-based jeweller sent the amount to the suspect on September 9. However, the suspect started demanding money again. The jeweller then approached the   police through the jewellers’ association and lodged a complaint. 
 
 Machhindra Pandit, inspector of the Swargate police told TOI that on September 8, the jeweller received a call from one Ajay Pal, who told him that he was an inspector from the Mumbai police’s crime branch. “The caller told the jeweller that he can implicate him in a false case,” Pandit said.
 
 The suspect also intimidated the jeweller by claiming that he was in contact with the officers in the Pune police.
 
 Pandit said the suspect demanded Rs 1.5 lakh for not registering a case against him. 
 
 On September 9 the suspect told the jeweller to go the Pune railway station and hand over the parcel containing cash to a taxi driver. “The jeweller met the taxi driver and handed over the parcel to him,” Pandit said.
 
 A probe revealed that the suspect collected the parcel from the taxi driver somewhere in Mumbai, he said. The taxi drivers plying between Pune and Mumbai deliver small parcels by charging nominal amount. 
 
 The police suspect that the caller may have used this facility to get the money. “He never came to meet the jeweller,” Pandit said.
 
 After receiving the money, the suspect again started calling the jeweller and demanded more money. “The terrified jeweller then approached the association and came to the police station,” Pandit said.
 
 The police booked the suspect under section 170 (personating a public servant) 420 (cheating), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Suspects tricked Mumbai traders same way
 
 A probe by the city police revealed that the same suspect has duped a few traders in Mumbai using the same modus. Sub-inspector   is investigating the case.
 
 
