BENGALURU: The   on Monday reiterated that there was no ban on Rs 10 coins even as more complaints of refusal to accept them, including banks, poured in.

 Banks are reportedly turning away customers who want to deposit money in Rs 10 coins despite the   to accept them as the coins are  .
 
 “If a bank refuses Rs 10 coins, customers can lodge a  ,“ a   said.
 
 It all started a month ago when a few banks told customers, who had come with bags full Rs 10 coins, that there wasn't enough space for them. Soon, rumour spread that Rs 10 coin was no longer legal tender, flooding banks with even more people wary to keep the coins with them.
 
 “It's true that we refused to accept Rs 10 coins in bulk. The RBI encourages   notes or coins to be in circulation rather than getting deposited in banks. Only soiled notes or damaged coins of lower denomination are readily accepted. But that doesn't mean that Rs 10 coins are banned,“ said a senior nationalized bank official. Banks are short of space for these coins with currency chests already full with the scrapped notes, he added.
 
 The RBI had issued a notification on November 20 last year clarifying that Rs 10 coins were legal tender .“It has been reported that some less or uninformed persons who suspect the genuineness of such coins are creat ing doubts in the minds of people including traders, shop-keepers...,“ said the RBI notification.
 
 Despite banks claiming to have resumed accepting Rs 10 coins, it has done little to dispel the doubts in people's minds, with some city shopkeepers putting up notice boards saying they don't accept Rs 10 coins.
 
 Venkatesh Prasad, 29, a law professional, boarded a BMTC bus in Kodihalli for Shivajinagar on Friday .The bus conductor refused to accept the Rs 10 coin he gave. Prasad later complained to the BMTC officials at the Shivajinagar stand.
 
 A media professional was on Monday told by an auto driver that he wouldn't accept Rs 10 coin as the PM had announced on TV that they have been banned. She had to give a note to him.
 
 
 
 
 Banks refusing to accept ten rupee coins, which the RBI has clarified is legal tender, is in bad form. It's an indication that bank officials are not completely aware of the rules or that they are unable to communicate clearly to their customers, if, for some reason, they don't accept bulk deposits of coins. In an age when widespread sharing on social media can give legitimacy to the most ludicrous of claims, the public must guard against unfounded reports.
 
