While the malls say they are yet to get any official instruction before they can waive off parking fees, MCG officials say letters have been sent out, and visitors continue to park on the road and service lanes, leading to jams.

  Last month, Gurgaon's civic authorities exempted commercial properties on MG Road and   from paying property tax levied on their basements so that they could waive parking fees without incurring losses. The 45 properties given these exemptions include the half a dozen malls on MG Road. "We have specifically chosen MG Road and Sohna road since illegal parking is rampant in these areas. People generally don't park in the basements as they have to pay for it. Now that parking there has been made free, we hope people would not leave their vehicles on the roads and cause unnecessary congestion. Mall owners have promised to not charge parking fees from users if we waive property taxes on the basements," MCG commissioner V Umashankar was quoted as saying. However, more than a month after the instructions were sent out, malls on MG Road continue to charge parking fees from visitors. While the malls say it is because they haven't received any official word on the matter, the development has meant that motorists continue to park out on the road, leading to bottlenecks and jams.
 
 
  
  Gurgaonwallahs and mall officials at MG Road say that since there has been no official communication about parking fees in the malls, people continue to park their vehicle on the road (BCCL/  )
 
 
 When the GT team visited MG Road earlier this week, we found that all malls in the area continue to charge parking fees. Rakesh Jain, an Udyog Vihar resident, tells us, "I went to   last week and assumed that the parking would be free now. But they are still charging for it. When I asked the attendants why it wasn't free yet, they said they hadn't received any instructions about free parking."
 
   , a resident of Golf Course Road, adds, "I read in the papers that parking in the malls was going to be free, but nothing has changed here. The attendants are unaware about any such development and you can't argue with them either. They say they are just doing their job and if we want to complaint, we should talk to the mall management. The authorities should spend some time enforcing an order after they pass it."
 
  
 Mall officials say that parking charges continue to be levied because they haven’t received any official communication about the move. An official from   says, "We haven't received any written instructions about making the parking free, so we are continuing with the status quo. We have no problem with the move, but we need to be informed about the same."
 
  
  Despite the traffic police putting up 'no parking' signs, people continue to park outside malls on MG Road, leading to jams? (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  A representative of Sahara Mall adds, "Even we read about the move in the papers, but we have no idea when it is to be implemented. As soon as it is communicated to us, we will make arrangements for the parking to be free." When contacted, MCG officials said that official communication had been sent out and they would look into the matter and ensure free parking in the malls at the earliest.
 
  
 Since malls continue to charge parking fees, motorists are still parking out on the road and service lanes in front of the mall, leading to congestions and jams throughout the day, particularly during the evening peak hours. A guard posted outside MGF Metropolitan Mall says, "Log pehle ki tarah baahar hi park kar rahe hain. No parking ka sign hai phir bhi. Isse road par jagah nahin rehti hai aur jam lagta hai. We try and tell them to park in the basement, but nobody listens."
 
  
  
 
  Rajneesh Singh, a Sector 52 resident who parked his vehicle on the service road, says, "If you park your car in the mall parkings, it takes ages to get out, plus you also have to pay for it. It's more convenient to park the car out here, and it's not like this space is used for anything else. Plus, most people park here for only a couple of hours. I think they should regularize this parking instead of making the mall parking free."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
