BHOPAL: A wedding ceremony organised in Bhopal on Monday turned out to be memorable for around  . The   had invited these children from various shelter homes to be a part of his  . Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also took part in the baraat with these children.

 Chandresh Shukla, a dentist, tied the knots with Dr Devashree Shukla. “I wanted to make the day special for these children. I think my marriage was the best occasion to live the dream,” said Dr Shukla. The ceremony took place at a private hotel in the city.
 
 The kids, aged between 3-18 years, were invited to the ceremony and were treated to a feast. The event became alive as the vibrant kids danced to the tune of the dhol. “The sheer joy reflecting on their innocent faces was unbelievable,” a guest said.
 
 During the marriage, some of the children also took part in a painting competition. “We enjoyed a lot. It’s good to see such people who are sensitive about us,” a participating child said. The newly-wed couples also distributed gifts to them after lunch.
 
 Another participant said: “I have never seen a marriage function like this. We have enjoyed all the time. The children are supposed to be happy and chirpy. Our aim was to put a smile on their faces which ultimately motivates them to grow as individuals.”
 
 Chief minister Chouhan said this is a significant and highly commendable social initiative to share a happy occasion like marriage with these children. “The joy, apparent on the face of the children taking part in the baraat, increased the sparkle of the marriage ceremony,” said Chouhan. He also congratulated the new couple for sharing their joy with these children.
 
 Chandresh Shukla, who is also the vice-president of the Dental Council of India’s MP unit, joined the children in their ‘pursuit of happiness’ amid his wedding processions.
 
 Raghvendra Sharma, chairman, Child Rights Panel, said, “Such way of enjoying the wedding ceremony gives you a different feeling.” He has set an example for others in society. Minister of State for micro, small and medium enterprises Sanjay Pathak and the relatives of the groom and bride were present on the occasion.
 
