MUMBAI: Step out of the metro and walk straight into your office or a mall, without stepping on to the road.A common feature the world over, it may soon be a reality in Mumbai. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) is inviting offices, shopping complexes, malls to build connectivity from a metro station to their premises.

 U P S Madan, metropolitan commissioner, said this can be done only if the metro stations are close to the offices or malls. For instance it is in talks with the  , which has a huge workforce, to build a skywalk to the bourse from Metro-II B.
 
 “The idea being people don't have to come out on the road to reach the office.It also means that many fewer people on the road,“ he said.
 
 A similar connectivity is A similar connectivity is being planned to two big malls on the New Link Road--one at Goregaon (Inorbit Mall) and the other at Malad ( ). This connectivity will be given from the Metro-II A line.
 
 “While we are building the metro, businesses interested in having this facility will have to pay for the cost of construction of the connectivity. And of course they will also have to pay a premium to the MMRDA as we will be driving footfalls to these places,“ said Madan. He added the amounts are still to be worked out.
 
 The world over, it is common to have metro stations that open straight into museums like the Louvre Museum, Paris, the American museum of Natural History, New York, shopping malls, offices etc. In Chennai, the Ashok Nagar metro station has a skywalk to a cinema theatre. Moreover, in Navi Mum bai, at the Seawoods railway station, the Harbour Line platform of   leads to a newly opened mall.
 
 Heritage conservation architect Vikas Dilwari said such planning is okay for new areas if it can be integrated, but in places like DN Road and   which have a large number of heritage buildings, it would have to be careful and sensitive. “It may solve one problem but may create several others,“ he said.
 
 Nitin Killawala, architect and activist, said in several countries one arm of the metro opens into a mall.“It is a good idea but there are not many malls along the metro routes. MMRDA should also connect the metros to bus depots. The bus depots are also being modernised and it will help create an integrated transport network,“ he said.
 
 However, a resident of Kanchpada, Malad, said the metro station earlier planned for Kanchpada had been moved towards Infinity Mall ostensibly to boost the mall's business. whereas the previous alignment would have benefited local residents.
 
 “There are over a lakh residents at Kanchpada and the metro would have been very convenient for us but now we have to walk at least a kilometre to take the metro,“ said the resident.
 
 An MMRDA official said what was being referred to was the earlier metro which was proposed as an underground line. However, the present Line II-A has now simply been made an elevated metro and no station has been realigned.
 
