PUNE: The Uttamnagar police on Sunday arrested a 65-year-old   driver for allegedly molesting a 10-year-old girl over the past year.

 A police officer said the girl is a Class 5 student of a school in Uttamnagar near Warje. “The driver has been ferrying the girl to and from school for the last five years. The girl and her parents had no issues with the driver earlier,” he said.
 
 Irate relatives of the girl ransacked the van after learning about the alleged molestation. The police have now seized the vehicle.
 
 The driver has been booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the   (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. On Monday, a magisterial court remanded the driver in police custody till March 15.
 
 The matter came to light after the   took her to a medical counsellor in a city-based hospital as she had been reclusive for a few months and her academic performance was declining. After a few sessions, the girl disclosed the traumatic experience to the counsellor, who immediately alerted her mother. An  , following which the police picked the driver from his house in Warje.
 
 “The mother was shocked when the girl told her that the suspect, whom the girl used to call ‘driver uncle’, had been molesting her inside the van since last April,” the officer said, adding that the girl was too frightened and depressed to tell her parents about the incident.
 
 In her complaint, the mother said the driver would drop her daughter last. “He used to insist that the girl sit in the front seat with him after dropping the other students,” the officer said.
 
 Ferrying schoolkids for 15 years
 
 Uttamnagar police sub-inspector S N Nikam said, “The driver stays with his family in the Warje area and has been ferrying schoolchildren for the past 15 years. He had an autorickshaw earlier but started using a van of late.”
 
 An officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will further probe the case as the driver has also been booked under the Atrocities Act.
 
 
