While it is no secret that Team India head coach   has been negotiating with the   for a better pay packet for the players, especially those playing Test cricket, Mumbai Mirror can reveal that he has made two demands that have completely flummoxed the cricket board.

 During the presentation to the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators overseeing the BCCI’s functioning and the board members in Hyderabad on Sunday, Kumble said that the national team captain should be paid 25% more compared to his teammates, as he was the one answerable for the team’s performances and shoulders extra responsibility. 
 
 Kumble also demanded a permanent role for the head coach on the selection committee, saying the coach sees the players’ form, fitness, and temperament first-hand, and it is necessary to consider his inputs before selecting the squad.
 
 While captains and coaches in the past have demanded a role on the selection committees, the BCCI said the clause of ‘captaincy fees’ was unheard of in cricket. If approved,   – who joined the Hyderabad conference via a video call – could get a salary hike of Rs 1.25 crore (he earns around Rs 5 crore currently).
 
 Kumble did not respond to messages but the BCCI sources confi rmed his twin proposals. The BCCI sources said Kumble also demanded an annual increment of 10% for the players and the support stuff.
 
 As per the BCCI pay structure, Grade-A players get a retainer amount of Rs 2 crore annually, Grade-B players Rs 1 crore, while Grade C players get Rs 50 lakh. This is besides the match fees of Rs 15 lakh for a Test, Rs 7 lakh for an ODI, and Rs 3 lakh for a T20 game.
 
 Kumble has proposed a revised pay structure wherein players who play all the three formats get paid the highest, besides a 30% salary hike from himself (from Rs 6 crore annually to Rs 8 crore), and a hike for the support staff consisting batting coach Sanjay Bangar and fielding coach R Sreedhar. He stressed that both Bangar and Sreedhar should be retained.
 
 Kumble has his own views on how the national team should function, a BCCI source said. “He wants professionals to be appointed as administrative, media, and logistics managers against the current system wherein state association officials are appointed managers on a series-by-series basis,” the source said.
 
 The BCCI has conveyed to Kumble that such proposals can only be discussed at the board’s general body meeting. “The next AGM is in September when the matter will come up for discussion unless the BCCI decides to convey a special general body meeting. Obviously the challenge before the BCCI and the Committee of Administrators is to work out a solution to the players’ demand of a salary hike,” the board source said.
 
 
