NAGPUR:  , a movement which takes film festivals out of the throes of pseudo intellectualism and sponsored screenings, will be organizing its first three-day event in the city from September 15 to 17.

 To be held at   auditorium, the festival will showcase over 32 films and documentaries including, all-time classic Garm Hawa. The event will begin at 5pm on September 15 and end late evening on September 17. It will have ‘Idea of India’ as its theme.
 
 The festival targets young audience and the niche ones like housewives, teachers and residential localities. It aspires to create a cultural sphere where issues of social relevance can be viewed, debated and discussed. “We unite the creative filmmaker with his audience who will appreciate and empathize with the work,” says Sanjay Joshi, the national convener.
 
 The first film festival under the banner was organized at Gorakhpur in 2006. The movement has grown over the years attracting the best names in filmmaking and activists who join hands to utilize the platform that this initiative offers. This will be its 61st edition.
 
 “Technology became a liberator over the last decade. It empowered the common man to put his views on celluloid without much ado and also reduced the cost of holding such festivals,” says Joshi.
 
 But the idea of using cinema was debated extensively at a 2005 meet of cultural activists under the umbrella of   from where the movement got its roots. Till then, the film society movement was confined to European cinema. “But we decided to link it to various people’s movements which were taking place in our country,” says Joshi.
 
 Unshackling the festival from bureaucratic tendencies, the organizers have consciously shied away from restrictive genres or rules. “We keep accommodating content even as late as three days away from the date of the festival. We have shown raw footage if we find it to be significant or even portions of films which are still under production, if we feel it has some relevance to the selected theme,” he says, adding, “The duration of films has varied from 3 to 130 minutes.”
 
 Relying totally on local volunteers and people’s funding, the movement prides in not ever having accepted funds from governments, NGOs or corporates. “We have cancelled film festival for lack of funds but do not believe in taking money from those who are actually at the crux of miseries,” he says. 
 
 Over the last decade, these film festivals have helped in breaking regional barriers for different issues with a nationwide churning of ideas. “In between film screenings, debates and discussions are held with filmmakers and talks are given on different aspects of filmmaking and its grammar,” Joshi adds.
 
