HYDERABAD: It's been fifteen years since the enactment of  , but lack of effective implementation has ensured that child marriages continue unabated in the state. As per 2011 Census, there were over 5 lakh child marriages in undivided Andhra Pradesh.

 Now, the   has written to   raising concerns over poor implementation of the Act which was rolled out in undivided Andhra Pradesh in 2002 and adopted by Telangana in December 2014.
 
 Addressing a press conference on Monday , commission chairperson Tripurana Ratnam said that young girls and boys were being married off as there was no pressure to register. “To curb child marriages happening at village and mandal level, it is important for every marriage to be registered.But unfortunately the state government is not serious about implementation of the Act due to which it still continues,“ said Tripurana Ratnam.
 
 Incidentally , in 2016, as many as 400 children who had been sold as child brides or were being sexually abused were re scued by Mahbubnagar police.
 
 Ratnam pointed out how registration of marriages would also help prevent irregularities in the implementation of various state government schemes such as Kalyana Lakshmi and   under which brides are offered financial assistance. “Once the marriage is done, the government must ask for the marriage certificate from the couple. Registration of marriages will also help women if they face any distress in their married life.Desertion of women after marriages can also be prevented,“ said Ratnam.
 
 She suggested that the government also include details such as quality of gold and gifts given by the brides' family in marriage registration form so that in case of a dispute the same can be reclaimed by the bride. She also praised chief minister  's move to provide financial assistance of Rs 1,000 to single women in the state.
 
 Raising concerns over increasing number of rape cases in villages and districts, the commission sought the constitution of a committee to expedite inquiry .“A special team of police must be constituted in rape cases where the investigation can be carried out on a dayto-day basis so that justice is delivered faster. We have heard many cases wherein women who are mentally challenged or old are raped. In such cases, the police must take action immediately ,“ said Ratnam.
 
