Coming from a Tier-2 town, I have spent my entire life, from education to job in the same city. I always dreamt of going to metros, earlier for education and later for work, but all I got from my father was an adamant NO. I tried everything, from crying, not eating food, to not doing anything but nothing worked. Gradually, even I was conditioned into the comfortable life I was living.

 Then I read the book titled ‘The Palace of Illusion’ by Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni and read a chapter on how Draupadi was made to do all sorts of un-queenly things including sleeping on floor, wearing cheapest clothes to prepare her for any adversity in future. This really struck me and it stayed in my mind for a very long time. In November 2016, I told my father about the story and mentioned how he had not prepared me well for life. And how in order to be future ready, I should be allowed to go to Mumbai. Call it Paanchali’s magic or my karma, he agreed to send me out for a job search.
 
 Since I was dependent on my father for supporting me financially, I tried to live a very frugal life. I learnt the relevance of budgeting, which until my visit was some unspoken mediocre word. In my city, everyone I knew had their own personal vehicles and we hardly had to walk to the destination. In Mumbai, I took everything from a rickshaw, bus, train, share rides, cab to even walking a mile just to save a meager amount of Rs 18.
 My room was one interesting place. The entire size of the room was almost equal to the size of my bed, which I had to share with a girl. The brighter side was that I didn’t have much area to clean and maintain. Moreover, I eventually became immune to heat, that even at 40 degrees, I can manage with a fan. Saiyam (control), which until now I had experimented only with food, became my lifestyle. One slipper, one loafer and I travelled the length and breadth of the place. I even risked using my training shoes for running.
 
 Do you get irritated when mom asks – what you want in dinner? Not only did I plan my breakfast, lunch and dinner, I even bought groceries. Till date, when I see a green grocer, I instinctively see what all fruits and vegetables he has and unfailingly their price. I hardly knew how to cook when I came to this city and now don’t be surprised if I am crowned the next master chef. I have had help to clean my cupboard and place clothes all my life, Mumbai taught me how to wash them too. Such is my money management that I feel grateful for my vintage phone, which dies at 30 per cent battery.
 
 Call it adversity or an opportunity, my life is not the same. Living alone has made me cry and laugh; disgusted and accepting; weak and strong. Every time I wanted to give up, I kept saying – if Draupadi can do it, so can I. It was an experience of a lifetime, which has made me open to a possibility that I am up for anything and everything and that not only can I survive but I can excel and master it.
 
 
 
 
