Aravind Gunasekar’s first few days at Jawaharlal Nehru University were tough. He couldn’t differentiate between the various languages he was hearing. "I thought they were all speaking Hindi," says the Erode resident who completed a Masters in International Relations at   last year and is now a journalist in New Delhi. 

 Each year, hundreds of   head to JNU or Delhi University and most, especially those from small cities and towns, experience a strong sense of isolation.
 
 Associations, sabhas and student organisations can help them adjust, say scholars, but more important is to improve the quality of education.
 
 Dalit scholar Stalin Rajangam says, "Many rural students find English and Maths quite challenging." The Thorat committee recommendations to uplift the status of minority students and teachers, he feels, should be implemented. "Educational institutions should take steps to improve teacher-student relationship, to overcome language problems, give special coaching to rural students for language, attitude and on research methodology."
 
 The difference in curriculum, agrees Aravind, is among the most difficult to overcome. His classmates formed groups of four for all academic work, but he found it difficult to find a place "as students from Delhi and other states choose only their friends."
 
 Honeyshya R faced similar problems at Miranda House. "Students from TN come from different economic backgrounds, and they form gangs among themselves. Many speak only to those who know Tamil, and don’t try to learn Hindi," says the 19-year-old political science (honours) student from Coimbatore. Honeysha and her friend Devadarshini, a B Com student of Shri Ram College of Commerce, last month gave a representation to the TN school education department describing how TN students, used to a syllabus driven by rote learning, are unable to cope with application-centric learning at DU.
 
 The atmosphere on campus is another problem, particularly for students from poor families. "Even small mistakes — in terms of dressing — are made fun of," says Rajangam.
 
 Shehla Rashid, former vice-president of JNU Students’ Union and an M Phil student, disagrees. "JNU is a friendly campus," she says, adding that the "admission assistance" programme involves seniors and staff members trying to make new students comfortable. But, "language is the most obvious barrier," she admits.
 
 "Many students come here with a lot of difficulty from far-flung areas and don’t know anyone  . Only some have working knowledge of Hindi," she says. 
 
 Many South Indian students are now leading organisations on campus, says Rashid. The union at JNU is demanding the formation of a ‘translation cell’ to help translate "fundamental texts which everyone has to read" from English to other languages.
 
 Susan Visvanathan, professor of sociology at JNU’s Centre for the Study of Social Systems, says many TN students come to Delhi seeking better prospects but often "don’t have financial or family support". "They come as strangers and tend to feel alienated. And there is a lot of violence all around..." Further, there is a "North-South divide and the varna [caste] divide". Students from South India "come with their own sense of worth and they face North Indians’ deafness to South Indian history, and feel out of place," she says.
 
 For the situation to improve, there has to be a "revival of the sense of justice, of being human, of understanding the plight of the other through dialogue and discussion". 
 
 
