SURAT: The  ,  , has entered into polished diamond business. 

 For the first time, De Beers will pilot the sale of its own polished diamonds using auction on June 29. The sale will comprise a wide range of  , manufactured by a third party diamond manufacturing contract. 
 
 Diamond industry experts believe that De Beers’ new venture will give pace to Indian diamond industry. If successful, the process would give De Beers more information about polished prices, while also helping buyers fill gaps in supply or inventory if they were unable to find goods at the company’s rough auctions.
 
 India is the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre with annual exports in polished diamonds pegged at over $22 billion. 
 
 Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “The new venture of De Beers is only going to benefit India, which is the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre. The polished manufacturing and auction will help De Beers gain market knowledge on pricing, which will automatically reflect in its rough diamond pricing.”
 
 Lidbide added, “None of our diamond companies in India spend money on branding and advertisement. At least, the industry will be benefited from advertisement spend by De Beers and its new technology and R&D may help boost manufacturing quality in India.”
 
 Neil Ventura, executive vice president of auction sales, De Beers Group, said in a statement: “We have a limited amount of a wide range of polished diamonds, so it makes commercial sense for us to try auction on our existing platform.”
 
 “We are interested in testing the level of demand from polished buyers for diamonds that have a clear and attractive source of origin, and that offer the assurance of product integrity that dual certification provides. Meanwhile, a successful auction would also generate an additional polished price reference in the US dollars per carat. In addition, this will complement our existing rough auctions and enable buyers to fill supply and inventory gaps if they were unable to secure supply at our spot and forward auctions for rough diamonds,” added Ventura.
 
 Independent diamond analyst in New York, Paul Zimnisky, in an email query, said, “I don’t see this as De Beers hedging the diamond industry’s dependence on Indian cutting industry, rather it is more of a strategic move to better understand its own diamond product and how its stones cut, polished and optimally yield polished diamonds. I think, De Beers is looking closer at how the polished market receives its diamonds from a pricing standpoint so that it can use this information as a proxy for pricing its rough diamonds.”
 
