By Jitender Dabas 

 India has become perhaps the most branding-savvy nation around. When it comes to marketing and branding, we have arguably the most proficient leadership in the world right now. From successfully   big economic initiatives such as ‘Make in India’ to branding outreach campaigns like ‘Chai pe Charcha’ and ‘Mann ki Baat’ – and even our military operations (‘surgical strikes’). 
 
 But our recent branding successes are not limited to just these. 
 
 We are now successfully branding our political opponents (‘Pappu’, ‘Feku’, etc.), and have learnt to brand people who think differently from us (‘Bhakts’, ‘Sickulars’, ‘Aaptards’). We are labelling and hashtagging them with impunity. Welcome to a nation that has discovered the power of branding like never before.
 
 The modern word ‘Brand’ is derived from ‘Brandr’, an ancient Norse term meaning ‘to burn’. It referred to a mark burned on cattle to show ownership. Individual ranches would each have their own unique mark so that ownership could be determined if their animals were lost, stolen, or strayed among animals from another ranch. 
 
 ‘Brandr’ meant, literally, ‘labelling your cattle’
 
 The commercial use of branding goes back to when people started to brand their products, to establish their superiority and sell them at a premium. Advertising was used to enhance the appeal of a brand; by weaving a story, a meaning would be given to the brand. 
 
 Once established successfully through advertising, the branding becomes a sort of shortcut that helps eliminate options and leads to quicker decision-making. 
 
 Brands are the labels we buy, and the task of advertising is to give meaning to those labels. Such branding is positive, because it serves the purpose of helping people make better – and easy – choices.
 
 But there’s also another kind of labelling, where you brand people. 
 
 Here, we are labelling not to differentiate ourselves but others. Such branding emerged when sociologists began to label people to create homogeneous groups identifiable by common traits – from ‘Hippies’ in the 1960s to the ‘MTV Generation’ of the 1990s to the ‘Millennials’ in the 21st century. One interesting attribute of this is that we often brand people without their consent, and such labelling is not necessarily positive.
 
 This type of branding has seen a sharp rise in India’s public discourse, with people labelled on the basis of their belief systems or their points of view. While powerful branding allows individuals to suspend their judgment and trust the label, and at times helps make life simpler, it is far from useful when it comes to people. 
 
 Because people are complex and multifaceted, and when we apply labels to them, we put on blinders and see only a narrow view of a multidimensional human being.
 
 Another attribute of labelling others, according to psychologists, is the attempt to grant ourselves superiority over them. That’s precisely what we are doing on our Facebook pages or in our Whatsapp groups – we are busy branding those who don’t agree with us. So creating a brand and popularising it is no more the sole domain of consumer goods and services companies.
 
 But when such labelling is orchestrated, and funded, in a planned way, it becomes more serious. Now, political parties intentionally propagate and popularise negative labels as strategy. 
 
 Labels like ‘Pappu’ or ‘Feku’ are not accidental creations; they’re often structured to direct our thinking and judgment in a particular way. And such labelling is built on the principles of traditional branding. 
 
 So, next time you receive a joke or a funny video with a hashtag or a label, do wonder whether someone is subjecting you to a branding exercise. And yes, when next you have a debate with people on your (or someone else’s) timeline, try winning it without labelling your opponent.
 
 (Jitender Dabas is Chief Strategy Officer, McCann World Group, India) 
 
