NEW DELHI | KOLKATA: The Centre has asked West Bengal to strongly deal with fringe groups that are demanding the removal of a statue of Bangladesh’s founding father, Sheikh  , from a Kolkata hostel ahead of next month’s crucial visit to India by her daughter – now Premier of the easterly neighbour -  .
 
  Fifteen groups, led by the   (ABMYF), have demanded the removal of the statue at the  , claiming statues or idols hurt Islamic religious sentiments. The demand surfaces ahead of Hasina’s April 7-10 visit, during which Dhaka and New Delhi are expected to sign several agreements across a broad swathe of subjects related to economics and regional security.
  
  Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, styled Banga Bandhu, was a student in the 1940s of the then Islamia College – now Maulana Azad College – affiliated to Calcutta University. The ABMYF demanded removal of his half-bust statue from the century-old Baker government hostel in central Calcutta. The statue was installed by the Bangladesh government in 2011.
  
  Six years later, the groups described it a fight between ‘Indian Muslims and the Bangladeshi government’. However, with New Delhi keen to get a raft of agreements approved, it does not want any local issue to vitiate the atmosphere ahead of Hasina’s visit.
  
  “The timing of the protest is ominous. It appears that some anti-Hasina extremist forces are behind this move. The Hasina government in Dhaka has taken a series of measures against terror groups in the past few weeks. The West Bengal government has to ensure that the situation does not spiral out of control. The message has been sent to the state government,” people familiar with the development told ET.
  
  Recently, letters sent to the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, the Minister of External Affairs, and the West Bengal Chief Minister claimed that the presence of a statue in an Islamic institution, with a mosque inside, was “polluting the religious environment and affecting the sanctity” of the area.
  
  “In Islam, the establishment of a statue is unethical and (an) anti-Islamic thought. How is it possible to set up the statute of Banga Bandhu Sheikh Mujibar Rahman in an Islamic educational institution? It is the question of secularism. We respect him for Bangla language, but we do not support installation of his statue inside Baker hostel, where there is a mosque,” the ABMYF wrote to External Affairs Minister  .
  
  Experts on Indo-Bangla relations said that these fringe groups are trying to flex their muscles on local support in West Bengal. There has been an exodus of extremists from Bangladesh after the crackdown by the Hasina government, and they are getting shelter in West Bengal, experts said.
  
  Recent reports said that a number of Bangladeshi terrorists affiliated to JMB and HUJI are taking refuge in West Bengal,  , and Tripura. This will further stress the need for both countries to enhance cooperation on counter-terrorism and take more de-radicalization initiatives.
  
