JAIPUR: Rajasthan   issued notice to the Indian railways over ‘discriminatory’ refund rules on cancellation of waiting tickets booked online and through reservation counter.

 The division bench of Chief Justice Pradeep Nandrajog and Justice V K Vyas issued notice on a PIL by Sujeet Swami.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner Sajid Ali said, while the online ticket reservation which are not confirmed on preparation of chart are automatically cancelled and refunded in to the bank account of the passenger whereas the ticket obtained from reservation counter if any ticket remained in the waiting list after preparation of the chart, the passenger had to go to the reservation counter for cancellation to get his ticket amount refund.
 
 The chart is made four hours before departure of the train and the time available for the passenger is just three and half hours as ticket had to be cancelled half an hour before the departure of the train. If one fails to cancel the waiting list ticket during this period, the entire amount is forfeited.
 
 The petitioner said, this is blatant discrimination practiced by the railways between the internet ticket and reservation counter ticket holders and is illegal and arbitrary.
 
 On this account, the railways had earned Rs 1,621 crore in 2014-15 and Rs 1,536 crore in 2015-16.
 
 The petitioner said earning without providing any service is discrimination towards poor passengers. Generally, a poor person with no access to internet goes to the ticket counter for booking, he said.
 
 The petitioner also suggested to make amendment to the reservation form to include the bank account number of the passenger and IFSC code of the bank so that all the waiting list ticket irrespective of the mode of reservation could be automatically cancelled and the amount credited in to the account of the passenger.
 
 Court notice on non-construction of flyover: Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has issued notice to the   (NHAI) and the state chief secretary over non-construction of a flyover at Kanwarpura under Kotpulti tehsil on Jaipur–Delhi National Highway (NH-8).
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari issued notice on a petition by Ramchand Jangir.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner   said, a flyover has been sanctioned by the NHAI at this point in 2012 following several fatal accidents resulting in the death of 49 people and injuring 145 people so far. But till now, the flyover has not been constructed. The court sought the details of the flyovers on this national highway and asked for the reasons of not constructing sanctioned flyover there within two weeks.
 
