Visakhapatnam: In a huge relief for PG medical students admitted under the  , the High Court on Thursday temporarily suspended  , freeing them from the mandate of having to work as senior residents for a year in their parent institutions.

 Ever since the GO was issued, students admitted under management quota were up in arms over the new regulations regarding senior residentship and staged protests across the state, demanding a rollback of the order and suspension of the ongoing counselling.
 
 Welcoming the move, the Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors Association said the GO was issued with a view to benefit private institutions.
 
 The GO mandated students admitted under management quota to work as senior residents for one year in their parent institutions, which was not the case till 2016. The norms are also applicable to students who passed out in 2017.
 
 As per the GO, an honorarium of Rs 28,000 for PG diploma candidates, Rs 33,000 for degree candidates and Rs 41,000 for PG super-speciality candidates will be paid per month for the candidates admitted under  . An honorarium of Rs 50,000 for PG diploma and degree candidates will be paid per month for the candidates admitted under management quota by the institute.
 
 Until 2016, students from the private colleges were free to work even at government colleges after completion of their education. Under the new regulations, all colleges in the state, including private colleges, were allowed to begin the senior residentship programme.
 
 Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors Association (APJUDA) president Dr U Raghuram said the government’s nexus with the private medical colleges was once again exposed with the GO.
 
 “Our efforts reached fruition. The HC has directed the state government to conduct re-counselling for the residentship programme. Even to work with the government institutions, we want that the government increase the honorarium” said Raghuram.
 
 Dr Ambati Naga Radhakrishna, PCC Doctors’ Cell Co-Chairman, questioned the government’s motive in providing senior residents to private medical colleges through the order. “The GO issued by the government is just to favour private institutions. Why is there disparity in pay for management and convenor quota candidates when they have the same degree and qualification?” he asked.
 
 “Health minister Kamineni Srinivas has ignored the interests of the common public. It’s a shame on the part of the minister to be saying that they have no information about the deaths of 16 tribals in Chaparai of East Godavari district. The health minister should resign taking moral responsibility for the deaths,” said Dr Radhakrishna.
 
 
