VARANASI: Death toll in Friday's 
  in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh allegedly rose to 21 till Sunday morning. However, the Azamgarh administration confirmed only 12 deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. 

 The Azamgarh police carried out a massive operation against hooch manufacturers and traders on Saturday night. While nine persons were arrested, an illicit hooch manufacturing unit was unearthed. Azamgarh SP AK Sahni said those arrested had been booked under appropriate sections of the IPC, including 272, while the process of booking them under the Gangster Act had also been started.
 
 District magistrate Chandrabhushan Singh had already ordered a magisterial probe and assessment process for compensation has also been started. 
 
  
  
 
 
 According to reports, one Badri Rajbhar (55) of Azmatgarh, who was referred to SSL hospital of BHU on Saturday following sharp deterioration in his health condition, died on Sunday morning. Due to consumption of spurious liquor as many as nine residents of Kevatahiya and neighbouring villages in Raunapar police station area of Azamgarh district died by Friday evening and several others took ill. Later, two more persons died during treatment in late night. On Saturday, six others, including two, who had been referred to Varanasi, lost their lives. The superintendent-in-chief of district hospital Dr G L Kesharvani said that two critically ill persons were referred to Banaras Hindu University hospital in Varanasi. 
 
 Since Friday, 13 people died in Raunapar area and four in Jiyanpur area. "So far we have information of 12 deaths out of which two persons died due to illness in their house," the Azamgarh DM told TOI. When asked about the death of 17 people, the DM said that the matter was being examined how many deaths occurred due to some illness or other reasons. He said that a magisterial investigation has been ordered into this matter.
 
 Azamgarh SP AK Sahni said that action is being taken to prevent such incidents. Besides, action has also been taken against three erring police personnel and excise department officials. Raunapar SO Nadeem Ahmad Faridi, beat SI Santosh Kumar and beat constable Shashi Kumar have been suspended. 
 
  Chief minister Adityanath Yogi took serious note of the incident and directed stern action against the accountable persons. Six excise department personnel, including excise inspector Sanjeev Kumar, were also suspended.
 
 Meanwhile, an FIR has been lodged against those persons involved in the trade of illicit liquor. According to Azamgarh SP (Rural Area) NP Singh, four different cases have been registered against five persons at Raunapar police station, while investigation is on for the incident in Jiyanpur area. 
 
 Those dead in Raunapar area include Rambriksha (70), Charitar (85), Shiv Kumar (18), Syampreet (40), Ramnayan (70), Sobari (40), Keshaw (42), Satyadev Ram (32), Ram Avadh Ram, Bajrangi, Ram Karan, Badri Rajbhar (48) and Vinod Sharma (38). In Jiyanpur area four persons including Ramnayan (45), Moti (48), Phoolchand (50) and Ravi (18) died. 
 
