GURUGRAM: Four members of a vehicle stealing gang were arrested on Thursday night following a brief encounter with policemen on the compound of a vacant farmhouse, where they had taken refuge, near Sohna. An assistant sub-inspector suffered minor injuries in his hand during the crossfire.

 The police recovered two motorcycles, three country-made pistols, three revolvers and 40 cartridges from them. The kingpin of the gang,   alias Pannu, who is wanted in several crime cases and has a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, is still at large.
 
 The four arrested have been identified as Pawan alias Pona (24), Gaurav (21) from Vikas Nagar in Panipat, Sanjay alias Pehalwan (24) from Chirsami village in Sonipat and Vinod alias Sandeep from Mabtan in Jhajjar. They all lived in Kakrola in Delhi.
 
 Around 10pm, Gurgaon police’s crime unit 5 got a tip-off that the four accused were attempting to steal a vehicle in Sohna and were hiding in Ansal farmhouse nearby. A police team led by inspector Arun Kumar decided to conduct a raid there. As soon as they surrounded the area, the gang opened fire. 
 
 The cops retaliated and ASI Kamal Singh picked up an injury. The four were caught.
 
 An FIR has been registered against under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault), 186 (obstruction from duty) of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Sohna police station.
 
 Inspector Arun Kumar, in-charge of the crime unit, Sohna, said, “The two motorcycles recovered from the accused had also been stolen from Sohna some days ago. The four were getting ready to steal another vehicle on Thursday night when we arrested them. The accused are professional criminals and members of the Rakesh alias Pannu gang. The arrested accused were also wanted in some cases in Panipat. Rakesh, the gang leader, is a most wanted criminal involved in many heinous crimes like murder, robbery and vehicle theft.” 
 
 The gangsters were produced in a city court on Friday and sent to judicial custody.
 
 
