Researchers have found that a combination of five simple, newer tests is more effective in predicting cardiovascular disease than looking at the lifestyle factors alone. After studying a group of healthy individuals for more than ten years, the researchers found that those who scored poorly on all five tests were 20 times more likely to develop heart disease than those with good results.

 Researchers have found that performing five simple medical tests together will provide a wider and more accurate assessment of the risk of heart-disease. The researchers stated that performing these five tests together will provide a better prediction of the risk of heart disease as compared to standard strategies. These five tests include a 12-lead ECG, a coronary calcium scan and blood tests for C-reactive protein, levels of BNP and high-sensitivity troponin T. Hospitals regularly use troponin testing to diagnose heart attacks, but high-sensitivity troponin fine-tunes helps to indicate any small damage which is usually missed in individuals without any symptoms or warning signs. Four of the five tests are currently readily available and the fifth high-sensitivity troponin T will be available soon. Unlike the currently recommended approaches, the set of five tests extends the risk prediction to include the likelihood of heart failure and atrial fibrillation, along with a better predictor of heart attack and stroke. 
 
 
 
 
 A 12-lead electrocardiogram, also known as an EKG/ECG, is one of the standard tests used to measure the electrical activity of the heart muscle. It's non-invasive, painless and quick and it's considered one of the best ways to assess heart disease risk. 
 
 
 
 
 A coronary calcium scan is a low-radiation CT scan that reveals the amount of calcium built up in the coronary arteries. In general, lower levels of calcium in the arteries are linked with better  , while high levels may indicate an increased risk of heart attack or other cardiovascular events.
 
 
 
 
 The first of three blood tests used to assess heart disease risk measures the amount of C-reactive protein, or CRP, in the blood stream. CRP rises with increased inflammation in the body, which is an underlying condition of many health problems, including heart disease. A CRP test can indicate if a patient needs to take preventive measures to block heart disease before it starts
 
 
 
 
 
 A chemical known as brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), is a hormone released by both the brain as well as the heart in response to cardiovascular stress. A blood test that shows a high level of BNP is a red flag that indicates that the heart muscle has stiffened and may not relax as well as it once did.
 
 
 
 
 Troponin T test is a highly sensitive blood test that measures the levels of a protein known as troponin T. A typical troponin test can only pick up on large quantities of the protein, released during strenuous events for the heart. However, the new version can detect much lower levels of troponin T and identifying the smaller quantities of troponin allows doctors to begin treating heart damage early, rather than waiting for a heart attack or stroke. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
