AHMEDABAD: Downstream of the glitzy riverfront at Narol Bridge lies the dismal truth about the condition of what was once the life-giver for the city for six centuries — the  . 

 Laden with human excreta, bacteria, and chemicals, this toxic concoction is used by 45 villages to grow vegetables, which are later pushed into the markets of Ahmedabad.
 
 A recent study conducted by IIPH-Gandhinagar and the Centre for Development Research of the University of Bonn, involving 652 households in villages located on the banks of the   river, has found high levels of Escherichia coli (E.Coli), the bacteria that has contaminated even the drinking water of these households. The water samples showed very high levels of E. coli contamination — an average of 85 MPN/100 ml and the maximum of 1,700 MPN/100 ml.
 
 While WHO standards require that potable water not have any E. coli, the study found that more than 80% of water had more than 1 MPN/100 ml of it, and was non-potable. 
 
 “The risk of water-borne infection increases with higher E. coli levels in water,” says the research carried out by Ruchi Vangani, Deepak Saxena, Nicolas Gerber, Dileep Mavalankar, and  .
 
 “Households using canal water and wastewater for irrigation had poorer drinking water quality than households using tubewell or rain water for irrigation,” the study says. The study said that irrigation water (wastewater, or from canal or tubewell) played an important role in transmitting microbial contamination to domestic drinking water through human and animal interactions with irrigation water. 
 
 The study says, “Notably, contamination at the point of water source (POS) was also high, with 73% of the households getting contaminated water from their POS.” 
 
 The study says that 45 villages along the downstream of the Sabarmati river and seven villages in Gandhinagar use wastewater for irrigation. In four villages in the Ahmedabad district — Timba, Miroli, Navapura and Khodiyar — and two villages in the Gandhinagar district (Sabaspur and Jaspur) the use of wastewater for irrigation was extensive.
 
