CHANDIGARH: The City Beautiful wants to grow but at the same time preserve its unique character.

 An unlikely group of prominent citizens of the city belonging to diverse background, who had gathered at the   on Sunday for a roundtable organised on the occasion of the first anniversary of Unesco's heritage status to   on the theme, "Is it time to move beyond Le Corbusier?" by The Times of India, found a common ground.
 
 They were of view that restrictions imposed in the name of Le Corbusier need to be relaxed, but in a controlled manner, so to preserve the character and heritage of the city.
 
 Chandigarh, being the country's first planned post-independence city, was designed for a population of 5 lakh. Today, its population has crossed 10 lakh and by 2021 the figure is expected to cross 15 lakh and around 20 lakh by 2031.
 
 Rajnish Wattas, an expert of Le Corbusier's work and former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA), said: "Had Le Corbusier been alive, he would have addressed the problem of urbanisation. He was a great innovator."
 
 Le Corbusier had conceived the master plan of Chandigarh, which was developed in two phases. The master plan was conceptualised as analogous to human body with a clearly defined head (Capitol Complex), heart (the city centre, Sector 17), lungs (the Leisure Valley and open spaces), intellect (cultural and educational institutions), circulatory system (network of roads) and viscera (Industrial Area). The phase III of the city comprising sectors 48 to 56 was later designed and developed by the Chandigarh administration.
 
 Terming Capitol Complex as a "sacred zone", Wattas, who also moderated the conference, said that it cannot be stretched up to far end of the city.
 
 "After the sacred zone, there is an everyday city, where there is lot of room for need-based changes," said Wattas who also advocated for vertical growth, within a limit, in phase III of the city.
 
 B N Goswamy, distinguished art historian and professor emeritus of art history at  , opined that administration needs to be cautious while allowing changes to meet the ever-rising demands of residents. "There are many things which Le Corbusier could not anticipate and we need to address those issue, but at the same time ensure that heritage of the city stays intact," said Goswamy. 
 
 He further added that the residents should not exhort undue pressure on administration. "We need to be very careful and nothing should be done in a haste, else we will end up killing the goose that lay golden egg," advised Goswamy.
 
 UT chief architect   called for need to shift the focus from Le Corbusier to the city. "The man did a great job and gave us a mandate which has so worked for the city. He has gone and the onus is on us to take the city forward," said Setia.
 
 "The administration has always considered genuine demands of residents and will continue to do so. The challenge it to sustain, what has been made," added Setia.
 
 Pressing for changes,  , city-based businessman, said that the city has to evolve with time. "We all are living people with aspiration. The city should grow with us," said Saini.
 
