An energetic, edgy soundtrack that is experimental in parts, yet very mainstream in appeal ' that's the music of   (OMA) for you. 

 From intense love to revolt, the lyrics have everything that would give youngsters a major adrenaline rush. At certain points it can get a bit so-so, but at the very next instant it doubly makes up for all of it and that's how OMA impresses.
 
 The first song Akasha Kuda by Nithin Raj and Sulfiq starts off with a lively yet melodious tune and beats. The lyrics have a gay abandon feel, which make you stop and pay attention. Halfway through, the rhythmic pattern changes and though the second section isn't quite catchy, the song merits a listen.
 Living up to his reputation as a singer of breezy melodies, Vijay Yesudas sings the second song Ivalaro. The romantic song starts with verses of intense love. Though not one of those 'easy to hum' songs, the tune of the heavily raga-rooted composition is infectious. The interspersing Thiruvathira music adds nostalgia and they blend seamlessly with the romantic melody.
 
 One of the best songs of the album is Emanmarey by Shebin Mathew, which is insanely catchy. The song starts off with a drumroll of sorts that marks its arrival in style. The simple, yet appealing lines in the song like 'Vellaputhachu nadakkana kolangal kodikal kattalentha' nerampokkenna pol keriyiranguvaan njangade nenjundallo' pack a punch. It is definitely influenced by the numerous revolution songs a State like Kerala had in the past but beyond the genre influence, it stands all by itself.
 However, the next song Munneraan Samayamai by Franco is quite a slow, dragging track for such a theme. It does have the usual 'Laal salaam,' 'saghavu' et al, but it fails to save the song.
 
 The final song Kalippu Katta Kalippu, by Kabali fame Arunraja Kamaraj and composer Manikandan Ayyappa is something that you can either love or hate to the extreme. At first, you think it's all about the full-throated singing by Arunraja similar to his Neruppu Da, but as it progresses, it loses its energy. However, the inclusion of familiar slogans make it a 'power' song.
 
 
