JAIPUR: In December last year, after a training programme that lasted three weeks, about 100 young people chosen from some of the most prestigious educational institutions in the country, were granted the status of ' ' – young inspirers. Under this programme, the government of Rajasthan offers a fellowship of Rs 25,000 per month to youths to inform people in remote areas of the state about the various schemes of the state government. The fellowship programme could run up to two years.

 In a circular issued in June last year, the state department of planning (economics and statistics) said the internship programme aimed at "ensuring outreach of benefits of flagship government schemes to the beneficiaries residing in every nook and corner of the state."
 
 Speaking at a programme to mark the conclusion of their training, chief minister   said even top government functionaries were often unaware of the nitty-gritty of government programmes. Schemes like Bhamashah and the health insurance scheme of the government, Annapoorna Bhandars etc could be of assistance to the poor but are not used as widely as they should be. The planning department circular said the preraks would "generate awareness and enhance capacity to ensure that people are able to take benefit of government schemes."
 
 Just weeks after their initial training, though, some of the youth who signed up are opting out, disappointed. "I dropped out after 10 days of training. It was evident that the purpose of the programme was to engage people in propaganda for the BJP. I did not see this opportunity aiding me in understanding anything about governance or the government," said one young woman who asked not to be named. She said about four others had dropped out.
 
 Among those offering training to the preraks were state president of the BJP  . "Although some academics and bureaucrats also arrived to take sessions with us, it was clear that this was a party programme, judging from the people who taught us," the young woman said. The chief guest at the function at the conclusion of the training programme was V Satish, who works closely with BJP national president  .
 
 Yogesh Sharma, a prerak working in Ganganagar, however, said much good could come of the fellowship, "We talk to students in the higher levels of schooling and inform them about the different programmes and schemes of the state government, so that they in turn can go back and talk to their families about the facilities that the state government provides. We also attend what are called the   each week – these are held at the local level on Fridays, and offer people a chance to interact with officials who might be able to clear matters related to the Bhamashah programme or availing the Aadhaar card. We also have a few people who are termed "Vikas Mitras" – people in the villages whom we could reach and who keep up informed of what needs to be done for local development. This is a scheme with some potential."
 
