Noida/Ghaziabad: The   on Saturday transferred six superintendents of police, including Noida SP (city) and   SP (rural), in the two districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. The transfers are a part of 140 Provincial Police Service (PPS) officers shifted in the state and the list was released on Saturday. 

 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (rural), Meerut, has been made Noida SP (city) in place of Dinesh Yadav who has been sent to Lucknow as SP in Anti-Terrorist Squad. Dinesh Yadav was posted in Noida since April 12, 2015. He cracked several organised gangs and also busted some fake call centres. The credit of launching Noida’s Hi-Tech Cyber Crime Investigation (CCCI) centre also goes to him. The centre, equipped with sophisticated devices, which can analyse complicated digital data and also retrieve the data even if deleted from the phone or hard drives, was inaugurated by former DGP Javeed Ahmad on May 9, 2016.  , who has been appointed as the new SP (city) told TOI over phone that improving law and order situation will his priority. “I will ensure that the people’s grievances are addressed and resolved smoothly,” he said. Singh is likely to take charge on Monday. Meanwhile, Ramyash Singh, SP (crime) Noida has been sent to PAC Lucknow. Preetibala Gupta, SP (rural), Muradabad, has been made SP (crime) Noida. The post of SP (traffic), which was lying vacant for one month after Prabal Pratap Singh was sent as SP (city) Saharanpur, will be taken over by Anil Kumar Jha, who is presently posted as SP, Shamli. In addition to this, Abhinandan, circle officer, Greater Noida I, has been shifted as circle officer, Noida I.
 
 In Ghaziabad, Arvind Kumar Maurya has been named as the SP (rural). The post was lying vacant for the past two days after Om Prakash was transferred as part of the reshuffle of 67 IPS officers on May 17. SP (traffic) Rajesh Kumar and SP (crime) Praveer Ranjan Singh were also transferred out of Ghaziabad. While Shyam Narayan Singh is SP (traffic) of Ghaziabad, Brijesh Kumar Singh is the new SP (crime).
 
