CUTTACK: After his release on bail,  , who was convicted for raping a   in Rajasthan in 2006, on Saturday alleged that speedy trial of his case and his quick conviction was outcome of  .

 However, Bitihotra, son of former DGP,  , did not name any specific person or political party. Bitihotra alleged that without examining the   or testimony of the complainant, verdict in his case was announced. 
 
 “Obviously there was lot of political pressure due to which I was convicted in such a hurried manner. Hearing of any case in the country takes places for at least one to two years, but my case was decided within 13 days,” said Bitihotra. “Just to satisfy a German tourist and for tourism, I was convicted in such a hastily manner,” added Bitihotra. 
 
 Though Bitihotra expressed happiness over his release but he lamented that the relief came too late. “I am happy to get bail from   but the wait was really long. I and my family suffered a lot in all these years. Alike me thousands of under trial prisoners are languishing in jails across the country due to delayed justice. If a DGP’s son had to go through all this then just imagine the plight of a poor and illiterate prisoner,” said Bitihotra.
 
 Speaking about his life at Jaipur Central jail, Bitihotra claimed that corruption was rampant inside jail premises. “For even getting a match stick you have to pay bribe to the jail authorities. Life of prisoners is very tough and jail staffs harass them a lot. During my imprisonment I have seen the sufferings and pains of the prisoners very closely. Hence now I want to work for them,” said Bitihotra.
 
 Sharing his future plans, Bitihotra said he aims to study LLB following which he will work for betterment of prisoners. “I will fight for the cause of prisoners, who fail to get justice due to legal hurdle or financial problem,”.
 
 Bitihotra also claimed that he will stay in Cuttack now and take care of his parents and old grandmother now.
 
 After his conviction in rape case, Bitihotra in 2006 had jumped parole, which was granted to him on the ground of visiting his ailing mother. Almost seven years later, he was arrested from Kerala in March 2013 where he was living by changing his identity. Bitihotra had managed to get a job in a bank and was staying in Kerala under a fake identity as Raghav Ranjan. Bitihotra was released from jail on July 6 on bail.
 
