An exhibition of historic artifacts, organised by various departments of the Kerala University, in association with the state departments of archives and archaeology at the  , communicated stories of the bygone century to everyone who dropped in. The five-day exhibition aimed at the promotion of the scientific study of history provided history lovers with a unique experience of getting close to thousands of historical artifacts one usually sees only in books and documentaries.

    by the state archaeology department displayed the culture and lives of people of the state of the medieval times. “The objects displayed here include the artifacts that were household pieces used 300 years ago in Kerala. The music box made of brass from Europe has been brought in from Palakkad and highlights the musical sense of the age. The Omkaramani which was used by Buddhist monks, vibrates the Om sound when beaten in a special way with a wooden rod. The other pieces on display include weapons, different kinds of lamps, kitchen utensils, locks and a collection of archeological excavations in Kerala,” said Surendran, a staff member from the Kerala State Archaeology dept.
 
  The Dishavilakku was used in prehistoric times for black magic while the oorakkudukku was used for playing puzzles similar to the modern Rubik’s cube. The nanaya palaka (coin board used to count coins), Chithravadhakoodu used to punish the accused during the reign of Travancore and the Kanalkolu which was used by thieves in prehistoric times to drill houses for burglary generated curiosity.
 
  The department of aquatic biology and fisheries showcased artifacts shedding light on the state’s maritime history and trade through their exhibition Oceans: Past and Future. “We have arranged replicas of fishing equipment starting from Ottal used to catch fish in knee-deep waters to mechanised engine boats. However the Kattamarans are now extinct, as the lack of wood has made the fishermen opt for fibre boats. Around thousands of sea-life specimens with descriptions will help the common man learn about marine organisms from pipe fish to coral reefs. Also, the various equipment like hooks, nets, floats, weights, ropes and twines used by the fishing community over the ages are also on display,” said Anitha R, a volunteer and MPhil student at the department of aquatic biology and fisheries.
 
  The fair by the University’s archaeology department Signatures of Past Populace presented a wide variety of excavated historic artifacts like ancient tools, ornaments, terracotta, along with the Nannangadi, a megalithic burial monument the research scholars discovered from Nannangadikunnu near Palakkad.
 
 Meanwhile, Thalakshara, the exhibition by the Oriental Research Institute and Manuscripts (ORIM) Library under Kerala University, welcomed the viewers with a collection of age-old manuscripts written in palm leaves and tree barks. As the door of the hall opens, the scent of lemon grass oil greets the onlookers to a wide collection of rare calligraphy scripted in palm leaves and cloth. “We have more than 65,000 varieties of scripts written in palm, paper, tree bark and cloth. The oldest script identified is Oohaganam written in Devanagiri script from 1456 (1399AD), which includes vedas used for the Yagam. The 400-year-old handmade paper script of Mahabharatha written in Indonesia and original musical krithis of Swathi Thirunal are other highlights,” says Dr Sainaba, HOD of ORIM Library.
 
  The public including common man and research scholars were seen enjoying the expo with great interest. “The fair is very informative and awakens the child in us. The volunteers are very helpful and explained every facet legibly,” said Jayakumar S Chandran, a professor from Alappuzha.
 
