Kolkata: The police have sought details of Sunil Kumar Pandey’s treatment along with CDs of his surgery from Medica Superspecialty Hospital. While police said that this will constitute the first step of investigation, sources insisted the autopsy surgeon wanted to study the records before giving his final opinion. “The case hinges on the findings of the post-mortem report. Hence, we cannot take a chance here,” said an officer.

 The post-mortem report has apparently revealed marks on his chest which remain unexplained, prompting the autopsy surgeon to seek the details from the hospital on Tuesday. Pandey, who had been admitted to the hospital on March 6 after a massive heart attack, died on Monday. His wife Sujata lodged an FIR with Purba Jadavpur police accusing the hospital of negligence. On Tuesday, she visited the health department and sought a probe. Sujata has also sought an appointment with chief minister Mamata Banerjee as early as Wednesday.
 
 While Medica has denied the negligence charge, it said it has been asked for the documents. “We are getting the papers ready and will send them. There was no negligence on our part and we are ready to face a probe. Even though I can’t comment on the marks on the chest that have been mentioned in the autopsy, they might have been caused by the rigorous cardiac massage that had to be done to revive him. Often, ribs are left broken by such massages and marks are not uncommon,” said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica.
 
 Police sources said they already have a seven page write-up on the condition of the patient. This was reportedly provided to the family by the hospital. “We will write to Swasthya Bhawan to set up a medical board in this regard. We have been told about the cut marks on the chest. We might soon ask the concerned doctors to record their statement in this regard. This question will be at the top of our questionnaire,” claimed a senior police officer. 
 
 The family has also raised doubts about the way Pandey’s body was handed over to them. It was wrapped in a cloth which did not allow his family members to have a close look. “I was not aware of the marks on the chest. My husband has never had any surgery in his life. All his heath parameters were normal till he suffered a heart attack on March 6. So, the marks are indeed suspicious. The hospital had wrapped his body with a cloth so I didn’t have the chance to take a close look. I demand an explanation from the doctors,” said Sujata.
 
 While the Medica authorities have claimed that Pandey was in a critical state at the time of hospitalization, his family has claimed that the hospital kept them in the dark about his condition. It was also alleged that the surgery to remove a clot from his left leg was delayed which made gangrene set in. Eventually, the leg had to be amputated.
 
 
