MUMBAI: Are teams looking to copy the ' ' pinch-hitting formula which has worked so successfully for the Kolkata Knight Riders in   10?

 One would think so, after seeing  ' pacer   addressing the pre-match press conference with his pads still on, and the bat placed next to the mike. It seemed that the Kiwi left-arm seamer, who averages a dismal 1.33 after six innings spread across 12 games in IPL 10, which has seen him face just four balls so far, had almost been pulled out from an intense batting session at the Wankhede Stadium on Wednesday evening, ahead of his team's match against the  , to speak to the media.
 
 Mindful perhaps to not reveal the team strategy,   explained: "I want to keep improving my game. My batting has become better since the last couple of years and I want to prove myself to a position where as   (Australian great and former MI coach) did and   (Sri Lankan great & current MI coach) did earlier this year, they have the confidence to promote me so that I can try and score quick runs. "So, it's a personal thing for me. I just want to prove myself and become a good No. 8 batsman in T20 cricket, where I can come out and get 20 off 8 balls."
 
 Often the butt of jokes in the MI dressing room because of the difficulty people face while pronouncing his name, McClenaghan can feel pretty happy, though, with the way he's been carrying out his chief responsibility in the side ever since he was bought by MI for just Rs30 lakhs in the 2015 auction. In that inaugural season itself, the 30-year-old played a key role in MI's victorious campaign, taking 18 wickets@21.44. The left-arm pacer followed that up with being the highest wicket taker (17 scalps@25.64, economy rate of 8.17) in the 2016 IPL, and this season, he again looks set to finish as the side's top wicket-taker, with 17 scalps @23.94 and ER of 8.84.
 
 While it is the likes of   and   who steal the limelight with their thundering yorkers, McClenaghan is the unsung hero in the MI bowling line-up, taking crucial wickets in both Powerplay and the death overs. He has shown a tendency to leak runs, but on flat tracks in India and in a slam-bang format, all MI expect of him is to get wickets. And he does that for them pretty regularly.
 
 "My role in the side is to go and take wickets and be aggressive and try and get the key batsman out in the opposition. I bowl a lot of 'hard overs' when the guys are in or going to hit in the end. So, it's important to put things in perspective," he says while defending his economy rate, which is slightly on the higher side.
 
 McClenaghan feels that it's becoming tougher for bowlers to survive in the tough world of IPL. "If you look across the board in this IPL, there have been times people have gone for 40-plus and very good bowlers simply go for 50 or 60. That's unheard of. The frequency of that actually happening is far greater than the past season. It's just the way that the game has changed, the equipment ... the guys are playing with a lot less fear, youngsters come in and swing from ball one, it is getting harder, you have to keep backing yourself and adapting as we always do," he sums up.
 
