CHENNAI:   has identified five more stone quarry sites containing rainwater that could fulfill the drinking needs of the city.

 At present, the agency supplies 25-30 million litres per day (MLD) from 22 quarried sites near Chembarambakkam. The five sites identified at Erumaiyur, 5km from Tambaram, contain nearly 1,000 million litres of potable water, as compared to 3,000 million litres stored in Sikkarayapuram quarries. Preliminary survey reports indicate that the stored water in the five quarries is free from contaminants like EColi.
 
 The largest of the five quarries at Erumaiyur contains 500-600 million litres of water, said a metrowater official. “We are still exploring the quarries. Only an initial survey has been carried out so far,” the official said.
 
 The Erumaiyur quarries are not abandoned but buzzing with activity. Stone crushers churn out blue metal stone used for construction. “Rainwater stored in these quarries is teeming with fish. It is an indicator that the water is safe for drinking,” a worker at the quarry said.
 
 To supply water from the Erumaiyur quarries, the agency will have to lay a pipeline to the nearest treatment plant, which could take two months. “We also have the option of spot treatment of the rainwater in Erumaiyur. Modular treatment plants mounted on trucks can be driven to the site. Mobile tankers can ferry treated water to city homes,” an official said.
 
 At present, metrowater supplies around 450MLD in the city, against a demand of 1,200 million litres. The city reservoirs that usually account for the bulk of the supply have dried out owing to poor inflow from last year’s failed northeast monsoon. As a result, metrowater has been scouting the city for alternative sources of supply. Besides the Erumaiyur quarries, metrowater is digging an additional 15 borewells at Neyveli and Tamaraipakkam (Tiruvallur).
 
 “The alternative sources are being readied for use in case of dire shortage in supply. If Krishna river water from Andhra Pradesh does not reach Chennai in two months, we may have to depend on the alternative sources,” the official said. But if the city gets enough rainfall from the monsoon set to commence in October, there may not be a need for the alternative sources, he said.
 
 Water levels in the Krishna reservoirs like Srisailam, Somasila and Kandaleru have dipped. Chennai receives Krishna water from the Kandaleru reservoir which currently contains only 5,000 million cubic feet (TMC) water. The Andhra Pradesh government will start supplying Krishna water to the city only when the Kandaleru reservoir contains water in excess of 13  . “We are hoping catchment areas of Krishna river receive enough rainfall by August,” an official said.
 
 If the rain fails in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, metrowater will draw water from its alternative sources.
 
