LUCKNOW:   leaders are known for flaunting the party flag carrying bicycle on their SUVs. But as the judgement day on the internal squabble over the symbol arrived, the flags vanished overnight. Even campaign material without the party name and symbol started circulating across the state.

 The   headquarters here wore a deserted look soon after the EC reserved its verdict over the poll symbol on Friday, leaving the party rank and file in complete disarray. Two warring factions of SP, one led by Mulayam Singh Yadav, and another his son  , staked claimed to the party and its symbol.
 
 With party flags and publicity material already missing after the imposition of the model code conduct, only armed cops were present at the party headquarters at Vikramaditya Marg. Ministers and MLAs preferred to stayed at their residences.
 
 While Akhilesh said he would stick to his stand of remaining the president of the party and assured ministers and MLAs that they would get tickets, there were only a handful of people waiting outside his residence for his darshan. Throughout the day, he remained in constant touch with Ram Gopal Yadav and a battery of lawyers in New Delhi.
 
 “Our fate is in the hands of the EC. It is not a favourable situation,” a cabinet minister told TOI, pleading anonymity. “But a Samajwadi Party with Mulayam Singh Yadav out of it will be difficult for us to convince the voters,” the minister added.
 
 Most SP leaders, including those in the Akhilesh camp, say Mulayam is a towering figure and is identity of the party, even though Akhilesh has a good track record as CM.
 
 Not only as the party patriarch, but Mulayam also has credibility among various social groups, mainly Muslims. “It was Mulayam who had ordered firing to protect   in 1991 and when there was no Mulayam, no one protected Babri, and the mosque was demolished,” said Maulana Zahoor, who had come to meet Akhilesh from Moradabad.
 
 After Congress CM HN Bahuguna, it is only Mulayam who has a huge base among Muslims.” Every party has a history and it plays a key role in connecting to the people. In the SP, it is Mulayam Singh Yadav. It will be hard to ignore him for the Samajwadis,” said Ashutosh Mishra, a political scientist.
 
 At a time when the SP should have hit the campaign trail, the infighting has weakened its appeal to the voters. “Going to the voters with a divided house and seeking mandate for the second time is contradictory,” said a party leader.
 
 
