PATNA: The promenade planned along the Ganga in Patna has started taking shape. 

 The river front is one of the components of National  , a World Bank-aided $1 billlion initiative to help the National Ganga River Basin Authority develop   for rejuvenating the river. 
 
 The   is also   investments in the states like UP, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and West Bengal through which crosses the Hindus’ holy river, ranked seventh most polluted river of the world in 2007.
 
 The river front in Patna will connect the city’s 20 ghats covering a stretch of 6.6km. With part of the construction work reaching its last phase, at least 12 ghats have become a potential destination for those looking for a quiet getaway from the din and bustle of life in a capital city.
 
 June 2016 was the deadline for the walking plaza to be readied. Being implemented by the Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation, the project is now planned to be completed by June 2017. 
 
 “As of now, 12 ghats have been readied while the ongoing work at four other ghats is expected to be over by June this year. The remaining four ghats will be developed after the Loknayak Ganga Path, popularly known as Ganga driveway, is constructed,” said river front project director Sandeep Kumar.
 
 Kumar proudly informed TOI that Pathri Ghat, which was developed under this project, got the World Bank’s Asia-Pacific award for its attractiveness.
 
 The stretch to be covered under the river front project starts from Collectorate Ghat and ends at Nauzar Ghat. The four ghats at which the construction work is going on includes Raushan Ghat, Adalat Ghat, TN Banerjee Ghat and Krishna Ghat.
 
 Besides beautifying the ghats and interlinking them, the project also includes construction of a café-cum-reading centre at Patna College Ghat and an audio-visual theatre and community centre at Collectorate Ghat. Work on them, however, is yet to start.
 
 Mohd Aslam Khan has been a “proud witness” to the progress of work on the project. “The   were not interlinked when I was in the first year of my college. Today, you can walk from Gandhi Ghat to Law College Ghat without getting your footwear soiled,” said the third-year BSc (mathematics) student of Patna Science College situated along the river.
 
 Durgesh Nandani, third-year biotechnology student of B N College, prefers spending his leisurely time at Gandhi Ghat. “There are many food joints as well as cinema halls near my college, but the Ganga and its ghats beckon my friends and me,” he said, adding they enjoy coffee and snacks at the small cafeteria at Gandhi Ghat.
 
