GURGAON: “My objective is to turn this place into something like Lutyens’ Delhi,” says Archana Saxena, who is piloting a unique community initiative to reclaim the city’s famous   from the hands of encroachers.

 Saxena has joined hands with   of other societies along MG Road to create a forum that brings together the government, police, RWAs and other stakeholders to clean up Gurgaon’s most famous address, which is as much a symbol of the Haryana government’s civic failures as it is of Gurgaon’s success as a brand.
 
 The stretch of MG Road between   Metro station and   has eight malls, earning it the ‘Mall Mile’ moniker and a reputation as one of NCR’s most popular shopping and hangout destinations. Yet, walking or driving on the road is an unpleasant experience because, true to the way   has developed, private enterprise has not been adequately backed up by government initiative. 
 
 Besides the occasional anti-encroachment drive, the   has largely stood by as service lanes have fallen to parking for autos, cabs and rickshaws, pavements have been consumed by hawkers, or crumbled where they haven’t. Cramped for space, traffic jams on the weekends and during office hours are routine.
 
 “As of now, around 10,000 residents living in different condominiums have to bear with this situation,” Saxena, who lives in The Heritage City, told TOI. She and other residents have been reaching out to more people in their neighbourhood to participate in the exercise to clean up MG Road. The group then started approaching civic officials to motivate them to take up the cause, one issue at a time. They have also sent a complaint to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). 
 
 “We wrote to the PMO seeking its intervention in various problems, including traffic, drug sales, illegal parking and flesh trade on the stretch. The complaint was forwarded to the police commissioner a month and a half ago, seeking a report,” said Capt Amarvir Singh, who also lives in The Heritage City. 
 
 Rajeev Sinha, RWA president of Essel Towers, added, “MG Road has a number of malls and it should be a place where people should be happy and relaxed. Our idea is to convert it into a hassle-free place for residents, commuters and visitors.” 
 
 Over the past three months, residents have managed to get permission for installation of bollards on the road outside MGF Metropolitan Mall to help streamline traffic. The Heritage City also expects an approval for an emergency exit, which can be used if the service lanes are clogged, to come through soon.
 
 Saxena says she is now trying to reach out to residents of neighbouring Sushant Lok-1. “Citizens have to come together if we want things to change around us. Hence, I am reaching out to as many residents as I can,” she said.
 
 MCG had also recently announced it will revamp the Mall Mile and develop it into a “smart road”, free of encroachments and illegal parking. Various other plans and drives have been conducted in the past as well. However, the situation on the ground remains the same more or less.
 
 MCG commissioner V Umashankar said public support is essential for the corporation to succeed in cleaning up the road. “I am not personally aware of such an initiative but we have under GMDA ( , an agency that will be formed very soon) made a provision for anyone to come and sign an MoU for revamp and beautification of MG Road,” he said. Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said cops had been carrying out multiple drives to check traffic and illegal parking problems. “Similar drives are also being carried out for checking the sale of drugs as well,” he said.
 
