BENGALURU: When it was set up, the   chapter of   (MDS) functioned out of its founder’s car shed in Sanjaynagar. Twenty-five years on, the organization relentlessly working for women’s welfare is housed in a multi-storey building in  .

 “In 1992, Suman Krishnakant, one of the four founders of the Delhi-based MDS, asked me to start a branch in Bengaluru. We had only 10 volunteers then, a number which has more than doubled now,” said  , founder and president of Karnataka chapter. “I lived near a slum, and could hear women wailing at night as their husbands mercilessly beat them. Most were unemployed and unaware of their legal rights. We believed that educating them and making them financially independent was integral to improving their lives,” she said.
 
 The samiti began organizing tailoring classes for women, with the aim of making them employable. It moved on to conducting awareness campaigns and holding health camps in and around the city. The group then unofficially started counselling the women and their family members before it got permission to do so and hired a full-time counsellor.
 
 “We realized what most of these women needed was a safe shelter for a short stay, so we started looking for a place,” added Hegde. But renting a place proved to be no mean feat, as both landlords and neighbours were uncomfortable with the idea. The reason for this apprehension, Hegde said, may have been the thought of cops showing up at their homes (many residents were involved in dowry and domestic violence cases at the time).
 
 Nearly a decade later, with the help of donations from the department of women and child development, local MPs, MLAs and individuals, the organization was finally able to move into its own building and set up a permanent shelter for destitute and distressed women.
 
 The shelter in Vidyaranyapura is home to 30 women and children; most of the residents have been referred by NGOs, police and friends. “Most of them are survivors of domestic violence and rape or were married to men with multiple wives. They were in desperate need of a shelter for themselves and their children. But we have made it amply clear to them that this is not a permanent home. If they want to study, we help them enrol in schools and colleges. If not, we train them and help them get jobs. The aim is to make them financially independent,” said  , adding that someday, they want to open an old-age home as well.
 
