LUCKNOW: As the   government completed six months in power on Tuesday, chief minister Aditya Nath   mentioned an array of achievements ­ from establishing anti-Romeo squads to farmers' loan waiver and even the   ­ but refrained from mentioning ban on illegal slaughter houses, in a White Paper released by him.

 Patting his government for establishing rule of law in UP, Yogi said on Tuesday that UP was now “a changed state.“ “Everyone knows what the situation was before March this year. There was no atmosphere of investment. But all that has changed,“ the CM told mediapersons, while releasing a 56-page booklet to enlist his government's achievements. The booklet, “Badh chala Uttar Pradesh ek nayi disha ki ore“, lists strides made by most of the government departments.
 
 “My government has raised the morale of the police force, and the result is good law and order,“ Yogi said, adding, “more than 400 police encounters took place in which 17 dreaded criminals were killed and over 1,000 arrested.“ While 88 policemen were injured in encounters, a sub-inspector died in the course of duty, he said. Lauding DGP Sulkhan Singh, the chief minis ter said that UP police's functioning has become an example of excellent work culture and added that 1.5 lakh vacancies in the police department would be filled in next three years.
 
 The atmosphere has be come investment-friendly, the CM said. Yogi said the formation of anti-land mafia squad has resulted in land sharks vacating land worth Rs 35 crore in the state.
 
 He hailed his government for ensuring smooth process of farmers' loan waiver. Asked to comment on former UP CM  's post on his Twitter handle of a certificate of a farmer whose loan of one paisa has been waived, Yogi said, “Akhlieshji must not mock farmers else he will become a laughing stock. Rather than tweeting, he should look at the process of loan waiver of 11 lakh farmers which has been started,“ said Yogi. Praising the 'Jansunwai' (public hearing) portal, the CM said his office has disposed of 34 lakh out of 37 lakh complaints received.
 
 Talking about bringing transparency, the CM said that setting up of e-office was a step towards in this direction. “Once e-offices are set up till the district level by January 2018, no desk would be allowed to keep a file for more than three days,“ the CM said.
 
 The CM said that owing to successful implementation of GST, Uttar Pradesh was the top revenue earning state in August.
 
