CHANDIGARH: The   on Tuesday reserved its verdict on the issue of  , secretary of Haryana state assembly and   for Rajya Sabha (RS) polls, as party in the petition filed by senior advocate R K Anand.

 Justice P B Bajanthri reserved the order after hearing the arguments of both the parties. The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of an election petition filed by Anand challenging the election of media mogul Subhash Chandra as the Rajya Sabha member in the elections held in June last year.
 
 While Anand, who had lost the election to Chandra, has been seeking directions to implead assembly secretary Nandal as party, the latter had been opposing to it.
 
 According to Anand entire election process for RS was a clandestine exercise which was meticulously planned and executed so that Chandra and Birender Singh are made to win. Strongly advocating to implead Nandal as respondent in the case, he had submitted that the Election Commission had also conducted an inquiry into the conduct of Nandal and FIR has already been registered on the issue.
 
 Anand’s counsel has also submitted that entire election process was mockery of just, fair and transparent election process in democracy.
 
 Chandra, on the other hand, had submitted that there were no irregularities in his election to RS and all the MLAs casts their votes in their own conscious political wisdom. He also contended that Nandal could not be impleaded as respondent in the election petition filed by Anand.
 
 Election for two seats of RS from Haryana was held on June 11, 2016. Anand who was backed by INLD and the Congress has been alleging that he had learnt through reliable sources that Chandra had met the returning officer at the Vidhan Sabha in the presence of several people a day before the election.
 
 He alleged that Chandra was shown the pen – a violet-colored sketch pen – that was to be used for marking votes on ballot papers the following day. Anand stated that the official pen was removed from the polling area in a clandestine and dishonest manner in an effort to sabotage the election.
 
 
