PATNA: A day after private weather forecaster   predicted below normal rainfall across the country this year, the Indian   (IMD)’s Patna office said on Tuesday Bihar was also likely to receive less than normal rainfall this monsoon.

 “One of the reasons for our assessment is less values of   (MJO) being recorded in the region,” said a weatherman.
 
 MJO is an ocean-atmosphere interaction that occurs in the equatorial region and influences southwest monsoon rainfall like El Nino. The MJO is a moving system of wind, cloud and pressure, which brings showers as it circles around the equator. An active MJO normally brings more than average rainfall at a place. 
 
 Central University of South Bihar’s Centre for   head   said El Nino conditions were likely to resurface in central equatorial Pacific region, which might lead to irregular rainfall. Based on the multi-model experiment conducted by Korean weather agency APCC, the associate professor said our country’s eastern parts, including the Gangetic Plain of Bihar and UP, might receive above normal rainfall in June while below normal in July and August.
 
 Monsoon normally arrives in Bihar on June 10. Normal rainfall in the state over the four monsoon months — June, July, August and September — is 1024mm. However, the state has been receiving deficient rainfall over the past five years.
 
 There was 27% deficient rainfall in Bihar in 2015 with 24 of its 38 districts receiving either deficient or scanty rainfall. In 2014, the state received 17% deficient rainfall. The deficiency in 2013 stood at 30%, making it the lowest rainfall over the past ten years.
 
 Thundersquall likely today, tomorrow: The Indian Meteorological Department’s Patna office has warned of thundersquall with hail in north and southeast Bihar on Wednesday and Thursday even as it recorded 19mm rainfall in Purnia on Tuesday. Its forecast said Patna would most likely witness windy conditions with light showers over the next 48 hours. In response to a query, a senior weatherman attributed the turbulent weather conditions on Tuesday and during the next two days to Nor’Wester; that is, sudden spell of showers in summer. 
 
