A Puneite to the core, he has shot into stardom with a Man of the Series performance against England in the recent ODI series. He started with a match-winning 120 at his home ground and then scored a 90 in the spirited chase at Eden Gardens. TOI traces his long journey to success:

  is a late bloomer. His first official   match came in the 2004-05 season when he was 18, and he made his international debut at the age of 29. Still, confidence is not a byproduct of experience for him.
 
 In the quarterfinal of the U-19 Cooch Behar Trophy (hi first BCCI match) against Kerala at Nehru stadium, Maharashtra were 68-4 replying to the visitors' 318. Kedar then smashed 195 and took Maharashtra to the semis.
 
 In a U-22 match against Mumbai in the 2006-07 season, chasing 512, Maharashtra were 69-4. Kedar hit a ton though Mumbai took the first innings lead.
 
 In the Ranji match at Lahli against Andhra Pradesh in the 2014-15 season, he scored 81 in the second innings after his team was bowled out for 91 in the first. No player from either side could score even a fifty in that match.
 
 Earlier this month, India were 63-4 chasing England's 351 in the first ODI in Pune. Kedar scored a match-winning 120.
 
 "I'm used to such situations," he said. "Because a majority of people are watching me for the first time, they don't know."
 
 Even the build-up to his Cooch Behar Trophy debut was interesting. The local MCA junior invitation league semi-finals and final of that year were scheduled at a later date. But they were advanced to enable selectors see new players. Kedar was impressive in both semis as well as the final and made his debut in BCCI matches.
 
 During that knock of 195,   -on talent scout for BCCI then -met Kedar outside a restroom just after he had a wash. Vengsarkar asked the young lad where the match was heading. Kedar confidently replied: "If I continue to bat, we shall win."
 
 Vengsarkar told him that he would watch the match next day.
 
 "I won the game for the team. Vengsarkar sir was happy and told me encouraging words. He said he didn't want to see me as a one-match wonder."
 
 
 
 
 Hailing from the Kothurd gaothan area, Kedar played a lot of tennis ball cricket. He played for New Union Club in PDCA league. As the cricket bug bit him big time, he enrolled his name at Deccan Gymkhana.
 
 Hemant Athalye was his first coach there. Though Kedar plays for PYC now, it's clear that there is no love lost between him and Deccan officials.
 
 After Kedar failed to take India over the line in the Kolkata ODI on January 22, Athalye immediately posted on Facebook: "Brilliant Batting Kedar Jadhav. What a Knock!!! Tough Luck. Almost pulled match for India..."
 
 Kedar played a lot of cricket in Pune. His best friend Nandan Thakur, who managed the New Union Club, said Kedar was a star performer when they won PDCA league and Maharshi Trophy in successive years.
 
 Recalling his tennis ball days, Kedar said: "The bounce made me a natural back foot player. The life of a tennis ball cricketer was crazy and busy . We used to play many matches in a day, sometimes just having misal for lunch."
 
 
 
 
 Kedar is the youngest child of his parents -Mahadeo and Mandakini -after three daughters. His father had worked for the electricity corporation. His eldest sister is a professor, second a doctor and the third has done an MBA.
 
 "My father played a huge role in my career," Kedar said emotionally. "He backed me without putting unnecessary pressure on me. And he is such a positive person. Suppose he is watching a match on TV in which India is struggling and someone says we shall lose, he may ask that person to leave the hall. His positivity played a great role in my career."
 
 Kedar said he could sense positive vibes.
 
 "When we were in Zimbabwe in 2015, I saw a big board at the Harare Sports Club, saying the club was formed in March 1985. Since I was born in the same month, I felt it was a signal. I felt this ground would give me something."
 
 Kedar scored his first ODI hundred in his fourth game. He says more than 90% of the time, his gut-feeling comes true. Kedar said he started to take cricket seriously because of his wife, Snehal. "When we were dating, she expressed her wish that I should have my own identity and can't live under my parents' wings forever. That taught me to take responsibility."
 
 He said, "I have this self-belief that if I put in 100% with right intention... if I prepare well and am willing to pay the price to meet success, I shall get big breaks."
 
 The breaks came in the form of Surendra Bhave as Ranji coach in 2013-14 and a contract with   Bangalore in the IPL 2016 after topsy-turvy rides with   (twice) and Kochi Tuskers Kerala, including a barren year in 2012.
 
 From the beginning, Kedar used to get bored after batting for an hour or so at the nets. So, he kept trying his hand with wicket-keeping and spin bowling during practice. It helped him develop a different set of skills and make a mark in IPL and ODIs against New Zealand last year.
 
 Bhave worked on Kedar's defensive screen. Babu Shankar, the strength and conditioning coach of RCB, improved his fitness.
 
 Kedar realised during his RCB stint why he wasn't in the Indian team. "My fielding and fitness needed a lot of work if I wanted to play for India regularly."
 
 When the window of opportunity came calling in a full-strength Indian team (earlier he had played in less important ODIs when some players were rested), he was feeling good about his cricket.
 
 The defining knock of 120 followed, making him Pune's most elevated cricketer in the last 50 years.
 
 The match-winning international hundred won him the Man of the Match award.
 
 His father Mahadeo, who battled cancer a few years ago, attends all his matches in Pune. He was in the stands when Kedar's knock helped India chase 351 successfully.
 
 
 
 
 Though Maharashtra failed to make it to the knockouts of the T20 meet in the 2006-07 season, a two-run win over Mumbai at the Brabourne stadium was a morale booster for Maharashtra and Kedar.
 
 He was given a Ranji cap in 200708, but was dropped in the season's last game against Karnataka at Ratnagiri for his uninspiring scores coupled with Chandrakant Pandit's in-your-face style of coaching.
 
 A couple of months later, he was made the captain of the Maharashtra XI against a touring England team in a one-dayer, which Maharashtra won.
 
 Reason? He played two outstanding hundreds in practice games of Maharashtra probables.
 
 "Sometimes, you take your place for granted," said Kedar. "At times, you need wake-up calls."
 
 Though Kedar is a natural strategist on the cricket field, his brush with captaincy hasn't been too smooth.
 
 The success of IPL in 2008 prompted Maharashtra Cricket Association to start Maharashtra Premier League in 2009. Kedar was made the captain of Sindhudurg Sailors, but he relinquished the captaincy in between.
 
 "I was quite hurt when I brought myself on and went for runs. We lost that match and I said if someone else was the captain, maybe he won't have asked me to bowl. So, I said no to captaincy and decided to concentrate on my batting. Even the Ranji captaincy was offered to me in 2008-09, but I was not ready ."
 
 
 
 
 When England's Dermot Reeve took over as the coach of Maharashtra Ranji team for the 2012-13 season, Kedar was going through a make-or-break phase in his career.
 
 He was seen as a special player in the Maharashtra standards. But the big performances to deserve special treatment were missing from his CV .
 
 Maharashtra's first match of the Ranji season was against Uttar Pradesh at the Gahunje stadium. They won the toss; batted; and were nearing 150-1. Maharashtra leg-spinner Digambar Waghmare, who was chatting with the media, said: "Kedar won't get out on this wicket."
 
 Reeve promoted Kedar to No. 4 and he scored 327 off 312 balls with 54 fours and two sixes.
 
 The importance of the knock can be gauged by the fact that his previous Ranji hundred for Maharashtra came two-and-a-half years ago.
 
 "It gave me a lot of confidence," said Kedar. "I thank Pandurang Salgaoncar, who had prepared a good batting wicket for that game; and also for the ODI against England. That triple hundred gave me a belief that I can play for the country."
 
 The next season, Bhave took over from Reeve and Kedar came up with 1,223 Ranji runs (6x100s), including a match-winning unbeaten 120, chasing 252 against hosts Mumbai in the quarterfinals.
 
 "Bhave sir worked on my forward defence. And it worked. The satisfying part about the knock was that I could play against my nature. Mumbai bowlers were trying to lure me into a false stroke. But I could leave some dicey balls to the keeper and block a few with forward defence. I thought I'm overdoing defence and sought a message from Bhave sir. But he said I'm doing well."
 
 After settling in, Kedar toyed with Mumbai spinners and dispatched them into the stands.
 
 
 
 
  is Kedar's favourite actor. "If Kedar is in town, we go for Salman's movie first day , first show," said Nandan Thakur, Kedar's buddy .
 
 And they don't stop at that. "We have seen some Salman movies thrice."
 
 Kedar's favourite football team is  . After improving his aerobic fitness, he can now play football for a pretty long time.
 
 More than just a good sportsperson, Kedar wants to be a good human being.
 
 "I like to see happiness on people's faces," he said. "When I was an upcoming player, I used to get bat, gloves and shoes from senior players. I know how valuable these small gestures are. So, I try to do the same with kids playing cricket and need some boost."
 
 
 
 
 Kedar is the second player born and brought up in Pune to have played ODI cricket for India. Abhijit Kale played an ODI in Bangladesh in 2003. But he was originally from Mumbai.
 
 Kedar is the first ODI player hailing from the west side of the city. If all goes well, he will become the first Puneite to represent India in an ICC event this year (Champions Trophy in June in England).
 
 "I live in the present," he said.
 
 Hrishikesh Kanitkar is the other cricketer from the city to have played ODIs for India (34 from 1997 to 2000).He gave Pune a fleeting moment of pride hitting the last-over four against Pakistan in the Independence Cup final at Dhaka in 1997.
 
