PUNE: A delay of three hours, coupled with an employee’s alleged rude behaviour, left more than 150 passengers of a Jet Airways flight frustrated and stranded at the Lohegaon airport on Sunday.

 The passengers claimed the airlines didn’t inform them about the   despite prior knowledge and added that many of them had to run throughout the airport in order to get information.
 
 “Bengaluru is hosting the Aero India 2017, and due to this, the airport was closed for a few hours. Our flight (9W786) was to come from Bengaluru to Pune and then head for Delhi. The scheduled departure of the flight was 3.30pm. I checked into the airport by 2.15pm and asked an official if the flight was on time. He told me the flight had not yet arrived from Bengaluru and that he didn’t have much information. Around 2.35pm, I received a text message that the flight was delayed and was scheduled for departure at 6.40pm. However, no announcements were made at the airport. The passengers got upset and went down to Gate 3, which had a female airline staff. When asked, she just said the delay was due to technical reasons and stomped off rudely when passengers inquired more. Another official of the airlines appeared and said the delay was because of the Aero India show, which had resulted in closure of the Bengaluru airport. I am sure they had this information earlier but chose not to inform passengers The behaviour of the woman employee angered many of us,” said Bhairavi, a resident of Delhi.
 
 On Jet Airways’ twitter page, it was clearly mentioned that the Bengaluru airspace would remain closed from February 12 to February 18 between 10am and 12 noon, and then from 2pm to 5pm. On February 14, the airspace would remain closed from 9am till 12 noon.
 
 Another flier,  , also posted his frustration on twitter. He said, “Why didn’t the airline inform us earlier about this? Many passengers were moving from one counter to other and from one gate to the next seeking information from officials. But no one was ready to provide help. Most of the time, no official of the airlines could be seen even. They provided us refreshments around 3.30pm but the problem lies with hiding information.”
 
 The flight finally reached Pune airport at 6.30pm and left for Delhi by 6.40pm.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, officials of the airline didn’t respond to mails TOI sent. 
 
