KOCHI: In the wake growing number of   and dengue cases,   is planning to administer a pledge to school children that they would cover their face while coughing and sneezing and keep their premises clean. According to experts with the department, the only way to check the disease which has become endemic is a thorough change in the behaviour of the public.

 The health department has already given instructions to directorate of public instructions to organize awareness programmes in schools across the state. “The plan is to start the campaign on day one of the new academic year. We are exploring the possibilities of conducting public announcements in each village prior to reopening of schools. Through these programmes we plan to create awareness among the children regarding the communicable diseases,“ said Dr  , additional director of health services (public health).The pledge would be taken by the students in the first week of school reopening.
 
 As the disease is spread from human to human, spread of H1N1 can be checked only through such  .“Though Keralites are generally considered hygienic, only a few people from the state would cover their face while sneezing or coughing. It is not the health department, but the public themselves who are to check the spread of H1N1. So, the department would be starting the campaign for the behav ioural change in the community by cre ating awareness among the students who are supposed to carry the message to the entire family and society,“ an official with the health department said. They would force the parents and neighbours to observe dry day and keep their premises clean, he said.
 
 Moreover, health department foresees the chances of the number of cases going up with the onset of monsoon as school children may turn out to be the carriers of the disease.Low immunity rate, spending long hours inside the classroom along with kids who may have the disease make them vulnerable. “As per random tests conducted across the state, one in four cases of influenza is H1N1. Fortunately, 80 per cent of the cases fall in category A which requires little medication. So, there need not be any panic,“ said  , nodal officer, H1NI. “But, we should be alert.Simple measures on our part like covering face while sneezing and coughing, taking proper rest if the disease is contracted, improving general health so as to increase immunity and skipping offices and schools until the illness is cured can protect us,“ he said.
 
