In a world of salon straight hair and pancake makeup, she stands out with her curly locks, pimples which she makes no attempt to hide, and the simple yet elegant outfits she chooses for her public appearances. 

  sure created history with her debut film Premam, and no actress from another language has probably been welcomed by Malayalis with such enthusiasm as her. Unlike many who take on a slew of projects soon after their first hit, Sai chose to pick and choose her films. The last year saw her venturing into Telugu and most recently, Tamil as well.
 
 Above all, a sheer zest of life exudes from her, and it's no wonder really, then, that with the polls online on www.itimes.com/polls, and our vote, Sai Pallavi is Kochi Times Most Desirable Woman of 2016. We talk to her about what being desirable means to her, her take on fashion, fitness and more.
 
 
 
 I don't know if I'm the most desirable and if I deserve it; I did just two movies. But people are the sweetest in choosing me and I give them the sweetest people award!
 
 
 
 I think it's about how you carry yourself, how much of self-respect you have, how much confidence you have and how much you believe that you can actually do it. That's what makes anybody desirable. Regardless of what you are, how much you love yourself, that's the most desirable thing in any lady.
 With Premam, you brought in a new definition of attractive. Would you consider it a breaking of stereotypes of sorts?
  Again, I don't know if I can take credits for any of this, I owe it all to Alphonse (Puthren). I didn't even know if I could act, never thought I was a great dancer either. I still don't believe I can act; it's just that people seem to like me and I am happy about it. It wasn't a planned decision to break stereotypes; if anyone considers themselves more confident because of the film, I would think myself blessed and lucky to be an instrument in God's hands.
 
 
 
 I always felt special, or rather that's what my mom made me feel. Even if I lost a competition she would tell me that I have to learn something from that, maybe I didn't work hard enough or I was too confident. But 'm talented, she would say. Something greater is going to come. And I think thoughts play a major role, positive thoughts.
 
 Which is the most interesting complement that you have ever got from a fan?
  Somewhere it was written that October 18th is my birthday and some people flew to Georgia to wish me! They came to my college, spoke to my professor, found out where I lived, and they were at my doorstep! I was shocked! 
 And once there was this elderly woman who called me from Dubai. 'It's not in my character to call or hunt down an actress, but I never knew that at this age I would fall in love with the way a girl portrayed a character. It made me fall in love with you', she said. Such things make you feel it was all worth it.
 If I had worked hard and made an extra effort to play that character in Premam, I would have said I deserved it but in my case, it's purely God's grace.
 
 
 
 Success and failure is temporary. So don't let them get to you. Keep working hard, but enjoy your work. I've seen dancers who dance as if it's so easy but when you try out those steps you realise how difficult they actually are. And that's because they enjoy what they're doing. In Premam I was enjoying every moment of the shoot and that came on screen I think, the love you have for the character.
 
 
 
 I'm a vegetarian. So half the fatty items are cut there. I'm not going to comment on whether I support vegetarianism or non-vegetarianism, it's just that I feel I'm fit because I'm a vegetarian. I do yoga, though not regularly. Whenever I find myself gaining some weight I do yoga and it helps me. I meditate every day and I think that plays a very important role. When I meditate my mind is calm, I feel my body feels better and I don't fall sick. Touchwood I haven't fallen sick in two or three years, not even a fever. I owe this all to meditation. It brings me a lot of peace after a stressful day. I haven't danced in a long time, as I'm too tired for it after shoots. People should do what they like, though, I know gym works for a lot of people.
 
 
 
 Fashion is comfort for me; being comfortable in what you are wearing. Because if you wear a designer gown and you aren't comfortable in it, it will show. But if you are comfortable, you own that dress, I feel.
 
 
 
 I can give examples of some ideal relationships that I have come across. Dad and mom, of course and after that Jyothika and Suriya. And yes, Dulquer and Amaal, they are the best couple I have ever seen. I was so much in awe of Dulquer during Kali shoot. How can someone love his wife so much? And that is where I thought, OK, maybe I should raise my bar a little higher. I told him that too, that they make such a beautiful pair.
  I think the ideal relationship is where the couple wholeheartedly love each other and puts the other's interests first, where you respect each other's feelings. It should be mutual of course.
 
 
 
 I wouldn't pick one. Recently, I was at an award function in Kerala and simply everyone is talented, you can't judge someone on the basis of the way he looks or talks or dresses. Everybody is sweet in the Malayalam industry and they know how to treat their women. In that way I have a lot of respect for them. They are so protective of me though I'm Tamil!
 
 
 
 Yes, I have agreed to do the film. However generally I make an announcement about a film only after I'm done with it. We have to start shooting. I will talk more about it after it's over.
 
 
