Trichy:   is to launch into space a full-fledged Femto satellite, or a satellite weighing less than a kilogram, developed by students from India. The satellite weighing 64 grams is made of reinforced carbon fibre and will be launched on an SR 4 rocket on June 21 from Wallops Space Flight Felicity at Virginia. 

 “It is a technology demonstration satellite which will take a sub-orbital spaceflight,” said Mohamed Rifath Shaarook, a Class 12 student who led the team. “Our satellites will go into space on a rocket, do the research and land back on a surface /ocean in a capsule. We will research on it and create a better space system and technologies which can be used in orbital and interplanetary missions,” he said. 
 
 Hailing from Pallapatti village in Karur district, Shaarook, 18, is awaiting his class 12 board exam results. He is already a lead scientist in Chennai-based Space Kidz India (SKI), an organization encouraging space research in students. “The innovation was in making the satellite fully 3D printed other than electronics, which has not been done before, ,” said Founder CEO of Space Kidz India Srimathy Kesan. “The judges and director of Colorado Space Grans Consortium were impressed by the work of students as they could accommodate 10 censors in 3.8 cubic cm,” she said. 
 
 It was the space challenge contest known as “Cubes in Space” by NASA & I doodle Learning Inc that gave wings to the aspirations of these young minds. The contest was aimed at encouraging students to develop new technology for future space exploration. The best experiments were to get a sub-orbital space flight to real space on a NASA rocket. 
 
 “No student project from India could make it to the challenge,” claimed Shaarook. The boy developed an interest in space science and satellites while studying in class 8 and wanted to make a satellite of his own some day. However, he says it wouldn’t have been possible without a committed team equally passionate about space research. In future, 3D-printed technologies, Nano and Femto space technologies will help the human race to be habituated on other celestial bodies, said Srimathy Kesan.
 
 
