You already know that there’s an emoji for every emotion. But did you ever realise that there can be an emoji for every person as well? Think about it. Doesn’t the neighbourhood lover boy who steals glances at you resemble *heart eyes*? Or the adorable class nerd who helps you with Math remind you of *nerd with glasses*? It’s not for nothing that emoji analysis is a thing — South Park fans will agree! On Valentine’s Day, that got us wondering: What if our favourite celeb couples were emojis? They’d probably look something like this...

  
 
  This power couple is a heady mix of brain and brawn. While Kiran works magic behind the camera and has given the Indian audiences an out-of-the-box film like Dhobi Ghat, Aamir has almost become synonymous with the word ‘perfectionist’. This duo is a combination of the nerd prowess and the cool and creative swag. Neat, nah?
 
  
 
 
  The class-clown meets the gorgeous diva. After a spat of seemingly heart-breaking relationships, Deepika seems to be smiling a lot more these days. And we are sure Ranveer and his antics has a lot to do with it. A happy girl makes for a beautiful couple, we say.
 
  
 
  One is an angry young man, the other a silent, calm and sometimes, even poker-faced presence (well, with all the unnecessary backlash she receives, we totally understand). While Virat’s rage on and off field is well-known, the cricketer only amped up his desirability quotient with an angry rant against the critics of his lady love, with his “Shame” tweet that went on to be the most shared post of last year. Here, we see the fire and ice come together to make a steamy, steamy couple.
 
  
 
  Abhishek is the heir to B’wood’s biggest superstar and Aishwarya is considered one of the most beautiful women in the world. And together, these two make for model couple for the really ambitious folks. But what seems to work well for this couple is their rather different personas. While Ash is a diva, all prim and proper, Abhishek is the free-spirited one of the two — a prankster, he carries the Bachchan khandaan tag with a swag... er, smirk.
 
  
 
  This couple is the perfect example of why humour is the most important ingredient in life, especially in love. They don’t even mind making fun of parenthood. They call themselves ‘children’ who are just ‘breeders’. While Ryan sometimes lets those hearts in his eyes come out on display when he thanks Blake at public events, when it comes to Blake, it isn’t very hard to notice all those kisses and affection flying all over the place.
 
  
 
  Neil Patrick Harris and his actor-chef husband David Burtka not only juggle demanding careers but are also role models for the LGBT youth. But their romance has something for everyone — from their admittedly ‘versatile’ sex life to their clarity on commitment and what it means, they are the poster boys for the same-sex lovers’ emojis!
 
  
 
 She is a diva and he is the cool dude (well, most times), with a love for dropping surprises on the mic. Their relationship has been an interesting roller coaster ride for those who follow them. Apparently, one of turning points has been when Kim allowed Kanye to overhaul her wardrobe. Meanwhile, the rumours suggest that the couple hit a rough spot with Kanye’s tour, which he ended unceremoniously (yet again on the mic!) during the much-written about Paris mugging that Kim went through. Need we say more about the emojis they get?
 
 
