Lucknow: All India Muslim Personal Law Board will take a final call on negotiated settlement of the   issue during its two-day meeting of the working committee to be held in Lucknow from April 15. In case of consensus over such a move, the board will also discuss the modalities of such a settlement and how to approach the issue. This is the first time that the board has listed the issue of negotiated settlement on its agenda for the working committee meeting. 

 The Ayodhya dispute will be high on the agenda of the meeting against the backdrop of the Supreme Court's suggestion for an out- of-court settlement, said   general secretary Maulana Wali Rehmani. “The matter of Babri mosque is very crucial and discussion will be held whether there can any way for talks for its settlement and what will be the modalities of such an option," he told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The board decided to deliberate on the option of a negotiated settlement after quite a few members expressed their personal views at various platforms showing an inclination towards a negotiated settlement of the vexed issue in order to end the stalemate between the Hindus and the Muslim on the Ramjanambhumi dispute in Ayodhya, said working committee member Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali. Board members told TOI that once a consensus is reached, the AIMPLB will discuss the modalities of such a settlement and reach out to different stakeholders as well.
 
 However, there were signs of any flexibility from the board members on the triple talaq which is the second most important issue on the 15-point agenda of the working committee meeting to be held at Nadwat-ul Ulema, the renowned seminary in the city. The board will deliberate on the initiatives taken to tackle the menace of triple talaq and discuss in detail the latest submissions by AIMPLB before the Supreme Court on the issue.
 
 Apart from launching an awareness campaign to highlight that talaq in any form should be the last resolve, the board will launch a fresh campaign to inform the Muslim community that ideally divorce should be reached by pronouncing “talaq” once after a gap of one month and triple talaq in one sitting should only be opted in rarest of the rare cases where immediate separation was necessary.
 
 “A very minuscule minority of the community practises triple talaq in one sitting and the board has already launched an awareness campaign to educate people on how it is not a preferred practice. Within the next year or more the awareness program will help to check the menace to a great extent,” said renowned Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq who is the senior vice-president of the board. 
 
 The board had recently launched a signature campaign seeking opinion of Muslim women on the issue of triple talaq and at the working committee meeting, the AIMPLB’s women wing will give a presentation on the response of the signature campaign. “An attempt is under way to give a false impression that the Muslim community has a high rate of divorce which is untrue,” said Asma Zohra, the chief organizer of the board’s women wing.
 
 
