NOIDA: Taking into cognizance the delay in implementing prepaid meter connections for juggi, jhopadi and patri shopkeepers, the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) initiated action on Tuesday under  , 2003 against distribution companies and   (service provider of such prepaid meters) whereby chairman Desh Deepak Verma directed that a notice be issued to Managing Director, HCL as to why a penalty of Rs 1 lakh should not be imposed upon him on failing to comply with the order. Verma also set May 31 as deadline for such connections including integration and testing process of prepaid meters.

 “During the hearing on May 2, the Commission under the chairmanship of Verma and member S K Agarwal, directed that the notice be issued to Managing Director, HCL as to why a penalty of Rs 1 lakh should not be imposed upon him and further directed that the said integration must be completed before May 31,” said Sanjay Srivastava, secretary UPERC.
 
 Verma further instructed that all prepaid connection should be given online so as to avoid migration from offline to online in new connections. ‘He instructed UPPCL to ensure that all prepaid connection should be migrated from offline to online by May 31 with a live demo presentation for two consumers in front of the Commission, who will be required to make online recharge with respect to prepaid meter on May 31, 2017,” said Srivastava.
 
 Earlier, on Tuesday when the Commission under Verma inquired about the status of compliance on implementing prepaid meters (a month after its previous directive of April 3, 2017) in juggi, jhopadi and patri shopkeepers, it did not get convincing replies from discoms as well as HCL and showed its displeasure on the delay leading to show cause notice of Rs I lakh penalty on HCL and action under Section 142 of Electricity Act 2003 on discoms.
 
 With the aim of ‘power for all,’ the Commission had made the provision in its order dated July 22, 2014 (which was reiterated on April 3, 2017) to cover people (with prepaid meters) living in jhuggi / jhopadi / patri shopkeepers having no access to electricity. The move is expected to bring nearly 30 lakh consumers on record and help combat power theft said Srivastava.
 
 Given the new directive, Noida, which has about 1000 prepaid meter connections is scaling up its reach. “We are implementing the said order with immediate effect. It’s a welcome move as it helps bring all unauthorised connections on the radar, which we can now monitor even as the move will help bring revenue to the department and also help curb power thefts to a large extent,” said  , superintending engineer  .
 
