JAIPUR: Fed up with being on the run from police, that too without money, notorious criminal  's aide, 43-year-old Sreevallabh, who was arrested recently, wanted to commit suicide and attempted the same on a railway track in Surat.

 But as luck would have it, the train was late on that day.He was picked up by the   (GRP) from the railway track and sent packing. This was revealed by the sleuths of SOG who have been interrogating him to find the whereabouts of Anandpal.
 
 Sreevallabh, who was a trader in the mid-1980s in Nagaland, entered the crime scene in the late 90s.
 
 “During the insurgency in Nagaland, when people from outside the state were stopped from doing any busi ness or trade, his shop was set on fire. Till this time, he was leading a luxury life. He was forced to leave the state by Bodos. After coming to his native town in Rajasthan, he started doing petty thefts and even extortion and began a life in crime,“ said Dinesh M N, inspector general of police, SOG, on Thursday.
 
 Later, he met  , who was killed by gangster Anandpal Singh in which Sreevallabh is also a co-accused.
 
 “After Godara's murder, he became acquainted with Anandpal. On September 3, 2015, he managed to escape with Anandpal and  ,“ Dinesh added.
 
 Asked how he managed to survive while he was on the run, Karan Sharma, additional superintendent of police, said, “He had a hand-to-mouth existence and suffered weight loss after not receiving proper food during his stay in Surat in Gujarat. One day, he lied down on the railway track to commit suicide as he had calculated that a train passes through the track every 10 minutes. But that day the train was late and did not arrive till 45 minutes. He was thrashed and removed from the tracks by a GRP policeman in Gujarat.“
 
 “During interrogation, he confessed that during his stay in the jail, Anandpal, who was planning to escape, had asked him to go for regular jogging in the jail. Since he was lazy, he would soak his vest in water to show Anandpal that he had been sweating after physical activity!“ said Sharma.
 
