PUNE: Full majority in the Pune Municipal Corporation is the mantra of development for the parties, as the city had two hung verdicts in the 2007 and 2012 polls.

 No party got majority on those two occasions. The fractured mandate hampered the implementation of projects in the city.
 
 NCP leader   mentioned in almost all his election rallies that his party could deliver in Pimpri Chinchwad because of the thumping majority. “In Pune, we are in power for the past 10 years. But we had to depend on some party or the other for approval to any project. This delayed and hampered development projects in the city,” he said.
 
 He claimed his party could not take quick decisions because of lack of full majority. “Every time we had to wait for consensus or had to seek help from other parties. This time, the city must give us full majority and then only we shall be able to execute our vision for the city,” he said.
 
 Chief minister   appealed to citizens that they must give full power to the BJP. “The BJP wants to implement the development agenda and change the face of the city. We want to make Pune a development centre and for that we need full support,” he said in a recent meeting.
 
 The BJP’s posters and banners across the city iterate the appeal.
 
 Union minister   said in a public meeting on Saturday, “It is high time that the BJP gets full majority to keep away corrupt parties from power.”
 
  has been making an emotional appeal that it was fighting election on its own and citizens must repose faith in the words of Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. The city unit chief of the party, Vinayak Nimhan, said, “We are confident that citizens will not give a fractured verdict this time. People have seen and experienced the governance of the NCP and Congress and they are suffering because of the BJP’s rule at the Centre and the state. Pune people will give thumping majority to Sena.”
 
 The Congress and MNS, struggling for survival, have not made full majority an election agenda. A senior Congress leader said the party was aware that it would have to play a secondary role in the corporation because it would not be able to win majority on its own.
 
 One of the NCP leaders did not rule out a new Pune pattern after the  , wherein the NCP, BJP and Sena could join hands to keep the Congress out of power. The first “Pune pattern” was created in 2007, when the NCP had tied up with the BJP-Shiv Sena to form a ruling alliance in the civic body to keep the Congress away from the power. After two-and-a-half years, the alliance fell apart before the assembly elections in 2009.
 
 
