AURANGABAD:   who assaulted an   also has trouble brewing back home in  , where he appears to be losing political ground.

 His son, Kiran (27), recently faced a defeat in Zilla Parishad elections at Kunhali in Umarga taluka, considered a safe seat for Sena.
 
 After serving two terms as MLA, Gaikwad won the Lok Sabha election, wresting the Osmanabad seat from NCP strongman Padmasinh Patil by a margin of over 2 lakh votes. However, Kiran's defeat and his subsequent failure in securing a majority in the ZP , may have upset Gaikwad.
 
 Gaikwad had been pitching for a   at the ZP with the support of the Congress and the BJP . The MP , however, lost face when BJP members abstained from voting at the last minute and two Shiv Sena members “disappeared“ during the election process.
 
 Osmanabad superintendent of police Pankaj Deshmukh said that Gaikwad and his supporters had insisting on a search for the two Sena members without lodging an FIR. “His sup porters simply gave us a memorandum, stating that the two members disappeared ahead of the crucial polls. We took cognizance and inquired with family members of both the missing individuals. The families denied that the two were missing, following which, we did not follow up the matter further,“ he said.
 
 After losing the polls for president and deputy president post of the ZP , Ga ikwad allegedly scolded a deputy supe rintendent of police in public. “The MP used harsh words against the cop and accused him of failing to trace two members. Gaikwad had said his oral or ders were enough to look out for the missing members,“ Deshmukh said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Umarga unit of Sena staged demonstrations on Saturday demanding that offences registered against Gaikwad be withdrawn. Some Omerga villagers, however, are upset with their MP . “He had access to higher authorities, he should have complained to them instead of assaulting an official, who didn't have any role in the inconvenience he faced,“ a villager said. The MP could not be reached. 
 
