 I am a 35-year-old married woman with two daughters. I had a happy married life until my husband met with an accident, which left him physically challenged. Now, the problem is that he can't satisfy me sexually, even if he's willing and I am craving for  .
In fact, I have started fantasizing about my brother-in-law, who is a divorcee and keeps visiting our house. I think it would be immoral but a convenient arrangement for both of us. Should I approach him and tell him about this? Please advice.—
 
 
 
  I understand that you find yourself in a difficult position, caught in what you perceive to be a moral dilemma. It must have been difficult to deal with an accident that not only had an impact on your husband’s physical condition, but also led to a sudden drop in your sexual experience.
 
 I would refrain from judging your proposition from a moral or immoral stand point, instead I would like you to understand that sex is our basic physiological need just as hunger is. Thus, it would be best to not allow guilt or shame be attached to its craving. In fact, it is perfectly normal to experience the craving at this age when there is an abrupt stop on your sexual satisfaction. 
 
 Also, it may sometime happen that when your husband is vulnerable and unable to satisfy your sexual needs- another man (in this case your brother in law) may start seeming attractive. As he visits often, he may become a rescuer in the given traumatic situation, or the significant male of the house on whom you and your daughters depend on. This is programmed in the mate selection as per the evolutionary perspective– where women tend to get drawn to mates who can provide and offer support needed for the survival of the offspring. 
 
 I do not have any clarity about your husband’s condition and his physical limitation post the accident. However, I would recommend seeking help for the same. Several physical conditions do allow sexual encounters using different and more convenient positions. Thus, explore the possibilities together. 
 Also, sometimes people take time to recover from the trauma of the accident. The stressful situation makes them unable to perform sexually for a period of time, until they are healed or recovered. Thus in either case, be it a physical condition or an emotional trauma, help is available that can offer you both a chance to enjoy a satisfying sexual relationship. Explore the different possibilities and widen your experience together. Even touches and cuddles can be sexually satisfying to begin with, and then slowly work on restoring the intimacy. 
 
 Despite all the efforts, if your husband’s condition does not offer hope of recovery for your sexual relationship, then approaching your divorced brother-in-law or not depends upon several considerations. What impact would it have on your relationship with your husband? What about the relationship between both the brothers? Think about your relationship with your brother-in-law during your future social encounters? How awkward would your relationship with your brother-in-law become in case you approach him, but he does not reciprocate? And how openly would you like to discuss this with your husband– would you be honest or to be discreet about it? How would this affect your husband’s recovery and coping from the accident, and what impact it will all have on your daughters?
 
 I would suggest, instead of attempting to strike an arrangement with your brother-in-law (which may make many other relationships awkward), it may be a better idea to help your husband heal and recover. In the meantime, reflect on your own needs, commitments and circumstances. You can also consult a professional who can help you work through your decisions.
 Sex and trust are both equally important in a relationship – choice is yours!
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
