LUCKNOW: Organised gangs of auto thieves are on the prowl in city streets with no fear of police. On Sunday, seven two-wheelers and one SUV were reported stolen from different parts of the city. Though instances of vehicle thefts are taking place in the same area continuously, city police have failed to nab the miscreants.

 On Sunday, eight victims kept making rounds of different establishments to secure   footage. Businessman Moinuddin Ahmad’s SUV was parked along the boundary of Reserve Bank of India building in Gomtinagar and was stolen around 1.30pm. Ahmad had gone to attend a cultural event at  . “When I stepped out, the vehicle was missing. I called up police control room and lodged complaint immediately at Gomtinagar police station,” said Ahmad.
 
 With no support from police after lodging FIR, Ahmad took it up on himself to probe the case and found a CCTV camera had captured the theft. “Three persons got off a hatchback car after parking it behind my SUV and while one kept watch, the two others pushed it down the road which was completely isolated. The group then broke open the glass and used duplicate key to drive away the SUV,” said Ahmad. 
 
 Around four   have been reported in the city daily in the past three months. “A lot of policemen were transferred after or during elections and replaced with new personnel but situation will stabilize in next few days. Motorists should take precautions and use paid parking if it is available,” said DIG Praveen Kumar.
 
 Hazratganj and Gomtinagar remain the most vulnerable pockets in the city with highest number of vehicle thefts reported under these two police stations. BA final year student, Aman Shukla reached Bainsakunth in Hazratganj to attend last rites of an acquaintance.
 
 Around 11am, he parked his motorcycle and when he returned in 15 minutes it was gone. “I heard from other people that motorcycles are stolen from Bainsakunth every other day as miscreants are active on that  ,” said Shukla.
 
 DARK SPOTS 
 
 Bainsakunth in Hazratganj
 
 Civil hospital and Park Road in Hazratganj
 
 Janeshwar Mishra park in Gomtinagar
 
 Chatori Gully in Gomtinagar
 
 Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Vibhuti Khand
 
