BHUBANESWAR: BJP's impressive show in the first two phases has given rise to severe infighting in the ruling BJD. Soon after senior minister and BJD president   spilled the beans, party MP from   Baijyanat Panda on Thursday pointed fingers at the 'dadagiri' of some BJD leaders resulting in party's debacle.

 "In Kendrapada, the public has punished a group doing 'dadagiri'. They even tried to obstruct my rally," Baijayant said in an apparent dig at Mahakalapada BJD MLA  , with whom, he (Baijayant) has reportedly been at loggerheads foe quite sometime.
 
 Baijayant's statement came in response to a tweet by one Sanjay Khilar stating that in BJD people blame him for party's defeat in Kendrapada district. To this, Baijayant countered citing BJP's stunning performance across the state. "Who's to blame for rest of Odisha?" Baijayant asked in his tweet.
 
 Kendrapada is one of the districts in the coastal regions where BJD, despite viewing it as its impregnable fort has so far conceded eight zilla parishad seats out of 14 in the last two phases of elections, according to unofficial sources. With 18 mores ZP seats to go for polls in the remaining three phases, BJD apprehends to lose more to the saffron brigade. 
 
 Minister Damodar Rout had on Wednesday threw a spanner at his own party describing BJPs success among others to loss of credibility by some local MLAs and underhand dealing of some BJD leaders with Union minister  .
 
 Baijayant's tweet has provided new fooder to many members in the BJD to apprehend hard times for the party ahead.
 
 Cine star Uttam Mohanty, who joined BJD about a fortnight back, discovered severe infighting amongst party leaders resulting in party's poor show in   district. Mohanty was campaigning in Mayurbhanj district where BJP has captured 22 of 27 zilla parishad seats so far. Trends show the BJP is likely to get majority of the 56 seats and form the zilla parishad council.
 
 "The BJD has lost in Mayurbhanj district because of fighting among senior party leaders. The party will face similar debacle in the future as well," Mohanty told media persons.
 
 Several BJD leaders corroborated Rout's and Baijayant's view and said unless strong remedial measures were taken, the party may land in further trouble. "After the completion of the panchayat polls, the party will certainly take stock of the situation and chalk out future course of action," said BJD spokesperson Surya Narayan Patro. 
 
