GURUGRAM: The father of a man accused in last August’s double murder and gang rape at a Mewat village was found dead on Friday morning, leading to tension in the area and a six-hour   as his family alleged he was murdered.

 Ramniwas (55) had allegedly been missing for a day and villagers found his body around 9am on the roadside near Mohammadpur Ahir in Tauru, off the   expressway. He had a gash on his head. Ramniwas lived in Nandu Ki Dhani, adjacent to Mohammadpur Ahir.
 
 His son, Sandeep, is among the four accused by police of murdering a farmer and his wife and raping their two nieces, one of them a minor, at Dingerheri village during an alleged robbery bid. The crime had stunned the entire state and a special investigation team was formed. Later, after   by villagers alleged the four had been framed, the government transferred the probe to the CBI. 
 
 Ramniwas’ family members and relatives kept his body on Bilaspur-Tauru road and blocked traffic till afternoon, demanding an immediate response from police. They accused some people in Mohammadpur Ahir of “murdering” Ramniwas to avenge the Dingerheri attack, alleging they had taken Ramniwas with them in a bike the previous night. 
 
 A huge police team rushed to the spot as tension built two sections of villagers. Deputy commissioner Mani Ram Sharma and SP Kuldeep Singh also rushed to the scene, as did Tejpal Tanwar, the local BJP MLA and village sarpanch Mukesh.
 
 But the blockade was lifted only after the police filed an FIR against eight persons the protesters had named. Two of them were detained by the police for questioning. Police were warned of renewed protests if arrests were not made in three days. 
 
 “First, our son was wrongly implicated and now they killed his father. Our family has been ruined. We want justice. We have been pleading for a fair trial but are turning into victims of revenge,” said Ramniwas’s wife.
 
 “We appeal to people not to spread rumours and maintain peace. Our investigation has started. The autopsy report of the victim is awaited,” said Kuldeep Singh, SP, Nuh.
 
 
