MADURAI: A stone quarry in Madurai fetched an   of Rs 21 crore on Thursday, perhaps the highest bid in recent times, raising serious questions about the   itself. It has been alleged that the bidding was a farce to   and secure it for a very low price or an attempt to prevent the genuine bidder from buying the quarry. 

 Due to the   in Madurai district, stone quarries are regularly leased out. There are about 60 stone quarries in the district of which tenders were issued for 29. Since there is a stay on the auction of four of these quarries, 25 were put to auction on Thursday. The government had fixed a minimum amount for these quarries and as it was alleged that the amount was too high, 24 quarries were not auctioned for the third time in a row. Many of these quarries are money spinners and the government had hiked the base amount recently to ensure that it too benefited from the auctions.
 
 Stones from these quarries are used as ‘crusher’ stone for concrete and ‘jalli’ for roads while the bigger blocks are used to pave water channels,   steps and to build foundations of big buildings. They are also used in  .
 
 The minimum amount for the T Mettupatti quarry was fixed at Rs 1.5 crore by the government this time. The last time the quarry was auctioned was about ten years ago for Rs 2 crore and it was expected that the highest bid would be Rs 5 crore this time. The first bid was made for Rs 2.05 crore by one Athimuthan when suddenly, a person named Sundarbabu made an extraordinary bid for Rs 20 crore. As silence descended in on the room and participants and officials looked shell-shocked, efforts were soon made to give him the quarry. Officials got into the process of obtaining his signature on the files when another ‘surprise’ bidder Alagupandi quoted Rs 21.01 crore. Finally, yet another person identified as Satheeshkumar of Thirupalai made the last bid for Rs 21.05 crore. However, there was more drama when the final bidder did not remit the mandatory part payment that had to be made on the spot. The file is now pending before the Madurai district collector whose decision -- he can even cancel the auction -- would be final .
 
 President of the Madurai District Anti-Corruption cell P Somasundaram said that the extraordinary bid showed that it was done with the purpose of not allowing the genuine bidder to get the quarry. ``Many stone quarries are taken by the benamies of politicians who destroy the land and also cause huge revenue loss to the state. Politicians of both the Dravidian parties lead the list,’’ he said.
 
 Madurai district Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam secretary A Asokan, said that this was a planned act of a quarry mafia where many persons joined hands and paid the deposit for the tender and later made the bid and shared it among themselves. “If it is proved that the highest bidder indulged in malpractice, such persons should be blacklisted and prevented from participating in future auctions,’’ he said.
 
