NEW DELHI: A day after the violence at North Campus, a semblance of normalcy returned as classes were cancelled due to an annual flower show and Friday being a holiday. 

 The police, whose alleged action against journalists and inaction against ABVP activists attracted widespread criticism, took no chances on Thursday as Ramjas was made out of bounds for all except students and staff with valid ID cards. 
 
 Union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday that the government wouldn’t intervene in the matter but would ensure that necessary police action was taken. He also said that he had asked for a report on the violence from the university. 
 
 Though no untoward incident happened during the day, the atmosphere on campus was charged. There was heavy police presence on   leading to  . Water cannon were parked along the route to prevent any violence during demonstrations by NSUI and ABVP activists. 
 
 Earlier in the day, DU vice-chancellor   condemned the violence and said the chief proctor’s office would look into the incident. 
 
 “It is unfortunate and there is no space for such act in an academic institution. Such an act of violence doesn’t give happiness and students should maintain peace,” Tyagi said.
 
 When asked about the allegations by Left groups that the university administration was going soft on ABVP, Tyagi said, “Everyone is our student and all are same for the administration.”
 
 There were rumours that Ramjas College had cancelled classes. In reality, all university classes had been cancelled on account of the flower show at the lawns of the Viceregal Lodge, the residence of the DU vice-chancellor. 
 
 There were also social media forwards about students leaving hostels. “There is fear among the students as many, who were not part of any Left or Right groups, also got caught in the violence. I have been receiving calls from my students if it is safe to be in the campus,” said Debraj Mookerjee, an associate professor at Delhi university’s Ramjas College.
 
 Ramjas principal   also denied that he was manhandled. He said the staff council would have an emergency meeting. He said there was nothing to worry inside the college and that the entire incident was politically motivated. “The hostels are safe and there is adequate security. No students are leaving hostels out of fear,” said Prasad.
 
