MUMBAI: CM Devendra Fadnavis’s order staying an irregular SRA (Slum Rehabilitation Authority) proposal at Tardeo’s   following TOI’s report recently is expected to slow down the construction of a third luxury building at  , officials say.

 The complex has two 60-storey buildings housing among the most elite residences in the city. Plans for a third building had been approved last year on the basis of extra construction rights generated by expanding the slum tenements on the site.
 
 Initially, the project was allowed to utilize 14,590 sqft of extra construction rights. And it had been granted permission to construct a plinth, SRA officials said. After the stay order, it will take longer to access an additional 71,822 sq ft of building rights for the project. 
 
 In SRA projects, a developer has to build new towers for slumdwellers on a plot of land. In exchange, he gets to build towers for sale on the open market on a portion of the plot. In 2009, the slum societies here asked for an expansion of their tenements from 225 to 269 sq ft, termed a conversion. As a result of the extra construction for 2,334 slumdwellers, the developer had to build 1.1 lakh square feet for the tenements and gained 82,764 sqft of building rights for free sale. In April, then SRA chief Vishwas Patil sent the state housing department a proposal saying the developer S D Corporation was in the process of expanding 300 tenements but the rest of the 1,969 slumdwellers no longer wanted an expansion. He proposed that the developer be allowed to transfer the rest of the building rights meant for the slumdwellers towards building a tenement for project affected people.
 
 However, he suggested that the developer be allowed to retain the remaining free-sale component of the project. At 71,822 sq ft this was worth over Rs 500 crore.
 
 On June 21, housing minister Prakash Mehta sanctioned this proposal, although it went against DC rules. The DC rules have no provision for withdrawing or transferring the benefits granted to eligible slumdwellers. It is this order that Fadnavis stayed on July 11. SRA officials say that now S D Corporation can only access the additional free-sale construction rights by expanding the tenements of the pending 1,969 slumdwellers. “This will take several years since it took them three years to expand 300 tenements,” officials pointed out.
 
 
