PUNE: With a month to go before monsoon sets in,   has decided to keep an eye on unauthorized use of drinking  , and its illegal supply to construction sites. 

 Stating that there is enough stock in the dams, the civic administration is not considering any water cuts for the city. But a decision in this regard is expected next week at a meeting to be chaired by Pune guardian minister  .
 
 “We are not considering a cut in Pune’s water supply,” said an official from the PMC. “However, strict instructions have been issued to monitor the use of water, especially at construction sites and other areas where people use drinking water for other purposes, the official added. 
 
 The administration had last year initiated water cuts owing to depleted water levels in dams. This year, the collective stock has reached 7.04 TMC, about 2.42 TMC more than last year’s stock. This brought some relief to citizens. Every month, the city lifts around 1.25 TMC of water. For next two months [till July 15], the city will require about 2.5 TMC of water to maintain existing supply. Stock in   and Varasgaon have reached almost 0%, while Panshet and   are filled to a little more than 50% of their respective capacities.
 
 Officials in PMC’s water supply department said strict instructions have been issued to ensure judicious use of water. Swimming tanks in the city are strictly using recycled water. Construction sites will be subjected to sudden inspections to ensure that no drinking water is being used. Local inspectors have also been asked to carry out sudden checks at areas where there is a high probability of illegal use of water. The officials are also asked to identify illegal water connections and initiate immediate action, officials said.
 
 The irrigation department however claims that the city has already consumed its annual quota of 11.5 TMC and should now be careful in using water. Departmental sources said the city lifts more its stipulated quota of water. “Pune will continue to get the required quota of water as there is no plan to curtail the water supply. However, the civic body needs to curb water transportation losses and the illegal use of water. The city is already using an additional 3 TMC of water every year,” a source said. 
 
 Water cuts have been announced in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad despite enough water stock in Pawana dam. Meanwhile, the irrigation department is releasing water into Mutha canal for summer crops. The rotation is expected to continue for the next couple of weeks. 
 
