MUMBAI: While the   has seized upon Mumbai being ranked `first' for transparency , non-governmental organization   has clarified that of the 21 cities surveyed for the annual report, Mumbai is marginally better than the others given its resources.

 “This does not mean it is the best in the country. In fact what it means is that it is the least worst among the 21 cities that have been surveyed,“ said Anil Nair, deputy head of advocacy and reforms, Janaagraha. The Economic Survey of India 2016-17 has used Janaagraha's Annual Survey of India's City-Systems, 2015, to highlight urban issues. The Shiv Sena, which has been the ruling party in alliance with the BJP , for the last 20 years in the   is now on the backfoot. The BJP has made corruption in the BMC, particularly the poor state of Mumbai's roads an election issue.
 
 Chief minister   has made “transparency in governance“ his main poll plank. While the Siv Sena has unsuccessfully tried to highlight the fact that the BJP has been its ally in the civic corporation throughout, it does not seem to have cut much ice with citizens.
 
 In the verbal war, both have been targeting each other on corruption and governance. The survey has come handy for the Sena to show that it is already giving a transparent administration.
 
 Nair said both Mumbai and Pune scored high only because the state government that year had passed the Right to Services Act.
 
 Mumbai's budget of Rs 37,000 crore is equivalent to the budget of the next ten Indian cities in the survey put together and hence it is able to provide basic services. Nitai Mehta, convenor,  , described BMC's performance as `andhon mein kaana raja' (In the land of the blind, the deaf rules).
 
 “The BMC has been categorized as a transparent organization due to the sustained support and the Maharashtra government's critical role,“ said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. A high ranking bureaucrat told TOI that the BMC leadership failed to make Mumbai an international city and it scored only 4.2 marks in the survey as compared to London (9.4) and New York (9.7). “The city administration has collapsed. However, the Fadnavis government has come to its rescue during the hour of crisis. Although, Mumbai seemingly scores high on the parameter of transparency , accountability and participation, an analysis shows that Mumbai has scored well owing to pro-active role of the state government,'' the bureaucrat said.
 
