Pune: The debate on which side is superior, Pune or Mumbai, is a never-ending one, as the innumerable messages on social media and countless WhatsApp forwards testify.

 So when   sneaked to a one-run victory over Rising   to clinch a historic third Indian Premier League title in Hyderabad on Sunday, it gave Mumbai Indians bragging rights.
 
 Even before the nail-biting finish at the  , love-hate emotions were at an all-time high among Pune’s cricket lovers. 
 
  
  
 
 
 For the first time in IPL’s 10-year history, a team from Pune featured in the final. And clashing with the giants from Mumbai only upped the drama.
 
 Pune was, of course, ready to cheer its team on. Unlike previous occasions, when multitudes of cricket fans would huddle around even the smallest of shops that boasts of a television set, Sunday’s   experience was more about celebrating cricket close friends and family, over dinner or a round of beer.
 
 There was, predictably, a throng of cricket lovers at the many booked-to-capacity cafés and eating joints, which projected the match on big screens. Fans didn’t mind even a 30-minute wait for a table. 
 
 “Given their poor show in the past, we didn’t expect the Supergiants to come so far,” said businessman Nilesh Kante, who had come with friends to watch the match at a restaurant. “RPS played well this season and we wanted to watch this match with friends on a big screen,” he said.
 
  Sporting spirit was tested for fans of both teams, as each time wicket fell and or every run that was scored was met with jeers or cheers, as the case might have been. 
 
 “Before the match, we had a deal — if Mumbai did well I would get a treat from my Pune friends. If Pune won, I would foot the dinner bill. A you can see, it was a win-win situation,” said event manager Lokesh Sharma, after Mumbai’s innings.
 
 “It was a tough situation for me but in the end, Mumbai Indians saved me from going bankrupt,” Sharma quipped. “But as we finally decided to split the bill as both sides played well.”
 
 “Had I been at home, I would have switched off the TV,” expressed Mumbai Indians fan Rohit Mankar, whose team lost a bagful of wickets early on.
 
 “But watching the match at a restaurant didn’t give me that liberty. I have to take defeat in a sporting way. The more I sulked, the more I would have got teased by my friends,” Mankar said. 
 
 Later, after Mumbai got to that improbable victory, their fans took their bikes and cars out on a victory parade, rubbing salt on Punekars’ wounds.
 
