MEERUT:   and violent scenes were witnessed on Thursday morning in a   when carcasses of six stolen cows were found near a canal. The cows were said to have been stolen late on Wednesday night and villagers came to know of the theft only in the morning when they found the cattle missing.
 
  The villagers then began searching for the missing cows, only to find their carcasses. The incident happened in village Lakhanwada of Arnia block of Bulandshahr. Within a short while, saffron groups also became involved in the matter and raised slogans against the police, while village residents resorted to violence.
  
  Police too had to bear the brunt of the violence. When a UP 100 vehicle reached the spot, villagers damaged the vehicle and jostled with the cops also. Later, police from various police stations reached the spot but villagers resorted to stone pelting. Station officer of Khanpur police station, Rajveer Singh Chauhan, was injured in the attack.
  
  Following the incident, three policemen, including the SHO of Arnia police station Ashok Kumar, sub inspector Praveen Kumar and beat constable Sunil Kumar have been sent to police lines with immediate effect.
  
  Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sonia Singh told TOI, “The situation is completely normal. We have detained nine persons in connection with the incident and, after speedy investigations, we will arrest them soon, perhaps tonight itself.”
  
  Fore from 11 adjoining police stations has been deployed in the area to prevent the situation from worsening.
  
  Speaking to TOI, Bulandshahr district magistrate Aunjaney Kumar Singh said, “The situation is very much under control though tension prevails in the area as the matter pertains to religious sentiments of a particular community and also comes under the ambit of crime. Initially some right wing groups got agitated with the development but a transparent enquiry into the matter pacified them. Three policemen have been found to be derelict in their duties and action has been taken against them. Investigations are going and if we find others’ involvement also action will be taken against them as well.”
  
  Speaking to TOI, western UP in-charge of Hindu Yuva Vahini, Nagender Singh Tomar, said, “Six cows were stolen on Wednesday night. That cow slaughterers could steal and slaughter so many cows overnight hints at police development. We demand the suspension of the entire police station and related chowki.”
