BENGALURU: A 20-year-old student has alleged that a group of 40-45 men attacked and molested her, besides beating up her friend on Ballari Road, north Bengaluru, on Sunday night. The incident happened around 9 pm on the service road of the highway near  .

 Chikkajala police on Monday picked up over 20 men and later booked four of them after the woman identified them on a  . The woman and her friend were on their bike when a   came from the opposite side with its headlights off and stopped in front of them.When they told the scooterist that he was coming in the wrong direction, he got down from his vehicle, began hurling abuses at them and forcibly took away the bike's key, she alleged.
 
 “Suddenly people surrounded us ... and there were around 45-45 people. They hit my friend,“ the woman said.
 
 The FIR quoted the complainant as saying that she was pushed and touched inappropriately . The duo managed to snatch the key back from the attackers and sped away .The woman called her mother, who called the police control room but failed to explain the exact location as she did not know Kannada and the personnel on the other side could not speak Hindi or English.
 
 The woman and her friend later went to Chikkajala police station and lodged a complaint around 11pm. “We'll show images of more suspects to her,“ a police officer said.
 
 However, the accused told police they pushed the woman after she abused them in Hindi and English. “We were walking on the service road and stopped on seeing the woman and a few men fighting. We tried to pacify both groups but the woman asked us to mind our business. We lost our cool and shouted at her. She tried to attack us and we pushed her,“ two of the arrested told police.
 
 The arrested are  ,  ,   and Praveen Kumar.
 
 
 
 My friend and I were going on a bike at 9pm on the service road when one person on a Honda Activa came from the opposite side and stopped in front of us; his headlight was off. He started abusing us when my friend tried to tell him that he was coming in the wrong direction. He got down from the scooter and snatched our bike key. Suddenly, more than 40-45 people surrounded us. They slapped and started hitting my friend. They attacked me, pushed me to ground and touched me inappropriately ...
 
