Wondering what to write on your Facebook wall when it incessantly asks you ‘What’s on your mind’? Well,   (DU) has the answer. DU’s English department has sent out a formal proposal to include ‘Facebook post writing’ as part of its syllabus. In fact, colleges were expected to submit their feedback on the proposal by yesterday. Though the idea sounded strange to us initially, we asked students and professors in the city for their take. While not everyone has ‘meh’ed the idea, some feel that English Literature is not the best subject to include this course in...

 
 
 From posting fun pictures and creating memes to sharing their views on current affairs, Facebook has become the go-to place for youngsters to express their opinions. No wonder then that the proposal has got the students excited. Satyendra Nair, second-year Arts student at   says, “It seems like the calling of the future. Think of this as an additional component of letter writing in the 21st Century, and it all makes sense. Social media, by default, is not only part of our social life, but also a legitimate platform for keyboard activism. It would actually be refreshing to see fewer 'all caps' statuses that run into a redundant essay. It would be cool to see this course take shape and come to   as well.”
 The idea has piqued the millennials’ interest, who like information on the go. “Considering the influence the platform has on youngsters, it’s a good idea to teach them what to post and what not to post. It will also equip students to use the right language instead of everyday slang. If e-mail writing can be a part of our grammar books, why not a course on Facebook writing?” asks Shivani Chunekar, a Class XII Arts student from  .
 Many believe that social media is an effective platform for communication. Priya Joseph, assistant English professor at Mithibai College, says, “Today’s generation needs quick, short, active and intelligent text rather than lengthy and over-descriptive passages. So, I think teaching students how to be crisp, but clear when putting forward their views on social media is a great idea. There are times when they post unsavoury things and get into trouble. Any help from the language point of view is welcome. We need to move ahead with changing times.”
 Agnelo Menezes, Principal of St Xavier’s College, adds, “Students of Arts and Mass Media in our college learn this as a part of the Effective Communication Skills subject in the first year. Social media has become an integral part of our communication and students should learn to use it effectively. I believe that social media articulation is an important subject for current times.”
 Jhanvi K, journalist and a self-publishing author, says, “I publish my four-sentence stories on the portal. If youngsters want to make writing their career, I think they should be taught how to put social media to good use.”
 
 
 
 Students and professors think that this new course could make for an interesting lesson in social media ethics. Sarmishtha Roy, an English professor who coaches students for TOEFL and IELTS, says, “We live in an intolerant society and there have been far too many instances when an individual got shamed online for his/her posts. One of my students was forced to delete her profile after her views on the political scenario in our country offended fellow users and she was mercilessly trolled. If Facebook writing is going to be taught in colleges, I think the focus should be on internet ethics, respecting the views of others and cyber bullying.”
 Aaditya Shivkumar, a Class XI Arts student from Ramnarain Ruia College, adds, “People are getting into trouble just for stating their opinions. Even though everyone in the country is entitled to have an opinion, no matter how unbiased you are and how generic your post is, someone will get offended. Ever since I read that people receive threats and even get arrested for sharing their opinions online, I have stopped posting on the portal. I think that along with language, the course should also teach you how to post without offending anyone.”
 Kirti Bambak, a final-year Arts student from Guru Nanak Khalsa College says, “There are no set rules when it comes to writing on the wall. So, many of us get excited and post whatever is on our mind that instant. I think students should be provided with a basic guidebook — how to express your views without sounding like a fanatic.”
 The social media platform is as much about sharing pictures as it is about writing posts. Rijuta Walkar, an IT instructor, opines, “There have been so many instances where pictures that people post online have been misused. So, it’s important that students be taught about security and privacy. Moreover, the portal is being used for many things like live-streaming suicide! I think the course should concentrate on the dos and don’ts that one has to keep in mind while using social media. Also, kids as young as 10 use the platform these days. So, it won’t be a bad idea to include the course in schools as well.”
 Mithila Naik-Satam, a third-year BA student from SIES College, says, “The advent of social media and its changing dynamics has its pros and cons. A course on cyber security, pertaining to identity thefts could be useful to students.”
 
 
 
 Purists feel English Literature may not be the best subject to include this course in. Padma Natraj, English teacher with a CBSE school, says, “English is a romantic language and its charm lies in its words. And social media language is no fun. Some of my students turn in answer papers where they’ve written ‘d’ instead of ‘the’ and ‘u’ instead of ‘you’; SMS format is the bane of the language. I think teaching students how to write posts will be the last nail in English’s coffin.”
 However, professor Dr Jyoti Moghe, Vice-Principal and HOD, English at Bhavan’s College, feels that including the course for students is not a bad idea, but English is not the right subject. “Instead of literature, the course seems more relevant as a module in social media management.”
 Ayan Banerjee, first-year student of Arts in Jai Hind College, agrees, “More students can avail of this course if it’s not a part of English Literature. After all, social media is a way of life now.” Meanwhile, the proposal is in its nascent stage, and we’ll have to wait and watch to see if the course finds its way into the DU syllabus and at some point, in Mumbai University’s syllabus as well.
 
