JAIPUR: A   in Jodhpur allegedly fooled many of her clients who came to her for  .   would use cardiotocography ( ) machine and recorded video of sonography for disclosing sex of the fetus to earn hefty amount from her clients.

 Initially, the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PCPNDT) cell officials, who had arrested her on March 21, claimed that she had made slight adjustments in CTG machines by attaching to it ultrasonic transducers (probes), which normally are attached to sonography machine for sex determination. The probe is placed against abdomen of a pregnant woman to find out the health of the fetus in sonography. But, the lady doctor attached it to CTG machine and used a recorded video, which she played on her laptop for allegedly duping those coming to her for sex determination.
 
 However, the PCPNDT cell officials came to know that the laptop used by the doctor did not have any software which could convert the sound waves into image just like it is done in sonography or echocardiography. They found some recorded videos of sonography in her laptop. The PCPNDT cell officials roped in experts from government’s engineering college, associate professor and also a gynaecologist to find out how CTG machine can be used for sex determination.
 
 But, the experts did not find any concrete evidence which could confirm that the CTG machine could determine sex of fetus accurately as they did not find any software which could convert sound waves into images.
 
 “We are also taking help of experts to know how many times she had used the CTG machine on pregnant women for duping them,” Raghuveer Singh, PCPNDT cell in-charge said.
 
 Singh said that they were surprised to know that she was fooling her clients when expert committee was constituted by the PCPNDT cell to find out if CTG machine can be used for sex determination. The committee was formed under health department’s joint director (Jodhpur) Dr Sanjeev Jain.
 
 “We have received the report of the expert committee, which has revealed that CTG machine cannot be used for sex determination. There was a recorded video, which the lady doctor played on her laptop at the time when she was conducting the test with CTG machine,” Singh said.
 
 They had arrested Dr Susheila Khinchi, an MBBS doctor and her agent Kuldeep Joshi on March 21 for allegedly conducting sex tests. The PCPNDT cell officials also recovered Rs 35,000 from the possession of MBBS doctor and her agent during the decoy operation. Dr Singh alleged that the woman was also involved in abortions.
 
 “We are also conducting investigation on how many abortions she has done by duping people in the name of revealing sex of the fetus,” Singh said.
 
