KOLKATA:   and the data recovered from the Toyota Corolla Altis, steered by   Chatterjee early on April 29, showed the actor was driving at 95-105 kmph before the vehicle spun out of control and met with the fatal pre-dawn accident.  , who was with him, died within hours. 

 The police pointed out they now had proof that Vikram was speeding all the way from the five-start hotel on AJC Bose Road they last visited right up to the accident spot. “The CCTV camera footages at traffic signals helped in ascertaining that Vikram was speeding though we might not be able to accurately detect the figures as the car went past these signals fast,” an officer said.
 
 During interrogation, Vikram maintained he was driving at 60-70 kmph on the fateful night though the car’s Event Data Recorder (EDR)—similar to an aircraft blackbox that helped analyse the cause of an accident—indicated the car was travelling at a breakneck speed of 95-105 kmph, over twice the permissible speed limit of 40 kmph on  . A board near the Deshapriya Park intersection clearly states the speed restriction.
 
 “Even by what Vikram admitted before police, he broke the speed limit. He was therefore speeding. It surely invites prosecution under Motor Vehicles Act,” claimed a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar. Speed restrictions on different roads across the city were notified in 2008.
 
 At the Rashbehari Avenue-Trinagular Park intersection, barely 1.2 km from the accident spot near Lake Mall, a traffic sign board even warned motorists that it was an accident-prone stretch. Such a caution was meant to alert motorists to drive carefully there. With no relaxation of traffic norms at night, the speed restrictions remained constant through all hours. 
 
 But at the same time, the police admitted, flouting the rule was a common practice in the absence of too many vehicles and cops on roads. “People tend to make their own interpretation. Motorists often ignore sign boards, particularly at night. That is when roads become more dangerous because people travel at high speed and even the slightest misjudgment, error or lack of alertness can lead to a fatal crash,” said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar. 
 
 Some officers believed the penalty for speeding should be harsher to act as a deterrent. The current Rs 100 fine was a pittance that motorists did not have qualms handing out. “On Rashbehari Avenue, buses now follow the norms, but bikes, autos and cars pose a threat,” said an OC. The SP Mukherjee Road- Rashbehari Avenue and EM Bypass-Ultadanga Road intersections, along with the crossings at Moulali and Ultadanga, were the most perilous crossroads in Kolkata, showed traffic police survey since 2005. 
 
