PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Talegaon Dabhade Municipal Council has sealed 43 properties and severed 85   in a   and  .

 Vaibhav Aware, chief executive officer, told TOI, “The major defaulters against whom action has been taken include two industrial units, 16 mobile towers and 25 commercial shops. We have sealed two industrial units, one of which has arrears of Rs2.5 crore while the second unit has arrears of Rs62 lakh. We are taking action against defaulters irrespective of their backgrounds”
 
 He said the council has informed the head offices of state government departments whose offices in the civic jurisdiction have property tax arrears. These offices have given an assurance to clear their arrears by March 31, Aware said.
 
 The state government had recently issued a resolution, making it mandatory for municipal commissioners and chief executive officers of municipal councils to ensure 100% recovery of property and water tax dues as it was in their key result areas for their annual performance assessment.
 
 Aware said, “We are making special efforts at following the state government’s directive. We have sent property and water tax bills to the citizens three months back, informing them to pay their dues and clear the arrears at the earliest. After one month, we issued warrants to the defaulters informing their properties would be sealed and water connections cut if the dues weren’t cleared within 15 days.”
 
 The citizens will be given seven days to clear their dues after which their properties will be sealed. If they fail to do so, the municipal council will auction the properties to recover the dues and arrears. He further said that if the water connection is cut then the individual has to clear the dues and pay reconnection fees to restart the water supply.
 
 “We have published the names of defaulters having highest arrears in newspapers and will also be displaying their names at important busy chowks in the town,” said Aware.
 
 He said it will be for the first time that the civic body will auction properties of defaulters to recover the arrears. If any citizen helps the defaulter by illegally providing water connection from his/her premises, the municipal council will penalise such citizen and may also cut his or her water connection.
 
