LUCKNOW: In what is a concern for our society, sexual curiosity and failure to cope with rejection in love is driving minor boys to crime. In the past three months, five cases of minors raping minors have been reported.

 In three cases, the offenders confessed that an urge for a sexual experience after watching porn was the motive behind their heinous act. In one of these, two minors not only sexually assaulted a girl but also killed her.
 
 In the two other cases, the accused said they wanted to “teach a lesson" to the girls for rejecting their advances. In one of these, the daughter of a man was brutalized by miscreants to take revenge from him.
 
 In all cases, the survivors were below 12 years of age, with the youngest being seven years old. All “rapists" were between 14 and 17 years old.
 
 On Thursday, two brothers aged 14 and 15 years were arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl in Banthara. In their statement, the accused said they wanted to experience sex after watching porn. They first cajoled the girl into the “act", but when she re fused, they forced themselves upon her thinking that she would eventually accept it. However, when she began and screaming, they gagged and strangulated her out of fear of being caught.
 
 “The boys were illiterate but had access to the internet through their smartphones," said Banthara inspector Shiv Shanker Singh.
 
 Recalling the confession of a class XII student who had allegedly raped his school junior on June 2, PGI station officer Brajesh Rai said the accused was addicted to porn and out of desperation to have a “real experience", tried to lure a “friend" from his school.
 
 “I thought that as a friend, she would understand my feelings but when she rejected by advances, I couldn't control myself," he told police.
 
 On May 30, a 17-year-old boy in Indiranagar was booked for raping a 12-year-old girl who used to come to him for tuitions. Indiranagar SO Mukul Verma said the boy , who watched porn regularly, found no way to satiate his desire.
 
 In another incident reported from Indiranagar on May 15, a 17-year-old boy along with his two friends gangraped his 14-year-old “ex-girlfriend" when she allegedly ditched him.
 
 According to SSP Deepak Kumar, such incidents are a result of lack of guidance and proper monitoring of children.
 
 Every fortnight, TOI will take up an issue from recent news developments that we, as a society, need to talk about
 
 PSYCHOLOGISTS SAY
 
 'Sex education is need of the hour'
 
 Media onslaught and internet penetration are the major reasons behind children are getting acquainted with sex at an early age, say psychologists. With no adolescence education programme or sex education in schools, the information they get is often wrong and misleading, said a psychologist. Today, teenagers know more about sex than their parents did at that age. Kids are maturing faster than parents actually think, warns a counsellor. Psychologists also said that if a man molests or misbehaves with his wife in front of their children, it will leave a lasting impact on the child, resulting in such behaviour.
 
 Head of the psychology department at National PG College PK Khattri said that most teenagers booked for sexual offences are not criminals, but victims of misinformation. In the absence of proper monitoring and guidance, they are picking up behavioural aspects from media, which mostly presents sex in a titillating manner, and they go to extremes to satiate their fantasies.
 
 “Sex education can be of great help.It is not about sex, but about gender sensitivity, respect for the opposite gender, healthy habits and moral, social and health risks involved in unrestricted behaviour," he added.
 
 Prof Manju Agarwal from the institute of behavioural sciences at Amity University said that incidents of violence in families, where women are humiliated by men in front of children, are responsible for such acts. “Besides, children get exposed to the internet and start viewing porn sites," she said.
 
 “Parents cannot stop information flow but at least teach adolescents and put checks and balances on the use of the internet," she added.
 
