 is always game for trying out different genres in Mollywood. More than a decade after Anandabhadram, the actor is trying his hand at horror again with  , which, he says, is 'an honest take at the genre'.

 In between his shoot schedule for his upcoming movie Tiyaan, the star takes a break to tell us about the background research that went into the film, the potential of the horror genre in Mollywood and more'
 
 
 
 That's the stance the film is taking. It's a horror movie but there is no usual parallel comic track running through the narration. Having said that, I do believe that horror is just an element in the movie. It's got a very intriguing story that spans almost a century. The film is very intricately plotted with an underlying layer of a supernatural presence. I am also glad that the people behind the film were very clear that we do justice to what was there in the script. We were fortunate to have the backing of those who view success in the box office as a by-product and work with the aim of making a good film.
  
 
 
 Filmmaker Jay K had first narrated the thread of the movie in 2010. Has a lot of background work gone into the movie?
 Even when he came to me with the first draft of the film, he had done a lot of research and had the complete background information. Obviously, there aren't a lot of movie references on the subject, especially if you want to touch on the reasonably large Jewish settlements that existed in Kerala. I don't think a lot of people know that there were two such settlements ' one in Mattanchery and other in Chendamangalam. There used to be lot of Jewish traders and spice merchants who lived in Chendamangalam and used to come to Mattanchery for business and go back, journeying through the backwaters. The film though is not about Judaism, it's only got a Jewish backdrop.
 
 
 
 Both  's and my characters are introduced as a young couple who are very much in love. The plot sort of takes shape when the presence of this unexplained phenomenon comes into their life.
 
 
 
 I have been part of horror comedies in the past but as an actor I think I have grown out of those. I am no longer attracted to those films and they don't hold my attention. Vellinakshatram was a big success when it was released and I am not taking anything away from what it did back in the day. When Ezra came to me, I was pretty kicked about how it is a new take on this genre, at least in Malayalam. I kept telling Jay K that by the time he gets my date and makes the movie, there might be another genuine horror movie in Malayalam cinema. Because when you look at parallel industries in the South, there are horror movies releasing and finding success. But strangely, although there were attempts at horror, I don't think there was anything so true to the genre that was made during the gap I mentioned. I am glad that Ezra has that distinction of being the first film honestly taking a shot at the horror genre.
 
 In other industries, when a genuine horror movie found success, it kick-started a trend of more such films. Do you foresee that happening in Malayalam?
 I sure hope so, because it's an exciting genre to make films in. The possibilities are endless. Strangely, as an actor I realise that doing a horror film is a unique experience. Like when you shoot a character, you instigate the fear in the viewers by showing the fear in the actor's face without showing the audience what the actor has seen. The whole exercise of making the performance look instinctive is all the more significant in horror films. Even in terms of filmmaking, script, production design ' the possibilities are endless. I genuinely hope this movie kick-starts a healthy, sustained genre of horror films.
 
 
 
 Not really. In fact it's been a while since I saw a horror movie. The last such film I watched was The Conjuring on a flight.
 
 
 
 I am not a believer in the supernatural at all.
 
