PUNE: Citizens groups want the   to be trained on addressing the issues of the people. 

 These groups had reached out to voters from different areas and encouraged them to exercise their right to franchise. 
 
 With nearly 97 new faces in the  ,   have drafted a list of issues which they want addressed by the corporators. 
 
 Satish Khot of the National Society of Clean Cities told TOI that corporators from each ward need to hold mandatory, fortnightly meetings to take up issues in their areas. “With so many new faces in each ward, the corporators need to acclimatize to our demands. Many of them would not know how to go about it. They need to undergo training from their seniors, and they ought to have regular meetings with their mohalla committees to address local issues,” said Khot.
 
 Col S G Dalvi (retd) from the Vimannagar Citizens Forum, who has been propagating the idea of rainwater harvesting to address the water crunch in those areas, said a basic training programme is needed for all four corporators in every ward. That, he said, is better than just having the corporators around.
 
 “From the Pune Smart City plan to understanding the development plan of the city, from the issue of air pollution to other environmental problems like rapidly reducing tree cover, no infrastructure to treat 100% domestic sewage, complexity in implementation of 24X7 water supply, reducing groundwater level, are several among the issues,” Dalvi said, warning that a lack of such training programmes would only serve to delay the growth of the city.
 
 Of the 97 first-time corporators, 71 belong to the BJP-RPI combine, Nationalist Congress Party has 16, Shiv Sena has five corporators, Congress has new faces, two are independents, and MNS and MIM have one seat each.
 
 Advocate Radhikesh Uttarwar, who organized the Pledge to Vote campaign, stated the corporators need to submit bi-annual reports on the issues placed before them. “After the election, we have already interacted with the four corporators. The same has been done by mohalla committees from Vimannagar, Kharadi and Prabhat Road. Social media should be used to publish the area-wise works undertaken by these four members, which will keep the citizens updated. While it is clear that people have voted for the party, we will also insist on individual performance. Within two years, we have the assembly elections, and we as voters would be keeping a close watch on the party performance,” he said.
 
