MUMBAI: State-run   (NIC) has raised Rs 893 crore through subordinated debt which it mobilised from a clutch of investors including insurance companies and pension funds. This will help the insurer shore up its solvency margin, which is below the stipulated limit, as it prepares to list on the stock exchanges.
 
  The paper carries a coupon of 8.35% and is rated AAA and AA+. It is a 10-year paper with call at 5 years. There were six mobilisers for the issue including  , ICICI Securities and AK Trust. The issue got good response from investors as it is for the first time that a public sector insurance company has issued  .
  
  The trend to tap the bond market started in the earlier part of this financial year with ICICI Lombard, followed by   which raised funds from the debt market over the past one year.
  
  “This is one of the steps we have taken to shore up our solvency," said K Sarath Kumar, CMD, National Insurance Company. “We had taken approval from the regulator for the issue and it reflect will on our books as we close March 31, 2017." The amendment to the In surance Act, allowed companies to raise funds through both equity and debt.
  
  National Insurance had improved its solvency to 1.31 times during quarter ended December 31, 2016 from 1.26 times earlier. This is however lower than the required 1.5 times mandated by the regulator. Solvency shows the capital strength of a company.
  
  “We see this as a new trend as insurance companies who has been always big investors in the market raising capital from investors,“ said Ajay Manglunia, executive vice-president, (fixed income) at Edelweiss Finance.“This will widen the markets and add variety of options for investments.“ National Insurance Company has decided to raise its solvency to 1.5 times before hitting the market with an initial public offering (IPO).
  
  On January 18, the government has given its nod to list the four state-run   company and GIC Re, by which the government's share will go down to 75% in each of these insurers from the current 100%.
  
  NIC has a share capital of Rs 200 crore. Though it has a window of three years to improve its solvency level, it has initiated the process to shore up its capital base before the stipulated time.
  
  
