LUCKNOW: A section of   students on Tuesday endorsed vice-chancellor S P Singh's contention that those responsible for lawlessness in hostels were “criminals, not students“.“What name would you give to those who damaged biomteric machines and later broke into the Central Mess at night to steal   footage to destroy evidence,“ said Deepika Awasthi, MA student, reacting to the VC's remark that as an academician he can handle students but he is facing criminals who can be controlled only by police.

 Supporting her argument, Pranjal Dixit, another student, said, “Some of them came in a car to steal bags of ration. This is not behaviour that befits students.“ Students felt such people are a blot on their community. “There are many peaceful ways of raising voice against administration,“ they said, unanimously .
 
 Some students also felt using the word criminal for students was inappropriate and by inviting police intervention, LU was shirking its responsibility to enforce discipline. “Criminal is a wrong word to use for students of one's institution.There are some students indulging in indiscipline and disrupting services and LU must take action against them. But it seems LU is dubbing them criminals because it has failed to control them,“ said MSc student Vivek Gupta.
 
 Another group of students was of the view that LU should also take action against officials who have failed to control rowdy elements. Commerce student Divyanshi Singh said “The VC cannot run away from his responsibility by calling students criminals and asking for police intervention. He must first take action against his officials for not working efficiently .“
 
 Another student Ashustosh Singh said, “Even after four big incidentes in the Central Mess in a month, officials have not been able to identify a single rowdy element.“
 
 
 
 
 Lucknow University authorities must take action against rowdy students responsible for theft and vandalism in the central mess.They should also act against officials who have failed to check indiscipline. However, at the same time, students must realise that the central mess is their property and they need to protect it. Indiscipline disrupts services, hitting the common student the most.
 
 
