Madurai: M Sankaranarayanan, a   from Tirunelveli who raised a record 19,000 kilograms of paddy from one hectare, was among the special awardees at the Republic Day function in Chennai on Thursday. He received the agricultural department’s award for the high yield during 2015-2016 from chief minister O Paneerselvam.

 A diploma holder in textile technology, Sankaranarayanan, 49, of Puliyankudi decided to take up agriculture as it was his family tradition for 20 years. Two years ago, he decided to enter the competition conducted by the department of agriculture under the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and registered for the same. He decided to adopt the technology on one hectare of his field by following the guidelines of the department. He chose the high yielding rice variety of CR-1009 to conduct his experiment and received inputs on organic and inorganic manure as also pesticides. The 150-day cropping yielded 19,750 kg of paddy against the normal yield per hectare of 12,000 kg.
 
 As part of the work, a nursery had to be created using 8 kilograms of paddy seeds for cultivating on one hectare, and after fourteen days the best saplings were selected and planted on tiny plots of 2 cm x 2 cm. Last year, however, failed monsoons and drought conditions did not encourage farmers to go for this system, which Sankaranaryanan also did not undertake.
 
 Puliyankudi is an agricultural village in Tirunelveli where about 3,000 acres is under paddy cultivation. However, in 2016, less than 700 acres was cultivated and Sankaranayaran is doubtful if they will get even 50 per cent of the expected harvest. Farmers in the region are using well and tank irrigation to save their crops this season. Sankaranarayanan says that agriculture has also been suffering due to lack of farm hands as most of them are working under the government’s 100-day employment scheme. The SRI system requires plenty of water and the failed monsoons have dashed the hopes of these farmers of having even a minimal yield.
 
 
