NEW DELHI: Now that the applications for   have been submitted, schools have started compiling documents and initiated the admission process. Several popular schools received as many as 85 applications for one seat by the time the application process ended on Tuesday.

 Springdales School, Pusa Road, has 53   at the entry level in the general category but has received nearly 4,500 applications, which means at least 85 children are competing for one seat. 
 
 “The number of online registrations were around 6,000, but a number of them did not translate into actual applications. The number of applications that have attached documents with them and have been paid for are around 4,500,” said principal Ameeta Mulla Wattal. 
 
 Other schools, meanwhile, have slightly better ratios. For examples, Indian School on Josip Broz Tito Marg, has got 3,200 applications for 154 seats. This means 20 children will fight for each seat. Tania Joshi, its principal, said, “Last year we had received around 2,500 applications for the same number of seats. But this year, parents applied everywhere with the hope that their chances increase based on either of the two criteria (neighbourhood or those set by the school). The extension of last date for submission also helped. We saw almost 70 applications being filed on Tuesday alone.” 
 
 Rachna Pant, principal of Ramjas School in RK Puram, too noticed an increase in submissions on the last day, after the high court’s interim verdict went in favour of the private schools on DDA land. “In the final few days, we recorded a large number of applications, especially on Tuesday,” said Pant, adding, “This year, we have also seen a few more applications being submitted than last year.” Her school has recorded 1,367 applications for 100 seats, meaning around 14 students competing for one seat.
 
 But several schools like Mount Abu School in Rohini, DPS Dwarka, Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar and Ahlcon International in Mayur Vihar did not notice any change in the application traffic. “Parents have been seeing the back and forth on nursery admissions for several years now, and they prepare year round to apply to schools of their choice. They are used to the ups and downs of the process,” said Ashok Pandey, principal of Ahlcon International School, which has seen over 2,000 applications for 160 seats. Here 13 students will be fighting for one seat.
 
