LONDON:  , mother of four, returned to the   Tour after the birth of her son, the now 10-year-old Jagger Jonathan. The 41-year-old, who wasn't met with the support a young mother pursuing athletic excellence needed at the time, is appreciative of the atmosphere surrounding female athletes today ,   and Victoria Azarenka.

 Davenport, a former No,1, said a number of players will be looking to make the most of the time Serena is away from competition. Equally, she didn't discount Azarenka and Sharapova from making the season-ending field in October, which she thinks in the coming years will be a battle between the established stars and the fearless young brigade.
 
 
 
 
 It changes everything. Some players look at it like a big opportunity, others look at it like a little bit more pressure. They feel it's their time this year, because when she comes back next year... It's amazing to hear Serena talk about next year, when she comes back. She plans to be back in January in Australia. I love that enthusiasm, that motivation. Serena posting videos pictures of her practising while pregnant is obviously a message to everybody that 'I'm coming back.' That's why the rest of the players feel like it's wide open now. It will be interesting to see when the US Open is over, who the four Grand Slam winners will be. I would be surprised if one player has won two.
 
 
 
 
 It's imperative for fans all over to learn about everybody. Serena or Venus or whichever player you want to focus on is not going to be there forever. So this gives fans an opportunity to know them, the rest of the field. On the men's side it's phenomenal, amazing to see what Roger (Federer), (Rafael) Nadal, Andy (Murray) and Novak (Djokovic) have done. But even there, there's a time limit. It's important for fans to get to know some of the other players and stars.
 
 
 
 
 Elina Svitolina is in the best position with the consistency she has had this year. If you've listened to her through the year, she was initially talking about not playing here ( ) because of the Achilles or ankle trouble that she has had, so that she would be strong in the (American) summer in order to qualify for Singapore. That is a big goal of hers. You've got to love that enthusiasm.
 
 
 
 
 To play that high-risk style Ostapenko has is so tough. Even like the backhand at match point (in the final in Paris). I remember Timea (Bacsinszky) was saying after the semifinals she couldn't believe the return Ostapenko hit to win the match. She got to the final and it was the same thing. It was remarkable. We'll see if she can follow it up. She has the belief. She was obviously very confident of herself to showcase it on that stage, I liked how she has fought through here at Wimbledon in the first week, not playing her best tennis. I don't think Ostapenko would've been on my list of players to watch six months ago.
 
 
 
 
 We have established stars in the game ­Sharapova, Serena and Azarenka as well. I think the biggest goal for women's tennis is to have them healthy next year playing against younger players. For now we have the next generation of players that are coming up, developing their games, becoming more comfortable. We have comeback stories like Petra Kvitova and Viktoria Azarenka, for different reasons. We have to see what happens through the summer. I don't want to say who can qualify or cannot qualify. After the US Open we'll have a better sense of it. Women's tennis I think is in a great position going forward, but it is up to the players, up to their levels, their maturity, work ethic, confidence to see who can be there on a consistent basis. You still have to run a Tour without Serena.
 
 
