A horde of Punjabi singers living in Delhi gathered to celebrate  's birthday recently. Popular Punjabi musicians and singers like  ,  ,  , Girik Aman, Upz Sondh, A Bazz and Tatva K. A roulette-themed cake and a lot of flowers and wishes for the Saturday Saturday singer made the party a fun do. Dressed in a black shirt and white blazer, Indeep was surrounded by his friends and well-wishers throughout the entire celebration. Dilbagh came dressed in a black tee and a denim jacket, and had the most happy and smiling face at the bash. Fazilpuria, on the other hand, came in with his team and remained surrounded by his team members all the time. 

  
  WAKHRA SWAG: Fazilpuria with Indeep Bakshi
 
 
  
 The cake was the most interesting part of the evening, as it was given the shape of a roulette table, inspired by Indeep's love for casinos and a funny incident which had happened in Las Vegas. He said, "Poore saal kama raha hota hun. Phir bhi, jab casino mein Rs500 bhi jaa rahe hote hain na, main rota hun ki mere Rs500 chale gaye. My biggest stress buster is the casino. Wahan jaata hoon toh main saari tension bhool jaata hun. Hum shoot karne gaye thay toh ek hafta humne extend karwaya tha kyunki main paise saare haar gaya tha. Toh humne wahan se udhaar maange thay aur shoot poori kari thi. Isilye cake par specially Vegas likhwaya gaya hai."
 
  The birthday boy added, "Party toh poori zindagi chalegi - 27 years koi jaldi nahi hai. Aaj kal youngsters baarwi (12th) ke baad sochte hain ki apne papa ke paise udaaenge, because the next three-four years are more like a vacation for them. I think yehi time hai jab aap kuch kar sakte ho."
 
  
  Indeep Bakshi (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 The singer was in the mood to enjoy his day to the fullest, and be entertained, instead of entertaining others, for a change. Indeep said, "I am an entertainer. Aaj mera din hai. Baaki singers ko kahunga ki gaao, hum to hamesha logon ko nacha rahe hote hain. Everyone thinks that if a person is an artist, he lives his life to the fullest. But artists ke liye sabse tough hoti hai life – from hotel to the stage, then stage to the backstage and then again from hotel to your home. Aaj aish karne ka mauka mila hai. Aaj gaana nahi gaane wala main."
 
  
  
 
  Indeep will again be seen sporting the traditional turban in his next song. "Many of my fans have been asking me why I removed my turban. They say, 'You look so cool in a turban.' But I cannot pop a bottle of champagne wearing it. Meri shaan hai turban. So now, in this new song, I'll again be seen wearing a turban."
 
  
  SURPRISE! Tatva K (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
 We spotted Manu Punjabi, of ' ' fame, at the event. He wasn't one of the guests, but happened to be at the same venue where the bash was being hosted, with TV actress Mahira Sharma. Manu is currently in a live-in relationship with his girlfriend Priya Saini – they are set to tie the knot soon. When asked about his wedding plans, he said, "We are planning to get married soon. We will let you know when it happens."
 
 
 
  
  Manu Punjabi with Mahira Sharma (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
 
  
  Pawan Chawla with singer Dilbagh Singh
 
 
 
 
  
  Singer Trio: A Bazz with Kuwar Virk and Upz Sondh (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
