 (KUSHINAGAR): A walk into the Musahar Tola along the   is proof of what a curse can do. Three of four kids in this Musahar (community of rat-eaters) village of 115 families looked clearly underweight, less than 5% are in school and only one had studied till class VIII. They live in thatched houses and work as farm labourers but daily wages range from Rs 120-150 for men and Rs 60-75 for women.

 Some people had MNREGA card but with no entries. Almost all girls are married within a year of attaining puberty. Children are not sent to school though it is only 3km away. Women have not heard of family planning and all childbirth is at home. None of the families used soap and rice is the staple food. Fish from the nearby river is the only source of nutri tion. Solar lanterns and cellphones were the only signs of progress seen in the village.
 
 Their poor condition is fabled to be the curse of Param Brahmeshawar (Hindu god Brahma). Legends say that Parmeshwar created man and gave him a horse to ride. The first Musahar tried to sit on it but couldn't find a place to put his feet on. So, he decided to dig holes in the belly of the horse to fix his feet as he rode. This offended Parmeshwar and he cursed the tribe to earn their food by digging holes and became ratcatchers. Till late 1980s, Musahars in Hanumanganj dug holes and ate rats.
 
 But god alone is not responsible for their miserable life. “We are the face of Dalits but we have not benefitted from reservation at all.Better ones, like Jatavs, Pasi and Dhanuks, were able to make the most of it. Also, we are very different from them. So, we are demanding inclusion of their name in the list of scheduled tribes of India,“ said Ramjeet, head of the group in Hanumanganj.
 
 Elderly member, Gulab Musahar added, “In  , we are known as Adivasis... In south India, we are called Banwasis and both are tribal. In Bihar, we are known as Musahars and we are Mahadalits...but only tribal status can give us better life. Unless that happens, Jatavs will eat into our rightful due.“
 
 Elections have brought many politicians to the doorstep of the Musahars. Biggies are holding public meetings, while their representatives are showing their faces and folded hands. The musahars are listening to each of them. Recently, CM Akhilesh Yadav addressed a meeting in Khadda, about 15km from here. Young voter Serukhi, the only class VIII pass in the village, had gone to see the helicopter. “He did not mention a word about Musahars...how can we expect anything from him,“ said the 25-year-old.
 
