BAREILLY: A week after violence in Saharanpur left 1 dead and 14 injured, the state government has released a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to the family of the dead and Rs 1 lakh each to those injured in Shabbirpur village. District magistrate   said the compensation is being given from the chief minister’s relief fund.

  “One of the injured, Shiv Kumar, is critical and has besn referred to a higher facility in Dehradun. The state government will bear all his medical expenses. Similarly, all the 13 other injured persons will be provided free treatment,” the DM said.
 
  Rioters had torched and destroyed properties of 44 families in Shabbirpur over a clash between Dalits and Thakurs for carrying a loudspeaker-equipped tableau through the Dalit-dominated village on the occasion of   on May 5. The district administration said that the damage to properties was estimated to be around Rs 50 lakh and a report had been sent to the government.
 
  “By May 16-17, families of all the victims will be provided the compensation amount. Besides, the government has decided to give compensation of Rs 1 lakh to each of those families also whose houses were either torched or their properties were damaged during the violence,” Singh said.
 
  According to police reports, a large number of members of the   community were going to   village to celebrate the birth anniversary of Rajput ruler   on May 5. While they were passing through a Dalit locality, the residents there objected to loud music being played by them. This led to an altercation between the two and the Dalits allegedly became violent and resorted to stone-pelting. As soon as news of the violence spread to nearby villages, hundreds of members of the other community swooped down on the locality and, in retaliation, torched more than 20 homes and belongings of Dalits.
 
  This further worsened the situation as stone-pelting and gunfire began from both sides resulting in injuries to more than a dozen people. Almost the entire police force of the district, along with senior officials of the department and administration, including the district magistrate, deputy inspector general, senior superintendent of police, SP (rural) and others rushed to the spot. Sumit Pal (21), a Thakur, later succumbed to his injuries in a nearby primary health centre.
