DEHRADUN: After 17 pilgrims died on Char Dham yatra route in 19 days, 16 of them due to cardiac arrest, devotees have blamed the state government for lack of proper medical facilities on the route. Health department officials, on the other hand, have claimed pilgrims don’t adhere to dos and don’ts of the yatra and the elderly among them are getting struck by hypothermia (abnormally low body temperature) and hypoxemia (low concentration of oxygen in blood) resulting in cardiac arrest.
 
  Dr Tripti  , health department nodal officer of Char Dham yatra, said, “Of the 17, one died due to head injuries while all others succumbed to cardiac arrest triggered by hypothermia, hypoxemia and in some cases due to undetected disease (not known to pilgrims) as the autopsy reports revealed.”
  
  Ever since the yatra began this year on April 28, Kedarnath has recorded maximum eight deaths,   has witnessed three deaths and   and   saw six deaths. In totality, 10 men and seven women from different parts of country, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat and Rajasthan, have lost their lives on the yatra track due to cardiac arrest. According to health department statistics, the youngest to succumb to heart ailment was a 40-year-old woman who lost her life in Kedarnath while waiting for darshan followed by the death of a 45-year-old man from Chandigarh.
  
  Health officials said the numbers are higher than the last year. In 2016, the death toll due to cardiac arrest during the six-month yatra was 39 of which Kedarnath had 14, Badrinath witnessed 10, Yamunotri nine and Gangotri six deaths.
  
  Dr Bahuguna said, “Majority of deaths have occurred among pilgrims who were in their sixties and most of them must be suffering from high/low blood pressure, diabetes, respiratory problems, which exacerbate while one takes up the journey to higher altitudes.”
  
  According to Dr Bahuguna, pilgrims completely disregard the dos and don’ts the health department prescribes for them. “We are surprised to note pilgrims in Kedarnath roaming around in cotton T-shirts and normal shoes,” she said.
  
  “There are pilgrims who observe fast for days despite being diabetic. Others don’t realize their body's internal signals to remain hydrated or rest in between the trek. Although we have enough number of health check posts and oxygen cylinders at every 1.5 km of the yatra route, pilgrims need to be personally careful about their medical condition,” she added.
  
  Unlike Amarnath yatra, the health department has yet not made health certificate mandatory for Char Dham pilgrims. Dr D S Rawat, director, Uttarakhand health department, however said, “We suggest all those above 60 years of age to bring their fitness certificates and undergo medical tests at different health check posts set up on the yatra route.”
  
  The pilgrims, on the other hand, blamed the spike in cardiac arrest cases to lack of cardiologists in health facilities set up on the yatra route.  , a pilgrim from Kanpur who is travelling with a group of six including two senior citizens, said, “We have been cautioned by villagers here that none of their local hospitals have cardiologists. Everyone needs to rethink about health facilities that the hill state has on the Char Dham route.”
  
  For the record, Uttarakhand doesn’t have even a single cardiologist in any of its government hospitals, though 23 posts of cardiologists are sanctioned. Currently, there are two diploma-holder cardiologists (those who obtain a diploma in cardiology after their MBBS and are not MD or MS) in the entire state and both of them have applied for voluntary retirement.
