MAU: For two decades, voters here have elected a legislator whom they have barely seen. He's been in jail facing charges in over a dozen criminal cases, including for his alleged role in the murder of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai in 2005. Yet   Ansari holds sway over this east UP town dotted with stuttering power looms and hapless weavers.

 Bahubali (strongman)turned-neta Ansari, 56, is back in focus as a BSP candidate. Last week the Delhi high court stayed his parole and the case will be heard again on Monday . Nonetheless, some locals say Mukhtar is the man to beat with the Samajwadis' Altaf Ansari, owner of a bunch of power looms, emerging top challenger. 
 
 Since 1996, Mukhtar has won this seat four times in a row. He first triumphed with BSP in 1996. Then twice as Independent in 2002 and 2007. In 2012, he fought under the banner of Qaumi Ekta Dal, which he floated in 2010 and merged with BSP last month. 
 
 In the last two polls, Mukhtar's strongest opposition came from BSP . No surprise, his polling agent M S Mujahid feels the electoral maths is loaded in his favour.“In the last election, Mukhtar got 70,000 votes. The BSP candidate, who came second, earned 64,000. Since he's with BSP now, we expect a victory by a huge margin,“ he says. 
 
 But polls in UP are much more than mere adding and subtracting community votes. Fresh equations often unseat the mighty . There was a time when communists had a strong presence in Mau. CPI nominees won in 1974, 1985 and 1991. Then Mukhtar hap pened to Mau. The question is: Why does the town keep voting for him? Authentic figures are hard to come by , but it's estimated that Mus lims, many of them weavers or power loom workers, form 24% of  's population; Dalits are roughly the same proportion. As per guesstimates,   (14%), Rajbhar (9%), Brahmin (8%) and Thakur (8%) are the others with strong presence. Any candidate with Dalit and Muslim support is almost unbeatable in a town where communal riots took place in 2005.
 
 Rajnath Singh, a retired sociology teacher, says most Muslims here see him as a rehnuma, leader cum guide.“He's seen as a protector of the community," he says. 
 
 But local businessman Zulfikar Anwar says Mukhtar is more than a single-community leader. “He helps eve ryone who goes to him and never takes money for the work he does.“ Adds contractor Birender Yadav, “When he talks to someone to help you, it's always on the speaker phone. Work gets done.“ A health department official claims parties have in the past tacitly backed Mukhtar, either not putting up strong faces or not fielding any . This time there's no BJP nominee in Mau. The ticket has gone to Mahendra Rajbhar of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party , its ally. 
 
 Like other bahubalis, Mukhtar thrives on a patronage system cutting across communities. “He gets support from upper caste contractors for helping them procure government contracts,“ says Jaiswal, who believes Mukhtar has an edge. But SP's Altaf insists Mau voters want change. “There's a strong desire for development. It's not possible since the BSP candidate is in jail.“
 
 Locals say if SP sends big guns to campaign, it could encourage anti-Mukhtar voters to go with Altaf. Last year SP called off a merger with Mukhtar's party after Akhilesh objected. They say many Thakurs, Brahmins and Vaishyas could vote for SP . As   Singh, a Rajput associated with SP , says, “It could become an SPBSP fight. Many want to get rid of Mukhtar.“
