ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad high court has directed the director general of police (DGP) and the principal secretary, (home), of UP to issue directives in respect of investigation in sensitive cases involving mafia or influential people while emphasizing upon the need for a prompt, fair and impartial investigation. 

 The court also directed both the DGP and the principal secretary to formulate procedures for oversight and review of investigations in sensitive cases by the concerned senior officer, to be duly documented by way of reports.
 
 The court has given two months for completion of this exercise. Disposing of two writ petitions filed by Ram Kishan Singh of Allahabad and   of Hathras district, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice   directed the SSPs concerned to ensure that petitioners and other witnesses of the crimes referred to in the two petitions are accorded adequate security in addition of a free, fair and impartial investigation and, if any, complaints in respect of threat or intimidation of witnesses is received then the same shall be attended with prompness, thoroughly investigated and such steps shall taken as may be required. 
 
  had sought security cover as he had apprehended threat to his life from mafia-turned-politician and former MP  , as according to him, he was a witness in a criminal case against Atiq.
 
 On December 14, 2016, Atiq and his henchmen had allegedly barged into Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS), Naini, and assaulted its staff for taking action against two students who were debarred from taking the examination after they were caught cheating. Ram Kishan Singh was security officer of SHUATS at a time of the incident. 
 
 On February 10, the high court had summoned Atiq's criminal history. Subsequently, police arrested the former MP on February 11. Thereafter, he was remanded in 14 days' judicial custody and was sent to jail.
 
  was an eyewitness to his son's murder which had occurred on February 8 this year. 
 
 
