MUMBAI: Two men impersonating as cops forced a 46-year-old executive into an auto in Powai last month, took him all the way to Airoli and extorted money, threatening to book him in a false  . However, while one of the accused was apprehended hours later trying to extract more money from the victim, his accomplice is still at large. Moreover, the arrested accused, jailed in 2005 for a similar offence, is already out on bail in this case. 

 On January 29, Ghansoli resident Anil Salunkhe (46) had gone to meet someone near SM Shetty School in Powai at around 12.30pm. Salunkhe was waiting on the road when the two-Vijay Tatkare and Govind Chavan-approached him claiming they were policemen. They were wearing khaki trousers when they approached Salunkhe. In his complaint filed the same day with Powai police, Salunkhe said, "They said police had received a complaint from a woman saying I had taken her to a lodge in the city and raped her. I told them they may have mistaken me for some other person." But they refused to listen to him and repeatedly assaulted him, before forcing him into a waiting auto. 
 
 Powai senior inspector Bhai Mahadeshwar confirmed the incident. Investigators said the incident occurred on a Sunday when the area near the school is isolated and the accused probably found him to be an easy target. 
 
 "After taking him to Airoli they made him withdraw Rs 7,000. They allowed Salunkhe to go with a warning that they wanted another Rs 7,000 if he wanted to be freed of the case. They took away his mobile and noted down another contact number. They let him go home to get more money," said the investigator.
 
 Salunkhe approached the Powai police after the duo again called him later in the day to bring the rest of the money to Gandhi Nagar junction in Vikhroli. At around 5.30pm the same day, a team of plainclothes policemen laid a trap. "However, the accused kept changing the location. They called later Salunkhe to IIT-Powai gate, then changed the location to Powai Lake. Tatkare was caught when he came to collect the money while Chavan managed to escape," said cops. 
 
 Chavan still remains at large more than two weeks after the incident. 
 
 Tatkare (35) was booked under IPC sections 34 (common intention), 170 (impersonating a public servant), 338 (grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 342 (wrongful confinement), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life) and 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion). 
 
 Police said on January 30, the Andheri court remanded Tatkare to a day's police custody. The next day he was again produced before the court and was sent to judicial custody. However, he was released on bail after spending just two days in custody.
 
 During the probe, police learnt that the Sakinaka police had arrested Tatkare in 2005 and he had then been convicted for a similar offence. But police didn't know when Tatkare was released from jail in that case.
 
 
