“At least 36,000 citizens of our city should   and register their mobile numbers in the app so that GVMC can get 75 marks allotted for this parameter to be in the top 3 cities in the   this year. At present, our score is only 16,300. A city like Vijayawada with less population than Vizag achieved 24,000 downloads as of now. We are lagging behind....... In your family, there may be more than one smartphone. Your spouse or college going children may be having a smartphone. Please make them do it. Kindly help Vizag achieve to get best rank in   this year by doing this.”

 I received this exhortation yesterday in an email from a trade association keen on promoting “Brand Vizag”. As a proud resident of Vizag, my first instinct was to immediately download the Swachhata App on my phone (notwithstanding my technologically challenged status!). I also count my blessings that I belong to the privileged category who can afford a smartphone replete with its promises for a better living. Whether my recent entry into this ‘Street Smart Club’ will help to improve my city’s ranking would depend on the smartness and aggressiveness of moves from other municipal corporations. 
 
 A lack of exposure to modern day ‘personality development’ training courses may make me appear like a laggard when it comes to gearing up in a race for a ‘Numero Uno’ slot or in garnering Facebook Likes! Nor, am I accustomed to flexing my muscles with “Born to be a Winner” attitude that is pumped rigourously into a Miss India/ Mr India wannabe at each qualifying round. I tend to be more of a ponderous thinker going into the grassroots of a problem, verifying the ground situation with my own eyes. Blame it on my earlier professional grounding with the Indian Railways, “Always Ensure, Never Presume”.
 
 I set out for a long walk in the wee hours of the morning before sanitation workers commenced their work. My neighbourhood comprising Seethammadhara, Doctors Colony and HB Colony has a blend of both residential and commercial establishments. These areas score better in the Cleanliness Index vis-a-vis other areas in Vizag possibly because the local MLA and other influential people reside nearby. A walk is the only way of acquainting oneself with the “fons et origo” - the source and origin- of uncontrolled garbage spilling on to the streets. The culprits, as is common knowledge, are:
 
 i) Garbage bins 
 
 ii) Eating places, both restaurants and roadside hawkers 
 
 iii) Vegetable and wholesale markets 
 
 iv) Public places of worship/ gatherings, where the aftermath of public revelry results in garbage being strewn around 
 
 v) Construction debris
 
 However, their solutions would require going beyond the software of a smartphone!!
 
 Control stray dogs:
 
 The biggest eyesore was the garbage spilling over from a couple of garbage bins in Doctors Colony. A closer scrutiny revealed that this mess was caused by dogs climbing on to the bins foraging for their food, scooping out all the waste and littering them on the roads.
 
 Whether animal lovers like it or not, cleanliness drive and controlling stray dog menace have to necessarily go hand in hand. Otherwise all the hard work of our sanitation workers in the centralised collection of garbage will come to a naught! Stray dogs tear open plastic garbage bags the moment they are unloaded. Can you visualise a similar situation in the advanced Western countries who we are trying to emulate in improving our ‘liveability index’? 
 
 There are garbage bin hunters in developed western countries too (though their standards of pick are higher!). They are luckier to go about with their jobs surreptitiously in the cover of the night without engaging in duel with street dogs!
 
 I am aware that my statement will definitely raise the hackles of all animal lovers in the city, more so of the variety who can afford to zip around in the protective comfort of their four wheelers, without the need to trudge lonely roads in the middle of the night. They are a vocal and influential lobby and are known to stymie the efforts of GVMC in controlling the stray dog menace. Outwardly, developed countries may show overflowing compassion for canines. But, we must remind ourselves that these very nations have zero tolerance for even an ounce of dog poop on the street, let alone a stray dog without a leash! It is time we also check notes with animal lovers in the West. 
 
 The next time you see plastic garbage strewn on the streets, remember it is not just the sanitation workers who are to be blamed! In our misplaced sympathy for stray dogs, we may be just turning a Nelson’s Eye to the crux of the problem. “Smart” Vizagites (also synonymous with “Elitist” Vizagites) cannot aspire for a Clean Vizag if we cannot address the menace of the burgeoning stray dog population.”
 
 
 
 
 Fines should be imposed on those not keeping two bins. This is where the sincerity and probity of a municipal health inspector will be put to test. There should be regular inspections to ensure garbage from a roadside stall being emptied into a centralised point.
 
 
 
 
 The unpredictability of the human bladder is aggravated by a lack of self restraint in our people. Thus, there is an urgent need to construct more static toilets at vantage points with mobile toilets to fill in the gaps. All private bus pick up points, shops and eating places should compulsorily have toilets, not just for their staff but also for their customers. If they do not have one, they should be asked to sponsor a common toilet in the near vicinity. Norms should be worked out for the location of a toilet, in terms of the intervening distance or the density of floating population for that area. Conspicuous and adequate direction boards should be placed in front of their premises to guide anxious public to the nearest toilet. 
 
 Politicians boasting of reaping the demographic dividends of India should also note with caution that a surging population also means billion bladders bloating with alarming regularity desperately seeking right receptacles in secluded privacy!!
 
 
 
 
 Sacrilegious it may sound, some temples have stopped allowing offerings in the form of flowers or coconuts. Local religious beliefs and, more importantly, commercial impact on the traditional vendors could prevent us from enforcing a total ban. In that case, it is all the more imperative that each temple installs a self contained waste removal or waste recycling unit. Or else, it should pay for garbage clearance at regular intervals. Garbage control during the annual 32 kilometre circumambulatory Giri Pradakshina would be an altogether different ball game.
 
 
 
 
 Can we design a “Dial a Debris Truck” App for the lifting of construction debris on a day to day basis at sites witnessing construction/demolition? 
 
 Improve ethical behaviour:
 
 Above all, honesty is required in each municipal official to ensure strict implementation/ enforcement of rules coupled with added responsibility and self restraint from the public. The motto of my Alma Mater, St. Xavier’s, Bokaro, can be an inspiration for us — “Roopantarikarinyam” — Change yourself from within!
 
 (The writer is a retired Indian Railways official now involved with rural education. He can be reached at himakartata@gmail.com)
 
