The immediate attention given to an injured person plays an important role in the healing process.   practice needs to have an accurate procedure as even a minute's delay can cost someone's life. Let's take a look at how it is supposed to be done...

 
 
 
 
 For minor burns, immediately try to stop the person’s contact from fire and put the burned area under running water for at least 10 to 15 minutes. Lightly pat the burned area with a soft and dry towel. Apply moisturiser or aloe vera gel on affected area and consult a doctor as soon as possible.
 
 
 If it is a major burn, immediately take the person far from any smoldering material, smoke or heat. Do not remove burnt clothes that are stuck to the skin. If possible, remove restrictive items like jewellery or belts from the affected area. Avoid putting water as it may drop the blood pressure and use a clean and cool cloth to cover the affected area. Rush the victim to the hospital immediately.
 
 
 
 
 
 Never apply iodine, spirit or peroxide to clean wounds. This practice burns healthy cells which are important for the healing process. Instead, use water. Once thoroughly washed with water, apply a healing cream.
 
 
 
 
 
 Extreme weather conditions can cause nerves to burst, which results in nose bleeding. So, in case of nose bleeding, avoid tilting your head back. This may result in blood falling back into the lungs. The correct way to stop your nose from bleeding is by keeping your head straight and applying ice on the exterior part of your nose.
 
 
 If you are prone to nose bleeding, there is a way to prevent it. Add a teaspoon of herb goldenseal (that can be purchased online or in stores) in a pint of water and place this mixture on flame. Allow it to boil. Once boiled, bring it down to room temperature. Take a few whiffs of this water into your nostrils. Do this twice or thrice a day for best and effective results. Make sure you let the solution to settle down to room temperature as heat could burn sensitive nose tissues. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Road accidents cause panic and in that state, people tend to hurriedly drag the injured person out of the vehicle. This is definitely a wrong practice. If the vehicle is not burning, avoid pulling or dragging the person. Call an ambulance so that injured person can be taken safely to the hospital. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forcing a person to throw poison out of his/ her mouth will never help. This practice may choke them or poison may fall back into the lungs. If you encounter a person who has consumed poison, call a doctor and if possible take the safety instructions over the phone.
 
 
 
 
 
 Seizures, also referred to as fits are caused by interruption in the electrical activity of brain. This can be the result of epilepsy. A person may not show any symptoms, but in severe cases he may lose consciousness. He may also experience convulsions.
 
 
 In case you encounter a person who has suffered fits, do not put a spoon or any hard object in his mouth. This practice may suffocate the person and can complicate the situation. Instead of putting something in the mouth, make him lie on a bed and place a pillow under the head. After the episode, change the sleeping posture.
 
 
 
 
 
 A tourniquet is a device which is used to control venous and arterial circulation. They are usually tight bands that are applied on the injured limbs to control the loss of blood. An incorrectly applied tourniquet may lead to amputation. So, you should know the right way to apply a tourniquet. Place a bandage on the wound and hold down strongly.
 
 
 
 
 
 In case of a poisonous animal bite or sting, never suck out the poison. This may cause cardiac failure to the victim. The right way to survive poisonous animal bite is to make the person lie down and placing the wounded area lower than the heart. Place a bandage on the bite or sting and immediately call a doctor.
 
 
