AHMEDABAD: After his arrest in the   case,  , a constable posted at Satellite police station, was suspended by DCP Zone VII Vidhi Chaudhari on Wednesday. On Thursday, Chaudhari handed over the probe into Padheriya’s role to an ACP-level officer.

  Speaking to TOI, Chaudhari said the decision was taken after she was informed about the arrest and Padheriya’s involvement in the case. “According to procedure, the case will be investigated and departmental action will be taken. We had earlier received a complaint about Padheriya’s conduct and due steps have been initiated,” she said.
 
 Sources said Padheriya, a native of Adroda near Bavla, was earlier part of Satellite police station’s surveillance squad, which is considered an influential posting. When the police inspector complained about his conduct to higher-ups, he was transferred to police control room van. He had got regularized as a constable from his rank as a Lok Rakshak Dal jawan a few months ago. 
 
 “The complaints against him, however, did not end there. On patrol, he would venture to undesignated stretches such as SP Ring Road on the pretext of vehicle checking for unspecified reasons,” said a city police official.
 
 According to   (SOG) investigators, Padheriya was a partner in the call centre venture without investment. His relative   had rented out his premises for the purpose. He had assured the call centre operators of protection. 
 
 On Wednesday, the SOG had busted the call centre involved in IRS scam from Bavla from where 13 persons had been nabbed. The accused included three minors and one woman. Three of the accused had earlier worked with call centres run by Sagar Thakar in the city and elsewhere. 
 
 While sources said that the 13 computers seized from the premises on the first floor at Sai Crystal on Bavla-Sanand Road have been sent to Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) for forensic analysis, the SOG officials said that they have no new information from the accused. 
 
 “We are in search of Mrunalsinh Solanki, a resident of Dholka, who is named as the prime accused. He is named as the person who used to get leads, run the operations and also managed the money part. We are yet to ascertain the scope of the scam,” said an SOG official, claiming that the accused have revealed nothing new.
 
 
