Mumbai:   Group chairman  , unlike his predecessors, is inducting ‘financial specialists’ to reconfigure operations at the $103-billion salt-to-software conglomerate. He has been reaching out to several investment bankers in a bid to build his own team at the group’s holding company,  . 

 Chandrasekaran is expected to hire half a dozen investment bankers to assist him at Tata Sons, two of whom have been finalised. Tata Sons has hired Ankur Verma, a telecom dealmaker, from  , and Nipun Aggarwal, who specialises in metals & mining and energy, from  .
 
 At least three senior bankers, who have assisted the group in past deal-making and restructuring, are expected to board the country’s largest private conglomerate, said people with direct knowledge of the matter. They didn’t disclose the names of these veteran bankers as their appointments are under discussion and still in private domain.
 
 Each of these investment bankers, who are experts in their fields, will oversee the Tata group’s businesses in their domain areas and advise Chandrasekaran in formulating strategy for consolidation and divestures. Sources at Bombay House, the HQ of the group in South Mumbai, said the new chairman is focused on streamlining businesses to improve shareholder returns in a “multi-speed group”. 
 
 The rationale, said the same people, is to have a tighter control over the financials of the companies, some of which are stressed and troubled. The group’s cumulative debt is $24 billion and has several legacy businesses that are underperforming industry rivals. 
 
 Chandrasekaran intends to bracket the group’s various companies into industry clusters and then assign each of them to new recruits. These people will then monitor the financials and operations of the industry cluster assigned to them. They will also be responsible to turn around the companies under their supervision. 
 
 The sources quoted earlier explained that, for instance, one banker will look at the information, communications and technology cluster while another will oversee the manufacturing cluster. Former Bank of America executive Verma will assist the chairman’s office in cleaning up Tata Teleservices, the struggling telecom unit, which the group would like to divest as part of the recent industry consolidations. Similarly, Standard Chartered executive director Nipun Aggarwal will advise on companies like Tata Steel and Tata Motors.
 
 This is the first time Tata Sons under Chandrasekaran is creating a ‘financial specialist’ role in the company. The company’s previous chairmen, Ratan Tata and Cyrus Mistry, had set up core advisory teams consisting of Tata veterans as well as lateral recruits. Also, the members in those groups were from various business functions like operations, HR, marketing and finance. Chandrasekaran has no immediate plans to form a core advisory team on the lines of what Ratan Tata and Mistry did during their chairmanship.
 
 
