JAIPUR: After replacing foreign authors from the syllabus, Rajasthan University’s commerce department has replaced their works from the list of dissertation topics. The suggested topics for dissertation include Vedas and management, Lord Krishna, Lord Mahavir, Mahatma Gandhi, relevance of Gita, management of stress through Yoga etc. These were included by axing topics on sectors—banking, finance or specific studies on government financial bodies for dissertations by semester 4 students of M Com.

 “The move is intended to make students aware of the great contribution made by the Indian scriptures, religious figures and Indian Philosophy in shaping the management world over. These epics have all elements which form the basis of modern day management system,” said Professor  , former principal of   and former head of syllabus revision committee.
 
 Chapters by the foreign authors like Robert Owen, James Burnham, Mary Parker Follett, who pioneered in the field of organizational theory and organizational behaviour, Oliver Sheldon, known for his public and business administration rules were replaced to give space to philosophies of Swami Vivekanand and Mahatma Gandhi along with religious texts in Ramayana, Mahabharta and Gita. 
 
 “Most of the management theories and hypothesis accepted globally were taken from India epics dates back to 5000 years old. We have just did the correction,” said Mathur.
 
 The commerce department said changes in the dissertation were part of its efforts to “Indianise” higher education step by step. Mathur argued that while working on the dissertation students will study these scriptures in depth and would able to learn the Indian value system along with management lessons. These topics have already introduced for the present session. 
 
 The university has also introduced a new paper on paper presentation for semester 2nd students. For paper presentations the half of the topics are similar to those of dissertation while the new additions under the category of management gurus and business leaders. “We have listed business leaders from Rajasthan along with prominent Indian business leaders while ignoring leaders from the west purposefully. Students would able to correlate with the local leaders more somebody from outside our culture,” said Mathur.
 
