NEW DELHI: The Centre plans to go ahead with the scheduled presentation of the   on February 1 on the ground that, as early as September last year, it had publicly flagged its intention to advance the unveiling of the annual financial statement by a month.

 Sources said that in its response to the  , the government is expected to cite the model code of conduct as well as the legislative requirement to present the   before  .
 
 They said the model of conduct restricted the government from making any announcements related to poll-bound states. As a result, the Centre woukd stay away from making any announcement specific to Punjab, UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur in the Budget. It was announced on Saturday that the Budget session of Parliament would start from January 31 and end on April 12.
 
 The sources pointed out that in the budget circular issued on September 21, the finance ministry’s budget division had referred to the “advancement of budget presentation by about a month”.
 
 They said that even parliamentary committees had been informed about the revised calendar way in advance. “It is a not a sudden decision. The Cabinet approval has been taken and the circular sent out,” said an official.
 
 In fact, in November, the finance ministry had received the Union Cabinet’s nod to advance the presentation of the Budget to early February to ensure that the legislative process of approving it was completed before April. The sources said a detailed reply would be sent to the   soon pointing out these factors.
 
 Several opposition parties, including Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK and JD (U), have met EC officials to demand that the Budget be presented after the elections conclude. The polls kick off on February 4, with March 11 decided as the vote-counting day. The opposition says that that the Budget can be presented after March 8, the date of the final phase of polling, and approved by March 31.
 
 The finance ministry has already kicked off pre-Budget consultations. The Centre plans to complete the exercise before the financial year ends on March 31 for faster policy transmission and to enable ministries to spend funds from the start of the year, instead of waiting until May for money to flow in. It will also help in better tax planning for the government, companies and individuals.
 
 The Election Commission has asked cabinet secretary   to spell out the government’s stand on the opposition parties’ demand that the presentation of Union Budget 2017-18 be delayed until after the final phase of polls. The EC missive to Sinha seeks the government’s reply latest by January 10, according to sources in EC.
 
 A senior EC official told TOI that this was the normal course of action the poll body takes on any petition challenging a government decision or move on the ground that it violates or may violate the model code of conduct.
 
 The opposition has argued that the announcement of any populist sops in the Budget may disturb the level-playing field in the five poll-bound states.
 
