Three   in less than 24 hours has brought the focus back on  , one of the busiest roads in the city. The stretch has gone through an   — construction of a flyover, multiple footbridges and subways and road width expansion — but nothing much has been done to make the speed corridor safer for motorists. TOI takes a drive down the road to find out the problem points that may be leading to the accidents and suggests some solutions after consulting traffic policemen and road transport experts.

 
 
 Post road expansion, the Ultadanga-bound flank has a 20-feet wide bus bay, wide enough for two buses to ply parallel with ease. But with most drivers of the errant fleet, the moment one sees another bus of common route ignoring the bus bay and speeding along the main carriageway, they take swift turns from the multiple cut outs separating the bus bay from the main road. It often ends up in accidents.
 
 Solution | Block the cutouts permanently to stop buses from leaving the bay at will. Force every bus to take the bay and also, ensure that smaller vehicles — rickshaws and autos — do not encroach upon the space allotted only for buses.
 
 
 People take subways to cross roads. But at Bangur, people taking the subway from the airport-bound flank end up on the middle of the road on the other flank. The subway gate stands on a raised platform between the main carriageway and bus bay. “The subway does not meet the purpose. In any case, we have to dodge the traffic to cross the road,” said  , a local.
 
 Solution | Attempts need to be taken to extend the existing subways to the end of the road and ensure future subways, like the one coming up at Teghoria, runs till the extreme end of the road.
 
 
 
 Buses all along VIP Road force passengers to board and get off on the middle of the road. Never do the drivers halt buses at the designated bus stops and always tend to be on the move while a passenger is getting on or off the vehicle.
 
 Solution | Increase policing on the road and slap stringent fines every time a bus forces a passenger to board or alight from the middle of the road risking his/her life.
 
 
 
 Cycle-rickshaws are banned on VIP Road but they ply on the stretch throughout the day. Movement of cycles and vans are also in abundance. Even at places where the median dividers are fenced off and footbridges have been built, people jump over or squeeze through small gaps with cycles and simply drive against traffic, hamper the flow of vehicles.
 
 Solution | More policing and penalizing those travelling against traffic. Further, with the expanded carriageway, attempts should be made to make a separate bay for cycle and rickshaws.
 
 
 
 They have come up at a number of places along VIP Road, encroaching upon the expanded stretch and bus bays. At Bangur, autos of the   route have already made a stand of their own beside the subway. At Kaikhali, the autos have taken over a newly expanded space to make another illegal auto stand. “The autos on this route have a habit of splitting routes. Now with the new illegal stands, they may make these split routes legal,” said a commuter.
 
 Solution | Crack down on illegal auto stands and ensure they are removed before others come and encroach further road space and it becomes impossible to remove them.
 
