NEW DELHI: Following the hubbub in Aam Aadmi Party after a dismal show in the municipal elections, labour minister Gopal Rai was made the party’s Delhi convener last week in place of Dilip Pandey, who had stepped down. Now a growing demand for a stronger organisational framework is evident, and the role of the convener will need more etching out, especially after the controversy raked up by   that senior leader Kumar Vishwas was working to take over the post from chief minister  .

 On Monday, as the controversy over Khan’s remarks against Vishwas swirled, there were reports that Kejriwal was angry enough to direct party MLAs not to speaking to the media on party affairs. Before the meeting of the high-powered public affairs committee in the evening, Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia went into a huddle, which was followed by another meeting among Sisodia, senior   leader Sanjay Singh and Vishwas.
 
 After the PAC meeting, which Vishwas did not attend, Sisodia expressed displeasure at the open airing of views by party members and asked them not to go public with their views.
 
 While senior party functionaries and MLAs rubbished the idea of a new national convener, reports last week that a section of the MLAs was seeking a new convener and wanted Kejriwal to focus more on running Delhi had triggered suspense. Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti and other MLAs were learnt to have expressed their opinion that while Kejriwal and Sisodia should give their undivided attention to the Delhi government and entrust the job of party expansion to Vishwas.
 
 Though senior party leaders denied there was such a proposal, MLAs who did not want to be named said on Monday that it was not so much about Vishwas as about seeking a stronger organisation with a national convener who was focused on party building. “We began by blaming EVMs, but actually many MLAs feel we need to look at our weaknesses on the ground and other factors that may have contributed to the debacle,” said an AAP MLA. “It is in this backdrop that it is being felt that the focus should be on Delhi where we started from. This is what needs to be decided, and for that the role of the national convener needs to be discussed.” He added that there was no doubt Kejriwal was the leader of the party, but the unending speculations of the past few days signified questions about the organisation’s strengthening.
 
 After the municipal polls, Vishwas had gone to the media to reject his party’s tactic of blaming EVMs for electoral setbacks and called for a deeper introspection. Alleging decisions were taken behind closed doors, he demanded more robust inner-party democracy. Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan had countered Vishwas by accusing him of working for BJP.
 
 Meanwhile, to stop rumour-mongering about the national convener, AAP MLA from Burari Sanjeev Jha came out on twitter later in the day to assert that “Arvind Kejriwal is our only leader”.
 
 
