NAGPUR: Lokayukta   has ordered Nagpur divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar to conduct an inquiry against energy minister   over several complaints. The report is to be submitted to the Lokayukta so that he can decide whether inquiry should be continued.

 The minister may not suffer much harm as most of the irregularities were committed more than three years ago and hence have become time-barred according to the Lokayukta. In the order, Tahaliyani has stated that while the commissioner should not conduct an inquiry on time-barred complaints under direction of the Lokayukta, he was free do so on his own. 
 
 As the complainant Shridhar Salve had lodged complaint before the Lokayukta on September 9, 2016, as per the Tahaliyani’s order only irregularities committed after September 9, 2013, should be probed under his orders.
 
 The complainant Shridhar Salve had alleged that several members of Bawankule family had obtained jobs in the erstwhile   and the its three successor power companies under project affected person (PAP) quota. As per rules only person of a   family can get a government job if the family’s land has been acquired for a public project. However, in this case at least five members got government jobs. Salve had attached several documents with the complaint to support his contentions.
 
 The order states that Narayan Bawankule, brother of the minister, was working as a lineman in MSEDCL. So was Narayan’s wife Kavita, who is a clerk in the discom. Some more instances have been cited by the complainant.
 
 The order further states that the complainant had lodged a complaint with the divisional commissioner but it was not being heard under politcal pressure. ‘Since there are more than one issue involved in the complaint, a separate enquiry officer will have to look into them within a time bound programme. It will be just and proper if the divisional commissioner is directed to appoint some responsible officer to look into allegations of the complainant and he is further asked to submit a report to the authority so that it can decide whether to continue the enquiry,’ the order says.
 
 Earlier, an   leader Kishor Chaudhari had levelled similar allegations of wrongdoing against Bawankule, which were vehemently denied by the minister during a press conference.
 
