KOLKATA: When BJP national president   had visited her home at the   slum on April 26,   had her fingers crossed that the national leader, who had a close view of the poor living conditions of the slum, would act to make things better for them. Five months down the line, Shah is back in the city , but nothing has changed at Chetla Lock Gate. In fact, things have got worse. With battered roads, zero sanitation and large-scale waterlogging in the absence of proper drainage, the slum dwellers are barely surviving.

 The slum had turned famous overnight and caught the attention of the ruling party in the state after Shah's visit. The BJP heavyweight had given a patient hearing to the slum dwellers and asked functionaries to keep a close vigil on the slum and get in touch with the locals in times of need.
 
 But the residents now are a disappointed lot. “We were hopeful of getting basic minimum services from the state government or the KMC after Shah's visit. We had conveyed our concerns about absence of toilets, a basic amenity -leave aside the problems of cratered roads or waterlogging. We had heard about the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, a central scheme which sets up toilets in the urban slum areas. Accordingly , we had asked local BJP leaders to take up the issue. However, no steps have been taken yet,“ Ratna Das, a slum dweller, complained. Das now feels the slum dwellers should approach the   leadership to avoid `getting sandwiched' between the ruling parties in the state and at the Centre. Kalpana Mondal, who had welcomed Shah to her home, is now disillusioned. “I was thrilled to welcome Amitji at my home. But now I feel we were merely hosting a VVIP and nothing more,“ she said.
 
 It is not nobody benefited from Shah's visit. Khokan Ghosh was just a local BJP worker five months ago when he was given the charge of hosting the party president in the slum. Ghosh has been awarded by the state BJP leadership with the post of the south Kolkata district BJP president.
 
 “I have been trying my best for the uplift of the slum. But the ruling party has stopped providing essential services to the area because of its association with Amitji,“ Ghosh complained.
 
 However, local Trinamool councillor (Ward 82)   ruled out any step-motherly attitude toward the slum because of the Shah connection. “We have been giving all services to the slum like any other areas. If we need to improve on the civic services, we will do so,“ Biswas said.
 
