Bhopal: The state accounts for 40% of global population of long-billed vulture, claims a study conducted by a Bengaluru-based organisation, Saving Asian Vulture from Extinction (SAVE). However, the exact number of highly endangered bird is not known. Sources, however, put them to a few thousands.

 Chris Bowden, globally threatened species officer and programme manager of SAVE, handed over the report to the state forest department in third week of September. The report is not yet released. 
 
 While handing over the report to the state forest department, he said, Madhya Pradesh is the most important state (globally) for the long-billed vulture in particular.
 
 Long-billed vulture is one of the four vulture species found in Madhya Pradesh. All the four species are threatened.
 
 Ornithologists believed loss of habitat and veterinary use of diclofenac, a non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug is the main threat to the vultures in India.
 
 The population of vultures in the country has reduced from an estimated 40 million in 1990 to few thousand, experts said, adding this has led to an environmental crisis as scavengers of nature start vanishing .
 
 “Vulture lose may allow other scavengers to flourish. Proliferation of such scavengers could lead to increase in bacteria and viruses from carcasses into cities,” experts involved in vulture breeding said.
 
 During a state-wide first-ever vulture estimation launched in November 2015, Bundelklhad region in the state was identified as the largest habitat of the scavenger birds. They are located in Orchha (Tikamgarh), Rahatgarh (Sagar), Buxwah (Chhatarpur), Damoh and Panna National Park.
 
 The other places include Ran Nagar (Satna), Keoti water fall in Rewa, Gandhi Sagar in Mandsaur and Bhanpur in Bhopal.
 
 Of the nine species of vultures found in India, four are found in the state that include long-billed vulture, white-backed vulture, Egyptian vulture and Red headed or king vulture.
 
 The SAVE also plans to release some long-billed vultures in Madhya Pradesh from Jatayu conservation breeding centre Pinjore in Haryana to further boost the vulture conservation. The centre at is run by the Haryana forest department and Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) with the help of Royal Society for Protection of Birds, a UK-based charity.
 
 The prospect of release of birds in MP in coming two years will bring with it welcome attention to safety of the environment and birds. It brings the ex-situ and in-situ work together in a very meaningful way, the SAVE representative told the MP forest department.
 
 Bowden also recommended satellite tracking of these birds saying, this will be a crucial part of the process to understand fate of birds and learn where they establish themselves
 
 Besides long-billed vulture, large number of Egyptian vultures are also found in Panna National Park. But this habitat is all set to be drowned in the controversial Ken-Betwa (KB) link project. In the last estimation about 14,000 vultures were found in Panna.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forest wildlife was, however, not available for comments for more details of the report. 
 
 
