HUBBALLI: With mercury level soaring, many wild animals are straying out of forest areas, and into human habitat in search of  .

 Many water bodies in forest areas of Dharwad have dried up. To prevent the animals from going to other places in search of water, about 30 artificial waterholes have been created in forest areas. 
 
 Dharwad forest zone comprises four sections of the woods — Bandur, Kalakeri, Aravatagi, and Mandihal, covering 14,000 hectares of forest. There are many natural water bodies like ponds and lakes inside those areas. But with all of them have being dried up, several animals are straying into nearby villages.
 
 Speaking to STOI, Vijaykumar Kalappannavar, range forest officer, Dharwad, said that many villagers on the fringes of the four sections of Dharwad forest have complained to them about animals straying into their habitat in search of water. The development has created panic among the villagers.
 
 “During a visit to all water sources in the forest, we came to know that almost all of them have completely dried up. So we decided to create artificial ponds (waterholes) in all the sections to enable animals to get water in their habitat,” he said, adding: “Thirty artificial water ponds, each measuring 10 cubic metres, have been created there. Tarpaulin is used to store water which is supplied through water  .”
 
 Giving the break-up of ponds, the RFO said 15-20 are created in Banadur section, 10 in Kalkeri, 7 in Aravatagi, and 3 in Nigadi. “We are buying water at Rs 500 to 600 per tanker load. “These sections have many bears, spotted deer, sambar and leopards. We have selected places for ponds going by the pugmarks of leopards and other animals. However, this is a temporary arrangement to quench their thirst, and the ponds will attend to their hydration till the onset of monsoon,” he said.
 
 The authorities are also utilizing water which is being wasted due to leakage or damage to pipeline in nearby villages. Water saved thus is stored in a small trench and transferred to the ponds. “Villagers are also supporting us in this,” the officer said.
 
