RANCHI: Workers from at least three districts across the state sent Rupee 1 to Chief minister Raghubar Das and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest the minuscule rise in daily wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ). 

 On the occasion of International Labours’ day on Monday, 300 MGNREGA workers from 15 villages in Manika block collectively sent Rupee 1 through a postal order to the CM and PM to protest the state’s revision of daily wage under MGNREGA. These workers from Manika were joined by their counterparts in Dumka and West Singbhum.
 
 According to the memorandum sent to the CM and PM , the move was initiated after the state revised the minimum daily MGNREGA wage by Rupee 1 in comparison to last year. The daily minimum wage was Rs 167 in 2016. 
 
 “Modi ji, one rupee will not bring Acche Din,” the placards, held by MGNREGA workers, read, as they gathered at   ground on Monday to protest the pay revision.
 
 Economist Jean Dreze, who was present in Manika on Monday, termed the revision as unjust. “The MGNREGA Act mandates that the daily minimum wage must be more than the minimum daily agricultural wage in the state. Each MLA of the state gets a monthly salary of Rs 1 lakh. There is a continuous rise in their salaries besides being given luxurious cars and bungalows. On the other hand, these hard working labourers are given a Re 1 hike. Why this disparity?” Dreze questioned in his letter to Das. 
 
 The minimum daily agricultural wage in the state is Rs 224 a day. “It is because of the low wages that workers are not interested in working under the scheme,” he added.
 
 Balram, consultant to the state government on the  , called the pay revision a ‘mockery’. “Last year, the state government had revised the daily wage by Rs 5. A similar complaint was lodged to the CMO (chief minister’s office) but clearly nothing had happened. It is not clear as to why the state government is ignorant about increasing the MGNREGA wages,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, state MGNREGA commissioner Siddharth Tripathi refused to comment on the issue.
 
 Last year, hundreds of MNREGA workers from Manika sent a letter and Rs 5 to the Prime Minister after the Centre revised the pay scale and   received a hike of Rs 5. The letter read, “We feel that you need the extra five rupees more than we do, since your government has so many expenses”.
 
 
