NEW  : Three incidents of   rage were reported from different parts of the city in the last 24   during which a security officer of a five-star hotel and an LLB student were   and beaten up. Miscreants also robbed the student near Civil Lines. In the third incident, a man and his family members were beaten up by a group of youths over parking of a motorbike outside their house.

 Police said that in the first incident, the LLB student Alankar Tiwari was on his way towards Timarpur in his car. In his complaint, Tiwari told the police that a motorcycle rider drove ahead of him while he was on the Ring Road. In order to avoid hitting the biker, Tiwari overtook the two-wheeler and drove ahead of him, when the biker started honking from behind.
 
 When he reached the government flats near Timarpur, the biker parked the motorbike ahead of his car and threatened him for overtaking the motorbike. When Tiwari protested, the youth took money from his wallet kept on the seat and left. He threatened him with dire consequences Tiwari dared to stop him.
 
 The second incident was reported near Delhi Gate, when the security officer Maan Singh, who works with a five star hotel and his friend Saurabh were driving back from Jama Masjid after dinner on Wednesday night. Singh said that when they he stopped near the Delhi Gate signal, an i-20 car overtook them and the youths in the car started accusing him of driving dangerously.
 
 When Singh protested, the youths thrashed him, during which he had suffered injuries on his palm. When Singh tried to call the police, the youths fled towards the New Delhi railway station.
 
 The third incident was reported from the block number 4 in Trilokpuri, when a tailoring shopowner Ramesh Chand had parked his motorbike outside his neighbour’s house. An argument broke out and police said that Chand was attacked with rods and metal knuckles during this. When his wife and brother tried to intervene, they too were thrashed. Police have registered a case of attempt to murder.
 
 
