JODHPUR: While the pressure from the Opposition and the   mounts for justice to  , who was allegedly set ablaze by the   and 9 other persons including the Patwari on last Saturday, the new revelation in the matter has brought forth some  .

 According to the information from the Bilara tehsil office, there were orders to widen the road from tehsil office given to the sarpanch and patwari. They were also directed to remove the encroachments and widen the road adjacent to the agricultural field belonging to Lalita’s family.
 
 The revelation has brought the claim of the police in conflict, which had claimed that complainant and brother of the victim, himself was operating the JCB on the road in question in order to avoid any major damage to the fence of their field.
 
 Similarly, the SP (Rural) Harendra Kumar had also stated that the team of the village administration had visited the spot for measurement on March 17 and no objection was raised by any from the family then.
 
 But the question, now emerged, brings the police statements in conflict with this disclosure, who have still been struggling to extract the truth that if Lalita was set ablaze or she immolated herself to protest against the work.
 
 Meanwhile, further affirming this disclosure, the forest department and the PWD also submitted its report to the police mentioning that a total of 11 trees on the road touching the farm of Lalita had been cut without permission and water tanks as well as pipe lines were found damaged caused by the work, believed to be illegal now, by the sarpanch and patwari.
 
 On the other hand, the Brahmin community is unifying to seek justice for the victim, who belonged to the Brahmin community. They are demanding a judicial probe now accusing the police to hush up the case and saving the accused.
 
 Former chief minister Ashok Gehlot also visited the family on Friday and consoled them accusing the present government of absolute apathy and spurt in the crime, especially against the women.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have not yet been successful to get to the accused of the case, who have still been absconding and mustering support for them through other sarpanchs, who submitted memorandum to the district administration in favour of the accused sarpanch Ranveer Singh Champawat.
 
