VADODARA/ ANAND: A woman employee of Institute of Rural Management, Anand ( ) lodged a police complaint on Tuesday night accusing the premier institute’s senior official of  .

 The women police station at Anand registered an offence against the official and subsequently transferred the investigations to the Anand town police station.
 
 Earlier, this month TOI had reported that the employee had submitted a complaint of sexual harassment against him to the institute’s sexual harassment committee. On Tuesday evening, her statement was recorded in presence of two deputy superintendents of police. 
 
 The woman stated she was trying to ignore his sexual innuendoes but “matters had come to a head.” The complaint states around five instances where she felt that his remarks and behaviour very offensive and sexual in nature. 
 
 She stated that the official had made untoward comments with heavy sexual connotations. In November 2016, when she had knocked on a professor’s door, he was already sitting there and asked her to come in. “There was a long conversation between the three of us and he was talking about counselling when suddenly out of the blue he said, sans context, “I like sex!” as he smacked his lips. I tried to laugh it off thinking, hoping, that it was a one-off thing,” her complaint states. 
 
  Another time, when she was walking down to tea lounge, the official, who was sitting with an associate professor, asked her to get tea and sit with them.
 
 “We got talking about books when he took the conversation around to porn writer   saying specifically that he had learned about sex reading the author's novels. Both the associate professor and I felt distinctly embarrassed. I also felt very dirty at the time,” the complainant had stated. 
 
 On March 2, this year, the official, while addressing a gathering of a management development program (MDP) allegedly said, “a rape victim has no option but to lie back and enjoy the rape.” 
 
 When one of the MDP gasped and said, “Sorry!” he adjusted the mike and loudly repeated his words, the complainant has stated. 
 
 On February 27, during her meeting with him, the official suddenly asked her about her bindi. He also added that he found her face very ‘cartoonable’ because of her bindi and earrings. 
 
 “But what I found to be even more offensive was the non-verbal sexual message he conveyed, sitting down reclining over his chair,” she stated, adding he had started sending her harassing mails ever since she put up her experience on a social media site in a very mild way.
 
