Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars' Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the 'T Score'. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars' ranking for the month of October 2016.

 SRK and   top the Galgotias University presents Times Celebex powered by Zoom list for January 2017
  grabbed headlines for his Republic Day-release 'Raees', in which he played the central character.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Nawazuddin Siddiqui - Leaps from 43rd to 15th rank - He was in the news for playing a cop in 'Raees'
 Sushant Singh Rajput - Leaps from 33rd to 26th rank - He made news for completing 'Raabta' and prepping for his next.
  - Leaps from 34th to 27th rank - He was in the headlines for his biography’s frank content.
 Arshad Warsi - Leaped from the 40th rank to the 34th rank - Arshad Warsi made news for his upcoming films
 
 
 
 Ronit Roy was loved as the the villain in 'Kaabil' 
 Aditya Roy Kapur made news for his performance in 'OK Jaanu' 
 
  
  
 Deepika Padukone remained in the news for hosting Vin Diesel in India, her Hollywood debut, 'xXx: Return of Xander Cage' and her brand deals.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Yami Gautam - Leaps from the 29th rank to the 2nd rank - She made news for her confident act in 'Kaabil'
 Ileana D’cruz - Leaps from the 40th rank to the 29th rank - She made news for her next, 'Baadshaho'
 Sonali Bendre - Leaps from the 50th rank to the 41st rank- She made news for her endorsement deals
 Raveena Tandon - Leaped from the 36th rank to the 27th rank - Raveena Tandon was in the news for her public appearances
 
  
  
 
 
  made news for returing to the cinema down South with Dhanush
 Kalki Koechlin made news for her rumoured affair with Jim Sarabh and her upcoming projects
 
 
 
 
  Buzz around the release of 'Kaabil'. 
 
 He made news for the box office collections of 'Dangal'.
 
 
 He made headlines for the hearings and verdict in his two impending court cases. 
 
 
  He grabbed headlines for the promotions of 'Jolly LLB 2' and his endorsement deals.
  
  He was in the news for his endorsements and for the shooting of 'Sarkar 3'. 
 
 
  He made news for the shoot of his historical drama whose set was vandalised in Rajasthan. 
 
 He made headlines for his production company’s Marathi titles.
 
 
 He made news for his TV show stints, his productions and his chat show’s guest combinations.
 
 
  He made news for his upcoming films and his production 'Raees'.
 
 
  She made news for her performance as a blind girl opposite   in 'Kaabil'.
 
  She was in the headlines for her ‘friendship’ with Farhan Akhtar and her romantic outing, 'OK Jaanu'.
 
 
 She grabbed headlines for the ratings of her show 'Quantico Season 2'.
 
 She made headlines for winning awards for her performance in 'Neerja'.
 
 
  She made news for losing weight the healthy way and her endorsement deals.
 
 
  She made news for news around her New Year celebrations and her upcoming film, 'Reloaded'.
 
  She grabbed headlines for starting prep for her upcoming film, 'Golmaal Again', with Ajay Devgn and 'Meri Pyaari Bindu'. 
 
 
  She made news for winning numerous awards for her performances in 'Udta Punjab' and 'Dear Zindagi'.
 
  She made news for her sizzling dance number in Shah Rukh Khan’s 'Raees'.
 
  
  
 
 
