THANE:A nine-year-old girl's testimony who witnessed a brutal   in the neighbouring room nailed the two accused in the court, who were sentenced to life imprisonment by the district   here. The sessions judge Vilas V Bambarde convicted--Kamlibai Waghe, 46 and Faruk Khan--and also fined them with the sum of Rs 500 each. But one other accused Vijay Pawar was acquitted by giving him benefit of doubt.

 The prosecutor told the court that Vijay Pawar was the friend of deceased Shivaji Jadhav and Waghe was the keep of Pawar. Pawar has been suspecting of extra marital affair of his wife with Shivaji Jadhav. On the fateful day October 02,2010 the victim had dinner with one of his friend at about 8.30 p.m. he left him at the room of Waghe in the   area of Bhiwandi. Later, there was tiff between Waghe and Jadhav after which she called her friend Lambu Bhaiyya and Khan.
 
 The court was told that Waghe and Khan caught hold of the victim Shivaji while Dara Paswan aka Lambu Bhayya killed shivaji in a brutal manner with sickle. Subsequently, the body was kept at the rear of the house in the night. The killing was at the instance of Vijay Pawar, the court was told. The prosecution also pointed out that the tiff was due to the deceased Shivaji Jadhav demanding to have sex with Waghe but she refused and following an altercation, Jadhav started abusing and called her as 'keep' of Pawar. Hence, Waghe got irked and got her friend Lambu Bhaiyya and Faruk and eliminated him, the prosecution said.
 
 The court was told that there was a tin partition between the house of Kamlibai and one nine-year-old daughter of the neigbour saw the entire killing from the gap of the tin sheets, the court was told. In her deposition, the girl narrated the entire horrifying incident, she said that one Lambu Bhaiyya and Jadhav had a quarrel after which he flung chilly powder on the eyes of victim and beat him up black and blue. Then, Waghe and Khan caught hold of hapless jadhav and Lambubhaiyya put rope around the neck and Khan throttled Jadhav. Later, Kamlibai took out sickle and cut his throat. 
 
 The court was also told that the next morning the accused assembled once again and cut into pieces the body of the victim and detached his head and left leg from the body, the girl narrated to the court in her testimony. The girl even heard that as said by Pawar, the work of eliminating Jadhav has been done. The accused packed the body in one gunny bag, they took those parts of body and threw behind the house of one Fatte Mohammad Shah at Dongarpada. The body was found lying packed in the gunny bag and the head was found at a distance of 200 ft and the left leg in the bushes in the vicinity.
 
 As many as 11 witnessess testified in the court but the lone eye witness turned the tables against the accused. In the judgment, the judge noted, “ It is very important to note that Nine year old's testimony after careful scrutiny appears to be reliable. The evidence on record shows that Lambubhaiyya (absconding accused), Faruk and Kamli had killed Shivaji Jadhav and caused disappearance of evidence against them.” The judge further pointed out that there is no serious omission or contradiction in the evidence of the minor girl. It has come in the evidence that she has seen accused throttling deceased Shivaji Jadhav and his body parts were mutilated which shows the brutality in the murder. Banbarde also mentioned “Deceased wanted to have sex with Kamlibai and she had illicit relations with Pawar. Hence, to get rid off Jadhav, Kamlibai eliminated him with help of Lambubhaiyya and Faruk."
 
