AURANGABAD: Assembly speaker   on Saturday asked officers of power distribution, transmission and generation companies to strengthen power supply system in drought-affected villages in the region. 

 Speaking at the inaugural function of the 40th state-level conference of the officers here, he stressed on the need to provide uninterrupted power in the affected areas so that farmers could reap the benefits of good monsoon. 
 
 “Following satisfactory spell of monsoon, many affected farmers have the opportunity to increase agriculture yield. To make it a reality, they should not face power frequent power failures. The companies engaged in power distribution should install transformers wherever required,” said Bagde.
 
 Super class I, class I and II officers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL),   (Mahagenco) and the holding company are participate in the two-day seminar.
 
 Highlighting the demands of the officers,  , general secretary of the   Abhikari Sanghatna, said that employees and officers in the power companies are working under heavy stress.
 
 “Every month, the employees and officers are expected to recover power charges to the tune of Rs 5,200 crore, but despite all out efforts, they are able to recover less than Rs 4,100 crore,” he said. 
 
 Shinde said that the management should clarify the roles and responsibilities of technical and non-technical officers. “We have been demanding this since 2008, but there is no clarity on the matter as yet.” 
 
 In addition to this, the officers demanded uniform salary structure in all the four companies. Currently, there is disparity in the salary structure of officers working in all the four state- owned power companies.
 
 They also demanded voluntary retirement scheme for them similar to that available for employees and technicians. 
 
 “The companies have not recruited manpower in the last decade. We have been demanding fresh recruitment across all the companies so that uninterrupted power could be supplied. It will also help the companies prevent power theft and consolidate the financial condition,” said Shinde.
 
