LUCKNOW: Doctors at   would team up with the   and police to create awareness about the reasons behind  . The announcement was made at an event organised by the university's neuro-surgery department on Wednesday on the occasion on ' '. 

 With over 60 cases of head injuries being reported daily in the city, doctors would be working with the transport department and police to curb the rising numbers. 
 
 "We plan to organise regular programmes in schools and public places every month and upload education videos on the issue, as is done in schools abroad," said Prof BK Ojha, head of KGMU's neuro-surgery department. 
 
 "In many cases, people who bring a victim to the hospital end up aggravating the injuries because of their limited knowledge about transporting an injured person. We are planning to come up with a pre-hospital training workshop and an ambulance equipped with first aid for head and spinal injury patients," said KGMU's head of traumatology dpeartment, Dr Sandeep Tiwari.
 
  Lucknow: Doctors at King George's Medical University decided to team up with the transport and police administration to create more awareness about the reasons head injuries, on the occasion of 'Head Injury Awareness Day'. 
 
 With over 60 cases of head injuries being reported daily in the city, doctors will develop roadmap together with the transport department annd police authorities in an attempt to curb the rising numbers of head injury affecting the young population majorly.
 
 The announcement was made at an event organised by the university's neuro-surgery department. Doctors demanded that the government should crack down of people driving pillions and two-wheelers without wearing helmets. 
 
 "The strategy will work if KGMU is made an administrating centre for spreading the word. We plan to organise regular programs in schools and public places every month and upload education videos on the issue, as is done in schools abroad," said Prof BK Ojha, head of KGMU's neuro-surgery department. 
 
 "In many cases, people who bring the patient to the hospital end up aggravating the injuries because of their limited knowledge about transporting an injured person. We are planning to come up with a pre-hospital training workshop so that an ambulance is equipped with professional first aid for head and spinal injury patients," said head of KGMU's traumatology dpeartment, Dr Sandeep Tiwari.
 
 
