VADODARA: Testing of state-of-the-art high resolution cameras for surveillance in the city was conducted at the   on Tuesday by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the city police. The civic body is installing the cameras as a part of the city command and control will be spending around Rs 90 crore on the project as a part of the   mission.

 VMC officials said that 250 new cameras will have night vision capabilities and will be able to zoom in and zoom out feeds. Around 40 of these cameras will also have automatic number plate recognition ability so that they can focus on the number plate of an erring vehicle and relay the image to the control room.
 
 As a pilot project, which is a part of analysing their technical bids, vendors were asked to install cameras on four different poles on the   and relay their feeds to four different control rooms in the Police Bhavan.
 
 The top brass of the city police and the VMC examined these feeds through the day on Tuesday. “The vendor who passes in the pilot studies as well as the other technical evaluation will be considered for the price bids,” said an official. The poles on which the CCTVs will be installed will also have sensors for monitoring environment and weather.
 
 The VMC already gives feeds of its 250 CCTV cameras installed under the ‘Vadodara Eye’ project earlier to the city police. Police officials as well as VMC officials keep a track of these feeds at the Police Bhavan.
 
 In the long run, the feeds of all CCTV cameras will be relayed to the Integrated Command and   coming up at  . Officials of the city police, VMC and fire brigade will be using the facility. Besides keeping surveillance on the city, the facility will be the nerve centre in case of emergencies.
 
 “The technology is not limited to just keeping an eye on the roads through CCTVs. It’s a futuristic technology wherein we can monitor law and order issues by making a citizen centric control and command centre. 
 
 It will help us a lot in improving the policing and bring a dramatic change in our operations,” said Manoj Sashidhar, police commissioner.
 
 
