MUMBAI: The   has lifted a stay on felling of trees at various places along the 33.5km Colaba-Bandra-Seepz   III corridor. The Bombay   had on May 5 vacated its order, which restrained Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) Ltd from   trees for the project. But it had allowed the stay to continue for 10 days to enable the petitioners to approach the SC.

 An MMRCL spokesperson said, “The SC heard a special leave petition filed by Nina Verma, challenging the Bombay HC order. The SC confirmed the HC order and refused relief on the stay vacated by the HC.”
 
 Citizen activist Zoru Banthena said, “The SC directed citizens to go before the Bombay HC-appointed committee to oversee replantation and transplantation of trees for construction of the Metro III project. The stay on the cutting of trees continues.”
 
 MMRCL said, “We will begin work at the sites where trees were affected after getting a copy of the SC order.”
 
 In its May 5 order, the HC had said, “We appoint the member secretary of the Maharashtra legal services authority and deputy registrar to oversee compliance in regard to replantation, transplantation of trees...” The order said the compliance must be reported by officers from time-to-time and preferably every month to a committee of two HC judges, nominated by the chief justice.
 
 The HC had first given a stay on February 9 after residents filed a petition opposing cutting of over 5,000 trees. MMRCL claimed that only 2,801 were affected, of which 1,074 were to be cut. Sources said MMRCL was suffering a notional financial loss of Rs 4 crore each day as work had come came to a standstill at 25 stations, where tree were to be touched for the project.
 
 While vacating the stay, High court had directed MMRCL to file an undertaking including “to ensure trees equivalent to the number of trees affected (both cut and trees removed for transplant) will be planted in the same area on completion of the station construction work.“ Also, “for a period of three years thereafter, the transplanted trees will be looked after, safeguarded and maintained.“
 
 The court had also noted that it is prima facie satisfied that MMRCL took essential steps to approach competent authorities under the CRZ notification and to obtain appropriate clearances subject to various conditions.
 
