KANGRA: In a run-up to the assembly polls in Himachal Pradesh, the BJP’s national president Amit Shah on Friday launched an animated charge sheet, a jingle against the current Congress regime and a donation portal at the Yuva Hunkar Rally that targetted a gathering of one lakh young people from across the state. The animated charge sheet launched at the rally contained comic characters that are raising issues of corruption and crime in the state under the Congress government.

 Addressing the rally, Amit Shah targeted chief minister Virbhadra Singh and said that he is not resigning and sticking to the CM’s chair holding badges of corruption on his chest. 
 
 “The reputation of the state has been severely damaged due to corruption by the Congress government,” he said.
 
 “The BJP gave two CMs — PK Dhumal and Shanta Kumar – to the state. Shanta was called ‘Paani wala mukhyamantri’ (CM who provided water) and Dhumal was ‘Sadak wala mukhyamantri’ (CM who built roads). But Virbhadra has started unprecedented trend of not resigning even after allegations of corruptions,” said Shah and added that Singh is called ‘Bhrashtachar wala mukhyamantri’ (chief minister known for corruption) and wears this as badge of honor,” Shah said.
 
 Promoting ‘Hisab Mange Himachal’ campaign, Shah asked the gathering to give a missed call on a number to join the campaign, which he pronounced from stage.
 
 He also said that the Modi government gave 70,000 crore to the state. “Ask Virbhadra, where has the money gone," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, other leaders who were putting-up the show at the rally were: union ministers JP   and Thawarchand Gehlot, four MPs of state, in-charge for party’s affair for state and health minister of   and other senior leaders of the state.
 
 “Under the leadership of Shah, the picture of the politics has changed in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and other states. Now it is the turn of Himahcal,” said Nadda, who is the Union minister for health.
 
 The leaders also talked about every wrong that happened under the congress government and criticized the CM for his baseless statements on crime happening in the state. 
 
 Shah returned to Delhi with other BJP leaders after addressing the rally.
 
