GURGAON: Many areas of  ,  ,  ,   — faced   on Thursday.

 There has been no supply in DLF 4 for two days, a result of pipeline leakage. Sushant Lok 1 has been in the grips of a crisis for three days, due to non-payment of electricity bills, which led to disconnection of power supply to their water boosting pumps. In comparison, the scarcity in Ardee City in Sector 52, Suncity in Sector 54 and Sushant Lok 2 and 3 has been on and off, due to shortage of supply by Huda. On Thursday, they were all hit.
 
 Pavitri Garg, mother of two girls in DLF 4, has depended on private tankers for two days. “I have school-going kids and elderly parents-in-law. We’ve been buying water from tankers. What’s the use of buying property in ‘upscale’ DLF, if infrastructure and services are so abysmal?” she asked.
 
 Krishna Lal Singh, who moved from RK Puram to Gurgaon in 2007, said, “This city is no longer liveable. Our relatives in Delhi get regular supply, while we’re facing acute shortage despite paying high maintenance fees. I wish I hadn’t left Delhi.” 
 
 VMK Singh, general secretary of Suncity RWA, alleged, “The township is about to get transferred from developer to MCG, about which the former is not happy. We suspect the developer disconnects power to the pumps. Also, the society’s storage capacity is not enough to meet peak summer demand.”
 
 Disconnection of power to boosting pumps is also a problem in Sushant Lok 1. “There’s no power in 90% of the boosting pumps. The society has over Rs 88 lakh in unpaid dues. Residents who haven’t paid are making those who have suffer,” said Sudhir Sachdeva of Sushant Lok 1.
 
 Residents of Ardee City and Sushant Lok 2 and 3 blamed Huda for insufficient supply. “As much as 65% of our township is dependent on tankers, which cost Rs 1,500. We never thought we’d have to pay such a big price to live here,” said resident Sushma. Against the city’s daily requirement of 300 MGD, the Basai WTP has been supplying around 60 MGD, while the Chandu Budhera plant has managed around 22 MGD in the past few days.
 
 Some areas even lack pipelines. Ravi Kumar of Sushant Lok 3 said, “DLF 4 and Sushant Lok 1 are affected by technical issues, but parts of Sushant Lok 3 don’t have pipeline network.” The area has been inhabited for 15 years.
 
 A group of affected residents met the Huda administrator on Wednesday and were assured their woes will end soon. “The problem is, licensed builders have not built enough storage to meet residents’ needs. It gets exaggerated when Huda supply is hit in summer, or by breakdowns, infrastructure work like shifting of pipelines, etc,” said R.S Rathee, president of Gurgaon Citizens’ Council.
 
 “Residents have been assured supply will soon be normalised,” said a Huda official.
 
 Sudhir Kapoor of DLF City RWA also reassured DLF 4 residents. “We’ll ensure the pipeline leakage is sorted by tomorrow. We sent all four of our own tankers to the area for free today. With regards to storage, DLF has enough capacity; problems arise mostly when Huda supply falls short,” he told TOI. 
 
