The   brass is all for maintaining a tough security stance to contain terrorism in J&K.

 The party seemingly feels that calls for a dialogue, articulated by some opposition leaders, may not have taken into account the ground situation in J&K and that separatists and the political opposition are allegedly looking for signs of weakness on part of the Centre and doing their utmost to play on fault lines in the ruling coalition.
 
 The time, feel BJP sources, is simply not right for any political outreach, particularly with separatists, as the state government is going all out against infiltrators, and central agencies ranging from the  , income tax to enforcement directorate are examining the funding of Hurriyat leaders.
 
 The emphasis, in terms of government action as well in political terms, is to give a tough message on terrorism even as the party remains committed to running the coalition in Srinagar with PDP.
 
 The recent Amarnath attack has raised questions on whether being part of the coalition in J&K is hurting BJP in terms of differences on tackling separatism. But the attack on Amarnath pilgrims is seen as an incident, though highly unfortunate, is part of the risk in the light of the threats to target the yatra. The suggestions of some opposition leaders that the hard options should not preclude political engagement does not wash with the BJP leadership which does not see any profit in talks with various stakeholders in the state.
 
 The PDP-BJP coalition, with its contradictions in terms of constituencies, is the most representative government possible in the assembly and this provides political representation in a state where normal activities of the state are severely disrupted by terrorism, seems to be the view in the party.
 
 There may be little alternative to seeing the developments in J&K in a longer term perspective as the phase of violence unleashed by the death of   leader   last year and the clear step up in actions by the Pakistan army to fuel unrest in the valley continues.
 
 The Amarnath attack is also being seen in the light of the yatris breaking security protocol and travelling late with escort. But more such incidents will increase the pressure on the Centre and BJP in terms of the fallout in rest of the country.
 
 
 
 
