ROHTAK: The much-touted meeting and subsequent joint press conference of CM   with Jat leaders did not happen on Friday, resulting into All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) accusing the BJP’s Haryana government of betrayal and misleading the community.

 Addressing a press conference in Rohtak on Friday, AIJASS chief   said the dharnas being held across Haryana would continue, and they would also go ahead with their plan to gherao Parliament on March 20 to press for their demands.
 
 Referring to their proposed meeting with CM Khattar, Malik said they were hopeful of reaching an amicable settlement after Thursday’s Panipat meeting with cabinet minister Ram Bilas Sharma. He said they had pinned hopes on the meeting with the CM slated to be held at Haryana Bhawan in New Delhi on Friday but the CM left for Chandigarh without meeting them.
 
 “This shows that the state government hatched a conspiracy against us and misled the people in order to deflect our agitation. The cancellation of the meeting with the CM has left us with no choice but to go ahead with the agitation,” he claimed.
 
 The meeting with the three-member ministerial panel was the third round of talks between the government and Jat protesters. On Thursday, Bilas had claimed that they had pacified the community representatives and the protest would end soon.
 
 Withdrawal of pending cases against community members and release of Jats arrested for their involvement in last year’s violence was the main demand raised by the Jat delegation. They have also been seeking jobs for the families of those killed in police firing in February last year.
 
 On being asked whether they agreed to further talks with the state government, Malik stated that talks could be held but only with competent authorities of the Union and Haryana governments.
 
 Raising question on not permitting tractor-trailers to enter Delhi during their protest march, Malik said they were registered vehicles and would enter the national capital lawfully. “Delhi Police do not have authority to bar entry of tractor-trailers,” he claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, AIJASS has shifted the responsibilities of holding the sit-in at Jassia to women. According to the decision, men would go to Delhi on March 20 and women would continue the sit-ins and manage the protest till the return of the male members.
 
 
