PANAJI: Amidst a sea of cash-rich candidates in Goa - 62% are crorepatis -  , or Joe Boy as he is popularly known, is contesting his fourth and definitely the last state assembly election from  , without any registered asset in his name.

 Always in the news for being a “history-sheeter”, Joe has had several cases registered against him: gang wars, extortion, intimidation, besides, arms and ammunition when Goa police claimed to have recovered country-made guns, hi-tech pen pistols, a telescopic gun, revolvers and a rifle after his interrogation in 2001.
 
 The   (ADR) released its report on Tuesday and Joe doesn’t figure among the 19 who have serious criminal cases against them. He has a case pending though — endangering life or personal safety of others (IPC Section-336) — against him, a charge he flatly denies and calls “fabricated”.
 
 “It’s true, I do not have any asset, but why do you need assets to contest and win elections? I have presented myself as an option to the electorate. If they feel I can serve them well, they will vote for me. I don’t want to go door-to-door begging for votes,” said Joe, whose profile on a social networking website describes him as a real estate broker.
 
 Joe, 43, has been contesting elections since 2002. During the last assembly polls in 2012, he polled just 74 votes and finished seventh among the eight contestants. Even in 2002 and 2007, he lagged far behind with 246 and 186 votes respectively.
 
 “This is my last election. Right now I am young and enterprising. If the people have failed to understand me for four consecutive elections, I won’t take a chance (again),” he said.
 
 The accidental politician confesses he hasn’t approached too many people to explain his vision for the constituency. For the next two days, however, he will go around on his friend’s vehicle, advertising his candidature, and will go door-to-door, only in the slums of Indiranagar in Chimbel where the ‘illiterate’ electorate will need some convincing.
 
 “If you check the cases against me, they are all filed by history-sheeters and the court has exonerated me. I am not a rich guy and don’t have ill-gotten money, but I can promise that I would be a better choice than anyone else,” said Joe.
 
 At least for the last three elections, St Cruz has remained unconvinced. Not that Joe has tried.
 
 
