Thanks to Delhi's proximity to Rishikesh, there’s an increasing demand of weekend packages to the hill station, which is a hub of adventure sports. Many tour and travel operators offer combos for camping on the ghats of the Ganga along with rafting in the mighty river. While Delhiites take a great deal of interest in the 'star ratings' of the camps, not many ask for details of the guides, the levels of rapids they will face or the kind of preparation they should do. The recent case of a Delhi man drowning while rafting in Rishikesh has made many reconsider their plans. Thirty-five-year old Subhash Kumar and his cousins were taking a turn on the Golf Course Rapids when their raft capsized, leading to his death. Subhash's cousin has alleged that one of their guides was only 15 years old and inexperienced. Many other tourists and operators share similar experiences, and say that lack of knowledge, overconfidence and inexperienced guides are the reasons why rafting has been a near-death experience for many.

  
  There have been several reports of people getting injured or dying while rafting in the Ganga in and near Rishikesh. Many have said that some guides lack knowledge and experience, nor do they have licences. Some also blame accidents on 'overenthusiastic' tourists 
  
  
  
 
  
 While the maximum posts on social media are about "thrilling" rafting experiences, there's a fair number of posts which also highlight various near-death experiences. One such blog post states, "The big prize of the day was a rapid called The Wall, a Grade IV rapid which gets a bad reputation for being the most fierce one in Rishikesh. The   government banned amateur rafters from rafting on this rapid in 2013, something I discovered much later. As we approached The Wall, a friend and I thought it would be a good idea to cover this rapid on a kayak. We stopped a little before the rapid started, and got down from our rafts to walk along The Wall and gauge its difficulty. It looked violent, unforgiving and ferocious."
 
  
  Raft operators in Rishikesh say that people should always check for the company's licence before booking their holiday (BCCL/ Shikhar Dua)
 
 The blogger adds, "We were thrilled, and abandoned our spots on the raft to jump on to the two-person kayak. The force of the rapid toppled our kayak and sucked us into the water within the first few seconds. I've never felt more out of control as I did in those 15-20 seconds. I got thrown into the riverbed and the current banged me against several rocks underwater. I hit my head against one of them with great impact, but the helmet I was wearing made sure I didn't crack my skull open. I was trapped under a strong current, and was slowly starting to run out of breath. The current didn't allow me to have any control over my body, and even with a life-vest on, I was at the bottom of the river with little hope of making it back up. I'd started to breathe in little bits of water and was slowly starting to give up, when the water finally decided to push me back out. I can't remember what I felt in the moments after I came back up. Maybe it was a little bit of relief, but it was mostly a lot of shock and trauma."
 
  
  
 
  Akhil Kumar, owner of a construction company in Delhi, went for rafting with five of his friends, which turned out to be a "horrible experience." Their two-day package included rafting in Rishikesh. "All these guides who were available there were 17-18-year-old boys from neighbouring villages. And since everyone who came for rafting was going with them, we trusted them thinking that it was their everyday job. We had one guide on our raft and the only thing that he asked us was if we wanted to go for The Wall, and without knowing much about it, we said yes. As we were about to cross the rapid, the force of water was so fierce that the raft capsized and we were all deep inside the water. One of my friends managed to climb on to the raft and realised that the guide was the first one who needed to be pulled out from the water. He pulled him out and then they rescued us. It was only for a few seconds, but in those few seconds I actually saw death approaching. When I was pulled out, I was losing my breath, was about to faint and water had to be pumped out of my system," Akhil recalls.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Some travellers say that guides are not always at fault. The overexcitement and thrill to achieve something people have never done before also often lead to disasters. Simran Suri, a photographer from Gurgaon, had a similar experience, but admits that "we were too excited to take the guide seriously." She adds, "We were a group of five family members who decided to go for rafting from the highest point, Byasi Camp. Our guide did warn us about the Grade III rapid called the Gold Course, but we took his warning lightly as we were having a very smooth ride till we reached that rapid. Our raft capsized and a few of us hit the rocky riverbed, and sustained injuries. The water was freezing and it was within seconds that our guide pulled us out, but I still dread to think what would have happened if he would not have pulled us out at the right time. It was the worst experience of my life and I will never dare to go for rafting again."
 
  A respondent on a travel website's query, 'Is Rishikesh dangerous?' mentions in his reply, "I have seen some people bribing the captain and doing stunts while  . In such cases, accident cannot be ruled out."
 
  
  According to the permit given by the Uttarakhand government, a raft should have 8 tourists, 1 guide and 1 helper (BCCL/ Shikhar Dua)
 
  
  
 
  Jayant Tanwar, a media professional, shares with us, "Five out of eight of my friends were thrown into the Ganga after our raft partially capsized in the strong current of a rapid, Club House. My five friends were swept far away. There was shock and panic for a few minutes. The remaining three of us, by following the instructions of our guide, chased them and finally managed to reach three of them and brought them aboard again. The other two were rescued by the rafters who were moving along with us in other boats. We will never forget the incident."
 
  
  
 
 (*Names changed on request)
 
 --With inputs from Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
