PATNA: The Bihar   will chalk out plans at its two-day state executive committee meeting in Siwan on January 21 and 22 regarding its role in the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh and Punjab assembly elections, said state party spokesman and former lawmaker Prem Ranjan Patel on Friday.

 BJP general secretary (organization) Saudan Singh and general secretary in-charge of Bihar, Bhupender Yadav, as well as all the Union ministers from the state, along with MPs and MLAs, would participate in the two-day meet, said another spokesman and MLC Sanjay Mayukh.
 
 This factor and the shadow of the poll-bound states highlight the significance of the Siwan meet. Otherwise, as per the party’s constitution, the state executive committee meeting should be held within a week of the national executive conclave to endorse the decisions taken there and, accordingly, would have been considered merely a routine affair, BJP functionaries felt.
 
 An interaction with the party’s rank and file here on Friday revealed that the prospects of likely participation in the poll-bound UP and Punjab have injected into them a sense of excitement. The excitement is natural, because the party’s central leadership did not take any formal decision with regard to their participation in assembly election campaign in West Bengal and Assam last year.
 
 “The Siwan meet is likely to discuss which of the districts would send how many of their respective functionaries to the specific districts/constituencies in UP and Punjab,” Patel said. The   has 43 organizational districts in the state.
 
 Further, the Siwan meet will also decide the set of programmes that the state unit would organize to celebrate the birth centenary of the party’s founder president  , state spokesman Sanjay Singh Tiger said.
 
 The Siwan meet, however, would be of the old executive committee constituted by the party’s former state chief Mangal Pandey, who is already camping there. The new state chief,  , has indicated that he would constitute his committee sometime in April — obviously after the UP and Punjab assembly elections. 
 
