New Delhi: The   slammed as “baseless” allegations of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, though without naming him, that EVMs used in recent UP polls were being deployed for bypolls in Madhya Pradesh in violation of a rule that bans re-use of EVMs for 45 days after declaration of results. 

 The panel clarified on Monday that no   used in UP poll had been redeployed for Madhya Pradesh bypolls. Rather only ‘reserve’ VVPAT machines, for which the 45-day restriction does not apply and which were never used for polling in UP, were allocated. 
 
 “Certain baseless observations and allegations have been made by a leader of a political party today (Monday) in a press conference regarding the use of EVMs... The commission would like to clarify the legal position. The EVMs comprising the Control Unit (CU) and Ballot Unit (BU) used in any election shall be kept in a strong room after declaration of results and shall not be accessed by anyone till the period of filing of election petition is over. The election petition has to be filed within 45 days. However, in case of VVPAT machines, the printed paper slips have to be retrieved at the time of counting and sealed in a paper envelope and only these sealed paper slips have to be kept inside the strong room along with the EVMs.” 
 
 The poll watchdog said VVPAT machines were not required by law to be retained in the strong room for purpose of election petitions, and redeploying them for subsequent polls was as per the existing policy of EC, since it had only 53,500 VVPAT machines. Still, it added,   had taken care to redeploy only the VVPAT machines that were kept in reserve and not used during the actual poll in UP, for bypolls in MP and other states. 
 
 Countering Kejriwal’s multiple tweets and retweets naming various UP constituencies from where EVMs for MP bypolls were sourced, EC put out an exhaustive list detailing the states from where each of the VVPAT machine was shifted for bypolls across 10 states. Responding to “aspersions” cast on it that EVMs from UP were moved to Bhind, EC said the allegations were made without verifying the facts.
 
