Dressed in a black gown, Belarusian   Natallia Kapylova transported the 200-member strong audience at   back to the grandeur of 17th century Europe with her tribute to legendary Western Classical composer  . Talking about her introduction to Western classical music, she says, “I didn’t come from a family of musicians. But I was lucky enough to have a music teacher come to my hometown, Minsk, who was in search of children with potential in music. But my teacher later revealed that she only chose me because I resembled how she looked! (laughs) But hey! I backed up my cuteness with talent, eh?” quips Natallia.
Although she speaks with a thick Russian accent, Natallia says she is “very Indian” in many ways. “I’ve been in India for 15 years now and I have lived in Bengaluru for eight years. I’m married to an Indian, my cooking is Indian, and I love the Indian way of life. But I am very proud of my Belarusian roots in terms of art and music,” says the 42-year-old. 
 After having married an Indian, Natallia moved to India, a country that had many similarities to her own. “Russian and Indian cultures are very deeply connected. The Russian language has some similarities to Sanskrit. Indians are sensitive, they enjoy good food, music and the movies are equally melodramatic. That’s what Western classical music is all about too — expression,” says Natallia adding, “Kishore Kumar’s music has made an impression on me. I don’t understand the meaning of the songs, but his voice and melody is so magical.” 
 When asked if she had ever thought of learning an Indian instrument, Natallia mentions, “The sarangi has a lot of emotion, but I love the sitar.”
 Despite the fact that she’s played all over the world and the country as a solo artiste Natallia mentions that the most memorable moments of her career are the not so conventionally significant ones. “Big stages or grand applause doesn’t do it for me. Instead, I cherish knowing that someone has been moved by my music. Music is my hiding place and I love to take people there with me,” shares Natallia, as she glances at her piano. “I've talked too much. I miss playing already!,” she says, signing off on a witty note. 
 
