MUMBAI: The   and MNS are locked in a bitter fight in the G-North municipal ward, which is considered to be a Maharashtrian stronghold. However, the fact is that both parties are on a sticky wicket in the ward that comprises Dadar.

 G-North is a patchwork of old houses, belonging chiefly to the traditional Somvansheeya Kshatriya-CKP-Pathare Prabhu communities, weather-beaten chawls, tree-lined Shivaji Park neighbourhood and upscale high-rise apartments. Though the MNS bagged five seats in the ward in the 2012  , this time around it is riddled with largescale defections and is bogged down by its dismal perfomances in the 2014 Lok Sabha and state assembly elections.
 
 MNS party leader in the BMC and sitting corporator from Shivaji Park Sandeep Deshpande has been forced to field his wife, Swapna, from the area as the ward has been reserved for women after delimitation. However, residents feel that Swapna, a former government employee, faces a tough fight from Shiv Sena's nominee, Vishakha Raut, who is ex-mayor of Mumbai.
 
 Shivaji Park resident Ashoke Rawat said that votes are likely to get divided with a former mayor and a government employee in the fray . “What a voter decides at the eleventh hour cannot be said. Thankfully, owing to court directions, the city has not been defaced with too many posters, at least in Shivaji Park,“ he added.
 
 Another setback for MNS has been that the Ruparel College area--one of the five seats the party won in the last civic elections-has been dropped in the delimitation exercise. The seat has been merged into the Dharavi part of the ward. Another sitting corporator Sudhir Jadhav , who is also a memeber of the standing committee, has fielded his wife, Snehal. But for Snehal, contesting for elections is nothing new. She has been a corporator thrice earlier.
 
 In the Shiv Sena too, all is not well. Party rebels have been flexing their muscles and wresting the ward from the MNS will be a daunting task for Sena, said poll experts. The candidature of vibhaag pramukh and MLA Sada Sarvankar's son Samadhan for civic polls has sparked discontent among Sena workers, said observers. In fact, there is a rebellion in the Sena in the Parel-Wadala-Lalbaug stretch too, which is largely seen by Shiv Sainiks as their Marathi vote-bank.
 
 No prizes to guess both Sena and MNS are expected to play the Marathi card. The MNS is telling people that their leader   recently offered friendship to the Sena to consolidate Marathi votes in the face of a BJP threat to de-link Mumbai from Maharashtra. The Sena, on the other hand, is harp ing on the Samyukta Maharashtra theme to “expose“ the BJP's design to carve out a separate Vidarbha, said a senior party functionary . Sena president Uddhav Thackeray at a rally in Bhandup on Sunday warned that any decision to bifurcate Maharashtra would be met with tough resistance from Marathis. The BJP too is keen on making inroads in the ward.
 
 Interestingly, the city headquarters of the Sena, MNS and city BJP--Sena Bhavan, Rajgad and Vasant Smriti--are all located in the ward.
 
