GHAZIABAD: The Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance would garner over 300 out of 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh in the assembly polls,   said at his maiden election meeting in Ghaziabad on Wednesday, before hinting that the coalition, forged 10 days ago, was one for the long term.

 The immediate goal of the tie-up, the chief minister said, was to “weed out BJP and other communal forces”, first from the state, and then, from the country. And its ultimate aim “is to change the political scenario of India”, Akhilesh told thousands of SP supporters who attended the meeting. “No wonder, they (BJP functionaries) are afraid of this coalition.”
 
 The chief minister named Congress vice-president   as his partner in this effort and furnished a couple of reasons why their camaraderie would click. “Both of us are roughly the same age (The 43-year-old CM is three years Rahul’s junior). We both have long political careers ahead of us,” he said. However, Akhilesh seemed to turn wary after some time, claiming that there could be a post-poll covert understanding between BSP and BJP to keep SP out of power. “BSP transferred its entire vote bank to BJP during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. That’s how BJP won so many Lok Sabha seats in UP and BSP could not win any,” he said.
 
 BJP had swept the state three years ago, winning 71 out of 80 LS seats. SP managed to win only five and Congress two. Referring to SP’s election manifesto, the party chief claimed though BJP “copied all of it" (in their own manifesto), SP’s sops would be enough to bring it back to office. “We have promised free smartphones to people in UP. So far, around 1.40 crore people have registered themselves under this programme. If all of them vote for us, the   will get over 300 seats, enough for us to form the government,” he said.
 
 Akhilesh ended the meeting by again targeting BJP and BSP. After taking a jibe at the BJP-led Union government for its ‘demonetisation’ policy, he hit out at former CM and BSP chief Mayawati for her “lavish expenditure” in building parks and memorials.
 
 
