INDORE: Nearly half of the candidates who appeared for the   ( ) preliminary examination on Sunday found that papers 1 and 2 were average in standard. 

 The   was held at 63 examination centres across the city on Sunday in two sessions, from 10am to 12pm and 2pm to 4pm. General studies and quantitative aptitude were also included as part of the exam.
 
 Students who studied hard for the examination said the paper was not up to the mark for selecting public service officers. Instead the standard of the examination was lowered.
 
 “Many of my students complained about the duration of the examination. The question paper was outdated and did not look like it was meant for selecting officers. Rather it seemed like a recruitment for peons. It’s time that MPPSC enhances its standards of setting question papers. The students who had worked so hard on current affairs were disappointed because the current affairs asked in the paper were too old,” said Pradeep Shrivastav, a coaching expert for   exams in the city.
 
 However, the examination was conducted under tight security and students were frisked twice before entering the centres. Students with watches, jewellery, mobile phones, calculators, caps and other electronic gadgets were asked to leave them outside the hall. Students were also asked to keep their shoes and socks outside. Students were allowed to take only pens, admit cards and identity cards inside.
 
 Invigilators that were strictly directed to report at 9 am at the centres, were not allowed out on breaks till the examination ended. An MPPSC team also moved from centre to centre to keep a check.
 
 The students also reached the examination centres sharp at 9 am. Over 2.15 lakh candidates from the state appeared in the board examination.
 
 In a bid to curb cheating in the examination process, MPPSC has introduced observers for the examination. The observers were keeping an eye on candidates during the examination and will be submitting a reports on the same to MPPSC.
 
 
