Madurai: Refusing to stay the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) matches scheduled to be held at the ICL cricket ground in Tirunelveli, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday instead directed the Tirunelveli collector and the president of Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) to ensure adequate infrastructure and safety measures at the ground.

 With this direction, the bench headed by chief justice Indira Banerjee disposed the public interest litigation filed by A E Rajan seeking interim injunction restraining the TNCA from conducting the tournament at ICL ground and direction to shift to any other place.
 
 The petitioner told the court that the TNPL began recently in which eight teams are scheduled to play 32 matches including 28 league, three semifinals and a final in Chennai, Dindigul and Tirunelveli. The 32 matches include eight matches in Chennai, 11 in Dindigul and 13 in Tirunelveli. In Tirunelveli, 12 league matches and one semifinal match will take place at the ICL ground in Bala Vidyalaya School, run by India Cements.
 
 However, the TNCA has not taken adequate steps in respect of safety measures. It set up a roof for VIP Gallery. But, the roof is not set up for public gallery, which will lead to health hazards. 
 
 Besides, the ICL cricket ground has a single entrance. Around 3,000 people can be accommodated in the ground. As the ground is adjacent to National Highways 44, the visitors would come to highway at the end of match, which may result in accidents. Already, many accidents have taken place on NH 44. 
 
 The district collector and superintendent of police failed to consider those aspects and granted permission for the matches. Regarding that the petitioner sent a representation to them on July 14 requesting them to order to hold matches elsewhere. But, they did not act on the representation, the petitioner said.
 
 The TNCA side said that sufficient gates have been set up there. Last year too, matches were conducted, during which there was no any untoward incident.
 
 The government also reiterated that permission was given after conducting proper inspection.
 
 
