GURGAON: Four people, including two women and a minor girl of the same family, were killed and eight others injured in a head-on collision between a Skoda Rapid and a Swift Dzire near   on Farrukhnagar-Jhajjar road on Monday night.

 According to police, the accident happened around 10.30pm on Monday when 32-year-old Jitender Kumar, a resident of Sawad village in Charkhi Dadri district, and seven of his family members, including three children, were coming to Gurgaon in a black Skoda. 
 
 The family was on its way to   temple in the city for the mundan ceremony of their one-year-old child, Yash. But as soon as they reached near Mubarikpur village, a speeding white Swift Dzire that was coming from Farrukhnagar side rammed head on into the Skoda before crashing into its right side.
 
 Though the front air bags of both the cars opened up, all the 12 occupants of the vehicles — eight in Skoda and four in Swift Dzire — were injured badly in the accident and rushed to two different private hospitals in Jhajjar and Gurgaon by local residents and police, where four succumbed to their injuries.
 
 The cars were travelling at a high speed and the impact of the accident was such that both the vehicles were badly damaged, cops said, adding that it took them some time to bring out those trapped inside the vehicles. The deceased have been identified as Jitender’s mother Ombai (60), his wife Mamta (28) and daughter Nikunj (6), and Amit Kumar, the driver of the Swife Dzire, originally from Fogat village in Jhajjar district.
 
 The injured include Jitender, his two sons — Mannu (4) and Yash — his brother-in-law Vikram Singh, and his relative Arun Kumar, who was driving the Skoda, and three passengers of Swift Dzire — Zile Singh, Suman and Sakshi — all residents of Jahajgarh village in Jhajjar.
 
 “Arun’s condition is critical, while other family members of Jitender are out of danger. Jitender was also discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. The three injured occupants of Swift Dzire are being treated at a private hospital,” said ASI Sanjeev Kumar, the investigating officer at Farrukhnagar police station.
 
 Vikram has lodged a complaint at Farrukhnagar police station. “We were on our way to Sheetla Mata temple in Gurgaon and it was around 10.30 pm that the Swift Dzire rammed into our car when we reached near Mubarikpur village. Though our car was in high speed, the accident was the result of negligence of the other car driver,” he said.
 
 On the basis of Vikram’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against the deceased driver of Swift Dzire under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of   at Farrukhnagar police station.
 
 “We have handed over the bodies of all the four to their family members after a post-mortem. Though the air bags of both the cars opened up, four persons were killed,” added ASI Kumar.
 
