PATNA:   (PU), which is gearing up for its   on a grand scale in a couple of months, is likely to get handsome grants under the UGC scheme of ‘special heritage grants’. A detailed project report for availing this grant is likely to be submitted to the UGC within a week, said   Dolly Sinha on Friday.

 PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh, who returned from New Delhi recently after meeting the UGC chairman, constituted a committee headed by pro-VC for preparing the project report at the earliest. A meeting of the committee was held on Friday and it discussed all the aspects to be included in the report. A university is entitled to get up to Rs10 crore under this scheme.
 
 The pro-VC pointed out that several   buildings and institutions have been declared heritage sites by the state government as well as the Archaeological Survey of India. These buildings include Patna College, B N College, Patna University office, Darbhanga House and Patna Science College.
 
 PU has already sent a detailed proposal to the UGC for adequate grants to implement its various schemes during the centenary year. These schemes include construction of a cultural complex, auditorium with a capacity of 2500 people, geological field museum and three multistorey blocks to house its postgraduate departments. PU is also contemplating to develop its Saidpur complex and complete the construction of the buildings of Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, PG department of applied economics and commerce, UGC-HRD resource centre and its directorate of distance education (DDE) there. Some of these new constructions proposed to be undertaken by PU in its centenary year would be located at Rani Ghat, Patna College, Krishna Kunj and Patna Science College, said  .
 
 PU has also decided to create some special structures in each college and postgraduate department to mark the centenary celebration. One such structure, called ‘Centenary Globe’, has already been erected on the PU central library lawn. Governor-cum-chancellor Keshri Nath Tripathi will inaugurate this structure along with the renovated library building on July 26.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the PU centenary celebrations sometime in September, said sources.
 
