Mandya/ Mysuru: Visiting his hometown   for the first time after his sudden decision to resign from the  , former chief minister   on Monday said that he would decide on the future course of action after consulting his supporters.

 At his ancestral village, Somanahalli, Krishna recalled his long and successful tryst with Maddur assembly constituency, where he had fought his first electoral battle against Congress stalwart HK   in 1962. "There was a strong wave in favour of the Congress party. But I contested the assembly election as a Praja Socialist Party candidate from Maddur, and the people of Mandya vested their faith in me, and helped me triumph," he said.
 
 He said that history was repeating itself insofar as pitting him against the Congress again. "I will see if I should join another political party or float a new outfit after consulting my supporters," he added.
 
 Dismissing reports of BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa making an overture to join the party, Krishna said, "Our discussion was confined to exchanging pleasantries."
 
 He pointed out that it was too soon to announce whether he would contest the assembly election from Maddur. 
 
 Rubbishing reports that he had been divested of his external affairs portfolio for embarrassing the country by reading out a speech meant for the Portugese foreign minister at a UN meeting in 2011, Krishna said, "There’s a Kannada proverb, ‘Kallanigondhu pille nepa (even a thief has a flimsy excuse)’. Congress high command cited such an insignificant incident to sack me unceremoniously."
 
 Former MLC leaves Congress
 
 Former MLC and social activist D Madegowda followed in the footsteps of his leader Krishna, and announced that he was leaving the Congress. He said that he had intimated KPCC G Parameshwara of his decision. Meanwhile, Vikran P Devegowda resigned from his post of Mysuru city's party secretary. However, he has not quit the party.
 
 SMK declines offer from JD(S) 
 
 D(S) leaders CS Puttaraju, Mandya MP and Maddur MLA DC Tammanna met Krishna, inviting him to join the party. Highlighting the role that his experience would play in the development of the state, and the Mysuru region in particular, the two leaders asked the former CM to throw in his lot with the JD(S). Tammanna, in fact, expressed his willingness to vacate Maddur assemble constituency for Krishna. But the senior leader politely refused the offer. tnn
 
 .
 
 
