MARGAO: Francis ‘Boy’ Pereira from Curchorem, who has been arrested by police in connection with the spate of   cases in South Goa, was behaving like a man possessed while committing the crimes, police sources said.

 It has now come to light that the night Pereira desecrated the cross at Calconda, Margao on July 14, he had gone about vandalizing three more crosses in Margao, which were noticed only on Saturday, sources said. 
 
 “It is thus evident that this man was keeping a very close watch on the movements of police patrol vehicles, before deciding to strike. The fact that he had managed to hoodwink the police and give them the slip all these years had only emboldened him,” a police source said.
 
 Sources also said Pereira was stopped by police two days ago at Curtorim while he was proceeding towards Curchorem during the night in his taxi. However, he beguiled police by his charming mannerisms which made them believe his story about how he had gone to drop his passengers at Vasco that delayed him, and then went to buy fish at the wholesale fish market at Margao in the wee hours, before proceeding home.
 
 Police investigations have revealed that while on one such night mission of desecration, wary of increased police presence during night hours and fearing that he might be caught, Pereira hid the hammer that he was carrying in his car at some secluded place and also threw out the wooden baton. He collected the hammer on his return trip making sure it was safe for him to do so.
 
 Police sources said he came under their radar after the desecration of the cemetery and finally landed in police dragnet on Saturday night. 
 
 On Sunday, as part of the investigations, police took Pereira to several sites of desecration which he claimed to have committed, where he demonstrated to them how he vandalised the holy structures. At the Guardian Angel Church cemetery, Pereira scaled the high compound wall with amazing ease, to show police how he entered the cemetery and later escaped on seeing them. 
 
 While Pereira has been remanded in three-day police custody by the court, investigators have found that he had stashed away a considerable amount of money in fixed deposits in banks. Police are now verifying the source of this money, which, they believe may provide them with more clues that could unravel his association, if any, with other groups or individuals.
 
 
