NEW DELHI:   B affects 40 million people in India and another 10 million suffer from hepatitis C. Treatment is long-term and costly but doctors say patients are more traumatised with the discrimination they have to face in society.

 They are discriminated against within the family and while applying for jobs as people think the disease can spread by touching the infected individual. 
 
 “Every day, I get 8-10 patients who complain about being discriminated against. Often, they rue that relatives don’t visit or talk to them thinking physical proximity may lead to disease transmission. Companies avoid hiring such individuals. Young patients find it difficult to get married,” Dr S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said.
 
 He added that many nurses and para-medical staff seeking jobs in middle-east countries don’t get visa if they are hepatitis B positive. Doctors, Sarin said, are at a higher risk of getting infected if there is percutaneous exposure to needles contaminated with blood of patients infected with hepatitis B virus. “It is an occupational hazard. Some doctors get infected but don’t disclose it fearing they would lose their jobs,” said.
 
 Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver, most commonly caused by a viral infection. There are five main hepatitis viruses, referred to as types A, B, C, D and E.
 
 Doctors say types B and C lead to chronic disease and, together, they are the most common cause of liver cirrhosis and cancer. “Hepatitis C is totally curable these days and hepatitis B can be effectively treated in 95% cases. Still, people treat patients with suspicion and discriminate with them,” Dr S K Acharya, executive director, gastroenterology and hepatology at Fortis hospital, Vasant Kunj.
 
 Hepatitis B, he said, is transmitted mostly from infected mothers to infants at the time of birth, through contaminated blood and blood products and tattooing and body-piercing among others. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is mostly also transmitted through contaminated blood and blood products and contaminated injections during medical procedures. Sexual transmission is also possible, but is less common.
 
 Preventive measures such as compulsory vaccination for hepatitis B, promoting safe sex and screening of blood for infections at the time of transfusion can help check the spread of diseases.
 
 Unlike HIV, where years of advocacy have helped press upon the patient’s rights, experts say there is no national programme to create awareness about hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
 
 “Stigma prevents people from coming out. If that is removed, many more lives can be saved,” said the ILBS director. More than 1 lakh people die due to hepatitis B and C every year, he added.
 
