GURUGRAM: A scholar, an  , a dreamer, a 25-year-old   left behind an   that takes viewers into the world of a dreamer who clung on to hope.   who was fighting cancer for 12 long years, converted all her pain into painting.

 Bhattacharya lost her life to cancer at 25 in 2001, after suffering from it for 12 years. But the Gurgaon-based talented artist translated all her inner pain and trauma onto her canvas. She created an extensive collection of paintings which, while showcasing her life’s journey also painted different shades of womanhood.
 
 To pay tribute to the artist, Arpita’s Foundation for Art & Creative Talents, a non-profit organisation, has released a book titled AFACT. The idea is to promote art therapy and motivate cancer patients to engage in some kind of creative arts, thus helping them to overcome the depression, anxiety and pain.
 
 Sipra Bhattacharya, Arpita’s aunt, who has written the book, says that it contains a collection of 70 colour paintings by Arpita. “I have written accompanying paragraphs about her, her ideas, style of painting, her inspiration, even explaining the theme of her pictures. She drew women, always full of spirit, courage, and energy. She was very brave. We never saw her in a negative mood, or sad, or even showing any distress. Right till the last couple of months of her life, she continued her studies. She went to London School of Economics to study further, but never finished it. Painting helped her to manage her pain. Though it was her hobby, it helped her to focus on positive ideas,” Sipra says.
 
 “Writing AFACT was an act of love, a tribute to Arpita’s brave and cheerful spirit. She had become wise at a very young age, which Sipra wanted to show the world. Through her courage, Arpita taught her family how to face life, how to value beauty, share experiences, love and friendship” Sipra Said.
 
 Getting the book together was a cathartic experience for the family. Sipra cites, “Arpita’s mother and uncle sifted through her paintings and selected them for the book. I decided to introduce Arpita by linking the paintings to various phases of her young life, various aspects of her personality, her beliefs and ideas. In some places, I have included a story from the Mahabharata or other mythologies to explain her themes. It was a very emotional experience, as after a gap of many years, we were re-inspired by her sheer courage. Also, the writing had to convey her personality without seeking sympathy; Arpita was too brave for that.”
 
 
