NEW DELHI: The bank account data of one crore   was   for  . And it was dirt cheap at 10 or 20 paisa per individual, police investigations have revealed.

 Probing the case of an 80-year-old woman from Greater Kailash in south Delhi, who had lost Rs 1.46 lakh from her credit card, the cops have busted the module which stole data from insiders in banks, call centres and authorized firms, and sold it to crooks.
 
 What is shocking is that the arrest of a key player in the trade has led the cops to recover stolen data of one crore people, claimed DCP (south east) Romil Baaniya.
 
 The data, comprising card number, card holder name, date of birth and mobile number, is in several categories and runs into more than 20 gigabytes. Most sought after data is of senior citizens bank details, police said.
 
 The arrested person, Puran Gupta, a resident of Pandav Nagar, has claimed that he usually sold bulk data of around 50,000 people for anything between Rs 10,000-20,000. The accused is said to have bought the data from a Mumbai-based supplier. Raids are being conducted to arrest him.
 
 The crooks used this data by posing as bank representatives and convinced people into sharing details such as the CVV number and OTP, and used these to withdraw money.
 
 As the crooks were already armed with details such as the person’s name and card number, many of their targets fall into the trap and ended up furnishing their passwords.
 
 Most of the time, the crooks said they were trying to confirm suspicious transactions and asked people to quickly share details so that an ongoing transaction could be blocked. They use other pretexts like encashing rewards point, card blocked etc to lure people.
 
 As first reported by TOI on April 6, the cops had arrested one Ashish Kumar for duping the GK resident. He had worked earlier in banks and financial institutions as a sales executive. In 2013, he started tele-calling for selling health insurance via his own web-portal.
 
 He used to purchase the data from Puran Gupta. Gupta worked as a data entry operator during which he got the idea to make money by selling data. 
 
 So, he started his own company in 2010 to provide data.
 
 “Gupta has disclosed that he had created a firm named ‘First step services and solution’ and got it registered on portals such as Just Dial. His clients used to call him through Just Dial and seek data required by them. The data was transferred through email,” the DCP added.
 
 
 
 
