CHANDIGARH: India could well be up against a   for the historic final Test at   from March 25. At a time when bad blood is at its peak between the two teams, the   curator has said he can't “alter the natural behavior of the track, which is fast and bouncy“.

 It is yet to be seen if the present conditions will irk India coach Anil Kumble and the team think tank.
 
 But, if curator Sunil Chauhan has his say, then the series decider would be an edgy affair, with Virat Kohli & Co. having to contend with conditions that suit the Australian fast bowlers. The fourmatch series is on a knife's edge at 1-1.
 
 Considering that Dharamshala is hosting its firstever Test, sources said that the HPCA should have been working on the pitch weeks in advance. On Tuesday, four days before the Test, the grass blades were still being trimmed - indicating that not much has been done to change its pacy nature, thus far. The pitch will behave as it has done naturally here. It will stay fast and bouncy,“ Chauhan told TOI over the phone. “It is one of the most difficult ones (when facing fast bowlers) in Ranji Trophy, and its nature won't be altered,“ he added, which should cheer up the Aussies further, after they fought out of their skin to draw the third Test on the final day in Ranchi and kept the series alive.
 
 Fast bowlers have dictated terms in the three Ranji Trophy matches played at the venue, in the season gone by.
 
 Bengal speedster  's match haul of 10 wickets leads the list of those examples. In the low-scoring match between Bengal and Railways, where the highest team total was 271, Dinda's 545 and 567 scripted Bengal's 43-run win.
 
 Ishwar Pandey, the Madhya Pradesh medium pacer, was the next to enjoy the juice in Dharamshala wicket. He had a match haul of 748 in the game MP won by 232 runs against Baroda, bowling out the opposition for 164 and 114. The high est total, though, still didn't cross 300.
 
 The only Ranji game where batsmen enjoyed the upper hand was the first of the season in Dharamshala, when help off the pitch and in the air was the least for pacers. But still Tamil Nadu pacer T Natarajan (483) and Uttar Pradesh seamer Ankit Rajpoot (4120) left an impression in the drawn match, in which   and Abhinav Mukund scored 187 and 154.
 
 Unperturbed by the pressure of HPCA hosting a Test for the first time, Chauhan said he and his staff are going about pitch preparation as they do for a first-class match.
 
 “Our preparation is the same and efforts are focused at providing a track that a five-day game needs, with something in it for everyone,“ he said, while maintaining that the pitch's natural behaviour will be the same.
 
 The HPCA stadium has hosted three ODIs and eight T20Is (two rained out) till now; but the ground's debut in the longest format, considering the state of the series on and off the field, could decide how long it will have to wait to host another Test.
 
