GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat BJP has decided to go on the offensive after the initial setback of the ‘Vikas gando thayo che’ campaign on social media. The party launched its advertisement campaign ‘Hu Vikas Chu, Hu Chu Gujarat’ which is to be used during the 4,657km ‘Gujarat Gaurav Yatra’, from October 1.

 On Thursday, Union minister   and   launched the new campaign for the fortnight-long the ‘Gujarat Gaurav Yatra’. In a bid to underline that BJP is not affected by the negative publicity surrounding vikas (development), the advertisements ask “You didn’t recognize me? I am Vikas”.
 
 The campaign lists the development works of ‘Modiji’ and ends with reverberating slogans of ‘Modi, Modi’, reiterating that Narendra Modi is going to be the face of the 2017 Gujarat elections. The campaign is addition to the hoardings of ‘Dhanyawad Modiji’, that have come up in Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat, highlighting various development works. These replaced the earlier “Congress nahi chaale (Congress won’t work in Gujarat)” campaign, which was promptly taken off hoardings and social media, as it was perceived to be too defensive even by party insiders.
 
 “Vikas (development) has been our mantra for 22 years and we will not respond to any negative propaganda. Vikas done under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership will be our central focus of the election campaign,” said Vaghani.
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah and CM Vijay Rupani will flag off the yatra and take part at various places. After the culmination of the yatra on October 15, PM Modi will address 7 lakh page pramukhs (workers in-charge of a page of the electoral roll) in Ahmedabad on October 16. The yatra will cover 149 rural seats while a separate campaign will be planned for urban seats.
 
 “People of Gujarat are intelligent enough to recognize the difference between the visible development of the BJP and the false propaganda of Congress,” Vaghani added.
 
 Goyal said, “Gujarat   will highlight visible and quantifiable development done in 22 years of BJP’s rule in Gujarat, in which 6.5 crore Gujaratis take pride.” Goyal said one phase of the yatra will be led by Vaghani and the other by DyCM Nitin Patel.
 
 
