JAISALMER: The   in an agriculture field near Mohangarh town of Jaisalmer on Saturday afternoon has left the owner of the field in shock. The farmer lives with his family including wife, two sons Mohit (15), Ankit (12), daughter Ravina (16) and parents Kumbharam (85) and Paru Devi (80). 

 Khiyaram Jat was expecting a good produce of jeera, but the explosion has ruined his crop. He told TOI that his parents are in a great state of shock and it will take them some time to come out of it. Jat had sown jeera on 20 bighas of land. The loss could be worth Rs 10 lakh. Sprinklers spread on his field worth Rs 2 lakh and jeera crop worth Rs 8 lakh have been totally damaged.
 
 Initial reports show that the incident occurred due to misfire from from the multiple launch rocket system (MLRS) SMEARCH   field firing range. One of the two missiles that were being tested, missed the target due to a technical snag and fell in Khiyaram Jat’s field, and exploded. The   has started investigation in this regard.
 
 Matadeen Sharma, district collector of Jaisalmer has sought a report in this regard. He added that he will talk to the Army so that such incidents do not occur in future.
 
 According to information from reliable sources, Indian Army’s   was testing SMEARCH guided missile that hits the target at a distance of 20 kms. On Saturday two missiles were fired, but one of the missiles deviated 800-1,000 metre and missed the target falling in the field. It exploded there causing damage to jeera crop sown in the field.
 
 Sources said that there could be three reasons for the missile deviating from the target, it could be a snag in ammunition, it could be due to change in weather or it could be human error. The Army has ordered high level investigation into this matter.
 
 District collector expressing deep concern over this incident said Jawahar Navodaya Vidhyalaya, which is situated around 2 km from the site, also felt the shockwaves. Over 500 students study in the school. On hearing the explosion, the children got scared and rushed out expecting an earthquake. He added during the military liaison meeting, he would take up this issue with the Army so that such incidents can be controlled in future.
 
 The collector has sought complete report about the incident and damage suffered by the farmer so that he can be given compensation as per rules. He added that he will also talk to the Army for compensation.
 
 
