BENGALARU: Karnataka has been hit hard by both drought and demonetisation. The state is anticipating a significant drop in  , particularly   in 2016-17. This is expected to have a huge impact on the growth of agriculture and allied sectors, and food self-sufficiency.

 The dip is attributed to a decline in the area of coverage and drought in many parts of the state, and the cash shortage triggered by demonetisation during the rabi season.
 
 After witnessing a lower kharif output due to a deficient southwest monsoon, farmers are dealing with the failure of rabi crops caused by the extended dry spell and demonetisation, agriculture department officials said.
 
 While the June-September season left a gaping rain deficit of 18 per cent, the October-December season proved even more disastrous, with a shortfall of 71 per cent, said agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda. “We saw a drop of 25%-30% in food production during the kharif season and are expecting a decline of 40%-45% in the rabi season,” he added.
 
 T N Prakash Kammaradi, chairman, Karnataka Agriculture Prices Commission (KAPC), said there is a steep fall in the production of staples, including jowar, ragi, maize, bajra and oilseeds like groundnut. “About 77 per cent of the rabi area is affected by severe moisture stress,” he added.
 
 According to a preliminary estimate of the agriculture department, 30-35 lakh farmers have been affected by drought. This is the third successive drought being witnessed by Karnataka. A trend analysis of the past 20 years reveals there has been a significant decrease in rain in most regions, especially in September, October, November and December. Such a significant departure from the norm is leading to an unprecedented crisis even in areas like Malnad, which usually have surplus water. Most irrigation dams are already down to 50 per cent of their storage capacity.
 
 The government is gearing up for the worst and is expected to declare another 25-30 taluks drought-hit; 139 of the total 177 taluks have already been declared drought-hit.
 
 The severe drought is expected to leave its imprint on the state economic survey too, said officials, as the growth of agriculture and allied services is expected to decline by 2%-3 %. 
 
 Kurbur Shantkumar, chairman of the Karnataka Cane Growers Association said the government should come out with a relief package to save the farmers. “Otherwise the growing trend of farmer suicides will continue in 2017 as well,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 * Khariff crops (2016)
 
 Sowing area target set by agriculture dept: 73 lakh hectares; Achieved: 71.67 lakh hectares
 
 * Rabi Crops (2016)
 
 Target: 32.25 lakh hectares; Achieved: 25.70 lakh hectares
 
 * Foodgrain production in 2016-17 
 
 Target: 140 lakh tonnes; Anticipated: 90-95 lakh tonnes
 
 * Percentage of drop in targeted foodgrain production 
 
 Kharif: 25%-35%; Rabi: 40%-50% 
 
 * Total crop loss and cost of cultivation incurred by farmers so far: Rs 17,369 crore
 
