KOLKATA: Chief minister   didn’t want a repeat of the Dhulagarh incident in  , which could smear the good work of her government at the grassroots. At the Howrah administrative meeting on Friday in a bid to avert trouble in the run up to the panchayat polls,   said she wanted the local administration and the police to be proactive and take steps before the situation ran out of control. The CM also sent out a stern message against filling up of waterbodies. 

 “BDOs and police inspectors are the face of the administration at the grassroots. You should have an information map of your locality ready. I want you all to keep a list of ICDS centres, mid-day meal centres, clubs, NGOs, temples and mosques and also the religious festivals. You should meet all these representatives to ensure a smooth information flow. I have information that some outsiders created the trouble at Dhulagarh. Don’t allow this. Use your sources and also put the civic police on the job,” the CM said. 
 
 She called out the local officials of Dhulagarh, Domjur and   to take stock of the preparedness.
 
 Another area that the CM was bothered about was electricity and low voltage. “This is a problem that I come to hear from villagers and infrastructure developers. I have a list of the areas with me that suffer from low voltage problem. We need to form a team to solve it. I can’t wait long.” 
 
 The chambers representatives also wanted drinking water supply in the industrial parks spread over 2,100 acres in Howrah through private initiative. “What we can do is to put an industrial town in these developing areas. I think that will help the government provide the necessary infrastructure — power, drinking water and access roads — to these industry parks built by private developers. Infrastructure apart, mutation and conversion remain a problem at the MSME industrial parks at Sankrail and Jangalpur.” The CM also wanted the Howarh mayor to solve the water scarcity in six municipal wards — 45 to 50 — on war footing.
 
 A chambers representative urged the CM to help them amalgamate scattered land private entrepreneurs have purchased for setting up industry. Banerjee, however,said that the government can’t ignore the agricultural land in between.
 
 Banerjee also reassured private hospitals and nursing homes in the district. “I request you to collect a copy of the recently framed rules under the   Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation & Transparency) Act. The government wants all to set up a public grievance cell in each healthcare institution. I expect you to take care of the complaints, if any, and try to settle it with the aggrieved patients. The government doesn’t want to intervene unless it is compelled to do so,” the CM said.
 
 
