MUMBAI: For the   time, three fast trains on the   to Churchgate—two starting from   and one from Malad— will not   at   during the morning peak hours. The move comes after Jogeshwari commuters protested against Western Railway’s new timetable that cancelled halts at their station for six fast trains—two originating from   and four from Goregaon.

 While three of the trains will still skip Jogeshwari, the other three will skip Andheri. These services are the 8.06am Malad-Churchgate local, 9.05am Goregaon-Churchgate   and the 9.59am Goregaon-Churchgate local).
 
 As the new timetable came into effect on Monday, Kailash Verma, general secretary of the Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh, sent a letter to railway authorities saying, “We do not mind if these three trains skip halts at   if they are halted at Jogeshwari.”
 
 WR’s divisional railway manager Mukul Jain said the move will come into effect from Wednesday. “But this is an interim measure and halts at Andheri will be restored once Harbour line trains start operating from Goregaon, with Jogeshwari having an addition of slow services.” The Harbour line is scheduled to open by December 2017.
 
 Andheri has daily footfalls of 6.04 lakh (8am to 10pm) as per a passenger survey conducted by Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation in 2013. No study has been done for Jogeshwari but railway officials estimate the footfalls could be around 2-2.5 lakh per day.
 
 Fast trains that originate from Virar generally do not halt between Kandivli and Jogeshwari. Once these trains depart from Borivli, the next halt is Andheri, skipping Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon and Jogeshwari. However, most fast trains that originate from Borivli stop at all stations up to Andheri except Ram Mandir as it does not have platforms on the fast corridor.
 
 WR’s fresh timetable has increased the number of services by 32 from the earlier total of 1,323. However, commuters in Jogeshwari were upset that six fast trains were now going to skip their station.
 
 RTI activist Mansoor Darvesh said, “These trains have had halts at Jogeshwari for the last 20 years. How can authorities withdraw services popular with residents?”
 
 Explaining the rationale behind the new timetable, a senior railway official said, “Of the six trains, two originate from Malad and four from Goregaon. These trains operate on the Churchgate-bound fast corridor. At the originating stations, they halt for at least three minutes. If we start giving halts at all stations between Malad/Goregaon and Andheri, each   will end up eating taking up 3-4 minutes more.” 
 
 WR said it had decided to go ahead with the new plan as there are an adequate number of slow trains from Jogeshwari, where 200-300 commuters are seen to board each train. By skipping Jogeshwari, the official said, WR would have been able to create a path to run additional trains from Virar, whose commuters require more services due to overcrowding in the belt beyond Borivli.
 
 There were protests on October 2 and on Tuesday too, commuters stepped up their agitation, but suburban services were not affected. 
 
 
