THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The department of tourism still considers Kerala as God's Own Country. But the chief minister has enough reasons to say that it has become a  . 

 During the question hour on Tuesday, chief minister   drew the attention of the assembly to the highly-polluted rivers of Kerala. The water bodies are getting accumulated with all sort of waste and garbage, he said.
 
 Highlighting the seriousness of the issue, Vijayan said the biggest threat was from the dumping of human waste into rivers.
 
  "This has affected the sources of drinking water, besides posing a threat to health," he said. 
 
 The chief minister's observation came at a time when Kerala has been facing the threat of the biggest drought in more than a century.
 
 Urging the local bodies to initiate plans to save the rivers and drinking water sources, Vijayan said the focus should now be on the treatment of human waste. "Each local body should put in place a centralized waste treatment plant," he said.
 
 The chief minister also assured the assembly that the government had taken steps to prevent e-waste from other countries being dumped in Kerala. "The government will take action against the agencies involved in the shipment of e-waste," Vijayan said.
 
 Reiterating that the government was against those who blindly oppose development projects, the chief minister clarified that the administration was not against environmentalists.
 
 "Other than environmentalists, there is a group that comes in the way of all development projects that would benefit the state," he said.
 
 The government has been pushing for the 163-megawatt hydro power project across the Chalakkudy river in Athirappilly, despite opposition from several quarters, including the CPI, the second largest constituent in the LDF. The Athirappilly plan has been included in the list of 15 projects that the   would be implementing.
 
 Meanwhile, the   report on the Western Ghats came up in the house once again with P T Thomas of the   urging the government to hold a discussion.
 
 The chief minister, however, said the report could not be implemented without taking into account the apprehensions of the general public.
 
 "No one is against the protection of the Western Ghats but it cannot be made at the cost of the livelihood of the people," Vijayan said.
 
