Vadodara: Ever heard of the head hunters, who beheaded their enemies for land and power, and bring back their skulls as a mark of victory? A tribe that is verge of extinction was, at on time, one of the fiercest fighters and sported their enemies’ skulls in their village.  Though they stay in far-off land in a remote village on India-Myanmar border in Nagaland, vivid images of the last persons surviving of the Konyak tribe have been captured by a city-based photographer Fanil Pandya.  He stayed with the tribe for some days but photographing them wasn’t an easy task as they don’t easily allow outsiders an entry in their village. “I had to first get permit to visit their village ‘Longwa’ and then winning their trust was another important task. In the beginning I was scared as Konyaks have a very fierce reputation. But as days passed by, I realized that they were extremely social people. Only then I was allowed to take out my camera,” Pandya told TOI. He had to take a translator along for communicating with the tribesmen. As Pandya began interacting with them, he learnt that they haven’t beheaded any enemy in last five decades. They even stopped the practice of hanging heads of their enemies on the walls of m rung (communal houses) as they are not allowed to do it now. Konyaks now hang skulls of animals that they kill to feed their families. “They are aware of their brutal past but were not ashamed of it as they still believe that head hunting is better than what armies of many countries are doing these days,” Pandya, who visited Longwa in November 2015 and December last year, said.  “Beheading is better than killing thousands of innocent people. What we did was better than what many governments now are doing in some parts of the world. We knew our enemy and we knew why we were going to behead them, but most of the young men in army don't even know the cause of the war that they are fighting in,” 80-year-old Wangyel, a Konyak, told Pandya. A three-day exhibition of the rare photographs of Konyaks organized at fine arts faculty of M S University will end on Thursday.  “I want to photograph the dying tribes across the world before they disappear. This exhibition will also travel to other countries soon as I want more people to learn about such tribes,” Pandya said.