UDAIPUR: Residents of a remote   in south Rajasthan observe a tradition of marrying two teenage boys to each other as part of  .
The entire village witnesses the unique marriage and the grand procession 'Binola' that marks the wedding. Residents of Badodiya village in Banswara district have been following the practice for decades now on the eve of Holi.
 
 However the marriage is not official with the newly weds returning to normal life the very next day. They merely enjoy the special treatment conferred on them during the rituals.
 
 “The rituals are conducted by a group of people led by the village headman himself and the group is called 'Geriya' in local dialect. The men set out in search of eligible boys who have not undergone the `yagopaveet sanskar' (a Hindu tradition wherein Brahmins wear thin consecrated cord called Janaeu).
 
 “As per the ritual, the bri de and groom should compulsorily be minor boys who aren't married,“ says  , a scholar who has done research in unique Holi traditions prevalent across Rajasthan. “It is a thrilling experience as all the boys lock themselves inside their homes when they come to know that the Geriya is out on a search. The first eligible boy the group manages to find, becomes the groom and the second one the bride. The duo is then brought to the village chowk at the   temple,“ Sharma says.
 
 A proper `lagan mandap' typical of traditional weddings is set up. A team member acts as the pandit and solemnizes the marriage, observing the complete rituals of Saptapadi (seven pheras) and the exchange of garlands between the couple. The villagers sing marriage songs and bless the couple. Later a procession is taken out and a special sweet made of coconut and sugar is distributed amongst the locals.The ritual is not taken seriously, although it has become an integral part of Holi celebrations in the village. The purpose is to bring harmony between the families of the “bride“ and “groom“ as a special bond is created.After the marriage is solemnized, the two families do not engage in any conflict.
 
 “Villagers do not oppose the custom and anyone who does, has to face the consequences. The Panch pronounce a boycott and social relations with the family are severed,“ Sharma explains.
 
