JODHPUR: The   filed   in the court against the five accused of the   on Monday. The chargesheet has pointed out gross violation of the UGC Regulations and university Ordinance No. 317 in recruiting the ineligible and incompetent candidates.

 Not just this, the accused, according to the chargesheet tampered and misinterpreted the rules, hid the results, avoided listings and influenced and pressurized the subject experts from different places as interviewers.
 
 Terming this entire recruitment exercise ‘a big conspiracy’, the chargesheet stated that the accused tried to take full control of the entire process, overlooking the rules brazenly. Besides there were few who though did not get involved in these practices but kept silent on it despite being aware of the wrong doings. 
 
 Holding the then vice-chancellor B S Rajpurohit, most responsible for the irregularities, who kept even the governor in the dark with regard to amended eligibility conditions for assistant professors, the ACB has found that he did not discharge his responsibility well and instead connived with others to make wrong selections.
 
 Referring to the former   and the then syndicate member Jugal Kabra, it said that he was close to the then chief minister   and influenced the entire recruitment process the most. It was mentioned by Rajpurohit himself as per the statements of some witnesses.
 
 The 56-page long chargesheet stated that experts and those who dissented were influenced and threatened to remain silent under political pressure.
 
 Referring to other accused professors D S Khinchi, D S Chundawat and S S Sharma, the chargesheet said that Khinchi connived with Rajpurohit as the main conspirator with respect to the ordinance, and the rest two as legal advisor and government representatives respectively, involved themselves in the selection of ineligible candidates.
 
 SP (ACB) Ajay Pal Lamba said that about 100 candidates on an average were interviewed in a single day in a 10-hour session and no list of these candidates as well as their marks was prepared by the scrutiny committee, which is a clear indication that no transparency was maintained in the process.
 
 “Not only this, the documents demanded by the ACB for investigation were either found to be misplaced, tampered or over-written pointing to irregularities,” he said. 
 
 The ACB has so far arrested seven persons in the case including P S Chundawat of M S University of Baroda and is yet to complete investigation against 64 accused including the heads, deans and beneficiaries in the scam.
 
 
