Are you applying for a  ? Chances are you’ll have to undergo a  , which could take days even months. However, the long wait will soon come to an end as   has adopted information technology to make   and the citizens. The police department has launched an e-police verification system that can complete 36,000 verifications in a couple of days; earlier system of manual verification took 3 to 4 months.

 The police department teamed up with a private IT services company under the e-Guj Cop project and recently commenced the e-verification process. Every year the government recruits lakhs of candidates for which police verification is mandatory. Even, some private sector companies go for it. Earlier, the candidates’ data was sent to SCRB who then forwarded it to district police for physical verification.
 
 Superintendent of Police, State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB), Gandhinagar, Ashok Yadav, said “Police verification is mandatory for every candidate who is recruited in the government. Even private sector can avail of this facility if they so desire. Earlier, the police verification was conducted physically after candidates filed up forms. Cops were sent to residential address and criminal history checked at respective police station. The process took forever, effectively delaying the recruitment process.
 
 But, under   we have decided to use our digitised crimes and criminal database, collated from 2004 till 2017.” Yadav added, “Recently the home department had completed recruitment of around 25,000 Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) jawans in Gujarat police. After collecting the data we crosschecked their information with our criminal data. We used software developed by the private company and verified 25,000 LRD candidates and even added another 11,000 candidates to it. ”
 
 Centre to adopt E-Guj cop project
 
 According to a senior police officer, “The Union Government is also planning to adopt e-Guj Cop Project and the e-police verification system across all states. Data collation is a time consuming process in the initial stage but once done the verification process becomes quick and easy.”
 
