PUNE: With the joy of the ongoing holiday season comes the scare of burglaries as incidents of   break-in have peaked in the city. 

 Two days after the burglary attempts in six apartments in different housing societies of Aundh, the suspects struck again in Sangvi and Kothrud and fled with cash and gold ornaments collectively worth Rs 6.88 lakh.
 
 Dinesh Kamble (29), a software engineer working at a Hinjewadi-based IT giant, lodged a complaint with the Sangvi police on Tuesday, when he found that his flat at Ashu Apartments in the Old Sangvi was burgled on Tuesday afternoon. The suspects stole Rs 10,000 and gold ornaments worth Rs 4.18 lakh from Kamble’s flat.
 
 Sangvi police sub-inspector VS Misal, who is probing the case, told TOI that Kamble, his wife and parents stay in old Sangvi. “On Tuesday morning Kamble, his wife and his father went out for work,” he said.
 
 Misal said around 2.30pm, Kamble’s mother locked the house and went to meet her daughter. “When she returned home after 15 minutes, she found the lock of the door broken,” he said. The suspects broke two cupboards in the flat and got away with the valuables and cash. 
 
 “The society does not have a watchman. The society members had appointed a laundryman, who runs his shop in front the building, to do small chores like filling water tanks. He was at his shop, when the incident happened,” Misal said.
 
 “There are no CCTVm cameras in the society or in the adjacent areas. We are investigating the matter,” he added. 
 
 In Kothrud, the neighbours of Nilesh More, a resident of Kamdhenu Siddhi Apartments in Mahatma Society, who is currently on a vacation, noticed the broken locks of his flat on Tuesday morning and alerted his relative Manish Devgaonkar. 
 
 “When Devgaonkar reached More’s flat, he found the suspects stole gold ornaments worth Rs 2.70 lakh from the flat,” said Raghunath Phuge, senior inspector of Kothrud police. Phuge said the society has two watchmen. “Both of them were sleeping when the suspects entered the building in the early hours of Tuesday,” he said.
 
 An officer from the crime branch told TOI that in most house  , safety doors are absent and the locks of the main door can be broken easily.
 
 He advised residents to use good quality locks and to install an additional safety door.
 
 Citing a case registered with the Chatushrungi police, he said, “In many cases the security guards tip-off the burglars to help them.” He added, “It is necessary for housing societies to get the security guards’ background checked by the police before appointing them.”
 
 The police have intensified the patrolling in the city at night, the officer said.
 
