MUMBAI: It took six months for the state government to send a written communication to the   about lease conditions for the mayor’s bungalow at Dadar, to build a  . The government issued a related notification in January, but communicated the   and conditions to the BMC only on July 6. The delay puts a question mark on the government’s ease of doing business initiative, where the focus is on speeding up various government permissions and simplifying processes.

 On Thursday, the civic body received a written order from the government, authorizing it to allot the mayor’s bungalow to the trust for the memorial on a 30-year lease, for a nominal rent of Re 1. It also said the BMC should take the heritage committee’s approval before making any changes to the bungalow and Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance to construct any structure on the sea-facing plot around the bungalow spread across 11,551 sq m (2.8 acre). 
 
 Earlier,   chief   had demanded the mayor’s bungalow be allotted for a memorial to his father, late Bal Thackeray. The state government appointed a committee under then chief secretary Swadhin Kshatriya to find a suitable plot for the memorial. The committee visited several places and zeroed in on the bungalow. The government then formed an 11-member trust which included Thackeray’s grandson Aaditya and Sena leader Subhash Desai, to finalize the design for the memorial.
 
 Since the ground-plus-one bungalow is a heritage structure, the trust can make internal changes to it after obtaining necessary permissions. It may also build a structure in the premises for which it will need CRZ approval.
 
 The BMC has requested the government to change the plot’s reservation status from green zone (no construction allowed) to ‘Bal Thackeray Memorial’ which will enable new construction inside the premises. “We are awaiting the government’s approval to change the land title after which we will enter into an agreement with the trust allotting them the plot for memorial ” said a senior civic official.
 
 Meanwhile, the civic authority is yet to find any alternate accommodation for mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, who will have to vacate the Dadar bungalow once it is allotted to the trust. The BMC had selected a bungalow inside Byculla zoo for the mayor, but he refused to shift there stating the area is in a silence zone and vehicle movement of his visitors may disturb the zoo animals.
 
 
