MUMBAI: He is currently one of the most destructive batsmen in international cricket and holds several records in all three formats of the game.  , however, was a hopeless romantic while growing up. The South African marauder, on Tuesday, revealed how he was fond of writing and how he penned several love letters to the girls he loved in his school as a teenager. "I have a few memories of writing back in the day when I was growing up, when I was in school and learnt to write. The minute I started writing, I am a bit of a romantic, so every girl that I loved at school, I would write a letter," de Villiers recalled at an event here on Tuesday.

 But the 33-year-old, who never shies away from bullying bowlers, developed cold feet when it came to handing over the letters to the girls he had a crush on. "The problem was that it (the letters) was never given to them. I would go back home with the letter, with a lot of love in there, and I would climb to the roof of our house and I would hide the letter. I think I must have hidden around 25-30 letters by the time I finished my schooling."
 
 The South African genius admitted that he was scared to give those letters to the girls in school back then, but said he is using that experience to please the love of his life -his wife now.
 
 "I am a bit older now and have finally got married, I have decided to use all that experience to write letters to my wife. Just the other day, when she left from India to go back to South Africa, I slipped a little letter into her passport and I knew that when she got to the airport she would read it. I got a text message from her later to let me know how much that meant to her," he said with a lot of pride.
 
 The   have had a hopeless tenth season of the  , and de Villiers said the failures had taught him and his team some valuable lessons.
 
 "Unfortunately, this year we haven't played as well as desired to, but, I think there are some valuable lessons we have learnt throughout the season."
 
