NEW DELHI: Milling around Haldiram’s in Connaught  , they look like a normal gaggle of Delhiites out to have some fun. But they actually aren’t. They are, in fact, students from  , now in India on an exchange visit with their teachers.

 Their venture into “enemy territory” has been facilitated by NGO Routes 2 Roots. Tina Vachani, general secretary of the NGO, said schools and students from either side of the border were selected well in advance of the trips. Over the course of a year, the chosen students wrote letters to their “pen pals” in India and  , talked about festivals, food and common cultural figures. They even shared family histories, if they had grandparents with memories of life on the other side of the border.
 
 “Usually, when we first pitch the idea in schools, very few students show any interest,” disclosed Rakesh Gupta, founder of the initiative. “But by the end of the year, all of them want to visit the neighbouring country.” 
 
 The current trip, which was supposed to have taken place in September, had been put off after the Indian Army’s surgical strikes in Pakistan territory. “We’ve worked with 17,000 children over the past few years. Even if 20% of them end up in decision-making positions, or if they speak about their neighbours, they will have a better understanding of the other side,” said Gupta. He added that this was not a track-2 diplomacy technique, just people-to-people contact.
 
 Having visited   Place, Raisina Hill and Qutab Minar in the capital, the similarities between the two countries are not lost on the students. “Delhi is just like Lahore,” declared Ashraf Shahzad. In fact, Delhi's IPL franchise, Delhi Daredevils, has a fan in Musa Chattha, a 15-year-old cricket enthusiast. And while he pronounces Pakistani street food spicier after chaat at Haldiram’s, he thinks it would be super to be able to watch his favourite IPL team play.
 
 The group also visited the Golden Temple at Amritsar, and enjoyed a laugh at the choreographed belligerence at the Wagah border. Perhaps recalling the acted arrogance of the border guards, the Pakistani visitors talk of similar stances on the border-conflicts. Rubina Zahir, principal of the Lahore Grammar School, said, “It’s all a hype. When there’s an incident, there is some outrage, but it is very fleeting.” She added that ordinary people didn’t share the hard attitude of government leaders but want to be able to mingle with Indians.
 
 Mina Siddiqi, another principal who was initially apprehensive about the crossover, also stated, “Right from the immigration desk, people were warm and friendly. All this tension is only between the governments and not between people.”
 
 But don’t school texts teach these budding citizens about the abyss between the two countries? “Our history books are very neutral,” claimed Chattha. He is curious to see what Indian counterparts learn, for history textbooks in both the nations often mirror their version of historical events — they highlight or downplay incidents like the 1857 war according to their own ideological purposes, and portray figures like Gandhi and Jinnah differently.
 
 The visitors want to bust the misconceptions about Pakistan. “After 9/11, we have had troubles. We have our extremists, you have yours, the UK and the US and many nations have theirs. But most people aren’t like that,” proclaimed Zahir. She touched a chord in the heart of Bharati Iyer at the next table, and the student of Mumbai's Pragnya Bodhini school nodded vigorously in agreement.
 
 Over time, perhaps the cultural links between the once fellow citizens have diminished. For you ask about movies and 13-year-old Dua Fatima shrugs at the idea of Bollywood. The culture that connects these students with their Indian counterparts is, in fact, Hollywood, fast food and videogames.
 
 
