After bringing   back from the precipice, the budget carrier's chairman 
  is looking to expand its wings further. He spoke to TOI on his plans for long-haul budget flights,airport infrastructure crunch and also if a move to privatise   in its current form will get any takers.
Excerpts:
 
 
 
 We welcome the government's decision to reduce tax on economy class seats from 6% to 5%. This move will help boost   travel and is in line with the government's aim to make flying more affordable for the masses.
 
 
 
 AI is the national carrier and has immense value. But it has amassive mountain of debt, as the airline chairman (Ashwani Lohani) also says. The debt (almost Rs 50,000 crore) makes it completely unviable. There is a massive working capital debt, which is very difficult to repay. In its current form, it does not appear to be a viable proposition.
 
 
 
 That is hypothetical. One will have to look at finally what is on offer. There is no doubt AI is a big brand and has great assets as well.
 
 
 
 It is worth a shot. India is the fastest growing aviation market in the world. Why should we send our flyers out on foreign carriers which take our traffic to their hubs and fly them to rest of the world from there? What works in India is low-cost, and offer lowest possible fares and still make money. This is a model we need to explore for long-haul too.
 
 
 
 We are looking at starting the service by this winter. Two Boeing 787 Dreamliners will be leased and we may fly to cities in the UK, like Birmingham or London, where we can look beyond Heathrow. A return fare of Rs 25,000-30,000 for these sectors will have great demand.
 
 
 
 Inherently, the demand is very strong. As the economy and income grow, more and more people will want to travel by air. If oil prices and fares remain moderate, then there will be growth. The question is can infrastructure keep up? The RCS (Regional Connectivity Scheme) is bringing more airports into the system and adding to capacity. But a huge amount of work needs to be done. Building of airport capacity has to be one of the top most priorities of the government along with reducing cost for aviation.
 
 
 
 Tremendous growth is happening beyond Delhi and Mumbai, in tier-2 and -3 cities.A lot of those sectors are doing very well. But Delhi and Mumbai are massive challenges. Even if you fly to Gorakhpur, it needs to be connected to Delhi. Hundreds of planes are on order. Our airport infrastructure is not ready to support the growth.
 
 
 
 So far, there is no decision on that. This year prices are higher than last year and there is significant competition. It is a year of challenges. We will see what happens.
 
 
 
 We are starting a new project called Spice Style as our retail venture to enhance revenue.It will be both an on-board and online sale of travel products from next month. Most online websites offer completely unbranded or expensive branded. There is a space for something in between. There is a certain quality and price point associated with SpiceJet brand. That is the strength of Spice Style. We will have paid Wi-Fi on board.
 
