NEW DELHI: Suspended   member   today alleged that party leaders close to chief   concealed donations from the public, lied to the   (EC) and laundered money using 16 shell companies.

 "I have the papers to prove multiple scams," Mishra said at the beginning of the press conference. Towards the end of the conference Mishra said he would "drag Kejriwal out of his chair" and "then drag him to jail." And at the end, he appeared to have fainted as he was displaying some "dodgy" cheques to the media. He was taken to hospital.
 
 Mishra said he has been on a 
  ; today is the fifth day. 
 
  
  
 Later, Mishra's condition was said to not be serious. Doctors told TOI he was low on sugar and suffering from dehydration due to his hunger strike. The hospital administered fluids to help Mishra recover.
 
 At the start of the media conference, the 
  showed a presentation - without official bank documentation - that he claimed included account information of the party. 
 
 He alleged a huge discrepancy in 2013-2014 and 2015-2016 between the amounts AAP has in the bank, what it declared to the EC and what it made public on its website.
 
  
  
 
 Mishra alleged that AAP's account had Rs 45 crore in 2013 -2014, its website showed Rs 19 crore and the EC was told only about Rs 9 crore. In 2014-2015, he said AAP had Rs 65 crore in the bank, told the EC about Rs 32 crore and on its web site showed just Rs 27 crore.
 
 "I will go to CBI with the evidence. After all this is investigated, he will go straight to jail," Mishra said referring to Delhi chief minister Kejriwal. 
 
 The suspended AAP member also said 16 shell companies managed by AAP MLA   made donations to the party. "All donations were made at midnight, January 20, 2014," Mishra further alleged.
 
 Mishra's first shocking allegations came exactly a week ago, when he claimed to have witnessed Delhi chief minister 
  , in a transaction Mishra implied was questionable.
 
 Yesterday, he indicated he would present a new set of allegations today.
 
 "I will put some documents in front of the nation. After that, Arvind Kejriwal will not have the moral strength to continue as chief minister and people will stop having trust in him. That is why I have come here to seek blessings of Hanumanji to give me strength," he said after a visit to a temple here.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
