NEW DELHI: Frequent snags, especially on the Blue line, have prompted Delhi   chief Mangu Singh to personally review maintenance of the network and issue a series of instructions. On Sunday,   came out with a list of measures that it is taking to avoid recurrence of snags.

 Anuj Dayal, chief spokesperson, DMRC, said that due to higher frequency of snags, the MD took stock of “the entire maintenance requirements”. Dayal added that the upshot of the meeting was not only a renewed focus on the primary trouble area — signalling — but also other technical issues that had been impacting the efficiency of the 213km network. A few days ago, a Metro official had that the problems could not be prevented. He had said there could never be any Metro system with zero snags.
 
 To start with, Metro is hoping to bring down “disturbances” on Blue line (Dwarka sector 21-Noida/Vaishali) with the installation of a new device. Dayal said: “Axle counters, which detect entry and exit of trains and can tell if the section is clear for another train, are likely to be installed at all originating points on Blue line.” These will be installed at Dwarka, Dwarka sector 21, Yamuna Bank, Noida City Centre and Vaishali. “This will help minimise disturbances.” 
 
 That’s not all. Delhi Metro also plans to get spare modules of the ATC card, which has been failing frequently. ATC, or the automatic train control system, is basically a speed control mechanism. Dayal said, “The ATC on-board power cards have failed leading to disruptions. The module failing the card has been identified and spare modules are being procured.” Another part of the hardware, TIC (train interface computer) cards, which have also witnessed a high intermittent failure rate, will be replaced within the next six months, added Dayal.
 
 Another frequent problem with the network — on-track circuits — will also be addressed. “There are a number of thefts of copper-made cables along the network. To stop this, steel cables have been installed at all theft-prone areas,” said Dayal.   circuits are used to detect the absence of a train on a track, and used to control signals. “High reliability relay boards are being provided in the track circuit system for greater efficiency,” said Dayal, adding that the relay boards at Noida City Centre, Vaishali and Dwarka sector 21 have already been replaced. “We are currently replacing the relay boards at Dwarka and Yamuna Bank,” he added.
 
 “Some disruptions have taken place due to failure of the central ATS for Blue line, due to which train IDs have been lost and delays have occurred. To handle this issue, arrangement of a backup central ATS on standby mode is being planned,” said Dayal. ATS is the automatic train supervision system that helps Metro control operations of trains and minimise the effect of train delays. 
 
 Steps that have already been taken include ramping up the rolling stock and traction, that is, overhead electrification. “In rolling stock, hardware- and software-related modifications have been completed in 175 trains and maintenance audits done in 56. An action plan is being prepared based on the experiences of the past,” said Dayal.
 
 
