ALWAR:   always impress  , but this time it was the other way round.   in   are copying film stars to   (hafta wasooli).

 Alwar police on Monday busted a gang of goons, who would terrorise people at gunpoint and loot money. The gang was headed by one Gajraj, also known as Gajju Dada. The police have arrested two sharp shooters of Gajju’s gang, but, Gajju is still at large. Beside, one more person has also been arrested for allegedly helping gangsters.
 
 “Bol main kaun (tell me, who am I),” was a common question Gajraj asked businessmen at gunpoint before taking away their money and belongings. Gajraj would use the phrase “Bol main kaun”, which was commonly used by actor Sanjay Dutt in the movie ‘Khalnayak’.
 
 He would often ask his “victims” to sing songs from ‘Khalnayak’ film at gunpoint. Frightened victims had no option but to sing songs. Police said Gajraj derives great pleasure from the fact that his victims sing songs at gunpoint and also to hear the answer to his ‘Bol main kaun’. The frightened victims would then reply in fear, “Ji Ga.. Ga.. Gajju dada.”
 
 The police told TOI that it is a notorious gang that was involved not only in petty crimes such as loot and extortion but was also involved in murders of businessmen.
 
 Sidhant Sharma, deputy superintendent of police (Bhiwadi), said that on February 10, Gajju gang had killed a medical salesman under Phoolbagh police station area. The gang had tried to commit a similar crime two days before the incident of Phoolbagh. But, they failed in their efforts. After such incidents were reported in the area, the people of the area protested and blocked National Highway-71B. The police had announced a reward of Rs 5,000 on the arrest of the accused gangsters.
 
 The police identified the gangsters on the basis of CCTV footage when the salesman was killed on February 10. After the incident happened, the police had assigned the job to nab the culprits to four police stations. The police raided several places but they could manage to arrest the two accused only on Monday.
 
 The two arrested sharp shooters are Charan Singh (19) and Manjeet Singh (19). Besides, one 50-year-old Gangadhar Gurjar has also been arrested for giving them protection.
 
 The police said that they were arrested from Kishangarh Bas of Rohtak in Haryana. They had allegedly killed the salesman as it was a matter related to hafta wasooli (extortion).
 
 
