Nagpur: With the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) giving final clearance to the Gorewada international zoo, the master plan too has been revised and sent for approval of Central Zoo Authority (CZA).

 The Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the MoEFCC had granted Stage-II forest clearance (564 hectares) to the project last month.
 
 Though clearance has been granted for diversion of 564 hectare forest land, the state government has been asked to ensure that only 15% of the diverted area (79.07 hectares) should be utilized for non-forestry activities. The remaining area will act as green zone around these attractions.
 
 Accordingly, a new master plan has been was prepared by Gorewada consultant Ashfaque Ahmed Consultancy Services Private Limited (AACSPL) on July 3.
 
 Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) sources told TOI, “The plan has been submitted to the CZA for approval, which is expected soon. However, owing to rainy season, physical work will start after monsoon.”
 
 As per the new plan, night safari, which was to come up in 60 hectares on the right side of the Katol Road, has been shifted on the left side while going to Katol. The area of night safari has been curtailed to 45 hectares.
 
 Night safari was the only attraction that was to come up on the right side as per the earlier plan. Now, only rescue centre and jungle safari is situated on the right side.
 
 “All the zoo attractions will be situated on the left side of the road. This will help maintain sanctity of the Gorewada Lake on the right side, which supplies drinking water to the city,” they said.
 
 As per the July 3 plan, Indian Safari will be in 145 hectares, followed by leopard, sloth bear, lion and tiger safari each in 25 hectare, herbivore composite safari (40 hectare), night safari (45 hectare), African safari (90 hectare), bio-park (30 hectare), bird park (7 hectare), reservoir (20 hectare), entrance plaza (16.5 hectare) among other attractions.
 
 “Of the above attractions, designs of Indian safari has already got clearance. The work will start after rainy season. A Kolhapur-based firm has already been shortlisted for constructing Indian safari and a Nagpur-based firm for reservoir,” officials said.
 
 Top sources said, among other things, the state government is also in talks with Essel World to form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) through a joint venture partner (JVP), though this will be done through tendering process.
 
 The JVP is to be set up under public private partnership (PPP) mode of financing with government stake at 51%. The state government also envisages to make viability gap funding (VGF) to the extent of Rs100 crore to start the project.
 
 
