NEW DELHI: Concern over judiciary “overstepping” its ambit resonated in   on Wednesday with the government facing irate MPs, including those from BJP, who demanded to know the Centre’s views on  . 

 Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s response to a question on   that there was only so much that the government could do and that the judiciary was an independent entity did not satisfy BJP MP Sanjay Jaiswal.
 
 Jaiswal observed that he had always heard that the judiciary was independent but had also been schooled that Parliament was to make laws. How was it, he asked, the apex court was getting into running cricket and the medical council. With judicial “overreach” a raw nerve for the political class that is often at the recieving end, he immediately found support in the House. Prasad said he had nothing to say on the issue.
 
 Prasad did, however, state that the principle of 'separation of power’ laid down in the Constitution was binding as much on the judiciary as on the legislature and executive. The assertion came after MPs spoke of the   “overstepping" its jurisdiction to get into law-making domain through some of its judgements. 
 
 Responding to Jaiswal’s question, Prasad said, "Parliament to enact; Executive to formulate and execute and Judiciary to interpret. In this light, if Separation of Power principle is binding on all, I am sorry to say that it is equally binding on the judiciary,” he stated.
 
 Prasad also referred to the government’s reservations on the Supreme Court’s scrapping of the National Judicial Appointments Commission Act, passed earlier by the government to end the collegium system of judges appointing judges. He noted that the only reasoning given by SC was that since law minister would be involved in the appointment process, a judge so appointed may not be impartial. He wondered why the Prime Minister, who works through his ministers, has a key role in appointment of the President, Vice-President, CVC, CEC and the three Armed forces chiefs and also possesses the nuclear button, “cannot be trusted to appoint a fair judge through the law minister”.
 
 To a question on live telecast of court proceedings, Prasad said online transmission will create a "psychological pressure" but there were also "logistical problems” involved as there were 19,000 courts across the country.
 
 
