Villagers of the Vaizawado hamlet in Shristhal, Canacona, marked the Hindu new year of   and the end of Shigmo with a replica of the Shisharanni ritual that is traditional to the Mallikarjun temples of Canacona’s Gaondongari, Shristhal and Ave.

 Traditionally, Shisharanni, which loosely translated means cooking on the head, is a biennial observance. However, in Vaizawado of Shristhal, this ritual is observed on the occasion of  , while at the Mallikarjun temples of Goa’s southernmost taluka, it is a part of the Shigmo festival. 
 
 “Vaizawado’s Dinya zatra is unique. The celebration involves the welcoming of the new year with folk dances and rituals in the most traditional etiquettes and behavioural patterns,” says Devidas Gaonkar, a tribal researcher from Cotigao. 
 
 The Vaizawado Velips along with the Mhala, Asalkar and Gulekar Velips are predominantly a tribal community that follow the agrarian way of life. They are devotees of the Mallikarjun temple of Shristhal. 
 
 Prior to the festivities, the doors of every house in the hamlet are thrown open in welcome and guests are served a traditional vegetarian fare.
 
 For the celebration, young bachelors of the community worship a decorated stick of the Leea indica shrub, which is locally referred to as ‘dinya’ or ‘jinea’, thus explaining the etymology of the name ‘Dinya zatra’. The stick is adorned with the ‘husgi’ (Calycopteris floribunda) flowers and tender leaves of the ‘kosamb’ (Schleichera oleosa) tree. The leaves and flowers are secured in place with the fibres of ‘kevan’ (Helicteres isora). Later the youth performs a dance in from of the shrine of   holding this stick in their hands. The music is played on the traditional instruments of ‘dhol’, ‘taso’ and ‘zanghat’.
 
 After this, the group proceeds in procession to traditionally predesignated places to perform the dance. A type of local-martial-arts-cum-dance performance is also put up to the tune of folk music. In this, three people brandish wooden swords around their body as a symbolic depiction of their bravery. After repeating the act several times, the entire group moves to the site where the Shisharanni ritual is held.
 
 In the entire celebration, female participation is focused on pre-pubescent girls, who are supposed to light a ‘divja’ (lamp) made from cow dung and decorated with clam shells. 
 
 At the site, which is a field, all the decorated sticks are driven into the ground and the Shisharanni ritual then follows. 
 
 “Three men lie on the ground with their heads touching each other. An earthen pot with rice and water is balanced between their heads and a fire is lit beneath the pot. Once the rice is cooked, it is sprinkled in different directions by the villagers,” says Milind Velip of Vaizawado.
 
 Folk researcher Pandurang Phaldesai explains that the   of Shisharanni is to recall the genocide of a Brahmin agriculture community, the Habbus, hundreds of years ago. “The tradition may have been started in order to appease the spirits of those killed,” he says.
 
 
