CHENNAI: The   on Thursday nabbed a 35-year-old man who used cloned   and struck only before and after midnight to siphon lakhs of rupees from the accounts of card holders. Police said the arrested man, Z Ajaz, was part of a gang which, in connivance with several store owners, used a software to get from swipe machines card holders’ details, including the PIN.

 A dent in his vehicle caught by a   at an ATM booth helped police nab Ajaz.
 
 Police said a search was launched for the suspect based on at least 20 complaints from people in Kotturpuram Abiramapuram, Secretariat colony and Anna Salai about money being lost from their accounts.
 
 A special team headed by Kotturpuram assistant commissioner Arul Santhoshamuthu, sub-inspector Parthasarathy and constable R Saravana Kumar checked CCTV footage that showed a suspect wearing a cap going on a TVS Wego (moped) to different ATMs in Purasaiwalkam, Ice House, Royapettah and Chepauk to withdraw cash around the same time. A dent on the front wheel guard of the vehicle provided the other clue.
 
 “He used to withdraw cash after 11.45pm and after midnight as he could withdraw the following day’s maximum limit too,” said a police officer.
 
 The team members during a search in Chepauk spotted Ajaz on the vehicle with a dent. On the pretext of enquiring about beat books, they questioned him and took him into custody. 
 
 Interrogations revelaed that he was accomplice of a man named Iqbal who was involved in several ATM fraud cases. Ajaz told police that he worked for Iqbal on a commission basis which ranged from Rs 5000 to Rs 10,000 depending on the amount he was able to withdraw. He disclosed that the gang obtained swiping machines from several stores and installed a software that helped disgorge the details of the victims, including the vital personal identification number (PIN). Using these details they cloned cards, each taking at least 15 days, and withdrew cash.
 
 Iqbal, Ajaz told police, would train him and other members of the gang in the various techniques in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Maharashtra. Mylapore deputy commissioner Saravanan has commeded the special team members for their tedious investigation that helped bust the racket.
 
