LUCKNOW:   has all but won the power struggle in  , getting the better of some of India’s wiliest politicians, including his father,  . How did the son come out on top? By sending a message that he puts party above family, and by outmanoeuvring his older, crafty opponents.
 
  ET spoke to a large number of   leaders for this story. Most spoke off record.
  
  
 
  The last day of last year saw Akhilesh definitively winning the intra-party battle. He had convened a meeting of party MLAs. The chief minister had been expelled from the party a day earlier by his father and party president Mulayam. A constitutional crisis was developing in UP.
  
  The CM could have been required to prove majority on the floor of the house. But unknown to most, including those present at the meeting, 17 MLAs of Bahujan Samaj Party and seven from Congress had reached out to Team Akhilesh.
  
  “They were willing to leave their parties and support Akhilesh. A few had even turned up at the MLA meet and were made to sit in a separate room,” said a minister close to the CM.
  
  But Akhilesh did not need the support. By the time the meeting ended, he had the support of 222 party MLAs — eighteen more than the number required to prove majority.
  
  At a meeting called by Mulayam and   on the same day, only eleven MLAs turned up. Shivpal had made excellent arrangements and the best caterers were hired, said a party MLA. But after waiting for a bit, the gates of his house were thrown   to people standing outside. They were told Shivpal would address them. “That way the food did not all go waste,” the MLA said.
  
  The night before the meeting, Shivpal made multiple calls to all party MLAs telling them to turn up, promising tickets on the spot to those who attended. “But most did not even talk to him or take his calls. The man who thought he controlled the party was not able to speak to his own MLAs. What could be more humiliating than that?” the MLA said.
  
  He added that if even 50 MLAs had turned up, the plan was to march to the governor’s house and get the state government dismissed.
  
  SP veterans pointed out that of the 5 MPs from the Yadav family, only Mulayam was against Akhilesh. If one excluded Dimple Yadav, Akhilesh’s wife, it still meant three cousins of the CM, who were SP MPs, supported him. That’s because, the veterans said, these family members knew Mulayam was being given “bad advice”.
  
  A party leader close to Akhilesh told ET that the December 31meeting was called in part because the CM knew that Mulayam had been taken by Amar Singh to meet “a leader from a big political rival of SP”. Mulayam had not been accompanied by his security team for that meeting. This showed swift action needed to be taken to prevent damage to SP, the leader said. And Akhilesh took that swift action, he added.
  
  
 
  How did the support for Akhilesh come around? Another close aide of the CM told ET that Akhilesh had been pushed to the corner when Shivpal Yadav announced the list of candidates in which Akhilesh’s core supporters — Arvind Singh Gope and Ram Gobind Chaudhery — were absent.
  
  “Arvind Singh Gope and Ram Gobind have won by huge margins and are big leaders. The message was only Shivpal loyalists would be entertained,” the person quoted above said.
  
  Akhilesh asked his father to reconsider. He released his own list shortly after, with all his loyalists on the list. “It was a masterstroke by the CM because the message that went out was that he could fight with his family for his supporters,” the person said.
  
  Of the over 200 MLAs that showed up at Akhilesh’s meet, 80 were those who had strong local political bases, the person said. “So the support is from the strongest quarters of the party.” This support also came because the chiefminister ensured that all the 150 people who were part of his Kranti Rath in 2012 were adjusted in the party or the government.
  
  “He doesn’t forget anyone who stands by him. Netaji has even forgotten people like Arvind Singh Gope and Ram Gobind Chaudhery who were instrumental in getting the SP to form the government in 2003,” the person added.
  
  
 
  SP leaders talk endlessly of Akhilesh’s tactical nous. At the SP meet on October 24 last year, Akhilesh’s head of security was told by Shivpal Yadav that the CM should not come because the situation was “dangerous”, a senior SP leader recalled.
  
  But the CM went, scotching the plan by the Shivpal camp to make a major announcement in Akhilesh’s absence. The November 3 Rath Yatra of the CM, which attracted a big crowd despite Shivpal warning MLAs not to participate, further consolidated the CM’s hold over the party.
  
   , Akhilesh loyalist and strategist, recorded every detail of participation by leaders and legislators in the December 31 meeting and plans to do so for party events in January, too.
  
  This, another SP leader said, is to ensure “solid evidence” can be given to the Election Commission if the need arises.
  
  Akhilesh was told by his core group of advisers —Chaudhery, Gope, Abhishek Mishra, Shailendra Yadav —to take the “difficult but necessary step” of taking control of the party to prevent it from going away to conspirators.
  
  “Akhilesh is widely seen as Ajatshatru now – the man with no enemies. Netaji, on the other hand, has become Bindusar, the emperor who is making it difficult for his own son to claim the legacy that is rightfully his,” an SP MLA said.
  
  Akhilesh had told his party MLAs, a senior SP leader said, that he will win this election and it will be a gift for his father. And that his father can then pick the chief minister. That statement, the leader said, showed a high degree of political maturity and practical nous.
  
  The focus is now shifting to alliances. The alliance with Congress and smaller parties is almost sealed, say senior party leaders. The young CM is now firmly in the saddle; there’s a new Netaji in Lucknow.
  
