MYSURU: Theatre owners in Mysuru have a reason to cheer. The city corporation will decide on allotting space at prominent public spots in the city where theatre owners will be allowed to display film   if a fresh memorandum is submitted.

 It’s been a decade that theatre owners and   distributors have been demanding that they be allowed to display movie posters at designated spots at prominent public places in the city. They had also submitted several memorandums to the corporation and the elected representatives.
 
 The demand, however, wasn’t entertained by the corporation which said it will deface the heritage city.
 
 Mayor M J Ravikumar has said that   will take a decision on allotting space for film posters at a few places in the city if theatre owners and distributors submit a fresh memorandum.
 
 Mysuru has around 20 single-screen theatres and two four-screen multiplexes.
 
 “We are submitting the memorandum from the time K N Chandrashekar was the municipal commissioner. He had told us to identify places in the city where display boards could be erected. We had identified the places but in the meantime the commissioner was transferred. After that there was no progress in the matter,” said Raja Ram MR, owner of Gayatri Talkies. 
 
 When CG Betsurmath was the municipal commissioner, he had taken strict action against those who displayed film posters. An audio company had displayed posters at the arch gate near KSRTC and few posters were pasted at Sri Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar Circle (Hardinge Circle) and near MG Road market. MCC had ordered them to remove the posters.
 
 Raja Ram said that earlier when a film had a major star cast, distributors from Bengaluru used to send 1,500 to 1,800 posters of different sizes for display in major areas in the city.
 
 “But after the ban on posters, we get a mere 8 to 10 posters of different sizes for display at theatre premises. We have asked for 3x5 feet or 4x8 feet display boards where two or more theatres can share their movie posters,” Raja Ram said, adding that “the information on film shows available on websites and in newspapers has eased the problem for the theatre owners.”
 
 
