NEW DELHI: Celebrating Kargil Vijay Diwas on campus in the presence of   and  ,   vice-chancellor   on Sunday requested the government to install a   in the university. 

  The tank would instil a "love for the Army" among   students, Kumar said at the celebrations, part of HRD ministry's Vijay Veerta Abhiyan. The event was attended by cricketer Gautam Gambhir and members of Veteran India, an organisation of Army veterans.. 
 
 The participants took out a 'Tiranga yatra', carrying a 2,200-foot Tricolour from Ganga dhaba to the convention centre.
 
 Pradhan said he was surprised by the change in JNU, where slogans like 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' were now being raised.
 
 Participants at the event included SC lawyer Monika Arora, Major General (retired) G D Bakshi and US-based author Rajeev Malhotra.
 
 Addressing the audience, which included family members of veterans and martyrs, Gautam Gambhir touched upon the freedom of speech debate that had engulfed JNU last year. "I believe in it (freedom of speech) but there are certain things, like the respect of the national flag which are non-negotiable. No one should comment against the army," the cricketer said.
 
 He also said that the youth of the country should be told about July 26 (Martyr's day) and its importance.
 
 Junior foreign minister V K Singh said, "India could never be invaded by an external force without the help of traitors. We should understand that if we are united, we cannot be defeated... our patriotism is shown only on August 15 and January 26."
 
 Addressing the audience, G D Bakshi proclaimed "victory over JNU", for which he gave all credit to the VC. "There are many forts like Jadavpur and Hyderabad university which our army will capture," he proclaimed.
 
 Warning the audience about an "internal war" in the country, author Rajeev Malhotra said the event at JNU was "much like a victory over Kargil. Every student has to be a Kshatriya in this internal war".
 
 The evening also saw song and dance performances and a gift ceremony for family members of martyrs. Head of the Veterans India, B K Mishra, commended JNU for holding the event and proclaimed, "We will create a situation where people will love the nation. And if they don't, we will force them to love it."
 
 
