PUDUCHERRY: Three   in the lone government medical college and hospital and 16 seats in three private medical colleges remained vacant after day two of the first round of counselling hosted by the centralized admission committee (Centac) in the Union territory of   on Sunday.

 The committee called 711 candidates for counselling on the second day. Seventy-six students attended the counselling and 45 of them were allotted seats in government and   based on merit, category, choice and availability of seats. The committee directed the students to join the colleges concerned by July 31 and deposit the fees with Centac by way of demand draft (drawn in favour of the concerned college) on or before July 28.
 
 The seats that fell vacant during the first round of counselling will be taken up during the second round in the respective category. The committee will announce the schedule for the second round of counselling shortly.
 
 The vacancy after the second day of the first round of counselling excludes eight seats blocked by the Madras high court after a section of students obtained an order in their favour for admission for the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 Justice T S Sivagnanam while directing secretary (health), secretary (higher education) and director (health and family welfare services) of Puducherry government to reserve five MBBS seats for the academic year 2017-18 observed, “Centac has taken up certain stringent measures to regulate the admission process following the intervention of the lt governor (Kiran Bedi)”.
 
 “The admission to the first year MBBS courses for the year 2017-18 has come under a scanner and at the intervention of the lt governor of Union territory of Puducherry, Centac has taken up a certain stringent measure to regulate the admission process,” the justice observed.
 
 In another order, justice K Ravichandra Babu directed the three authorities concerned to block three MBBS seats for the academic year 2017-18.
 
 Meanwhile, Centac has invited applications from non-resident Indian candidates for admission into MBBS and BDS courses for the academic year 2017-18. The candidates can download the applications from the committee’s website www.centaconline.in. The candidates must submit the filled in application forms on or before July 26. They must submit the hard copies of the applications by post before July 31.
 
