HYDERABAD:   was snapped to a government-run home for the blind over  , forcing dozens of inmates to spend all day without power. Worse, home authorities said none of the other 10 homes in the state have been able to pay power and   due to paucity of funds.

 While the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) said they were forced to stop power supply to the Government VH Men's Home, Moosarambagh after issuing multiple notices, the warden of home claimed they cannot the dues with the bare minimum budget they receive every year.
 
 “The home has to pay a total of '3.2 lakh to the  . They haven't cleared the dues in the past one year and we have issued   till date asking them to clear them,“ said A Muralidhar Rao Chary, assistant engineer, Malkapet.
 
 Home warden C Sunitha said she has paid a portion of the due amount last December.
 
 “This has become a routine now. Every time we disconnect the power, they come and give an undertaking saying that duess will be cleared and we restore the supply , but they never clear dues,“ said Chary. Sunitha on her part said they get funds every quarter. In the month of December when they got about '1.67 lakh, they paid ` 67,000 to the electricity department and another '1 lakh to the water board. “Now unless the government releases fund we don't have any money,“ she said, adding that the Men's Home has to pay another '10 lakh towards the water bill dues.
 
 “The budget that government allocates for us is not sufficient. If I have to clear all the dues and run the home, I need at least '20 lakh. Because of the government's indifference, the inmates are facing problems,“ Sunitha added.
 
 According to the warden, the current bill of the home ranges between '45, 000 to '50, 000 every month and the water bill comes up to '75, 000.
 
 Sunitha, who is also an incharge warden of Government Blind Girl's Hostel in the city, said that they have to pay another '1.75 lakh towards electricity bill and '30, 000 towards water bill for that particular hostel.
 
 “Not just our home, all the homes in the state are in the same condition as we have no funds. Unless the government allocates enough budget our problems will not be solved,“ she added.
 
 Later in the evening, the power department said they restored power to Moosarambagh home after the warden gave an undertaking.
 
