MUMBAI: Observing that though a   may not look  , it is necessary, the   on Tuesday expressed concern over what may happen if a fire breaks out in any of the multi-storeyed buildings on the narrow road leading to Raj Bhavan.   and Walkeshwar is home to several VIPs, including chief minister, governor and municipal commissioner, but the nearest fire station is at Gowalia Tank, nearly 3km away.

 “They (fire stations) may not look nice (or)...too sophisticated, but they are necessary,’’ said the court, while hearing a plea by the Malabar Hill Citizens’ Forum on the alleged encroachment by fire brigade at  . Last month, the Mumbai fire brigade took over a portion of Priyadarshani Park, built a temporary shelter and stationed a fire engine there to reduce response time to fire emergencies in nearby areas, including Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill and Peddar Road. 
 
 The forum’s advocate argued before a bench, headed by the chief justice, that the BMC is not complying with the HC order directing a status quo. “Firemen are sleeping there. There are unruly elements entering the park at night since it is open. They are using public facilities,” the advocate said. To the court’s query how the forum is affected, he replied, “They have cut trees, the walking track is ruined, a temporary shed is put up and people are living in the park.” 
 
 Senior advocate Joaquim Reis, representing BMC, said there is a reservation in the 1991 development plan for a fire station and a post office at the park. “There is also a reservation in the proposed DP. There is no fire station in the area, but they want us to shift,” he said.
 
 The bench said a fire station is necessary and asked if the forum’s problem is with the presence of the fire station or its staff in the park. The HC said there has to be reservation for a fire station and asked if any other site was available. The forum’s advocate said an adjoining vacant plot belonging to MSRDC was available. The bench told the forum, BMC and MSRDC to discuss the matter and inform the court after two weeks.
 
 
