BIJNOR: Barely 18 days after a tiger mauled a woman near Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Sona Nadi range, another woman from Kuankhera village was attacked in the area. She was rushed to the local health centre and was eventually referred to Meerut for advanced treatment.
 
  According to villagers, a tiger attacked  , 32, on Thursday evening near the Sona Nadi range near Uttarakhand border. She along with her husband   had gone into the forest to cut grass to feed the cattle.
  
  Kuankhera village lies on the border of   area’s Sona Nadi range and UP’s Sahuwala range.
  
  According to villagers, woman, Deepa was cutting grass when the tiger suddenly pounced on her. She shouted for help and her husband rushed to her aid. Somehow, he managed to scare away the tiger.
  
  After getting information, villagers and forest officials reached the spot. The wounded woman was rushed to Kalagarh health centre for treatment, but later, she was referred to the district hospital. Her condition is stated to be critical as she suffered head injuries. On Thursday night, considering her critical status, Deepa was referred to Meerut.
  
  Giving the details, ranger, Sona Nadi range, BS Sajwan said, “We have sounded the alert among villagers and asked them not to enter the forest area.”
  
  According to villagers, on January 15, another woman, Chhindo Devi, of the same village was killed by a tiger when she had gone to collect firewood from the forest area.
  
  The two incidents have created panic among villagers in the area adjacent to Corbett and Sahuwala range.
  
  Deepa’s husband   said, “We all are living in fear. Often, tigers attack villagers. We have approached the authorities several times but to no avail. Most of the animals come from Sona Nadi range. There is no safety management here.”
  
  Singh recalled that about three years ago, a man-eating tigress wrecked havoc in the area, killing several people. It is now feared that the tiger which is attacking villagers could be a maneater.
  
  However, foresters point out that in both incidents, the tiger attacked and also killed one woman but did not eat them.
  
  Asked more women are attacked by the big cat, DFO, Bijnor, M Semmaran said, “A tiger attacks when we are in a crouching position to collect wood or cut grass. Often woman go to forest areas for the purpose.”
  
  Semmaran added, “We have asked all villagers they should not go to the forest area alone, especially in the early morning and evening time as tigers move around in forests at that time. However, we have instructed all forest officials to keep a strict vigil on these areas and patrol the area.”
