INDORE: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh   on Wednesday asked the state government how much of the Hukumchand Mill workers’ dues were they ready to pay as  .

 Hukumchand Mill labourers are due to get Rs 197 crore and the secured creditors, Rs 153 crore.
 
 The petition, pending before the Indore bench of high court, was heard on Wednesday by Justice Prakash Shrivastav. The court in its interim order granted the state one week to indicate if they were ready to pay Rs 100 crore or more as compensation to workers against their dues.
 
 Objecting to such a short time, advocate Manoj Munshi representing the state, submitted before the court that one week was too short for the government to revert on any financial commitment.
 
 “Principal secretary of industries department cannot give any such commitments unless approved by the   or other concerned department,” Munshi added.
 
 The state government, on Wednesday, put forth its detailed proposal regarding the payment of their dues to creditors and workers of Hukumchand Mill.
 
 The government on record stated that they are not liable to pay either the dues of workers or those of secured creditors. However, being a welfare state, the government is considering paying workers through the sale of land. The payment received from the sale of land will first be used to pay off the workers and then to the secured creditors, the state proposed.
 
 Munshi in his arguments also said, “Though we are a benevolent state, it does not mean we will take responsibility of each and every private company.”
 
 Meanwhile arguments on behalf of the workers were also made before the court by senior advocate   on Wednesday, who highlighted the miseries of workers who had been waiting for justice for a long time.
 
 He also told the court that of the 6,000 workers who had been employed at  , many have committed suicide and many others have even died.
 
 Hukumchand Mill, which closed down in 1992, left as many as 6,000 workers jobless and several creditors with massive dues. The high court in 2013 had ordered the auction of 42.49 acres of prime mill land to settle dues, but no buyer came forward owing to the dispute over its ownership.
 
 IMC and state industry department both claimed ownership over the land.
 
