NEW DELHI: The parliamentary panel looking into the arms purchases during the 1999   conflict will shortly take a call on whether to give up its insistence on the   report on the matter.
 
  BJP’s Lok Sabha member Nishikant Dubey has suggested to a sub-committee attached to Parliament’s public accounts committee, the committee on noncompliance and civil matters, that it drop its longstanding demand because the CVC’s findings are already in the public domain, people aware of the matter told ET.
  
  Dubey has told the chairman of the sub-committee that the contents of both the CVC report and another report by the Comptroller and Auditor General have been made public in a book by RV Pandit, said one of the persons, who did not wish to be identified. A few other members have expressed similar views as Dubey and the sub-committee is expected to shortly take a final decision in this regard, the person said.
  
  The PAC had in 2003 expressed its inability to release its report on arms purchases during the Kargil conflict, blaming it on the defence ministry’s refusal to share CVC’s findings. It had first sought the CVC report in 2001 on all major defence deals since 1989.
  
  Following ‘Operation Vijay’, launched by the   to drive out Pakistani soldiers from Kargil during the tenure of the   government, a political standoff had erupted between the ruling   and the opposition   over the CVC report. The then chairman of PAC had demanded CVC’s findings on emergency procurement of arms and ammunition during the operation.
  
  In a report in 2003, the PAC said that while the CAG’s findings on the arms purchases were made public, secrecy was being claimed by the defence ministry under procedures and conduct of business of the House to withhold the CVC report, describing it as an “anomalous situation”.
  
  The PAC had raised eyebrows over the fact that access was allowed by the defence ministry to highly classified documents on coffin purchases to Pandit, who wrote a book on the subject. It had also questioned the role of the then defence minister   in sharing the classified information with Pandit.
  
  Since then the PAC has been seeking the CVC’s findings but to no avail. Now, the committee on noncompliance and civil matters, dealing with all cases of non-compliance prior to 2000, is looking into the matter. Significantly, this committee had earlier suggested reopening of the 1987 Bofors scandal that took place during the Rajiv Gandhi-led Congress government.
  
  “The insistence on summoning the CVC files by the then PAC(s) apparently converted into an ego clash between the defence ministry and the committee,” said a senior government official.
  
  “Even after the contents were out in the public domain, the findings were never shared with the PAC. Since the information available in the public domain does not indict any official or functionary, it would be prudent to decide the matter.” The CAG had said in its report that procedures were relaxed to quickly obtain replenishment for the Kargil conflict. However, it said, only `25 cr worth of ammunition was received on time while supplies valued at `2,150 cr were received well after the conflict. 
