NEW DELHI: An FIR has been filed against two operators of the   that supplied midday meals to Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School in Devli — where two dead rats were found in the curry. Government officials said the operators have also been blacklisted, but their services cannot be terminated at this point as close to 30,000 children will get affected.

 Officials said that two supervisors have been deployed at the kitchens of the NGO to monitor the cooking process at all times. “Two officials, including the officer on special duty to the CM, have been at the kitchens from 4am on Friday. They have been supervising the cooking to make sure this is not repeated,” said Atishi Marlena, adviser to education minister Manish Sisodia.
 
 Sisodia said that he has asked for a report on the kind of food prepared at the kitchens within a week. “I have ordered the chief secretary to ask all senior officers to inspect kitchens on my parameters and report to me in a week. All other kitchens in Delhi will be inspected regularly,” he said.
 
 The government has claimed that it has to make do with the current set of vendors because no new contractors have been hired for the last 3 years. “We wanted to rope in Akshay Patra, known for their quality of midday meals, but the proposal was shot down by former   Najeeb Jung about a year ago,” said Marlena. She added that now the government will keep a close eye on the issue because of the seriousness of the matter.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Police officers said that a case under section 273 IPC (sale of noxious food or drink) and 336 IPC (act endangering life or personal safety of others) has been registered. “We have asked the school to provide us with the details of the contractor who has been supplying the food for the children,” said DCP southeast Romil Baaniya.
 
 Probe revealed that the food was being supplied by an NGO owned by a relative of a senior leader from a political party.
 
  The directors of the NGO too would be called for questioning.
 
 
