RAJKOT: Nearly 9,000 people living in six villages in the vicinity of the solid waste dumping site of   (RMC) in Nakrawadi about 7km from the city, are facing severe health issues because of the toxic smoke from the garbage heap that now resembles a small mountain.

 Villagers said that it feels like they are living in an industrial zone as thick smoke is continuously being emitted from the garbage heap. “We are literally living in hell. There is fire on the solid waste mountain almost every day and the thick smoke enters our houses making it very difficult to breath. When the wind is strong all six villages in the vicinity of the 1-2km from the site are engulfed in toxic fumes,” said  , whose wife is sarpanch of Pipaliya village located 500m from the dumping site. 
 
 “We suspect that someone is burning the waste to reduce size of the mound. Nobody is listening to our pleas.,” said asks Roliya.
 
 Besides Pipaliya, other affected villages include Nakrawadi, Nagalpar, Rajgadh, Hadmatiya and Thamalpar, all with a combined population of over 9,000. “The smoke is affecting health of people living in nearby villages but government seems unwilling to resolve the issues of solid waste management processing,” said  , an activist, who is fighting for the villagers’ right to clean environment.
 
 He said that no garbage has been processed at Nakrawadi site since last four years as the company that was hired for the task could not begin work. In 2014, RMC had awarded the contract to generate energy out of waste to Strot Energy-Rochem Separation Systems, a joint venture, but till date there have been no signs of setting up a processing plant at the site. Jadeja has written to   (GPCB) to act fast on the issue and accused RMC of negligence as air and water pollution is making life difficult for people in the villages around the site.
 
 On an average, 550 tonne garbage is dumped at the site every day, said  , in-charge of Nakarwadi dumping site. “Since methane gas is produced after decomposition of organic waste, there is frequent fire at the site. We send 2-3 fire tenders to douse the fire as soon as we get information of fire in the garbage heap,” Dave added.
 
