GHAZIABAD: Depressed over her father’s   over her wedding and, as a result, putting his treatment for kidney dysfunction on hold, a woman killed herself in  , Loni, on Saturday afternoon.

 The woman, identified as Deepa Kumar (22), committed suicide while she was alone in her two-storey house in Loni around 12.30pm. A message on the palm of her hand read, “I am sorry, mom and dad, getting me married was forcing papa to choose between spending money on his treatment and the dowry, hence I am ending my life.”
 
 Her elder brother Ajit (28), who had come home for lunch, saw Deepa’s body hanging from the ceiling fan of the common room. 
 
 “I had returned home for lunch and saw the main door of the house open. The moment I entered the house, I saw Deepa’s body hanging from the ceiling fan. I tried to wake her up and checked her pulse but I realised she was gone,” Ajit said.
 
 Ajit said negotiations were going on about her wedding for the past six months and her prospective in-laws were demanding Rs 3 lakh cash, a TVS Apache bike, a gold chain and a ring as dowry. “My father has a severe kidney condition in which he loses protein and nutrients from his body while urinating and remains weak. He has been ill for more than a year but his condition worsened in the past six months,” Ajit said.
 
 The woman’s brother said that when the groom’s parents started demanding money and assets in dowry way beyond his budget, his father decided to stop his treatment from a private doctor in Uttam Nagar and shift to a government hospital and save money for the wedding. “Although the wedding plan was subsequently called off, my father wanted to be prepared for the next alliance with enough money,” Ajit said.
 
 “Deepa never revealed the extent of her sorrow to anyone in the family,” Ajit said. “We told the groom’s family that we won’t be able to give more than Rs 1.5 lakh in cash and a gold chain. They agreed but did not let us talk to their son, who was purportedly an engineer in Ahmedabad. At that point we became suspicious of them and called off the wedding,” he said.
 
 “But our father continued to look for a new groom for Deepa and he wanted to spend all the money he had on her wedding because he was uncertain about his treatment,” Ajit said. 
 
 No complaint has been submitted to the police by the family. 
 
