BHUBANESWAR: Gender inequality was clearly evident in the state budget 2017-18 as government reduced allocations in all major schemes for women, said an expert. 

 The women and child development department, which spends on various schemes and programmes for women, including saving girl children, supporting rape survivors, better health and nutrition and proper education of girls and empowerment of women got budget allocation, which is 2.72% of the state budget. 
 
 Even though Odisha ranked fifth in the country in registering highest number of rape incidents according to the   ( )-2015, the state government has surprisingly allocated no funds to provide financial assistance and support service to survivors of rape, the expert said. Last year, the state government allocated Rs 20 lakh to it. 
 
 "Budget is a great disappointment for women of Odisha. It showed there is no political will to empower women and the leaders only talk about it. Even though women comprise 50% of the workforce, the money spent for improving their conditions is grossly inadequate," said state convener of NGO National Alliance of Women (NAWO) Lalita Missel. 
 
 The NCRB report revealed high rate of crimes against women in the state including 6,499 cases of assault on women with intent of outraging modesty, 356 dowry death cases, 886 sexual harassment cases, 2,587 cases of kidnapping and abduction of women and 225 cases of stalking in 2015. 
 
 The state budget has made no provision for One Stop Centre - legal, medical and psychological support centre to women victims of violence and for Women Helpline. 
 
 The two central schemes got state share of Rs Rs 77.4 lakh and Rs 147.07 lakh allocations in 2016-17 respectively. Similarly there is no fund for mahila and sishu desks to provide round-the- clock service to distressed women and which work as nodal centres for anti-trafficking units. 
 
 "Despite decades of development planning, the outcome for women and girls continues to be low in almost every sphere. But surprisingly this year's budget did not reflect any intention of the state government to improve the conditions of women," said Upali Mohanty, a member of   (OBAC), a research unit. 
 
 The government has reduced funds under Biju Kanya Ratna Scheme from Rs 200 lakh last year to Rs 100 lakh this year and allocation under   from last year's Rs 50 lakh to Rs 15 lakh this year. However, the allocation for   has increased from Rs 260 lakh last year to Rs 308.96 lakh and the funds for Investigation Units for Crime Against Women under home department has increased from Rs 412.85 lakh last year to Rs 460.58 lakh this year. 
 
