Nagpur: Though providing hygienic working condition is the duty of private establishments, many of them hardly pay much attention to it. Therefore, erring establishments should provide adequate funds to build toilets, especially for women, said Madhusudan Marathe, deputy chief of industrial relations of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited, at a discussion session organized by Maharashtra Labour Welfare Board at Lalit Kala Bhavan, on Wednesday. Deputy chief of industrial relations at MSEDCL Madhusudan Marathe was chief guest at the programme.

 Being the keynote speaker, Marathe dwelt at length about the denial of pensionary benefits to   and employees of various establishments since 2005, “Since, 2005, the number of worker and employees have suffered as pension benefits are not allotted to them. The organization can also invest in old age home for workers without pension benefits. Under article 41 of Indian constitution, it is government’s duty to provide healthy environment for workers,” he said.
 
 Addressing worker’s representatives Marathe said, “Worker’s establishments must always work for their welfare, as it will boost production as well as sell in every company. Organizations like MKKM are taking great efforts for workers but number of beneficiaries are very low. The organization must invest funds for workers in which they can receive long term benefits.” 
 
 Marathe also suggested MKKM officials to take help of multinational companies who are ready to donate funds under Corporate Social Responsibility for welfare of workers.
 
 With a hope to spread awareness among worker community to get benefits from polices and schemes of Maharashtra Kamagar Kalyan Sanstha (MKKS), a discussion session of employees and worker’s representatives held at Lalit Kala Bhavan on Wednesday. The programme was organized by MKKM to promote schemes of the organization for workers community to increase number of beneficiaries.
 
 Labour Officer of MKKM Pratibha Bhakre said, “We have started numerous schemes for workers who are registered under MKKM. Main purpose of the programme is to spread awareness about schemes for workers so that most of them will be benefited. Last year under our scholarship scheme, we had distributed Rs 1.5 crore, this year, it is raised to Rs 2.5 crore. There are approximately thirty thousand registered workers in our organization in Nagpur region, we hope to give benefits maximum workers possible.”
 
 The organization has started scholar schemes for the children of workers in fields of education, sports and others. “Students applying for scholarship will be given money as per their education level,” added Bhakre.
 
 Office-bearers and worker’s representatives participated to gain information of the schemes, so that they can forward it to majority of the workers.
 
 Question and answer session also held at the programme to discuss problems of workers and labourers in the current scenario.
 
 Prakash Pathak, Balwant Bhoyar, Arun Karemore and others were also present at the programme. 
 
 
