INDORE: On Day Three of their   final against Gujarat at the Holkar Cricket stadium, Mumbai, boosted by a stroke-filled start from young opener Prithvi Shaw, looked like they would wipe out the 100-run first innings deficit. The defending champions' bid to come back into the game quickly, however, suffered a massive setback as the Gujarat seamers left batsmen frustrated by pitching the ball way outside off stump.

 The strategy, even though it was questionable, slowed down Mumbai's run rate, hit their tempo badly, and put pressure on batsmen to play rash strokes. The 'mastermind' of that gameplan was none other than former India left-arm seamer  , who's become the 'bowling captain' of Gujarat ever since he joined them a couple of years ago.
 
 'RP bhaiya,' as he's fondly called ever since he joined this team a couple of years back, took 18 wickets, including a crucial six for 90 in the first innings against Jharkhand in the semis, in five games @ 25.44. His pace may have gone down, but 'RP' still can bowl all day and trouble batsmen with his swing. More importantly, though, he played a critical role in guiding the young Gujarat seamers during the state's maiden Ranji triumph.
 
 Having last played for India five years ago, the 31-year-old, who played 14 Tests, 58 ODIs and 10 T20 internationals before he was sidelined for good, is now at peace with himself. With his wife being from Ahmedabad, the man from Rae Bareli, after playing for a decade for Uttar Pradesh, is now seeking succour in playing domestic cricket for Gujarat, where he has lessened the burden on Parthiv by handling the bowling department well.
  
 As he soaked in his own maiden Ranji triumph too with his younger colleagues in the Gujarat dressing room, 'RP' spoke to TOI in an exclusive interview... 
 
 
 
 
 At one point, it's important to play as a professional. I had played many years for my state (UP), and I played in a final for them too. Unfortunately, we didn't win on that occasion. Since I've come into this team, I shared my experiences, whatever I know, with the players. Touchwood, the boys listened to me, implemented my advice, and the results are there.
 
 
 
 
 Coaching is always an important part of the game. I've also learnt a lot of things during a match from the likes Anil bhai (Anil Kumble) and  . If you give inputs to a bowler during a game, and it clicks with him, then it really helps the bowler. For example, Chintan Gaja (who took six wickets in the final in the second innings), was training with me in the nets as he wasn't playing in the earlier games. I told him quite a few things, and he implemented it. My experience helps me to understand the match situation and then guide my bowling partners accordingly. You can't always attack, but look to contain runs too.
  
 
  
 
 Mumbai always look to contain runs, and we used that tactic against them. But it worked because our bowlers listened to me.
  
 
 
 
 He's a unique bowler, with a different action. He's already very good. I don't need to tell him much, but at times I guide him on which length to bowl.
  
 
 
 
 I absolutely love this game, that's why I'm still playing it. Didn't you see the fact that I bowled 50 overs in the final!
  
 
 
 
 Maybe because he stands behind the stumps all the time, he understands the game well, which is important. There are many times in cricket when you can't survive, you've to score runs. That's how this game works, you get runs and you win. That's what he focused on during his hundred in the second innings. He has worked hard to build this team, inducting players from the Gujarat under-19 side. We're seeing the results of this effort have come after five-six years, maybe they should've come earlier. Hopefully, we'll continue to play well.
 
 
 
 
 Both Yadav and Shami can all bowl quick, and have impressive aggression. 'Bhuvi' posses swing. It's an excellent combination.
 
 
 
 
 Both victories mean a lot. When DC won that title, it was a different challenge, because we were bottom-placed in the previous season, and we made a comeback. At Gujarat, we had won the limited overs tournament in the previous seasons. This Ranji triumph shows that we're a top team now. We're no lesser than any side in domestic cricket. No doubt, Mumbai have a very good cricketing culture. They plan well and they've a lot of talent. We've learnt a lot from Mumbai while playing against them, and will still need to learn a lot from them.
 
 
 
 
 I really don't know what happened. I'm just enjoying playing the game right now. I honestly never think about it.
 
