MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has ordered that the trial in a rape case against a Mulund doctor be transferred to another special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court judge, following allegations of bias levelled by the accused. Justice   was hearing a petition filed by Dr  , who is facing charges of rape levelled by a former employee, who was 17 years old at that time, in September 2014. 

 "Considering the totality of the circumstances emerging on record, I am of the opinion that the accused has bona fide and reasonable apprehensions of bias that the trial judge is prejudiced against him and he may not get a fair trial at the hands of the presiding officer before whom the trial against him in respect of the serious offences is pending," said Justice Badar. The high court said the question was not whether the judge is or is not actually biased against a litigant. "The question is whether the accused, on the basis of the material borne from the record, will feel that (the judge) is being biased," said the high court. The court has directed the principal judge of the city civil and sessions court to withdraw Katira's case from the present judge and transfer it to another special Pocso court.
 
 The issue dates back to July 11, 2016, when Katira had approached the hgh court to challenge the charges framed against him. The high court had asked the trial court in its interim order to adjourn the trial. Advocate   and   contended that despite the high court's interim order, they were required to file applications for adjournment before the trial court at all dates of hearing. On a few occasions costs were also imposed on the accused.
 
 "Imposition of cost for adjournment was not at all justified in the wake of the order of this court, directing the trial judge to adjourn proceedings in the Pocso case. The trial judge ought to have ascertained factually if any such order was passed and was holding the field on that day. Pendency of the said petition (before the high court) ought to have been considered by the trial judge while taking decision in the matter," said Justice Badar. 
 
 "Perusal of the order sheets maintained by the trial court regarding progress of the trial during the period from July 11, 2016, till December 19, 2016, (when the petition was dismissed) prima facie shows that the accused is justified in apprehending bias attitude of the trial judge against him," ruled the high court.
 
 
