BENGALURU:   Bangalore's preparations for the   ( ) are in disarray because of injuries to regular skipper   (right shoulder) and wicketkeeper-batsman   (left shoulder). 

 While Kohli is set to miss the first few weeks, Rahul is ruled out for the entire season. The duo's absence means the focus shifts to other heavyweights like Shane Watson, a key member of the squad. Watson admitted on Saturday that though Kohli and Rahul's absence will be felt, the team's batting depth should hold it in good stead.
 
 "Of course it's not ideal to have Rahul and Kohli out. They are two great players and it's going to be challenging for us. But one thing we have at RCB is a lot of batting depth," the Aussie all-rounder said. "We have Sarfaraz Khan,  , Kedar Jhadav and Sachin Baby. We are so very fortunate to have such quality depth. We will definitely miss those guys but with the depth we have we should do well."
 
  
 The former Australia opener, who is into his second season with RCB after he was bought for Rs 9.5 crore in 2016, believes the absence of Kohli and Rahul will present him with an opportunity to move up the batting order. "I think my role probably will change a little bit, which is great. I have got more chances of batting up the order, which is what I have done in the majority of my career. I am ready to bat anywhere but if I get a role to bat up the order, I will certainly enjoy doing that as well," said Watson, who batted at No 4 & No. 5 for the most part of last season.
 
 RCB launched the 2016 season on a poor note, losing five of their first seven games, but raised their game in the second half to make the final, in which they lost to  . 
 
 Watson said the team has learnt from the past and will look to do better this season. "Our plan will change a little bit as we will be without Kohli initially and Rahul. But to be honest we can't get much worse than what we did last year. We learnt a lot as a group from what happened in the past. Our bowlers were the ones who really turned things around then and now the bowlers are pretty similar. So I am confident," said the 35-year-old, the second highest wicket-taker for RCB last season with 20 scalps. 
 
 AB de Villiers is likely to take charge as the interim skipper but Watson said he will continue to mentor the youngsters. "I am always there to help anyone I can whenever possible. It's not going to change because I am doing it every single time. Whoever is leading, I am there to help, especially the bowlers."
 
 
 
