KOLKATA: In March 2016,   gave the Centre five months to decide whether Netaji   should be included in the list of personalities whose names can’t be exploited for the purpose of trade, business or patent without permission. Ten months down the line, the file is lying with the   (MHA) for comments. Though the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, comes under the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, a clearance is required from the MHA before names can be included.

 Schedule 9-A of the Act states: “The name of pictorial representation of Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj or the Prime Minister of India or the words “Gandhi”, “Nehru” or “Shivaji”, except the pictorial use thereof on calendars where only the names of the manufacturers and printers of the calendars are given and the calendars are not used for advertising goods.”
 
 “We have prepared the file and sent it to the MHA for its comments. We shall take steps as soon as we receive the file,” an official in New Delhi said. 
 
 Kolkata resident Suravi Bose had first moved court through counsel Phiroze Edulji and Rajdeep Biswas in July 2015, praying for restrictions against use of Netaji’s name by establishments, including educational institutions, to attract students and mint money without imparting quality education. The division bench of then Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Joymalya Bagchi had then observed that it was “within the legislative domain of the Union of India” to include it in the Act.
 
 The petitioner then moved the Supreme Court, which too observed that it could take no steps unless the Centre did the needful and included Netaji’s name in the schedule. The petitioner was granted permission to withdraw the Special Leave Petition and move appropriate fora to get Netaji’s name included in the schedule. She wrote to the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister but received no reply from the Centre. Finally, she moved the high court again in 2016. On March 10, Justice Datta set the deadline for the Centre to make its views clear on the subject.
 
 
