VELLORE: Students of the government high school in   near   on Monday staged a protest along with their parents demanding that the schoool be upgraded to a higher secondary school.

 Parents said they had been pleading the education department for 11 years to upgrade the school, but in vain. They said they had paid deposit for the upgradation 11 years ago and also approached senior officers and ministers of the education department. But, they said, their demand has not been fulfilled.
 
 On Monday, the students boycotted classes and staged a demonstration pressing their demand. Upon information, chief education officer (CEO) of Vellore, Mars, and his subordinates reached the spot and held a talk with the protesters requested them to withdraw their protest. However, villagers and students ignored the CEO’s request and continued the demonstration.
 
 They entered into an argument with the CEO for upgradating several other schools that applied for upgradation after them. The villagers also stated that a new block was constructed for Class XI and Class XII with lab facility two years ago. But the facility has remained locked.
 
 They also alleged that minister Nilofeer Kafeel took measures to upgrade two schools in Vaniyambadi municipality limit in the last year. But their school that was on the seniority list in school upgradation has been ignored all these years. They further stated that they also met minister K C Veeramani on a couple of occasions when he was the school education minister regarding the issue and he promised to look into the issue, but nothing happened.
 
 On the second consecutive day on Tuesday, students did not come to school till about 11am. “We approached parents and requested them to send their wards to school. Out of 470 students, only 150 students attended the classes after lunch. We hope the remaining students will come to school from Wednesday,” said a teacher of the school. He added that the CEO assured parents that the department would take necessary steps to upgrade the school by December.
 
