BENGALURU: Former   CEO Nitin Rakesh is replacing   as Mphasis CEO as its new owner the   Group remains bullish on the $150 billion Indian IT and BPO space. Rakesh stepped down as CEO of Nasdaq-listed Syntel abruptly in November after having served 30 months in office.

  Ganesh Ayyar, who took over as CEO in 2009, has been at the helm for eight years before his contract came up for renewal in January. His exit doesn’t come as a surprise as Blackstone’s roadmap for the Bengaluru-based IT firm requires a new leader to accelerate its presence in digital transformation deals and stay closer to customers in its mainstay US market.
 
 Blackstone has pumped in $1.4 billion into the Indian IT space so far making it the biggest foreign investor betting big bucks on the sector till date. It announced $383 million buyout of Intelenet two years back and purchased $170 million stake in IBS Software. 
 
 Till a few years back, Mphasis has gained comfort from HP portfolio business. But it has been steadily declining for the last 20 quarters in an attempt to derisk its dependence on one marquee client. But under the new terms, Blackstone has assured $990 million business from HP over the next 5 years. Mphasis has been included in HP’s preferred provider programme, which is restricted to a core group of suppliers who are considered strategic and who don’t have to qualify for every RFP bid. This gives enough headroom for Mphasis to take advantage of tech spends from Blackstone’s portfolio of companies.
 
  Blackstone India MD Amit Dixit has told TOI that Intelenet was able to secure seven customers from Blackstone’s global portfolio —companies like Travelport and Seaworld. And these were significant material contracts. In 2011, when we sold Intelenet to  , 27% of revenue was coming from Blackstone’s portfolio companies.
 
 Though Blackstone is providing cushion by securing some revenues from the HP portfolio, the company has an arduous task cut out to restart its sputtering engine that has struggled to grow over the years. Mphasis’s performance has been lackluster growing less than 6% over the last seven years that’s way short of Nasscom’s revenue guidance of 8% to 10% for the 2016-17 financial year. Its dollar revenue barely grew from $875 million in the 2009-10 financial year to $944 million in the 2015-16 fiscal.
 
 
