PANAJI: It is uncommon for   in Goa to win an assembly seat and, if elected, it is even rarer that they retain his or her seat as an   for a second term. Yet, at the 2017 polls, 57 candidates will try their luck as independents. This is not surprising, given that after the   and the  , the independents have collectively emerged as the third most appealing option for voters in Goa for the last 13 years.

 Statistics of the 2012 state polls show that with a vote share of 16.67%, the independents together polled more votes than any other party besides the BJP and the Congress. In 2007 too, though the independent contestants together polled only 9.20% of the votes, their share was bigger than the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) which is the only front that has been able to keep its neck above the water against the BJP and the Congress over the years.
 
 The last assembly polls in Goa saw as many as five independent MLAs being elected for the first time - Naresh Sawal from Bicholim, Rohan Khaunte from Porvorim, Vijai Sardesai from Fatorda, Benjamin Silva from Velim and Avertano Furtado from Navelim. It is probably looking at the record of independents’ inability to keep their seat that Sardesai has floated the   on whose ticket he is contesting the 2017 polls, while Sawal will contest for MGP.
 
 “So many probably contest polls in Goa as independents because of the wrong choices that parties make in ticket allotment. Also, contesting on a party ticket may give you a ready-made voter base, but at times it also passes on to you its ready-made misfortune, like Congress did for its candidates in 2012,” Sardesai told TOI.
 
 The number of independents contesting this year, however, is down from over 70 in 2012. This is because AAP at 39, Congress at 38, BJP at 36 and MGP at 25 have handed tickets to more candidates than ever at the present polls, probably absorbing some of the candidates, who would have otherwise contested as independents. New parties floated like  , and Sardesai’s Goa Forward may have been able to accomodate some more.
 
 
