NEW DELHI: In a major breakthrough, ten days after the deadly ambush on a   road opening party in  's   by 400-odd Maoists, security forces have arrested four of the rebels responsible for the attack in which 25 personnel were killed. 

 Top sources told TOI that the cadres were arrested on Wednesday evening from Phoolbadri area in Sukma, which is not very far from the attack site in Burkapal. 
 
 "Two of them have confessed they were part of the attack team, which was headed by commander of 1st battalion of the People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PGLA) Hidma. They are being further interrogated about the whereabouts of Hidma, their other senior leaders and further plans," said a source.
 
  Following the April 24 attack, CRPF commandos, Chhattisgarh police and other forces have been looking for Maoist cadres and leaders in the dense jungles and they are being provided technical and air assistance by the Indian Air Force and National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO). 
 
 The action comes in the wake of home minister   asking security forces to go all out against the Naxals and focus on high-value targets. Sources told TOI that the offensive by security forces after the Burkapal ambush, the second major attack since March 11, has forced Naxal leaders to seek refuge deeper inside the jungle. 
 
  Apart from the four arrests, security forces have detained three persons in   and 12 in Sukma, who are suspected to be sympathisers of Maoists. "We are looking for Jan Militia members, sympathisers and active Naxal cadres in Sukma, Dantewada, and other areas," said the official. 
 
  New CRPF DG Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar is also travelling to Raipur on Friday to attend the unified command meeting called by CM Raman Singh to further discuss the strategy to deal with the Maoists. 
 
 In another major blow to the rebels, a senior zonal commander from Jharkhand , Nakul Yadav, with a Rs 15 lakh reward on his head, and his deputy Madan Yadav have surrendered before the CRPF in Ranchi. Officials said Nakul was wanted in over 100 cases and operated in Lohardaga, Chatra, Gumla, Palamau and Ranchi districts.
 
 The CRPF has also recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunitions during the operations in Jharkhand's Lohardaga district.
 
 
