KOZHIKODE: While many World Bank-funded projects in the state including the   has a history of tardy completion, the Rs 1,564 crore Kerala   (KLGSDP) scheduled to be completed later this year has fared relatively well both in terms of achievement of project objectives and utilization of funds.

 The latest assessment report by the   says that the project remains relevant and achievable with two of the three project development objective indicators and seven out of 10 component indicators already achieving its end of project targets.
 
 The project which began in 2011 is aimed at enhancing and strengthening the institutional capacity of the local government system in Kerala to deliver services.
 
 Under the project christened Thaddesha Mithram -which covers almost all the 941 grama panchayats and 87 municipalities in the state -the local bodies have implemented around 40,000 individual projects.
 
 The works undertaken by local body institutions under the project include setting up of Buds schools for special children, markets, bus stands, dialysis units besides implementing waste management and road projects.
 
 The assessment report of the World Bank in May states that most project activities have already been completed or are scheduled to be completed in 2017. “Almost all contracts in the backward and tribal Gram Panchayats (GPs) and revenue deficit municipalities have been signed and good implementation progress is expected in the next few months,“ the   report said.
 
 For instance, while the project had set a target of having well functioning fiduciary, planning and service delivery systems in 85% grama panchayats, the WB report says that 87% of panchayats have already achieved the goal. The WB report has given the project an overall rating of `moderately satisfactory' on progress towards achievement of  's and overall implementation progress. “KLGSD could be the top performing World Bank project in the state despite having such large number of stakeholders.,“ said V P Sukumaran, deputy project director of KLGSDP.
 
