A ICC general secretary K C Venugopal was picked by   for   to strategize and motivate the party's rank and file.During the past four months,   has been to sort out misunderstandings among members. 

 In an interview, he said the Uttar Pradesh polls were a learning experience for the party. UP assembly polls: The Congress learnt some lessons from the UP polls where the BJP created sub-castes among castes. I understand Karnataka politics is caste driven, but the voting pattern in the 2018 polls will be different. It has a tradition of supporting secularism, with 2008 being the exception. The Congress now knows how to tackle such challenges. Not chieftains but servants of people: My immediate priority was to bring unity in the party and build the organization at the grassroots level from the bottom. We don't want yajamanas (chieftains) but servants of the people. I also had to bring unity among the leadership, which has been done. There were small problems, which will be there in a large, democratic party. There was misunderstanding and miscommunication, not because of the leaders, but the atmosphere was like that. 
 
 
 : As an active parliamentarian, I've seen the BJP projecting   as the biggest game-changer. Three years down the line, what game has the PM changed -petrol, diesel prices going up, shabby implementation of GST? Are these game-changers?
 
 Those who support JD(S) will help BJP: Our fight is against the BJP and JD(S) poses challenges for the Congress in some constituencies.But those who support the JD(S) will indirectly help the BJP whose agenda is to split secular votes. The Hindutva card will not suit Karnataka politics though the BJP is trying in the coastal belt. It's because majority of people in this state are secular. Enrolment of voters: The Congress is working towards becoming a cadre-based party where enrolling voters is an organizational issue. When people are ready to vote for our party, we have to ensure they're enrolled as voters. Deliberate deletion of voters is happening and I've been getting complaints of some officers playing with the voters' lists in BBMP wards. No tickets to poor performers: Tickets distribution for the assembly elections will be done in a professional manner this time. Winnability is the USP; poor performers in constituencies will not be repeated. Performance of legislators is being assessed by my four AICC secretaries.
 
