PUNE: With the Centre set to introduce   ( ) from July, Pune   ( ) will have to depend on the state’s assistance to be able to manage its coffers. 

 Several taxes are expected to be merged into the GST. The government may mull over some new taxes in an effort to reduce the civic body’s dependence on the state to generate revenue. 
 
 “With introduction of GST, the Local Body Tax (LBT) will become defunct. The PMC will lose a major revenue resource. We hope that the government will provide assistance, in the form of grants, at least for the next five years so that the civic body does not feel the pinch,” said Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of the civic body’s LBT department. 
 
 Molak added that the civic body is currently awaiting directions from the state regarding the financial assistance. PMC had received Rs1,450 crore revenue from LBT in the last fiscal and is due for substantial rise this year.
 
 The government had directed PMC to collect LBT instead of octroi in its jurisdiction from April 1, 2013, on the goods to be imported for use, sale and consumption. The octroi comprised of about 40 per cent of the civic revenue and the government’s decision pushed PMC into a huddle to manage its annual budget.
 
 Other civic bodies in the state, that is Nagpur, Thane, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Navi Mumbai municipal corporations, were given the same directives. The state government abolished LBT for traders doing business of Rs50 crore and below in 2015 but the tax continued to be applied to those with larger businesses.
 
 Interestingly, a state official said that the government might look to impose new taxes, including heavy parking fees, to help civic bodies that stand to lose revenue with the roll out of the GST. “Also, the central government has given enough indication that civic bodies will get some share of the GST,” the officer said. The state government is keen to ensure that civic bodies have their own source of income, he added. The decision on new taxes will add to the political commotion and so the government has initiated a dialogue with the Opposition on the issue.
 
 According to PMC estimates, the city needs an annual budget of Rs9,828 crore to maintain and develop infrastructure for 32 lakh citizens. It also faces other challenges like raising Rs25,000 crore to implement the development plan for the old city area.
 
 
