CHANDIGARH: The EC signalled the slog overs of the Punjab elections on Wednesday giving parties just 30 days between now and February 4 when votes will be cast. And despite being in election mode for nearly 12 months now, none of the main players can claim that they have nosed ahead to be in a position to get a majority when votes are counted on March 11. If anything, uncertainty is the central theme of the 15th election in the state since Independence.

 A special characteristic of this election is that for the first time it is a three-cornered fight, thanks to AAP's popularity here since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Of the major players, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and   have announced most of their candidates with only a handful seats left undecided. Both parties had expected a rebellion when tickets would be announced and used the extra time on their hands to quell protests and tempers. 
 
 Surprisingly, the   is yet to announce candidates on as many as 40 seats. This despite the fact that it had suffered heavily in the last election in 2012 when it had announced all its candidates after elections were declared and was left with very little time to placate rebels. The grand old party had to contend with rebels on a number of seats who heavily cut its vote share and ensured that it finished second despite being in pole position earlier.
 
 It could well be left with a similar situation this time as well as there are many contentious seats where it want to field SAD and BJP turncoats but fears traditional Congressmen will not appreciate the move.
 
 BJP, which contests on only 23 seats leaving the rest for SAD, has so far not declared a single candidate. AAP, which had taken lead by announcing 19 candidates in its first list on August 4, 2016, has named 109 contestants so far while its alliance partner Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) has named candidates for all five seats of its share.
 
 Would it be a happy b'day for Captain?
 
 On March 11, the day when assembly election results will be declared, Punjab Congress chief Captain   Singh will either have reason to hold the grandest birthday bash ever or it will be the most forgettable day of his life. As fate would have it, March 11 happens to be his 75th birthday. A grand birthday bash had been organised for Amarinder in 2012 as that was the first time in more than 150 years that a member of the Patiala royal family had crossed the age of 70. At the time, people had expected Congress to sweep the poll and the birthday party was supposed to celebrate the electoral win as well.
 
