SECUNDERABAD: Believe it or not, the  , which controls the second largest cantonment in the country, does not have a fire service department. It depends on the   for any fire mishap in the cantonment spread over 47.05 sq km.

 The need for a separate fire services department was felt when a fire broke out in the Cantonment Board office on Saturday . Luckily , there was a thin traffic when the mishap occurred and the fire brigade from   reached the spot within a few minutes. The damage would have been more had the fire brigade not reached in time.
 
 There are nearly 320 residential colonies in the Cantonment. Also there are about 10,000 commercial establishments including hotels, bars & restaurants, private hospi tals and educational institutions. Besides, a number of crucial Defence institutions and residential quarters for Army personnel are located under the SCB jurisdiction.
 
 “It is true that the SCB does not have a fire services wing. However, we insist on fire safety certificates from property owners. The certificates should be procured from the state fire services department. We also inspect the sites and ensure that all fire safety measures are in place,“ said SCB senior official (elec trical), S Raj Kumar. He said there has been no major fire mishap in the cantonment limits thus far.
 
 The SCB has received a proposal from the Telangana government on location of a fire station within Cantonment limits. The government has sought about half an acre of land for the fire station.The government's idea is to provide at least one fire station for every assembly constituency .
 
 Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna appro ached then SCB chief executive officer Sujatha Gutpa seeking allocation of land. The SCB agreed to part with the land parcel for the fire station. But the proposal is pending with the fire services department. The SCB has its own pump houses from where the fire brigades can draw water. SCB officials said they will pursue the issue with the authorities concerned to improve fire fighting facilities in Cantonment. They said the process will be completed within a month.
 
