Mysuru: One of the highlights of chief minister Siddaramaiah’s 2017-18 budget was his announcement that women could avail of loans up to Rs 2 crore at a nominal interest rate of 4%, which would be implemented through the Karnataka State Finance Corporation ( ). The announcement was greeted with much enthusiasm from many quarters. However, the delay in notifying the scheme – four months into the new financial year – has left many aspiring   in the city disappointed.

 Pointing out that it took several weeks to prepare documentation to avail of the benefits of a government scheme, mechanical engineer Vasudha Hithendra, an aspiring entrepreneur, voiced her anxiety over the delay in the scheme’s implementation. “We cannot have all the documents in advance since no one knows what we require. Delay in notifying the scheme could cause problems for entrepreneurs who want to utilise the scheme’s benefits. The officials are clueless as to when the scheme will be implemented,” said Vasudha.
 
 Computer engineer Rajatha Marate too is hoping the state government notifies the scheme soon. “I am keen to find out if my idea for a tourism-based startup is eligible for a loan under the new scheme. I need funding at this stage. I am waiting for the government to notify the scheme,” said Rajatha.
 
 Sources in the department of commerce and industries said that some women entrepreneurs raised the concern with additional chief secretary K Ratna Prabha during her recent visit to Mysuru.
 
 City-based industrialist S Sudhakar Shetty, and senior vice-president, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FKCCI), said that he had written to Siddaramaiah about the issue. “I hope the government notifies the scheme at the earliest. Early implementation will benefit more women entrepreneurs. Further delay may discourage the applicants,” he said.
 
 Rajendra Honnabhandar, assistant general manager, KSFC, Mysuru, said that there was a lot of demand for loans under the scheme. “The government may issue the order soon. Once we get the circular, we’ll start issuing applications,” said Honnabhandar.
 
 
