INDORE:   (STF) on Tuesday booked  , the main accused in  , in connection with the Golden Forest (India) Ltd land scam.

 Thakur and others, including his family members, were booked for fraudulently selling land of Golden Forests (India) Ltd to unsuspecting individuals and reaping huge benefits out of it, a   told TOI.
 
 STF has registered cases against Thakur, and his accomplices Santosh, Ladhsingh, Shankar Singh, Dr Bhaskar Prasad and Sameer Agrawal for selling around 1000 acre of Golden Forest (India) Ltd land in collusion with the farmers.
 
 Golden Forest (India) Ltd, an investment company, had bought huge chunk of land from farmers in village Panda of Mhow tehsil through funds generated from its investors. Following irregularities and allegations of cheating investors, the company land was attached on Apex court orders. 
 
 A committee under a retired judge was formed to investigate the irregularities in the change of ownership of the land. 
 
 Despite the fact that the land was attached with the bank, Mangilal and others managed to execute the sale of the land.
 
 Indore bench of high court has recently directed special task force (STF) to conduct a probe into the alleged irregularities related to land associated with Golden Forest (India) Ltd.
 
 Justice SC Sharma had ruled: “In order to protect the properties of M/s Golden Forests (India) Ltd and to find out how many properties have been transferred in different names..., the additional director general of police (STF), Indore is directed to conduct an inquiry and if necessary to register a criminal case.”
 
 Additionally, Justice Sharma also directed a copy of the report to be sent to the expert committee constituted by Supreme Court to protect properties of the Golden Forest (India) Ltd and its subsidiary companies.
 
 STF had taken custody of Thakur from Mhow jail, where he was lodged while the Yogesh Garg murder case was being heard by the court against him. Thakur was accused of getting Garg killed by his aides Suraj Thakur, Vikas Chohan and Sawan Khode when the advocate came out of his office on November 18, 2015.
 
