JAIPUR: Killer  , despite being banned, has victimised one more person in the city. A 32-year-old person had a close shave when manjha of a snapped kite slit his throat at MD Road. He is undergoing treatment at ENT ward of   (SMS) Hospital. The incident happened when he was riding bike on MD Road on Friday evening.

 The government has already imposed a ban on Chinese manjha but it is still being sold in the market. As per different directions, issued by Jaipur district collector and Jaipur police commissioner, the sale of Chinese manjha is banned in the city. 
 
 Abdul Wajid riding his bike and carrying a pillion passenger, who was his friend, suddenly felt a sharp manjha of a snapped kite slit his throat. He showed presence of mind and stopped his bike carefully. But, before he could understand the situation, blood started oozing out of his throat. Without wasting any time, his friend hired an auto rickshaw and rushed him to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital. 
 
 It is second such case in past seven days. Earlier, 26-year-old Brijesh, a resident of Brahmpuri, was rushed to SMS Hospital's institute of traumatology and orthopaedics (ITO) with injury on his throat due to manjha.
 
 Now, Wajid is second victim of Chinese manjha. “The incident happened at around 4.45pm on Friday when he was going towards Moti Doongri circle,” Wajid’s brother, Sajid told ToI. 
 
 He said, “It was a Chinese manjha which caused injury to my brother. It is because of that he is in the hospital. The cut is almost 1/4th of an inch deep and three inch long on his neck.”
 
 Wajid, who is a resident of   area, works as a gems and jewellery artist. 
 
 He said that the doctors immediately provided him treatment to stop bleeding. Now, he is undergoing treatment in ENT ward. 
 
 SMS hospital’s associate professor (ENT) Dr Pawan Singhal said, “Such incidents become common in January, when kite flying fervour is at its peak in the city. It is better to take precaution. Especially bikers should take proper protection like wearing helmets, covering neck with something which cannot be cut by manjha. Also, Chinese manjha is banned, people should also not use Chinese manjha which is dangerous for others.”
 
 
