30-year-old meets  , suggests   to be outsourced to   to ensure  ,   and decline in road crimes; his plan may be implemented in  

 A social experiment by a 30-year-old misal pav eatery owner has brought to the fore serious traffic policing lapses that keeps a burgeoning city like Pune and the twin towns of Pimpri and Chinchwad ever-burdened with bottlenecks and cavalier violations. These loopholes were pinpointed to Nitin Gadkari, Union minister of road transport and highways, along with suggestions that may soon be implemented as part of the smart city project.
 
 Chinmay Kavi — a resident of Chinchwad Gaon who owns Balaji Misal Snacks near Morya Gosavi Ganpati Mandir — deliberately violated the traffic signal at Pimpri Chowk recently by stopping his motorcycle halfway into the zebra crossing, only to see whether the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras were working.
 
 He did get a letter from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) mentioning the fine amount, with a picture of the traffic rule violation. But, even though he did not pay the penalty for days, nobody approached him to collect the fine. That’s when he figured that there was nobody skilled to man the CCTV footage.
 
 “People driving on the wrong side, vehicles being parked on the roadside and disobeying traffic rules are the major reasons why the city is riddled with traffic snarls most of the time. It is very difficult to keep a tab on all these manually, which makes fines based on CCTV footage the best solution. But who will monitor these cameras? Outsourcing of CCTV monitoring by sharing a percentage of the fine will solve the issue and help increase employment as well,” Kavi told Pune Mirror.
 
 He met Gadkari in Pune on Monday, at a Deccan Education Society programme to felicitate Jankalyan Samiti, of which Kavi is a member. He placed his suggestions before the minister in a detailed letter. A spokesperson from Gadkari’s office confirmed that they had called Kavi for his email ID as he had given the points on paper. They are hopeful that Kavi’s plan of action to ease traffic woes will be added to the measures to be implemented as part of the smart city project.
 
 “It is indeed a Herculean task, with hardly 1,400-odd traffic personnel made to man more than 30 lakh vehicles. High-quality infrastructure has recently been developed by the traffic police department, with more than a thousand CCTV cameras installed across the city, equipped with smart applications like pan, tilt and zoom. These cameras provide live feed to the main police control room. But, all this needs more manpower to achieve a positive result. If youths with computer knowledge can be appointed 24x7 to man the traffic control room, then it would be a major support system for the traffic police,” Kavi added.
 
 According to his plan, the team would monitor the CCTV feed, identify discipline lapses, take clips of that and send them to the core team of the RTO, which would in turn link the clips to the vehicle that violated the rule. This linking system should be capable of sending SMSes, emails and snail mail to the vehicle owner immediately. Vehicle insurance gets renewed every year only after a no-dues certificate from the RTO. Insurance companies have to pay heavy penalties if they renew the insurance without the mandatory certificate. One can pay the penalty and get the no-dues certificate online itself.
 
 Explaining the advantages of this system, Kavi stressed that this would ensure that there is no partiality while slapping the fines. Besides, as people will eventually find out that there is someone actually monitoring the CCTVs, the number of traffic violations would dwindle. Also, a strict collection of penalties would make more and more people follow the rules. The system would offer some much-needed employment and the monitoring would help reduce crime as well, he maintained.
 
 Kavi did his schooling from Chapekar High School and his Masters in commerce from Symbiosis College of Arts and Commerce. He had even suggested that traffic fines should have the option of payment by swiping cards, especially after demonetisation. “Right after the notes ban, I was travelling on my bike through Lakdi Pul and didn’t know that two-wheelers were not allowed on this bridge. The traffic police gave me a challan, but I didn’t have change at that time. I waited for a long time there. Later, the traffic cops asked me to leave as there was no solution. I immediately sent a tweet to CM Devendra Fadnavis, requesting him to ensure that commuters can pay their penalties by swiping cards. And, during a subsequent visit to Pune, Fadnavis fulfilled my wish. There are now 2,100 point of service (POS) offices in Pune for credit card billing,” beamed the restaurateur.
 
 Only last month, Kavi was travelling with his family by train, when he observed that there were discrepancies in the food rate card and the charges taken by the caterer. The vegetarian meal was just Rs 60 and the non-vegetarian one was Rs 70. But rail commuters had to pay almost double the amount during their journey as the money was collected after the food was served. So, Kavi sent a tweet to Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu, asking him to introduce the facility of food coupons at the tickets counters itself. After the current Budget, all railway passengers can avail of food coupons now from the ticket counters.
 
 If Kavi’s suggestions on traffic monitoring are indeed applied, city roads would be able to breathe easy and commuters would enjoy a smoother ride.
 
