Gurgaon: As many as 60 workers, sweepers, maids, drivers, conductors and plumbers of   in   have been on strike since February 9, demanding implementation of the pay scale that adheres to CBSE guidelines.

 Protesting workers told TOI that though they have been working as permanent employees of the school for around 12 years, their salaries have not been hiked so far. 
 
 “No one is paying heed to our demands,” Ashok Kumar, a driver of the school, said. “We have been demanding pay hike for many years. In 2015, we had approached CBSE, which in turn issued a notice in favour of the school. In fact, the school is not following the CBSE guidelines.”
 
 Sundar Sharma, another driver, alleged that when they took up the issue with school officials, they feigned helplessness. “Officials told us that that’s all we are going to get. They also claimed that they don’t have the powers to increase our salary, and if we don’t want to work, we must go and find a job elsewhere.”
 
 Sharma said two of the school’s drivers were already drawing salaries as per the CBSE pay scale. 
 
 “In this school, a driver’s salary starts from Rs 9,800. No school pays salary as less as this,” one of the drivers said on condition of anonymity. “For instance, Amity School’s branch at Pushp Vihar in Delhi gives Rs 18, 000 as the minimum salary. We are forced to strike,” he said.
 
 Baghat Singh, a sweeper who joined the school in 2006, said the school gave them only false assurances. “They even threatened us, and curtailed our off days. We are called to join the duty even on our off days, and didn’t pay for it. If we work for extra hours, we should be paid Rs 10 per hour, which is very less. At Amity School in Sector 43, non-teaching staff get Rs 100 per hour as overtime pay?”
 
 Amity International School principal Aarti Chopra told TOI that the case was pending in the labour court. “We are waiting for the judgment. Whatever the court decides, we will abide by it,” Chopra said. “Their demands are unnecessary. It is nowhere written it is compulsory. The CBSE guidelines are meant for the teaching staff.”
 
 Asked if other Amity schools pay higher salaries to non-teaching staff, Chopra said these allegations were false. “We also give non-teaching staff hike in salaries every year. The allegation that their pay scale remains the same for around 12 years is not true.”
 
 
