RANCHI: Around 200   shared their tales during a day-long programme-I am Empowered - held at Hehal on Sunday to mark the occasion of   The girls are now working in hotels, shopping malls, state museum, district collectorates, CIP at Kanke not only in Ranchi but also in districts like Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Palamau, Giridih and Rajgir. 

 B B Pradhan, deputy general (Home Guard and Fire Services) who was the chief guest on the occasion said, "The state government and local NGOs are working to stop these trafficking menace across the state. We need to be more sensitive towards this issue as due to lack of employment and development in villages, our girls are compelled to leave the hinterland."
 
 He applauded efforts of the state government and Atsec, a local NGO from the state, to make girls financially independent though skill development programmes. "It is a big challenge and in order to weed out this problem, education is equally important and only then our daughters will be safe," he added.
 
 Fatima and Sunita who were rescued in 2011 now work as security guards in CIP Kanke and earn Rs 15,000 per month. Sunita said, "We were school drop-outs. A well known relative in Mahutad block of Latehar district took us to Delhi and promised us jobs after our parents were paid Rs 5,000. But after working for two years our employer denied us monthly salary and also started torturing us physically and mentally. In 2011 we were rescued by Atsec and officials of the labour department from Nirmal Chaya Delhi."
 
 In a city-based-hotel, Anita Ekka works as a housekeeper and earns Rs 12,000 a month. A resident of Gumla, she was trafficked in 2012. "I was taken to Delhi by my brother-in-law. He sold me to middle men but somehow with the help of the local police I went to Nirmal Chaya, Delhi. I came back in 2013 and after that I enrolled in Kasturba Gandhi residential school in Lapung where I also took a course in house keeping in 2016," she said. Ekka added, "Though I have lost my childhood I am now ready to face this world ahead." 
 
 Sanjay Mishra, Atsec co-ordinator Jharkhand Chapter, said they will start training around 350 such survivors as security guards, housekeeping staff and at the motor driving school from August 1. Mishra added, "These girls will combat trafficking in the future."
 
 Around 767 survivors of trafficking have turned their lives around and are economically empowered. 
 
 
